This etext was prepared with the use of Calera WordScan Plus . 
The coat was shaped delicately it outlined the wearer , and , fitting him as women's clothes fit women , suggested an effeminacy not an attribute of the tall Corliss . 
Mr. Corliss , treading for the first time in seventeen years the pavements of this namesake of his grandfather , mildly repaid its interest in himself . 
The street , once the most peaceful in the world , he thought , had changed . 
Architectural transformations , as vital , staggered the returned native . 
A hundred yards farther on , he paused before a house more familiar to him than any other , and gave it a moment's whimsical attention , without emotion . 
It was a shabby old brick structure , and it stood among the gayest , the most flamboyant dwellings of all Corliss Street like a bewildered tramp surrounded by carnival maskers . 
Mr. Corliss concluded his momentary pause by walking up the broken cement path , which was hard beset by plantain weed and the long grass of the ill kept lawn . 
At sight of her he instantly restored a thin gold card case to the pocket whence he was in the act of removing it . 
She was very white and black , this lady . 
They were not phlegmatic a continuing spark glowed far within them , not ardently , but steadily and inscrutably , like the fixed stars in winter . 
Mr. Valentine Corliss , of Paris and Naples , removed his white ribboned straw hat and bowed as no one had ever bowed in that doorway . 
It was an elaborate little formality of a kind fancifully called foreign , and evidently habitual to the performer . 
It produced no outward effect upon the recipient . 
Such self control is unusual . 
Is Mr. Madison at home ? My name is Valentine Corliss . 
She indicated an open doorway upon her right . 
Will you wait in there ? Thank you , said Mr. Corliss , passing within . 
I shall be He left the sentence unfinished , for he was already alone , and at liberty to reflect upon the extraordinary coolness of this cool young woman . 
this was the place where his aunt received callers who , she justifiably hoped , would not linger . 
Altogether , it struck him that it might be a good test room for an alienist no incipient lunacy would remain incipient here . 
A fresh and lovely pink rose , just opening full from the bud , lay in the bottom of the basket . 
There was a rustling somewhere in the house and a murmur , above which a boy's voice became audible in emphatic but undistinguishable complaint . 
A whispering followed , and a woman exclaimed protestingly , Cora ! And then a startlingly pretty girl came carelessly into the room through the open door . 
There was a softness about her something of velvet , nothing of mush . 
She diffused with her entrance a radiance of gayety and of gentleness sunlight ran with her . 
She seemed the incarnation of a caressing smile . 
Mr. Valentine Corliss spared the fraction of a second for another glance at the rose in the waste basket . 
The girl saw him before she reached the table , gave a little gasp of surprise , and halted with one hand carried prettily to her breast . 
Oh ! she said impulsively I BEG your pardon . 
The intelligent young man immediately realized that no one who heard it could ever forget it . 
I see , she faltered , turning to leave the room it isn't here the book . 
There's something else of yours here , said Corliss . 
Is there ? She paused , hesitating at the door , looking at him over her shoulder uncertainly . 
He lifted the rose from the waste basket and repeated the bow he had made at the front door . 
This time it was not altogether wasted . 
How curious ! she said slowly . 
How curious it happened to be THERE ! She stepped to take it from him , her eyes upon his in charming astonishment . 
Happily , anticlimax was spared them by the arrival of the person for whom the visitor had asked at the door , and the young man retained the rose in his hand . 
I expected you might be turning up , after your letter , he said , shaking hands . 
Well , well , well ! I remember you as a boy . 
Wouldn't have known you , of course but I expect you'll find the town about as much changed as you are . 
With a father's blindness to all that is really vital , he concluded his greeting inconsequently Oh , this is my little girl Cora . 
Run along , little girl , said the fat father . 
His little girl's radiant glance at the alert visitor imparted her thorough comprehension of all the old man's absurdities , which had reached their climax in her dismissal . 
Her parting look , falling from Corliss's face to the waste basket at his feet , just touched the rose in his hand as she passed through the door . 
Her eyes , if tired , were tolerant and fond and her voice held its youth and something of the music of Cora's . 
What is he like ? She addressed the daughter by the window . 
Why don't you ask Coralie ? suggested the sprawling artist , relaxing his hideous labour . 
He pronounced his sister's name with intense bitterness . 
I ask Laura because it was Laura who went to the door , Mrs. Madison answered . 
I do not ask Cora because Cora hasn't seen him . 
Do I satisfy you , Hedrick ? Cora hasn't seen him ! the boy hooted mockingly . 
He WILL hang around the neighbours' stables . 
I think you ought to do something about it , mother . 
THEM roses ! repeated Hedrick fiercely . 
One o' them roses Dick Lindley sent her this morning . 
Laid it in the waste basket and sneaked it into the reception room for an excuse to go galloping in and Galloping' ? said Mrs. Madison gravely . 
He rose , and performed something like a toe dance , a supposed imitation of his sister's mincing approach to the visitor . 
Remember me by that rose , 'cause it's just like me . 
Hedrick stared incredulously , baffled but men must expect these things , and this was no doubt a helpful item in his education . 
I wonder if he wants to sell the house , said Mrs. Madison . 
Anything that would make father get out of it ! Cora exclaimed . 
I hope Mr. Corliss will burn it if he doesn't sell it . 
He might want to live here himself . 
He ! Cora emitted a derisive outcry . 
Her mother gave her a quick , odd look , in which there was a real alarm . 
What is he like , Cora ? Awfully foreign and distinguished ! This brought Hedrick to confront her with a leap as of some wild animal under a lash . 
He landed close to her his face awful . 
Princely , I should call him , said Cora , her enthusiasm undaunted . 
Distinctly princely ! Princely , moaned Hedrick . 
Pe rin sley ! Hedrick ! Mrs. Madison reproved him automatically . 
In what way is he foreign , Cora ? Oh , every way . 
Cora let her glance rest dreamily upon the goaded boy . 
He has a splendid head set upon a magnificent torso TORSO ! Hedrick whispered hoarsely . 
Tall , a glorious figure like a young guardsman's . 
Madness was gathering in her brother's eyes and observing it with quiet pleasure , she added One sees immediately he has the grand manner , the bel air . 
BEL AIR' ! he screamed , and began to jump up and down , tossing his arms frantically , and gasping with emotion . 
Luv a ly , LUV a ly slush ! He is thirty , I should say , continued Cora , thoughtfully . 
A strong , keen face , rather tanned . 
He's between fair and dark Hedrick raised himself to the attitude of the Dying Gaul . 
And with hair slightly silvered at the temples ! AIN'T his hair slightly silvered at the temples ? he cried imploringly . 
He has rather wonderful eyes , said Cora . 
They seem to look right through you . 
Slush , slush , luv a ly slush , came in muffled tones from the floor . 
And he wears his clothes so well so differently ! You feel at once that he's not a person , but a personage . 
Slush in the morning , slush at night , If I don't get my slush I'm bound to get tight ! Hedrick ! said his mother . 
Altogether I should say that Mr. Valentine Corliss looks as if he lived up to his name , Cora went on tranquilly . 
Valentine Corliss of Corliss Street I think I rather like the sound of that name . 
She let her beautiful voice linger upon it , caressingly . 
Hedrick opened his eyes , allowed his countenance to resume its ordinary proportions , and spoke another name slowly and with honeyed thoughtfulness Ray Vilas . 
This was the shot that told . 
Cora sprang down from the table with an exclamation . 
Am I to bear this kind of thing all my life ? Aren't you EVER going to punish his insolence ? Hedrick , Hedrick ! said Mrs. Madison sadly . 
Cora turned to the girl by the window with a pathetic gesture . 
Laura she said , and hesitated . 
Laura Madison looked up into her sister's troubled eyes . 
I feel so morbid , said Cora , flushing a little and glancing away . 
The silent Laura set aside her work , rose and went out of the room . 
Her cheeks , too , had reddened faintly , a circumstance sharply noted by the terrible boy . 
He sat where he was , asprawl , propped by his arms behind him , watching with acute concentration the injured departure of Cora , following her sister . 
At the door , Cora , without pausing , threw him a look over her shoulder a full eyed shot of frankest hatred . 
A few moments later , magnificent chords sounded through the house . 
The piano was old , but tuned to the middle of the note , and the keys were swept by a master hand . 
The wires were not hammered they were touched knowingly as by the player's own fingers , and so they sang and from out among the chords there stole an errant melody . 
This was not piano playing and not a pianist's triumphant nimbleness it was music . 
Art is the language of a heart that knows how to speak , and a heart that knew how was speaking here . 
What it told was something immeasurably wistful , something that might have welled up in the breast of a young girl standing at twilight in an April orchard . 
It was the inexpressible made into sound , an improvisation by a master player . 
You hear what she's up to ? said Hedrick , turning his head at last . 
But his mother had departed . 
He again extended himself flat upon the floor , face downward , this time as a necessary preliminary to rising after a manner of his own invention . 
Mysteriously he became higher in the middle , his body slowly forming first a round and then a pointed arch , with forehead , knees , and elbows touching the floor . 
He challenged her with a damnatory gesture in the direction of the music . 
Laura's playing always soothes her when she feels out of sorts and you weren't very considerate of her , Hedrick . 
Mentioning Ray Vilas , you mean ? he demanded . 
Look at her ! YOU know why she's got Laura at the piano now . 
It's it's because you worried her , his mother faltered evasively . 
Besides , it is very hot , and Cora isn't as strong as she looks . 
She said she felt morbid and Morbid ? Blah ! interrupted the direct boy . 
She's started after this Corliss man just like she did for Vilas . 
If I was Dick Lindley I wouldn't stand for Cora's Hedrick ! His mother checked his outburst pleadingly . 
Cora has so much harder time than the other girls they're all so much better off . 
They seem to get everything they want , just by asking nice clothes and jewellery and automobiles . 
That seems to make a great difference nowadays they all seem to have automobiles . 
We're so dreadfully poor , and Cora has to struggle so for what good times she Her ? the boy jibed bitterly . 
I don't see her doing any particular struggling . 
He waved his hand in a wide gesture . 
Almost every one of the other girls in her set is at the seashore or somewhere having a gay summer . 
You don't realize , but it's mortifying to have to be the only one to stay at home , with everybody knowing it's because your father can't afford to send her . 
Gilt chairs ! All show off ! That's all she ever thinks about . 
It's all there is to Cora , just show off , so she'll get a string o' fellows chasin' after her . 
She's started for this Corliss just exactly the way she did for Ray Vilas ! Hedrick ! Just look at her ! he cried vehemently . 
Don't you know she's tryin' to make this Corliss think it's HER playin' the piano right now ? Oh , no Didn't she do that with Ray Vilas ? he demanded quickly . 
Wasn't that exactly what she did the first time he ever came here got Laura to play and made him think it was HER ? Didn't she ? Oh just in fun . 
Mrs. Madison's tone lacked conviction she turned , a little confusedly , from the glaring boy and fumbled among the silver on the kitchen table . 
Besides she told him afterward that it was Laura . 
He walked in on her one day when she was battin' away at the piano herself with her back to the door . 
Then she pretended it had been a joke , and he was so far gone by that time he didn't care . 
He's crazy , anyway , added the youth , casually . 
Who is this Corliss ? He owns this house . 
His family were early settlers and used to be very prominent , but they're all dead except this one . 
His mother was a widow she went abroad to live and took him with her when he was about your age , and I don't think he's ever been back since . 
Did he use to live in this house ? No an aunt of his did . 
She left it to him when she died , two years ago . 
Your father was agent for her . 
You think this Corliss wants to sell it ? It's been for sale all the time he's owned it . 
That's why we moved here it made the rent low . 
Is he rich ? They used to have money , but maybe it's all spent . 
It seemed to me he might want to raise money on the house , because I don't see any other reason that could bring him back here . 
He's already mortgaged it pretty heavily , your father told me . 
I don't Mrs. Madison paused abruptly , her eyes widening at a dismaying thought . 
Oh , I do hope your father will know better than to ask him to stay to dinner ! Hedrick's expression became cryptic . 
Father won't ask him , he said . 
But I'll bet you a thousand dollars he stays ! The mother followed her son's thought and did not seek to elicit verbal explanation of the certainty which justified so large a venture . 
Oh , I hope not , she said . 
Sarah's threatening to leave , anyway and she gets so cross if there's extra cooking on wash days . 
And then she'll have YOU go out and kid him along while HEDRICK ! Yes , you will ! while she gets herself all dressed and powdered up again . 
You wait and see ! The gloomy realism of this prophecy was not without effect upon the seer's mother . 
Oh , no ! she exclaimed , protestingly . 
We really can't manage it . 
I'm sure Cora won't want to ask him You'll see ! No I'm sure she wouldn't think of it , but if she does I'll tell her we can't . 
We really can't , to day . 
Her son looked pityingly upon her . 
She ought to be MY daughter , he said , the sinister implication all too plain just about five minutes ! With that , he effectively closed the interview and left her . 
He walked through the hall on tiptoe , taking care to step upon the much stained and worn strip of Turkish carpet , and not upon the more resonant wooden floor . 
The music had ceased long since . 
Hedrick flattened himself in a corner just inside the door . 
Your mother is immensely hospitable to wish you to ask me , and I'll be only too glad to stay . 
It's purely with the mood , you see . 
I can't make myself do things . 
No I fancy I shall not play again today . 
There was a moment's silence . 
Shan't I fasten that in your buttonhole for you , said Cora . 
of Cora's delicate hands uplifted to the gentleman's lapel and Cora's eyes for a moment likewise uplifted . 
Yes , one has moods , she said , dreamily . 
I think you are too , Mr. Corliss . 
Aren't you ? A horrible grin might have been seen to disfigure the shadow in the corner just within the doorway . 
The inimical lad alone was inspired for the ungrateful role of duenna . 
tauntingly close to a delicate foot which would , God wot ! willingly have launched him into the darkness beyond . 
It was his dreadful pleasure to understand wholly the itching of that shapely silk and satin foot . 
She wore an evening gown that revealed a vague lilac through white , and shimmered upon her like a vapour . 
She was very quiet and there was a wan sweetness about her , an exhalation of wistfulness . 
Cora , in the evening , was more like a rose than ever . 
She was fragrant in the dusk . 
The spell she cast was an Undine's it was not to be thought so exquisite a thing as she could last . 
But after a time a strolling trio of negroes came singing along the sidewalk . 
In the evening , by the moonlight , you could hear those banjos ringing In the evening , by the moonlight , you could hear those darkies singing . 
How the ole folks would injoy it they would sit all night an' lis sun , As we sang I I N the evening BY Y Y the moonlight . 
Ah , THAT takes me back ! exclaimed Corliss . 
That's as it used to be . 
I might be a boy again . 
And I suppose this old house has many memories for you ? said Cora , softly . 
My , old maid aunt didn't like me overmuch , I believe and I wasn't here often . 
My mother and I lived far down the street . 
Vilas ? said the visitor politely , with a casual recollection that the name had been once or twice emphasized by the youth at dinner . 
I don't remember Vilas among the old names here . 
It wasn't , I guess , said Hedrick . 
Ray Vilas has only been here about two years . 
A great friend of yours , I suppose . 
He ain't a boy , said Hedrick , and returned to silence without further explanation . 
How cool and kind the stars are to night , said Cora , very gently . 
I love things that are cool and kind , she said . 
I love things that are cool and strong . 
She moved her arm caressingly upon the railing . 
I love its cool , smooth touch . 
Any strong life must have iron in it . 
I like iron in men . 
She leaned a very little closer to him . 
Have you iron in you , Mr. Corliss ? she asked . 
At these words the frayed edge of Hedrick's broad white collar was lifted perceptibly from his coat , as if by a shudder passing over the back and shoulders beneath . 
If I have not , answered Corliss in a low voice , I will have now ! Tell me about yourself , she said . 
Dear lady , he began and it was an effective beginning , for a sigh of pleasure parted her lips as he spoke there is nothing interesting to tell . 
I have spent a very commonplace life . 
You shouldn't call any life commonplace that has escaped THIS ! The lovely voice was all the richer for the pain that shook it now . 
This monotony , this unending desert of ashes , this death in life ! This town , you mean ? This prison , I mean ! Everything . 
Tell me what lies outside of it . 
What makes you think I can ? I don't need to answer that . 
Valentine Corliss drew in his breath with a sound murmurous of delight , and for a time they did not speak . 
Yes , he said , finally , I think I do . 
There are meetings in the desert , he went on , slowly . 
A lonely traveller finds another at a spring , sometimes . 
Cora breathed rapidly in the silence that followed she had every appearance of a woman deeply and mysteriously stirred . 
After a time she leaned back in her chair again , and began to fan herself slowly . 
You have lived in the Orient , haven't you , Mr. Corliss ? she said in an ordinary tone . 
I've been East once or twice . 
I spend a greater part of the year at Posilipo . 
Where is that ? On the fringe of Naples . 
Do you live in a hotel ? No. A slight surprise sounded in his voice . 
I have a villa there . 
Do you know what that seems to me ? Cora asked gravely , after a pause then answered herself , after another Like magic . 
Like a strange , beautiful dream . 
Yes , it is beautiful , he said . 
Then tell me What do you do there ? I spend a lot of time on the water in a boat . 
Sailing ? On sapphires and emeralds and turquoises and rubies , melted and blown into waves . 
And you go yachting over that glory ? Fishing with my crew and loafing . 
But your boat is really a yacht , isn't it ? Oh , it might be called anything , he laughed . 
And your sailors are Italian fishermen ? Hedrick slew a mosquito upon his temple , smiting himself hard . 
No , they're Chinese ! he muttered hoarsely . 
They're Neapolitans , said Corliss . 
Do they wear red sashes and earrings ? asked Cora . 
One of them wears earrings and a derby hat ! Ah ! she protested , turning to him again . 
She leaned closer to him . 
which implied that all the time they were really talking of things other than those spoken . 
Yet here this secret subject seemed to come near the surface . 
She let him hear a genuine little snap of her teeth . 
I THOUGHT you were like that ! He laughed . 
Ah , but you were sure to see it ! You could 'a' seen a Neapolitan woman yesterday , Cora , said Hedrick , obligingly , if you'd looked out the front window . 
She was working a hurdy gurdy up and down this neighbourhood all afternoon . 
He turned genially to face his sister , and added Ray Vilas used to say there were lots of pretty girls in Lexington . 
Cora sprang to her feet . 
You're not smoking , she said to Corliss hurriedly , as upon a sudden discovery . 
Let me get you some matches . 
She had entered the house before he could protest , and Hedrick , looking down the hall , was acutely aware that she dived desperately into the library . 
So thoughtless of me , she said cheerfully , resuming her seat . 
She dropped the matches into Mr. Corliss's hand with a fleeting touch of her finger tips upon his palm . 
Of course you wanted to smoke . 
I can't think why I didn't realize it before . 
I must have A voice called from within , commanding in no , uncertain tones . 
Call me ? he inquired with the air of cheerful readiness to proceed upon any errand , no matter how difficult . 
Mr. Madison countered diplomacy with gloom . 
I don't know what to do with you . 
Why can't you let your sister alone ? Has Laura been complaining of me ? Oh , Hedrick ! said Mrs. Madison . 
Hedrick himself felt the justice of her reproof his reference to Laura was poor work , he knew . 
He hung his head and began to scrape the carpet with the side of his shoe . 
Well , what'd Cora say I been doing to her ? You know perfectly well what you've been doing , said Mr. Madison sharply . 
Nothing at all just sitting on the steps . 
What'd she SAY ? His father evidently considered it wiser not to repeat the text of accusation . 
You know what you did , he said heavily . 
Oho ! Hedrick's eyes became severe , and his sire's evasively shifted from them . 
You keep away from the porch , said the , father , uneasily . 
You mean what I said about Ray Vilas ? asked the boy . 
Both parents looked uncomfortable , and Mr. Madison , turning a leaf in his book , gave a mediocre imitation of an austere person resuming his reading after an impertinent interruption . 
That's what you mean , said the boy accusingly . 
Ray Vilas ! Just you keep away from that porch . 
Because I happened to mention Ray Vilas ? demanded Hedrick . 
You let your sister alone . 
I got a right to know what she said , haven't I ? There was no response , which appeared to satisfy Hedrick perfectly . 
Neither parent met his glance the mother troubled and the father dogged , while the boy rejoiced sternly in some occult triumph . 
Hedrick , after a reconnaissance in the hall , obeyed at leisure . 
Gris ! he muttered hoarsely , and loosened the long rapier in the shabby sheath at his side . 
He went up , crouching , ready for anything , without a footfall , not even causing a hideous creak and gained the top in safety . 
The wary Huguenot remained in the shadow and observed her . 
Laura was writing in an old ledger she had found in the attic , blank and unused . 
She had rebound it herself in heavy gray leather and fitted it with a tiny padlock and key . 
She wore the key under her dress upon a very thin silver chain round her neck . 
Upon the first page of the book was written a date , now more than a year past , the month was June and beneath it Love came to me to day . 
Nothing more was written upon that page . 
He gave it up at last , and lounged forward blinking , with the air of finding it sweet to do nothing . 
Whatch' writin' ? he asked in simple carelessness . 
At the first sound of his movement she closed the book in a flash then , with a startled , protective gesture , extended her arms over it , covering it . 
What is it , Hedrick ? she asked , breathlessly . 
What's the padlock for ? Nothing , she panted . 
What is it you want ? You writin' poetry ? Laura's eyes dilated she looked dangerous . 
Oh , I don't care about your old book , said Hedrick , with an amused nonchalance Talleyrand might have admired . 
There's callers , and you have to come down . 
Who sent you ? A man I've often noticed around the house , he replied blightingly . 
You may have seen him I think his name's Madison . 
His wife and he both sent for you . 
One of Laura's hands instinctively began to arrange her hair , but the other remained upon the book . 
Who is it calling ? Richard Lindley and that Wade Trumble . 
Laura rose , standing between her brother and the table . 
Tell mother I will come down . 
Hedrick moved a little nearer , whereupon , observing his eye , she put her right hand behind her upon the book . 
She was not deceived , and boys are not only superb strategic actors sometimes , but calamitously quick . 
Appearing to be unaware of her careful defence , he leaned against the wall and crossed his feet in an original and interesting manner . 
Of course YOU understand , he said cosily . 
It'd been funny if Dick hadn't noticed anybody was there and kissed her . 
What on earth does he want to stay engaged to her for , anyway ? You don't know that she is engaged to Mr. Lindley , Hedrick . 
Get out ! he hooted . 
Vive lee roy ! Hedrick , won't you please run along ? I want to change my dress . 
What for ? There was company for dinner and you didn't change then . 
Laura's flushed cheeks flushed deeper , and in her confusion she answered too quickly . 
I only have one evening gown . 
I of course I can't wear it every night . 
Well , then , he returned triumphantly , what do you want to put it on now for ? PLEASE run along , Hedrick , she pleaded . 
You didn't for this Corliss , he persisted sharply . 
Go and tell mother I'm coming , she said . 
He began to whistle Beulah Land as he went , but , with the swift closing of the door behind him , abandoned that pathetically optimistic hymn prematurely , after the third bar . 
Nevertheless , the most painstaking search of her room , a search as systematic as it was feverish , failed to reveal where she had hidden the book . 
He returned wearily to the porch . 
from her lovely head to the rose in Mr. Corliss's white coat . 
Hedrick , resuming a position upon the top step between the two groups , found the conversation of the larger annoying because it prevented him from hearing that of the smaller . 
It was carried on for the greater part by his mother and Mr. Trumble Laura sat silent between these two and Lindley's mood was obviously contemplative . 
Mr. Wade Trumble , twenty six , small , earnest , and already beginning to lose his hair , was talkative enough . 
He was one of those people who are so continuously aggressive that they are negligible . 
What's the matter here ? Nobody pays any attention to me . 
Certainly this was the impression confirmed in the mind of the shrewdest and most experienced observer on that veranda . 
The accomplished Valentine Corliss was quite able to share Cora's detachment satisfactorily , and be very actively aware of other things at the same time . 
For instance Richard Lindley's preoccupation had neither escaped him nor remained unconnected in his mind with that gentleman's somewhat attentive notice of the present position of a certain rose . 
I don't know about that , now , he said with severe emphasis . 
I don't know about that at all . 
I can't say I agree with you . 
In fact , I do not agree with you it was hotter in the early part of July , year before last , than it has been at any time this summer . 
Several degrees hotter several degrees . 
I fear I must beg to differ with you , he said , catching the poor lady again , a moment later . 
I beg to differ decidedly . 
Other places get a great deal more heat . 
Permit me to disagree , he interrupted her at once , when she pathetically squirmed to another subject . 
There's more than one side to this matter . 
You are looking at this matter from a totally wrong angle . 
Let me inform you that statistics . 
Mrs. Madison's gentle voice was no more than just audible in the short intervals he permitted a blind listener would have thought Mr. Trumble at the telephone . 
Hedrick was thankful when his mother finally gave up altogether the display of her ignorance , inaccuracy , and general misinformation , and Trumble talked alone . 
That must have been the young man's object certainly he had struggled for it and so it must have pleased him . 
Everything was italicized , the significant and the trivial , to the same monotone of emphasis . 
Death and shoe laces were all the same to him . 
Anything was all the same to him so long as he talked . 
The end of the long sheltered seclusion of Cora and her companion was a whispered word . 
He spoke it first To morrow ? To morrow . 
Cora gave a keen , quick , indrawn sigh not of sorrow and sank back in her chair , as he touched her hand in farewell and rose to go . 
He shook hands with Richard Lindley , asking genially Do you still live where you did just below here ? Yes . 
When I passed by there this afternoon , said Corliss , it recalled a stupendous conflict we had , once upon a time but I couldn't remember the cause . 
I remember the cause , said Mr. Lindley , but , stopping rather short , omitted to state it . 
At all events , it was settled . 
Yes , said the other quietly . 
Did I so ? Corliss laughed gayly . 
We mustn't let it happen again ! Mr. Trumble joined the parting guest , making simultaneous adieus with unmistakable elation . 
Mr. Trumble's dreadful entertainment had made it a happy evening for him . 
Mrs. Madison gave Lindley her hand . 
I think I'll go in . 
Come , Hedrick ! Hedrick rose , groaning , and batted his eyes painfully as he faced the hall light . 
What'd you and this Corliss fight about ? he asked , sleepily . 
Oh , I remember a lot of useless things . 
Well , what was it ? I want to know what you fought about . 
Come , Hedrick , repeated his mother , setting a gently urgent hand on his shoulder . 
I won't , said the boy impatiently , shaking her off and growing suddenly very wideawake and determined . 
I won't move a step till he tells me what they fought about . 
Not a step ! Well it was about a show . 
We were only boys , you know younger than you , perhaps . 
A circus ? A boy circus he and my brother got up in our yard . 
Well , what did you fight about ? I thought Val Corliss wasn't quite fair to my brother . 
No , it isn't ! How wasn't he fair ? They sold tickets to the other boys and I thought my brother didn't get his share . 
This Corliss kept it all ? Oh , something like that , said Lindley , laughing . 
Probably I was in the wrong . 
And he licked you ? All over the place ! I wish I'd seen it , said Hedrick , not unsympathetically , but as a sportsman . 
And he consented to be led away . 
They dis appeared and she turned , and , smiling , gave the delaying guest her hand in good night . 
His expression , which was somewhat troubled , changed to one of surprise as her face came into the light , for it was transfigured . 
Deeply flushed , her eyes luminous , she wore that shining look Hedrick had seen as she wrote in her secret book . 
Why , Laura ! said Lindley , wondering . 
She said good night again , and went in slowly . 
After a moment Cora added , with a deprecatory ripple of laughter not quite free from the same shrillness You see , Richard , it's so it's so hot , to night . 
The key turned a little , but not enough and she whispered to herself a monosyllable not usually attributed to the vocabulary of a damsel of rank . 
Next moment , her expression flashed in a brilliant change , like that of a pouting child suddenly remembering that tomorrow is Christmas . 
The key surrendered instantly , and she ran gayly up the familiar stairs in the darkness . 
The transom of Laura's door shone brightly but the knob , turning uselessly in Cora's hand , proved the door itself not so hospitable . 
There was a brief rustling within the room the bolt snapped , and Laura opened the door . 
Why , Laura , said Cora , observing her sister with transient curiosity , you haven't undressed . 
What have you been doing ? Something's the matter with you . 
I know what it is , she added , laughing , as she seated herself on the edge of the old black walnut bed . 
You're in love with Wade Trumble ! He's a strong man , observed Laura . 
Horrible little person ! said Cora , forgetting what she owed the unfortunate Mr. Trumble for the vocal wall which had so effectively sheltered her earlier in the evening . 
He's like one of those booming June bugs , batting against the walls , falling into lamp chimneys He doesn't get very near the light he wants , said Laura . 
Me ? Yes , he would like to , the rat ! But he's consoled when he can get any one to listen to his awful chatter . 
He makes up to himself among women for the way he gets sat on at the club . 
But he has his use he shows off the other men so , by contrast . 
Oh , Laura ! She lifted both hands to her cheeks , which were beautiful with a quick suffusion of high colour . 
Isn't he gorgeous ! Yes , said Laura gently , I've always thought so . 
Now what's the use of that ? asked Cora peevishly , with ME ? I didn't mean Richard Lindley . 
You KNOW what I mean . 
Yes of course I do , Laura said . 
And you know I can't help it , she said , shifting quickly to the role of accuser . 
I really don't think I can stand it to live in the same house any longer with that frightful little devil . 
He's been throwing Ray Vilas's name at me until oh , it was ghastly to night ! And then then Her tremulousness increased . 
I haven't said anything about it all day , but I MET him on the street downtown , this morning You met Vilas ? Laura looked startled . 
Did he speak to you ? Speak to me ! Cora's exclamation shook with a half laugh of hysteria . 
He is insane ! said Laura , aghast . 
He's nothing of the kind he's just a brute . 
Yes , every old cat in town says I ruined him , and that's what he wants them to say . 
It's so unmanly ! I wish he'd die ! Yes , I DO wish he would ! Why doesn't he kill himself ? Ah , don't say that , protested Laura . 
Why not ? He's threatened to enough . 
And I'm afraid to go out of the house because I can't tell when I'll meet him or what he'll do . 
I was almost sick in that jeweller's shop , this morning , and so upset I came away without getting my pendant . 
There's ANOTHER thing I've got to go through , I suppose ! She pounded the yielding pillow desperately . 
It's Richard's silly old engagement ring , you know , she explained , lightly . 
I had it made up into a pendant , and heaven knows how I'm going to get Richard to see it the right way . 
He was so unreasonable tonight . 
Was he cross about Mr. Corliss monopolizing you ? Oh , you know how he is , said Cora . 
He didn't speak of it exactly . 
But after you'd gone , he asked me She stopped with a little gulp , an expression of keen distaste about her mouth . 
A beautiful love' ! It's so mean ! Men ! She sprang up and threw out both arms in a vehement gesture of revolt . 
Damn 'em , I wish they'd let me ALONE ! Laura's eyes had lost their quiet they showed a glint of tears , and she was breathing quickly . 
In this crisis of emotion the two girls went to each other silently Cora turned , and Laura began to unfasten Cora's dress in the back . 
Poor Richard ! said Laura presently , putting into her mouth a tiny pearl button which had detached itself at her touch . 
This was his first evening in the overflow . 
No wonder he was troubled ! Pooh ! said Cora . 
As if you and mamma weren't good enough for him to talk to ! He's spoiled . 
I only meant , stand still . 
Well , it was ! And Cora's abrupt laugh had the glad , free ring fancy attaches to the merry confidences of a buccaneer in trusted company . 
Laura knelt to continue unfastening the dress and when it was finished she extended three of the tiny buttons in her hand . 
They're always loose on a new dress , she said . 
I'll sew them all on tight , to morrow . 
You good old thing , she said . 
You looked pretty to night . 
That's nice ! Laura laughed , as she dropped the buttons into a little drawer of her bureau . 
You really do look ever so pretty , asserted Cora . 
I wonder if I look as well as I did the last time I heard I was pretty , said the other . 
That was at the Assembly in March . 
Coming down the stairs , I heard a man from out of town say , That black haired Miss Madison is a pretty girl . 
This was a very different affair from Laura's , much cooler and larger occupying half the width of the house and a rather expensive struggle had made it pretty and even luxurious . 
A dressing table , charmingly littered with everything , took the place of a bureau and upon it , in a massive silver frame , was a large photograph of Mr. Richard Lindley . 
The frame was handsome , but somewhat battered it had seen service . 
However , the photograph was quite new . 
All the rest were sterner . 
Certainly , Hedrick had his own way of relieving dull times . 
Cora turned up the lights at the sides of the cheval glass , looked at herself earnestly , then absently , and began to loosen her hair . 
Even as you and I' ? she whispered . 
You DARLING ! she cried . 
Cora's christening had been unimaginative , for the name means only , maiden . 
She should have been called Narcissa . 
The rhapsody was over instantly , leaving an emotional vacuum like a silence at the dentist's . 
Cora yawned , and resumed the loosening of her hair . 
When she had put on her nightgown , she went from one window to another , closing the shutters against the coming of the morning light to wake her . 
It was a strange voice high pitched and hoarse and not quite human , so utter was the animal abandon of it . 
I love a lassie , a bonnie , bonnie lassie . 
She's as pure as the lily in the dell The voice grew louder came in front of the house came into the yard came and sang just under Cora's window . 
Cora's door opened and closed softly , and Laura , barefooted , stole to the bed and put an arm about the shaking form of her sister . 
The drunken beast ! sobbed Cora . 
It's to disgrace me ! That's what he wants . 
He'd like nothing better than headlines in the papers Ray Vilas arrested at the Madison residence' ! She choked with anger and mortification . 
The neighbours They're nearly all away , whispered Laura . 
The transom over the door became luminous some one had lighted the gas in the upper hall . 
Both girls jumped from the bed , ran to the door , and opened it . 
Their mother , wearing a red wrapper , was standing at the head of the stairs , which Mr. Madison , in his night shirt and slippers , was slowly and heavily descending . 
Before he reached the front door , the voice outside ceased its dreadful plaint with the abrupt anti climax of a phonograph stopped in the middle of a record . 
There was the sound of a struggle and wrestling , a turmoil in the wet shrubberies , branches cracking . 
Let me go , da cried the voice , drowned again at half a word , as by a powerful hand upon a screaming mouth . 
Presently he came in again , and started up the stairs , heavily and slowly , as he had gone down . 
Richard Lindley stopped him , he said , sighing with the ascent , and not looking up . 
He heard him as he came along the street , and dressed as quick as he could , and ran up and got him . 
He went to his own room , panting , mopping his damp gray hair with his fat wrist , and looking at no one . 
Cora began to cry again . 
Cora never lacked a gallery she sat there herself . 
And here , by a brown bench , waited a tall gentleman in white . 
They touched hands and sat without speaking . 
For several moments they continued the silence , then turned slowly and looked at each other then looked slowly and gravely away , as if to an audience in front of them . 
They knew how to do it but probably a critic in the first row would have concluded that Cora felt it even more than Valentine Corliss enjoyed it . 
I suppose this is very clandestine , she said , after a deep breath . 
I don't think I care , though . 
I hope you do , he smiled , so that I could think your coming means more . 
Then I'll care , she said , and looked at him again . 
You dear ! he exclaimed deliberately . 
She bit her lip and looked down , but not before he had seen the quick dilation of her ardent eyes . 
I wanted to be out of doors , she said . 
I'm afraid there's one thing of yours I don't like , Mr. Corliss . 
I'll throw it away , then . 
I don't like living in it , very much . 
I'm sorry you CAN'T throw it away . 
I'm thinking of doing that very thing , he laughed . 
But I'm glad I found the rose in that queer old waste basket first . 
Not too much like a rose , sometimes , she said . 
I think this morning I'm a little like some of the old doors up on the third floor I feel rather unhinged , Mr. Corliss . 
You don't look it , Miss Madison ! I didn't sleep very well . 
She bestowed upon him a glance which transmuted her actual explanation into , I couldn't sleep for thinking of you . 
It was perfectly definite but the acute gentleman laughed genially . 
Go on with you ! he said . 
Her eyes sparkled , and she joined laughter with him . 
But it's true you did keep me awake . 
Besides , I had a serenade . 
Serenade ? I had an idea they didn't do that any more over here . 
I don't think that sort of thing has been done for years and years . 
It wasn't an orchestra just a man singing under my window . 
With a guitar ? No. She laughed a little . 
But it rained last night , said Corliss , puzzled . 
Oh , HE wouldn't mind that ! How stupid of me ! Of course , he wouldn't . 
Was it Richard Lindley ? Never ! I see . 
Yes , that was a bad guess I'm sure Lindley's just the same steady going , sober , plodding old horse he was as a boy . 
His picture doesn't fit a romantic frame singing under a lady's window in a thunderstorm ! Your serenader must have been very young . 
He is , said Cora . 
I suppose he's about twenty three just a boy and a very annoying one , too ! Her companion looked at her narrowly . 
By any chance , is he the person your little brother seemed so fond of mentioning Mr. Vilas ? Cora gave a genuine start . 
Good heavens ! What makes you think that ? she cried , but she was sufficiently disconcerted to confirm his amused suspicion . 
So it was Mr. Vilas , he said . 
He's one of the jilted , of course . 
Oh , jilted' ! she exclaimed . 
All the wild boys that a girl can't make herself like aren't jilted , are they ? I believe I should say yes , he returned . 
Yes , in this instance , just about all of them . 
Is every woman a target for you , Mr. Corliss ? I suppose you know that you have a most uncomfortable way of shooting up the landscape . 
She stirred uneasily , and moved away from him to the other end of the bench . 
I didn't miss that time , he laughed . 
Don't you ever miss ? He leaned quickly toward her and answered in a low voice You can be sure I'm not going to miss anything about YOU . 
It was as if his bending near her had been to rouge her . 
I need a great deal of money , Miss Cora Madison . 
For your villa and your yacht ? No I'm a magician , dear lady Yes , she said , almost angrily . 
Of course you know it ! You mock me ! No I'm going to make everybody rich who will trust me . 
I have a secret , and it's worth a mountain of gold . 
I've put all I have into it , and will put in everything else I can get for myself , but it's going to take a great deal more than that . 
And everybody who goes into it will come out on Monte Cristo's island . 
Then I'm sorry papa hasn't anything to put in , she said . 
But he has his experience in business and his integrity . 
I want him to be secretary of my company . 
Will you help me to get him ? he laughed . 
Do you want me to ? she asked with a quick , serious glance straight in his eyes , one which he met admirably . 
I have an extremely definite impression , he said lightly , that you can make anybody you know do just what you want him to . 
And I have another that you have still another extremely definite impression' that takes rank over that , she said , but not with his lightness , for her tone was faintly rueful . 
It is that you can make ME do just what you want me to . 
Mr. Valentine Corliss threw himself back on the bench and laughed aloud . 
What a girl ! he cried . 
Then for a fraction of a second he set his hand over hers , an evanescent touch at which her whole body started and visibly thrilled . 
She lifted her gloved hand and looked at it with an odd wonder her alert emotions , always too ready , flinging their banners to her cheeks again . 
Oh , I don't think it's soiled , he said , a speech which she punished with a look of starry contempt . 
Thanks , he said , very softly . 
She dropped her hand to her parasol , and began , musingly , to dig little holes in the gravel of the path . 
Richard Lindley is looking for investments , she said . 
I'm glad to hear he's been so successful , returned Corliss . 
He might like a share in your gold mine . 
Thank heaven it isn't literally a gold mine , he exclaimed . 
There have been so many crooked ones exploited I don't believe you could get anybody nowadays to come in on a real one . 
But I think you'd make an excellent partner for an adventurer who had discovered hidden treasure and I'm that particular kind of adventurer . 
I think I'll take you in . 
Do you ? How would you like to save a man from being ruined ? Ruined ? You don't mean it literally ? Literally ! He laughed gayly . 
If I don't land' this I'm gone , smashed , finished quite ended ! Don't bother , I'm going to land' it . 
And it's rather a serious compliment I'm paying you , thinking you can help me . 
I'd like to see a woman just once in the world who could manage a thing like this . 
He became suddenly very grave . 
Good God ! wouldn't I be at her feet ! Her eyes became even more eager . 
He let a pause follow , and then said huskily How far are we going ? I don't know . 
She was barely audible but she turned deliberately , and there took place an eager exchange of looks which continued a long while . 
The direct front of pupil and iris did not waver from her but for the time he was not aware of her had not even heard her question . 
Cora instinctively turned and looked behind her , down the path . 
This sensation was the more curious because nothing whatever happened . 
The man got his apple , joined in the child's laughter , and went on . 
What was it you asked me ? said Corliss , lifting his head again and restoring the pin to his tie . 
He gazed carelessly at the back of the grandsire , disappearing beyond a bush at a bend in the path . 
Who was that man ? said Cora with some curiosity . 
That old fellow ? I haven't an idea . 
You see I've been away from here so many years I remember almost no one . 
Why ? I don't know , unless it was because I had an idea you were thinking of him instead of me . 
You didn't listen to what I said . 
That was because I was thinking so intensely of you , he began instantly . 
A startlingly vivid thought of you came to me just then . 
Do you think it was a prophecy ? he asked . 
What do YOU think ? she breathed . 
That was really what I asked you before . 
I think , he said slowly , that I'm in danger of forgetting that my hidden treasure' is the most important thing in the world . 
In great danger ? The words were not vocal . 
A white jacketed mulatto came from the house bearing something on a silver tray . 
Julip , Mist' Vilas ? he said sympathetically . 
And I wonder , he added , if you can tell me I'm Miz William Lindley's house man , Joe Vaxdens , said the mulatto , in the tone of an indulgent nurse . 
You in Miz Lindley's backyard right now , sittin' in a hammick . 
I seem to gather almost that much for myself , returned the patient . 
But I should like to know how I got here . 
Jes' come out the front door an' walk' aroun' the house an' set down . 
What I want to know is how I happened to be here at Mr. Lindley's . 
Mist' Richard brought you las' night , suh . 
Lord name ! You cert'n'y wasn't askin' fer no BED ! He took the glass , and the young man reclined again in the hammock , a hot blush vanquishing his pallor . 
Was I was I very bad , Joe ? Oh , you was all RIGHT , Joe hastened to reassure him . 
You was jes' on'y a little bit tight . 
Did it really seem only a little ? the other asked hopefully . 
Yessuh , said Joe promptly . 
You jes' wanted to rare roun' little bit . 
Mist' Richard took gun away from you What ? Oh , I tole him you wasn' goin' use it ! Joe laughed . 
But you so wile be din' know what you do . 
You cert'n'y was drunkes' man I see in LONG while , he said admiringly . 
He laughed again in high good humour . 
I tole Mist' Richard , the kindly servitor continued , it was a mighty good thing his ma gone up Norf endurin' the hot spell . 
Sence Mist' Will die she can't hardly bear to see drunkum man aroun' the house . 
Mist' Richard hardly ever tech nothin' himself no more . 
You goin' feel better , suh , out in the f'esh air , he concluded , comfortingly as he moved away . 
Mr. Vilas pulled himself upright for a moment . 
You din' make no trouble at all jes' went right off to bed . 
You ought seen some vem ole times me an Mist' Richard use to have 'ith Mist' Will Joe ! Yessuh . 
I want three more juleps and I want them right away . 
The troubled expression upon the coloured man's face deepened . 
Mist' Richard say jes' one , suh , he said reluctantly . 
I don't know , said Ray Vilas slowly , whether or not you ever heard that I was born and raised in Kentucky . 
Yessuh , returned Joe humbly . 
Well , then , said the young man in a quiet voice , you go and get me three juleps . 
I'll settle it with Mr. Richard . 
Hail , gloom ! returned Mr. Vilas , cordially , and , observing the anxious glance , he swiftly removed the untouched goblet from the table to his own immediate possession . 
Two simultaneous juleps will enhance the higher welfare , he explained airily . 
Sir , your Mr. Varden was induced to place a somewhat larger order with us than he protested to be your intention . 
I believe I do not err in assuming my cup bearer's name to be Varden , although he himself , in his simple Americo Africanism , is pleased to pluralize it . 
Do I fret you , host ? Not in the least , said Richard , dropping upon a rustic bench , and beginning to fan himself with his straw hat . 
What's the use of fretting about a boy who hasn't sense enough to fret about himself ? Boy ? Mr. Vilas affected puzzlement . 
Do I hear aright ? Sir , do you boy me ? Bethink you , I am now the shell of five mint juleps plus , and am pot valiant . 
I am the stature of a man had it not been for your razor I should wear the beard of a man therefore I'll not be boyed . 
What have you to say in defence ? Hadn't you better let me get Joe to bring you something to eat ? asked Richard . 
Eat ? Mr. Vilas disposed of the suggestion with mournful hauteur . 
There ! For the once I forgive you . 
Let the subject never be mentioned between us again . 
We will tactfully turn to a topic of interest . 
My memories of last evening , at first hazy and somewhat disconcerting , now merely amuse me . 
Following the pleasant Spanish custom , I went a serenading , but was kidnapped from beneath the precious casement by by a zealous arrival . 
Host , zealous arrival' is not the julep in action it is a triumph of paraphrase . 
I wish you'd let Joe take you back to bed , said Richard . 
Always bent on thoughts of the flesh , observed the other sadly . 
Beds are for bodies , and I am become a thing of spirit . 
My soul is grateful a little for your care of its casing . 
You behold , I am generous I am able to thank my successor to Carmen ! Lindley's back stiffened . 
Vilas ! Spare me your protests . 
The younger man waved his hand languidly . 
You wish not to confer upon this subject It's a subject we'll omit , said Richard . 
His companion stopped swinging , allowed the hammock to come to rest his air of badinage fell from him for the moment he seemed entirely sober and he spoke with gentleness . 
Mr. Lindley , if you please , I am still a gentleman at times . 
I beg your pardon , said Richard quickly . 
No need of that ! The speaker's former careless and boisterous manner instantly resumed possession . 
You must permit me to speak of a wholly fictitious lady , a creature of my wanton fancy , sir , whom I call Carmen . 
It will enable me to relieve my burdened soul of some remarks I have long wished to address to your excellent self . 
Oh , all right , muttered Richard , much annoyed . 
Also , I cannot even hate him , for in my clearer julep vision I see that he is but an interregnum . 
Let me not offend my friend chagrin is to be his as it is mine . 
I was a strong draught , he but the quieting potion our Carmen took to settle it . 
We shall be brothers in woe some day . 
Nothing in the universe lasts except Hell Life is running water Love , a looking glass Death , an empty theatre ! That reminds me as you are not listening I will sing . 
It was Valentine Corliss he had turned in from the street and was crossing the lawn to join the two young men . 
Lindley rose , and , greeting him with sufficient cordiality , introduced Mr. Vilas , who bestowed upon the newcomer a very lively interest . 
You are as welcome , Mr. Corliss , said this previous guest , earnestly , as if these sylvan shades were mine . 
I hail you , not only for your own sake , but because your presence encourages a hope that our host may offer refreshment to the entire company . 
Corliss smilingly declined to be a party to this diplomacy , and seated himself beside Richard Lindley on the bench . 
Then I relapse ! exclaimed Mr. Vilas , throwing himself back full length in the hammock . 
I am not replete , but content . 
Gentlemen , speak on ! He waved his hand in a gracious gesture , indicating his intention to remain silent , and lay quiet , his eyes fixed steadfastly upon Corliss . 
Of course , said Richard . 
I have a sinister purpose in coming , Mr. Corliss laughingly went on . 
I want to bore you a little first , and then make your fortune . 
No doubt that's an old story to you , but I happen to be one of the adventurers whose argosies are laden with real cargoes . 
Naturally , said Richard pleasantly , I shall be glad if you can do that . 
Then I'll come to the point . 
It is exceedingly simple that's certainly one attractive thing about it . 
Corliss took some papers and unmounted photographs from his pocket , and began to spread them open on the bench between himself and Richard . 
No doubt you know Southern Italy as well as I do . 
Oh , I don't know' it . 
I've been to Naples down to Paestum drove from Salerno to Sorrentoby Amalfi but that was years ago . 
Here's a large scale map that will refresh your memory . 
He unfolded it and laid it across their knees it was frayed with wear along the folds , and had been heavily marked and dotted with red and blue pencillings . 
My millions are in this large irregular section , he continued . 
It's the anklebone and instep of Italy's boot this sizable province called Basilicata , east of Salerno , north of Calabria . 
And I'll not hang fire on the point , Lindley . 
What I've got there is oil . 
Olives ? asked Richard , puzzled . 
Though of course one doesn't connect petroleum with the thought of Italy , and of all Italy , Southern Italy . 
Basilicata is the coming great oil field of the world and that's my secret . 
I dare to tell it here , as I shouldn't dare in Naples . 
Shouldn't dare' ? Richard repeated , with growing interest , and no doubt having some vague expectation of a tale of the Camorra . 
It isn't a case of not daring on account of any bodily danger , explained Corliss . 
No , Richard smiled reminiscently . 
I don't believe that would have much weight with you if it were . 
You certainly showed no symptoms of that sort in your extreme youth . 
I remember you had the name of being about the most daring and foolhardy boy in town . 
I grew up to be cautious enough in business , though , said the other , shaking his head gravely . 
I haven't been able to afford not being careful . 
He adjusted the map a prefatory gesture . 
Now , I'll make this whole affair perfectly clear to you . 
It's a simple matter , as are most big things . 
They decided to sink a well . 
He gave the business reality , colouring it with details relevant and irrelevant , anecdotes and wayside incidents he was fluent , elaborate , explicit throughout . 
They sank five wells , he said , at the angles of this irregular pentagon you see here on the map , outlined in blue . 
These red circles are the wells . 
Four of the wells came in tremendous , but they had managed to get them sealed after wasting he was sorry to think how many thousand barrels of oil . 
The fifth well was so enormous that they had not been able to seal it at the time of the speaker's departure for America . 
But I had a cablegram this morning , he added , letting me know they've managed to do it at last . 
Here is , the cablegram . 
He handed Richard a form signed Antonio Moliterno . 
Now , to go back to what I said about not daring' to speak of this in Naples , he continued , smiling . 
The fear is financial , not physical . 
The knowledge of the lucky strike , he explained , must be kept from the Neapolitan money sharks . 
So far , it was safe , the peasants of Basilicata being as medieval a lot as one could wish . 
He related that these peasants thought that the devils hiding inside the mountains had been stabbed by the drills , and that the oil was devils' blood . 
You can see some of the country people hanging about , staring at a well , in this kodak , though it's not a very good one . 
He put into Richard's hand a small , blurred photograph showing a spouting well with an indistinct crowd standing in an irregular semicircle before it . 
Is this the Basilicatan peasant costume ? asked Richard , indicating a figure in the foreground , the only one revealed at all definitely . 
Isn't the man wearing a fez ? Let me see , responded Mr. Corliss very quickly . 
Perhaps I gave you the wrong picture . 
Oh , no , he laughed easily , holding the kodak closer to his eyes that's all right it is a fez . 
That's old Salviati , our engineer , the man I spoke of who'd worked in Persia , you know he's always worn a fez since then . 
Got in the habit of it out there and says he'll never give it up . 
Moliterno's always chaffing him about it . 
He's a faithful old chap , Salviati . 
Lindley looked thoughtfully at the picture , which the other carelessly returned to his hand . 
There seems to be a lot of oil there . 
It's one of the smaller wells at that . 
And you can see from the kodak that it's just blowing' not an eruption from being shot , or the people wouldn't stand so near . 
Yes there's an ocean of oil under that whole province but we want a lot of money to get at it . 
It's mountain country our wells will all have to go over fifteen hundred feet , and that's expensive . 
We want to pipe the oil to Salerno , where the Standard's ships will take it from us , and it will need a great deal for that . 
Moliterno himself is as honourable a man as breathes God's air . 
But my experience has been that Neapolitan capitalists are about the cleverest and slipperiest financiers in the world . 
We could have financed it twenty times over in Naples in a day , but neither Moliterno nor I was willing to trust them . 
I suppose you'll think me rather sentimental , Corliss went on , with a laugh which unexpectedly betrayed a little shyness . 
I've never forgotten that I was born here was a boy here . 
In all my wanderings I've always really thought of this as home . 
He turned and looked Richard in the face . 
That's why I'm here , Mr. Lindley . 
The other impulsively put out his hand . 
I understand , he said heartily . 
Corliss changed his tone for one less serious . 
You've listened very patiently and I hope you'll be rewarded for it . 
Certainly you will if you decide to come in with us . 
May I leave the maps and descriptions with you ? Yes , indeed . 
I'll look them over carefully and have another talk with you about it . 
Thank heaven , THAT'S over ! exclaimed the lounger in the hammock , who had not once removed his fascinated stare from the expressive face of Valentine Corliss . 
Why ? Nothing , returned the other , inconsequently . 
It just struck me that you ought to sing the Toreador song . 
Richard Lindley , placing the notes and maps in his pocket , dropped them , and , stooping , began to gather the scattered papers with a very red face . 
Corliss , however , laughed good naturedly . 
That's most flattering , he said though there are other things in Carmen' I prefer probably because one doesn't hear them so eternally . 
Vilas pulled himself up to a sitting position and began to swing again . 
Observe our host , Mr. Corliss , he commanded gayly . 
He is a kind old Dobbin , much beloved , but cares damn little to hear you or me speak of music . 
He'd even rather discuss your oil business than listen to us talk of women , whereas nothing except women ever really interests YOU , my dear sir . 
How ridic Mr. Vilas triumphed over the word after a slight struggle ulous ! I shall review that ridiculous of you to pretend to be interested in oil fields . 
You are not that sort of person whatever . 
Nothing could be clearer than that you would never waste the time demanded by fields of oil . 
Groundlings call this the mechanical age' a vulgar error . 
My dear sir , you and I know that it is the age of Woman ! Even poets have begun to see that she is alive . 
Formerly we did not speak of her at all , but of late years she has become such a scandal that she is getting talked about . 
Even our dramas , which used to be all blood , have become all flesh . 
I wish I were dead but will continue my harangue because the thought is pellucid . 
Women selecting men to mate with are of only two kinds , just as there are but two kinds of children in a toy shop . 
For my part , my wires are working rather rustily , but I must obey the Stage Manager . 
For my requiem I wish somebody would ask them to play Gounod's masterpiece . 
What's that ? asked Corliss , amused . 
The Funeral March of a Marionette ! I suppose you mean that for a cheerful way of announcing that you are a fatalist . 
Fatalism ? That is only a word , declared Mr. Vilas gravely . 
If I am not a puppet then I am a god . 
Somehow , I do not seem to be a god . 
If a god is a god , one thinks he would know it himself . 
I now yield the floor . 
Thanking you cordially , I believe there is a lady walking yonder who commands salutation . 
He rose to his feet , bowing profoundly . 
Cora Madison was passing , strolling rather briskly down the street , not in the direction of her home . 
She waved her parasol with careless gayety to the trio under the trees , and , going on , was lost to their sight . 
Hello ! exclaimed Corliss , looking at his watch with a start of surprise . 
I have two letters to write for the evening mail . 
At this , Ray Vilas's eyes still fixed upon him , as they had been throughout the visit opened to their fullest capacity , in a gaze of only partially alcoholic wildness . 
Entirely aware of this singular glare , but not in the least disconcerted by it , the recipient proffered his easy farewells . 
I had no idea it was so late . 
Mr. Vilas , I have been delighted with your diagnosis . 
Lindley , I'm at your disposal when you've looked over my data . 
There was a gasp of desperation beside him , and the sound of Ray Vilas's lips parting and closing with little noises of pain . 
So he knows her , said the boy , his thin body shaking . 
You good old fool , he cried . 
Indeed , it was half an hour later , and he was sitting to his own consciousness too heavily upon the back fence , when belated inspiration arrived . 
No he sat upon the fence an inoffensive lad , and except for still feeling his hash somewhat , and a gradually dispersing rancour concerning the cat at peace . 
It is for such lulled mortals that the ever lurking Furies save their most hideous surprises . 
Chin on palms , he looked idly at the moon , and the moon inscrutably returned his stare . 
Plausible , bright , bland , it gave no sign that it was at its awful work . 
For the bride of night is like a card dealer whose fingers move so swiftly through the pack the trickery goes unseen . 
Withal , it may never be gazed upon so fixedly and so protractedly no matter how languidly with entire impunity . 
That light breeds a bug in the brain . 
Oh , little boy ! He looked over his shoulder and saw , standing in the alley behind him , a girl of about his own age . 
She was daintily dressed and had beautiful hair which was all shining in pale gold . 
Little boy ! She was smiling up at him , and once more she used that wantonly inaccurate vocative Little boy ! Hedrick grunted unencouragingly . 
Who you callin' little boy' ? For reply she began to climb the fence . 
Arriving at the top rather dishevelled , and with irregular pennons here and there flung to the breeze from her attire , she seated herself cosily beside the dumbfounded Hedrick . 
She turned her face to him and smiled and there was something about her smile which Hedrick did not like . 
It discomforted him nothing more . 
In sunlight he would have had the better chance to comprehend but , unhappily , this was moonshine . 
Kiss me , little boy ! she said . 
I won't ! exclaimed the shocked and indignant Hedrick , edging uneasily away from her . 
Let's play , she said cheerfully . 
Play what ? I like chickens . 
Did you know I like chickens ? The rather singular lack of connection in her remarks struck him as a misplaced effort at humour . 
You're having lots of fun with me , aren't you ? he growled . 
She instantly moved close to him and lifted her face to his . 
Kiss me , darling little boy ! she said . 
The doomed lad saw the moon shining through it . 
Kiss me , darling little boy ! she repeated . 
His head whirled for the moment she seemed divine . 
George Washington used profanity at the Battle of Monmouth . 
He instantly pushed her away with strong distaste . 
There ! he said angrily . 
I hope that'll satisfy you ! He belonged to his sex . 
Kiss me some more , darling little boy ! she cried , and flung her arms about him . 
Hedrick was first upon his feet . 
Haven't you got ANY sense ? he demanded . 
and repeated Kiss me some more , darling little boy ! No , I won't ! I wouldn't for a thousand dollars ! Apparently , she did not consider this discouraging . 
She began to advance endearingly , while he retreated backward . 
Kiss me some I won't , I tell you ! Hedrick kept stepping away , moving in a desperate circle . 
He resorted to a brutal formula You make me sick ! Kiss me some more , darling lit I won't ! he bellowed . 
Kiss me some more , darling little boy ! Laura uttered a sharp exclamation . 
Stand still , Hedrick ! she called . 
You must ! Hedrick made a piteous effort to increase his speed . 
It's Lolita Martin , called Laura . 
She must have her way or nothing can be done with her . 
Stand STILL ! Hedrick had never heard of Lolita Martin , but the added information concerning her was not ineffective it operated as a spur and Laura joined the hunt . 
Stand still ! she cried to the wretched quarry . 
She must be taken home . 
The next instant , Lolita , laughing happily , flung her arms round his neck from behind . 
Lemme go ! shuddered Hedrick . 
Lemme go ! Kiss me again , darl I woof ! He became inarticulate . 
She isn't quite right , his sister whispered hurriedly in his ear . 
She has spells when she's weak mentally . 
You must be kind to her . 
She only wants you to ONLY' ! he echoed hoarsely . 
I won't ki He was unable to finish the word . 
We must get her home , said Laura anxiously . 
Will you come with me , Lolita , dear ? Apparently Lolita had no consciousness whatever of Laura's presence . 
Instead of replying , she tightened her grasp upon Hedrick and warmly reiterated her request . 
Shut up , you parrot ! hissed the goaded boy . 
Perhaps she'll go if you let her walk with her arms round your neck , suggested Laura . 
If I WHAT ? Let's try it . 
We've got to get her home her mother must be frantic about her . 
Come , let's see if she'll go with us that way . 
Come , Lolita , said Laura coaxingly . 
We're going for a nice walk . 
At the adjective , Hedrick's burdened shoulders were racked with a brief spasm , which recurred as his sister added Your darling little boy will let you keep hold of him . 
When they reached the cross street at the alley's upper end , Hedrick balked flatly . 
Laura expostulated , then entreated . 
Hedrick refused with sincere loathing to be seen upon the street occupying his present position in the group . 
Ain't he the spooner ! remarked this unknown with hideous admiration . 
I'll thank you , returned Hedrick haughtily , to go on about your own business . 
Kiss me some more , darling little boy ! said Lolita . 
The strange boy squawked , wailed , screamed with laughter , howled the loving petition in a dozen keys of mockery , while Hedrick writhed and Lolita clung . 
Enriched by a new and great experience , the torturer trotted on , leaving viperish cachinna tions in his wake . 
But the martyrdom was at an end . 
A woman , hurrying past , bareheaded , was greeted by a cry of delight from Lolita , who released Hedrick and ran to her with outstretched arms . 
We were bringing her home , Mrs. Martin , said Laura , reassuringly . 
She's all right nothing's the matter except that her dress got torn . 
We found her playing in our yard . 
Not at all , said Laura cheerfully . 
We'll go home by the street , I think . 
She touched his shoulder , and he went with her in stunned obedience . 
He was not able to face the incredible thing that had happened to him he walked in a trance of horror . 
Poor little girl ! said Laura gently , with what seemed to her brother an indefensibly misplaced compassion . 
Usually they have her live in an institution for people afflicted as she is , but they brought her home for a visit last week , I believe . 
Of course you didn't understand , but I think you should have been more thoughtful . 
Really , you shouldn't have flirted with her . 
FLIRTED' ! His voice was beginning to show symptoms of changing , this year it rose to a falsetto wail , flickered and went out . 
With the departure of Lolita in safety , what had seemed bizarre and piteous became obscured , and another aspect of the adventure was presented to Laura . 
The sufferings of the arrogant are not wholly depressing to the spectator and of arrogance Hedrick had ever been a master . 
She began to shake a convulsion took her , and suddenly she sat upon the curbstone without dignity , and laughed as he had never seen her . 
A horrid distrust of her rose within him he began to realize in what plight he stood , what terrors o'erhung . 
Not so long as you're good . 
This was no reassuring answer . 
And politer to Cora , she added . 
Seemingly he heard the lash of a slave whip crack in the air . 
I know you'll try she said and the unhappy lad felt that her assurance was justified but she had not concluded the sentence darling little boy , she capped it , choking slightly . 
It seems so so CURIOUS , she explained , gasping , that the first one the the only one should be an a an She was unable to continue . 
Hedrick's distrust became painfully increased he began to feel that he disliked Laura . 
He swung the chair about , with its back to the street , and sat facing the wall . 
There are profundities in the abyss which reveal no glimpse of the sky . 
Presently he heard his father coughing near by and the sound was hateful , because it seemed secure and unshamed . 
Hedrick had a dread that his father might speak to him he was in no condition for light conversation . 
But Mr. Madison was unaware of his son's near presence , and continued upon his purposeless way . 
He was smoking his one nightly cigar and en joying the moonlight . 
He drifted out toward the sidewalk and was accosted by a passing acquaintance , a comfortable burgess of sixty , leading a child of six or seven , by the hand . 
Out taking the air , are you , Mr. Madison ? said the pedestrian , pausing . 
Yes just trying to cool off , returned the other . 
How are you , Pryor , anyway ? I haven't seen you for a long time . 
Not since last summer , said Pryor . 
I only get here once or twice a year , to see my married daughter . 
I always try to spend August with her if I can . 
She's still living in that little house , over on the next street , I bought for her through your real estate company . 
I suppose you're still in the same business ? Yes . 
Pretty slack , these days . 
I suppose so , I suppose so , responded Mr. Pryor , nodding . 
Summer , I suppose it usually is . 
Well , I don't know when I'll be going out on the road again myself . 
Business is pretty slack all over the country this year . 
Let's see I've forgotten , said Madison ruminatively . 
You travel , don't you ? For a New York house , affirmed Mr. Pryor . 
He did not , however , mention his line . 
Let's see , you've got four , haven't you ? Three , said Madison . 
Two girls and a boy . 
You got both your daughters living with you , haven't you ? Yes , right here at home . 
Let's see neither of 'em's married , I believe ? No not yet . 
Not that I know of . 
Well , I suppose you'd be the first to know ! Yes sir . 
And both men laughed their appreciation of this folly . 
They're mighty good looking girls , THAT'S certain , continued Mr. Pryor . 
And one of 'em's as fine a dresser as you'll meet this side the Rue de la Paix . 
You mean in Paris ? asked Madison , slightly surprised at this allusion . 
You've been over there , Pryor ? Oh , sometimes , was the response . 
My business takes me over , now and then . 
I THINK it's one of your daughters I've noticed dresses so well . 
Pretty name , too , said Pryor approvingly . 
I saw her going into a florist's , downtown , the other day , with a fine looking young fellow I can't think of his name . 
Let's see my daughter was with me , and she'd heard his name said his family used to be big people in this town and Oh , said Madison , young Corliss . 
Corliss ! exclaimed Mr. Pryor , with satisfaction . 
Well , sir , he chuckled , from the way he was looking at your Miss Cora it struck me he seemed kind of anxious for her name to be Corliss , too . 
Well , hardly I expect , said the other . 
They just barely know each other he's only been here a few weeks they haven't had time to get much acquainted , you see . 
I suppose not , agreed Mr. Pryor , with perfect readiness . 
I'll bet HE tries all he can to get acquainted though he looked pretty smart to me . 
Doesn't he come about as often as the law allows ? I shouldn't be surprised , said Madison indifferently . 
He doesn't know many people about here any more , and it's lonesome for him at the hotel . 
But I guess he comes to see the whole family I left him in the library a little while ago , talking to my wife . 
Pretty name , Cora' , said Pryor . 
What's this little girl's name ? Mr. Madison indicated the child , who had stood with heroic patience throughout the incomprehensible dialogue . 
Lottie , for her mother . 
She's a good little girl . 
She is SO ! I've got a young son she ought to know , remarked Mr. Madison serenely , with an elderly father's total unconsciousness of the bridgeless gap between seven and thirteen . 
He'd like to play with her . 
I expect we better be getting on , said Pryor . 
It's near Lottie's bedtime we just came out for our evening walk . 
Well , he can come and shake hands with her anyway , urged Hedrick's father . 
Then they'll know each other , and they can play some other time . 
He turned toward the house and called loudly Hedrick ! There was no response . 
Behind the back of his chair Hedrick could not be seen . 
He was still sitting immovable , his eyes torpidly fixed upon the wall . 
Oh , HED rick ! shouted his father . 
Come out here ! I want you to meet a little girl ! Come and see a nice little girl ! Mr. Pryor's grandchild was denied the pleasure . 
Here he removed his shoes , noiselessly mounted to the sill of one of the library windows , then reconnoitred through a slit in the blinds before entering . 
The gas burned low in the drop light almost too dimly to reveal the two people upon a sofa across the room . 
It was a faint murmur from one of them that caused Hedrick to pause and peer more sharply . 
They were Cora and Corliss he was bending close to her her face was lifting to his . 
Ah , kiss me ! Kiss me ! she whispered . 
Hedrick dropped from the sill , climbed through a window of the kitchen , hurried up the back stairs , and reached his own apartment in time to be violently ill in seclusion . 
As a matter of fact , in summer , the other members of his family always looked uncommonly haggard at the Sunday breakfast table . 
It is an incredibly patient citizenry and exalts its persecutors . 
Of the Madison family , Cora probably suffered most and this was the time when it was no advantage to have the front bedroom . 
She had not slept until close upon dawn , and the hawkers woke her irreparably she could but rage upon her hot pillow . 
By and by , there came a token that another anguish kept company with hers . 
She had left her door open for a better circulation of the warm and languid air , and from Hedrick's room issued an OOF ! of agonized disgust . 
Cora little suspected that the youth reeked not of newsboys Hedrick's miseries were introspective . 
Having ample reason , that morning , to prefer sleep to thinking , sleep was impossible . 
But she fought for it she did not easily surrender what she wanted and she struggled on , with closed eyes , long after she had heard the others go down to breakfast . 
Prashus joowuls , sweet joowuls , THEE jams off iz crowowun , sang the little voices feebly . 
They were almost unheard but the young man helped them out figuratively , he put them out . 
In his daily walk this cornetist had no enemies he was kind hearted he would not have shot a mad dog he gladly nursed the sick . 
He sat upon the platform before the children he swelled , perspired and blew , and felt that it was a good blowing . 
Her image was imprinted he talked about her to his boarding house friends and office acquaintances , his favourite description being , the sweetest looking lady I ever laid eyes on . 
Cora , descending to the breakfast table rather white herself , was not unpleasantly shocked by the haggard aspect of Hedrick , who , with Laura and Mrs. Madison , still lingered . 
I'll take it to the kitchen and have it warmed for you . 
And he took the plate and went out , walking softly . 
Cora turned to her mother , appalled . 
He'll be sick ! she said . 
Mrs. Madison shook her head and smiled sadly . 
He helped to wait on all of us he must have been doing something awful . 
More likely he wants permission to do something awful . 
Laura looked out of the window . 
There , Cora , said Hedrick kindly , when he brought the toast you'll find that nice and hot . 
She regarded him steadfastly , but with modesty he avoided her eye . 
The locusts railed overhead Hedrick looked neither to the right nor to the left . 
Good morning , said Mr. Wade Trumble . 
Thought I'd take a look in at church this morning myself . 
Care of this encumbrance was usually expected of Laura and Mrs. Madison , but to their surprise Cora offered a sprightly rejoinder and presently dropped behind them with Mr. Trumble . 
Mr. Trumble was also surprised and , as naively , pleased . 
What's happened ? he asked with cheerful frankness . 
You haven't given me a chance to talk to you for a long while . 
Haven't I ? she smiled enigmatically . 
I don't think you've tried very hard . 
This was too careless it did not quite serve , even for Trumble . 
What's up ? he asked , not without shrewdness . 
Is Richard Lindley out of town ? I don't know . 
Don't you ever be nice to me unless you mean it , he said feebly . 
Cora looked grave and sweet she seemed mysteriously moved . 
I never do anything I don't mean , she said in a low voice which thrilled the little man . 
This was machine work , easy and accurate . 
Cora he began , breathlessly . 
There ! she exclaimed , shifting on the instant to a lively brusqueness . 
That's enough for you just NOW . 
We're on our way to church ! Trumble felt almost that she had accepted him . 
Have you got your penny for the contribution box ? she smiled . 
I suppose you really give a great deal to the church . 
I hear you're richer and richer . 
I do pretty well , he returned , coolly . 
You can know just how well , if you like . 
Not on Sunday , she laughed then went on , admiringly , I hear you're very dashing in your speculations . 
Then you've heard wrong , because I don't speculate , he returned . 
I'm not a gambler except on certainties . 
I guess I disappointed a friend of yours the other day because I wouldn't back him on a thousand to one shot . 
Who was that ? she asked , with an expression entirely veiled . 
He came to see me wanted me to put real money into an oil scheme . 
Too thin ! Why is it too thin' ? she asked carelessly . 
Too far away , for one thing somewhere in Italy . 
Anybody who put up his cash would have to do it on Corliss's bare word that he's struck oil . 
Well ? She turned her face to him , and a faint perturbation was manifest in her tone . 
Isn't Mr. Corliss's bare word' supposed to be perfectly good ? Oh , I suppose so , but I don't know . 
He isn't known here nobody really knows anything about him except that he was born here . 
Besides , I wouldn't make an investment on my own father's bare word , if he happened to be alive . 
Perhaps not ! Cora spoke impulsively , a sudden anger getting the better of her , but she controlled it immediately . 
Of course I don't mean that , she laughed , sweetly . 
But I happen to think Mr. Corliss's scheme a very handsome one , and I want my friends to make their fortunes , of course . 
Richard Lindley and papa are going into it . 
I'll bet they don't , said Trumble promptly . 
Lindley told me he'd looked it over and couldn't see his way to . 
He did ? Cora stiffened perceptibly and bit her lip . 
This is funny you trying to talk business ! So Corliss has been telling you about it ? Yes , he has and I understand it perfectly . 
I think there's an enormous fortune in it , and you'd better not laugh at me a woman's instinct about such things is better than a man's experience sometimes . 
You'll find neither Lindley nor your father are going to think so , he returned skeptically . 
She gave him a deep , sweet look . 
He shook his head ominously . 
No , he answered doggedly , I wouldn't . 
They had reached the church Hedrick and his father had entered Mrs. Madison and Laura were waiting on the steps . 
Cora and Trumble came to a stop some yards away . 
Wade , I I WANT you to go into this . 
Can't do it , he said stubbornly . 
If you ever make up your mind to marry me , I'll spend all the money you like on YOU , but you'll have to keep to the woman's side of the house . 
You make it pretty hard for me to be nice to you , she returned , and the tremor now more evident in her voice was perfectly genuine . 
You positively refuse to do this for me ? Yes I do . 
I wouldn't buy sight unseen to please God 'lmighty , Cora Madison . 
He looked at her shrewdly , struck by a sudden thought . 
Did Corliss ask you to try and get me in ? He did not , she responded , icily . 
Your refusal is final ? Certainly ! He struck the pavement a smart rap with his walking stick . 
By George , I believe he DID ask you ! That spoils church for me this morning I'll not go in . 
When you quit playing games , let me know . 
You needn't try to work me any more , because I won't stand for it , but if you ever get tired of playing , come and tell me so . 
He uttered a bark of rueful laughter . 
Ha ! I must say that gentleman has an interesting way of combining business with pleasure ! Under favourable circumstances the blow Cora dealt him might have been physically more violent . 
Good morning , she laughed , gayly . 
I'm not bothering much about Mr. Corliss's oil in Italy . 
I had a bet with Laura I could keep you from saying I beg to differ , or talking about the weather for five minutes . 
The service failed to occupy her attention she had much in her thoughts to distract her . 
Nevertheless , she bestowed some wonderment upon the devotion with which her brother observed each ceremonial rite . 
She saw Laura's clear profile becoming subtly agitated then noticed a shimmer of Laura's dark eye as it wandered to Hedrick and so swiftly away it seemed not to dare to remain . 
Cora was quick she perceived that Laura was repressing a constant desire to laugh and that she feared to look at Hedrick lest it overwhelm her . 
So Laura knew what had wrought the miracle . 
Cora made up her mind to explore this secret passage . 
He was ascending the opposite aisle , walking beside Richard Lindley . 
Cora frowned and turned away her head with an air of annoyance . 
They came near each other in the convergence at the doors but he made no effort to address her , and , moving away through the crowd as quickly as possible , disappeared . 
Valentine Corliss was disclosed in the vestibule . 
He reached her an instant in advance of Mr. Lindley , who had suffered himself to be impeded and Cora quickly handed the former her parasol , lightly taking his arm . 
Laura and Richard walked in the unmitigated glare of the sun he had taken her black umbrella and conscientiously held it aloft , but over nobody . 
They walked in silence they were quiet people , both of them and Richard , not talkative under any circumstances , never had anything whatever to say to Laura Madison . 
, Laura was in nothing her sister's competitor . 
And she did not disturb the trance she did nothing to make him observe that she was there . 
She walked on with head , shoulders , and back scorching in the fierce sun , and allowed him to continue shading the pavement before them with her umbrella . 
When they reached the house she gently took the umbrella from him and thanked him and he mechanically raised his hat . 
They had walked more than a mile together he had not spoken a word , and he did not even know it . 
Another wait followed while she prettily arranged upon the table some dozens of asters from a small garden bed , tilled , planted , and tended by Laura . 
Meanwhile , Mrs. Madison constantly turned the other cheek to the cook . 
Cora did the talking for the table . 
She was in high spirits no trace remained of a haggard night there was a bloom upon her she was radiant . 
Laura started when she saw it , and involuntarily threw a glance almost of terror at Richard Lindley . 
But that melancholy and absent minded gentleman observed neither the glance nor the jewel . 
He saw Cora's eyes , when they were vouchsafed to his vision , and when they were not he apparently saw nothing at all . 
Catching Laura's eye , he applied a handkerchief with renewed presence of mind , affecting to have sneezed , and stared searchingly over it at Corliss . 
He perceived that the man remained unmoved , evidently already in formed that it was Laura who was the musician . 
Cora must be going it pretty fast this time such was the form of her brother's deduction . 
When Laura opened the piano , Richard had taken a seat beside Cora , and Corliss stood leaning in the doorway . 
The player lost herself in a wandering medley , echoes from Boheme and Pagliacci then drifted into improvisation and played her heart into it magnificently a heart released to happiness . 
The flooding , triumphant chords rose , crashed stopped with a shattering abruptness . 
Laura's hands fell to her sides , then were raised to her glowing face and concealed it for a moment . 
She shivered a quick , deep sigh heaved her breast and she came back to herself like a prisoner leaving a window at the warden's voice . 
Cora and Corliss had left the room . 
Richard was sitting beside a vacant chair , staring helplessly at the open door . 
If he had been vaguely conscious of Laura's playing , which is possible , certainly he was unaware that it had ceased . 
The others have gone out to the porch , she said composedly , and rose . 
Shan't we join them ? What ? he returned , blankly . 
I beg your pardon Let's go out on the porch with the others . 
No , I He got to his feet confusedly . 
I was thinking I believe I'd best be going home . 
Not best , I think , she said . 
Not even better ! I don't see , he said , his perplexity only increased . 
Mr. Corliss would , she retorted quickly . 
Come on we'll go and sit with them . 
And she compelled his obedience by preceding him with such a confident assumption that he would follow that he did . 
Cora had promised to show Mr. Corliss an old print in the library so Cora said . 
Lindley gave the remaining lady a desolate and faintly reproachful look . 
He was kind , but he was a man and Laura saw that this last abandonment was being attributed in part to her . 
She reddened , and , being not an angel , observed with crispness Certainly . 
You're quite right it's my fault ! What did you say ? he asked vacantly . 
She looked at him rather fixedly his own gaze had returned to the angle of the house beyond which the other couple had just disappeared . 
I said , she answered , slowly , I thought it wouldn't rain this , afternoon . 
His wistful eyes absently swept the serene sky which had been cloudless for several days . 
No , I suppose not , he murmured . 
Richard , she said with a little sharpness , will you please listen to me for a moment ? Oh what ? He was like a diver coming up out of deep water . 
What did you say ? He laughed apologetically . 
Wasn't I listening ? I beg your pardon . 
What is it , Laura ? Why do you let Mr. Corliss take Cora away from you like that ? she asked gravely . 
He doesn't , the young man returned with a rueful shake of the head . 
Don't you see ? It's Cora that goes . 
Why do you let her , then ? He sighed . 
I don't seem to be able to keep up with Cora , especially when she's punishing me . 
I couldn't do something she asked me to , last night Invest with Mr. Corliss ? asked Laura quickly . 
It seemed to trouble her that I couldn't . 
She's convinced it's a good thing she thinks it would make a great fortune for us Us' ? repeated Laura gently . 
You mean for you and her ? When you're When we're married . 
Yes , he said thoughtfully , that's the way she stated it . 
She wanted me to put in all I have Don't do it ! said Laura decidedly . 
He glanced at her with sharp inquiry . 
What I meant was that I don't believe it would really be a good thing for you with Cora . 
It would please her , of course thinking I deferred so much to her judgment . 
Don't do it ! she said again , impulsively . 
I don't see how I can , he returned sorrowfully . 
It's my work for all the years since I got out of college , and if I lost it I'd have to begin all over again . 
It would mean postponing everything . 
He made this explanation with plaintive and boyish sincerity , hesitatingly , and as if pleading a cause . 
And Laura , after a long look at him , turned away , and in her eyes were actual tears of compassion for the incredible simpleton . 
I see , she said . 
She seems to have taken a great fancy to him . 
Laura glanced at him , but did not speak . 
He IS attractive , continued Richard feebly . 
I think he has a great deal of what people call magnetism' he's the kind of man who somehow makes you want to do what he wants you to . 
He seems a manly , straightforward sort , too so far as one can tell and when he came to me with his scheme I was strongly inclined to go into it . 
But it is too big a gamble , and I can't , though I was sorry to disappoint him myself . 
He was perfectly cheerful about it and so pleasant it made me feel small . 
I don't wonder at all that Cora likes him so much . 
Besides , he seems to understand her . 
I think he does , she said slowly . 
And then he's different , said Richard . 
He's more a man of the world' than most of us here she never saw anything just like him before , and she's seen US all her life . 
She likes change , of course . 
That's natural , he said gently . 
Poor Vilas says she wants a man to be different every day , and if he isn't , then she wants a different man every day . 
You've rather taken Ray Vilas under your wing , haven't you ? asked Laura . 
Oh , no , he answered deprecatingly . 
I only try to keep him with me so he'll stay away from downtown as much as possible . 
Does he talk much of Cora ? All the time . 
I suppose he can't help it , because he thinks of nothing else . 
Isn't that rather rather queer for you ? Queer' ? he repeated . 
No , I suppose not ! She laughed impatiently . 
And probably you don't think it's queer' of you to sit here helplessly , and let another man take your place But I don't let' him , Laura , he protested . 
No , he just does it ! Well , he smiled , you must admit my efforts to supplant him haven't It won't take any effort now , she said , rising quickly . 
Valentine Corliss came into their view upon the sidewalk in front , taking his departure . 
Seeing that they observed him , he lifted his hat to Laura and nodded a cordial good day to Lindley . 
Just before he reached the corner of the lot , he encountered upon the pavement a citizen of elderly and plain appearance , strolling with a grandchild . 
But one had asked a question and the other had answered . 
Mr. Pryor spoke in a low monotone , with a rapidity as singular as the restrained but perceptible emphasis he put upon one word of his question . 
I got you in the park , he said and it is to be deduced that got was argot . 
You're not DOING anything here , are you ? No ! answered Corliss with condensed venom , his back already to the other . 
He fanned himself with his hat as he went on . 
Mr. Pryor strolled up the street with imperturbable benevolence . 
Your coast is cleared , said Laura , since you wouldn't clear it yourself . 
Wish me luck , said Richard as he left her . 
and smiled rather disconsolately , shaking his head as in prophecy of no very encouraging reception indoors . 
The manner of this glance recalled to Laura what his mother had once said of him . 
Richard is one of those sweet , helpless men that some women adore and others despise . 
They fall in love with the ones that despise them . 
An ostentatious cough made her face about , being obviously designed to that effect and she beheld her brother in the act of walking slowly across the yard with his back to her . 
He had the air of a virtuous man performing a good action which would never become known . 
Plainly , he thought himself in solitude and all unobserved . 
It was a touching picture , pious and humble . 
Done into coloured glass , the kneeling boy and the asters submerged in ardent sunshine would have appropriately enriched a cathedral Boyhood of Saint Florus the Gardener . 
Laura heartlessly turned her back , and , affecting an interest in her sleeve , very soon experienced the sensation of being stared at with some poignancy from behind . 
Unchanged in attitude , she unravelled an imaginary thread , whereupon the cough reached her again , shrill and loud , its insistence not lacking in pathos . 
She approached him , driftingly . 
No sign that he was aware came from the busied boy , though he coughed again , hollowly now a proof that he was an artist . 
All right , Hedrick , she said kindly . 
I heard you the first time . 
He looked up with utter incomprehension . 
I'm afraid I've caught cold , he said , simply . 
I got a good many weeds out before breakfast , and the ground was damp . 
Hedrick was of the New School everything direct , real , no striving for effect , no pressure on the stroke . 
He did his work you could take it or leave it . 
You mustn't strain so , dear , returned his sister , shaking her head . 
It won't last if you do . 
You see this is only the first day . 
Struck to the heart by so brutal a misconception , he put all his wrongs into one look , rose in manly dignity , picked up his handkerchief , and left her . 
Her eyes followed him , not without remorse it was an exit which would have moved the bass violist of a theatre orchestra . 
Sighing , she went to her own room by way of the kitchen and the back stairs , and , having locked her door , brought the padlocked book from its hiding place . 
I think I should not have played as I did , an hour ago , she wrote . 
But I WILL not ! No. You are here in the world . 
You ARE ! That is the great thing to know and it must be enough for me . 
I played JUST LOVE to you all the yearning tenderness all the supreme kindness I want to give you . 
Isn't love really just glorified kindness ? No , there is something more . 
I feel it , though I do not know how to say it . 
But it was in my playing I played it and played it . 
Suddenly I felt that in my playing I had shouted it from the housetops , that I had told the secret to all the world and EVERYBODY knew . 
I stopped , and for a moment it seemed to me that I was dying of shame . 
No one had even listened . 
Sometimes it seems to me that I am like Cora , that I am very deeply her sister in some things . 
and perhaps the writing keeps me quiet . 
Cora scatters her own releasings she is looking for the You she may never find and perhaps the penalty for scat tering is never finding . 
Sometimes I think the seeking has reacted and that now she seeks only what will make her feel . 
I hope she has not found it I am afraid of this new man not only for your sake , dear . 
I felt repelled by his glance at me the first time I saw him . 
I did not like it I cannot say just why , unless that it seemed too intimate . 
The opening of the door revealed Mrs. Madison in a state of anxious perturbation , and admitted the sound of loud weeping and agitated voices from below . 
Please go down , implored the mother . 
You can do more with her than I can . 
She and your father have been having a terrible scene since Richard went home . 
Laura hurried down to the library . 
CHAPTER ELEVEN Oh , COME in , Laura ! cried her sister , as Laura appeared in the doorway . 
Shut the door ! shouted Cora violently , adding , as Laura obeyed , Do you want that little Pest in here ? Probably he's eavesdropping anyway . 
But what difference does it make ? I don't care . 
Let him hear ! Let anybody hear that wants to ! They can hear how I'm tortured if they like . 
I didn't close my eyes last night , and now I'm being tortured . 
Papa ! She stamped her foot . 
Are you going to take back that insult to me ? Insult' ? repeated her father , in angry astonishment . 
Pshaw , said Laura , laughing soothingly and coming to her . 
You know that's nonsense , Cora . 
Kind old papa couldn't do that if he tried . 
Dear , you know he never insulted anybody in his Don't touch me ! screamed Cora , repulsing her . 
Listen , if you've got to , but let me alone . 
He did too ! He did ! He KNOWS what he said ! I do not ! He does ! He does ! cried Cora . 
He said that I was I was too much interested' in Mr. Corliss . 
Is that an insult' ? the father demanded sharply . 
It was the way he said it , Cora protested , sobbing . 
He meant something he didn't SAY . 
He did ! He did ! He MEANT to insult me ! I did nothing of the kind , shouted the old man . 
I don't know what you're talking about . 
I said I couldn't understand your getting so excited about the fellow's affairs and that you seemed to take a mighty sudden interest in him . 
Well , what if I DO ? she screamed . 
I don't see what all that has to do with it She seemed to leap at him . 
You DON'T ? You DON'T ? No , I don't . 
And I don't see why you're so crazy to please young Corliss about this business unless you're infatuated with him . 
Engaged ! You don't suppose I'll marry him unless I want to , do you ? I will if it suits me . 
I won't if it suits me not to understand that ! I don't consider myself engaged to anybody , and you needn't either . 
What on earth has that got to do with your keeping Richard Lindley from doing what Mr. Corliss wants him to ? I'm not keeping him from anything . 
He didn't say He did ! stormed Cora . 
He said he would if you went into it . 
He told me this afternoon , an hour ago . 
Now wait , said Madison . 
I talked this over with Richard two days ago Cora stamped her foot again in frantic exasperation . 
I'm talking about this afternoon ! Two days ago , he repeated doggedly and we came to the same conclusion it won't do . 
Corliss said he had to ask for an immediate answer , and so Richard told him no , yesterday . 
Oh , my God ! groaned Cora . 
All Mr. Corliss wants is your name . 
It IS important to him ! Richard will do it if you will be secretary of the company he promised me . 
Mr. Corliss told me your name was worth everything here that men said downtown you could have been rich long ago if you hadn't been so square . 
Richard trusts you he says you're the most trusted man in town That's why I can't do it , he interrupted . 
No ! Her vehemence increased suddenly to its utmost . 
No ! Don't you say that , because it's a lie . 
That isn't the reason you won't do it . 
Don't come near me ! she screamed at Laura , and sprang to her feet again , dishevelled and frantic . 
Oh , Christ in heaven ! is there such a thing as happiness in this beast of a world ? I want to leave it . 
Laura caught her , and got her upon the sofa . 
In the hall , Mrs. Madison could be heard running and screaming to Hedrick to go for the doctor . 
Next instant , she burst into the room with brandy and camphor . 
He got very short of breath on the way home he ceased to perspire and became unnaturally dry the air was aflame and the sun shot fire upon his bare head . 
His feet inclined to strange disobediences he walked the last block waveringly . 
A solemn Hedrick met him at the door . 
They've got her to bed , announced the boy . 
Take this ammonia up , said Madison huskily , and sat down upon a lower step of the stairway with a jolt , closing his eyes . 
You sick , too ? asked Hedrick . 
No. Run along with that ammonia . 
It seemed to Madison a long time that he sat there alone , and he felt very dizzy . 
Once he tried to rise , but had to give it up and remain sitting with his eyes shut . 
And you're SURE her heart trouble isn't organic ? she asked . 
Her heart is all right , her companion assured her . 
There's nothing serious the trouble is nervous . 
I think you'll find she'll be better after a good sleep . 
I see , he returned , adding with some dryness I thought it just possible . 
Madison got to his feet , and stepped down from the stairs for them to pass him . 
He leaned heavily against the wall . 
You think she's going to be all right , Sloane ? he asked with an effort . 
No cause to worry , returned the physician . 
You can let her stay in bed to day if she wants to but He broke off , looking keenly at Madison's face , which was the colour of poppies . 
Hello ! what's up with YOU ? I'm all right . 
Oh , you are ? retorted Sloane with sarcasm . 
Sit down , he commanded . 
Sit right where you are on the stairs , here , and , having enforced the order , took a stethoscope from his pocket . 
Get him a glass of water , he said to Hedrick , who was at his elbow . 
Doctor ! exclaimed Mrs. Madison . 
Get his room ready for him . 
She gave him a piteous look , struck with fear then obeyed a gesture and ran flutteringly up the stairs . 
I'm all right now , panted Madison , drinking the water Hedrick brought him . 
You're not so darned all right , said Sloane coolly , as he pocketed his stethoscope . 
Come , let me help you up . 
We're going to get you to bed . 
There was an effort at protest , but the physician had his way , and the two ascended the stairs slowly , Sloane's arm round his new patient . 
At Cora's door , the latter paused . 
What's the matter ? I want , said Madison thickly I want to speak to Cora . 
We'll pass that up just now , returned the other brusquely , and led him on . 
Madison was almost helpless he murmured in a husky , uncertain voice , and suffered himself to be put to bed . 
There , the doctor worked with him cold applications were ordered Laura was summoned from the other sick bed Hedrick sent flying with prescriptions , then to telephone for a nurse . 
The two women attempted questions at intervals , but Sloane replied with orders , and kept them busy . 
Do you think I'm a a pretty sick man , Sloane ? asked Madison after a long silence , speaking with difficulty . 
Oh , you're sick , all right , the doctor conceded . 
I I want to speak to Jennie . 
His wife rushed to the bed , and knelt beside it . 
Don't you go to confessing your sins , said Doctor Sloane crossly . 
You're coming out of the woods all right , and you'll be sorry if you tell her too , much . 
I'll begin a little flirtation with you , Miss Laura , if you please . 
And he motioned to her to follow him into the hall . 
Your father IS pretty sick , he told her , and he may be sicker before we get him into shape again . 
But you needn't be worried right now I think he's not in immediate danger . 
He turned at the sound of Mrs. Madison's step , behind him , and repeated to her what he had just said to Laura . 
I hope your husband didn't give himself away enough to be punished when we get him on his feet again , he concluded cheerfully . 
She shook her head , tried to smile through tears , and , crossing the hall , entered Cora's room . 
She came back after a moment , and , rejoining the other two at her husband's bedside , found the sick man in a stertorous sleep . 
Presently the nurse arrived , and upon the physician's pointed intimation that there were too many people around , Laura went to Cora's room . 
She halted on the threshold in surprise . 
Mamma says the doctor says he's all right , said Cora lightly , and I'm feeling so much better myself I thought I'd put on something loose and go downstairs . 
I think there's more air down there . 
Papa isn't all right , dear , said Laura , staring perplexedly at Cora's idea of something loose , an equipment inclusive of something particularly close . 
The doctor says he is very sick . 
I don't believe it , returned Cora promptly . 
Old Sloane never did know anything . 
Besides , mamma told me he said papa isn't in any danger . 
No immediate' danger , corrected Laura . 
And besides , Doctor Sloane said you were to stay in bed until to morrow . 
Cora went on with her lacing impatiently . 
Lucky thing he didn't I'd have thrown it out of the window . 
Kick that slipper to me , will you , dear ? Laura knelt and put the slipper on her sister's foot . 
She decided that Cora must still be in her own room she would go to her there . 
But as she passed the open front door , she saw Cora upon the sidewalk in front of the house . 
Laura stared at the suddenly vacated space where they had been . 
At a thought she started . 
Then she rushed upstairs to her mother , who was sitting in the hall near her husband's door . 
Mamma , whispered Laura , flinging herself upon her knees beside her , when papa wanted to speak to you , was it a message to Cora ? Yes , dear . 
He told me to tell her he was sorry he'd made her sick , and that if he got well he'd try to do what she asked him to . 
And he WILL get well , darling mother , she said , as she rose . 
I'll come back in a minute and sit with you . 
Doctor Sloane was serious but reassuring , his daily announcement being that his patient was in no immediate danger . 
Mrs. Madison was sure she couldn't get through this experience save for Cora , who was indeed the light of the threatened house . 
Strange perversities of this world Cora's gayety was almost unbearable to her brother . 
She grated upon him he chafed , and his sufferings reached the surface . 
The nurse was present Cora left the table and Hedrick later received a serious warning from Laura . 
She suggested that it might become expedient to place him in Cora's power . 
Cora knows perfectly well that something peculiar happened to you , she advised him . 
And she knows that I know what it was and she says it isn't very sisterly of me not to tell her . 
Now , Hedrick , there was no secret about it you didn't CONFIDE your your trouble to me , and it would be perfectly honourable of me to tell it . 
I wont sic unless you make me , but if you can't be polite and keep peace with Cora at least while papa is sick I think it may be necessary . 
I believe , she finished with imperfect gravity , that it it would keep things quieter . 
The thoughts of a boy may be long , long thoughts , but he cannot persistently remember to fear a threatened catastrophe . 
Youth is too quickly intimate with peril . 
Hedrick had become familiar with his own , had grown so accustomed to it he was in danger of forgetting it altogether therefore it was out of perspective . 
The episode of Lolita had begun to appear as a thing of the distant and clouded past time is so long at thirteen . 
What is there to that ? I never saw her before never saw her again didn't have half as much to do with her as you did yourself . 
She was a lot more YOUR friend than mine I didn't even know her . 
On the contrary , a great weight had lifted from him clearly his defiance had been the proper thing he had shown Laura that her power over him was but imaginary . 
Hypnotized by his own words to her , he believed them and his previous terrors became gossamer nay , they were now merely laughable . 
She looked very meek this morning . 
THAT showed ! The strong hand was the right policy in dealing with women . 
He was tempted to insane daring the rash , unfortunate child waltzed on the lip of the crater . 
Told Cora yet ? he asked , with scornful laughter . 
Told me what ? Cora looked quickly up from her plate . 
Oh , nothing about this Corliss , he returned scathingly . 
Hedrick ! remonstrated his mother , out of habit . 
She never thinks of anything else these days , he retorted . 
It is not the proper implement for decorating the cheeks . 
We all need nourishment , but it is SO difficult when one sees a deposit of breakfast food in the ear of one's vis a vis . 
Hedrick too impulsively felt of his ears and was but the worse stung to find them immaculate and the latter half of the indictment unjustified . 
She let the cup she was lifting drop noisily upon its saucer , and gazed whitely at the boy , her mouth opening wide . 
Oh , no ! he went on , with a dreadful laugh . 
You little liar ! she flashed , and , with a single quick look at her mother , as of one too proud to appeal , left the room . 
Hedrick , Hedrick , Hedrick ! wailed Mrs. Madison . 
And she told me you drove her from the table last night too , right before Miss Peirce ! Miss Peirce was the nurse , fortunately at this moment in the sick room . 
I DID hear her ask him that , he insisted , sullenly . 
Don't you believe it ? Certainly not ! Burning with outrage , he also left his meal unfinished and departed in high dignity . 
Your father managed to talk more last night , said Mrs. Madison pathetically to Laura . 
He made me understand that he was fretting about how little we'd been able to give our children so few advantages it's always troubled him terribly . 
But sometimes I wonder if we've done right we've neither of us ever exercised any discipline . 
We just couldn't bear to . 
Not , she added hastily , not that you aren't all three the best children any mother and father ever had ! HE said so . 
He said the only trouble was that our children were too good for us . 
They were just talking , and perhaps he perhaps he heard something that made him think what he DID . 
not only confirmed this explanation , but repeated in detail the story she had related to Mr. Corliss . 
Hedrick passed a variegated morning among comrades . 
He obtained prestige as having a father like to die , but another boy turned up who had learned to chew tobacco . 
Then Hedrick was pronounced inferior to others in turning cartwheels , but succeeded in a wrestling match for an apple , which he needed . 
He came home at noon with the flush of this victory new upon his brow . 
Ear muffs in style for September , are they ? he inquired in allusion to a symmetrical and becoming undulation upon each side of her head . 
Too bad Ray Vilas can't come any more he'd like those , I know he would . 
Cora , who was talking jauntily to her mother , went on without heeding . 
Charming woman , that dear Mrs. Villard , she prattled . 
I met her downtown this morning . 
Dear mamma , you should but have seen her delight when she saw ME . 
She was but just returned from Bar Harbor Baw hawbaw' ! Poor Hedrick was successfully infuriated immediately . 
She came back early on account of the children having to be sent to school . 
I think he might be a great influence for good if the dear Villards would but sometimes let him associate a little with our unfortunate Hedrick . 
Idiot ! Cora turned toward him innocently . 
Yes , I do ! Oh , no , she said pleasantly . 
Don't you think if I were REALLY an idiot I'd be even fonder of you than I am ? It took his breath . 
His breath came back , and , summoning his presence of mind , he found himself able to consider his position with some degree of assurance . 
Perhaps , after all , Cora's retort had been merely a coincidence . 
He went over and over it in his mind , making a pretence , meanwhile , to be busy with his plate . 
If I were REALLY an idiot . 
It was the REALLY that troubled him . 
But for that one word , he could have decided that her remark was a coincidence but REALLY was ominous had a sinister ring . 
So is it always with the sinner with his sin and its threatened discovery . 
REALLY an idiot ! Did that relentless Comanche , Cora , know this Thing ? He shuddered . 
Then he fell back upon his faith in Providence . 
His heart sank with apprehension . 
Was it coming ? You really must eat , she went on . 
School begins so soon , you must be strong , you know . 
How we shall miss you here at home during your hours of work ! With that , the burden fell from his shoulders , his increasing terrors took wing . 
If Laura had told his ghastly secret to Cora , the latter would not have had recourse to such weak satire as this . 
What would you do to me , she inquired with a terrible sweetness darling little boy ? Hedrick's head swam . 
The blow was square in the face it jarred every bone the world seemed to topple . 
His mother , rising from her chair , choked slightly , and hurried to join the nurse , who was already on her way upstairs . 
Cora sent an affectionate laugh across the table to her stunned antagonist . 
You wouldn't beat me , would you , dear ? she murmured . 
I'm almost sure you wouldn't not if I asked you to kiss me some MORE All doubt was gone , the last hope fled ! The worst had arrived . 
A vision of the awful future flamed across his staggered mind . 
The doors to the arena were flung open the wild beasts howled for hunger of him the spectators waited . 
Cora began lightly to sing . 
I'll sing it for your boy friends next time they come to play in the yard . 
I think they'd like it . 
When they know why you like it so much , I'm sure they will . 
Of course you DO like it you roguish little lover ! A spasm rewarded this demoniacal phrase . 
His sisters had risen to go , and Cora flung her arms round Laura in ecstacy . 
You mean old viper ! she cried . 
You just gave me a chance to protect myself for once , thank heaven ! And she picked up her skirts and danced her way into the front hall . 
I'm afraid , said Laura , following , I shouldn't have done it . 
Oh , Laura , cried the younger girl , I am having the best time , these days ! This just caps it . 
She lowered her voice , but her eyes grew even brighter . 
I think I've shown a certain gentleman a few things he didn't understand ! Who , dear ? Val , returned Cora lightly Valentine Corliss . 
I think he knows a little more about women than he did when he first came here . 
You've had a difference with him ? asked Laura with eager hopefulness . 
You've broken with him ? Oh , Lord , no ! Nothing like that . 
Cora leaned to her confidentially . 
He'd talk about it to me then he'd laugh at me . 
That very Sunday when I got papa to go in But he didn't , said Laura helplessly . 
He only said he'd try to when he gets well . 
It's all the same and it'll be a great thing for him , too , said Cora , gayly . 
Well , that very afternoon before Val left , he practically told me I was no good . 
Of course he didn't use just those words that isn't his way but he laughed at me . 
I believe I could have anything in the world if I tried for it . 
I hope so , if you tried for something good for you , said Laura sadly . 
Cora , dear , you will you will be a little easy on Hedrick , won't you ? Cora leaned against the newel and laughed till she was exhausted . 
Water ! murmured Mr. Trumble , affecting to faint . 
Better not sit down , Ray , continued Trumble , warningly . 
You'll spoil your clothes and you might get a client . 
That word Probate' on the door ain't going to keep 'em out forever . 
You recognize the old place , I s'pose ? You must have been here at least twice since you moved in . 
Somebody told me yesterday he was about the same . 
He's not going to get well . 
How do you know ? Ray spoke quickly . 
People never recover Oh , yes , they do , too . 
Trumble began hotly I beg to dif but checked himself , manifesting a slight confusion . 
That is , I know they don't . 
Old Madison may live a while , if you call that getting well but he'll never be the same man he was . 
Doctor Sloane says it was a bad stroke . 
Says it was induced by heat prostration and excitement . 
Excitement ! he repeated with a sour laugh . 
Yep , I expect a man could get all the excitement he wanted in THAT house , especially if he was her daddy . 
Aha , he muttered , our janitor doesn't drink , I perceive . 
Join me ? Mr. Trumble accepted , and Ray explained , cheerfully Richard Lindley's got me so cowed I'm afraid to go near any of my old joints . 
What's she been doing to YOU , lately ? The little man addressed grew red with the sharp , resentful memory . 
Oh , nothing ! Just struck me in the face with her parasol on the public street , that's all ! He gave an account of his walk to church with Cora . 
I'm through with that girl ! he exclaimed vindictively , in conclusion . 
It was the damnedest thing you ever saw in your life right in broad daylight , in front of the church . 
And she laughed when she did it you'd have thought she was knocking a puppy out of her way . 
She can't do that to me twice , I tell you . 
What the devil do you see to laugh at ? You'll be around , returned his companion , refilling the glasses , asking for more , the first chance she gives you . 
Here's her health ! I don't drink it ! cried Mr. Trumble angrily . 
Cora Madison's seen the last of me , I'll thank you to notice . 
It was a difficult question . 
You wait and see , responded the threatener , feebly . 
She's wild about this Corliss , I tell you , he continued , with renewed vehemence . 
She's crazy about him she's lost her head at last You mean he's going to avenge you ? No , I don't , though he might , if she decided to marry him . 
Do you know , said Ray slowly , glancing over his glass at his nervous companion , it doesn't strike me that Mr. Valentine Corliss has much the air of a marrying man . 
He has the air to ME , observed Mr. Trumble , of a darned bad lot ! But I have to hand it to him he's a wizard . 
You don't really suppose he talked his oil business to her , do you , Trumble ? He must have . 
Else how could she Oh , no , Cora herself never talks upon any subject but one she never listens to any other either . 
Of course he can talk about oil ! He strikes me , said Trumble , as just about the slickest customer that ever hit this town . 
I like Richard Lindley , and I hope he'll see his fifty thousand dollars again . 
I wouldn't have given Corliss thirty cents . 
Why do you think he's a crook ? I don't say that , returned Trumble . 
All I know about him is that he's done some of the finest work to get fifty thousand dollars put in his hands that I ever heard of . 
And all anybody knows about him is that he lived here seventeen years ago , and comes back claiming to know where there's oil in Italy . 
He shows some maps and papers and gets cablegrams signed Moliterno . 
He'll not get a cent if it's sold . 
And he's got Cora Madison so crazy over him that she makes life a hell for poor old Lindley until he puts all he's saved into the bubble . 
The scheme may be all right . 
Not your kind either , retorted the other going to the door . 
She cut me on the street the other day she's quit speaking to me . 
If you've got any money , why don't you take it over to the hotel and give it to Corliss ? She might start speaking to YOU again . 
I'm going to lunch ! He slammed the door behind him . 
Ray Vilas , left alone , elevated his heels to the sill , and stared out of the window a long time at a gravelled roof which presented little of interest . 
Poor little drunkard ! he said aloud . 
Go ahead and do it . 
He was the taller and the robust manliness of his appearance , his splendid health and boxer's figure offered a sharp contrast to the superlatively lean tippler . 
No , said Vilas I won't drink with you . 
He spoke so gently that the form of his refusal , usually interpreted as truculent , escaped the other's notice . 
Parlour , bedroom , and bath , he continued , with a melancholy smile and Lachrymae , and A Reading from Homer . 
Sometimes they have The Music Lesson , or Winter Scene' or A Neapolitan Fisher Lad' instead of Lachrymae , but they always have A Reading from Homer . 
When you opened the door , a moment ago , I had a very strong impression that something extraordinary would some time happen to me in this room . 
Well , suggested Corliss , you refused a drink in it . 
Even more wonderful than that , said Ray , glancing about the place curiously . 
It may be a sense of something painful that already has happened here perhaps long ago , before your occu pancy . 
Most hotel rooms have had something happen in them , said Corliss lightly . 
I believe the managers usually change the door numbers if what happens is especially unpleasant . 
Probably they change some of the rugs , also . 
I feel Ray paused , frowning . 
I feel as if some one had killed himself here . 
Then no doubt some of the rugs HAVE been changed . 
The caller laughed and waved his hand in dismissal of the topic . 
Well , Mr. Corliss , he went on , shifting to a brisker tone , I have come to make my fortune , too . 
Which way do you mean that ? You have been quick , returned the visitor , repaying that glance with equal swiftness , to seize upon the American idiom . 
Contribution , he repeated , with no inflection whatever . 
I mean , of course , how small an investment in your oil company . 
Oh , anything , anything , returned the promoter , with quick amiability . 
We need to sell all the stock we can . 
All the money you can get ? Precisely . 
It's really a colossal proposition , Mr. Vilas . 
Corliss spoke with brisk enthusiasm . 
It's a perfectly certain enormous profit upon everything that goes in . 
Prince Moliterno cables me later investigations show that the oil field is more than twice as large as we thought when I left Naples . 
He's on the ground now , buying up what he can , secretly . 
I had an impression from Richard Lindley that the secret had been discovered . 
Oh , yes but only by a few , and those are trying to keep it quiet from the others , of course . 
Does your partner know of your success in raising a large investment ? You mean Lindley's ? Certainly . 
Corliss waved his hand in light deprecation . 
Still , it counts certainly and of course it will be a great thing for Lindley . 
I fear , Ray said hesitatingly , you won't be much interested in my drop for your bucket . 
I have twelve hundred dollars in the world and it is in the bank I stopped there on my way here . 
To be exact , I have twelve hundred and forty seven dollars and fifty one cents . 
Will you accept so small an investment ? Certainly , said Corliss , laughing . 
Why not ? You may as well profit by the chance as any one . 
I'll send you the stock certificates we put them at par . 
I'm attending to that myself , as our secretary , Mr. Madison , is unable to take up his duties . 
Vilas took a cheque book and a fountain pen from his pocket . 
Oh , any time , any time , said Corliss cheerfully , observing the new investor's movement . 
Now , I think , returned Vilas quietly . 
How shall I make it out ? Oh , to me , I suppose , answered Corliss indifferently . 
That will save a little trouble , and I can turn it over to Moliterno , by cable , as I did Lindley's . 
I'll give you a receipt You need not mind that , said Ray . 
Really it is of no importance . 
Of course the cheque itself is a receipt , remarked Corliss , tossing it carelessly upon a desk . 
You'll have some handsome returns for that slip of paper , Mr. Vilas . 
In that blithe hope I came , said Ray airily . 
I am confident of it . 
I have my own ways of divination , Mr. Corliss . 
He rose as if to go , but stood looking thoughtfully about the apartment again . 
Singular impression , he murmured . 
Not exactly as if I'd seen it in a dream and yet and yet You have symptoms of clairvoyance at times , I take it . 
For that instant , the frailer buck trumpeted challenge . 
Corliss broad shouldered , supple of waist , graceful and strong smiled down negligently yet the very air between the two men seemed charged with an invisible explosive . 
Ray laughed quickly , as in undisturbed good nature then , flourishing his stick , turned toward the door . 
Oh , no , it isn't clairvoyance no more than when I told you that your only real interest is women . 
He paused , his hand upon the door knob . 
I'm a quaint mixture , however perhaps I should be handled with care . 
Very good of you , laughed Corliss this warning . 
The afternoon I had the pleasure of meeting you I think I remember your implying that you were a mere marionette . 
A haggard harlequin ! snapped Vilas , waving his hand to a mirror across the room . 
Don't I look it ? And the phrase fitted him with tragic accuracy . 
You see ? What a merry wedding guest I'll be ! I invite you to join me on the nuptial eve . 
Who's getting married when the nuptial eve ? Ray opened the door , and , turning , rolled his eyes fantastically . 
Haven't you heard ? he cried . 
When Hecate marries John Barleycorn ! He bowed low . 
Corliss stood in the doorway and watched him walk down the long hall to the elevator . 
Corliss closed the door and began to pace his apartment thoughtfully . 
His expression manifested a peculiar phenomenon . 
In company , or upon the street , or when he talked with men , the open look and frank eyes of this stalwart young man were disarming and his most winning assets . 
It was the face of a man uninstructed in mercy it was a shrewd and planning face alert , resourceful , elaborately perceptive , and flawlessly hard . 
But , beyond all , it was the face of a man perpetually on guard . 
He had the air of debating a question , his hands in his pockets , his handsome forehead lined with a temporary indecision . 
The trunk was partially packed as if for departure . 
And , indeed , it was the question of departure which he was debating . 
An inner voice warned him he trusted to it and obeyed it . 
And it had spoken now , and there was his trunk half packed in answer . 
There was a knock at the outer door . 
He frowned , set down what he had in his hands , went to the door and opened it to find Mr. Pryor , that plain citizen , awaiting entrance . 
Corliss remained motionless in an arrested attitude , his hand upon the knob of the opened door . 
His position did not alter he became almost unnaturally still , a rigidity which seemed to increase . 
Then he looked quickly behind him , over his shoulder , and back again , with a swift movement of the head . 
No , said Pryor , at that . 
I just thought I'd have two minutes' talk with you . 
All right ? All right , said Corliss quietly . 
He turned carelessly , and walked away from the door keeping between his guest and the desk . 
Pryor had come in and closed the door . 
I don't know , he began , regarding the other through his glasses , with steady eyes , that I'm going to interfere with you at all , Corliss . 
I just happened to strike you I wasn't looking for you . 
I'm on vacation , visiting my married daughter that lives here , and I don't want to mix in if I can help it . 
There's nothing for you to mix in . 
You couldn't if you wanted to . 
Well , I hope that's true , said Pryor , with an air of indulgence , curiously like that of a teacher for a pupil who promises improvement . 
There isn't anybody I'd like to see turn straight more than you . 
You're educated and cultured , and refined , and smarter than all hell . 
It would be a big thing . 
That's one reason I'm taking the trouble to talk to you . 
I told you I wasn't doing anything , said Corliss with a petulance as oddly like that of a pupil as the other's indulgence was like that of a tutor . 
This is my own town I own property here , and I came here to sell it . 
I can prove it in half a minute's telephoning . 
Where do you come in ? Easy , easy , said Pryor , soothingly . 
I've just told you I don't want to come in at all . 
Then what do you want ? I came to tell you just one thing to go easy up there at Mr. Madison's house . 
That's the property I came here to sell . 
Oh , I know , responded Pryor . 
That part of it's all right . 
But I've seen you several times with that young lady , and you looked pretty thick , to me . 
You know you haven't got any business doing such things , Corliss . 
All right , said the other with a gesture of impatience and you got me once , all right . 
Well , that's over , isn't it ? Have I tried anything since ? Not in that line , said Pryor . 
Well , what business have you with any other line ? demanded Corliss angrily . 
I don't know many people here , and I haven't taken any particular pains to look you up . 
For all I know , you're only here to sell your house , as you say . 
But I know old man Madison a little , and I kind of took a fancy to him he's a mighty nice old man , and he's got a nice family . 
A derisory light showed faintly in the younger man's eyes as he inquired , softly That all , Mr. Pryor ? No. Don't try anything on out here . 
Not in ANY of your lines . 
Sell your house and clear out . 
He went to the door . 
So far as I can see , he observed , ruminatively , you haven't brought any of that Moliterno crowd you used to work with over to this side with you . 
I haven't seen Moliterno for two years , said Corliss , sharply . 
Well , I've said my say . 
Pryor gave him a last word as he went out . 
You keep away from that little girl . 
Ass ! exclaimed Corliss , as the door closed . 
He exhaled a deep breath sharply , and broke into a laugh . 
Then he went quickly into his bedroom and began to throw the things out of his trunk . 
Indian Summer was Indian for him , indeed sweet death were welcome no charity was left in him . 
He leaped no more , but walked broodingly and sought the dark places . 
And Cora never missed a shot she loved the work her pleasure in it was almost as agonizing for the target as was the accuracy of her fire . 
She was ingenious the horrible facts at her disposal were damaging enough in all conscience but they did not content her . 
She formed the habit of never mentioning her brother in his presence except as poor Hedrick , a too obvious commiseration of his pretended attachment which met with like success . 
The most withering of these was , Torn from her I love by the ruthless hand of a parent . 
Hedrick was the only person who had ever used the high hand with Cora she found repayment too congenial . 
One terror still hung over him . 
If it fell as it might at any fatal moment then the utmost were indeed done upon him and this apprehension bathed his soul in night . 
Let these once know what Cora knew . 
Hedrick's eye lighted with a savage gleam timidly the first joy he had known for a thousand years crept into his grim heart . 
After school , Egerton expiated a part of Cora's cruelty . 
It was a very small part , and the exploit no more than infinitesimally soothing to the conqueror , but when Egerton finally got home he was no sight for a mother . 
Thus Hedrick wrought his own doom Mrs. Villard telephoned to Cora , and Cora went immediately to see her . 
It happened to Hedrick that he was late leaving home the next morning . 
His entrance into his classroom was an undeniable sensation , and within ten minutes the teacher had lost all control of the school . 
It became necessary to send for the prin cipal . 
Recess was a frantic nightmare for Hedrick , and his homeward progress at noon a procession of such uproarious screamers as were his equals in speed . 
The humour of childhood is sometimes almost intrusive . 
She said , behind her hand HE KISSED AN IDIOT . 
Laura had not even remotely foreseen the consequences of her revelation , nor , indeed , did she now properly estimate their effect upon Hedrick . 
She and her mother were both sorry for him , and did what they could to alleviate his misfortunes , but there was an inevitable remnant of amusement in their sympathy . 
He brooded profoundly and his brightest thought was revenge . 
It was not upon Cora that his chief bitterness turned . 
And then , in a desperate hour , he remembered her book . 
Therefore , it was some thing peculiarly sacred and intimate . 
This deduction was proved by the care she exercised in keeping the book concealed from all eyes . 
A slow satisfaction began to permeate him he made up his mind to find that padlocked ledger . 
He determined with devoted ardour that when he found it he would make the worst possible use of it the worst , that is , for Laura . 
As for consequences to himself , he was beyond them . 
Hedrick no longer feared anything . 
He felt there was something indirect in the reply but Laura was unsuspicious and showed no disposition to be analytical . 
The ledger remained undiscovered , although probably there has never been a room more thoroughly and painstakingly searched , without its floor being taken up and its walls torn down . 
The most mysterious , and , at the same time , the most maddening thing about it was the apparent simplicity of the task . 
He was certain that the room contained the book listening , barefooted , outside the door at night , he had heard the pen scratching . 
The room was as plain as a room can be , and small . 
There was a scantily filled clothes press he had explored every cubic inch of it . 
There was the small writing table with one drawer it held only some note paper and a box of pen points . 
There was a bureau to his certain knowledge it contained no secret whatever . 
There were a few giltless chairs , and a white wash stand , a mere basin and slab with exposed plumbing . 
The surface of the mattress he knew to be unbroken nevertheless the book was there . 
He had recently stimulated his deductive powers with a narrative of French journalistic sagacity in a similar case and he applied French reasoning . 
It was somewhere in the room . 
He had searched everything except the interior of the mattress . 
The ledger was in that interior . 
The exploration thus become necessary presented some difficulties . 
He must await the right opportunity , and , after a racking exercise of patience , at last he saw it coming . 
Doctor Sloane had permitted his patient to come down stairs for an increasing interval each day . 
Mr. Madison crept , rather than walked , leaning upon his wife and closely attended by Miss Peirce . 
He spoke with difficulty and not clearly still , there was a perceptible improvement , and his family were falling into the habit of speaking of him as almost well . 
On that account , Mrs. Madison urged her daughters to accept an invitation from the mother of the once courtly Egerton Villard . 
It was at breakfast that the matter was discussed . 
Of course Cora must go , Laura began , but But nothing ! interrupted Cora . 
Besides , she added sweetly , we ought to go to show Mrs. Villard we aren't hurt because Egerton takes so little notice of poor Hedrick . 
Hedrick's lips moved silently , as in prayer . 
I'd rather not , said Laura . 
I doubt if I'd have a very good time . 
You would , too , returned her sister , decidedly . 
The men like to dance with you you dance every bit as well as I do , and that black lace is the most becoming dress you ever had . 
Nobody ever remembers a black dress , anyway , unless it's cut very conspicuously , and yours isn't . 
I can't go without you they love to say nasty things about me , and you're too good a sister to give 'em this chance , you old dear . 
She laughed and nodded affectionately across the table at Laura . 
You've got to go ! Yes , it would be nicer , said the mother . 
And so it was settled . 
It was simultaneously settled in Hedrick's mind that the night of the dance should mark his discovery of the ledger . 
He would have some industrious hours alone with the mysterious mattress , safe from intrusion . 
Meekly he lifted his eyes from his plate . 
I'm glad you're going , sister Laura , he said in a gentle voice . 
I think a change will do you good . 
Isn't it wonderful , exclaimed Cora , appealing to the others to observe him , what an improvement a disappointment in love can make in deportment ? For once , Hedrick only smiled . 
CHAPTER FIFTEEN Laura had spent some thoughtful hours upon her black lace dress with results that astonished her family it became a ball gown and a splendidly effective one . 
She arranged her dark hair in a more elaborate fashion than ever before , in a close coronal of faintly lustrous braids she had no jewellery and obviously needed none . 
Mrs. Madison , almost weeping with delight , led her daughters proudly , an arm round the waist of each , into her husband's room . 
Propped with pillows , he reclined in an armchair while Miss Peirce prepared his bed , an occupation she gave over upon this dazzling entrance , departing tactfully . 
Isn't she adorable ! Cora exclaimed warmly . 
And do you see Cora's crescent ? demanded Mrs. Madison . 
They look precisely like stones of the very finest water . 
They're both smart girls , said Madison , both of them . 
And they look beautiful , to night both . 
Don't worry , Jim , she whispered . 
Those bright , beautiful things ! aren't they treasures ? It's it's Laura , he said . 
Cora will be all right . 
She looks out for herself . 
I'm I'm afraid for Laura . 
Aren't you ? No , no , she protested . 
I'm not afraid for either of them . 
But she was the mother had always been afraid for Cora . 
She placed her hand upon the sleeve of Richard Lindley , and , glancing intelligently over his shoulder into the eyes of Valentine Corliss , glided rhythmically away . 
People looked at her they always did . 
Not only the non dancers watched her eyes everywhere were upon her , even though the owners gyrated , glided and dipped on distant orbits . 
Many of them kept somewhat aloof from her but none of them ever nowadays showed superiority in her presence , or snubbed her that had been tried and proved disastrous in rebound . 
Cora never failed to pay her score and with a terrifying interest added , her native tendency being to take two eyes for an eye and the whole jaw for a tooth . 
The men splash about on the surface the women keep their eyes open under water . 
Or , the life of the assembly is like a bright tapestry the men take it as a picture and are not troubled to know how it is produced but women are weavers . 
The pair radiated the pardonable , gay importance of newly engaged people , and Cora , who had never before bestowed any notice upon Mr. Wattling , now examined him with thoughtful attention . 
Finding him at her elbow in a group about a punch bowl , between dances , she offered warm felicitations . 
She seemed to be concealing with bravery an even deeper feeling than the one inadvertently expressed . 
Why , what on earth makes you think that ? he exclaimed . 
Think it ? I KNOW it ! She gave him a strange look , luminous yet mysterious , a curtain withdrawn only to show a shining mist with something undefined but dazzling beyond . 
I've always known it ! And she turned away from him abruptly . 
I've never Oh , yes , you have . 
They danced several times together , and Mr. Wattling's expression was serious . 
The weavers of the tapestry smiled and whispered things the men would not have understood nor believed . 
Ray Vilas , seated alone in a recessed and softly lighted gallery , did not once lose sight of the flitting sorceress . 
And something very like a general thrill passed over the assembly when , a little later , it was seen that he was dancing with her . 
Laura , catching a glimpse of this couple , started and looked profoundly disturbed . 
She sank into the chair he offered , and , fixing her eyes upon a small lamp of coloured glass which hung overhead , ostentatiously looked bored . 
At your feet , Cora , he said , seating himself upon a stool , and leaning toward her . 
Isn't it appropriate that we should talk to music we two ? It shouldn't be that quick step though not dance music should it ? Don't know 'm sure , murmured Cora . 
You were kind to dance with me , he said huskily . 
I dared to speak to you She did not change her attitude nor the direction of her glance . 
I couldn't cut you very well with the whole town looking on . 
I'm tired of being talked about . 
Besides , I don't care much who I dance with so he doesn't step on me . 
Cora , he said , it is the prelude to L'Arlesienne' that they should play for you and me . 
Yes , I think it should be that . 
It's just a rustic tragedy , the story of a boy in the south of France who lets love become his whole life , and then it kills him . 
Sounds very stupid , she commented languidly . 
People do sometimes die of love , even nowadays , he said , tremulously in the South . 
Her eyes returned to the lamp . 
You're from the South , and of course it's going to kill you . 
You didn't speak the exact words you had in your mind . 
Oh , what words did I have in my mind' ? she asked impatiently . 
What you really meant was If it does kill you , what of it ? She laughed , and sighed as for release . 
Cora , he said huskily , I understand you a little because you possess me . 
I've never literally never had another thought since the first time I saw you nothing but you . 
I think of you actually every moment . 
You own me you burn like a hot coal in my heart . 
You're through with me , I know . 
You're like a child who eats so heartily of what he likes that he never touches it again . 
And I'm a dish you're sick of . 
Oh , it's all plain enough , I can tell you . 
I'm not exciting any more no , just a nauseous slave ! Do you want people to hear you ? she inquired angrily , for his voice had risen . 
Cora , when you liked me you went a pretty clipping gait with me , he said , trembling even more than before . 
But you're infinitely more infatuated with this Toreador of a Corliss than you were with me you're lost in him you're slaving for him as I would for you . 
How far are you going with Do you want me to walk away and leave you ? she asked , suddenly sitting up straight and looking at him with dilating eyes . 
If you want a scene' It's over , he said , more calmly . 
I know now how dangerous the man is . 
Of course you will tell him I said that . 
Not after what you've said . 
I had a foolish idea you could behave well , at least decently . 
Did Corliss tell you that I insulted him in his rooms at the hotel ? You ! She laughed , genuinely . 
I see him letting you ! He did , however . 
By manner and in speech I purposely and deliberately insulted him . 
You'll tell him every word of this , of course , and he'll laugh at it , but I give myself the pleasure of telling you . 
I put the proposition of an investment' to him in a way nobody not a crook would have allowed to be smoothed over and he allowed it to be smoothed over . 
Finished raving ? she inquired . 
I gave Corliss a thousand dollars , he said , slowly . 
Considering the fact that it was my last , I flatter myself it was not unhandsomely done though I may never need it . 
We do one thing in the South , where I came from . 
We protect our women This looks like it ! Keeping me when I love you , he said , his face whiter than she had ever seen it . 
I love you ! I'm your dog ! You take care of yourself if you want to take care of anybody else ! As sure as My dance , Miss Madison . 
I thought it would never come , you know but it's here at last and so am I. He laughed propitiatingly . 
Ray yielded now at once . 
She moved him aside with her gloved forearm as if he were merely an awkward stranger who unwittingly stood between her and the claiming partner . 
Carrying the gesture farther , she took the latter's arm , and smilingly , and without a backward glance , passed onward and left the gallery . 
Then without any fatiguing preamble , he proposed marriage . 
Cora did not accept , but effected a compromise , which , for the present , was to consist of an exchange of photographs and letters . 
She was having an evening to her heart . 
He was visibly making an impression . 
He caused plenty of flutter . 
Cora waited till the evening was half over before she gave him any visible attention . 
Cora gave him no greeting whatever she dismissed her former partner and carelessly turned away with Corliss to some chairs in a corner . 
Do you see that ? asked Vilas , leaning over the balcony railing with Richard Lindley . 
He doesn't dance she'll sit out with him now , till they all read the tag she's put on him . 
She says she hates being talked about . 
She lives on it ! so long as it's envious . 
And did you see her with that chap from the navy ? Neptune thinks he's dallying with Venus perhaps , but he'll get Lindley looked at him commiseratingly . 
I think I never saw prettier decorations . 
Have you noticed , Ray ? Must have used a thousand chrysanthemums . 
Yes , I did think of that . 
Yes , I thought of it . 
But you didn't do it . 
No. That is , I haven't yet . 
You see , Corliss explained to me that His friend interrupted him with a sour laugh . 
Poor old Dick ! returned Vilas compassionately . 
You kind , easy , sincere men are so conscientiously untruthful with yourselves . 
You'd sigh and go to work again , beginning at the beginning where you were years ago , and doing it all over . 
He may be safe on the legal side . 
I'll know more about that when I find out if there is a Prince Moliterno in Naples who owns land in Basilicata . 
You don't doubt it ? I doubt everything ! In this particular matter I'll have less to doubt when I get an answer from the consul general . 
I 've written , you see . 
You have ? Vilas read him at a glance . 
You're afraid to find out ! he cried . 
Then he set his hand on the other's shoulder . 
If there ever was a God's fool , it's you , Dick Lindley . 
Really , I wonder the world hasn't kicked you around more than it has you'd never kick back ! You're as easy as an old shoe . 
There's a continuous supper downstairs and I hear it's very good . 
Ray smiled , rescued for a second from himself . 
There isn't anything better than your heart , you old window pane , and I'm glad you don't eat it . 
Ray drew Lindley's attention to this tableau of pain . 
Here's a three of us ! he said . 
He turned to look down into the rhythmic kaleidoscope of dancers . 
And there goes the girl we all OUGHT to be morbid about . 
Who is that ? Laura Madison . 
Why aren't we ? What a self respecting creature she is , with that cool , sweet steadiness of hers she's like a mountain lake . 
She's lovely and she plays like an angel , but so far as anybody's ever thinking about her is concerned she might almost as well not exist . 
Yet she's really beautiful to night , if you can manage to think of her except as a sort of retinue for Cora . 
She IS rather beautiful to night . 
I've noticed there are times when she'll scarcely speak at all for half an hour , or even more . 
You're not precisely noisy yourself , said Ray . 
Have you danced with her this evening ? Why , no , returned the other , in a tone which showed this omission to be a discovery not yet . 
I must , of course . 
Yes , she's really rather' beautiful . 
Also , she dances rather' better than any other girl in town . 
Go and perform your painful duty . 
Perhaps I'd better , said Richard thoughtfully , not perceiving the satire . 
At any rate , I'll ask her for the next . 
There came to Laura's face an April change as he approached , and she saw he meant to ask her to dance . 
And , as they swam out into the maelstrom , he noticed it , and remarked that it WAS rather warm , to which she replied by a cheerful nod . 
She laughed again at that , and they danced on , not talking . 
A flash of dazed incredulity from her dark eyes swept him there was something in it of the child dodging an unexpected blow . 
Did I trip you ? he asked anxiously . 
No , she laughed , quickly , and her cheeks grew even redder . 
Wasn't that too bad just when you were thinking that I danced well ! Let's sit down . 
May we ? They went to some chairs against a wall . 
There , as they sat , Cora swung by them , dancing again with her lieutenant , and looking up trancedly into the gallant eyes of the triumphant and intoxicated young man . 
Visibly , she was a woman with a suitor's embracing arm about her . 
Ah , don't ! said Laura in a low voice . 
Don't what ? I didn't mean to speak out loud , she said tremulously . 
But I meant don't look so troubled . 
It doesn't mean anything at all her coquetting with that bird of passage . 
He's going away in the morning . 
I don't think I was troubling about that . 
Well , whatever it was she paused , and laughed with a plaintive timidity why , just don't trouble about it ! Do I look very much troubled ? he asked seriously . 
And you don't look very gay when you're not ! She laughed with more assurance now . 
I think you're always the wistfulest looking man I ever saw . 
Everybody laughs at me , I believe , he said , with continued seriousness . 
Even Ray Vilas thinks I'm an utter fool . 
Am I , do YOU think ? He turned as he spoke and glanced inquiringly into her eyes . 
What he saw surprised and dismayed him . 
For heaven's sake , don't cry ! he whispered hurriedly . 
She bent her head , turning her face from him . 
I've been very hopeful lately , he said . 
Cora has been so kind to me since I did what she wanted me to , that I He gave a deep sigh . 
But if you're THAT sorry for me , my chances with her must be pretty desperate . 
She did not alter her attitude , but with her down bent face still away from him , said huskily It isn't you I'm sorry for . 
You mustn't ever give up you must keep on trying and trying . 
If you give up , I don't know what will become of her ! A moment later she rose suddenly to her feet . 
Let's finish our dance , she said , giving him her hand . 
I'm sure I won't stumble again . 
At their age it is proper that a gayety be used three times in anticipation , and actually , and in after rehearsal . 
The last was of course now in order they went to Laura's room to talk it over . 
Mother never leaves the lamp lit for me she's always so afraid of lamps exploding . 
Oh , Laura , wasn't he gorgeous . 
But , oh , Laura , wasn't he beautiful to look at ! Do you think he's more beautiful than Val ? No don't tell me if you do . 
I don't want to hear it ! Val was so provoking he didn't seem to mind it at all . 
He's nothing but a big brute sometimes he wouldn't even admit that he minded , when I asked him . 
I was idiot enough to ask I couldn't help it he was so tantalizing and exasperating laughing at me . 
I never knew anybody like him he's so sure of himself and he can be so cold . 
Sometimes I wonder if he really cares about anything , deep down in his heart anything except himself . 
It would look silly on such a little goat as that Wade Trumble , though nothing could make him look like a whole man . 
Val thinks Wade would come in yet , if I'D only get him in the mood to have another talk with Val about it but the spiteful little rat wouldn't come near me . 
I believe that was one of the reasons Val laughed at me and pretended not to mind my getting proposed to . 
He MUST have minded he couldn't have helped minding it , really . 
That's his way he's so MEAN he won't show things . 
I can't keep anything from him he reads ME like a signboard and then about himself he keeps me guessing , and I can't tell when I've guessed right . 
Ray Vilas behaved disgustingly , of course he was horrid and awful . 
I might have expected it . 
I suppose Richard was wailing HIS tiresome sorrows on your poor shoulder No , said Laura . 
He seemed glad you were having a good time . 
He didn't look particularly cheerful at me . 
I never saw so slow a man I wonder when he's going to find out about that pendant . 
Val would have seen it the instant I put it on . 
Oh , Cora , protested Laura , no ! Please don't ! I've promised so I'll have to , now . 
It'll do Mary Kane good . 
Oh , I'm not going to bother much with HIM he makes me tired . 
I never saw anything so complacent as that girl when she came in to night , as if her little Georgie was the greatest capture the world had ever seen . 
Laura , passive , listened with a thoughtful expression , somewhat preoccupied . 
The talker yawned at last . 
It must be after three , she said , listlessly , having gone over her evening so often that the colours were beginning to fade . 
Laura , she remarked absently , I don't see how you can sleep in this bed it sags so . 
I've never noticed it , said her sister . 
It's a very comfortable old bed . 
Cora went to her to be unfastened , reverting to the lieutenant during the operation , and kissing the tire woman warmly at its conclusion . 
You're always so sweet to me , Laura , she said affectionately . 
I don't know how you manage it . 
You're so good she laughed sometimes I wonder how you stand me . 
It was very late , but Laura wrote for almost an hour in her book before she felt drowsy . 
Then she extinguished the lamp , put the book away and got into bed . 
There was a crash , and a choked yell from a muffled voice somewhere , as the bed gave way . 
For an instant , Laura fought wildly in an entanglement of what she insufficiently perceived to be springs , slats and bedclothes with something alive squirming underneath . 
She cleared herself and sprang free , screaming , but even in her fright she remembered her father and clapped her hand over her mouth that she might keep from screaming again . 
She dove at the door , opened it , and fled through the hall to Cora's room , still holding her hand over her mouth . 
Cora ! Oh , Cora ! she panted , and flung herself upon her sister's bed . 
Cora was up instantly and had lit the gas in a trice . 
There's a burglar ! Laura contrived to gasp . 
In my room ! Under the bed ! What ! I fell on him ! Something's the matter with the bed . 
I fell on him ! Cora stared at her wide eyed . 
Why , it can't be . 
Think how long I was in there . 
Your bed broke , and you just thought there was some one there . 
No , no , no ! wailed Laura . 
I HEARD him he gave a kind of dreadful grunt . 
Are you sure ? SURE ? He wriggled oh ! I could FEEL him ! Cora seized a box of matches again . 
I'm going to find out . 
Oh , no , no ! protested Laura , cowering . 
If there's a burglar in the house I'm going to find him ! We mustn't wake papa . 
No , nor mamma either . 
That wouldn't wake papa , of course ! If we had a telephone I'd send for the police but we haven't . 
I'm going to see if there's any one there . 
Cora lighted matches with a perfectly steady hand she hesitated on the threshold of Laura's room no more than a moment , then lit the lamp . 
Laura stifled a shriek at sight of the bed . 
Look , look ! she gasped . 
There's no one under it now , that's certain , said Cora , and boldly lifted a corner of it . 
Why , it's been cut all to pieces from underneath ! You're right there was some one here . 
He must have thought the silver was hidden there . 
Oh , oh , oh ! moaned Laura . 
He WRIGGLED ugh ! Cora picked up the lamp . 
Well , we've got to go over the house No , no ! Hush ! I'll go alone then . 
I will , though ! The two girls had changed places in this emergency . 
In her fright Laura was dependent , clinging actual contact with the intruder had unnerved her . 
It took all her will to accompany her sister upon the tour of inspection , and throughout she cowered behind the dauntless Cora . 
It was the first time in their lives that their positions had been reversed . 
Cora had not boasted in vain of her bravery in truth , she was not afraid of any man . 
They found the fastenings of the doors secure and likewise those of all the windows , until they came to the kitchen . 
There , the cook had left a window up , which plausibly explained the marauder's mode of ingress . 
Then , at Cora's insistence , and to Laura's shivering horror , they searched both cellar and garret , and concluded that he had escaped by the same means . 
They finally retired , Laura sleeping with her sister , and Cora had begun to talk of the lieutenant again , instead of the burglar , before Laura fell asleep . 
Mrs. Madison and Miss Peirce were warm in admiration of their bravery , but in the same breath condemned it as foolhardy . 
I never knew such wonderful girls ! exclaimed the mother , almost tearfully . 
I'm a hopeless , disgusting coward . 
I never knew what a coward I was before . 
Cora carried the lamp and went ahead like a drum major . 
I just trailed along behind her , ready to shriek and run or faint ! Could you tell anything about him when you fell on him ? inquired Miss Peirce . 
What was his voice like when he shouted ? Choked . 
It was a horrible , jolted kind of cry . 
Could you tell anything about whether he was a large man , or small , or Only that he seemed very active . 
He seemed to be kicking . 
He WRIGGLED ugh ! They evolved a plausible theory of the burglar's motives and line of reasoning . 
Then he came upstairs , and was afraid to come into any of the rooms where we were . 
He could tell which rooms had people in them by hearing us breathing through the keyholes . 
He finds two rooms empty , and probably he made a thorough search of Miss Cora's first . 
But he isn't after silver toilet articles and pretty little things like that . 
Then Miss Cora and Miss Laura come in so quietly not wanting to wake anybody that he doesn't hear them , and he gets caught there . 
That's the way it must have been . 
But why , Mrs. Madison inquired of this authority , why do you suppose he lit the lamp ? To see by , answered the ready Miss Peirce . 
It was accepted as final . 
Further discussion was temporarily interrupted by the discovery that Hedrick had fallen asleep in his chair . 
Don't bother him , Cora , said his mother . 
He's finished eating let him sleep a few minutes , if he wants to , before he goes to school . 
He's not at all well . 
He played too hard , yesterday afternoon , and hurt his knee , he said . 
He came down limping this morning and looking very badly . 
He oughtn't to run and climb about the stable so much after school . 
See how utterly exhausted he looks ! Not even this excitement can keep him awake . 
I think we must be careful not to let Mr. Madison suspect anything about the burglar , said Miss Peirce . 
It would be bad for him . 
Laura began But we ought to notify the police Police ! Hedrick woke so abruptly , and uttered the word with such passionate and vehement protest , that everybody started . 
It wouldn't do at all . 
I should think not ! I'm glad , continued Hedrick , truthfully , THAT idea's out of your head ! I believe Laura imagined the whole thing anyway . 
Have you looked at her mattress , inquired Cora , darling little boy ? He gave her a concentrated look , and rose to leave . 
Nothin' on earth but imagina He stopped with a grunt as he forgetfully put his weight on his left leg . 
He rubbed his knee , swallowed painfully , and , leaving the word unfinished , limped haughtily from the room . 
He left the house , gloomily swinging his books from a spare length of strap , and walking with care to ease his strains and bruises as much as possible . 
He was very low in his mind , that boy . 
His fortunes had reached the ebb tide , but he had no hope of a rise . 
He had no hope of anything . 
He had been truant a full fortnight , under brighter circumstances a matter for a lawless pride now he had neither fear nor vainglory . 
There was no room in him for anything but dejection . 
Emerging , wholly soiled , into a box stall , he crossed the musty carriage house and ascended some rickety steps to a long vacant coachman's room , next to the hayloft . 
He closed the door , bolted it , and sank moodily upon a broken , old horsehair sofa . 
This apartment was his studio . 
The walls were rather over decorated in coloured chalks , the man headed snake motive predominating they were also loopholed for firing into the hayloft . 
The gloomy eye of Hedrick wandered to The Mystery of the Count's Bedroom , and remained fixed upon it moodily and contemptuously . 
He had not essayed the attempt upon the mattress until assured that the house was wrapped in slumber . 
Then , with hope in his heart , he had stolen to Laura's room , lit the lamp , feeling safe from intrusion , and set to work . 
His implement at first was a long hatpin of Cora's . 
This was not more puzzling than it was infuriating , since by all processes of induction , deduction , and pure logic , the thing was necessarily there . 
When he woke , his sisters were in the room , and he thought it advisable to remain where he was , though he little realized how he had weakened his shelter . 
The scratching sound of a pen followed . 
And yet she had not come near the bed . 
The mattress , then , was a living lie . 
With infinite caution he had moved so that he could see her , arriving at a coign of vantage just as she closed the book . 
He heard her moving but could not tell where , except that it was not in his part of the room . 
Then a faint shuffling warned him that she was approaching the bed , and he withdrew his head to avoid being stepped upon . 
The next moment the world seemed to cave in upon him . 
Hedrick glared at The Mystery of the Count's Bedroom . 
By and by he got up , brought the book to the sofa and began to read it over . 
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN The influence of a familiar and sequestered place is not only soothing the bruised mind may often find it restorative . 
Thus Hedrick , in his studio , surrounded by his own loved bric a brac , began to feel once more the stir of impulse . 
Two hours' reading inspired him . 
could do , an American youth in full possession of his powers except for a strained knee and other injuries could do . 
Yes , and would ! He evolved a new chain of reasoning . 
The ledger had been seen in Laura's room it had been heard in her room it appeared to be kept in her room . 
But it was in no single part of the room . 
All the parts make a whole . 
Therefore , the book was not in the room . 
On the other hand , Laura had not left the room when she took the book from its hiding place . 
This was confusing therefore he determined to concentrate logic solely upon what she had done with the ledger when she finished writing in it . 
No the question he must keep in was What did she do with it ? Laura had not left the room . 
But the book had left the room . 
Arrived at this inevitable deduction , he sprang to his feet in a state of repressed excitement and began to pace the floor like a hound on the trail . 
Laura had not left the room , but the book had left the room he must keep his mind upon this point . 
He uttered a loud exclamation and struck the zinc table top a smart blow with his clenched fist . 
What are you doing here ? Here ? Evidently she puzzled him . 
I want to know what you are doing . 
Just standing here , he explained in a meek , grieved way . 
But why aren't you at school ? This recalled what he had forgotten , and he realized the insecurity of his position . 
Oh , yes , he said school . 
Did you ask me Didn't you go to school ? He began to speak rapidly . 
She must have been pretty sick , she looked so pale They dismissed the class ? And I don't have to go to morrow either . 
I see , said his mother . 
But if you feel ill , Hedrick , hadn't you better come in and lie down ? I think it's kind of passing off . 
The fresh air seems to be doing me good . 
Be careful of your sore knee , dear . 
She closed the window , and he was left to continue his operations in safety . 
Laura had thrown the ledger out of the window that was proved absolutely . 
Obviously , she had come down before daylight and retrieved it . 
Or , she had not . 
Proceeding on the assumption that she had not , he lifted his eyes and searched the air . 
Triumph shown again from the shrewd countenance of the sleuth Laura must have slid the ledger along a wire into a hollow branch . 
However , no wire was to be seen and the shrewd countenance of the sleuth fell . 
But perhaps she had constructed a device of silk threads , invisible from below , which carried the book into the tree . 
Action ! He climbed carefully but with many twinges , finally pausing in a parlous situation not far from the mysterious window which Laura had opened the night before . 
A comprehensive survey of the tree revealed only the very patent fact that none of the branches was of sufficient diameter to conceal the ledger . 
No silk threads came from the window . 
He looked and looked and looked at that window then his eye fell a little , halted less than three feet below the window ledge , and the search was ended . 
Upon this ledge lay the book , wrapped in its oil skin covering and secured from falling by a piece of broken iron hooping , stuck in the mortar of the bricks . 
It could be seen from nowhere save an upper window of the house next door , or from the tree itself , and in either case only when the leaves had fallen . 
Laura had felt very safe . 
To get the book one had only to lean from the window . 
Hedrick seemed so ill during lunch that his mother spoke of asking Doctor Sloane to look at him , if he did not improve before evening . 
Hedrick said meekly that perhaps that would be best if he did not improve . 
His mother put a rug over him Hedrick , thanking her touchingly , closed his eyes and she went away , leaving him to slumber . 
After a time , Laura came into the room on an errand , walking noiselessly , and , noticing that his eyes were open , apologized for waking him . 
Never mind , he returned , in the tone of an invalid . 
I think there's something the matter inside my head I have such terrible dreams . 
I guess maybe it's better for me to keep awake . 
I'm kind of afraid to go to sleep . 
You haven't any fever , dear that's good . 
You'll be all right to morrow . 
Would you like me to read to you ? I believe , he answered , plaintively , reading might kind of disturb my mind my brain feels so sort of restless and queer . 
I'd rather play some kind of game . 
Cards ? No , not cards exactly . 
Something' I can do lying down . 
Oh , I know ! You remember the one where we drew pictures and the others had to guess what they were ? Well , I've invented a game like that . 
You sit down at the desk over there and take some sheets of paper . 
I'll tell you the rest . 
What next ? Now , I'll describe some people and where they live and not tell who they are , and you see if you can guess their names and addresses . 
Addresses , too ? Yes , because I'm going to describe the way their houses look . 
Write each name on a separate sheet of paper , and the number of their house below it if you know it , and if you don't know it , just the street . 
If it's a woman put Miss' or Mrs. before their name and if it's a man write Esquire' after it . 
Is all that necessary for the game ? It's the way I invented it and I think you might Oh , all right , she acquiesced , good naturedly . 
It shall be according to your rules . 
Then afterward , you give me the sheets of paper with the names and addresses written on 'em , and we we He hesitated . 
What do we do then ? I'll tell you when we come to it . 
But when that stage of his invention was reached , and Laura had placed the inscribed sheets in his hand , his interest had waned , it appeared . 
Also , his condition had improved . 
I thought this game would be more exciting , he said , sitting up . 
I guess , he added with too much modesty , I'm not very good at inventing games . 
I b'lieve I'll go out to the barn I think the fresh air Do you feel well enough to go out ? she asked . 
You do seem to be all right , though . 
Yes , I'm a lot better , I think . 
He limped to the door . 
The fresh air will be the best thing for me . 
She did not notice that he carelessly retained her contributions to the game , and he reached his studio with them in his hand . 
Hedrick had entered the 'teens and he was a reader things in his head might have dismayed a Borgia . 
No remotest glimpse entered that head of the enormity of what he did . 
Now he had the means , as he believed , to even the score with both sisters at a stroke . 
To him it was turning a tremendous and properly scathing joke upon them . 
That evening , as Richard Lindley sat at dinner with his mother , Joe Varden temporarily abandoned his attendance at the table to answer the front doorbell . 
Upon his return , he remarked Messenger boy mus' been in big hurry . 
Wouldn' wait till I git to door . 
What was it ? asked Richard . 
Least , I reckon it were a boy . 
Call' back from the front walk , say he couldn' wait . 
Say he lef' package in vestibule . 
What sort of a package ? Middle size kind o' big package . 
Why don't you see what it is , Richard ? Mrs. Lindley asked of her son . 
Bring it to the table , Joe . 
When it was brought , Richard looked at the superscription with surprise . 
The wrapper was of heavy brown paper , and upon it a sheet of white notepaper had been pasted , with the address Richard Lindley , Esq . 
It's from Laura Madison , he said , staring at this writing . 
What in the world would Laura be sending me ? You might possibly learn by opening it , suggested his mother . 
I've seen men puzzle over the outside of things quite as often as women . 
Laura Madison is a nice girl . 
She never volunteered similar praise of Laura Madison's sister . 
Mrs. Lindley had submitted to her son's plans concerning Cora , lately confided but her submission lacked resignation . 
It's a book , said Richard , even more puzzled , as he took the ledger from its wrappings . 
Two little torn places at the edge of the covers . 
Looks as if it had once had clasps Perhaps it's the Madison family album , Mrs. Lindley suggested . 
Pictures of Cora since infancy . 
I imagine she's had plenty taken . 
No. He opened the book and glanced at the pages covered in Laura's clear , readable hand . 
No , it's about half full of writing . 
Laura must have turned literary . 
He read a line or two , frowning mildly . 
My soul ! I believe it's a novel ! She must think I'm a critic to want me to read it . 
Smiling at the idea , he closed the ledger . 
I'll take it upstairs to my hang out after dinner , and see if Laura's literary manner has my august approval . 
Who in the world would ever have thought she'd decide to set up for a writer ? I imagine she might have something to write worth reading , said his mother . 
I've always thought she was an interesting looking girl . 
She dances well , too . 
Of course , continued Mrs. Lindley , thoughtfully , she seldom SAYS anything interesting , but that may be because she so seldom has a chance to say anything at all . 
Richard refused to perceive this allusion . 
Curious that Laura should have sent it to me , he said . 
She's never seemed interested in my opinion about anything . 
I don't recall her ever speaking to me on any subject whatever except one . 
He returned his attention to his plate , but his mother did not appear to agree with him that the topic was exhausted . 
Except one' ? she repeated , after waiting for some time . 
Yes , he replied , in his habitual preoccupied and casual tone . 
Not more than two , I should say and in a way you'd call that only one , of course . 
What two , Richard ? Cora , he said , with gentle simplicity , and me . 
The first page displayed no more than a date now eighteen months past , and the line Love came to me to day . 
The next page was dated the next day , and , beneath , he read That was all I COULD write , yesterday . 
I think I was too excited to write . 
Something seemed to be singing in my breast . 
I couldn't think in sentences not even in words . 
It shall be YOUR book . 
I shall keep it sacred to You and write to You in it . 
People who expect nothing are never disappointed I must keep that in mind . 
We really know so little what we think our minds are going on all the time and we hardly notice them . 
I saw You yesterday ! It seems to me the strangest thing in the world . 
I've seen you by chance , probably two or three times a month nearly all my life , though you so seldom come here to call . 
And this time wasn't different from dozens of other times you were just standing on the corner by the Richfield , waiting for a car . 
It struck him that Laura had been writing very odd Stuff , but interesting and certainly it was not a story . 
Richard , disturbed by an incredible idea , read these last words over and then dismissed the notion as nonsense . 
While you'd been in mourning for your brother and it struck me that light gray was becoming to you . 
Then such a queer thing happened I felt the great kindness of your eyes . 
I love you ! How different everything is now from everything before . 
Music means what it never did Life has leaped into blossom for me . 
Everywhere there is colour and radiance that I had never seen the air is full of perfume . 
The years until yesterday are gray no , not gray , because that was the colour You were wearing not gray , because that is a beautiful colour . 
The empty years until yesterday had no colour at all . 
Yes , the world has meaning only through loving , and without meaning there is no real life . 
We live only by loving , and now that this gift of life has come to me I love ALL the world . 
I feel that I must be so kind , kind , KIND to EVERYBODY ! Such an odd thing struck me as my greatest wish . 
The women of the different churches made his clothes , as they did their husbands' and brothers . 
She's often so angry with Ray , poor girl . 
It does not seem to me that she and Ray really belong to each other , though they SAY so often that they do . 
Richard having read thus far with a growing , vague uneasiness , looked up , frowning . 
He hoped Laura had no Marie Bashkirtseff idea of publishing this manuscript . 
It was too intimate , he thought , even if the names in it were to be disguised . 
Though they SAY so often that they do . 
I think Ray is in love with HER , but it can't be like THIS . 
What he feels must be something wholly different there is violence and wildness in it . 
And they are bitter with each other so often always getting even' for something . 
He does care he is frantically IN love with her , undoubtedly , but so insanely jealous . 
I suppose all jealousy is insane . 
But love is the only sanity . 
How can what is insane be part of it ? I could not be jealous of You . 
I owe life to you I have never lived till now . 
The next writing was two days later . 
It was like getting back after a journey , and for a second I was a little dazed , and Cora kept on laughing at me , and I felt myself getting red . 
I made some silly excuse about thinking your house had been repainted and she laughed louder than ever . 
It is a GUARDIAN feeling that I must keep for myself , the music of these angels singing in my heart singing of You . 
I hope she did not understand and I so fear she did . 
Why should I be so AFRAID ? . 
It seemed too much happiness and risking too much to let myself BELIEVE it , but I couldn't help just wondering . 
I don't know how I found voice to greet you . 
I didn't seem to have any breath left at all . 
I was so relieved when Cora took a chair between us and began to talk to you , because I'm sure I couldn't have . 
She and poor Ray had been having one of their quarrels and she was punishing him . 
I could only hear Your voice such a rich , quiet voice , and it has a sound like the look you have friendly and faraway and wistful . 
I have thought and thought about what it is that makes you look wistful . 
You have less to wish for than anybody else in the world because you have Yourself . 
I wanted her to understand you better than to play those little charming tricks at you . 
You are so good , so HIGH , that if she could make a real friend of you I think it would be the best thing for her that could happen . 
She's never had a man FRIEND . 
Perhaps she WAS trying to make one of you and hasn't any other way to go about it . 
She can be so REALLY sweet , I wanted you to see that side of her . 
Day after tomorrow ! Day after to morrow ! DAY AFTER TOMORROW ! . 
I never knew the sky was blue , before . 
Until now I just thought it was the sky . 
I have decided to write again in this book . 
I have thought it all out carefully , and I have come to the conclusion that it can do no harm and may help me to be steady and sensible . 
It is the thought , not its expression , that is guilty , but I do not believe that my thoughts are guilty I believe that they are good . 
I know that I wish only good . 
I have read that when people suffer very much the best thing is for them to cry . 
And if I'm not cured before the wedding , I'll burn it then , anyhow . 
How funny little girls are ! From the time they're little bits of things they talk about marriage whom they are going to marry , what sort of person it will be . 
I think Cora and I began when she was about five and I not seven . 
And as girls grow up , I don't believe there was ever one who genuinely expected to be an old maid . 
The most unattractive young girls discuss and plan and expect marriage just as much as the prettier and gayer ones . 
The only way we can find out that men don't want to marry us is by their not asking us . 
We don't see ourselves very well , and I honestly believe we all think way deep down that we're pretty attractive . 
But I don't believe I have any hallucinations of that sort about myself left . 
I can't imagine now ANY man seeing anything in me that would make him care for me . 
I can't see anything about me to care for , myself . 
I know this is the hardest part of it , the beginning it will get easier by and by , of course . 
If I can just manage this part of it , it's bound not to hurt so much later on . 
Yes , I grew up and fell in love with You for you will always be You . 
You see , I didn't fall in love with you just to have you for myself . 
I shall find happiness , I believe , in service I am sure there will be times when I can serve you both . 
I love you both and I can serve her for You and you for her . 
This isn't a hysterical mood , or a fit of exaltation' I have thought it all out and I know that I can live up to it . 
You are the best thing that can ever come into her life , and everything I can do shall be to keep you there . 
I must be very , very careful with her , for talk and advice do not influence her much . 
You love her she has accepted you , and it is beautiful for you both . 
It must be kept beautiful . 
He sprang to his feet , and the heavy book fell with a muffled crash upon the floor , sprawling open upon its face , its leaves in disorder . 
He moved away from it , staring at it in incredulous dismay . 
He remembered that day when he was waiting for a car , and Laura Madison had stopped for a moment , and then had gone on , saying she preferred to walk . 
He remembered that after he got into the car he wondered why he had not walked home with her had thought himself slow for not thinking of it in time to do it . 
And this pleasant image of Laura remained with him for several days , until he decided that it might be a delightful thing to spend an evening with her . 
He did not analyze the process of the capti vation and enrapturement for love is a mystery and cannot be analyzed . 
This is so well known that even Richard Lindley knew it , and did not try ! . 
Heartsick , he stared at the fallen book . 
He was a man , and here was the proffered love of a woman he did not want . 
He realized with astonishment from what a height she had fallen , how greatly he had respected her , how warmly liked her . 
What she now destroyed had been more important than he had guessed . 
Simple masculine indignation rose within him she was to have been his sister . 
She had written that he should never , never know it that when she was cured she would burn the ledger . 
She had not burned it ! There were inconsistencies in plenty in the pitiful screed , but these were the wildest and the cheapest . 
In talk , she had urged him to keep trying , for Cora , and now the sick minded creature sent him this record . 
She wanted him to know . 
Then what else was it but a plea ? I love you . 
He began to walk up and down , wondering what was to be done . 
After a time , he picked up the book gingerly , set it upon a shelf in a dark corner , and went for a walk outdoors . 
The night air seemed better than that of the room that held the ledger . 
At the corner a boy , running , passed him . 
It was Hedrick Madison , but Hedrick did not recognize Richard , nor was his mind at that moment concerned with Richard's affairs he was on an errand of haste to Doctor Sloane . 
Mr. Madison had wakened from a heavy slumber unable to speak , his condition obviously much worse . 
Hedrick returned in the doctor's car , and then hung uneasily about the door of the sick room until Laura came out and told him to go to bed . 
She looked wan and hollow eyed she had not been to bed , but declared that she would rest after breakfast . 
Evidently she had not missed her ledger and Hedrick watched her closely , a pleasurable excitement stirring in his breast . 
She had just lighted it , and the kindling was beginning to crackle , glowing rosily over her tired face , when the bell rang . 
Will you see who it is , please , Hedrick ? He went with alacrity , and , returning , announced in an odd voice . 
He wants to see you . 
Me ? she murmured , wanly surprised . 
She was kneeling before the fireplace , wearing an old dress which was dusted with ashes , and upon her hands a pair of worn out gloves of her father's . 
Lindley appeared in the hall behind Hedrick , carrying under his arm something wrapped in brown paper . 
His expression led her to think that he had heard of her father's relapse , and came on that account . 
Don't look at me , Richard , she said , smiling faintly as she rose , and stripping her hands of the clumsy gloves . 
It's good of you to come , though . 
Doctor Sloane thinks he is going to be better again . 
Richard inclined his head gravely , but did not speak . 
Well , said Hedrick with a slight emphasis , I guess I'll go out in the yard a while . 
And with shining eyes he left the room . 
He had recognized the ledger in the same wrapping in which he had left it in Mrs. Lindley's vestibule . 
His moment had come the climax of his enormous joke , the repayment in some small measure for the anguish he had so long endured . 
He crept silently back toward the door , flattened his back against the wall , and listened . 
I couldn't think of any sensible thing . 
I suppose what I am doing is the stupidest of all the things I thought of , but at least it's honest so I've brought it back to you myself . 
There was a crackling of the stiff wrapping paper , a little pause , then a strange sound from Laura . 
It was not vocal and no more than just audible it was a prolonged scream in a whisper . 
Hedrick ventured an eye at the crack , between the partly open door and its casing . 
Lindley stood with his back to him , but the boy had a clear view of Laura . 
She was leaning against the wall , facing Richard , the book clutched in both arms against her bosom , the wrapping paper on the floor at her feet . 
I thought of a dozen ways to pretend I believed you hadn't really meant me to read it Making a crucial effort , she managed to speak . 
I thought the longer I put off facing you , the worse it would be for both of us and and the more embarrassing . 
I'm no good at pretending , anyhow and the thing has happened . 
What use is there in not being honest ? Well ? She did not try again to speak . 
Her state was lamentable it was all in her eyes . 
Richard hung his head wretchedly , turning partly away from her . 
There's only one way to look at it , he said hesitatingly , and stammering . 
That is there's only one thing to do to forget that it's happened . 
I'm I oh , well , I care for Cora altogether . 
She's got never to know about this . 
She hasn't any idea or suspicion of it , has she ? Laura managed to shake her head . 
She never must have , he said . 
Will you promise me to burn that book now ? She nodded slowly . 
I I'm awfully sorry , Laura , he said brokenly . 
I'm not idiot enough not to see that you're suffering horribly . 
I suppose I have done the most blundering thing possible . 
He stood a moment , irresolute , then turned to the door . 
Hedrick had just time to dive into the hideous little room of the multitudinous owls as Richard strode into the hall . 
Then , with the closing of the front door , the boy was back at his post . 
Laura stood leaning against the wall , the book clutched in her arms , as Richard had left her . 
Slowly she began to sink , her eyes wide open , and , with her back against the wall , she slid down until she was sitting upon the floor . 
Her arms relaxed and hung limp at her sides , letting the book topple over in her lap , and she sat motionless . 
One of her feet protruded from her skirt , and the leaping firelight illumined it ruddily . 
It was a graceful foot in an old shoe which had been re soled and patched . 
It seemed very still , that patched shoe , as if it might stay still forever . 
Hedrick knew that Laura had not fainted , but he wished she would move her foot . 
He went into the owl room again , and stood there silently a long , long time . 
Then he stole back again toward the library door , but caught a glimpse of that old , motionless shoe through the doorway as he came near . 
Then he spied no more . 
He went out to the stable , and , secluding himself in his studio , sat moodily to meditate . 
But he was decidedly untriumphant he wished Laura had moved her foot and that she hadn't that patch upon her shoe . 
He could not get his mind off that patch . 
He began to feel very queer it seemed to be somehow because of the patch . 
If she had worn a pair of new shoes that morning . 
Yes , it was that patch . 
Thirteen is a dangerous age nothing is more subtle . 
The boy , inspired to play the man , is beset by his own relapses into childhood , and Hedrick was near a relapse . 
By and by , he went into the house again , to the library . 
Laura was not there , but he found the fire almost smothered under heaping ashes . 
She had burned her book . 
A moment later , he stood in the passage outside Laura's closed door listening . 
Laura , he called , in a rough and careless voice , it's kind of a pretty day outdoors . 
If you've had your nap , if I was you I'd go out for a walk . 
I'll go with you , he added , if you want me to . 
He listened again and heard nothing . 
Then he turned the knob softly . 
The door was unlocked he opened it and went in . 
Laura was sitting in a chair , with her back to a window , her hands in her lap . 
She was staring straight in front of her . 
He came near her hesitatingly , and at first she did not seem to see him or even to know that she was not alone in the room . 
Then she looked at him wonderingly , and , as he stood beside her , lifted her right hand and set it gently upon his head . 
Ass ! However , he had not the look of a man who had played cards all night to a disastrous tune with an accompaniment in Scotch . 
His was a surface not easily indented he was hard and healthy , clear skinned and clear eyed . 
He had been making acquaintances . 
He sat at the desk and wrote with a steady hand in Italian MOST ILLUSTRIOUS MOLITERNO We live but learn little . 
As to myself it appears that I learn nothing nothing ! You will at once convey to me by CABLE five thousand lire . 
I should keep away from cards they hate me , and alone I can do nothing with them . 
Unaided , I was a child in their hands . 
It was also a painful rule that one paid for the counters upon delivery . 
This made me ill , but I carried it off with an air of carelessness creditable to an adopted Neapolitan . 
Upon receipt of the money you are to cable me , I shall leave this town and sail immediately . 
Come to Paris , and meet me there at the place on the Rue Auber within ten days from your reading this letter . 
Various circumstances cause me some uneasiness , though I do not believe I could be successfully assailed by the law in the matter of oil . 
You do own an estate in Basilicata , at least your brother does these good people here would not be apt to discover the difference and the rest is a matter of plausibility . 
My little affair of gallantry grows embarrassing . 
Such affairs are so easy to inaugurate extrication is more difficult . 
However , without it I should have failed to interest my investor and there is always the charm . 
Your last letter is too curious in that matter . 
Nevertheless , I promise you some laughter in the Rue Auber . 
Though you will not be able to understand the half of what I shall tell you particularly the portraits I shall sketch of my defeated rivals your spirit shall roll with laughter . 
To the bank , then , the instant you read . 
Cable me one thousand dollars , and be at the Rue Auber not more than ten days later . 
To the bank ! Thence to the telegraph office . 
Speed ! V. C. He was in better spirits as he read over this letter , and he chuckled as he addressed it . 
They had been school fellows in Rome , and later roamed Europe together unleashed , discovering worlds of many kinds . 
At her death there was a small inheritance she had not been provident . 
He had also found that he possessed a strong attraction for various women already at twenty two his experience was considerable , and , in his way , he became a specialist . 
He had a talent he improved it and his opportuni ties . 
Altogether , he took to the work without malice and with a light heart . 
He sealed the envelope , rang for a boy , gave him the letter to post , and directed that the apartment should be set to rights . 
It was not that in which he had received Ray Vilas . 
Corliss had moved to rooms on another floor of the hotel , the day after that eccentric and somewhat ominous person had called to make an investment . 
He changed his rooms , a measure of which Don Antonio Moliterno would have wholly approved . 
A boy came to announce that his roadster waited for him at the hotel entrance , and Corliss put on a fur motoring coat and cap , and went downstairs . 
Goin' take Carmen buggy ride in the country , ain't he ? Good ole Tor'dor ! he quavered loudly , clutching Corliss's shoulder . 
How much you s'pose he pays f' that buzz buggy by the day , jeli'm'n ? Naughty Tor'dor , stole thousand dollars from me makin' presents diamond cresses . 
Tor'dor , I hear you been playing cards . 
Some one caught the grotesque figure as it fell . 
As he sped the car up Corliss Street , he decided to anticipate his letter to Moliterno by a cable . 
He had stayed too long . 
Cora looked charming in a new equipment for November motoring yet it cannot be said that either of them enjoyed the drive . 
, they were served with a meal of such unusual excellence that the waiter thought it a thousand pities patrons so distinguished should possess such poor appetites . 
They returned at about three in the afternoon , and Cora descended from the car wearing no very amiable expression . 
Why won't you come in now ? she asked , looking at him angrily . 
We've got to talk things out . 
I want to know why you can't stop . 
I've got some matters to attend to , and What matters ? She shot him a glance of fierce skepticism . 
Are you packing to get out ? Cora ! he cried reproachfully , how can you say things like that to ME ! She shook her head . 
Oh , it wouldn't surprise me in the least ! How do I know what you'll do ? For all I know , you may be just that kind of a man . 
You SAID you ought to be going Cora , he explained , gently , I didn't say I meant to go . 
I said only that I thought I ought to , because Moliterno will be needing me in Basilicata . 
I ought to be there , since it appears that no more money is to be raised here . 
I ought to be superintending operations in the oil field , so as to make the best use of the little I have raised . 
Of course I didn't have anything to do with it ! He sighed deeply . 
You know perfectly well that I appreciate all you did . 
We don't seem to get on very well to day No ! She laughed again , bitterly . 
So you think you'll be going , don't you ? To my rooms to write some necessary letters . 
Of course not to pack your trunk ? Cora , he returned , goaded sometimes you're just impossible . 
I'll come to morrow forenoon . 
Then don't bring the car . 
I'm tired of motoring and tired of lunching in that rotten hole . 
We can talk just as well in the library . 
Papa's better , and that little fiend will be in school to morrow . 
Don't forget I love you , he called in a low voice . 
She stood looking after him as the car dwindled down the street . 
Yes , you do ! she murmured . 
She walked up the path to the house , her face thoughtful , as with a tiresome perplexity . 
In her own room , divesting herself of her wraps , she gave the mirror a long scrutiny . 
She suffered a warm wave of sorrow submerged her , and she threw herself upon the bed and wept long and silently for herself . 
At last her eyes dried , and she lay staring at the ceiling . 
The doorbell rang , and Sarah , the cook , came to inform her that Mr. Richard Lindley was below . 
Done told him you was home . 
Will you go and tell him I'm sick in bed or dead ? Anything to make him go . 
And , assuming Laura's acquiescence , Cora went on , without pause Is father worse ? What's the matter with you , Laura ? Nothing . 
He's a little better , Miss Peirce thinks . 
Then run along like a duck and get rid of that old bore for me . 
Cora please see him ? Not me ! I've got too much to think about to bother with him . 
Laura walked to the window and stood with her back to her sister , apparently interested in the view of Corliss Street there presented . 
Cora , she said , why don't you marry him and have done with all this ? Cora hooted . 
He might object to some things but it doesn't matter , because I'm not going to try him . 
I don't mind a man's being a fool , but I can't stand the absent minded breed of idiot . 
That's what made him so obstinate about it . 
I'm sick of EVERYTHING ! I don't care for anything or anybody on this earth except except you and mamma . 
I thought I was going to love Val . 
I thought I DID but oh , my Lord , I don't ! I don't think I CAN care any more . 
Or else there isn't any such thing as love . 
Ugh ! For heaven's sake , Laura , don't make me talk . 
Everything's gone to the devil and I've got to think . 
The best thing you can do is to go down and get rid of Richard for me . 
I CAN'T see him ! Very well , said Laura , and went to the door . 
You're a darling , whispered Cora , kissing her quickly . 
Tell him I'm in a raging headache make him think I wanted to see him , but you wouldn't let me , because I'm too ill . 
Hedrick was stalking the front yard , mounted at a great height upon a pair of stilts . 
He joined the departing visitor upon the sidewalk and honoured him with his company , proceeding storkishly beside him . 
Been to see Cora ? Yes , Hedrick . 
What'd you want to see her about ? asked the frank youth seriously . 
Richard was able to smile . 
Nothing in particular , Hedrick . 
You didn't come to tell her about something ? Nothing whatever , my dear sir . 
I wished merely the honour of seeing her and chatting with her upon indifferent subjects . 
Why ? Did you see her ? No , I'm sorry to She's home , all right , Hedrick took pleasure in informing him . 
She was lying down and I told your mother not to disturb her . 
Worn out with too much automobile riding , I expect , Hedrick sniffed . 
She goes out about every day with this Corliss in his hired roadster . 
They walked on in silence . 
Not far from Mrs. Lindley's , Hedrick abruptly became vocal in an artificial laugh . 
Odd I didn't know it . 
That's why it was good . 
You'd never guess it in the world . 
No , I believe I shouldn't . 
You see what makes it so hard , Hedrick , is that I can't even remember seeing you , last night . 
Somebody heard me though , all right . 
Who ? The nigger that works at your mother's Joe . 
What about it ? Were you teasing Joe ? No , it was you I was after . 
Well ? Did you get me ? Hedrick made another somewhat ghastly pretence of mirth . 
Well , I guess I've had about all the fun out of it I'm going to . 
Might as well tell you . 
It was that book of Laura's you thought she sent you . 
Richard stopped short whereupon Hedrick turned clumsily , and began to stalk back in the direction from which they had come . 
That book I thought she sent me ? Lindley repeated , stammering . 
She never sent it , called the boy , continuing to walk away . 
She kept it hid , and I found it . 
I faked her into writing your name on a sheet of paper , and made you think she'd sent the old thing to you . 
I just did it for a joke on you . 
Richard took him to Mrs. Lindley for repairs . 
She kept him until dark Hedrick was bandaged , led , lemonaded and blandished . 
Never in his life had he known such a listener . 
CHAPTER TWENTY ONE That was a long night for Cora Madison , and the morning found her yellow . 
Cora , drumming with her fingers upon a window in the owl haunted cell , made noises with her throat , her breath and her lips not unsuggestive of a sputtering fuse . 
Now what in thunder do YOU want ? she inquired of an elderly man who turned in from the sidewalk and with serious steps approached the house . 
Pryor , having rung , found himself confronted with the lady he had come to seek . 
Ensued the moment of strangers meeting invisible antennae extended and touched at the contact , Cora's drew in , and she looked upon him without graciousness . 
I just called , he said placatively , smiling as if some humour lurked in his intention , to ask how your father is . 
I heard downtown he wasn't getting along quite so well . 
He's better this morning , thanks , said Cora , preparing to close the door . 
I thought I'd just stop and ask about him . 
I heard he'd had another bad spell kind of a second stroke . 
That was night before last . 
The doctor thinks he's improved very much since then . 
The door was closing he coughed hastily , and detained it by speaking again . 
I've called several times to inquire about him , but I believe it's the first time I've had the pleasure of speaking to you , Miss Madison . 
I've had a nice bit of luck lately and got a second furlough , so I came out to spend a couple of weeks and Thanksgiving with my married daughter . 
Cora supposed that it must be very pleasant . 
But I was mighty sorry to hear your father wasn't much better than when I left . 
I'm afraid you can't have a talk with him now , she said . 
The doctor says I know , I know , said Pryor , of course . 
I wonder he hesitated , smiling faintly I wonder if I could have it with you instead . 
Me ? Oh , it isn't business , he laughed , observing her expression . 
That is , not exactly . 
His manner became very serious . 
It's about a friend of mine at least , a man I know pretty well . 
Miss Madison , I saw you driving out through the park with him , yesterday noon , in an automobile . 
Honesty , friendliness , and grave concern were disclosed to her scrutiny . 
There was no mistaking him he was a good man . 
Her mouth opened , and her eyelids flickered as from a too sudden invasion of light the look of one perceiving the close approach of a vital crisis . 
But there was no surprise in her face . 
Come in , she said . 
When Corliss arrived , at about eleven o'clock that morning , Sarah brought him to the library , where he found Cora waiting for him . 
He had the air of a man determined to be cheerful under adverse conditions he came in briskly , and Cora closed the door behind him . 
Keep away from me , she said , pushing him back sharply , the next instant . 
I've had enough of that for a while I believe . 
He sank into a chair , affecting desolation . 
Caresses blighted in the bud ! Cora , one would think us really married . 
She walked across the floor to a window , turned there , with her back to the light , and stood facing him , her arms folded . 
Good heavens ! he exclaimed , noting this attitude . 
Is it the trial scene from a faded melodrama ? She looked steadily at him without replying . 
What's it all about to day ? he asked lightly . 
I'll try to give you the proper cues if you'll indicate the general nature of the scene , Cora mine . 
She continued to look at him in silence . 
It's very effective , he observed . 
Brings out the figure , too . 
Do forgive me if you're serious , dear lady , but never in my life was I able to take the folded arms business seriously . 
It was used on the stage of all countries so much that I believe most new school actors have dropped it . 
They think it lacks genuineness . 
Cora waited a moment longer , then spoke . 
How much chance have I to get Richard Lindley's money back from you ? He was astounded . 
Oh , I say ! I had a caller , this morning , she said , slowly . 
He talked about you quite a lot ! He's told me several things about you . 
Mr. Vilas ? he asked , with a sting in his quick smile . 
No , she answered coolly . 
At that he jumped up , stepped quickly close to her , and swept her with an intense and brilliant scrutiny . 
Pryor , by God ! he cried . 
He knows you pretty well , she said . 
So do now ! He swung away from her , back to his chair , dropped into it and began to laugh . 
Well , what did he say ? She had begun to tremble , not with fear . 
He said a good deal . 
Well , what was it ? What did he tell you ? I think you'll find it plenty ! Come on ! YOU ! She pointed at him . 
He told me she burst out furiously he said you were a professional sharper ! Oh , no . 
Old Pryor doesn't talk like that . 
He told me you were notorious over half of Europe , she cried vehemently . 
He said he'd arrested you himself , once , in Rotterdam , for smuggling jewels , and that you were guilty , but managed to squirm out of it . 
He said the police had put you out of Germany and you'd be arrested if you ever tried to go back . 
Oh , yes , he told me a few things ! He caught her by the shoulder . 
See here , Cora , do you believe all this tommy rot ? She shook his hand off instantly . 
Believe it ? I know it ! There isn't a straight line in your whole soul and mind you're crooked all over . 
You've been crooked with ME from the start . 
The moment that man began to speak , I knew every word of it was true . 
He wanted to know if I thought you'd been doing anything of that sort here . 
What he meant was Had you been using me ? What did you tell him ? The question rang sharply on the instant . 
Ha ! That gets into you , does it ? she returned bitterly . 
You can't overdo your fear of that man , I think , but I didn't tell him anything . 
I just listened and thanked him for the warning , and said I'd have nothing more to do with you . 
If you'll tell me what chance I have to get it back . 
Cora , he said , you don't want it back . 
Oh ? Don't I ? No. He smiled faintly , and went on . 
Now , all this nonsense of old Pryor's isn't worth denying . 
I have met him abroad that much is true and I suppose I have rather a gay reputation She uttered a jeering shout . 
I told you I'd cut quite a swathe , when I first talked to you about myself . 
Let it go for the present and come down to this question of Lindley's investment Yes . 
That's what I want you to come down to . 
The details he gave me sounded strangely familiar ! You'd as well be patient , Cora . 
Now , that money has probably been partially spent , by this time , on tools and labour and What are you trying to I'll show you . 
But first I'd like you to understand that nothing can be done to me . 
I could bring forty witnesses from Naples to swear they have helped to bore the wells . 
I'm safe as your stubborn friend , Mr. Trumble , himself . 
I knew you wouldn't ! You see , he said quietly , it would be impossible . 
We must go on supposing for a moment if I had put that money away , I might be contemplating a departure You'd better ! she cried fiercely . 
He's going to find out everything you've been doing . 
He's heard a rumour that you were trying to raise money here he told me so , and said he'd soon The better reason for not delaying , perhaps . 
Cora , see here ! He moved nearer her . 
Wouldn't I need a lot of money if I expected to have a beautiful lady to care for , and You idiot ! she screamed . 
Do you think I'm going with you ? He flushed heavily . 
Well , aren't you ? He paused , to stare at her , as she wrung her hands and sobbed with hysterical laughter . 
I thought , he went on , slowly , that you would possibly even insist on that . 
Oh , Lord , Lord , Lord ! She stamped her foot , and with both hands threw the tears from her eyes in wide and furious gestures . 
He told me you were married Did you let him think you hadn't known that ? demanded Corliss . 
You understood perfectly I did not ! You said you HAD been . 
You made me think it was something that had happened a long time ago . 
You love to fool yourself , Cora , but the role of betrayed virtue doesn't suit you very well . 
You're young , but you're a pretty experienced woman for all that , and you haven't done anything you didn't want to . 
You've had both eyes open every minute , and we both know it . 
You are just as wise as You're lying and YOU know it ! What did I want to make Richard go into your scheme for ? You made a fool of me . 
I'm not speaking of the money now , he returned quickly . 
You'd better keep your mind on the subject . 
Are you coming away with me ? What for ? she asked . 
What FOR ? he echoed incredulously . 
I want to know if you're coming . 
Much ? She looked at him eagerly . 
His answer sounded quite genuine . 
Will it hurt you if I don't ? Of course it will . 
Thank heaven for that , she said quietly . 
I'd cut my throat before I'd go with you . 
I thought I understood a few kinds of women ! Now listen I've offered to take you , and you can't say Offered ! It was she who came toward him now . 
She came swiftly , shaking with rage , and struck him upon the breast . 
You made a fool of me ! Cora he began , imploringly . 
You made a fool of me ! She struck him again . 
Strike me , he said . 
I love you Actor ! Cora , I want you . 
I want you more than I ever She screamed with hysterical laughter . 
Liar , liar , liar ! The same old guff . 
Don't you even see it's too late for the old rotten tricks ? Cora , I want you to come . 
I never want to hear you speak again . 
For the last time NO ! You made a fool of me ! She beat him upon the breast , striking again and again , with all her strength . 
Get out , I tell you ! I'm through with you ! He tried to make her listen , to hold her wrists he could do neither . 
Get out get out ! she screamed . 
She pushed and dragged him toward the door , and threw it open . 
CHAPTER TWENTY TWO Cora lost no time . 
Corliss had not closed the front door behind him before she was running up the stairs . 
Mrs. Madison , emerging from her husband's room , did not see her daughter's face for Cora passed her quickly , looking the other way . 
Was anything the matter ? asked the mother anxiously . 
I thought I heard Nothing in the world , Cora flung back over her shoulder . 
Mr. Corliss said I couldn't imitate Sara Bernhardt , and I showed him I could . 
She began to hum left a fragment of rag time floating behind her as she entered her own room and Mrs. Madison , relieved , returned to the invalid . 
Cora changed her clothes quickly . 
She put on a pale gray skirt and coat for the street , high shoes and a black velvet hat , very simple . 
The costume was almost startlingly becoming to her never in her life had she looked prettier . 
After that she brought from her clothes pantry a small travelling bag and packed it hurriedly . 
Laura , returning from errands downtown and glancing up at Cora's window , perceived an urgently beckoning , gray gloved hand , and came at once to her sister's room . 
What's happened ? asked Laura quickly . 
You look exactly like a going away bride . 
What Cora spoke rapidly Laura , I want you to take this bag and keep it in your room till a messenger boy comes for it . 
When the bell rings , go to the door yourself , and hand it to him . 
Don't give Hedrick a chance to go to the door . 
Just give it to the boy and don't say anything to mamma about it . 
I'm going downtown and I may not be back . 
Laura began to be frightened . 
What is it you want to do , Cora ? she asked , trembling . 
Cora was swift and business like . 
See here , Laura , I've got to keep my head about me . 
You can do a great deal for me , if you won't be emotional just now , and help me not to be . 
I can't afford it , because I've got to do things , and I'm going to do them just as quickly as I can , and get it over . 
If I wait any longer I'll go insane . 
I CAN'T wait ! You've been a wonderful sister to me I've always counted on you , and you've never once gone back on me . 
Right now , I need you to help me more than I ever have in my life . 
Now that's just what you mustn't do . 
I can't stand it ! You've got to be QUIET . 
I can't Yes , yes , Laura said hurriedly . 
I'll do whatever you say . 
But I've got to know where you're going I can't let you go and not Yes , you can ! Besides , you've promised to . 
I'm not going to do anything foolish Then why not tell me ? Laura began . 
She went on , imploring Cora to confide in her , entreating her to see their mother to do a dozen things altogether outside of Cora's plans . 
You're wasting your breath , Laura , said the younger sister , interrupting , and wasting my time . 
You're in the dark you think I'm going to run away with Val Corliss and you're wrong . 
I sent him out of the house for good , a while ago Thank heaven for that ! cried Laura . 
I'm going to take care of myself , Cora went on rapidly . 
I'm going to get out of the mess I'm in , and you've got to let me do it my own way . 
I'll send you a note from downtown . 
You see that the messenger She was at the door , but Laura caught her by the sleeve , protesting and beseeching . 
I'll come back in two hours and tell you all about it . 
If I promise that , will you promise to send me the bag by the But if you're coming back you won't need Cora spoke very quietly . 
I'll go to pieces in a moment . 
Really , I do think I'd better jump out of the window and have it over . 
I'll send the bag , Laura quavered , if you'll promise to come back in two hours . 
She walked briskly down Corliss Street . 
An autumnal cheerfulness was abroad , and pedestrians showed it in their quickened steps , in their enlivened eyes , and frequent smiles , and in the colour of their faces . 
But none showed more colour or a gayer look than Cora . 
Her greeting of Mary Kane was graver , as was aesthetically appropriate , Mr. Wattling's engagement having been broken by that lady , immediately after his drive to the Country Club for tea . 
Cora received from the beautiful jilt a salutation even graver than her own , which did not confound her . 
Halfway down the street was a drug store . 
She went in , and obtained appreciative permission to use the telephone . 
She came out well satisfied , and went swiftly on her way . 
Ten minutes later , she opened the door of Wade Trumble's office . 
He was alone her telephone had caught him in the act of departing for lunch . 
But he had been glad to wait glad to the verge of agitation . 
By George , Cora ! he exclaimed , as she came quickly in and closed the door , but you CAN look stunning ! Believe me , that's some get up . 
But let me tell you right here and now , before you begin , it's no use your tackling me again on the oil proposition . 
If there was any chance of my going into it which there wasn't , not one on earth why , the very fact of your asking me would have stopped me . 
I'm no Dick Lindley , I beg to inform you I don't spend my money helping a girl that I want , myself , to make a hit with another man . 
You treated me like a dog about that , right in the street , and you needn't try it again , because I won't stand for it . 
I've got through playing , she said in a low voice . 
And I've come to you . 
You've come he said , huskily . 
Here I am , Wade . 
He had flushed , but now the colour left his small face , and he grew very white . 
I don't believe you mean it . 
I was rotten to you about that oil nonsense . 
It WAS nonsense , nothing on earth but nonsense . 
I tell you frankly I was a fool . 
You cared for me , but you cared for business more than for me . 
Well , no woman likes THAT , Wade . 
I've come to tell you the whole thing I can't stand it any longer . 
I suffered horribly be cause because She faltered . 
Wade , that was no way to WIN a girl . 
Cora ! His incredulity was strong . 
I thought I hated you for it , Wade . 
Yes , I did think that I'm telling you everything , you see just blurting it out as it comes , Wade . 
Well , Corliss asked me to help him , and it struck me I'd show that I could understand a business deal , myself . 
Wade , this is pretty hard to say , I was such a little fool , but you ought to know it . 
Tears came into her voice . 
Oh , Wade , she said , softly , it was the very wildness of my anger that showed what I really felt . 
About about ME ? His incredulity struggled with his hope . 
He stepped close to her . 
What an awful fool I've been , she sighed . 
She bent her head , humbly , then lifted it , and spoke rapidly . 
All the rest is dreadful , Wade . 
I had a distrust of Corliss from the first I didn't like him , but I took him up because I thought he offered the chance to show YOU what I could do . 
Well , it's got me into a most horrible mess . 
He's a swindler , a rank By George ! Wade shouted . 
Cora , you're talking out now like a real woman . 
Then , this morning , an old man came to the house , a man named Pryor , who knew him and knew his record , and he told me all about him . 
But you had sent Corliss away first ? Wade asked , sharply . 
Yesterday , I tell you . 
She set her hand on the little man's shoulder . 
Wade , there's bound to be a scandal over all this . 
Even if Corliss gets away without being arrested and tried , the whole thing's bound to come OUT . 
I'll be the laughing stock of the town and I deserve to be it's all through having been ridiculous idiot enough to try and impress you with my business brilliancy . 
Well , I can't stand it ! Cora , do you He faltered . 
She leaned toward him , her hand still on his shoulder , her exquisite voice lowered , and thrilling in its sweetness . 
Wade , I'm through playing . 
I've come to you at last because you've utterly conquered me . 
If you'll take me away to day , I'll MARRY you to day ! He gave a shout that rang again from the walls . 
Do you want me ? she whispered then smiled upon his rapture indulgently . 
With the word marry , his incredulity sped forever . 
Such a wedding we'll have ! he shouted , after that . 
No ! she said sharply . 
Then we'll be out of this town on the three o'clock train this afternoon , she said . 
She went on with her plans , while he , growing more accustomed to his privilege , caressed her as he would . 
You shall have your way , she said , in everything except the wedding journey . 
That's got to be a long one I won't come back here till people have forgotten all about this Corliss mix up . 
I've never been abroad , and I want you to take me . 
We can stay a long , long time . 
I've brought nothing we'll get whatever we want in New York before we sail . 
He had never really hoped to win her paradise had opened , dazing him with glory he was astounded , mad with joy , and abjectly his lady's servant . 
Hadn't you better run along and get the license ? she laughed . 
We'll have to be married on the way to the train . 
You angel ! I'll wait here for you , she smiled . 
There won't be too much time . 
He obtained a moderate control of his voice and feet . 
Enfield that's my cashier he'll be back from his lunch at one thirty . 
Tell him about us , if I'm not here by then . 
Tell him he's got to manage somehow . 
Good bye till I come back Mrs. Trumble ! At the door he turned . 
Oh , have you you He paused uncertainly . 
Have you sent Richard Lindley any word about Wade ! She gave his inquiry an indulgent amusement . 
If I'm not worrying about him , do you think you need to ? I meant about You funny thing , she said . 
I never had any idea of really marrying him it wasn't anything but one of those silly half engagements , and I didn't mean that , he said , apologetically . 
I meant about letting him know what this Pryor told you about Corliss , so that Richard might do something toward getting his money back . 
We ought to Oh , yes , she said quickly . 
Yes , that's all right . 
You saw Richard ? No. I sent him a note . 
He knows all about it by this time , if he has been home this morning . 
You'd better start , Wade . 
Send a messenger to our house for my bag . 
Tell him to bring it here and then take a note for me . 
You'd really better start dear ! CORA ! he shouted , took her in his arms , and was gone . 
His departing gait down the corridor to the elevator seemed , from the sounds , to be a gallop . 
Left alone , Cora wrote , sealed , and directed a note to Laura . 
In it she recounted what Pryor had told her of Corliss begged Laura and her parents not to think her heartless in not preparing them for this abrupt marriage . 
She was in such a state of nervousness , she wrote , that explanations would have caused a breakdown . 
The marriage was a sensible one she had long contemplated it as a possibility and , after thinking it over thoroughly , she had decided it was the only thing to do . 
She sent her undying love . 
She was sitting with this note in her hand when shuffling footsteps sounded in the corridor either Wade's cashier or the messenger , she supposed . 
The door knob turned , a husky voice asking , Want a drink ? as the door opened . 
Cora was not surprised she knew Vilas's office was across the hall from that in which she waited but she was frightened . 
Ray stood blinking at her . 
What are you doing here ? he asked , at last . 
CHAPTER TWENTY THREE It is probable that he got the truth out of her , perhaps all of it . 
That will remain a matter of doubt Cora's evidence , if she gave it , not being wholly trustworthy in cases touching herself . 
But she felt no need of mentioning to any one that she had seen her former lover that day . 
It is the more probable that she told Ray the whole truth , because he already knew something of Corliss's record abroad . 
In addition , Cora had always found it very difficult to deceive Vilas he had an almost perfect understanding of a part of her nature she could never far mislead him about herself . 
With her , he was intuitive and jumped to strange , inconsistent , true conclusions , as women do . 
He had the art of reading her face , her gestures he had learned to listen to the tone of her voice more than to what she said . 
In his cups , too , he had fitful but almost demoniac inspirations for hidden truth . 
And , remembering that Cora always got even , it remains finally to wonder if she might not have told him everything at the instance of some shadowy impulse in that direction . 
There may have been a luxury in whatever confession she made perhaps it was not entirely forced from her , and heaven knows how she may have coloured it . 
Mr. Enfield , a young , well favoured and recent importation from another town , was deliciously impressed by the charm of the waiting lady . 
They had not met and Enfield wondered how Trumble had compassed such an enormous success as this and he wished that he had seen her before matters had gone so far . 
He thought he might have had a chance . 
Trumble bounded in , shouting that everything was attended to , except instructions to Enfield , whom he pounded wildly upon the back . 
He began signing papers a stenographer was called from another room of his offices and there was half an hour of rapid fire . 
Do not forget ME ! it had seemed to say . 
We shall come back some day . 
Their escape was by a very narrow margin of safety , and Cora closed her eyes . 
Then she was cross , because she had been frightened , and commanded Wade cavalierly to bid the driver be more careful . 
Of course , though , it wasn't altogether his fault , he said , settling back , his arm round his lady's waist . 
It's an outrage for the police to break their own rules that way . 
I guess they don't need to be in a hurry any more than WE do ! The Justice made short work of it . 
The picture had always failed in outline there the bridegroom's nearest approach to definition had never been clearer than a composite photograph . 
The truth is , Cora never in her life wished to be married . 
CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR Valentine Corliss had nothing to do but to wait for the money his friend Antonio would send him by cable . 
His own cable , anticipating his letter , had been sent yesterday , when he came back to the hotel , after lunching in the country with Cora . 
It was no fear of Pryor which shook him . 
He knew that Pryor did not mean to cause his arrest certainly not immediately . 
Of course , Pryor knew that Cora would tell him . 
The old fellow's move was a final notification . 
It meant Get out of town within twenty four hours . 
And Corliss intended to obey . 
He would have left that evening , indeed , without the warning his trunk was packed . 
He had kept a cool head throughout their affair until the last but this morning she had fascinated him and he found himself passionately admiring the fury of her . 
She had confused him as he had never been confused . 
He thought he had tamed her thought he owned her and the discovery of this mistake was what made him regret that she would not come away with him . 
Such a flight , until to day , had been one of his apprehensions but now the thought that it was not to be , brought something like pain . 
At least , he felt a vacancy had a sense of something lacking . 
She would have been a bright comrade for the voyage and he thought of gestures of hers , turns of the head , tricks of the lovely voice and sighed . 
Of course it was best for him that he could return to his old trails alone and free he saw that . 
Cora would have been a complication and an embarrassment without predictable end , but she would have been a rare flame for a while . 
He wondered what she meant to do of course she had a plan . 
Should he try again , give her another chance ? No there was one point upon which she had not mystified him he knew she really hated him . 
The wind was against the smoke that day and his spirits rose , as he walked in the brisk air with the rich sky above him . 
After all , this venture upon his native purlieus had been fax from fruitless he could not have expected to do much better . 
He had made his coup he knew no other who could have done it . 
It was a handsome bit of work , in fact , and possible only to a talented native thoroughly sophisticated in certain foreign subtleties . 
He knew himself for a rare combination . 
He had a glimmer of Richard Lindley beginning at the beginning again to build a modest fortune it was the sort of thing the Richard Lindleys were made for . 
Richard had disliked him as a boy did not like him now but Corliss had not taken his money out of malice for that . 
The adventurer was not revengeful he was merely impervious . 
Then he returned to his room in the hotel . 
The mirror over the mantelpiece , in the front room of his suite , showed him a fine figure of a man hale , deep chested , handsome , straight and cheerful . 
Well , old top , he said , reviewing and summing up his whole campaign , not so bad . 
Not so bad , all in all not so bad , old top . 
Well played indeed ! At a sound of footsteps approaching his door , he turned in casual expectancy , thinking it might be a boy to notify him that Moliterno's cable had arrived . 
But there was no knock , and the door was flung wide open . 
It was Vilas , and he had his gun with him this time . 
There was a shallow clothes closet in the wall near the fireplace , and Corliss ran in there but Vilas began to shoot through the door . 
Mutilated , already a dead man , and knowing it , Corliss came out , and tried to run into the bedroom . 
Ray saved his last shot for himself . 
CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE There is a song of parting , an intentionally pathetic song , which contains the line , All the tomorrows shall be as to day , mean ing equally gloomy . 
Young singers , loving this line , take care to pronounce the words with unusual distinctness the listener may feel that the performer has the capacity for great and consistent suffering . 
It is not , of course , that youth loves unhappiness , but the appearance of it , its supposed picturesque ness . 
Youth runs from what is pathetic , but hangs fondly upon pathos . 
For youth believes in permanence . 
It is when we are young that we say , I shall never , and I shall always , not knowing that we are only time's atoms in a crucible of incredible change . 
An old man scarce dares say , I have never , for he knows that if he searches he will find , probably , that he has . 
All , all is change . 
She did not begin the recital immediately upon taking her chair , across the hearth from her son she led up to it . 
She was an ample , fresh coloured , lively woman and like her son only in being a kind soul he got neither his mortal seriousness nor his dreaminess from her . 
She was more than content with Cora's abandonment of him , though , as chivalrousness was not demanded of her , she would have preferred that he should have been the jilt . 
She thought Richard well off in his release , even at the price of all his savings . 
His mother , pleased with his misfortune in love , was of course troubled that it should cause him to suffer . 
She knew she could not heal him but she also knew that everything is healed in time , and that sometimes it is possible for people to help time a little . 
Her first remark to her son , this evening , was that to the best of her memory she had never used the word hellion . 
In what new way ? he inquired . 
Egerton used to be the neatest , best mannered , best dressed boy in town but he looks and behaves like a Digger Indian since he's taken to following Hedrick around . 
Mrs. Villard says it's the greatest sorrow of her life , but she's quite powerless the boy is Hedrick's slave . 
The other day she sent a servant after him , and just bringing him home nearly ruined her limousine . 
Egerton didn't know what a gnu was , but Hedrick told him that was the way to be one , he said . 
Richard nodded , and smiled faintly for comment . 
They sat in silence for a while . 
I saw Mrs. Madison yesterday , said his mother . 
She seemed very cheerful her husband is able to talk almost perfectly again , though he doesn't get downstairs . 
Laura reads to him a great deal . 
He nodded again , his gaze not moving from the fire . 
Laura was with her mother , said Mrs. Lindley . 
She looked very fetching in a black cloth suit and a fur hat old ones her sister left , I suspect , but very becoming , for all that . 
Laura's going out' more than usual this winter . 
She's really the belle of the holiday dances , I hear . 
Of course she would be , she added , thoughtfully now . 
Why should she be now' more than before ? Oh , Laura's quite blossomed , Mrs. Lindley answered . 
I think she's had some great anxieties relieved . 
Of course both she and her mother must have worried about Cora as much as they waited on her . 
It must be a great burden lifted to have her comfortably settled , or , at least , disposed of . 
I thought they both looked better . 
But I have a special theory about Laura I suppose you'll laugh at me Oh , no . 
I wish you would sometimes , she said wistfully , so only you laughed . 
My idea is that Laura was in love with that poor little Trumble , too . 
What ? He looked up at that . 
Yes girls fall in love with anybody . 
I fancy she cared very deeply for him but I think she's a strong , sane woman , now . 
She's about the steadiest , coolest person I know and I know her better , lately , than I used to . 
She's having a pretty good time , I imagine she has everything in the world except money , and she's never cared at all about THAT . 
And from what I hear from Mrs. Villard , continued his mother , I guess she has enough young men in love with her to keep any girl busy . 
He was interested enough to show some surprise . 
In love with Laura ? Four , I hear . 
The best of women are sometimes the readiest with impromptu statistics . 
Well , well ! he said , mildly . 
You see , Laura has taken to smiling on the world , and the world smiles back at her . 
It's not a bad world about that , Richard . 
But there's more than that in this case , my dear son . 
Lisieux is a little town in Normandy , she said . 
I was there a few days with your father , one summer , long ago . 
It's a country full of old stories , folklore , and traditions and the people still believe in the Old Scratch pretty literally . 
This legend was of the time when he came to Lisieux . 
The people knew he was coming because a wise woman had said that he was on the way , and predicted that he would arrive at the time of the great fair . 
Everybody was in great distress , because they knew that whoever looked at him would become bewitched , but , of course , they had to go to the fair . 
So they were all bewitched , and began to scream and howl and roll on the ground , and turn on each other and brawl , and commit all manner of excesses . 
The angel had been there all the time that the fiend was , of course . 
So they have a saying now , that there may be angels with us , but we don't notice them when the devil's about . 
She did not look at her son as she finished , and she had hurried through the latter part of her legend with increasing timidity . 
The parallel was more severe , now that she put it to him , than she intended it sounded savage and she feared she had overshot her mark . 
But the legend was not very gallant to Cora ! Mrs. Lindley knew that it hurt her son she felt it without looking at him , and before he gave a sign . 
As it was , he did not speak , but , after a few moments , rose and went quietly out of the room then she heard the front door open and close . 
She sat by his fire a long , long time and was sorry and wondered . 
I only meant that often the world finds out that there are lovely people it hasn't noticed . 
He reproached himself , then , for the reproach his leaving her had been he had a susceptible and annoying conscience , this unfortunate Richard . 
Coquetting with four suitors was not only inconsistent it was unbecoming . 
It suited Cora's style , but in Laura it was outrageous . 
His indignation with her had not worn off when he descended to breakfast , but he made up to his mother for having troubled her . 
She thanked him , but half declined . 
I'm afraid it's too cold for me , but there are lots of nice girls in town , Richard , who won't mind weather . 
But I asked YOU ! It was finally left an open question for the afternoon to settle and , upon her urging , he went out for a walk . 
When the bell rang , Laura was kneeling before the library fire , which she had just kindled , and she had not risen when Sarah brought Richard to the doorway . 
She was shabby enough , poor Cinderella ! looking up , so frightened , when her prince appeared . 
She had not been to the dance . 
She had not four suitors . 
She rose and stepped back a little . 
But to Richard she looked very beautiful and a strange thing happened trembling , he saw that the firelight upon her face was brighter than any firelight he had ever seen . 
