Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY BY FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT I Cedric himself knew nothing whatever about it . 
It had never been even mentioned to him . 
Since his papa's death , Cedric had found out that it was best not to talk to his mamma about him . 
She was pale and thin , and all the dimples had gone from her pretty face , and her eyes looked large and mournful , and she was dressed in black . 
, dearest , is my papa better ? He felt her arms tremble , and so he turned his curly head and looked in her face . 
There was something in it that made him feel that he was going to cry . 
Yes , he is well , she sobbed he is quite , quite well , but we we have no one left but each other . 
Then he was told that his mamma was an orphan , and quite alone in the world when his papa had married her . 
But it so happened that Nature had given to the youngest son gifts which she had not bestowed upon his elder brothers . 
And it was not so with his elder brothers neither of them was handsome , or very kind , or clever . 
But , after about six months , he began to feel lonely , and longed in secret to see his son again , so he wrote to Captain Cedric and ordered him home . 
Bad as his temper was , he had never given way to it in his life as he gave way to it when he read the Captain's letter . 
His valet , who was in the room when it came , thought his lordship would have a fit of apoplexy , he was so wild with anger . 
At first he scarcely knew what to do he had not been brought up to work , and had no business experience , but he had courage and plenty of determination . 
So he sold his commission in the English army , and after some trouble found a situation in New York , and married . 
She was very sweet , indeed , and her little boy was like both her and his father . 
Though he was born in so quiet and cheap a little home , it seemed as if there never had been a more fortunate baby . 
And every month of his life he grew handsomer and more interesting . 
His greatest charm was this cheerful , fearless , quaint little way of making friends with people . 
It made him very quick to understand the feelings of those about him . 
Perhaps this had grown on him , too , because he had lived so much with his father and mother , who were always loving and considerate and tender and well bred . 
He was not old enough to know of anything else to do , so he did what he could , and was more of a comfort to her than he could have understood . 
Oh , Mary ! he heard her say once to her old servant I am sure he is trying to help me in his innocent way I know he is . 
He looks at me sometimes with a loving , wondering little look , as if he were sorry for me , and then he will come and pet me or show me something . 
He is such a little man , I really think he knows . 
As he grew older , he had a great many quaint little ways which amused and interested people greatly . 
He was so much of a companion for his mother that she scarcely cared for any other . 
They used to walk together and talk together and play together . 
I'm a 'publican , an' so is Dearest . 
An' nivver a day since thin has he let go by widout argyin' wid me to change me polytics . 
Mary was very fond of him , and very proud of him , too . 
She had been with his mother ever since he was born and , after his father's death , had been cook and housemaid and nurse and everything else . 
She was willing to work early and late to help his mamma make his small suits and keep them in order . 
'Ristycratic , is it ? she would say . 
Faith , an' I'd loike to see the choild on Fifth Avey NOO as looks loike him an' shteps out as handsome as himself . 
It's loike a young lord he looks . 
Cedric did not know that he looked like a young lord he did not know what a lord was . 
His greatest friend was the groceryman at the corner the cross groceryman , who was never cross to him . 
His name was Mr. Hobbs , and Cedric admired and respected him very much . 
It was quite surprising how many things they found to talk about the Fourth of July , for instance . 
When they began to talk about the Fourth of July there really seemed no end to it . 
Cedric was so excited that his eyes shone and his cheeks were red and his curls were all rubbed and tumbled into a yellow mop . 
He could hardly wait to eat his dinner after he went home , he was so anxious to tell his mamma . 
It was , perhaps , Mr. Hobbs who gave him his first interest in politics . 
And once , when there was an election , he found it all quite grand , and probably but for Mr. Hobbs and Cedric the country might have been wrecked . 
It was not long after this election , when Cedric was between seven and eight years old , that the very strange thing happened which made so wonderful a change in his life . 
Did you ever know many marquises , Mr. Hobbs ? Cedric inquired , or earls ? No , answered Mr. Hobbs , with indignation I guess not . 
Perhaps they wouldn't be earls if they knew any better , said Cedric , feeling some vague sympathy for their unhappy condition . 
Wouldn't they ! said Mr. Hobbs . 
They just glory in it ! It's in 'em . 
They were in the midst of their conversation , when Mary appeared . 
Cedric thought she had come to buy some sugar , perhaps , but she had not . 
She looked almost pale and as if she were excited about something . 
Come home , darlint , she said the misthress is wantin' yez . 
Cedric slipped down from his stool . 
Does she want me to go out with her , Mary ? he asked . 
Good morning , Mr. Hobbs . 
He was surprised to see Mary staring at him in a dumfounded fashion , and he wondered why she kept shaking her head . 
What's the matter , Mary ? he said . 
Is it the hot weather ? No , said Mary but there's strange things happenin' to us . 
Has the sun given Dearest a headache ? he inquired anxiously . 
But it was not that . 
When he reached his own house there was a coupe standing before the door . 
and some one was in the little parlor talking to his mamma . 
Mary hurried him upstairs and put on his best summer suit of cream colored flannel , with the red scarf around his waist , and combed out his curly locks . 
Lords , is it ? he heard her say . 
An' the nobility an' gintry . 
Och ! bad cess to them ! Lords , indade worse luck . 
It was really very puzzling , but he felt sure his mamma would tell him what all the excitement meant , so he allowed Mary to bemoan herself without asking many questions . 
When he was dressed , he ran downstairs and went into the parlor . 
A tall , thin old gentleman with a sharp face was sitting in an arm chair . 
His mother was standing near by with a pale face , and he saw that there were tears in her eyes . 
Oh ! Ceddie ! she cried out , and ran to her little boy and caught him in her arms and kissed him in a frightened , troubled way . 
Oh ! Ceddie , darling ! The tall old gentleman rose from his chair and looked at Cedric with his sharp eyes . 
He rubbed his thin chin with his bony hand as he looked . 
He seemed not at all displeased . 
And so , he said at last , slowly , and so this is little Lord Fauntleroy . 
II There was never a more amazed little boy than Cedric during the week that followed there was never so strange or so unreal a week . 
In the first place , the story his mamma told him was a very curious one . 
He was obliged to hear it two or three times before he could understand it . 
He could not imagine what Mr. Hobbs would think of it . 
He turned quite pale when he was first told of it . 
Oh ! Dearest ! he said , I should rather not be an earl . 
None of the boys are earls . 
Can't I NOT be one ? But it seemed to be unavoidable . 
And when , that evening , they sat together by the open window looking out into the shabby street , he and his mother had a long talk about it . 
Cedric sat on his footstool , clasping one knee in his favorite attitude and wearing a bewildered little face rather red from the exertion of thinking . 
His grandfather had sent for him to come to England , and his mamma thought he must go . 
Because , she said , looking out of the window with sorrowful eyes , I know your papa would wish it to be so , Ceddie . 
He loved his home very much and there are many things to be thought of that a little boy can't quite understand . 
I should be a selfish little mother if I did not send you . 
When you are a man , you will see why . 
Ceddie shook his head mournfully . 
I shall be very sorry to leave Mr. Hobbs , he said . 
I'm afraid he'll miss me , and I shall miss him . 
And I shall miss them all . 
He was troubled about his friend , Mr. Hobbs , and he went to see him at the store soon after breakfast , in great anxiety of mind . 
He found him reading the morning paper , and he approached him with a grave demeanor . 
Hello ! said Mr. Hobbs . 
Mornin' ! Good morning , said Cedric . 
Hello ! he said again . 
Cedric gathered all his strength of mind together . 
Mr. Hobbs , he said , do you remember what we were talking about yesterday morning ? Well , replied Mr. Hobbs , seems to me it was England . 
Yes , said Cedric but just when Mary came for me , you know ? Mr. Hobbs rubbed the back of his head . 
We WAS mentioning Queen Victoria and the aristocracy . 
Nothing so embarrassing as this had ever happened to him in his life . 
He was a little afraid that it might be a trifle embarrassing to Mr. Hobbs , too . 
You said , he proceeded , that you wouldn't have them sitting 'round on your cracker barrels . 
So I did ! returned Mr. Hobbs , stoutly . 
Let 'em try it that's all ! Mr. Hobbs , said Cedric , one is sitting on this box now ! Mr. Hobbs almost jumped out of his chair . 
Yes , Cedric announced , with due modesty I am one or I am going to be . 
He rose up suddenly and went to look at the thermometer . 
The mercury's got into your head ! he exclaimed , turning back to examine his young friend's countenance . 
This was more embarrassing than ever . 
Thank you , said Ceddie I'm all right . 
There is nothing the matter with my head . 
I'm sorry to say it's true , Mr. Hobbs . 
That was what Mary came to take me home for . 
Mr. Havisham was telling my mamma , and he is a lawyer . 
Mr. Hobbs sank into his chair and mopped his forehead with his handkerchief . 
ONE of us has got a sunstroke ! he exclaimed . 
No , returned Cedric , we haven't . 
We shall have to make the best of it , Mr. Hobbs . 
Mr. Havisham came all the way from England to tell us about it . 
Mr. Hobbs stared wildly at the innocent , serious little face before him . 
Who is your grandfather ? he asked . 
Cedric put his hand in his pocket and carefully drew out a piece of paper , on which something was written in his own round , irregular hand . 
I couldn't easily remember it , so I wrote it down on this , he said . 
And he read aloud slowly John Arthur Molyneux Errol , Earl of Dorincourt . 
That is his name , and he lives in a castle in two or three castles , I think . 
Mr. Hobbs seemed to grow hotter and hotter . 
He mopped his forehead and his bald spot and breathed hard . 
He was all the more bewildered because Cedric gave it with such ingenuous simplicity , and plainly without realizing himself how stupendous it was . 
Wha what did you say your name was ? Mr. Hobbs inquired . 
It's Cedric Errol , Lord Fauntleroy , answered Cedric . 
That was what Mr. Havisham called me . 
He could think of nothing else to say just at that puzzling moment . 
Cedric felt it to be quite a proper and suitable ejaculation . 
His respect and affection for Mr. Hobbs were so great that he admired and approved of all his remarks . 
He had not seen enough of society as yet to make him realize that sometimes Mr. Hobbs was not quite conventional . 
He looked at Mr. Hobbs wistfully . 
England is a long way off , isn't it ? he asked . 
It's across the Atlantic Ocean , Mr. Hobbs answered . 
That's the worst of it , said Cedric . 
Perhaps I shall not see you again for a long time . 
I don't like to think of that , Mr. Hobbs . 
The best of friends must part , said Mr. Hobbs . 
Well , said Cedric , we have been friends for a great many years , haven't we ? Ever since you was born , Mr. Hobbs answered . 
You was about six weeks old when you was first walked out on this street . 
My mamma says that my papa would wish me to do it . 
But if I have to be an earl , there's one thing I can do I can try to be a good one . 
I'm not going to be a tyrant . 
And if there is ever to be another war with America , I shall try to stop it . 
His conversation with Mr. Hobbs was a long and serious one . 
But then there were many things which astonished Mr. Havisham . 
He had spent all his life in England , and was not accustomed to American people and American habits . 
He insisted that she was only a common American girl , who had entrapped his son into marrying her because she knew he was an earl's son . 
The old lawyer himself had more than half believed this was all true . 
He had seen a great many selfish , mercenary people in his life , and he had not a good opinion of Americans . 
When he had been driven into the cheap street , and his coupe had stopped before the cheap , small house , he had felt actually shocked . 
He wondered what kind of a child he would be , and what kind of a mother he had . 
He rather shrank from seeing them both . 
When Mary handed him into the small parlor , he looked around it critically . 
and about the room were many pretty things which a woman's hand might have made . 
Not at all bad so far , he had said to himself but perhaps the Captain's taste predominated . 
But when Mrs. Errol came into the room , he began to think she herself might have had something to do with it . 
If he had not been quite a self contained and stiff old gentleman , he would probably have started when he saw her . 
She looked , in the simple black dress , fitting closely to her slender figure , more like a young girl than the mother of a boy of seven . 
The Captain had been a handsome fellow , and the young mother was very pretty , and perhaps the boy might be well enough to look at . 
When he first told Mrs. Errol what he had come for , she turned very pale . 
I have tried to be a good mother to him . 
And her sweet young voice trembled , and the tears rushed into her eyes . 
You do not know what he has been to me ! she said . 
The lawyer cleared his throat . 
I am obliged to tell you , he said , that the Earl of Dorincourt is not is not very friendly toward you . 
He is an old man , and his prejudices are very strong . 
He has always especially disliked America and Americans , and was very much enraged by his son's marriage . 
I am sorry to be the bearer of so unpleasant a communication , but he is very fixed in his determination not to see you . 
His plan is that Lord Fauntleroy shall be educated under his own supervision that he shall live with him . 
The Earl is attached to Dorincourt Castle , and spends a great deal of time there . 
He is a victim to inflammatory gout , and is not fond of London . 
Lord Fauntleroy will , therefore , be likely to live chiefly at Dorincourt . 
The Earl offers you as a home Court Lodge , which is situated pleasantly , and is not very far from the castle . 
He also offers you a suitable income . 
Lord Fauntleroy will be permitted to visit you the only stipulation is , that you shall not visit him or enter the park gates . 
You see you will not be really separated from your son , and I assure you , madam , the terms are not so harsh as as they might have been . 
The advantage of such surroundings and education as Lord Fauntleroy will have , I am sure you must see , will be very great . 
He felt a little uneasy lest she should begin to cry or make a scene , as he knew some women would have done . 
It embarrassed and annoyed him to see women cry . 
She went to the window and stood with her face turned away for a few moments , and he saw she was trying to steady herself . 
Captain Errol was very fond of Dorincourt , she said at last . 
He loved England , and everything English . 
It was always a grief to him that he was parted from his home . 
He was proud of his home , and of his name . 
Then she came back to the table and stood looking up at Mr. Havisham very gently . 
My husband would wish it , she said . 
It will be best for my little boy . 
He has a warm , faithful nature , and a true heart . 
He would love me even if he did not see me and so long as we may see each other , I ought not to suffer very much . 
She thinks very little of herself , the lawyer thought . 
She does not make any terms for herself . 
Madam , he said aloud , I respect your consideration for your son . 
He will thank you for it when he is a man . 
I assure you Lord Fauntleroy will be most carefully guarded , and every effort will be used to insure his happiness . 
The Earl of Dorincourt will be as anxious for his comfort and well being as you yourself could be . 
I hope , said the tender little mother , in a rather broken voice , that his grandfather will love Ceddie . 
The little boy has a very affectionate nature and he has always been loved . 
Mr. Havisham cleared his throat again . 
He knew , too , that if Ceddie were at all a credit to his name , his grandfather would be proud of him . 
Lord Fauntleroy will be comfortable , I am sure , he replied . 
It was with a view to his happiness that the Earl desired that you should be near enough to him to see him frequently . 
He did not think it would be discreet to repeat the exact words the Earl had used , which were in fact neither polite nor amiable . 
Mr. Havisham preferred to express his noble patron's offer in smoother and more courteous language . 
He had another slight shock when Mrs. Errol asked Mary to find her little boy and bring him to her , and Mary told her where he was . 
Mr. Hobbs has known him all his life , Mrs. Errol said to the lawyer . 
He is very kind to Ceddie , and there is a great friendship between them . 
In England , gentlemen's sons did not make friends of grocerymen , and it seemed to him a rather singular proceeding . 
It would be very awkward if the child had bad manners and a disposition to like low company . 
One of the bitterest humiliations of the old Earl's life had been that his two elder sons had been fond of low company . 
When the door opened , he actually hesitated a moment before looking at Cedric . 
He experienced a revulsion of feeling which was quite exciting . 
He recognized in an instant that here was one of the finest and handsomest little fellows he had ever seen . 
His beauty was something unusual . 
They were innocently fearless eyes he looked as if he had never feared or doubted anything in his life . 
He is the best bred looking and handsomest little fellow I ever saw , was what Mr. Havisham thought . 
What he said aloud was simply , And so this is little Lord Fauntleroy . 
And , after this , the more he saw of little Lord Fauntleroy , the more of a surprise he found him . 
Cedric did not know he was being observed , and he only behaved himself in his ordinary manner . 
He seems to be a very mature little fellow , Mr. Havisham said to the mother . 
I think he is , in some things , she answered . 
He has always been very quick to learn , and he has lived a great deal with grownup people . 
He has a funny little habit of using long words and expressions he has read in books , or has heard others use , but he is very fond of childish play . 
I think he is rather clever , but he is a very boyish little boy , sometimes . 
The next time Mr. Havisham met him , he saw that this last was quite true . 
As his coupe turned the corner , he caught sight of a group of small boys , who were evidently much excited . 
He stood side by side with another boy , one little red leg advanced a step . 
One , to make ready ! yelled the starter . 
Two , to be steady . 
Three and away ! Mr. Havisham found himself leaning out of the window of his coupe with a curious feeling of interest . 
He shut his small hands and set his face against the wind his bright hair streamed out behind . 
Hooray , Ced Errol ! all the boys shouted , dancing and shrieking with excitement . 
Hooray , Billy Williams ! Hooray , Ceddie ! Hooray , Billy ! Hooray ! 'Ray ! 'Ray ! I really believe he is going to win , said Mr. Havisham . 
I really I really can't help hoping he will win ! he said , with an apologetic sort of cough . 
At that moment , the wildest yell of all went up from the dancing , hopping boys . 
Three cheers for Ceddie Errol ! yelled the little boys . 
Hooray for Ceddie Errol ! Mr. Havisham drew his head in at the window of his coupe and leaned back with a dry smile . 
Bravo , Lord Fauntleroy ! he said . 
As his carriage stopped before the door of Mrs. Errol's house , the victor and the vanquished were coming toward it , attended by the clamoring crew . 
Cedric walked by Billy Williams and was speaking to him . 
His elated little face was very red , his curls clung to his hot , moist forehead , his hands were in his pockets . 
You see , he was saying , evidently with the intention of making defeat easy for his unsuccessful rival , I guess I won because my legs are a little longer than yours . 
I guess that was it . 
You see , I'm three days older than you , and that gives me a 'vantage . 
Somehow , Ceddie Errol had a way of making people feel comfortable . 
Mrs. Errol had been called out of the parlor , and the lawyer and Cedric were left together . 
At first Mr. Havisham wondered what he should say to his small companion . 
He did not even know yet that his mother was not to live in the same house with him . 
They had thought it best to let him get over the first shock before telling him . 
He had been watching Mr. Havisham very steadily when his mamma had been in the room , and after she was gone he still looked at him in respectful thoughtfulness . 
There was a short silence after Mrs. Errol went out , and Cedric seemed to be studying Mr. Havisham , and Mr. Havisham was certainly studying Cedric . 
But Cedric relieved him by suddenly beginning the conversation himself . 
Do you know , he said , I don't know what an earl is ? Don't you ? said Mr. Havisham . 
And I think when a boy is going to be one , he ought to know . 
Don't you ? Well yes , answered Mr. Havisham . 
What made him an earl ? A king or queen , in the first place , said Mr. Havisham . 
Generally , he is made an earl because he has done some service to his sovereign , or some great deed . 
Oh ! said Cedric that's like the President . 
Is it ? said Mr. Havisham . 
Is that why your presidents are elected ? Yes , answered Ceddie cheerfully . 
When a man is very good and knows a great deal , he is elected president . 
They have torch light processions and bands , and everybody makes speeches . 
I used to think I might perhaps be a president , but I never thought of being an earl . 
Is it ? asked Cedric . 
How ? Are there no torch light processions ? Mr. Havisham crossed his own legs and put the tips of his fingers carefully together . 
He thought perhaps the time had come to explain matters rather more clearly . 
An earl is is a very important person , he began . 
So is a president ! put in Ceddie . 
The torch light processions are five miles long , and they shoot up rockets , and the band plays ! Mr. Hobbs took me to see them . 
An earl , Mr. Havisham went on , feeling rather uncertain of his ground , is frequently of very ancient lineage What's that ? asked Ceddie . 
Of very old family extremely old . 
Ah ! said Cedric , thrusting his hands deeper into his pockets . 
I suppose that is the way with the apple woman near the park . 
I dare say she is of ancient lin lenage . 
She is so old it would surprise you how she can stand up . 
She's a hundred , I should think , and yet she is out there when it rains , even . 
I'm sorry for her , and so are the other boys . 
Billy Williams once had nearly a dollar , and I asked him to buy five cents' worth of apples from her every day until he had spent it all . 
That made twenty days , and he grew tired of apples after a week but then it was quite fortunate a gentleman gave me fifty cents and I bought apples from her instead . 
You feel sorry for any one that's so poor and has such ancient lin lenage . 
She says hers has gone into her bones and the rain makes it worse . 
Mr. Havisham felt rather at a loss as he looked at his companion's innocent , serious little face . 
I am afraid you did not quite understand me , he explained . 
Like George Washington , said Ceddie . 
I've heard of him ever since I was born , and he was known about , long before that . 
Mr. Hobbs says he will never be forgotten . 
That's because of the Declaration of Independence , you know , and the Fourth of July . 
You see , he was a very brave man . 
The first Earl of Dorincourt , said Mr. Havisham solemnly , was created an earl four hundred years ago . 
Well , well ! said Ceddie . 
That was a long time ago ! Did you tell Dearest that ? It would int'rust her very much . 
We'll tell her when she comes in . 
She always likes to hear cur'us things . 
What else does an earl do besides being created ? A great many of them have helped to govern England . 
Some of them have been brave men and have fought in great battles in the old days . 
I should like to do that myself , said Cedric . 
My papa was a soldier , and he was a very brave man as brave as George Washington . 
Perhaps that was because he would have been an earl if he hadn't died . 
I am glad earls are brave . 
That's a great 'vantage to be a brave man . 
Once I used to be rather afraid of things in the dark , you know but when I thought about the soldiers in the Revolution and George Washington it cured me . 
There is another advantage in being an earl , sometimes , said Mr. Havisham slowly , and he fixed his shrewd eyes on the little boy with a rather curious expression . 
Some earls have a great deal of money . 
He was curious because he wondered if his young friend knew what the power of money was . 
That's a good thing to have , said Ceddie innocently . 
I wish I had a great deal of money . 
Do you ? said Mr. Havisham . 
And why ? Well , explained Cedric , there are so many things a person can do with money . 
You see , there's the apple woman . 
And then oh ! I'd give her a shawl . 
And , you see , her bones wouldn't feel so badly . 
Her bones are not like our bones they hurt her when she moves . 
It's very painful when your bones hurt you . 
If I were rich enough to do all those things for her , I guess her bones would be all right . 
Ahem ! said Mr. Havisham . 
And what else would you do if you were rich ? Oh ! I'd do a great many things . 
If she liked pink silk dresses , I should buy her some , but she likes black best . 
But I'd , take her to the big stores , and tell her to look 'round and choose for herself . 
And then Dick Who is Dick ? asked Mr. Havisham . 
Dick is a boot black , said his young lordship , quite warming up in his interest in plans so exciting . 
He is one of the nicest boot blacks you ever knew . 
He stands at the corner of a street down town . 
I've known him for years . 
So Dearest admired him very much , and so did I , and ever since then , when we go down town , we talk to him . 
He says Hello ! and I say Hello ! and then we talk a little , and he tells me how trade is . 
And what would you like to do for him ? inquired the lawyer , rubbing his chin and smiling a queer smile . 
Well , said Lord Fauntleroy , settling himself in his chair with a business air , I'd buy Jake out . 
And who is Jake ? Mr. Havisham asked . 
He's Dick's partner , and he is the worst partner a fellow could have ! Dick says so . 
He isn't a credit to the business , and he isn't square . 
He cheats , and that makes Dick mad . 
People like Dick , but they don't like Jake , and so sometimes they don't come twice . 
He says all he wants is to start out fair . 
He seemed to feel not a shade of a doubt that his elderly companion would be just as interested as he was himself . 
Is there anything he began . 
She comes here and cries , and Dearest gives her things in a basket , and then she cries again , and says Blessin's be on yez , for a beautiful lady . 
And I think Mr. Hobbs would like a gold watch and chain to remember me by , and a meerschaum pipe . 
And then I'd like to get up a company . 
A company ! exclaimed Mr. Havisham . 
Like a Republican rally , explained Cedric , becoming quite excited . 
I'd have torches and uniforms and things for all the boys and myself , too . 
And we'd march , you know , and drill . 
That's what I should like for myself , if I were rich . 
The door opened and Mrs. Errol came in . 
I am sorry to have been obliged to leave you so long , she said to Mr. Havisham but a poor woman , who is in great trouble , came to see me . 
This young gentleman , said Mr. Havisham , has been telling me about some of his friends , and what he would do for them if he were rich . 
Bridget is one of his friends , said Mrs. Errol and it is Bridget to whom I have been talking in the kitchen . 
She is in great trouble now because her husband has rheumatic fever . 
Cedric slipped down out of his big chair . 
I think I'll go and see her , he said , and ask her how he is . 
He's a nice man when he is well . 
I'm obliged to him because he once made me a sword out of wood . 
He's a very talented man . 
He ran out of the room , and Mr. Havisham rose from his chair . 
He seemed to have something in his mind which he wished to speak of . 
He is desirous that his grandson should look forward with some pleasure to his future life in England , and also to his acquaintance with himself . 
For the second time , he did not repeat the Earl's exact words . 
His lordship had , indeed , said Make the lad understand that I can give him anything he wants . 
Let him know what it is to be the grandson of the Earl of Dorincourt . 
Buy him everything he takes a fancy to let him have money in his pockets , and tell him his grandfather put it there . 
His motives were far from being good , and if he had been dealing with a nature less affectionate and warm hearted than little Lord Fauntleroy's , great harm might have been done . 
And Cedric's mother was too gentle to suspect any harm . 
And it pleased her very much to think that Ceddie would be able to help Bridget . 
It made her happier to know that the very first result of the strange fortune which had befallen her little boy was that he could do kind things for those who needed kindness . 
Quite a warm color bloomed on her pretty young face . 
Oh ! she said , that was very kind of the Earl Cedric will be so glad ! He has always been fond of Bridget and Michael . 
I have often wished I had been able to help them more . 
Michael is a hard working man when he is well , but he has been ill a long time and needs expensive medicines and warm clothing and nourishing food . 
He and Bridget will not be wasteful of what is given them . 
Mr. Havisham put his thin hand in his breast pocket and drew forth a large pocket book . 
There was a queer look in his keen face . 
The truth was , he was wondering what the Earl of Dorincourt would say when he was told what was the first wish of his grandson that had been granted . 
He wondered what the cross , worldly , selfish old nobleman would think of it . 
I do not know that you have realized , he said , that the Earl of Dorincourt is an exceedingly rich man . 
He can afford to gratify any caprice . 
I think it would please him to know that Lord Fauntleroy had been indulged in any fancy . 
If you will call him back and allow me , I shall give him five pounds for these people . 
That would be twenty five dollars ! exclaimed Mrs. Errol . 
It will seem like wealth to them . 
I can scarcely believe that it is true . 
It is quite true , said Mr. Havisham , with his dry smile . 
A great change has taken place in your son's life , a great deal of power will lie in his hands . 
Oh ! cried his mother . 
And he is such a little boy a very little boy . 
How can I teach him to use it well ? It makes me half afraid . 
My pretty little Ceddie ! The lawyer slightly cleared his throat . 
It touched his worldly , hard old heart to see the tender , timid look in her brown eyes . 
He is only a child yet , but I think he may be trusted . 
Then his mother went for Cedric and brought him back into the parlor . 
Mr. Havisham heard him talking before he entered the room . 
It's infam natory rheumatism , he was saying , and that's a kind of rheumatism that's dreadful . 
And he thinks about the rent not being paid , and Bridget says that makes the inf'ammation worse . 
And Pat could get a place in a store if he had some clothes . 
His little face looked quite anxious when he came in . 
He was very sorry for Bridget . 
Dearest said you wanted me , he said to Mr. Havisham . 
I've been talking to Bridget . 
Mr. Havisham looked down at him a moment . 
He felt a little awkward and undecided . 
As Cedric's mother had said , he was a very little boy . 
The Earl of Dorincourt he began , and then he glanced involuntarily at Mrs. Errol . 
Little Lord Fauntleroy's mother suddenly kneeled down by him and put both her tender arms around his childish body . 
Ceddie , she said , the Earl is your grandpapa , your own papa's father . 
He is very , very kind , and he loves you and wishes you to love him , because the sons who were his little boys are dead . 
He wishes you to be happy and to make other people happy . 
He is very rich , and he wishes you to have everything you would like to have . 
He told Mr. Havisham so , and gave him a great deal of money for you . 
You can give some to Bridget now enough to pay her rent and buy Michael everything . 
Isn't that fine , Ceddie ? Isn't he good ? And she kissed the child on his round cheek , where the bright color suddenly flashed up in his excited amazement . 
He looked from his mother to Mr. Havisham . 
Can I have it now ? he cried . 
Can I give it to her this minute ? She's just going . 
Mr. Havisham handed him the money . 
It was in fresh , clean greenbacks and made a neat roll . 
Ceddie flew out of the room with it . 
Bridget ! they heard him shout , as he tore into the kitchen . 
Bridget , wait a minute ! Here's some money . 
It's for you , and you can pay the rent . 
My grandpapa gave it to me . 
It's for you and Michael ! Oh , Master Ceddie ! cried Bridget , in an awe stricken voice . 
It's twinty foive dollars is here . 
Where be's the misthress ? I think I shall have to go and explain it to her , Mrs. Errol said . 
So she , too , went out of the room and Mr. Havisham was left alone for a while . 
He went to the window and stood looking out into the street reflectively . 
In spite of all his splendor , there was never a more unpopular old nobleman than the Earl of Dorincourt , and there could scarcely have been a more lonely one . 
He could fill his castle with guests if he chose . 
Mr. Havisham knew his hard , fierce ways by heart , and he was thinking of him as he looked out of the window into the narrow , quiet street . 
It will make a great difference , he said to himself . 
It will make a great difference . 
Cedric and his mother came back soon after . 
Cedric was in high spirits . 
He sat down in his own chair , between his mother and the lawyer , and fell into one of his quaint attitudes , with his hands on his knees . 
He was glowing with enjoyment of Bridget's relief and rapture . 
She cried ! he said . 
She said she was crying for joy ! I never saw any one cry for joy before . 
My grandpapa must be a very good man . 
I didn't know he was so good a man . 
It's more more agreeabler to be an earl than I thought it was . 
I'm almost glad I'm almost QUITE glad I'm going to be one . 
III Cedric's good opinion of the advantages of being an earl increased greatly during the next week . 
In the week before they sailed for England he did many curious things . 
For I have to go to England and be a lord , explained Cedric , sweet temperedly . 
And I shouldn't like to have your bones on my mind every time it rained . 
Once , when I fell down and cut my knee , she gave me an apple for nothing . 
I've always remembered her for it . 
You know you always remember people who are kind to you . 
It had never occurred to his honest , simple little mind that there were people who could forget kindnesses . 
The interview with Dick was quite exciting . 
Dick had just been having a great deal of trouble with Jake , and was in low spirits when they saw him . 
Lord Fauntleroy's manner of announcing the object of his visit was very simple and unceremonious . 
Mr. Havisham was much impressed by its directness as he stood by and listened . 
When he picked it up , he uttered a rather singular exclamation . 
Mr. Havisham thought it singular , but Cedric had heard it before . 
I soy ! he said , what're yer givin' us ? This plainly embarrassed his lordship a little , but he bore himself bravely . 
Everybody thinks it not true at first , he said . 
Mr. Hobbs thought I'd had a sunstroke . 
I didn't think I was going to like it myself , but I like it better now I'm used to it . 
The one who is the earl now , he's my grandpapa and he wants me to do anything I like . 
He's very kind , if he IS an earl and he sent me a lot of money by Mr. Havisham , and I've brought some to you to buy Jake out . 
And the end of the matter was that Dick actually bought Jake out , and found himself the possessor of the business and some new brushes and a most astonishing sign and outfit . 
He scarcely seemed to realize anything until Cedric put out his hand to shake hands with him before going away . 
Well , good bye , he said and though he tried to speak steadily , there was a little tremble in his voice and he winked his big brown eyes . 
And I hope trade'll be good . 
I'm sorry I'm going away to leave you , but perhaps I shall come back again when I'm an earl . 
And I wish you'd write to me , because we were always good friends . 
And if you write to me , here's where you must send your letter . 
And he gave him a slip of paper . 
And my name isn't Cedric Errol any more it's Lord Fauntleroy and and good bye , Dick . 
Dick winked his eyes also , and yet they looked rather moist about the lashes . 
I wish ye wasn't goin' away , he said in a husky voice . 
Then he winked his eyes again . 
Then he looked at Mr. Havisham , and touched his cap . 
Thanky , sir , fur bringin' him down here an' fur wot ye've done , He's he's a queer little feller , he added . 
I've allers thort a heap of him . 
He's such a game little feller , an' an' such a queer little un . 
Until the day of his departure , his lordship spent as much time as possible with Mr. Hobbs in the store . 
Gloom had settled upon Mr. Hobbs he was much depressed in spirits . 
When his young friend brought to him in triumph the parting gift of a gold watch and chain , Mr. Hobbs found it difficult to acknowledge it properly . 
He laid the case on his stout knee , and blew his nose violently several times . 
There's something written on it , said Cedric , inside the case . 
I told the man myself what to say . 
From his oldest friend , Lord Fauntleroy , to Mr. Hobbs . 
When this you see , remember me . 
I don't want you to forget me . 
Mr. Hobbs blew his nose very loudly again . 
I sha'n't forget you , he said , speaking a trifle huskily , as Dick had spoken nor don't you go and forget me when you get among the British arrystocracy . 
I shouldn't forget you , whoever I was among , answered his lordship . 
I've spent my happiest hours with you at least , some of my happiest hours . 
I hope you'll come to see me sometime . 
I'm sure my grandpapa would be very much pleased . 
Perhaps he'll write and ask you , when I tell him about you . 
At last all the preparations were complete the day came when the trunks were taken to the steamer , and the hour arrived when the carriage stood at the door . 
Then a curious feeling of loneliness came upon the little boy . 
His mamma had been shut up in her room for some time when she came down the stairs , her eyes looked large and wet , and her sweet mouth was trembling . 
Cedric went to her , and she bent down to him , and he put his arms around her , and they kissed each other . 
He knew something made them both sorry , though he scarcely knew what it was but one tender little thought rose to his lips . 
We liked this little house , Dearest , didn't we ? he said . 
We always will like it , won't we ? Yes yes , she answered , in a low , sweet voice . 
Some one was hurriedly forcing his way through this group and coming toward him . 
It was a boy , with something red in his hand . 
He came up to Cedric quite breathless . 
I've run all the way , he said . 
I've come down to see ye off . 
Trade's been prime ! I bought this for ye out o' what I made yesterday . 
Ye kin wear it when ye get among the swells . 
I lost the paper when I was tryin' to get through them fellers downstairs . 
They didn't want to let me up . 
He poured it all forth as if in one sentence . 
A bell rang , and he made a leap away before Cedric had time to speak . 
Good bye ! he panted . 
Wear it when ye get among the swells . 
And he darted off and was gone . 
A few seconds later they saw him struggle through the crowd on the lower deck , and rush on shore just before the gang plank was drawn in . 
He stood on the wharf and waved his cap . 
Cedric held the handkerchief in his hand . 
It was of bright red silk ornamented with purple horseshoes and horses' heads . 
There was a great straining and creaking and confusion . 
Write when you get to Liverpool . 
Good bye ! Good bye ! Little Lord Fauntleroy leaned forward and waved the red handkerchief . 
Good bye , Dick ! he shouted , lustily . 
Your papa has often told me about it . 
He loved it very much and you will love it too . 
I should love it better if you were there , his small lordship said , with a heavy little sigh . 
He could not but feel puzzled by so strange a state of affairs , which could put his Dearest in one house and himself in another . 
The fact was that Mrs. Errol had thought it better not to tell him why this plan had been made . 
I should prefer he should not be told , she said to Mr. Havisham . 
He has never seen hatred or hardness , and it would be a great blow to him to find out that any one could hate me . 
It would make a barrier between them , even though Ceddie is such a child . 
I don't like it , he said once as he was having one of his almost venerable talks with the lawyer . 
You don't know how much I don't like it but there are a great many troubles in this world , and you have to bear them . 
Mary says so , and I've heard Mr. Hobbs say it too . 
And Dearest wants me to like to live with my grandpapa , because , you see , all his children are dead , and that's very mournful . 
It makes you sorry for a man , when all his children have died and one was killed suddenly . 
Gradually Mr. Havisham had begun to derive a great deal of private pleasure and amusement from his society . 
And so you are going to try to like the Earl , he said . 
Yes , answered his lordship . 
He's my relation , and of course you have to like your relations and besides , he's been very kind to me . 
Oh ! remarked the lawyer , that's it , is it ? Yes , said Cedric , that's it . 
Don't you think that's it , too ? Of course a man would be fond of his grandson . 
Every one liked him he made friends everywhere . 
He was ever ready to make friends . 
He had picked up this sea faring remark from an elderly naval man of the name of Jerry , who told him stories in which it occurred frequently . 
Judging , also , by these same exciting adventures , he had been partially roasted and eaten frequently and had been scalped some fifteen or twenty times . 
That is why he is so bald , explained Lord Fauntleroy to his mamma . 
After you have been scalped several times the hair never grows again . 
Jerry's never grew again after that last time , when the King of the Parromachaweekins did it with the knife made out of the skull of the Chief of the Wopslemumpkies . 
He says it was one of the most serious times he ever had . 
Jerry's stories int'rust them very much , he said to his mamma . 
Being scalped a great many times might make a person forgetful . 
They could not see much of the house in the darkness . 
Mary had come with them to attend her mistress , and she had reached the house before them . 
When Cedric jumped out of the carriage he saw one or two servants standing in the wide , bright hall , and Mary stood in the door way . 
Lord Fauntleroy sprang at her with a gay little shout . 
Did you get here , Mary ? he said . 
Here's Mary , Dearest , and he kissed the maid on her rough red cheek . 
I am glad you are here , Mary , Mrs. Errol said to her in a low voice . 
It is such a comfort to me to see you . 
It takes the strangeness away . 
And she held out her little hand , which Mary squeezed encouragingly . 
She knew how this first strangeness must feel to this little mother who had left her own land and was about to give up her child . 
The English servants looked with curiosity at both the boy and his mother . 
He'll have no easy time of it , poor little chap , they had said among themselves . 
But they did not know what sort of a little lord had come among them they did not quite understand the character of the next Earl of Dorincourt . 
He pulled off his overcoat quite as if he were used to doing things for himself , and began to look about him . 
He looked about the broad hall , at the pictures and stags' antlers and curious things that ornamented it . 
They seemed curious to him because he had never seen such things before in a private house . 
Dearest , he said , this is a very pretty house , isn't it ? I am glad you are going to live here . 
It's quite a large house . 
It was quite a large house compared to the one in the shabby New York street , and it was very pretty and cheerful . 
Mary led them upstairs to a bright chintz hung bedroom where a fire was burning , and a large snow white Persian cat was sleeping luxuriously on the white fur hearth rug . 
It was the house kaper up at the Castle , ma'am , sint her to yez , explained Mary . 
It's herself is a kind hearted lady an' has had iverything done to prepar' fur yez . 
An' ses I to her , ses I He's lift a bye that's loike him , ma'am , fur a foiner little felly niver sthipped in shoe leather . 
There was a great tiger skin before the fire , and an arm chair on each side of it . 
Cedric was so pleased that he put his head down by hers , and lay stroking her , not noticing what his mother and Mr. Havisham were saying . 
They were , indeed , speaking in a rather low tone . 
Mrs. Errol looked a little pale and agitated . 
He need not go to night ? she said . 
He will stay with me to night ? Yes , answered Mr. Havisham in the same low tone it will not be necessary for him to go to night . 
I myself will go to the Castle as soon as we have dined , and inform the Earl of our arrival . 
Mrs. Errol glanced down at Cedric . 
His lordship does not know all that he is taking from me , she said rather sadly . 
Then she looked at the lawyer . 
Will you tell him , if you please , she said , that I should rather not have the money ? The money ! Mr. Havisham exclaimed . 
You can not mean the income he proposed to settle upon you ! Yes , she answered , quite simply I think I should rather not have it . 
As he dislikes me so much , I should feel a little as if I were selling Cedric to him . 
I am giving him up only because I love him enough to forget myself for his good , and because his father would wish it to be so . 
Mr. Havisham rubbed his chin . 
This is very strange , he said . 
He will be very angry . 
I think he will understand it after he thinks it over , she said . 
I will deliver your message , he said afterward . 
And then the dinner was brought in and they sat down together , the big cat taking a seat on a chair near Cedric's and purring majestically throughout the meal . 
When , later in the evening , Mr. Havisham presented himself at the Castle , he was taken at once to the Earl . 
He found him sitting by the fire in a luxurious easy chair , his foot on a gout stool . 
He looked at the lawyer sharply from under his shaggy eyebrows , but Mr. Havisham could see that , in spite of his pretense at calmness , he was nervous and secretly excited . 
Well , he said well , Havisham , come back , have you ? What's the news ? Lord Fauntleroy and his mother are at Court Lodge , replied Mr. Havisham . 
They bore the voyage very well and are in excellent health . 
The Earl made a half impatient sound and moved his hand restlessly . 
Glad to hear it , he said brusquely . 
So far , so good . 
Have a glass of wine and settle down . 
What else ? His lordship remains with his mother to night . 
To morrow I will bring him to the Castle . 
The Earl's elbow was resting on the arm of his chair he put his hand up and shielded his eyes with it . 
Well , he said go on . 
You know I told you not to write to me about the matter , and I know nothing whatever about it . 
It is rather difficult to judge of the character of a child of seven , he said cautiously . 
The Earl's prejudices were very intense . 
He looked up quickly and uttered a rough word . 
A fool , is he ? he exclaimed . 
I don't know much about children , but I thought him rather a fine lad . 
His manner of speech was always deliberate and unenthusiastic , but he made it a trifle more so than usual . 
He had a shrewd fancy that it would be better that the Earl should judge for himself , and be quite unprepared for his first interview with his grandson . 
Healthy and well grown ? asked my lord . 
Apparently very healthy , and quite well grown , replied the lawyer . 
Straight limbed and well enough to look at ? demanded the Earl . 
A very slight smile touched Mr. Havisham's thin lips . 
Rather a handsome boy , I think , my lord , as boys go , he said , though I am scarcely a judge , perhaps . 
But you will find him somewhat different from most English children , I dare say . 
I haven't a doubt of that , snarled the Earl , a twinge of gout seizing him . 
A lot of impudent little beggars , those American children I've heard that often enough . 
It is not exactly impudence in his case , said Mr. Havisham . 
I can scarcely describe what the difference is . 
He has lived more with older people than with children , and the difference seems to be a mixture of maturity and childishness . 
American impudence ! protested the Earl . 
I've heard of it before . 
They call it precocity and freedom . 
Beastly , impudent bad manners that's what it is ! Mr. Havisham drank some more port . 
He seldom argued with his lordly patron , never when his lordly patron's noble leg was inflamed by gout . 
At such times it was always better to leave him alone . 
So there was a silence of a few moments . 
It was Mr. Havisham who broke it . 
I have a message to deliver from Mrs. Errol , he remarked . 
I don't want any of her messages ! growled his lordship the less I hear of her the better . 
This is a rather important one , explained the lawyer . 
She prefers not to accept the income you proposed to settle on her . 
What's that ? he cried out . 
What's that ? Mr. Havisham repeated his words . 
My lord , said Mr. Havisham , you can scarcely call her mercenary . 
She has asked for nothing . 
She does not accept the money you offer her . 
All done for effect ! snapped his noble lordship . 
She wants to wheedle me into seeing her . 
She thinks I shall admire her spirit . 
I don't admire it ! It's only American independence ! I won't have her living like a beggar at my park gates . 
As she's the boy's mother , she has a position to keep up , and she shall keep it up . 
She shall have the money , whether she likes it or not ! She won't spend it , said Mr. Havisham . 
I don't care whether she spends it or not ! blustered my lord . 
She shall have it sent to her . 
I have another message , which will prove to you that she has not done that . 
I don't want to hear it ! panted the Earl , out of breath with anger and excitement and gout . 
But Mr. Havisham delivered it . 
She asks you not to let Lord Fauntleroy hear anything which would lead him to understand that you separate him from her because of your prejudice against her . 
He is very fond of her , and she is convinced that it would cause a barrier to exist between you . 
She says he would not comprehend it , and it might make him fear you in some measure , or at least cause him to feel less affection for you . 
She has told him that he is too young to understand the reason , but shall hear it when he is older . 
She wishes that there should be no shadow on your first meeting . 
The Earl sank back into his chair . 
His deep set fierce old eyes gleamed under his beetling brows . 
Come , now ! he said , still breathlessly . 
Come , now ! You don't mean the mother hasn't told him ? Not one word , my lord , replied the lawyer coolly . 
That I can assure you . 
The child is prepared to believe you the most amiable and affectionate of grandparents . 
Nothing absolutely nothing has been said to him to give him the slightest doubt of your perfection . 
And as I carried out your commands in every detail , while in New York , he certainly regards you as a wonder of generosity . 
He does , eh ? said the Earl . 
I give you my word of honor , said Mr. Havisham , that Lord Fauntleroy's impressions of you will depend entirely upon yourself . 
Pooh , pooh ! said the Earl . 
The youngster is only seven years old ! He has spent those seven years at his mother's side , returned Mr. Havisham and she has all his affection . 
V It was late in the afternoon when the carriage containing little Lord Fauntleroy and Mr. Havisham drove up the long avenue which led to the castle . 
As the carriage rolled up the avenue , Lord Fauntleroy sat leaning comfortably against the luxurious cushions , and regarded the prospect with great interest . 
He was , in fact , interested in everything he saw . 
When the carriage reached the great gates of the park , he looked out of the window to get a good view of the huge stone lions ornamenting the entrance . 
The gates were opened by a motherly , rosy looking woman , who came out of a pretty , ivy covered lodge . 
Two children ran out of the door of the house and stood looking with round , wide open eyes at the little boy in the carriage , who looked at them also . 
Their mother stood courtesying and smiling , and the children , on receiving a sign from her , made bobbing little courtesies too . 
Does she know me ? asked Lord Fauntleroy . 
I think she must think she knows me . 
And he took off his black velvet cap to her and smiled . 
How do you do ? he said brightly . 
Good afternoon ! The woman seemed pleased , he thought . 
The smile broadened on her rosy face and a kind look came into her blue eyes . 
God bless your lordship ! she said . 
I like that woman , he said . 
She looks as if she liked boys . 
I should like to come here and play with her children . 
I wonder if she has enough to make up a company ? Mr. Havisham did not tell him that he would scarcely be allowed to make playmates of the gate keeper's children . 
The lawyer thought there was time enough for giving him that information . 
The carriage rolled on and on between the great , beautiful trees which grew on each side of the avenue and stretched their broad , swaying branches in an arch across it . 
Cedric had never seen such trees , they were so grand and stately , and their branches grew so low down on their huge trunks . 
But he did know that it was all very beautiful . 
He liked the big , broad branched trees , with the late afternoon sunlight striking golden lances through them . 
He liked the perfect stillness which rested on everything . 
Now and then they passed places where tall ferns grew in masses , and again and again the ground was azure with the bluebells swaying in the soft breeze . 
Several times he started up with a laugh of delight as a rabbit leaped up from under the greenery and scudded away with a twinkle of short white tail behind it . 
Once a covey of partridges rose with a sudden whir and flew away , and then he shouted and clapped his hands . 
It's a beautiful place , isn't it ? he said to Mr. Havisham . 
I never saw such a beautiful place . 
It's prettier even than Central Park . 
He was rather puzzled by the length of time they were on their way . 
How far is it , he said , at length , from the gate to the front door ? It is between three and four miles , answered the lawyer . 
That's a long way for a person to live from his gate , remarked his lordship . 
Every few minutes he saw something new to wonder at and admire . 
Has there been a circus ? he cried or do they live here always ? Whose are they ? They live here , Mr. Havisham told him . 
They belong to the Earl , your grandfather . 
It was not long after this that they saw the castle . 
It rose up before them stately and beautiful and gray , the last rays of the sun casting dazzling lights on its many windows . 
It's the most beautiful place I ever saw ! said Cedric , his round face flushing with pleasure . 
It reminds any one of a king's palace . 
I saw a picture of one once in a fairy book . 
He saw the great entrance door thrown open and many servants standing in two lines looking at him . 
He wondered why they were standing there , and admired their liveries very much . 
At the head of the line of servants there stood an elderly woman in a rich , plain black silk gown she had gray hair and wore a cap . 
As he entered the hall she stood nearer than the rest , and the child thought from the look in her eyes that she was going to speak to him . 
Mr. Havisham , who held his hand , paused a moment . 
This is Lord Fauntleroy , Mrs. Mellon , he said . 
Lord Fauntleroy , this is Mrs. Mellon , who is the housekeeper . 
Cedric gave her his hand , his eyes lighting up . 
Was it you who sent the cat ? he said . 
I'm much obliged to you , ma'am . 
Mrs. Mellon's handsome old face looked as pleased as the face of the lodge keeper's wife had done . 
I should know his lordship anywhere , she said to Mr. Havisham . 
He has the Captain's face and way . 
It's a great day , this , sir . 
Cedric wondered why it was a great day . 
He looked at Mrs. Mellon curiously . 
It seemed to him for a moment as if there were tears in her eyes , and yet it was evident she was not unhappy . 
She smiled down on him . 
The cat left two beautiful kittens here , she said they shall be sent up to your lordship's nursery . 
Mr. Havisham said a few words to her in a low voice . 
In the library , sir , Mrs. Mellon replied . 
His lordship is to be taken there alone . 
Cedric crossed the threshold into the room . 
But he had attracted attention in one quarter at least . 
Then the person in the chair spoke . 
Dougal , he called , come back , sir . 
But there was no more fear in little Lord Fauntleroy's heart than there was unkindness he had been a brave little fellow all his life . 
He put his hand on the big dog's collar in the most natural way in the world , and they strayed forward together , Dougal sniffing as he went . 
And then the Earl looked up . 
What Cedric saw was a large old man with shaggy white hair and eyebrows , and a nose like an eagle's beak between his deep , fierce eyes . 
It pleased the grim old nobleman that the child should show no shyness or fear , either of the dog or of himself . 
Cedric looked at him just as he had looked at the woman at the lodge and at the housekeeper , and came quite close to him . 
Are you the Earl ? he said . 
I'm your grandson , you know , that Mr. Havisham brought . 
He held out his hand because he thought it must be the polite and proper thing to do even with earls . 
I hope you are very well , he continued , with the utmost friendliness . 
I'm very glad to see you . 
The Earl shook hands with him , with a curious gleam in his eyes just at first , he was so astonished that he scarcely knew what to say . 
He stared at the picturesque little apparition from under his shaggy brows , and took it all in from head to foot . 
Glad to see me , are you ? he said . 
Yes , answered Lord Fauntleroy , very . 
I've kept wondering what you would look like , he remarked . 
I used to lie in my berth in the ship and wonder if you would be anything like my father . 
Am I ? asked the Earl . 
Well , Cedric replied , I was very young when he died , and I may not remember exactly how he looked , but I don't think you are like him . 
You are disappointed , I suppose ? suggested his grandfather . 
Oh , no , responded Cedric politely . 
Of course you would like any one to look like your father but of course you would enjoy the way your grandfather looked , even if he wasn't like your father . 
You know how it is yourself about admiring your relations . 
The Earl leaned back in his chair and stared . 
He could not be said to know how it was about admiring his relations . 
Any boy would love his grandfather , continued Lord Fauntleroy , especially one that had been as kind to him as you have been . 
Another queer gleam came into the old nobleman's eyes . 
Bridget ! exclaimed the Earl . 
Dick ! The apple woman ! Yes ! explained Cedric the ones you gave me all that money for the money you told Mr. Havisham to give me if I wanted it . 
Ha ! ejaculated his lordship . 
That's it , is it ? The money you were to spend as you liked . 
What did you buy with it ? I should like to hear something about that . 
He drew his shaggy eyebrows together and looked at the child sharply . 
He was secretly curious to know in what way the lad had indulged himself . 
Oh ! said Lord Fauntleroy , perhaps you didn't know about Dick and the apple woman and Bridget . 
I forgot you lived such a long way off from them . 
They were particular friends of mine . 
And you see Michael had the fever Who's Michael ? asked the Earl . 
Michael is Bridget's husband , and they were in great trouble . 
When a man is sick and can't work and has twelve children , you know how it is . 
And Michael has always been a sober man . 
And Bridget used to come to our house and cry . 
And I ran as fast as I could into the kitchen and gave it to Bridget and that made it all right and Bridget could scarcely believe her eyes . 
That's why I'm so obliged to you . 
Several times it had turned and looked up at the boy as if interested in the conversation . 
Dougal was a solemn dog , who seemed to feel altogether too big to take life's responsibilities lightly . 
The old Earl , who knew the dog well , had watched it with secret interest . 
Dougal was not a dog whose habit it was to make acquaintances rashly , and the Earl wondered somewhat to see how quietly the brute sat under the touch of the childish hand . 
The small hand went on stroking this new friend as Cedric answered Well , there was Dick , he said . 
You'd like Dick , he's so square . 
This was an Americanism the Earl was not prepared for . 
What does that mean ? he inquired . 
Lord Fauntleroy paused a moment to reflect . 
He was not very sure himself what it meant . 
He had taken it for granted as meaning something very creditable because Dick had been fond of using it . 
And he's one of your acquaintances , is he ? said the Earl . 
He is an old friend of mine , replied his grandson . 
Not quite as old as Mr. Hobbs , but quite old . 
He gave me a present just before the ship sailed . 
He put his hand into his pocket and drew forth a neatly folded red object and opened it with an air of affectionate pride . 
It was the red silk handkerchief with the large purple horse shoes and heads on it . 
He gave me this , said his young lordship . 
I shall keep it always . 
You can wear it round your neck or keep it in your pocket . 
He bought it with the first money he earned after I bought Jake out and gave him the new brushes . 
I put some poetry in Mr. Hobbs's watch . 
It was , When this you see , remember me . 
When this I see , I shall always remember Dick . 
The sensations of the Right Honorable the Earl of Dorincourt could scarcely be described . 
He had never cared for children he had been so occupied with his own pleasures that he had never had time to care for them . 
His own sons had not interested him when they were very young though sometimes he remembered having thought Cedric's father a handsome and strong little fellow . 
It had never once occurred to him that he should like his grandson he had sent for the little Cedric because his pride impelled him to do so . 
If the boy was to take his place in the future , he did not wish his name to be made ridiculous by descending to an uneducated boor . 
He had been convinced the boy would be a clownish fellow if he were brought up in America . 
When the footman had announced Lord Fauntleroy , he had almost dreaded to look at the boy lest he should find him all that he had feared . 
It was because of this feeling that he had ordered that the child should be sent to him alone . 
His pride could not endure that others should see his disappointment if he was to be disappointed . 
His proud , stubborn old heart therefore had leaped within him when the boy came forward with his graceful , easy carriage , his fearless hand on the big dog's neck . 
Even in the moments when he had hoped the most , the Earl had never hoped that his grandson would look like that . 
And then their talk began and he was still more curiously moved , and more and more puzzled . 
But Cedric was no more afraid of the Earl than he had been of Dougal . 
He was not bold he was only innocently friendly , and he was not conscious that there could be any reason why he should be awkward or afraid . 
The Earl could not help seeing that the little boy took him for a friend and treated him as one , without having any doubt of him at all . 
And it was plain , too , that , in his childish way , he wished to please and interest his grandfather . 
Cross , and hard hearted , and worldly as the old Earl was , he could not help feeling a secret and novel pleasure in this very confidence . 
Lord Fauntleroy was quite willing to answer all his questions and chatted on in his genial little way quite composedly . 
In the course of the conversation , he reached the Fourth of July and the Revolution , and was just becoming enthusiastic , when he suddenly recollected something and stopped very abruptly . 
What is the matter ? demanded his grandfather . 
Why don't you go on ? Lord Fauntleroy moved rather uneasily in his chair . 
It was evident to the Earl that he was embarrassed by the thought which had just occurred to him . 
I was just thinking that perhaps you mightn't like it , he replied . 
Perhaps some one belonging to you might have been there . 
I forgot you were an Englishman . 
You can go on , said my lord . 
No one belonging to me was there . 
You forgot you were an Englishman , too . 
Oh ! no , said Cedric quickly . 
I'm an American ! You are an Englishman , said the Earl grimly . 
Your father was an Englishman . 
It amused him a little to say this , but it did not amuse Cedric . 
The lad had never thought of such a development as this . 
He felt himself grow quite hot up to the roots of his hair . 
I was born in America , he protested . 
You have to be an American if you are born in America . 
I beg your pardon , with serious politeness and delicacy , for contradicting you . 
Mr. Hobbs told me , if there were another war , you know , I should have to to be an American . 
The Earl gave a grim half laugh it was short and grim , but it was a laugh . 
You would , would you ? he said . 
He hated America and Americans , but it amused him to see how serious and interested this small patriot was . 
He thought that so good an American might make a rather good Englishman when he was a man . 
They had not time to go very deep into the Revolution again and indeed Lord Fauntleroy felt some delicacy about returning to the subject before dinner was announced . 
Cedric left his chair and went to his noble kinsman . 
He looked down at his gouty foot . 
Would you like me to help you ? he said politely . 
You could lean on me , you know . 
Once when Mr. Hobbs hurt his foot with a potato barrel rolling on it , he used to lean on me . 
The big footman almost periled his reputation and his situation by smiling . 
But he had a very narrow escape . 
He only just saved himself by staring straight over the Earl's head at a very ugly picture . 
The Earl looked his valiant young relative over from head to foot . 
Do you think you could do it ? he asked gruffly . 
I THINK I could , said Cedric . 
I'm seven , you know . 
You could lean on your stick on one side , and on me on the other . 
Dick says I've a good deal of muscle for a boy that's only seven . 
Well , said the Earl , you may try . 
Cedric gave him his stick and began to assist him to rise . 
Usually , the footman did this , and was violently sworn at when his lordship had an extra twinge of gout . 
The Earl was not a very polite person as a rule , and many a time the huge footmen about him quaked inside their imposing liveries . 
But this evening he did not swear , though his gouty foot gave him more twinges than one . 
He chose to try an experiment . 
He got up slowly and put his hand on the small shoulder presented to him with so much courage . 
Little Lord Fauntleroy made a careful step forward , looking down at the gouty foot . 
Just lean on me , he said , with encouraging good cheer . 
If the Earl had been supported by the footman he would have rested less on his stick and more on his assistant's arm . 
And yet it was part of his experiment to let his grandson feel his burden as no light weight . 
Don't be afraid of leaning on me , he panted . 
I'm all right if if it isn't a very long way . 
It was not really very far to the dining room , but it seemed rather a long way to Cedric , before they reached the chair at the head of the table . 
Does your foot hurt you very much when you stand on it ? he asked . 
Did you ever put it in hot water and mustard ? Mr. Hobbs used to put his in hot water . 
Arnica is a very nice thing , they tell me . 
The Earl , too , looked rather queer , once , as he glanced sidewise down at the flushed little face . 
But they reached the chair at last . 
The hand was removed from his shoulder , and the Earl was fairly seated . 
Cedric took out Dick's handkerchief and wiped his forehead . 
It's a warm night , isn't it ? he said . 
Perhaps you need a fire because because of your foot , but it seems just a little warm to me . 
His delicate consideration for his noble relative's feelings was such that he did not wish to seem to intimate that any of his surroundings were unnecessary . 
You have been doing some rather hard work , said the Earl . 
Oh , no ! said Lord Fauntleroy , it wasn't exactly hard , but I got a little warm . 
A person will get warm in summer time . 
And he rubbed his damp curls rather vigorously with the gorgeous handkerchief . 
His own chair was placed at the other end of the table , opposite his grandfather's . 
But that did not trouble him he had never thought himself very large or important , and he was quite willing to accommodate himself even to circumstances which rather overpowered him . 
Perhaps he had never looked so little a fellow as when seated now in his great chair , at the end of the table . 
Notwithstanding his solitary existence , the Earl chose to live in some state . 
He was fond of his dinner , and he dined in a formal style . 
Cedric looked at him across a glitter of splendid glass and plate , which to his unaccustomed eyes seemed quite dazzling . 
Dinner was usually a very serious matter with the Earl and it was a very serious matter with the cook , if his lordship was not pleased or had an indifferent appetite . 
His grandson gave him something to think of . 
He kept looking at him across the table . 
He did not say very much himself , but he managed to make the boy talk . 
You don't wear your coronet all the time ? remarked Lord Fauntleroy respectfully . 
No , replied the Earl , with his grim smile it is not becoming to me . 
Mr. Hobbs said you always wore it , said Cedric but after he thought it over , he said he supposed you must sometimes take it off to put your hat on . 
Yes , said the Earl , I take it off occasionally . 
And one of the footmen suddenly turned aside and gave a singular little cough behind his hand . 
Cedric finished his dinner first , and then he leaned back in his chair and took a survey of the room . 
You must be very proud of your house , he said , it's such a beautiful house . 
I never saw anything so beautiful but , of course , as I'm only seven , I haven't seen much . 
And you think I must be proud of it , do you ? said the Earl . 
I should think any one would be proud of it , replied Lord Fauntleroy . 
I should be proud of it if it were my house . 
Everything about it is beautiful . 
And the park , and those trees , how beautiful they are , and how the leaves rustle ! Then he paused an instant and looked across the table rather wistfully . 
It's a very big house for just two people to live in , isn't it ? he said . 
It is quite large enough for two , answered the Earl . 
Do you find it too large ? His little lordship hesitated a moment . 
I was only thinking , he said , that if two people lived in it who were not very good companions , they might feel lonely sometimes . 
Do you think I shall make a good companion ? inquired the Earl . 
Yes , replied Cedric , I think you will . 
Mr. Hobbs and I were great friends . 
He was the best friend I had except Dearest . 
The Earl made a quick movement of his bushy eyebrows . 
Who is Dearest ? She is my mother , said Lord Fauntleroy , in a rather low , quiet little voice . 
They had always been best friends , this boy and his young mother . 
When the footman left them alone , Cedric sat down upon the hearth rug near Dougal . 
For a few minutes he stroked the dog's ears in silence and looked at the fire . 
The boy's eyes looked wistful and thoughtful , and once or twice he gave a little sigh . 
The Earl sat still , and kept his eyes fixed on his grandson . 
Fauntleroy , he said at last , what are you thinking of ? Fauntleroy looked up with a manful effort at a smile . 
I was thinking about Dearest , he said and and I think I'd better get up and walk up and down the room . 
He rose up , and put his hands in his small pockets , and began to walk to and fro . 
His eyes were very bright , and his lips were pressed together , but he kept his head up and walked firmly . 
Dougal moved lazily and looked at him , and then stood up . 
He walked over to the child , and began to follow him uneasily . 
Fauntleroy drew one hand from his pocket and laid it on the dog's head . 
He's a very nice dog , he said . 
He knows how I feel . 
How do you feel ? asked the Earl . 
He liked this childish courage . 
Come here , he said . 
I never was away from my own house before , said the boy , with a troubled look in his brown eyes . 
It makes a person feel a strange feeling when he has to stay all night in another person's castle instead of in his own house . 
But Dearest is not very far away from me . 
She told me to remember that and and I'm seven and I can look at the picture she gave me . 
He put his hand in his pocket , and brought out a small violet velvet covered case . 
This is it , he said . 
There she is , he said , as the case opened and he looked up with a smile . 
I suppose you think you are very fond of her , he said . 
Yes , answered Lord Fauntleroy , in a gentle tone , and with simple directness I do think so , and I think it's true . 
My father left her to me to take care of , and when I am a man I am going to work and earn money for her . 
What do you think of doing ? inquired his grandfather . 
His young lordship slipped down upon the hearth rug , and sat there with the picture still in his hand . 
He seemed to be reflecting seriously , before he answered . 
I did think perhaps I might go into business with Mr. Hobbs , he said but I should LIKE to be a President . 
We'll send you to the House of Lords instead , said his grandfather . 
Well , remarked Lord Fauntleroy , if I COULDN'T be a President , and if that is a good business , I shouldn't mind . 
The grocery business is dull sometimes . 
Perhaps he was weighing the matter in his mind , for he sat very quiet after this , and looked at the fire for some time . 
The Earl did not speak again . 
He leaned back in his chair and watched him . 
A great many strange new thoughts passed through the old nobleman's mind . 
Dougal had stretched himself out and gone to sleep with his head on his huge paws . 
There was a long silence . 
In about half an hour's time Mr. Havisham was ushered in . 
The great room was very still when he entered . 
The Earl was still leaning back in his chair . 
Dougal was still asleep , and close beside the great dog , sleeping also , with his curly head upon his arm , lay little Lord Fauntleroy . 
You will be careful , Dawson , not to say anything about it , he heard some one say . 
He does not know why she is not to be with him , and the reason is to be kept from him . 
If them's his lordship's orders , mem , another voice answered , they'll have to be kep' , I suppose . 
, as it's well known , is enough to curdle your blood in your veins at times . 
An' it's my opinion , my lord wasn't blind to it neither , for he looked at him , and he says to James , See you don't wake him ! he says . 
Cedric moved on his pillow , and turned over , opening his eyes . 
There were two women in the room . 
Everything was bright and cheerful with gay flowered chintz . 
There was a fire on the hearth , and the sunshine was streaming in through the ivy entwined windows . 
Good morning , my lord , said Mrs. Mellon . 
Did you sleep well ? His lordship rubbed his eyes and smiled . 
Good morning , he said . 
I didn't know I was here . 
You were carried upstairs when you were asleep , said the housekeeper . 
This is your bedroom , and this is Dawson , who is to take care of you . 
Fauntleroy sat up in bed and held out his hand to Dawson , as he had held it out to the Earl . 
How do you do , ma'am ? he said . 
I'm much obliged to you for coming to take care of me . 
You can call her Dawson , my lord , said the housekeeper with a smile . 
She is used to being called Dawson . 
MISS Dawson , or MRS . 
Dawson ? inquired his lordship . 
Just Dawson , my lord , said Dawson herself , beaming all over . 
We had only Mary to do all the work , washing and all , and so of course it wouldn't do to give her so much trouble . 
I can take my bath , too , pretty well if you'll just be kind enough to 'zamine the corners after I'm done . 
Dawson and the housekeeper exchanged glances . 
Dawson will do anything you ask her to , said Mrs. Mellon . 
That I will , bless him , said Dawson , in her comforting , good humored voice . 
He shall dress himself if he likes , and I'll stand by , ready to help him if he wants me . 
Thank you , responded Lord Fauntleroy it's a little hard sometimes about the buttons , you know , and then I have to ask somebody . 
He thought Dawson a very kind woman , and before the bath and the dressing were finished they were excellent friends , and he had found out a great deal about her . 
All this was very interesting . 
And she is a sort of relation of your lordship's , said Dawson . 
And perhaps sometime you may see her . 
Do you think I shall ? said Fauntleroy . 
I never knew any little girls , but I always like to look at them . 
It's such a beautiful place , you know . 
It's a very beautiful place , of course , said Fauntleroy , with a little sigh but I should like it better if I didn't miss Dearest so . 
I always had my breakfast with her in the morning , and put the sugar and cream in her tea for her , and handed her the toast . 
That made it very sociable , of course . 
Oh , well ! answered Dawson , comfortingly , you know you can see her every day , and there's no knowing how much you'll have to tell her . 
Bless you ! wait till you've walked about a bit and seen things , the dogs , and the stables with all the horses in them . 
There's one of them I know you'll like to see Is there ? exclaimed Fauntleroy I'm very fond of horses . 
I was very fond of Jim . 
He was the horse that belonged to Mr. Hobbs' grocery wagon . 
He was a beautiful horse when he wasn't balky . 
Well , said Dawson , you just wait till you've seen what's in the stables . 
And , deary me , you haven't looked even into the very next room yet ! What is there ? asked Fauntleroy . 
Wait until you've had your breakfast , and then you shall see , said Dawson . 
At this he naturally began to grow curious , and he applied himself assiduously to his breakfast . 
It seemed to him that there must be something worth looking at , in the next room Dawson had such a consequential , mysterious air . 
Now , then , he said , slipping off his seat a few minutes later I've had enough . 
Can I go and look at it ? Dawson nodded and led the way , looking more mysterious and important than ever . 
He began to be very much interested indeed . 
When she opened the door of the room , he stood upon the threshold and looked about him in amazement . 
He did not speak he only put his hands in his pockets and stood there flushing up to his forehead and looking in . 
He flushed up because he was so surprised and , for the moment , excited . 
To see such a place was enough to surprise any ordinary boy . 
The room was a large one , too , as all the rooms seemed to be , and it appeared to him more beautiful than the rest , only in a different way . 
It looks like a boy's room , he said at last , catching his breath a little . 
Whom do they belong to ? Go and look at them , said Dawson . 
It seemed almost too much to be believed . 
It was Grandpapa ! he said , with his eyes as bright as stars . 
It was a tremendously exciting morning . 
There were so many things to be examined , so many experiments to be tried each novelty was so absorbing that he could scarcely turn from it to look at the next . 
Did you ever know any one , he said to Dawson , who had such a kind grandfather ! Dawson's face wore an uncertain expression for a moment . 
She had not a very high opinion of his lordship the Earl . 
She had not been in the house many days , but she had been there long enough to hear the old nobleman's peculiarities discussed very freely in the servants' hall . 
Give him his own way , and fill his rooms with toys , my lord had said . 
Give him what will amuse him , and he'll forget about his mother quickly enough . 
Amuse him , and fill his mind with other things , and we shall have no trouble . 
The Earl had passed a bad night and had spent the morning in his room but at noon , after he had lunched , he sent for his grandson . 
Fauntleroy answered the summons at once . 
I was waiting for you to send for me , he said . 
I was ready a long time ago . 
I'm EVER so much obliged to you for all those things ! I'm EVER so much obliged to you ! I have been playing with them all the morning . 
There's one that's like baseball , only you play it on a board with black and white pegs , and you keep your score with some counters on a wire . 
But you know all about it , don't you ? I'm afraid I don't , replied the Earl . 
It's an American game , isn't it ? Is it something like cricket ? I never saw cricket , said Fauntleroy but Mr. Hobbs took me several times to see baseball . 
You get so excited ! Would you like me to go and get my game and show it to you ? Perhaps it would amuse you and make you forget about your foot . 
Does your foot hurt you very much this morning ? More than I enjoy , was the answer . 
Then perhaps you couldn't forget it , said the little fellow anxiously . 
Perhaps it would bother you to be told about the game . 
Do you think it would amuse you , or do you think it would bother you ? Go and get it , said the Earl . 
It certainly was a novel entertainment this , making a companion of a child who offered to teach him to play games , but the very novelty of it amused him . 
May I pull that little table over here to your chair ? he asked . 
Ring for Thomas , said the Earl . 
He will place it for you . 
Oh , I can do it myself , answered Fauntleroy . 
Very well , replied his grandfather . 
The lurking smile deepened on the old man's face as he watched the little fellow's preparations there was such an absorbed interest in them . 
The small table was dragged forward and placed by his chair , and the game taken from its box and arranged upon it . 
It's very interesting when you once begin , said Fauntleroy . 
You see , the black pegs can be your side and the white ones mine . 
He entered into the details of explanation with the greatest animation . 
His vigorous , graceful little body , his eager gestures , his simple enjoyment of it all , were pleasant to behold . 
When at last the explanations and illustrations were at an end and the game began in good earnest , the Earl still found himself entertained . 
His noble patron , indeed , usually made these visits as disagreeable as it lay in his lordly power to make them . 
He abhorred churches and charities , and flew into violent rages when any of his tenantry took the liberty of being poor and ill and needing assistance . 
And of course she knew everything about the Castle , because her sister , Jane Shorts , was one of the upper housemaids , and was very friendly and intimate with Thomas . 
And the second reason was even worse , because it was a new one and had been talked about with the most excited interest . 
An' serve him right , added Thomas hit's 'is hown fault . 
Judge then of his amazement when , as Thomas opened the library door , his ears were greeted by a delighted ring of childish laughter . 
That's two out ! shouted an excited , clear little voice . 
It's two out ! the little stranger cried . 
You hadn't any luck that time , had you ? And then they both recognized at once that some one had come in . 
In fact , he looked almost as if he had forgotten for the moment how disagreeable he was , and how unpleasant he really could make himself when he tried . 
Ah ! he said , in his harsh voice , but giving his hand rather graciously . 
I've found a new employment , you see . 
This is the new Lord Fauntleroy , he said . 
Fauntleroy , this is Mr. Mordaunt , the rector of the parish . 
Fauntleroy looked up at the gentleman in the clerical garments , and gave him his hand . 
Cedric felt quite sure that one ought to be more than usually polite to a minister . 
Mr. Mordaunt held the small hand in his a moment as he looked down at the child's face , smiling involuntarily . 
He liked the little fellow from that instant as in fact people always did like him . 
As the rector looked at Cedric , he forgot to think of the Earl at all . 
I am delighted to make your acquaintance , Lord Fauntleroy , said the rector . 
You made a long journey to come to us . 
A great many people will be glad to know you made it safely . 
It WAS a long way , answered Fauntleroy , but Dearest , my mother , was with me and I wasn't lonely . 
Of course you are never lonely if your mother is with you and the ship was beautiful . 
Take a chair , Mordaunt , said the Earl . 
He glanced from Fauntleroy to the Earl . 
Your lordship is greatly to be congratulated , he said warmly . 
But the Earl plainly had no intention of showing his feelings on the subject . 
He is like his father , he said rather gruffly . 
Let us hope he'll conduct himself more creditably . 
It is Higgins , he said Higgins of Edge Farm . 
He has been very unfortunate . 
He was ill himself last autumn , and his children had scarlet fever . 
I can't say that he is a very good manager , but he has had ill luck , and of course he is behindhand in many ways . 
He is in trouble about his rent now . 
Newick tells him if he doesn't pay it , he must leave the place and of course that would be a very serious matter . 
His wife is ill , and he came to me yesterday to beg me to see about it , and ask you for time . 
He thinks if you would give him time he could catch up again . 
They all think that , said the Earl , looking rather black . 
Fauntleroy made a movement forward . 
He had been standing between his grandfather and the visitor , listening with all his might . 
He had begun to be interested in Higgins at once . 
He wondered how many children there were , and if the scarlet fever had hurt them very much . 
His eyes were wide open and were fixed upon Mr. Mordaunt with intent interest as that gentleman went on with the conversation . 
Higgins is a well meaning man , said the rector , making an effort to strengthen his plea . 
He is a bad enough tenant , replied his lordship . 
And he is always behindhand , Newick tells me . 
He is in great trouble now , said the rector . 
He is very fond of his wife and children , and if the farm is taken from him they may literally starve . 
He can not give them the nourishing things they need . 
Two of the children were left very low after the fever , and the doctor orders for them wine and luxuries that Higgins can not afford . 
At this Fauntleroy moved a step nearer . 
That was the way with Michael , he said . 
I forgot YOU ! he said . 
I forgot we had a philanthropist in the room . 
Who was Michael ? And the gleam of queer amusement came back into the old man's deep set eyes . 
He was Bridget's husband , who had the fever , answered Fauntleroy and he couldn't pay the rent or buy wine and things . 
And you gave me that money to help him . 
The Earl drew his brows together into a curious frown , which somehow was scarcely grim at all . 
He glanced across at Mr. Mordaunt . 
I don't know what sort of landed proprietor he will make , he said . 
I told Havisham the boy was to have what he wanted anything he wanted and what he wanted , it seems , was money to give to beggars . 
Oh ! but they weren't beggars , said Fauntleroy eagerly . 
Michael was a splendid bricklayer ! They all worked . 
Oh ! said the Earl , they were not beggars . 
They were splendid bricklayers , and bootblacks , and apple women . 
He bent his gaze on the boy for a few seconds in silence . 
The fact was that a new thought was coming to him , and though , perhaps , it was not prompted by the noblest emotions , it was not a bad thought . 
Come here , he said , at last . 
Fauntleroy went and stood as near to him as possible without encroaching on the gouty foot . 
What would YOU do in this case ? his lordship asked . 
It must be confessed that Mr. Mordaunt experienced for the moment a curious sensation . 
And what would YOU do in such a case ? demanded the Earl . 
Fauntleroy drew a little nearer , and laid one hand on his knee , with the most confiding air of good comradeship . 
Then , after a second's pause , in which his face brightened visibly , YOU can do anything , can't you ? he said . 
Humph ! said my lord , staring at him . 
That's your opinion , is it ? And he was not displeased either . 
I mean you can give any one anything , said Fauntleroy . 
Who's Newick ? He is my agent , answered the earl , and some of my tenants are not over fond of him . 
Are you going to write him a letter now ? inquired Fauntleroy . 
Shall I bring you the pen and ink ? I can take the game off this table . 
It plainly had not for an instant occurred to him that Newick would be allowed to do his worst . 
The Earl paused a moment , still looking at him . 
Can you write ? he asked . 
Yes , answered Cedric , but not very well . 
Move the things from the table , commanded my lord , and bring the pen and ink , and a sheet of paper from my desk . 
Mr. Mordaunt's interest began to increase . 
Fauntleroy did as he was told very deftly . 
In a few moments , the sheet of paper , the big inkstand , and the pen were ready . 
There ! he said gayly , now you can write it . 
You are to write it , said the Earl . 
I ! exclaimed Fauntleroy , and a flush overspread his forehead . 
Will it do if I write it ? I don't always spell quite right when I haven't a dictionary , and nobody tells me . 
It will do , answered the Earl . 
Higgins will not complain of the spelling . 
I'm not the philanthropist you are . 
Dip your pen in the ink . 
Fauntleroy took up the pen and dipped it in the ink bottle , then he arranged himself in position , leaning on the table . 
Fauntleroy dipped his pen in the ink again , and resting his arm , began to write . 
It was rather a slow and serious process , but he gave his whole soul to it . 
After a while , however , the manuscript was complete , and he handed it to his grandfather with a smile slightly tinged with anxiety . 
Do you think it will do ? he asked . 
The Earl looked at it , and the corners of his mouth twitched a little . 
Yes , he answered Higgins will find it entirely satisfactory . 
And he handed it to Mr. Mordaunt . 
What Mr. Mordaunt found written was this Dear mr . 
Newik if you pleas mr . 
higins is not to be intur feared with for the present and oblige . 
Mr. Hobbs always signed his letters that way , said Fauntleroy and I thought I'd better say please . 
Is that exactly the right way to spell interfered' ? It's not exactly the way it is spelled in the dictionary , answered the Earl . 
I was afraid of that , said Fauntleroy . 
I ought to have asked . 
You see , that's the way with words of more than one syllable you have to look in the dictionary . 
I'll write it over again . 
And write it over again he did , making quite an imposing copy , and taking precautions in the matter of spelling by consulting the Earl himself . 
Spelling is a curious thing , he said . 
It's so often different from what you expect it to be . 
Sometimes it almost discourages you . 
When he was gone , Fauntleroy , who had accompanied him to the door , went back to his grandfather . 
May I go to Dearest now ? he asked . 
I think she will be waiting for me . 
The Earl was silent a moment . 
There is something in the stable for you to see first , he said . 
If you please , said Fauntleroy , with his quick little flush . 
I'm very much obliged but I think I'd better see it to morrow . 
She will be expecting me all the time . 
Very well , answered the Earl . 
We will order the carriage . 
Then he added dryly , It's a pony . 
Fauntleroy drew a long breath . 
A pony ! he exclaimed . 
Whose pony is it ? Yours , replied the Earl . 
Mine ? cried the little fellow . 
Mine like the things upstairs ? Yes , said his grandfather . 
Would you like to see it ? Shall I order it to be brought around ? Fauntleroy's cheeks grew redder and redder . 
I never thought I should have a pony ! he said . 
I never thought that ! How glad Dearest will be . 
You give me EVERYthing , don't you ? Do you wish to see it ? inquired the Earl . 
Fauntleroy drew a long breath . 
I WANT to see it , he said . 
I want to see it so much I can hardly wait . 
But I'm afraid there isn't time . 
You MUST go and see your mother this afternoon ? asked the Earl . 
You have , have you ? Ring the bell . 
As they drove down the avenue , under the arching trees , he was rather silent . 
He talked about the pony . 
She will be so much obliged to you for being so kind to me ! She knows I always liked ponies so much , but we never thought I should have one . 
There was a little boy on Fifth Avenue who had one , and he used to ride out every morning and we used to take a walk past his house to see him . 
He leaned back against the cushions and regarded the Earl with rapt interest for a few minutes and in entire silence . 
I think you must be the best person in the world , he burst forth at last . 
You are always doing good , aren't you ? and thinking about other people . 
Dearest says that is the best kind of goodness not to think about yourself , but to think about other people . 
He felt that he needed time for reflection . 
To see each of his ugly , selfish motives changed into a good and generous one by the simplicity of a child was a singular experience . 
Fauntleroy went on , still regarding him with admiring eyes those great , clear , innocent eyes ! You make so many people happy , he said . 
Do you know , I've counted it up on my fingers and in my mind , and it's twenty seven people you've been kind to . 
That's a good many twenty seven ! And I was the person who was kind to them was I ? said the Earl . 
Why , yes , you know , answered Fauntleroy . 
You made them all happy . 
Do you know , with some delicate hesitation , that people are sometimes mistaken about earls when they don't know them . 
I am going to write him , and tell him about it . 
What was Mr. Hobbs's opinion of earls ? asked his lordship . 
Well , you see , the difficulty was , replied his young companion , that he didn't know any , and he'd only read about them in books . 
He thought you mustn't mind it that they were gory tyrants and he said he wouldn't have them hanging around his store . 
But if he'd known YOU , I'm sure he would have felt quite different . 
I shall tell him about you . 
What shall you tell him ? I shall tell him , said Fauntleroy , glowing with enthusiasm , that you are the kindest man I ever heard of . 
And you are always thinking of other people , and making them happy and and I hope when I grow up , I shall be just like you . 
Just like me ! repeated his lordship , looking at the little kindling face . 
JUST like you , said Fauntleroy , adding modestly , if I can . 
Perhaps I'm not good enough , but I'm going to try . 
The carriage rolled on down the stately avenue under the beautiful , broad branched trees , through the spaces of green shade and lanes of golden sunlight . 
He heard the whir of the partridges and the calls and songs of the birds , and it all seemed even more beautiful to him than before . 
All his heart was filled with pleasure and happiness in the beauty that was on every side . 
But the old Earl saw and heard very different things , though he was apparently looking out too . 
But at last the carriage , having passed the gates and bowled through the green lanes for a short distance , stopped . 
They had reached Court Lodge and Fauntleroy was out upon the ground almost before the big footman had time to open the carriage door . 
The Earl wakened from his reverie with a start . 
Are we here ? Yes , said Fauntleroy . 
Let me give you your stick . 
Just lean on me when you get out . 
I am not going to get out , replied his lordship brusquely . 
Not not to see Dearest ? exclaimed Fauntleroy with astonished face . 
Dearest' will excuse me , said the Earl dryly . 
Go to her and tell her that not even a new pony would keep you away . 
She will be disappointed , said Fauntleroy . 
She will want to see you very much . 
I am afraid not , was the answer . 
The carriage will call for you as we come back . 
Tell Jeffries to drive on , Thomas . 
Thomas closed the carriage door and , after a puzzled look , Fauntleroy ran up the drive . 
The Earl had the opportunity as Mr. Havisham once had of seeing a pair of handsome , strong little legs flash over the ground with astonishing rapidity . 
Evidently their owner had no intention of losing any time . 
The carriage rolled slowly away , but his lordship did not at once lean back he still looked out . 
Through a space in the trees he could see the house door it was wide open . 
The little figure dashed up the steps another figure a little figure , too , slender and young , in its black gown ran to meet it . 
It seemed as if they flew together , as Fauntleroy leaped into his mother's arms , hanging about her neck and covering her sweet young face with kisses . 
VII On the following Sunday morning , Mr. Mordaunt had a large congregation . 
Indeed , he could scarcely remember any Sunday on which the church had been so crowded . 
People appeared upon the scene who seldom did him the honor of coming to hear his sermons . 
There were even people from Hazelton , which was the next parish . 
There were hearty , sunburned farmers , stout , comfortable , apple cheeked wives in their best bonnets and most gorgeous shawls , and half a dozen children or so to each family . 
The doctor's wife was there , with her four daughters . 
In the course of the preceding week , many wonderful stories had been told of little Lord Fauntleroy . 
An' the Earl so took aback , Mr. Thomas says , that he couldn't do nothing but listen and stare from under his eyebrows . 
And then there had come the story of Higgins . 
And so the farmers' wives had found plenty to talk of over their tea and their shopping , and they had done the subject full justice and made the most of it . 
There were many loiterers in the churchyard , and many lingerers in the lane that morning . 
There were groups at the gates and in the porch , and there had been much discussion as to whether my lord would really appear or not . 
When this discussion was at its height , one good woman suddenly uttered an exclamation . 
Eh , she said , that must be the mother , pretty young thing . 
All who heard turned and looked at the slender figure in black coming up the path . 
But soon she could not help being attracted by the fact that she was being looked at and that her arrival had created some sort of sensation . 
She had scarcely passed through the stone porch into the church before the great event of the day happened . 
The carriage from the Castle , with its handsome horses and tall liveried servants , bowled around the corner and down the green lane . 
Here they come ! went from one looker on to another . 
Every man , woman , and child looked curiously upon him . 
He's the Captain over again ! said those of the on lookers who remembered his father . 
The instant he could help , he put out his hand and offered his shoulder as if he had been seven feet high . 
It was plain enough to every one that however it might be with other people , the Earl of Dorincourt struck no terror into the breast of his grandson . 
Just lean on me , they heard him say . 
How glad the people are to see you , and how well they all seem to know you ! Take off your cap , Fauntleroy , said the Earl . 
They are bowing to you . 
God bless your lordship ! said the courtesying , red cloaked old woman who had spoken to his mother long life to you ! Thank you , ma'am , said Fauntleroy . 
And then they went into the church , and were looked at there , on their way up the aisle to the square , red cushioned and curtained pew . 
May I whisper ? inquired his lordship , devoured by curiousity . 
What is it ? said his grandfather . 
Who are they ? Some of your ancestors , answered the Earl , who lived a few hundred years ago . 
Perhaps , said Lord Fauntleroy , regarding them with respect , perhaps I got my spelling from them . 
And then he proceeded to find his place in the church service . 
When the music began , he stood up and looked across at his mother , smiling . 
He quite forgot himself in his pleasure in it . 
The Earl forgot himself a little too , as he sat in his curtain shielded corner of the pew and watched the boy . 
There were many soft , anxious thoughts in her tender heart in those new days . 
And on his return to the Castle , Fauntleroy had repeated her words to his grandfather . 
And what did she say to that ? asked his lordship , a trifle uneasily . 
She said that was right , and we must always look for good in people and try to be like it . 
Perhaps it was this the old man remembered as he glanced through the divided folds of the red curtain of his pew . 
As they came out of church , many of those who had attended the service stood waiting to see them pass . 
As they neared the gate , a man who stood with his hat in his hand made a step forward and then hesitated . 
He was a middle aged farmer , with a careworn face . 
Well , Higgins , said the Earl . 
Fauntleroy turned quickly to look at him . 
Oh ! he exclaimed , is it Mr. Higgins ? Yes , answered the Earl dryly and I suppose he came to take a look at his new landlord . 
Yes , my lord , said the man , his sunburned face reddening . 
Mr. Newick told me his young lordship was kind enough to speak for me , and I thought I'd like to say a word of thanks , if I might be allowed . 
I've a great deal to thank your lordship for , he said a great deal . 
I Oh , said Fauntleroy I only wrote the letter . 
It was my grandfather who did it . 
But you know how he is about always being good to everybody . 
Is Mrs. Higgins well now ? Higgins looked a trifle taken aback . 
He also was somewhat startled at hearing his noble landlord presented in the character of a benevolent being , full of engaging qualities . 
I well , yes , your lordship , he stammered , the missus is better since the trouble was took off her mind . 
It was worrying broke her down . 
I'm glad of that , said Fauntleroy . 
My grandfather was very sorry about your children having the scarlet fever , and so was I. He has had children himself . 
I'm his son's little boy , you know . 
Higgins was on the verge of being panic stricken . 
You see , Higgins , broke in the Earl with a fine grim smile , you people have been mistaken in me . 
When you want reliable information on the subject of my character , apply to him . 
Get into the carriage , Fauntleroy . 
And Fauntleroy jumped in , and the carriage rolled away down the green lane , and even when it turned the corner into the high road , the Earl was still grimly smiling . 
VIII Lord Dorincourt had occasion to wear his grim smile many a time as the days passed by . 
Indeed , as his acquaintance with his grandson progressed , he wore the smile so often that there were moments when it almost lost its grimness . 
There is no denying that before Lord Fauntleroy had appeared on the scene , the old man had been growing very tired of his loneliness and his gout and his seventy years . 
But he could not read all the time , and he became more and more bored , as he called it . 
He hated the long nights and days , and he grew more and more savage and irritable . 
And then Fauntleroy came and when the Earl saw him , fortunately for the little fellow , the secret pride of the grandfather was gratified at the outset . 
But he chose to think that Cedric's beauty and fearless spirit were the results of the Dorincourt blood and a credit to the Dorincourt rank . 
It had amused him to give into those childish hands the power to bestow a benefit on poor Higgins . 
Then it had gratified him to drive to church with Cedric and to see the excitement and interest caused by the arrival . 
that the boy was every inch a lord . 
The morning the new pony had been tried , the Earl had been so pleased that he had almost forgotten his gout . 
He wondered if the boy would show signs of timidity . 
It was not a very small pony , and he had often seen children lose courage in making their first essay at riding . 
Fauntleroy mounted in great delight . 
He had never been on a pony before , and he was in the highest spirits . 
Wilkins , the groom , led the animal by the bridle up and down before the library window . 
He's a well plucked un , he is , Wilkins remarked in the stable afterward with many grins . 
It weren't no trouble to put HIM up . 
An' a old un wouldn't ha' sat any straighter when he WERE up . 
He ses ses he to me , Wilkins , he ses , am I sitting up straight ? They sit up straight at the circus , ses he . 
I should like to try , answered Fauntleroy . 
His lordship made a sign to Wilkins , who at the signal brought up his own horse and mounted it and took Fauntleroy's pony by the leading rein . 
Now , said the Earl , let him trot . 
The next few minutes were rather exciting to the small equestrian . 
He found that trotting was not so easy as walking , and the faster the pony trotted , the less easy it was . 
It j jolts a g goo good deal do doesn't it ? he said to Wilkins . 
D does it j jolt y you ? No , my lord , answered Wilkins . 
You'll get used to it in time . 
I'm ri rising all the t time , said Fauntleroy . 
He was both rising and falling rather uncomfortably and with many shakes and bounces . 
He was out of breath and his face grew red , but he held on with all his might , and sat as straight as he could . 
The Earl could see that from his window . 
Stop a minute ! said his grandfather . 
Where's your hat ? Wilkins touched his . 
It fell off , your lordship , he said , with evident enjoyment . 
Wouldn't let me stop to pick it up , my lord . 
Not much afraid , is he ? asked the Earl dryly . 
Him , your lordship ! exclaimed Wilkins . 
I shouldn't say as he knowed what it meant . 
I've taught young gen'lemen to ride afore , an' I never see one stick on more determinder . 
Tired ? said the Earl to Fauntleroy . 
Want to get off ? It jolts you more than you think it will , admitted his young lordship frankly . 
And it tires you a little , too but I don't want to get off . 
I want to learn how . 
As soon as I've got my breath I want to go back for the hat . 
And he sat and watched quite eagerly until the sound of the horses' hoofs returned . 
When they did come , which was after some time , they came at a faster pace . 
There ! he panted , as they drew up , I c cantered . 
Scarcely a day passed in which the country people did not see them out together , cantering gayly on the highroad or through the green lanes . 
An' ses he , Wilkins , ses he , that boy's lame and I'm not , and I want to talk to him , too . 
with these words My grandfather's compliments , and if you please , these are for your boy , and we hope he will get better . 
I said your compliments , he explained to the Earl when he returned to the carriage . 
You didn't tell me to , but I thought perhaps you forgot . 
That was right , wasn't it ? And the Earl laughed again , and did not say it was not . 
In fact , the two were becoming more intimate every day , and every day Fauntleroy's faith in his lordship's benevolence and virtue increased . 
He had no doubt whatever that his grandfather was the most amiable and generous of elderly gentlemen . 
Certainly , he himself found his wishes gratified almost before they were uttered and such gifts and pleasures were lavished upon him , that he was sometimes almost bewildered by his own possessions . 
Apparently , he was to have everything he wanted , and to do everything he wished to do . 
And though this would certainly not have been a very wise plan to pursue with all small boys , his young lordship bore it amazingly well . 
Perhaps , notwithstanding his sweet nature , he might have been somewhat spoiled by it , if it had not been for the hours he spent with his mother at Court Lodge . 
That best friend of his watched over him over closely and tenderly . 
There was one thing , it is true , which puzzled the little fellow very much . 
But , being quick to observe , the little boy could not help wondering why it was that his mother and grandfather never seemed to meet . 
He had noticed that they never did meet . 
And yet , every day , fruit and flowers were sent to Court Lodge from the hot houses at the Castle . 
That is a present from you to your mother , the Earl said abruptly . 
She can not go walking about the country . 
The man who drives will take charge of it . 
It is a present from YOU . 
Fauntleroy's delight could but feebly express itself . 
He could scarcely contain himself until he reached the lodge . 
His mother was gathering roses in the garden . 
He flung himself out of the little brougham and flew to her . 
Dearest ! he cried , could you believe it ? This is yours ! He says it is a present from me . 
It is your own carriage to drive everywhere in ! He was so happy that she did not know what to say . 
She could not have borne to spoil his pleasure by refusing to accept the gift even though it came from the man who chose to consider himself her enemy . 
She was obliged to step into the carriage , roses and all , and let herself be taken to drive , while Fauntleroy told her stories of his grandfather's goodness and amiability . 
The very next day after that , Fauntleroy wrote to Mr. Hobbs . 
He wrote quite a long letter , and after the first copy was written , he brought it to his grandfather to be inspected . 
Because , he said , it's so uncertain about the spelling . 
And if you'll tell me the mistakes , I'll write it out again . 
Yes , said Fauntleroy , I miss her all the time . 
He went and stood before the Earl and put his hand on his knee , looking up at him . 
YOU don't miss her , do you ? he said . 
I don't know her , answered his lordship rather crustily . 
I know that , said Fauntleroy , and that's what makes me wonder . 
She told me not to ask you any questions , and and I won't , but sometimes I can't help thinking , you know , and it makes me all puzzled . 
But I'm not going to ask any questions . 
What does it say ? asked my lord . 
It says , Good night , God keep you all the night ! just what she used to say when we were together . 
And he drew down his beetling eyebrows and looked at the little boy so fixedly and so long that Fauntleroy wondered what he could be thinking of . 
His pride was the strongest part of his nature , and the boy gratified it at every point . 
Through this pride he began to find a new interest in life . 
He began to take pleasure in showing his heir to the world . 
The world had known of his disappointment in his sons so there was an agreeable touch of triumph in exhibiting this new Lord Fauntleroy , who could disappoint no one . 
He wished the child to appreciate his own power and to understand the splendor of his position he wished that others should realize it too . 
He made plans for his future . 
The thought even made him feel a trifle nervous . 
He did not wish the boy to find it out . 
Perhaps the Earl grew better because the time did not pass so slowly for him , and he had something to think of beside his pains and infirmities . 
One fine morning , people were amazed to see little Lord Fauntleroy riding his pony with another companion than Wilkins . 
This new companion rode a tall , powerful gray horse , and was no other than the Earl himself . 
It was , in fact , Fauntleroy who had suggested this plan . 
As he had been on the point of mounting his pony , he had said rather wistfully to his grandfather I wish you were going with me . 
When I go away I feel lonely because you are left all by yourself in such a big castle . 
I wish you could ride too . 
And the greatest excitement had been aroused in the stables a few minutes later by the arrival of an order that Selim was to be saddled for the Earl . 
And in their rides together through the green lanes and pretty country roads , the two riders became more intimate than ever . 
And gradually the old man heard a great deal about Dearest and her life . 
As Fauntleroy trotted by the big horse he chatted gayly . 
There could not well have been a brighter little comrade , his nature was so happy . 
It was he who talked the most . 
The Earl often was silent , listening and watching the joyous , glowing face . 
One thing that the Earl discovered was that his son's wife did not lead an idle life . 
It was not long before he learned that the poor people knew her very well indeed . 
When there was sickness or sorrow or poverty in any house , the little brougham often stood before the door . 
Do you know , said Fauntleroy once , they all say , God bless you ! when they see her , and the children are glad . 
There are some who go to her house to be taught to sew . 
She says she feels so rich now that she wants to help the poor ones . 
And yet he was often conscious of a hard , jealous pang when he saw how she filled her child's heart and how the boy clung to her as his best beloved . 
The old man would have desired to stand first himself and have no rival . 
Do you know that all that land belongs to me ? he said to Fauntleroy . 
Does it ? answered Fauntleroy . 
When ? When I am dead , his grandfather answered . 
Then I don't want it , said Fauntleroy I want you to live always . 
That's kind , answered the Earl in his dry way nevertheless , some day it will all be yours some day you will be the Earl of Dorincourt . 
Little Lord Fauntleroy sat very still in his saddle for a few moments . 
Then he gave a queer little sigh . 
What are you thinking of ? asked the Earl . 
I am thinking , replied Fauntleroy , what a little boy I am ! and of what Dearest said to me . 
What was it ? inquired the Earl . 
And I was just looking at all those houses , and thinking how I should have to find out about the people , when I was an earl . 
Newick finds out for me , he said , and he pulled his great gray mustache , and looked at his small questioner rather uneasily . 
At first he had only been pleased and proud of Cedric's beauty and bravery , but there was something more than pride in his feeling now . 
I'm an old fellow in my dotage , and I have nothing else to think of , he would say to himself and yet he knew it was not that altogether . 
It was only about a week after that ride when , after a visit to his mother , Fauntleroy came into the library with a troubled , thoughtful face . 
He sat down in that high backed chair in which he had sat on the evening of his arrival , and for a while he looked at the embers on the hearth . 
The Earl watched him in silence , wondering what was coming . 
It was evident that Cedric had something on his mind . 
At last he looked up . 
Does Newick know all about the people ? he asked . 
It is his business to know about them , said his lordship . 
Been neglecting it has he ? Contradictory as it may seem , there was nothing which entertained and edified him more than the little fellow's interest in his tenantry . 
There is a place , said Fauntleroy , looking up at him with wide open , horror stricken eye Dearest has seen it it is at the other end of the village . 
She would not let me come near her until she had changed all her things . 
The tears ran down her cheeks when she told me about it ! The tears had come into his own eyes , but he smiled through them . 
I told her you didn't know , and I would tell you , he said . 
He jumped down and came and leaned against the Earl's chair . 
You can make it all right , he said , just as you made it all right for Higgins . 
You always make it all right for everybody . 
I told her you would , and that Newick must have forgotten to tell you . 
The Earl looked down at the hand on his knee . 
Newick had not forgotten to tell him in fact , Newick had spoken to him more than once of the desperate condition of the end of the village known as Earl's Court . 
What ! he said you want to make a builder of model cottages of me , do you ? And he positively put his own hand upon the childish one and stroked it . 
Those must be pulled down , said Fauntleroy , with great eagerness . 
Let us let us go and have them pulled down to morrow . 
The people will be so glad when they see you ! They'll know you have come to help them ! And his eyes shone like stars in his glowing face . 
The Earl rose from his chair and put his hand on the child's shoulder . 
Let us go out and take our walk on the terrace , he said , with a short laugh and we can talk it over . 
Everything was not as picturesque , when seen near by , as it looked from a distance . 
She had found idleness and poverty and ignorance where there should have been comfort and industry . 
And she had discovered , after a while , that Erleboro was considered to be the worst village in that part of the country . 
Mr. Mordaunt had told her a great many of his difficulties and discouragements , and she had found out a great deal by herself . 
The agents who had managed the property had always been chosen to please the Earl , and had cared nothing for the degradation and wretchedness of the poor tenants . 
Many things , therefore , had been neglected which should have been attended to , and matters had gone from bad to worse . 
As to Earl's Court , it was a disgrace , with its dilapidated houses and miserable , careless , sickly people . 
When first Mrs. Errol went to the place , it made her shudder . 
Such ugliness and slovenliness and want seemed worse in a country place than in a city . 
It seemed as if there it might be helped . 
And a bold thought came in her wise little mother heart . 
The Earl would give him anything , she said to Mr. Mordaunt . 
He would indulge his every whim . 
Why should not that indulgence be used for the good of others ? It is for me to see that this shall come to pass . 
And strange as it appeared to every one , good results did follow . 
It is Lord Fauntleroy who insists on it , he said dryly he thinks it will improve the property . 
You can tell the tenants that it's his idea . 
And he looked down at his small lordship , who was lying on the hearth rug playing with Dougal . 
The great dog was the lad's constant companion , and followed him about everywhere , stalking solemnly after him when he walked , and trotting majestically behind when he rode or drove . 
Of course , both the country people and the town people heard of the proposed improvement . 
They are so fond of you , he once said , looking up at his lordship with a bright smile . 
Do you see how glad they are when they see you ? I hope they will some day be as fond of me . 
It must be nice to have EVERYbody like you . 
And he felt quite proud to be the grandson of so greatly admired and beloved an individual . 
When the cottages were being built , the lad and his grandfather used to ride over to Earl's Court together to look at them , and Fauntleroy was full of interest . 
He would dismount from his pony and go and make acquaintance with the workmen , asking them questions about building and bricklaying , and telling them things about America . 
After two or three such conversations , he was able to enlighten the Earl on the subject of brick making , as they rode home . 
I always like to know about things like those , he said , because you never know what you are coming to . 
He's a rare un , they used to say . 
An' a noice little outspoken chap , too . 
Not much o' th' bad stock in him . 
Fauntleroy scrambled up and went to him . 
Is there anything you want , the Earl asked anything you have not ? The little fellow's brown eyes fixed themselves on his grandfather with a rather wistful look . 
Only one thing , he answered . 
What is that ? inquired the Earl . 
Fauntleroy was silent a second . 
He had not thought matters over to himself so long for nothing . 
What is it ? my lord repeated . 
It is Dearest , he said . 
The old Earl winced a little . 
But you see her almost every day , he said . 
Is not that enough ? I used to see her all the time , said Fauntleroy . 
She used to kiss me when I went to sleep at night , and in the morning she was always there , and we could tell each other things without waiting . 
The old eyes and the young ones looked into each other through a moment of silence . 
Then the Earl knitted his brows . 
Do you NEVER forget about your mother ? he said . 
No , answered Fauntleroy , never and she never forgets about me . 
I shouldn't forget about YOU , you know , if I didn't live with you . 
I should think about you all the more . 
And in a strange and startling way it happened . 
One evening , just before the Earl's Court cottages were completed , there was a grand dinner party at Dorincourt . 
There had not been such a party at the Castle for a long time . 
She had heard a great deal of him that was not pleasant through the years in which they had been separated . 
But when she heard that Cedric's mother had been parted from him she was almost too indignant for words . 
It is disgraceful , Harry ! she said . 
If I thought it would do any good to write It wouldn't , Constantia , said Sir Harry . 
I know it wouldn't , she answered . 
I know his lordship the Earl of Dorincourt too well but it is outrageous . 
Not only the poor people and farmers heard about little Lord Fauntleroy others knew him . 
It seems incredible ! she exclaimed . 
I have heard it said that the child has worked miracles , and I begin to believe it . 
They say my brother adores the boy and can scarcely endure to have him out of sight . 
And he is so proud of him ! Actually , I believe he wants to show him to us . 
And she accepted the invitation at once . 
When she reached Dorincourt Castle with Sir Harry , it was late in the afternoon , and she went to her room at once before seeing her brother . 
Having dressed for dinner , she entered the drawing room . 
As she shook hands with the Earl , she called him by the name she had not used since her girlhood . 
What , Molyneux ! she said , is this the child ? Yes , Constantia , answered the Earl , this is the boy . 
Fauntleroy , this is your grand aunt , Lady Lorridaile . 
How do you do , Grand Aunt ? said Fauntleroy . 
Lady Lorridaile put her hand on his shoulders , and after looking down into his upraised face a few seconds , kissed him warmly . 
I am your Aunt Constantia , she said , and I loved your poor papa , and you are very like him . 
She bent and kissed him again , and from that moment they were warm friends . 
Well , Molyneux , she said aside to the Earl afterward , it could not possibly be better than this ! I think not , answered his lordship dryly . 
He is a fine little fellow . 
He believes me to be the most charming and sweet tempered of philanthropists . 
What does his mother think of you ? asked Lady Lorridaile , with her usual straightforwardness . 
I have not asked her , answered the Earl , slightly scowling . 
What I hear of the young creature makes me quite sure that her child owes her everything . 
We were told even at Lorridaile Park that your poorer tenants adore her already . 
They adore HIM , said the Earl , nodding toward Fauntleroy . 
As to Mrs. Errol , you'll find her a pretty little woman . 
I'm rather in debt to her for giving some of her beauty to the boy , and you can go to see her if you like . 
All I ask is that she will remain at Court Lodge and that you will not ask me to go and see her , and he scowled a little again . 
But he doesn't hate her as much as he used to , that is plain enough to me , her ladyship said to Sir Harry afterward . 
Why , the child actually loves him leans on his chair and against his knee . 
His own children would as soon have thought of nestling up to a tiger . 
The very next day she went to call upon Mrs. Errol . 
She has given him more than her beauty , and you make a great mistake in not persuading her to come and take charge of you . 
I shall invite her to Lorridaile . 
She'll not leave the boy , replied the Earl . 
I must have the boy too , said Lady Lorridaile , laughing . 
Bevis and Maurice were such a bitter humiliation to him , she said to her husband . 
His pride has full sway here . 
Perhaps there was not one person who accepted the invitation without feeling some curiosity about little Lord Fauntleroy , and wondering if he would be on view . 
And when the time came he was on view . 
The lad has good manners , said the Earl . 
He will be in no one's way . 
Children are usually idiots or bores , mine were both , but he can actually answer when he's spoken to , and be silent when he is not . 
But he was not allowed to be silent very long . 
Every one had something to say to him . 
The fact was they wished to make him talk . 
He thought the whole evening delightful . 
She was dressed in a beautiful white dress , and had pearls around her throat . 
There was one strange thing about this young lady . 
So many gentlemen stood near her , and seemed anxious to please her , that Fauntleroy thought she must be something like a princess . 
He was so much interested in her that without knowing it he drew nearer and nearer to her , and at last she turned and spoke to him . 
Come here , Lord Fauntleroy , she said , smiling and tell me why you look at me so . 
I was thinking how beautiful you are , his young lordship replied . 
Then all the gentlemen laughed outright , and the young lady laughed a little too , and the rose color in her cheeks brightened . 
But nobody could help saying it , said Fauntleroy sweetly . 
But the beautiful young lady her name was Miss Vivian Herbert put out her hand and drew Cedric to her side , looking prettier than before , if possible . 
Lord Fauntleroy shall say what he thinks , she said and I am much obliged to him . 
I am sure he thinks what he says . 
And she kissed him on his cheek . 
I think you are prettier than any one I ever saw , said Fauntleroy , looking at her with innocent , admiring eyes , except Dearest . 
Of course , I couldn't think any one QUITE as pretty as Dearest . 
I think she is the prettiest person in the world . 
I am sure she is , said Miss Vivian Herbert . 
And she laughed and kissed his cheek again . 
She kept him by her side a great part of the evening , and the group of which they were the center was very gay . 
I put it in my pocket to night because it was a party , he said . 
I thought Dick would like me to wear it at a party . 
And queer as the big , flaming , spotted thing was , there was a serious , affectionate look in his eyes , which prevented his audience from laughing very much . 
You see , I like it , he said , because Dick is my friend . 
But though he was talked to so much , as the Earl had said , he was in no one's way . 
He could be quiet and listen when others talked , and so no one found him tiresome . 
Once he stood so near the chair's arm that his cheek touched the Earl's shoulder , and his lordship , detecting the general smile , smiled a little himself . 
Mr. Havisham had been expected to arrive in the afternoon , but , strange to say , he was late . 
Such a thing had really never been known to happen before during all the years in which he had been a visitor at Dorincourt Castle . 
He was so late that the guests were on the point of rising to go in to dinner when he arrived . 
When he approached his host , the Earl regarded him with amazement . 
He looked as if he had been hurried or agitated his dry , keen old face was actually pale . 
I was detained , he said , in a low voice to the Earl , by an extraordinary event . 
It was as unlike the methodic old lawyer to be agitated by anything as it was to be late , but it was evident that he had been disturbed . 
At dinner he ate scarcely anything , and two or three times , when he was spoken to , he started as if his thoughts were far away . 
At dessert , when Fauntleroy came in , he looked at him more than once , nervously and uneasily . 
Fauntleroy noted the look and wondered at it . 
He and Mr. Havisham were on friendly terms , and they usually exchanged smiles . 
The lawyer seemed to have forgotten to smile that evening . 
What a blow it was that he must deal them ! He did not exactly know how the long , superb dinner ended . 
He sat through it as if he were in a dream , and several times he saw the Earl glance at him in surprise . 
But it was over at last , and the gentlemen joined the ladies in the drawing room . 
They did not even quite open when , as it seemed a long time after , some one kissed him lightly on the cheek . 
It was Miss Vivian Herbert , who was going away , and she spoke to him softly . 
Good night , little Lord Fauntleroy , she said . 
Little Lord Fauntleroy was taking his ease luxuriously . 
He made a picture well worth looking at . 
As Mr. Havisham looked at it , he put his hand up and rubbed his shaven chin , with a harassed countenance . 
Well , Havisham , said the Earl's harsh voice behind him . 
What is it ? It is evident something has happened . 
What was the extraordinary event , if I may ask ? Mr. Havisham turned from the sofa , still rubbing his chin . 
It was bad news , he answered , distressing news , my lord the worst of news . 
I am sorry to be the bearer of it . 
The Earl had been uneasy for some time during the evening , as he glanced at Mr. Havisham , and when he was uneasy he was always ill tempered . 
Why do you look so at the boy ! he exclaimed irritably . 
My news has everything to do with Lord Fauntleroy . 
And if we are to believe it it is not Lord Fauntleroy who lies sleeping before us , but only the son of Captain Errol . 
And the present Lord Fauntleroy is the son of your son Bevis , and is at this moment in a lodging house in London . 
What do you mean ! he cried out . 
You are mad ! Whose lie is this ? If it is a lie , answered Mr. Havisham , it is painfully like the truth . 
A woman came to my chambers this morning . 
She said your son Bevis married her six years ago in London . 
She showed me her marriage certificate . 
They quarrelled a year after the marriage , and he paid her to keep away from him . 
She has a son five years old . 
She is an American of the lower classes , an ignorant person , and until lately she did not fully understand what her son could claim . 
There was a movement of the curly head on the yellow satin cushion . 
A soft , long , sleepy sigh came from the parted lips , and the little boy stirred in his sleep , but not at all restlessly or uneasily . 
He only turned his rosy face more on its side , as if to enable the old man who stared at it so solemnly to see it better . 
The handsome , grim old face was ghastly . 
A bitter smile fixed itself upon it . 
It is quite like Bevis . 
He was always a disgrace to us . 
Always a weak , untruthful , vicious young brute with low tastes my son and heir , Bevis , Lord Fauntleroy . 
The woman is an ignorant , vulgar person , you say ? I am obliged to admit that she can scarcely spell her own name , answered the lawyer . 
She is absolutely uneducated and openly mercenary . 
She cares for nothing but the money . 
She is very handsome in a coarse way , but The fastidious old lawyer ceased speaking and gave a sort of shudder . 
The veins on the old Earl's forehead stood out like purple cords . 
Something else stood out upon it too cold drops of moisture . 
He took out his handkerchief and swept them away . 
His smile grew even more bitter . 
I refused to recognize her . 
And yet she could spell her own name . 
I suppose this is retribution . 
Suddenly he sprang up from his chair and began to walk up and down the room . 
Fierce and terrible words poured forth from his lips . 
His rage and hatred and cruel disappointment shook him as a storm shakes a tree . 
I might have known it , he said . 
They were a disgrace to me from their first hour ! I hated them both and they hated me ! Bevis was the worse of the two . 
I will not believe this yet , though ! I will contend against it to the last . 
When at last he had learned all there was to be told , and knew the worst , Mr. Havisham looked at him with a feeling of anxiety . 
He looked broken and haggard and changed . 
His rages had always been bad for him , but this one had been worse than the rest because there had been something more than rage in it . 
He came slowly back to the sofa , at last , and stood near it . 
If any one had told me I could be fond of a child , he said , his harsh voice low and unsteady , I should not have believed them . 
I always detested children my own more than the rest . 
I am fond of this one he is fond of me . 
I am not popular I never was . 
But he is fond of me . 
He never was afraid of me he always trusted me . 
He would have filled my place better than I have filled it . 
He would have been an honor to the name . 
He bent down and stood a minute or so looking at the happy , sleeping face . 
His shaggy eyebrows were knitted fiercely , and yet somehow he did not seem fierce at all . 
He put up his hand , pushed the bright hair back from the forehead , and then turned away and rang the bell . 
When the largest footman appeared , he pointed to the sofa . 
Take he said , and then his voice changed a little take Lord Fauntleroy to his room . 
He was not mentally energetic enough to know how to amuse himself , and in truth he never did anything of an entertaining nature but read the newspapers and add up his accounts . 
He did not even enjoy his newspaper as much as he used to . 
He would put the paper down on his knee after reading it , and sit and stare at the high stool for a long time . 
There were some marks on the long legs which made him feel quite dejected and melancholy . 
They were marks made by the heels of the next Earl of Dorincourt , when he kicked and talked at the same time . 
It seems that even youthful earls kick the legs of things they sit on noble blood and lofty lineage do not prevent it . 
After looking at those marks , Mr. Hobbs would take out his gold watch and open it and stare at the inscription From his oldest friend , Lord Fauntleroy , to Mr. Hobbs . 
When this you see , remember me . 
This went on for two or three weeks before any new idea came to him . 
Being slow and ponderous , it always took him a long time to reach a new idea . 
As a rule , he did not like new ideas , but preferred old ones . 
After two or three weeks , however , during which , instead of getting better , matters really grew worse , a novel plan slowly and deliberately dawned upon him . 
He would go to see Dick . 
He smoked a great many pipes before he arrived at the conclusion , but finally he did arrive at it . 
He would go to see Dick . 
He knew all about Dick . 
Cedric had told him , and his idea was that perhaps Dick might be some comfort to him in the way of talking things over . 
Then when Dick fell to work , the stout man looked from Dick to the sign and from the sign to Dick . 
Where did you get that ? he asked . 
From a friend o' mine , said Dick , a little feller . 
He guv' me the whole outfit . 
He was the best little feller ye ever saw . 
Gone to be one o' them lords . 
Lord Lord asked Mr. Hobbs , with ponderous slowness , Lord Fauntleroy Goin' to be Earl of Dorincourt ? Dick almost dropped his brush . 
Why , boss ! he exclaimed , d' ye know him yerself ? I've known him , answered Mr. Hobbs , wiping his warm forehead , ever since he was born . 
We was lifetime acquaintances that's what WE was . 
It really made him feel quite agitated to speak of it . 
He pulled the splendid gold watch out of his pocket and opened it , and showed the inside of the case to Dick . 
When this you see , remember me , he read . 
He was a companion as ANY man would remember . 
He was the nicest little feller I ever see , said Dick . 
An' as to sand I never seen so much sand to a little feller . 
I thought a heap o' him , I did , an' we was friends , too we was sort o' chums from the fust , that little young un an' me . 
He was a gay little chap , and when you was down on your luck , it did you good to talk to him . 
That's so , said Mr. Hobbs . 
It was a pity to make a earl out of HIM . 
He would have SHONE in the grocery business or dry goods either he would have SHONE ! And he shook his head with deeper regret than ever . 
The plan pleased Dick well enough . 
So , to be invited to call on a stout , respectable man who owned a corner store , and even had a horse and wagon , seemed to him quite an event . 
Do you know anything about earls and castles ? Mr. Hobbs inquired . 
I'd like to know more of the particklars . 
There's a story about some on 'em in the Penny Story Gazette , said Dick . 
It's called the Crime of a Coronet or , The Revenge of the Countess May . 
It's a boss thing , too . 
Some of us boys 're takin' it to read . 
Bring it up when you come , said Mr. Hobbs , an' I'll pay for it . 
Bring all you can find that have any earls in 'em . 
If there are n't earls , markises'll do , or dooks though HE never made mention of any dooks or markises . 
We did go over coronets a little , but I never happened to see any . 
I guess they don't keep 'em 'round here . 
Tiffany 'd have 'em if anybody did , said Dick , but I don't know as I'd know one if I saw it . 
Mr. Hobbs did not explain that he would not have known one if he saw it . 
He merely shook his head ponderously . 
I s'pose there is very little call for 'em , he said , and that ended the matter . 
This was the beginning of quite a substantial friendship . 
When Dick went up to the store , Mr. Hobbs received him with great hospitality . 
Then he looked at the story papers , and after that they read and discussed the British aristocracy and Mr. Hobbs smoked his pipe very hard and shook his head a great deal . 
He shook it most when he pointed out the high stool with the marks on its legs . 
There's his very kicks , he said impressively his very kicks . 
I sit and look at 'em by the hour . 
This is a world of ups an' it's a world of downs . 
Them's a lord's kicks they'll be a earl's kicks some day . 
Sometimes I says to myself , says I , Well , I'll be jiggered ! He seemed to derive a great deal of comfort from his reflections and Dick's visit . 
One day Mr. Hobbs made a pilgrimage to a book store down town , for the express purpose of adding to their library . 
He went to the clerk and leaned over the counter to speak to him . 
I want , he said , a book about earls . 
What ! exclaimed the clerk . 
A book , repeated the grocery man , about earls . 
I'm afraid , said the clerk , looking rather queer , that we haven't what you want . 
Haven't ? said Mr. Hobbs , anxiously . 
Well , say markises then or dooks . 
I know of no such book , answered the clerk . 
Mr. Hobbs was much disturbed . 
He looked down on the floor , then he looked up . 
None about female earls ? he inquired . 
I'm afraid not , said the clerk with a smile . 
Mr. Hobbs said it would if he could not get an entire volume devoted to earls . 
So the clerk sold him a book called The Tower of London , written by Mr. Harrison Ainsworth , and he carried it home . 
When Dick came they began to read it . 
It was a very wonderful and exciting book , and the scene was laid in the reign of the famous English queen who is called by some people Bloody Mary . 
He took his pipe out of his mouth and stared at Dick , and at last he was obliged to mop the perspiration from his brow with his red pocket handkerchief . 
Why , he ain't safe ! he said . 
I know her name's Victory , an' this un here in the book , her name's Mary . 
So it is , said Mr. Hobbs , still mopping his forehead so it is . 
But they both found great pleasure in their letters . 
They read and re read them , and talked them over and enjoyed every word of them . 
And they spent days over the answers they sent and read them over almost as often as the letters they had received . 
It was rather a labor for Dick to write his . 
He told Mr. Hobbs all about his life and about his elder brother , who had been rather good to him after their mother died , when Dick was quite a little fellow . 
Their father had died some time before . 
The brother's name was Ben , and he had taken care of Dick as well as he could , until the boy was old enough to sell newspapers and run errands . 
They had lived together , and as he grew older Ben had managed to get along until he had quite a decent place in a store . 
An' a hefty un she was , a regular tiger cat . 
She'd tear things to pieces when she got mad , and she was mad ALL the time . 
Had a baby just like her , yell day 'n' night ! An' if I didn't have to 'tend it ! an' when it screamed , she'd fire things at me . 
She fired a plate at me one day , an' hit the baby cut its chin . 
Doctor said he'd carry the mark till he died . 
A nice mother she was ! Crackey ! but didn't we have a time Ben 'n' mehself 'n' the young un . 
She was mad at Ben because he didn't make money faster 'n' at last he went out West with a man to set up a cattle ranch . 
An' hadn't been gone a week'fore one night , I got home from sellin' my papers , 'n' the rooms wus locked up 'n' empty , 'n' the woman o' the house . 
she told me Minna 'd gone shown a clean pair o' heels . 
Some un else said she'd gone across the water to be nuss to a lady as had a little baby , too . 
Never heard a word of her since nuther has Ben . 
If I'd ha' bin him , I wouldn't ha' fretted a bit 'n' I guess he didn't . 
But he thought a heap o' her at the start . 
Tell you , he was spoons on her . 
She was a daisy lookin' gal , too , when she was dressed up 'n' not mad . 
That gal , said Dick one day , she took all the grit out o' him . 
I couldn't help feelin' sorry for him sometimes . 
They were sitting in the store door way together , and Mr. Hobbs was filling his pipe . 
He oughtn't to 've married , he said solemnly , as he rose to get a match . 
Women I never could see any use in 'em myself . 
As he took the match from its box , he stopped and looked down on the counter . 
Why ! he said , if here isn't a letter ! I didn't see it before . 
The postman must have laid it down when I wasn't noticin' , or the newspaper slipped over it . 
He picked it up and looked at it carefully . 
It's from HIM ! he exclaimed . 
That's the very one it's from ! He forgot his pipe altogether . 
He went back to his chair quite excited and took his pocket knife and opened the envelope . 
I wonder what news there is this time , he said . 
Mr. Hobbs fell back in his chair , the letter dropped on his knee , his pen knife slipped to the floor , and so did the envelope . 
Well ! he ejaculated , I am jiggered ! He was so dumfounded that he actually changed his exclamation . 
It had always been his habit to say , I WILL be jiggered , but this time he said , I AM jiggered . 
Perhaps he really WAS jiggered . 
Well , said Dick , the whole thing's bust up , hasn't it ? Bust ! said Mr. Hobbs . 
It's my opinion it's a put up job o' the British ristycrats to rob him of his rights because he's an American . 
They've had a spite agin us ever since the Revolution , an' they're takin' it out on him . 
I told you he wasn't safe , an' see what's happened ! Like as not , the whole gover'ment's got together to rob him of his lawful ownin's . 
He was very much agitated . 
They're trying to rob him ! he said , that's what they're doing , and folks that have money ought to look after him . 
XII A very few days after the dinner party at the Castle , almost everybody in England who read the newspapers at all knew the romantic story of what had happened at Dorincourt . 
It made a very interesting story when it was told with all the details . 
All these things were talked about and written about , and caused a tremendous sensation . 
There never had been such excitement before in the county in which Erleboro was situated . 
They related wonderful anecdotes about the Earl's rage and his determination not to acknowledge the new Lord Fauntleroy , and his hatred of the woman who was the claimant's mother . 
But , of course , it was Mrs. Dibble who could tell the most , and who was more in demand than ever . 
An' a bad lookout it is , she said . 
An' what's more , this new one's no lady , as his little lordship's ma is . 
An' the boy don't no more compare with the other one than nothin' you could mention . 
An' mercy knows what's goin' to come of it all , an' where it's to end , an' you might have knocked me down with a feather when Jane brought the news . 
He was a one as it were some pleasure to ride behind . 
But in the midst of all the disturbance there was one person who was quite calm and untroubled . 
That person was the little Lord Fauntleroy who was said not to be Lord Fauntleroy at all . 
When first the state of affairs had been explained to him , he had felt some little anxiousness and perplexity , it is true , but its foundation was not in baffled ambition . 
It makes me feel very queer , he said it makes me feel queer ! The Earl looked at the boy in silence . 
It made him feel queer , too queerer than he had ever felt in his whole life . 
And he felt more queer still when he saw that there was a troubled expression on the small face which was usually so happy . 
Will they take Dearest's house from her and her carriage ? Cedric asked in a rather unsteady , anxious little voice . 
NO ! said the Earl decidedly in quite a loud voice , in fact . 
They can take nothing from her . 
Ah ! said Cedric , with evident relief . 
Can't they ? Then he looked up at his grandfather , and there was a wistful shade in his eyes , and they looked very big and soft . 
No ? he exclaimed , in wonderment . 
Won't he ? I thought He stood up from his stool quite suddenly . 
Shall I be your boy , even if I'm not going to be an earl ? he said . 
Shall I be your boy , just as I was before ? And his flushed little face was all alight with eagerness . 
Cedric's face turned red to the roots of his hair it turned red with relief and pleasure . 
He put both his hands deep into his pockets and looked squarely into his noble relative's eyes . 
Do you ? he said . 
Well , then , I don't care about the earl part at all . 
I don't care whether I'm an earl or not . 
I thought you see , I thought the one that was going to be the Earl would have to be your boy , too , and and I couldn't be . 
That was what made me feel so queer . 
The Earl put his hand on his shoulder and drew him nearer . 
They shall take nothing from you that I can hold for you , he said , drawing his breath hard . 
I won't believe yet that they can take anything from you . 
You were made for the place , and well , you may fill it still . 
He had never before known how deep a hold upon him his fondness for the boy and his pride in him had taken . 
He had never seen his strength and good qualities and beauty as he seemed to see them now . 
To his obstinate nature it seemed impossible more than impossible to give up what he had so set his heart upon . 
And he had determined that he would not give it up without a fierce struggle . 
Within a few days after she had seen Mr. Havisham , the woman who claimed to be Lady Fauntleroy presented herself at the Castle , and brought her child with her . 
The Earl would not see her , she was told by the footman at the door his lawyer would attend to her case . 
It was Thomas who gave the message , and who expressed his opinion of her freely afterward , in the servants' hall . 
The one at the Lodge , added Thomas loftily , 'Merican or no 'Merican , she's one o' the right sort , as any gentleman 'u'd reckinize with all a heye . 
I remarked it myself to Henery when fust we called there . 
The woman drove away the look on her handsome , common face half frightened , half fierce . 
It was as if she had not expected to meet with such opposition . 
She is evidently , the lawyer said to Mrs. Errol , a person from the lower walks of life . 
She is uneducated and untrained in everything , and quite unused to meeting people like ourselves on any terms of equality . 
She does not know what to do . 
Her visit to the Castle quite cowed her . 
She was infuriated , but she was cowed . 
The Earl would not receive her , but I advised him to go with me to the Dorincourt Arms , where she is staying . 
When she saw him enter the room , she turned white , though she flew into a rage at once , and threatened and demanded in one breath . 
He simply stared at her , taking her in from head to foot as if she were some repulsive curiosity . 
He let her talk and demand until she was tired , without himself uttering a word , and then he said You say you are my eldest son's wife . 
If that is true , and if the proof you offer is too much for us , the law is on your side . 
In that case , your boy is Lord Fauntleroy . 
The matter will be sifted to the bottom , you may rest assured . 
If your claims are proved , you will be provided for . 
I want to see nothing of either you or the child so long as I live . 
The place will unfortunately have enough of you after my death . 
You are exactly the kind of person I should have expected my son Bevis to choose . 
And then he turned his back upon her and stalked out of the room as he had stalked into it . 
Not many days after that , a visitor was announced to Mrs. Errol , who was writing in her little morning room . 
It's the Earl hisself , ma'am ! she said in tremulous awe . 
When Mrs. Errol entered the drawing room , a very tall , majestic looking old man was standing on the tiger skin rug . 
He had a handsome , grim old face , with an aquiline profile , a long white mustache , and an obstinate look . 
Mrs. Errol , I believe ? he said . 
Mrs. Errol , she answered . 
I am the Earl of Dorincourt , he said . 
He paused a moment , almost unconsciously , to look into her uplifted eyes . 
The boy is very like you , he said abruptly . 
It has been often said so , my lord , she replied , but I have been glad to think him like his father also . 
As Lady Lorridaile had told him , her voice was very sweet , and her manner was very simple and dignified . 
She did not seem in the least troubled by his sudden coming . 
Yes , said the Earl . 
he is like my son too . 
He put his hand up to his big white mustache and pulled it fiercely . 
I have come to tell you that the boy shall be defended with all the power of the law . 
His rights The soft voice interrupted him . 
He must have nothing that is NOT his by right , even if the law can give it to him , she said . 
Unfortunately the law can not , said the Earl . 
If it could , it should . 
This outrageous woman and her child Perhaps she cares for him as much as I care for Cedric , my lord , said little Mrs. Errol . 
And if she was your eldest son's wife , her son is Lord Fauntleroy , and mine is not . 
People so seldom dared to differ from him that there was an entertaining novelty in it . 
I suppose , he said , scowling slightly , that you would much prefer that he should not be the Earl of Dorincourt . 
Her fair young face flushed . 
It is a very magnificent thing to be the Earl of Dorincourt , my lord , she said . 
I know that , but I care most that he should be what his father was brave and just and true always . 
In striking contrast to what his grandfather was , eh ? said his lordship sardonically . 
That was why I did not wish him to know . 
Well , said my lord brusquely , there are few women who would not have told him . 
He suddenly began to walk up and down the room , pulling his great mustache more violently than ever . 
Yes , he is fond of me , he said , and I am fond of him . 
I can't say I ever was fond of anything before . 
I am fond of him . 
He pleased me from the first . 
I am an old man , and was tired of my life . 
He has given me something to live for . 
I am proud of him . 
I was satisfied to think of his taking his place some day as the head of the family . 
He came back and stood before Mrs. Errol . 
I am miserable , he said . 
Miserable ! He looked as if he was . 
Even his pride could not keep his voice steady or his hands from shaking . 
For a moment it almost seemed as if his deep , fierce eyes had tears in them . 
Perhaps it is because I am miserable that I have come to you , he said , quite glaring down at her . 
I used to hate you I have been jealous of you . 
This wretched , disgraceful business has changed that . 
After seeing that repulsive woman who calls herself the wife of my son Bevis , I actually felt it would be a relief to look at you . 
I have been an obstinate old fool , and I suppose I have treated you badly . 
You are like the boy , and the boy is the first object in my life . 
I am miserable , and I came to you merely because you are like the boy , and he cares for you , and I care for him . 
Treat me as well as you can , for the boy's sake . 
He said it all in his harsh voice , and almost roughly , but somehow he seemed so broken down for the time that Mrs. Errol was touched to the heart . 
She got up and moved an arm chair a little forward . 
I wish you would sit down , she said in a soft , pretty , sympathetic way . 
You have been so much troubled that you are very tired , and you need all your strength . 
It was just as new to him to be spoken to and cared for in that gentle , simple way as it was to be contradicted . 
He was reminded of the boy again , and he actually did as she asked him . 
Almost anything would have seemed pleasant by contrast with Lady Fauntleroy and this one had so sweet a face and voice , and a pretty dignity when she spoke or moved . 
Very soon , through the quiet magic of these influences , he began to feel less gloomy , and then he talked still more . 
Whatever happens , he said , the boy shall be provided for . 
He shall be taken care of , now and in the future . 
Before he went away , he glanced around the room . 
Do you like the house ? he demanded . 
Very much , she answered . 
This is a cheerful room , he said . 
May I come here again and talk this matter over ? As often as you wish , my lord , she replied . 
And then he went out to his carriage and drove away , Thomas and Henry almost stricken dumb upon the box at the turn affairs had taken . 
The story was too interesting to be passed over lightly , and it was talked of a great deal . 
There were so many versions of it that it would have been an edifying thing to buy all the papers and compare them . 
Mr. Hobbs read so much about it that he became quite bewildered . 
Then came the descriptions of the new Lord Fauntleroy and his mother . 
Mr. Hobbs used to read the papers until his head was in a whirl , and in the evening he and Dick would talk it all over . 
Seems like somethin' orter be done , said Mr. Hobbs . 
Things like them orter be held on to earls or no earls . 
But there really was nothing they could do but each write a letter to Cedric , containing assurances of their friendship and sympathy . 
They wrote those letters as soon as they could after receiving the news and after having written them , they handed them over to each other to be read . 
There is a lot of ole theves wil make al they kin of u ef u dont kepe ure i skined . 
But this is mosly to say that ive not forgot wot u did fur me an if there aint no better way cum over here an go in pardners with me . 
And this was what Dick read in Mr. Hobbs's letter DEAR SIR Yrs received and wd say things looks bad . 
I believe its a put up job and them thats done it ought to be looked after sharp . 
And what I write to say is two things . 
Im going to look this thing up . 
Well , said Mr. Hobbs , he's pervided for between us , if he aint a earl . 
So he is , said Dick . 
I'd ha' stood by him . 
Blest if I didn't like that little feller fust rate . 
The very next morning , one of Dick's customers was rather surprised . 
He had just finished looking it over , and when the last boot was polished , he handed it over to the boy . 
Here's a paper for you , Dick , he said you can look it over when you drop in at Delmonico's for your breakfast . 
Picture of an English castle in it , and an English earl's daughter in law . 
Fine young woman , too , lots of hair , though she seems to be raising rather a row . 
You ought to become familiar with the nobility and gentry , Dick . 
Begin on the Right Honorable the Earl of Dorincourt and Lady Fauntleroy . 
What's to pay , Dick ? said the young man . 
What has paralyzed you ? Dick really did look as if something tremendous had happened . 
He pointed to the picture , under which was written Mother of Claimant . 
It was the picture of a handsome woman , with large eyes and heavy braids of black hair wound around her head . 
My , I know her better 'n I know you ! The young man began to laugh . 
Where did you meet her , Dick ? he said . 
At Newport ? Or when you ran over to Paris the last time ? Dick actually forgot to grin . 
He began to gather his brushes and things together , as if he had something to do which would put an end to his business for the present . 
Never mind , he said . 
I know her ! An I've struck work for this mornin' . 
And in less than five minutes from that time he was tearing through the streets on his way to Mr. Hobbs and the corner store . 
Mr. Hobbs could scarcely believe the evidence of his senses when he looked across the counter and saw Dick rush in with the paper in his hand . 
The boy was out of breath with running so much out of breath , in fact , that he could scarcely speak as he threw the paper down on the counter . 
Hello ! exclaimed Mr. Hobbs . 
Hello ! What you got there ? Look at it ! panted Dick . 
Look at that woman in the picture ! That's what you look at ! SHE aint no 'ristocrat , SHE aint ! with withering scorn . 
You may eat me , if it aint Minna MINNA ! I'd know her anywheres , an' so 'd Ben . 
Mr. Hobbs dropped into his seat . 
I knowed it was a put up job , he said . 
I knowed it and they done it on account o' him bein' a 'Merican ! Done it ! cried Dick , with disgust . 
SHE done it , that's who done it . 
She was allers up to her tricks an' I'll tell yer wot come to me , the minnit I saw her pictur . 
There was one o' them papers we saw had a letter in it that said somethin' 'bout her boy , an' it said he had a scar on his chin . 
Professor Dick Tipton had always been a sharp boy , and earning his living in the streets of a big city had made him still sharper . 
He had learned to keep his eyes open and his wits about him , and it must be confessed he enjoyed immensely the excitement and impatience of that moment . 
Mr. Hobbs was almost overwhelmed by his sense of responsibility , and Dick was all alive and full of energy . 
They were in the midst of this letter writing when a new idea came to Dick . 
Say , he said , the feller that give me the paper , he's a lawyer . 
Let's ax him what we'd better do . 
Mr. Hobbs was immensely impressed by this suggestion and Dick's business capacity . 
That's so ! he replied . 
This here calls for lawyers . 
It appears there has been some dubiousness about the child . 
The woman contradicted herself in some of her statements about his age , and aroused suspicion . 
The first persons to be written to are Dick's brother and the Earl of Dorincourt's family lawyer . 
And the first was addressed to T. Havisham , Esq . 
, and the second to Benjamin Tipton . 
And after the store was closed that evening , Mr. Hobbs and Dick sat in the back room and talked together until midnight . 
XIV It is astonishing how short a time it takes for very wonderful things to happen . 
All the mistakes she made were about her child . 
The story these letters bring fits in with several of my suspicions . 
Our best plan will be to cable at once for these two Tiptons , say nothing about them to her , and suddenly confront her with them when she is not expecting it . 
She is only a very clumsy plotter , after all . 
My opinion is that she will be frightened out of her wits , and will betray herself on the spot . 
And that was what actually happened . 
She sprang to her feet and actually uttered a cry of terror . 
It broke from her before she had time to check it . 
She had thought of these new comers as being thousands of miles away , when she had ever thought of them at all , which she had scarcely done for years . 
She had never expected to see them again . 
It must be confessed that Dick grinned a little when he saw her . 
Hello , Minna ! he said . 
The big young man who was Ben stood still a minute and looked at her . 
Do you know her ? Mr. Havisham asked , glancing from one to the other . 
I know her and she knows me . 
And he turned his back on her and went and stood looking out of the window , as if the sight of her was hateful to him , as indeed it was . 
Then the woman , seeing herself so baffled and exposed , lost all control over herself and flew into such a rage as Ben and Dick had often seen her in before . 
Dick grinned a trifle more as he watched her and heard the names she called them all and the violent threats she made , but Ben did not turn to look at her . 
I can swear to her in any court , he said to Mr. Havisham , and I can bring a dozen others who will . 
Her father is a respectable sort of man , though he's low down in the world . 
Her mother was just like herself . 
She's dead , but he's alive , and he's honest enough to be ashamed of her . 
He'll tell you who she is , and whether she married me or not Then he clenched his hand suddenly and turned on her . 
Where's the child ? he demanded . 
Ben walked up to him and took his hand , and his own was trembling . 
Yes , he said , I could swear to him , too . 
Tom , he said to the little fellow , I'm your father I've come to take you away . 
Where's your hat ? The boy pointed to where it lay on a chair . 
It evidently rather pleased him to hear that he was going away . 
He had been so accustomed to queer experiences that it did not surprise him to be told by a stranger that he was his father . 
Ben took up the hat and marched to the door . 
If you want me again , he said to Mr. Havisham , you know where to find me . 
He walked out of the room , holding the child's hand and not looking at the woman once . 
She was fairly raving with fury , and the Earl was calmly gazing at her through his eyeglasses , which he had quietly placed upon his aristocratic , eagle nose . 
Come , come , my young woman , said Mr. Havisham . 
This won't do at all . 
If you don't want to be locked up , you really must behave yourself . 
We shall have no more trouble with her , said Mr. Havisham . 
And he was right for that very night she left the Dorincourt Arms and took the train to London , and was seen no more . 
When the Earl left the room after the interview , he went at once to his carriage . 
To Court Lodge , he said to Thomas . 
To Court Lodge , said Thomas to the coachman as he mounted the box an' you may depend on it , things are taking a uniggspected turn . 
When the carriage stopped at Court Lodge , Cedric was in the drawing room with his mother . 
The Earl came in without being announced . 
He looked an inch or so taller , and a great many years younger . 
Where , he said , is Lord Fauntleroy ? Mrs. Errol came forward , a flush rising to her cheek . 
Is it Lord Fauntleroy ? she asked . 
Is it , indeed ! The Earl put out his hand and grasped hers . 
Yes , he answered , it is . 
Then he put his other hand on Cedric's shoulder . 
Fauntleroy , he said in his unceremonious , authoritative way , ask your mother when she will come to us at the Castle . 
Fauntleroy flung his arms around his mother's neck . 
To live with us ! he cried . 
To live with us always ! The Earl looked at Mrs. Errol , and Mrs. Errol looked at the Earl . 
His lordship was entirely in earnest . 
He had made up his mind to waste no time in arranging this matter . 
He had begun to think it would suit him to make friends with his heir's mother . 
Are you quite sure you want me ? said Mrs. Errol , with her soft , pretty smile . 
Quite sure , he said bluntly . 
We have always wanted you , but we were not exactly aware of it . 
We hope you will come . 
XV Ben took his boy and went back to his cattle ranch in California , and he returned under very comfortable circumstances . 
But Dick and Mr. Hobbs who had actually come over with the others to see that things were properly looked after did not return for some time . 
All the tenantry were invited , and there were to be feasting and dancing and games in the park , and bonfires and fire works in the evening . 
Just like the Fourth of July ! said Lord Fauntleroy . 
It seems a pity my birthday wasn't on the Fourth , doesn't it ? For then we could keep them both together . 
It must be confessed that at first the Earl and Mr. Hobbs were not as intimate as it might have been hoped they would become , in the interests of the British aristocracy . 
It must also be owned that Mr. Hobbs had been rather overwhelmed by the splendors Fauntleroy felt it his duty to show him . 
But it was the picture gallery which seemed to be the finishing stroke . 
Somethin' in the manner of a museum ? he said to Fauntleroy , when he was led into the great , beautiful room . 
N no ! said Fauntleroy , rather doubtfully . 
I don't THINK it's a museum . 
My grandfather says these are my ancestors . 
Your aunt's sisters ! ejaculated Mr. Hobbs . 
At any rate , one day he uttered a very remarkable and unexpected sentiment I wouldn't have minded bein' one of 'em myself ! he said which was really a great concession . 
Every one wanted to have a look at him , and at his pretty , kind mother , who had made so many friends . 
At the Castle , there were ladies and gentlemen who had come to see the fun , and to congratulate the Earl , and to meet Mrs. Errol . 
The whole world seemed beautiful to him . 
Perhaps , indeed , I shall tell you that I think it was because he was rather better than he had been that he was rather happier . 
And every day he had been more pleased with his son's wife . 
It was true , as the people said , that he was beginning to like her too . 
It is a very little thing , perhaps , but it is the best thing of all . 
He knew nothing of earls and castles he was quite ignorant of all grand and splendid things but he was always lovable because he was simple and loving . 
To be so is like being born a king . 
And if there had ever been any doubt at all as to whether his lordship was popular or not , it would have been set that instant . 
He stood and smiled , and made bows , and flushed rosy red with pleasure up to the roots of his bright hair . 
Is it because they like me , Dearest ? he said to his mother . 
Fauntleroy gave a glance up at him and then at his mother . 
Must I ? he asked just a trifle shyly , and she smiled , and so did Miss Herbert , and they both nodded . 
Not to live there , he said . 
Not to live there I want to be near HIM , an' sort o' look after him . 
It's a good enough country for them that's young an' stirrin' but there's faults in it . 
