No longer associated with the divine right of kings , it has survived the downfall of feudal and theocratic systems as a mystic personal emanation in place of a coercive weapon of statecraft . 
Freed from its ancient shackles of dogma and despotism it eludes analysis . 
We know not how to gauge its effect on others , nor even upon ourselves . 
Like the wind , it permeates the atmosphere we breathe , and baffles while it stimulates the mind with its intangible but compelling force . 
This psychic power , which the dead weight of materialism is impotent to suppress , is revealed in the lives and writings of men of the most diverse creeds and nationalities . 
This is the prevailing attitude of politicians and literary men . 
Unhappily , when an idealistic creed is formulated in precise and dogmatic language , it invariably loses something of its pristine beauty in the process of transmutation . 
Hence the Positivist philosophy of Comte , though embodying noble aspirations , has had but a limited influence . 
The dumb and submissive moujik found in Tolstoy a living voice to express his sufferings . 
Tolstoy was well fitted by nature and circumstances to be the peasant's spokesman . 
He had been brought into intimate contact with him in the varying conditions of peace and war , and he knew him at his worst and best . 
'Then what does it result from ? said Pierre . 
'From the feeling that is in me , that is in him' pointing to Timokhine 'and that is in each individual soldier . 
He then contrasts the different spirit animating the officers and the men . 
'The former , he says , 'have nothing in view but their personal interests . 
The critical moment for them is the moment at which they are able to supplant a rival , to win a cross or a new order . 
I see only one thing . 
To morrow one hundred thousand Russians and one hundred thousand Frenchmen will meet to fight they who fight the hardest and spare themselves the least will win the day . 
'There's the truth , your Excellency , the real truth , murmurs Timokhine 'it is not a time to spare oneself . 
Would you believe it , the men of my battalion have not tasted brandy ? It's not a day for that , they said . 
During the momentous battle which followed , Pierre was struck by the steadfastness under fire which has always distinguished the Russian soldier . 
The fall of each man acted as an increasing stimulus . 
The faces of the soldiers brightened more and more , as if challenging the storm let loose on them . 
In contrast with this picture of fine morale is that of the young white faced officer , looking nervously about him as he walks backwards with lowered sword . 
There was not a grey hair on his head or in his beard , and his bearing wore the stamp of activity , resolution , and above all , stoicism . 
His face , though much lined , had a touching expression of simplicity , youth , and innocence . 
When he spoke , in his soft sing song voice , his speech flowed as from a well spring . 
He never thought about what he had said or was going to say next , and the vivacity and the rhythmical inflections of his voice gave it a penetrating persuasiveness . 
Night and morning , when going to rest or getting up , he said , 'O God , let me sleep like a stone and rise up like a loaf . 
His singing was tender , sweet , plaintive , almost feminine , in keeping with his serious countenance . 
This clearly is a study from life , a leaf from Tolstoy's Crimean Journal . 
, and shows , like them , the change effected by the realities of war in the intolerant young aristocrat , who previously excluded all but the comme il faut from his consideration . 
With widened outlook and new ideals he returned to St . 
Petersburg at the close of the Crimean campaign , to be welcomed by the elite of letters and courted by society . 
A few years before he would have been delighted with such a reception . 
Now it jarred on his awakened sense of the tragedy of existence . 
He found himself entirely out of sympathy with the group of literary men who gathered round him , with Turgenev at their head . 
In Tolstoy's eyes they were false , paltry , and immoral , and he was at no pains to disguise his opinions . 
Petersburg , shook off the dust of the capital , and , after resigning his commission in the army , went abroad on a tour through Germany , Switzerland , and France . 
He left France for Switzerland , and there , among beautiful natural surroundings , and in the society of friends , he enjoyed a respite from mental strain . 
This lady , the Countess Alexandra A. Tolstoy , a Maid of Honour of the Bedchamber , moved exclusively in Court circles . 
From one of the countess's first letters we learn that the feelings of affection , hope , and happiness which possessed Tolstoy in Switzerland irresistibly communicated themselves to those about him . 
You are good in a very uncommon way , she writes , and that is why it is difficult to feel unhappy in your company . 
I have never seen you without wishing to be a better creature . 
Your presence is a consoling idea . 
know all the elements in you that revive one's heart , possibly without your being even aware of it . 
A few years later she gives him an amusing account of the impression his writings had already made on an eminent statesman . 
I owe you a small episode . 
Not long ago , when lunching with the Emperor , I sat next our little Bismarck , and in a spirit of mischief I began sounding him about you . 
What a pity I can't repeat it verbatim ! but how ? There was nothing left but a jumble of confused sounds and broken words . 
Tolstoy on his side is equally expansive , and in the early stages of the correspondence falls occasionally into the vein of self analysis which in later days became habitual . 
As a child I believed with passion and without any thought . 
Then at the age of fourteen I began to think about life and preoccupied myself with religion , but it did not adjust itself to my theories and so I broke with it . 
Without it I was able to live quite contentedly for ten years . 
everything in my life was evenly distributed , and there was no room for religion . 
Then came a time when everything grew intelligible there were no more secrets in life , but life itself had lost its significance . 
It was a torturing but a happy time . 
Further on he writes , In those two years of intellectual work , I discovered a truth which is ancient and simple , but which yet I know better than others do . 
I found out that immortal life is a reality , that love is a reality , and that one must live for others if one would be unceasingly happy . 
At this point one realises the gulf which divides the Slavonic from the English temperament . 
would pursue reflections of this kind , or if he did , he would in all probability keep them sedulously to himself . 
Not till we understand the main outlines of the Russian temperament can we realise the individuality of Tolstoy himself the personality that made him lovable , the universality that made him great . 
He is usually very susceptible to feminine charm , an ardent but unstable lover , whose passions are apt to be as shortlived as they are violent . 
Story telling and long winded discussions give him keen enjoyment , for he is garrulous , metaphysical , and argumentative . 
Capable , besides , of high flights of idealism , which result in epics , but rarely in actions , owing to the Slavonic inaptitude for sustained and organised effort . 
The Englishman by contrast appears cold and calculating , incapable of rising above questions of practical utility neither interested in other men's antecedents and experiences nor willing to retail his own . 
The naivete and kindliness of the questioner makes it impossible to resent , though one may feebly try to parry his probing . 
On the other hand he offers you free access to the inmost recesses of his own soul , and stupefies you with the candour of his revelations . 
He is like a beast of burden who flinches from every approach , expecting always a kick or a blow . 
He frequently brings his heroes into touch with Nature , and endows them with all the innate mysticism of his own temperament , for to him Nature was a guide to God . 
'Springtime , love , happiness ? are you still cherishing those deceptive illusions ? the old oak seemed to say . 
'Isn't it the same fiction ever ? There is neither spring , nor love , nor happiness ! Look at those poor weather beaten firs , always the same . 
'Yes , that oak is right , right a thousand times over . 
One must leave illusions to youth . 
But the rest of us know what life is worth it has nothing left to offer us . 
Six weeks later he returns homeward the same way , roused from his melancholy torpor by his recent meeting with Natasha . 
'I fancy there was an oak here that understood me , said Prince Andre to himself , looking to the left and attracted unawares by the beauty of the very tree he sought . 
The transformed old oak spread out in a dome of deep , luxuriant , blooming verdure , which swayed in a light breeze in the rays of the setting sun . 
'Yes , it is he , indeed ! cried Prince Andre , and he felt his heart suffused by the intense joy which the springtime and this new life gave him . 
'No , my life cannot end at thirty one ! . 
What is interesting to note is that this artistic freshness and joy in Nature coexisted with acute intermittent attacks of spiritual lassitude . 
Doubt and despondency , increased by the vexations and failures attending his philanthropic endeavours , at length obsessed Tolstoy to the verge of suicide . 
His letters of this period to Countess A. A. Tolstoy , his friend Fet , and others , ring with enraptured allusions to his new found joy . 
Lassitude and indecision , mysticism and altruism , all were swept aside by the impetus of triumphant love and of all sufficing conjugal happiness . 
He would have understood that at this supreme crisis , rather than in the vernal hour of love's avowal , the heart is illumined with a joy which is fated never to return . 
Wider horizons opened to his mental vision , his whole being was quickened and invigorated . 
War and Peace , Anna Karenina , all the splendid fruit of the teeming years following upon his marriage , bear witness to the stimulus which his genius had received . 
Such women rule men and are their guiding stars . 
The roots of maternal love are sunk deep in conservatism . 
Not for its practical suggestions , but for its impassioned humanity , its infectious altruism , What then must we do ? takes its rank among the world's few living books . 
Whatever negations of this dictum our own systems of charitable organizations may appear to offer , there can be no question but that in Russia it held and holds true . 
The social condition of Russia is like a tideless sea , whose sullen quiescence is broken from time to time by terrific storms which spend themselves in unavailing fury . 
Reaction follows upon every forward motion , and the advance made by each succeeding generation is barely perceptible . 
The emancipation of the serfs was only one among a number of projected reforms which engaged men's minds . 
Unhappily the reign of Progress was short . 
The bureaucratic circle hemming in the Czar took alarm , and made haste to secure their ascendancy by fresh measures of oppression . 
Many schools were closed , including that of Tolstoy , and the nascent liberty of the Press was stifled by the most rigid censorship . 
He began by reading the American propagandist's Social Problems , which arrested his attention by its main principles and by the clearness and novelty of his arguments . 
The plan of land nationalisation there explained provided Tolstoy with well thought out and logical reasons for a policy that was already more than sympathetic to him . 
Here at last was a means of ensuring economic equality for all , from the largest landowner to the humblest peasant a practical suggestion how to reduce the inequalities between rich and poor . 
Henry George's ideas and methods are easy of comprehension . 
The land was made by God for every human creature that was born into the world , and therefore to confine the ownership of land to the few is wrong . 
If a man wants a piece of land , he ought to pay the rest of the community for the enjoyment of it . 
This payment or rent should be the only tax paid into the Treasury of the State . 
should be done away with , and a rent graduated according to the site value of the land should be substituted . 
Monopolies would cease without violently and unjustly disturbing society with confiscation and redistribution . 
No one would keep land idle if he were taxed according to its value to the community , and not according to the use to which he individually wished to put it . 
A man would then readily obtain possession of land , and could turn it to account and develop it without being taxed on his own industry . 
All human beings would thus become free in their lives and in their labour . 
The single tax thus created would ultimately overthrow the present civilisation which is chiefly built up on wage slavery . 
But to inoculate the landed proprietors of Russia as a class with those theories was a task which even his genius could not hope to accomplish . 
He recognised the necessity of proceeding from the particular to the general , and that the perfecting of human institutions was impossible without a corresponding perfection in the individual . 
To this end therefore the remainder of his life was dedicated . 
This view of life he forcibly expressed in the Kreutzer Sonata , in which Woman and Music , the two magnets of his youth , were impeached as powers of evil . 
Already , in War and Peace and in Anna Karenina , his descriptions of female charms resembled catalogues of weapons against which a man must arm himself or perish . 
Woman is a stumbling block in a man's career , remarks a philosophical husband in Anna Karenina . 
It is difficult to love a woman and do any good work , and the only way to escape being reduced to inaction is to marry . 
Even in his correspondence with the Countess A. A. Tolstoy this slighting tone prevails . 
A woman has but one moral weapon instead of the whole male arsenal . 
That is love , and only with this weapon is feminine education successfully carried forward . 
Tolstoy , in fact , betrayed a touch of orientalism in his attitude towards women . 
, Miss Jane Addams , expressed with feeling her sense of his personal influence . 
The glimpse of Tolstoy has made a profound impression on me , not so much by what he said , as the life , the gentleness , the soul of him . 
I am sure you will understand my saying that I got more of Tolstoy's philosophy from our conversations than I had gotten from our books . 
As frequently happens in the lives of reformers , Tolstoy found himself more often in affinity with strangers than with his own kin . 
The estrangement of his ideals from those of his wife necessarily affected their conjugal relations , and the decline of mutual sympathy inevitably induced physical alienation . 
, pages containing matter too sacred and intimate to use . 
The time , it seems to me , is not ripe for disclosures of this nature , which so closely concern the living . 
Despite a strong rein of restraint his mental distress permeates the touching letter of farewell which he wrote some sixteen years before his death . 
He , however , shrank from acting upon it , being unable to satisfy himself that it was a right step . 
This letter has already appeared in foreign publications , but it is quoted here because And in Birukov's short Life of Tolstoy , . 
I have suffered long , dear Sophie , from the discord between my life and my beliefs . 
I cannot constrain you to alter your life or your accustomed ways . 
I have now resolved to do what I have long desired to go away . 
If I had gone away openly there would have been entreaties , discussions I should have wavered , and perhaps failed to act on my decision , whereas it must be so . 
I pray of you to forgive me if my action grieves you . 
And do you , Sophie , in particular let me go , neither seeking me out , nor bearing me ill will , nor blaming me . 
the fact that I have left you does not mean that I have cause of complaint against you . 
You have given largely of maternal love and made some heavy sacrifices . 
but during the latter part of our life together , during the last fifteen years , our ways have parted . 
Adieu , my dear Sophie , I love you . 
Notwithstanding the isolation of his inner life he remained or it might more accurately be said he became the most accessible of men . 
None appealed to him in vain at the same time , he was exceedingly chary of explicit rules of conduct . 
It might be said of Tolstoy that he became a spiritual leader in spite of himself , so averse was he from assuming authority . 
His aim was ever to teach his followers themselves to hear the inward monitory voice , and to obey it of their own accord . 
To know the meaning of Life , you must first know the meaning of Love , he would say and then see that you do what love bids you . 
His distrust of epidemic ideas extended to religious communities and congregations . 
We must not go to meet each other , but go each of us to God . 
You say it is easier to go all together ? Why yes , to dig or to mow . 
But one can only draw near to God in isolation . 
I picture the world to myself as a vast temple , in which the light falls from above in the very centre . 
To meet together all must go towards the light . 
There we shall find ourselves , gathered from many quarters , united with men we did not expect to see therein is joy . 
Many of the misunderstandings of Tolstoy's later years have also been attributed by critics , and by those who hate or belittle his ideas , to the influence of this friend . 
These attacks are very regrettable and require a word of protest . 
From tales , suited to the means and intelligence of the humblest peasant . 
The undertaking was initiated in , and continued for many years to occupy much of Tolstoy's time and energies . 
He attained a splendid fulfilment of his own theories , employing the moujik's expressive vernacular in portraying his homely wisdom , religious faith , and goodness of nature . 
Sometimes the prevailing simplicity of style and motive is tinged with a vague colouring of oriental legend , but the personal accent is marked throughout . 
No similar achievement in the beginning Mr. Chertkov has striven to spread the ideas of Tolstoy , and has won neither glory nor money from his faithful and single hearted devotion . 
He has carried on his work with a rare love and sympathy in spite of difficulties . 
modern literature has awakened so universal a sense of sympathy and admiration , perhaps because none has been so entirely a labour of love . 
Little leisure remained for the service of Art . 
It requires , however , a passing allusion . 
On the one hand , he was fond of society , and during his brief residence in St . 
Petersburg was never so engrossed in authorship as to forego the pleasure of a ball or evening entertainment . 
Little wonder , when one looks back at the brilliant young officer surrounded and petted by the great hostesses of Russia . 
On the other hand , he was no devotee at the literary altar . 
No patron of literature could claim him as his constant visitor no inner circle of men of letters monopolised his idle hours . 
These visits always gave him pleasure . 
The discussions , whether on the literary movements of the day or on the merits of Goethe or the humour of Gogol , were welcome interruptions to his ever absorbing metaphysical studies . 
In later life , also , though never in touch with the rising generation of authors , we find him corresponding with them , criticising their style and subject matter . 
Literature , as literature , had lost its charm for him . 
You are perfectly right , he writes to a friend I care only for the idea , and I pay no attention to my style . 
The idea was the important thing to Tolstoy in everything that he read or wrote . 
He even counselled the younger generation to give up poetry as a form of expression and to use prose instead . 
Poetry , he maintained , was always artificial and obscure . 
His attitude towards the art of writing remained to the end one of hostility . 
Whenever he caught himself working for art he was wont to reproach himself , and his diaries contain many recriminations against his own weakness in yielding to this besetting temptation . 
Yet to these very lapses we are indebted for this collection of fragments . 
The greater number of stories and plays contained in these volumes date from the years following upon Tolstoy's pedagogic activity . 
Long intervals , however , elapsed in most cases between the original synopsis and the final touches . 
A year previously a dramatic incident had come to his knowledge , which he elaborated in the play entitled The Man who was dead . 
It ran on the lines familiarised by Enoch Arden and similar stories , of a wife deserted by her husband and supported in his absence by a benefactor , whom she subsequently marries . 
The drama made a deep impression on the privileged few who read it , and some mention of it appeared in the newspapers . 
Shortly afterwards a young man came to see Tolstoy in private . 
Tolstoy promptly consented , and the play remained , as it now appears , in an unfinished condition . 
He had already felt doubtful whether it was a thing God would approve , Art for Art's sake having in his eyes no right to existence . 
For this reason a didactic tendency is increasingly evident in these later stories . 
Of the three plays included in these volumes , The Light that shines in Darkness has a special claim to our attention as an example of autobiography in the guise of drama . 
It is a specimen of Tolstoy's gift of seeing himself as others saw him , and viewing a question in all its bearings . 
This play was , in addition , a medium by which Tolstoy emphasised his abhorrence of military service , and probably for this reason its production is absolutely forbidden in Russia . 
A word may be said here on Tolstoy's so called Anarchy , a term admitting of grave misconstruction . 
He could not , however , suppress the sympathy which he felt with those whose resistance to oppression brought them into deadly conflict with autocracy . 
It was then that the final subjugation of the Caucasus took place , and Shamil and his devoted band made their last struggle for freedom . 
After the lapse of half a century , Tolstoy gave vent in Hadji Murat to the resentment which the military despotism of Nicholas I. had roused in his sensitive and fearless spirit . 
Courage was the dominant note in Tolstoy's character , and none have excelled him in portraying brave men . 
His own fearlessness was of the rarest , in that it was both physical and moral . 
The mettle tried and proved at Sebastopol sustained him when he had drawn on himself the bitter animosity of Holy Synod and the relentless anger of Czardom . 
In spite of his nonresistance doctrine , Tolstoy's courage was not of the passive order . 
Truth in himself and in others was what he most desired , and that to which he strove at all costs to attain . 
He was his own severest critic , weighing his own actions , analysing his own thoughts , and baring himself to the eyes of the world with unflinching candour . 
In the ancient Scripture God is love Tolstoy discerned fresh meaning , and strove with superhuman energy to bring home that meaning to the world at large . 
Religious and moral truth is everywhere and always the same . 
I have no predilection whatever for Christianity . 
Tolstoy's life work was indeed a splendid striving to free truth from falsehood , to simplify the complexities of civilisation and demonstrate their futility . 
Realists as gifted have come and gone and left but little trace . 
He has taught men to venture beyond the limits set by reason , to rise above the actual and to find the meaning of life in love . 
Idealism is one of those large abstractions which are invested by various minds with varying shades of meaning , and which find expression in an infinite number of forms . 
That birth mark is stamped on all Tolstoy's utterances , the simplest and the most metaphysical . 
But though he did not pass scathless through the purging fires , nor escape with eyes undimmed from the mystic light which flooded his soul , his ideal is not thereby invalidated . 
It was , he admitted , unattainable , but none the less a state of perfection to which we must continually aspire , undaunted by partial failure . 
For the rest , the appeals which they individually made to Humanity were as dissimilar as the currents of their lives , and equally dissimilar in effect . 
The magic flute of Rousseau's eloquence breathed fanaticism into his disciples , and a desire to mass themselves against the foes of liberty . 
Tolstoy's trumpet call sounds a deeper note . 
It pierces the heart , summoning each man to the inquisition of his own conscience , and to justify his existence by labour , that he may thereafter sleep the sleep of peace . 
The translators were chosen by an agent of the executor and not by the editor . 
LIST OF POSTHUMOUS WORKS , GIVING DATE WHEN EACH WAS FINISHED OR LENGTH OF TIME OCCUPIED IN WRITING . 
Introduction to the History of a Mother . 
The Light that shines in Darkness . 
The Man who was dead . 
There are no Guilty People . 
The Cause of it All . 
The Governor of the province had sent him an extraordinarily stupid minute , almost assuming that his dealings had been dishonest . 
Fedor Mihailovich felt embittered , and wrote at once a sharp answer . 
On his return home everything seemed to go contrary to his wishes . 
It was five minutes to five , and he expected the dinner to be served at once , but he was told it was not ready . 
He banged the door and went to his study . 
Somebody knocked at the door . 
What do you want ? It is the first of the month to day , father . 
Well ! You want your money ? It had been arranged that the father should pay his son a monthly allowance of three roubles as pocket money . 
The boy kept silent , and did not take the money his father proffered him . 
Father , please give me some more in advance . 
What ? I would not ask for it , but I have borrowed a small sum from a friend , and promised upon my word of honour to pay it off . 
My honour is dear to me , and that is why I want another three roubles . 
I don't like asking you but , please , father , give me another three roubles . 
I have told you I know , father , but just for once . 
You have an allowance of three roubles and you ought to be content . 
I had not fifty kopeks when I was your age . 
Now , all my comrades have much more . 
Petrov and Ivanitsky have fifty roubles a month . 
And I tell you that if you behave like them you will be a scoundrel . 
What is there to mind ? You never understand my position . 
I shall be disgraced if I don't pay my debt . 
It is all very well for you to speak as you do . 
Be off , you silly boy ! Be off ! Fedor Mihailovich jumped from his seat and pounced upon his son . 
Be off , I say ! he shouted . 
You deserve a good thrashing , all you boys ! His son was at once frightened and embittered . 
The bitterness was even greater than the fright . 
With his head bent down he hastily turned to the door . 
Fedor Mihailovich did not intend to strike him , but he was glad to vent his wrath , and went on shouting and abusing the boy till he had closed the door . 
When the maid came in to announce that dinner was ready , Fedor Mihailovich rose . 
At last ! he said . 
I don't feel hungry any longer . 
He went to the dining room with a sullen face . 
At table his wife made some remark , but he gave her such a short and angry answer that she abstained from further speech . 
The son also did not lift his eyes from his plate , and was silent all the time . 
The trio finished their dinner in silence , rose from the table and separated , without a word . 
After dinner the boy went to his room , took the coupon and the change out of his pocket , and threw the money on the table . 
After that he took off his uniform and put on a jacket . 
He sat down to work , and began to study Latin grammar out of a dog's eared book . 
All the abuse showered upon him , and worst of all his father's angry face , were as fresh in his memory as if he saw and heard them all over again . 
Silly boy ! You ought to get a good thrashing ! And the more he thought of it the angrier be grew . 
He remembered also how his father said I see what a scoundrel you will turn out . 
You are sure to become a cheat , if you go on like that . 
Was that so very wicked of me ? Another father would have been sorry for me would have asked how it all happened whereas he just called me names . 
He never thinks of anything but himself . 
When it is he who has not got something he wants that is a different matter ! Then all the house is upset by his shouts . 
And I I am a scoundrel , a cheat , he says . 
No , I don't love him , although he is my father . 
It may be wrong , but I hate him . 
There was a knock at the door . 
The servant brought a letter a message from his friend . 
They want an answer , said the servant . 
The letter ran as follows I ask you now for the third time to pay me back the six roubles you have borrowed you are trying to avoid me . 
That is not the way an honest man ought to behave . 
Will you please send the amount by my messenger ? I am myself in a frightful fix . 
Can you not get the money somewhere ? Yours , according to whether you send the money or not , with scorn , or love , Grouchetsky . 
There we have it ! Such a pig ! Could he not wait a while ? I will have another try . 
Mitia went to his mother . 
This was his last hope . 
His mother was very kind , and hardly ever refused him anything . 
She got angry with Mitia for rushing so noisily into the nursery , and refused him almost without listening to what he had to say . 
Mitia muttered something to himself and turned to go . 
The mother felt sorry for him . 
Wait , Mitia , she said I have not got the money you want now , but I will get it for you to morrow . 
But Mitia was still raging against his father . 
What is the use of having it to morrow , when I want it to day ? I am going to see a friend . 
That is all I have got to say . 
He went out , banging the door . 
Nothing else is left to me . 
He will tell me how to pawn my watch , he thought , touching his watch in his pocket . 
Mitia went to his room , took the coupon and the watch from the drawer , put on his coat , and went to Mahin . 
II MAHIN was his schoolfellow , his senior , a grown up young man with a moustache . 
He gambled , had a large feminine acquaintance , and always had ready cash . 
He lived with his aunt . 
Mitia quite realised that Mahin was not a respectable fellow , but when he was in his company he could not help doing what he wished . 
Mahin was in when Mitia called , and was just preparing to go to the theatre . 
His untidy room smelt of scented soap and eau de Cologne . 
That's awful , old chap , said Mahin , when Mitia telling him about his troubles , showed the coupon and the fifty kopeks , and added that he wanted nine roubles more . 
We might , of course , go and pawn your watch . 
But we might do something far better . 
And Mahin winked an eye . 
What's that ? Something quite simple . 
Mahin took the coupon in his hand . 
But do such coupons exist ? Why , certainly the thousand roubles notes have coupons of . 
I have cashed one in the same way . 
You don't say so ? Well , yes or no ? asked Mahin , taking the pen and smoothing the coupon with the fingers of his left hand . 
Nonsense ! Nonsense , indeed , thought Mitia , and again his father's hard words came back to his memory . 
Scoundrel ! As you called me that , I might as well be it . 
He looked into Mahin's face . 
Mahin looked at him , smiling with perfect ease . 
Mahin carefully wrote the unit in front of . 
Now let us go to the shop across the road they sell photographers' materials there . 
Is she not sweet ? Eh ? Yes , yes . 
Mahin took his coat , and they left the house . 
A plain woman , with a kind face , came through the inner door and asked from behind the counter what they required . 
A nice frame , if you please , madam . 
At what price ? asked the woman she wore mittens on her swollen fingers with which she rapidly handled picture frames of different shapes . 
These are fifty kopeks each and these are a little more expensive . 
There is rather a pretty one , of quite a new style one rouble and twenty kopeks . 
All right , I will have this . 
But could not you make it cheaper ? Let us say one rouble . 
We don't bargain in our shop , said the shopkeeper with a dignified air . 
Well , I will take it , said Mahin , and put the coupon on the counter . 
Wrap up the frame and give me change . 
We must be off to the theatre , and it is getting late . 
You have plenty of time , said the shopkeeper , examining the coupon very closely because of her shortsightedness . 
It will look lovely in that frame , don't you think so ? said Mahin , turning to Mitia . 
Have you no small change ? asked the shop woman . 
I am sorry , I have not . 
My father gave me that , so I have to cash it . 
But surely you have one rouble twenty ? I have only fifty kopeks in cash . 
You had better give it to me back . 
We will cash it somewhere else . 
How much have I to pay you back ? Eleven and something . 
Please make a parcel of the frame , said Mahin , taking the money in a leisurely fashion . 
She made a parcel and tied it with a string . 
Mitia only breathed freely when the door bell rang behind them , and they were again in the street . 
There are ten roubles for you , and let me have the rest . 
I will give it back to you . 
Mahin went off to the theatre , and Mitia called on Grouchetsky to repay the money he had borrowed from him . 
IV AN hour after the boys were gone Eugene Mihailovich , the owner of the shop , came home , and began to count his receipts . 
Oh , you clumsy fool ! Idiot that you are ! he shouted , addressing his wife , after having seen the coupon and noticed the forgery . 
I really don't know how they contrived to cheat me , she went on . 
They were pupils of the school , in uniform . 
One of them was quite a handsome boy , and looked so comme il faut . 
A comme il faut fool , that is what you are ! The husband went on scolding her , while he counted the cash . 
When I accept coupons , I see what is written on them . 
And you probably looked only at the boys' pretty faces . 
You had better behave yourself in your old age . 
His wife could not stand this , and got into a fury . 
That is just like you men ! Blaming everybody around you . 
But when it is you who lose fifty four roubles at cards that is of no consequence in your eyes . 
That is a different matter I don't want to talk to you , said his wife , and went to her room . 
Then she went on thinking of the child she had lost , and how indifferent her husband had been to their loss . 
She hated him so intensely at that moment that she wished for his death . 
Her wish frightened her , however , and she hurriedly began to dress and left the house . 
When her husband came from the shop to the inner rooms of their flat she was gone . 
V THE guests at the party had tea and cakes offered to them , and sat down after that to play whist at a number of card tables . 
But it was Eugene Mihailovich's wife who was the winner all the time . 
The best cards were continually in her hands . 
At her side she had a plate with grapes and a pear and was in the best of spirits . 
And Eugene Mihailovich ? Why is he so late ? asked the hostess , who played at another table . 
Probably busy settling accounts , said Eugene Mihailovich's wife . 
He has to pay off the tradesmen , to get in firewood . 
The quarrel she had with her husband revived in her memory she frowned , and her hands , from which she had not taken off the mittens , shook with fury against him . 
Oh , there he is . 
We have just been speaking of you , said the hostess to Eugene Mihailovich , who came in at that very moment . 
Why are you so late ? I was busy , answered Eugene Mihailovich , in a gay voice , rubbing his hands . 
And to his wife's surprise he came to her side and said , You know , I managed to get rid of the coupon . 
No ! You don't say so ! Yes , I used it to pay for a cartload of firewood I bought from a peasant . 
And Eugene Mihailovich related with great indignation to the company present his wife adding more details to his narrative how his wife had been cheated by two unscrupulous schoolboys . 
VI EUGENE MIHAILOVICH had actually used the coupon to buy firewood from the peasant Ivan Mironov , who had thought of setting up in business on the seventeen roubles he possessed . 
That unfortunate day Ivan Mironov drove out very early with half a cartload , which he soon sold . 
He loaded up again with another cartload which he hoped to sell , but he looked in vain for a customer no one would buy it . 
He got hungry , and felt cold in his ragged woollen coat . 
It was nearly below zero when evening came on his horse which he had treated without mercy , hoping soon to sell it to the knacker's yard , refused to move a step . 
So Ivan Mironov was quite ready to sell his firewood at a loss when he met Eugene Mihailovich , who was on his way home from the tobacconist . 
Buy my cartload of firewood , sir . 
I will give it to you cheap . 
My poor horse is tired , and can't go any farther . 
Where do you come from ? From the country , sir . 
This firewood is from our place . 
Good dry wood , I can assure you . 
Good wood indeed ! I know your tricks . 
I'm giving it to you cheap , just to please you , sir . 
Besides , I am glad it is not a long way to your house , he added . 
Eugene Mihailovich did not bargain very much . 
He did not mind paying a little more , because he was delighted to think he could make use of the coupon and get rid of it . 
The yard porter was out . 
Ivan Mironov hesitated at first to accept the coupon , but Eugene Mihailovich insisted , and as he looked a very important person the peasant at last agreed . 
Carefully folding the coupon , he put it in the purse . 
Arriving there , Ivan Mironov called for vodka and tea for which he paid eight kopeks . 
Comfortable and warm after the tea , he chatted in the very best of spirits with a yard porter who was sitting at his table . 
Soon he grew communicative and told his companion all about the conditions of his life . 
He also said he lived in lodgings and intended going to the horse fair the next day to look for a good horse , and , may be , to buy one . 
He went on to state that he had now nearly twenty five roubles only one rouble short and that half of it was a coupon . 
He took the coupon out of his purse to show to his new friend . 
Ivan Mironov gave the coupon to the waiter and asked for change . 
Your money is no good , he said , showing the coupon , but apparently determined not to give it back . 
The coupon must be all right . 
I got it from a gentleman . 
It is bad , I tell you . 
Forged ? Give it back to me . 
You fellows have got to be punished for such tricks . 
Of course , you did it yourself you and some of your rascally friends . 
What right have you Sidor ! Call a policeman , said the barman to the waiter . 
Ivan Mironov was rather drunk , and in that condition was hard to manage . 
He seized the manager by the collar and began to shout . 
Give me back my money , I say . 
I will go to the gentleman who gave it to me . 
I know where he lives . 
The waiter took hold of Ivan Mironov at that moment the policeman arrived . 
Looking very important , he inquired what had happened , and unhesitatingly gave his orders Take him to the police station . 
As to the coupon , the policeman put it in his pocket Ivan Mironov , together with his horse , was brought to the nearest station . 
VII IVAN MIRONOV had to spend the night in the police station , in the company of drunkards and thieves . 
It was noon of the next day when he was summoned to the police officer put through a close examination , and sent in the care of a policeman to Eugene Mihailovich's shop . 
Ivan Mironov remembered the street and the house . 
The policeman asked for the shopkeeper , showed him the coupon and confronted him with Ivan Mironov , who declared that he had received the coupon in that very place . 
Eugene Mihailovich at once assumed a very severe and astonished air . 
You are mad , my good fellow , he said . 
I have never seen this man before in my life , he added , addressing the policeman . 
It is a sin , sir , said Ivan Mironov . 
Think of the hour when you will die . 
Why , you must be dreaming I You have sold your firewood to some one else , said Eugene Mihailovich . 
I will go and ask my wife whether she bought any firewood yesterday . 
Eugene Mihailovich left them and immediately called the yard porter Vassily , a strong , handsome , quick , cheerful , well dressed man . 
A peasant has come , he said to Vassily , who has declared to the police that I gave him a forged coupon . 
He is a fool and talks nonsense , but you , are a clever man . 
Mind you say that we always get the firewood from the stores . 
And , by the way , I've been thinking some time of giving you money to buy a new jacket , added Eugene Mihailovich , and gave the man five roubles . 
Vassily looking with pleasure first at the five rouble note , then at Eugene Mihailovich's face , shook his head and smiled . 
I know , those peasant folks have no brains . 
I know what I have to say . 
The policeman brought Ivan Mironov back to the police station , and he was charged with forging the coupon . 
Of these seven roubles he spent three in the public house and came home to his wife dead drunk , with a bruised and swollen face . 
His wife was expecting a child , and felt very ill . 
She began to scold her husband he pushed her away , and she struck him . 
Without answering a word he lay down on the plank and began to weep bitterly . 
Not till the next day did he tell his wife what had actually happened . 
She believed him at once , and thoroughly cursed the dastardly rich man who had cheated Ivan . 
Both parties appeared in the court when the case was tried , and the yard porter Vassily was summoned as witness . 
They repeated in the court all they had said before to the police officials . 
Ivan Mironov again called to his aid the name of the Divinity , and reminded the shopkeeper of the hour of death . 
The yard porter Vassily had received another ten roubles from his master , and , quite unperturbed , asserted with a smile that he did not know anything about Ivan Mironov . 
By the holy Cross and the Gospel , he swore that he spoke the whole truth . 
The case was decided against Ivan Mironov , who was sentenced to pay five roubles for expenses . 
This sum Eugene Mihailovich generously paid for him . 
I offer my humble thanks , said Ivan Mironov and , shaking his head , left the court with a heavy sigh . 
The whole thing seemed to have ended well for Eugene Mihailovich and the yard porter Vassily . 
Something had happened which was not noticed by any one , but which was much more important than all that had been exposed to view . 
Vassily had left his village and settled in town over two years ago . 
As time went on he sent less and less money to his father , and he did not ask his wife , who remained at home , to join him . 
He was in no need of her he could in town have as many wives as he wished , and much better ones too than that clumsy , village bred woman . 
Vassily , with each recurring year , became more and more familiar with the ways of the town people , forgetting the conventions of a country life . 
There everything was so vulgar , so grey , so poor and untidy . 
Here , in town , all seemed on the contrary so refined , nice , clean , and rich so orderly too . 
He read books written by clever writers , and went to the performances in the Peoples' Palace . 
In the country , people would not see such wonders even in dreams . 
And they are the better for it . 
Previous to the incident of the forged coupon , Vassily could not actually believe that rich people lived without any moral law . 
This he now made his rule in life . 
He accordingly got as much profit as he could out of purchasing goods for lodgers . 
But this did not pay all his expenses . 
Then he took to stealing , whenever chance offered money and all sorts of valuables . 
One day he stole a purse full of money from Eugene Mihailovich , but was found out . 
Eugene Mihailovich did not hand him over to the police , but dismissed him on the spot . 
Vassily had no wish whatever to return home to his village , and remained in Moscow with his sweetheart , looking out for a new job . 
He got one as yard porter at a grocer's , but with only small wages . 
The next day after he had entered that service he was caught stealing bags . 
The grocer did not call in the police , but gave him a good thrashing and turned him out . 
After that he could not find work . 
The money he had left was soon gone he had to sell all his clothes and went about nearly in rags . 
But notwithstanding , he kept up his high spirits , and when the spring came he started to walk home . 
Peter Nikolaevich had been an official in the Customs , and had gained eighteen thousand roubles during his service . 
Peter Nikolaevich had married at an earlier period , while still an official in the Customs . 
His wife , who belonged to an old noble family , was an orphan , and was left without money . 
She was a tall , stoutish , good looking woman . 
Peter Nikolaevich had considerable practical talents and a strong will . 
In the tool house carts , ploughs , harrows , stood in perfect order , the harness was well cleaned and oiled . 
The horses were not very big , but all home bred , grey , well fed , strong and devoid of blemish . 
The threshing machine worked in a roofed barn , the forage was kept in a separate shed , and a paved drain was made from the stables . 
In the orchard the fruit trees were well whitewashed and propped on poles to enable them to grow straight . 
Everything was looked after solid , clean , and in perfect order . 
Treat them well , and they will be fair to you , he used to say . 
Walking cautiously on the melting snow for the time of the year was February Peter Nikolaevich passed the stables , and made his way to the cottage where his workmen were lodged . 
It was still dark , the darker because of the dense fog but the windows of the cottage were lighted . 
The men had already got up . 
His intention was to urge them to begin work . 
He had arranged that they should drive out to the forest and bring back the last supply of firewood he needed before spring . 
What is that ? he thought , seeing the door of the stable wide open . 
Hallo , who is there ? No answer . 
Peter Nikolaevich stepped into the stable . 
Peter Nikolaevich stretched out his hand in their direction one box was empty . 
He put out his foot the horse might have been lying down . 
But his foot did not touch anything solid . 
Where could they have taken the horse ? he thought . 
They certainly had not harnessed it all the sledges stood still outside . 
Peter Nikolaevich went out of the stable . 
Stepan , come here ! he called . 
Stepan was the head of the workmen's gang . 
He was just stepping out of the cottage . 
Here I am ! he said , in a cheerful voice . 
Oh , is that you , Peter Nikolaevich ? Our men are coming . 
Why is the stable door open ? Is it ? I don't know anything about it . 
I say , Proshka , bring the lantern ! Proshka came with the lantern . 
They all went to the stable , and Stepan knew at once what had happened . 
Thieves have been here , Peter Nikolaevich , he said . 
No you don't say so ! Yes , the brigands ! I don't see 'Mashka . 
Three horses had been stolen ! Peter Nikolaevich did not utter a word at first . 
He only frowned and took deep breaths . 
Oh , he said after a while . 
If only I could lay hands on them ! Who was on guard ? Peter . 
Peter Nikolaevich called in the police , and making an appeal to all the authorities , sent his men to track the thieves . 
But the horses were not to be found . 
Wicked people , said Peter Nikolaevich . 
How could they ! I was always so kind to them . 
Now , wait ! Brigands ! Brigands the whole lot of them . 
I will no longer be kind . 
The man who conducted the whole affair was Ivan Mironov . 
He had been employed on the estate , and knew all the whereabouts of Peter Nikolaevich . 
He wanted to get back the money he had lost , and stole the horses for that reason . 
In his drunken state Ivan Mironov was continually thinking , not only of the man who had wronged him , but of all the rich people who live on robbing the poor . 
One day he had a drink with some peasants from the suburbs of Podolsk , and was walking home together with them . 
On the way the peasants , who were completely drunk , told him they had stolen a horse from a peasant's cottage . 
Ivan Mironov got angry , and began to abuse the horse thieves . 
What a shame ! he said . 
A horse is like a brother to the peasant . 
And you robbed him of it ? It is a great sin , I tell you . 
If you go in for stealing horses , steal them from the landowners . 
They are worse than dogs , and deserve anything . 
The talk went on , and the peasants from Podolsk told him that it required a great deal of cunning to steal a horse on an estate . 
You must know all the ins and outs of the place , and must have somebody on the spot to help you . 
He remembered well the grey horses which he used to drive at Sventizky's . 
Ivan Mironov called on Peter Nikolaevich pretending to ask for employment , but really in order to get the information he wanted . 
He took precautions to make sure that the watchman was absent , and that the horses were standing in their boxes in the stable . 
He brought the thieves to the place , and helped them to carry off the three horses . 
They divided their gains , and Ivan Mironov returned to his wife with five roubles in his pocket . 
He had nothing to do at home , having no horse to work in the field , and therefore continued to steal horses in company with professional horse thieves and gipsies . 
XI PETER NIKOLAEVICH SVENTIZKY did his best to discover who had stolen his horses . 
He knew somebody on the estate must have helped the thieves , and began to suspect all his staff . 
He inquired who had slept out that night , and the gang of the working men told him Proshka had not been in the whole night . 
They all sympathised with him in his trouble and tried to help him . 
You always used to take the side of the peasants , said the district constable , and there you are ! I was right in saying they are worse than wild beasts . 
Flogging is the only way to keep them in order . 
Well , you say it is all Proshka's doings . 
Is it not he who was your coachman sometimes ? Yes , that is he . 
Will you kindly call him ? Proshka was summoned before the constable , who began to examine him . 
Where were you that night ? Proshka pushed back his hair , and his eyes sparkled . 
How so ? All the men say you were not in . 
Just as you please , your honour . 
My pleasure has nothing to do with the matter . 
Tell me where you were that night . 
Policeman , bring him to the police station . 
The reason why Proshka did not say where he had been that night was that he had spent it with his sweetheart , Parasha , and had promised not to give her away . 
No proofs were discovered against him , and he was soon discharged . 
But Peter Nikolaevich was convinced that Prokofy had been at the bottom of the whole affair , and began to hate him . 
One day Proshka bought as usual at the merchant's two measures of oats . 
One and a half he gave to the horses , and half a measure he gave back to the merchant the money for it he spent in drink . 
Peter Nikolaevich found it out , and charged Prokofy with cheating . 
The judge sentenced the man to three months' imprisonment . 
Prokofy had a rather proud nature , and thought himself superior to others . 
Prison was a great humiliation for him . 
He came out of it very depressed there was nothing more to be proud of in life . 
And more than that , he felt extremely bitter , not only against Peter Nikolaevich , but against the whole world . 
All that Peter Nikolaevich discovered about his grey horses was the hide of one of them , Beauty , which had been found somewhere on the estate . 
The fact that the thieves had got off scot free irritated Peter Nikolaevich still more . 
He was unable now to speak of the peasants or to look at them without anger . 
And whenever he could he tried to oppress them . 
And most of all she was furious against the two boys who had so skilfully cheated her . 
From the day she had accepted the forged coupon as payment , she looked closely at all the schoolboys who came in her way in the streets . 
One day she met Mahin , but did not recognise him , for on seeing her he made a face which quite changed his features . 
But when , a fortnight after the incident with the coupon , she met Mitia Smokovnikov face to face , she knew him at once . 
She let him pass her , then turned back and followed him , and arriving at his house she made inquiries as to whose son he was . 
The next day she went to the school and met the divinity instructor , the priest Michael Vedensky , in the hall . 
He asked her what she wanted . 
She answered that she wished to see the head of the school . 
He is not quite well , said the priest . 
Can I be of any use to you , or give him your message ? Maria Vassilievna thought that she might as well tell the priest what was the matter . 
Michael Vedensky was a widower , and a very ambitious man . 
A year ago he had met Mitia Smokovnikov's father in society , and had had a discussion with him on religion . 
Smokovnikov had beaten him decisively on all points indeed , he had made him appear quite ridiculous . 
When Maria Vassilievna told him what young Smokovnikov had done to her , Vedensky could not help feeling an inner satisfaction . 
He saw in the boy's conduct a proof of the utter wickedness of those who are not guided by the rules of the Church . 
He decided to take advantage of this great opportunity of warning unbelievers of the perils that threatened them . 
At all events , he wanted to persuade himself that this was the only motive that guided him in the course he had resolved to take . 
But at the bottom of his heart he was only anxious to get his revenge on the proud atheist . 
Yes , it is very sad indeed , said Father Michael , toying with the cross he was wearing over his priestly robes , and passing his hands over its polished sides . 
I am very glad you have given me your confidence . 
As a servant of the Church I shall admonish the young man of course with the utmost kindness . 
He firmly believed the boy's soul to be the only object of his pious care . 
It was a very wicked thing to do , he said but to deny the crime is still worse . 
If it is true that the sin has been committed by one of you , let the guilty one confess . 
In saying this , Father Michael looked sharply at Mitia Smokovnikov . 
All the boys , following his glance , turned also to Mitia , who blushed , and felt extremely ill at ease , with large beads of perspiration on his face . 
Finally , he burst into tears , and ran out of the classroom . 
She further implored Mitia to hide the truth from everybody , and in any case to withhold it from his father . 
Father Michael was sent for , and immediately fell into a hot dispute with Smokovnikov . 
You forget what is due to my cloth . 
Your cloth is of no consequence to me . 
Your perversity in matters of religion is known to everybody in the town ! replied Father Michael and he was so transported with anger that his long thin head quivered . 
Gentlemen ! Father Michael ! exclaimed the director of the school , trying to appease their wrath . 
But they did not listen to him . 
It is my duty as a priest to look after the religious and moral education of our pupils . 
Oh , cease your pretence to be religious ! Oh , stop all this humbug of religion ! As if I did not know that you believe neither in God nor Devil . 
Seeing not only young minds , but also the elder generation , contaminated by atheistic tendencies , Father Michael became more and more convinced of the necessity of fighting those tendencies . 
His faith , acknowledged as such by all the world around him , became Father Michael's very best weapon with which to fight those who denied it . 
One of them was already a bishop , another an archimandrite and on the way to become a bishop . 
XIII MEANWHILE the yard porter Vassily was marching on the open road down to the south . 
He walked in daytime , and when night came some policeman would get him shelter in a peasant's cottage . 
He was given bread everywhere , and sometimes he was asked to sit down to the evening meal . 
He knew no end of songs , and had a fine voice . 
The rest of the time he had nothing to do , but to lie on his back and get up for his meals in the kitchen . 
He had only one shirt left , one of pink cotton , and that was in holes . 
But he was strongly built and enjoyed excellent health . 
At nights Vassily never slept . 
He whistled or shouted from time to time to keep off thieves , and his piercing , cat like eyes saw clearly in the darkness . 
One night a company of young lads from the village made their way stealthily to the orchard to shake down apples from the trees . 
Vassily , coming noiselessly from behind , attacked them they tried to escape , but he took one of them prisoner to his master . 
He liked this new place very much . 
Sometimes the young people from the master's house came to the shed , and Vassily offered them the choicest apples , juicy and red . 
He thought and thought how to get hold of a large sum of money . 
He remembered his former ways of making small profits whenever he could , and came to the conclusion that that was altogether wrong . 
Occasional stealing is of no use , he thought . 
He must arrange a well prepared plan , and after getting all the information he wanted , carry out his purpose so as to avoid detection . 
Vassily put on his new jacket , and a new hat both were presents from his master's son but did not make his way homewards . 
He hated the very thought of the vulgar peasants' life . 
He went back to Moscow in company of some drunken soldiers , who had been watchmen in the orchard together with him . 
He knew the place well , and knew where the money was locked up . 
So he bade the soldiers , who helped him , keep watch outside , and forcing the courtyard door entered the shop and took all the money he could lay his hands on . 
All this was done very cleverly , and no trace was left of the burglary . 
The money Vassily had found in the shop amounted to roubles . 
He gave a hundred roubles to his assistants , and with the rest left for another town where he gave way to dissipation in company of friends of both sexes . 
The police traced his movements , and when at last he was arrested and put into prison he had hardly anything left out of the money which he had stolen . 
XIV IVAN MIRONOV had become a very clever , fearless and successful horse thief . 
Whenever suspicion fell on him , he managed to clear his character . 
Once during the night he stole horses from the pasture ground in the village Kolotovka . 
He generally preferred to steal horses from landowners or tradespeople . 
But this was a harder job , and when he had no chance of success he did not mind robbing peasants too . 
In Kolotovka he drove off the horses without making sure whose they were . 
He did not go himself to the spot , but sent a young and clever fellow , Gerassim , to do the stealing for him . 
The peasants only got to know of the theft at dawn they rushed in all directions to hunt for the robbers . 
The horses , meanwhile , were hidden in a ravine in the forest lands belonging to the state . 
Ivan Mironov intended to leave them there till the following night , and then to transport them with the utmost haste a hundred miles away to a man he knew . 
But by ill luck , he chanced on the keeper of the forest , a retired soldier . 
I say ! Have you been looking for mushrooms ? asked the soldier . 
There were none to be found , answered Ivan Mironov , showing the basket of lime bark he had taken with him in case he might want it . 
Yes , mushrooms are scarce this summer , said the soldier . 
He stood still for a moment , pondered , and then went his way . 
He clearly saw that something was wrong . 
Ivan Mironov had no business whatever to take early morning walks in that forest . 
The soldier went back after a while and looked round . 
Suddenly he heard the snorting of horses in the ravine . 
He made his way cautiously to the place whence the sounds came . 
The grass in the ravine was trodden down , and the marks of horses' hoofs were clearly to be seen . 
A little further he saw Gerassim , who was sitting and eating his meal , and the horses tied to a tree . 
The soldier ran to the village and brought back the bailiff , a police officer , and two witnesses . 
They surrounded on three sides the spot where Gerassim was sitting and seized the man . 
The peasants left the horses and Gerassim in the ravine , and hiding behind the trees prepared to lie in ambush for Ivan Mironov . 
When it grew dark , they heard a whistle . 
Gerassim answered it with a similar sound . 
The moment Ivan Mironov descended the slope , the peasants surrounded him and brought him back to the village . 
The next morning a crowd assembled in front of the bailiff's cottage . 
Ivan Mironov was brought out and subjected to a close examination . 
Stepan Pelageushkine , a tall , stooping man with long arms , an aquiline nose , and a gloomy face was the first to put questions to him . 
Stepan had terminated his military service , and was of a solitary turn of mind . 
When he had separated from his father , and started his own home , he had his first experience of losing a horse . 
After that he worked for two years in the mines , and made money enough to buy two horses . 
These two had been stolen by Ivan Mironov . 
Tell me where my horses are ! shouted Stepan , pale with fury , alternately looking at the ground and at Ivan Mironov's face . 
Ivan Mironov denied his guilt . 
Then Stepan aimed so violent a blow at his face that he smashed his nose and the blood spurted out . 
Tell the truth , I say , or I'll kill you ! Ivan Mironov kept silent , trying to avoid the blows by stooping . 
Stepan hit him twice more with his long arm . 
Ivan Mironov remained silent , turning his head backwards and forwards . 
Beat him , all of you ! cried the bailiff , and the whole crowd rushed upon Ivan Mironov . 
XV IVAN MIRONOV'S murderers were brought to trial , Stepan Pelageushkine among them . 
He had a heavier charge to answer than the others , all the witnesses having stated that it was he who had smashed Ivan Mironov's head with a stone . 
Stepan concealed nothing when in court . 
He contented himself with explaining that , having been robbed of his two last horses , he had informed the police . 
Now it was comparatively easy at that time to trace the horses with the help of professional thieves among the gipsies . 
But the police officer would not even permit him , and no search had been ordered . 
Nothing else could be done with such a man . 
He has ruined us all . 
But why did not the others attack him . 
It was you alone who broke his head open . 
We all fell upon him . 
The village agreed to kill him . 
I only gave the final stroke . 
Stepan actually did not see anything particularly revolting in this murder . 
During his military service he had been ordered on one occasion to shoot a soldier , and , now with regard to Ivan Mironov , he saw nothing loathsome in it . 
A man shot is a dead man that's all . 
It was him to day , it might be me to morrow , he thought . 
Stepan was only sentenced to one year's imprisonment , which was a mild punishment for what he had done . 
His peasant's dress was taken away from him and put in the prison stores , and he had a prison suit and felt boots given to him instead . 
All he heard from the deported convicts , and those sentenced to hard labour , with whom he had made friends in prisons , confirmed him in his views . 
He had visits from his wife while in prison . 
Her life without him was miserable enough , when , to make it worse , her cottage was destroyed by fire . 
She was completely ruined , and had to take to begging with her children . 
His wife's misery embittered Stepan still more . 
In the course of that year he received the news that his wife was dead , and that he had no longer a home . 
When Stepan had finished his time in prison , he was taken to the prison stores , and his own dress was taken down from the shelf and handed to him . 
Where am I to go now ? he asked the prison officer , putting on his old dress . 
I shall have to go on the road . 
Robbery will not be a pleasant occupation . 
In that case you will soon be back here . 
I am not so sure of that . 
And Stepan left the prison . 
Nevertheless he took the road to his own place . 
He had nowhere else to turn . 
On his way he stopped for a night's rest in an inn that had a public bar attached to it . 
The inn was kept by a fat man from the town , Vladimir , and he knew Stepan . 
He knew that Stepan had been put into prison through ill luck , and did not mind giving him shelter for the night . 
He was a rich man , and had persuaded his neighbour's wife to leave her husband and come to live with him . 
She lived in his house as his wife , and helped him in his business as well . 
Stepan knew all about the innkeeper's affairs how he had wronged the peasant , and how the woman who was living with him had left her husband . 
He saw her now sitting at the table in a rich dress , and looking very hot as she drank her tea . 
With great condescension she asked Stepan to have tea with her . 
No other travellers were stopping in the inn that night . 
Stepan was given a place in the kitchen where he might sleep . 
Matrena that was the woman's name cleared the table and went to her room . 
He could not help thinking of his host's fat paunch protruding under the belt of his shirt , which had lost its colour from having been washed ever so many times . 
Would not it be a good thing to make a good clean incision in that paunch . 
And that woman , too , he thought . 
Kill I must , and it must be both ! He heard the cock crow for the second time . 
I must do it at once , or dawn will be here . 
He had seen in the evening before he went to bed a knife and an axe . 
He crawled down from the stove , took the knife and axe , and went out of the kitchen door . 
At that very moment he heard the lock of the entrance door open . 
The innkeeper was going out of the house to the courtyard . 
It all turned out contrary to what Stepan desired . 
He had no opportunity of using the knife he just swung the axe and split the innkeeper's head in two . 
The man tumbled down on the threshold of the door , then on the ground . 
Stepan stepped into the bedroom . 
Matrena jumped out of bed , and remained standing by its side . 
With the same axe Stepan killed her also . 
Then he lighted the candle , took the money out of the desk , and left the house . 
She had a pension of two hundred and fifty roubles a year , and the family lived on this . 
She bore it all patiently , and as is also always the case , the more work she had to face , the quicker she managed to get through it . 
She helped the poor , sacrificing her own wants she gave them her clothes , and was a ministering angel to the sick . 
Once the lame , crippled village tailor was working in Maria Semenovna's house . 
He had to mend her old father's coat , and to mend and repair Maria Semenovna's fur jacket for her to wear in winter when she went to market . 
Having worked a week at Maria Semenovna's , he wondered greatly about her life . 
One day she came to the kitchen , where he was sitting with his work , to wash a towel , and began to ask him how he was getting on . 
He told her of the wrong he had suffered from his brother , and how he now lived on his own allotment of land , separated from that of his brother . 
I thought I should have been better off that way , he said . 
But I am now just as poor as before . 
It is much better never to change , but to take life as it comes , said Maria Semenovna . 
Take life as it comes , she repeated . 
Why , I wonder at you , Maria Semenovna , said the lame tailor . 
You alone do the work , and you are so good to everybody . 
But they don't repay you in kind , I see . 
Maria Semenovna did not utter a word in answer . 
I dare say you have found out in books that we are rewarded in heaven for the good we do here . 
But we must try to do the best we can . 
Is it said so in books ? In books as well , she said , and read to him the Sermon on the Mount . 
The tailor was much impressed . 
XVII PETER NIKOLAEVICH SVENTIZKY'S views of the peasantry had now changed for the worse , and the peasants had an equally bad opinion of him . 
In the course of a single year they felled twenty seven oaks in his forest , and burnt a barn which had not been insured . 
Peter Nikolaevich came to the conclusion that there was no getting on with the people around him . 
He was glad of the opportunity of giving them a good lesson , and set seriously to work at once . 
The spring came and the peasants , just as they had done in previous years , drove their cattle on to the meadows belonging to the landowner . 
Peter Nikolaevich called some of the men working on the estate and ordered them to drive the cattle into his yard . 
The peasants were working in the fields , and , disregarding the screaming of the women , Peter Nikolaevich's men succeeded in driving in the cattle . 
When they came home the peasants went in a crowd to the cattle yard on the estate , and asked for their cattle . 
Peter Nikolaevich came out to talk to them with a gun slung on his shoulder he had just returned from a ride of inspection . 
He told them that he would not let them have their cattle unless they paid a fine of fifty kopeks for each of the horned cattle , and twenty kopeks for each sheep . 
Give back our cattle , or you will regret it , said an old man coming up to Peter Nikolaevich . 
How shall I regret it ? cried Peter Nikolaevich , turning pale , and coming close to the old man . 
Give them back , you villain , and don't provoke us . 
What ? cried Peter Nikolaevich , and slapped the old man in the face . 
You dare to strike me ? Come along , you fellows , let us take back our cattle by force . 
The crowd drew close to him . 
Peter Nikolaevich tried to push his way , through them , but the peasants resisted him . 
His gun , accidentally discharged in the melee , killed one of the peasants . 
Peter Nikolaevich was trodden down , and five minutes later his mutilated body was dragged into the ravine . 
The murderers were tried by martial law , and two of them sentenced to the gallows . 
Not one acre was given under twelve roubles . 
They got a very profitable return , and the five acres which were left to each of their company practically cost them nothing . 
One of the five peasants died , and the lame tailor received an offer to take his place . 
Why so ? We are no heathens , I should think , he said . 
It is all very well for the masters to be unfair , but we are true Christians . 
We must do as God bids . 
Such is the law of Christ . 
Where have you got that law from ? It is in the Book , in the Gospels . 
just come to me on Sunday . 
I will read you a few passages , and we will have a talk afterwards . 
They did not all come to him on Sunday , but three came , and he began reading to them . 
He read five chapters of St . 
Matthew's Gospel , and they talked . 
One man only , Ivan Chouev , accepted the lesson and carried it out completely , following the rule of Christ in everything from that day . 
His family did the same . 
Out of the arable land he took only what was his due , and refused to take more . 
They also ceased to go to church , and took their ikons to the village priest , saying they did not want them any more . 
The priest was frightened , and reported what had occurred to the bishop . 
The bishop was at a loss what to do . 
At last he resolved to send the archimandrite Missael to the village , the one who had formerly been Mitia Smokovnikov's teacher of religion . 
XIX ASKING Father Missael on his arrival to take a seat , the bishop told him what had happened in his diocese . 
It all comes from weakness of spirit and from ignorance . 
You are a learned man , and I rely on you . 
Go to the village , call the parishioners together , and convince them of their error . 
If your Grace bids me go , and you give me your blessing , I will do my best , said Father Missael . 
He was very pleased with the task entrusted to him . 
Every opportunity he could find to demonstrate the firmness of his faith was a boon to him . 
In trying to convince others he was chiefly intent on persuading himself that he was really a firm believer . 
I am greatly distressed about my flock , said the bishop , leisurely taking a cup with his white plump hands from the servant who brought in the tea . 
Why is there only one kind of jam ? Bring another , he said to the servant . 
I am greatly distressed , he went on , turning to Father Missael . 
The bishop complied with his wishes , and Missael got his things ready with the help of his servant and his cook . 
They furnished him with a case full of wine , and a basket with the victuals he might need in going to such a lonely place . 
Fully provided with all he wanted , he started for the village to which he was commissioned . 
He was pleasantly conscious of the importance of his mission . 
All his doubts as to his own faith passed away , and he was now fully convinced of its reality . 
His thoughts , far from being concerned with the real foundation of his creed this was accepted as an axiom were occupied with the arguments used against the forms of worship . 
XX THE village priest and his wife received Father Missael with great honours , and the next day after he had arrived the parishioners were invited to assemble in the church . 
The dissenters also came in their dirty sheepskin coats . 
The dissenters kept silent at first . 
Then , being asked questions , they gave answers . 
Missael got angry and threatened them with persecution by the authorities . 
Their answer was It is said , I have been persecuted and so will you be . 
Coming out of the church , the crowd of peasants began to consult whether it would not be well to give the infidels a good lesson for disturbing the minds of the community . 
The same day , just when Missael was enjoying some salmon and gangfish , dining at the village priest's in company with the inspector , a violent brawl arose in the village . 
The peasants came in a crowd to Chouev's cottage , and waited for the dissenters to come out in order to give them a thrashing . 
The dissenters assembled in the cottage numbered about twenty men and women . 
Missael's sermon and the attitude of the orthodox peasants , together with their threats , aroused in the mind of the dissenters angry feelings , to which they had before been strangers . 
It was near evening , the women had to go and milk the cows , and the peasants were still standing and waiting at the door . 
A boy who stepped out of the door was beaten and driven back into the house . 
The people within began consulting what was to be done , and could come to no agreement . 
The tailor said , We must bear whatever is done to us , and not resist . 
Chouev replied that if they decided on that course they would , all of them , be beaten to death . 
In consequence , he seized a poker and went out of the house . 
Chouev was thrown into prison and charged with sedition and blasphemy . 
XXI Two years previous to those events a strong and handsome young girl of an eastern type , Katia Turchaninova , came from the Don military settlements to St . 
Petersburg to study in the university college for women . 
In that town she met a student , Turin , the son of a district governor in the Simbirsk province , and fell in love with him . 
But her love was not of the ordinary type , and she had no desire to become his wife and the mother of his children . 
They had also in common the sense that they both excelled their enemies in culture , in brains , as well as in morals . 
Katia Turchaninova was a gifted girl , possessed of a good memory , by means of which she easily mastered the lectures she attended . 
She was successful in her examinations , and , apart from that , read all the newest books . 
She was certain that her vocation was not to bear and rear children , and even looked on such a task with disgust and contempt . 
She was handsome , a little inclined to stoutness she had a good complexion , shining black eyes , abundant black hair . 
She inspired the men she knew with feelings she neither wished nor had time to share , busy as she was with propaganda work , which consisted chiefly in mere talking . 
She was not displeased , however , to inspire these feelings and , without dressing too smartly , did not neglect her appearance . 
She liked to be admired , as it gave her opportunities of showing how little she prized what was valued so highly by other women . 
She went in the summer to stay with a friend , a schoolmistress in a small town on the river Volga . 
Turin lived near that town , on his father's estate . 
He often came to see the two girls they gave each other books to read , and had long discussions , expressing their common indignation with the state of affairs in the country . 
The district doctor , a friend of theirs , used also to join them on many occasions . 
The estate of the Turins was situated in the neighbourhood of the Liventsov estate , the one that was entrusted to the management of Peter Nikolaevich Sventizky . 
He came often to the village to talk with the men , and developed his socialistic theories , insisting particularly on the nationalisation of the land . 
The fact of Turin's visits to the village and his propaganda work among the students , became known to the authorities during the trial . 
A search was made in his house and , as the police found a few revolutionary leaflets among his effects , he was arrested and transferred to prison in St . 
Katia Turchaninova followed him to the metropolis , and went to visit him in prison . 
She was not admitted on the day she came , and was told to come on the day fixed by regulations for visits to the prisoners . 
When that day arrived , and she was finally allowed to see him , she had to talk to him through two gratings separating the prisoner from his visitor . 
This visit increased her indignation against the authorities . 
And her feelings become all the more revolutionary after a visit she paid to the office of a gendarme officer who had to deal with the Turin case . 
The officer , a handsome man , seemed obviously disposed to grant her exceptional favours in visiting the prisoner , if she would allow him to make love to her . 
Disgusted with him , she appealed to the chief of police . 
He pretended just as the officer did when talking officially to her to be powerless himself , and to depend entirely on orders coming from the minister of state . 
She sent a petition to the minister asking for an interview , which was refused . 
Then she resolved to do a desperate thing and bought a revolver . 
XXII THE minister was receiving petitioners at the usual hour appointed for the reception . 
He had talked successively to three of them , and now a pretty young woman with black eyes , who was holding a petition in her left hand , approached . 
The minister's eyes gleamed when he saw how attractive the petitioner was , but recollecting his high position he put on a serious face . 
What do you want ? he asked , coming down to where she stood . 
Without answering his question the young woman quickly drew a revolver from under her cloak and aiming it at the minister's chest fired but missed him . 
The minister rushed at her , trying to seize her hand , but she escaped , and taking a step back , fired a second time . 
The minister ran out of the room . 
The woman was immediately seized . 
She was trembling violently , and could not utter a single word after a while she suddenly burst into a hysterical laugh . 
The minister was not even wounded . 
That woman was Katia Turchaninova . 
She was put into the prison of preliminary detention . 
The minister , a good natured man at heart , was sincerely sorry for the pretty girl . 
But he said to himself that he was bound to consider his high state duties imposed upon him , even though they did not imply much work and trouble . 
And in the meantime Katia Turchaninova was kept in prison . 
She was at times in a quiet mood , communicated with her fellow prisoners by knocking on the walls , and read the books that were sent to her . 
But then came days when she had fits of desperate fury , knocking with her fists against the wall , screaming and laughing like a mad woman . 
XXIII ONE day Maria Semenovna came home from the treasurer's office , where she had received her pension . 
On her way she met a schoolmaster , a friend of hers . 
Good day , Maria Semenovna ! Have you received your money ? the schoolmaster asked , in a loud voice from the other side of the street . 
I have , answered Maria Semenovna . 
But it was not much just enough to fill the holes . 
Oh , there must be some tidy pickings out of such a lot of money , said the schoolmaster , and passed on , after having said good bye . 
Good bye , said Maria Semenovna . 
While she was looking at her friend , she met a tall man face to face , who had very long arms and a stern look in his eyes . 
Coming to her house , she was very startled on again seeing the same man with the long arms , who had evidently followed her . 
He remained standing another moment after she had gone in , then turned and walked away . 
Maria Semenovna felt somewhat frightened at first . 
She gave the money to her father and began to work , as there was always plenty for her to do . 
The man she met face to face was Stepan . 
After he had killed the innkeeper , he did not return to town . 
Strange to say , he was not sorry to have committed that murder . 
Sitting in the public house and having his tea , he looked at the people around him with the same thought how he should murder them . 
In the evening he called at a carter's , a man from his village , to spend the night at his house . 
The carter was not in . 
He said he would wait for him , and in the meanwhile began talking to the carter's wife . 
But when she moved to the stove , with her back turned to him , the idea entered his mind to kill her . 
When the children began to scream , he killed them also and went away . 
He did not look out for another place to spend the night , but at once left the town . 
In a village some distance away he went to the inn and slept there . 
The next day he returned to the district town , and there he overheard in the street Maria Semenovna's talk with the schoolmaster . 
Her look frightened him , but yet he made up his mind to creep into her house , and rob her of the money she had received . 
When the night came he broke the lock and entered the house . 
The first person who heard his steps was the younger daughter , the married one . 
Stepan stabbed her immediately with his knife . 
Her husband woke up and fell upon Stepan , seized him by his throat , and struggled with him desperately . 
But Stepan was the stronger man and overpowered him . 
After murdering him , Stepan , excited by the long fight , stepped into the next room behind a partition . 
That was Maria Semenovna's bedroom . 
She rose in her bed , looked at Stepan with her mild frightened eyes , and crossed herself . 
Once more her look scared Stepan . 
Where is your money ? he asked , without raising his face . 
Where is the money ? asked Stepan again , showing her his knife . 
Oh , what a great sin ! she cried . 
How can you ! Have mercy on yourself . 
and worse , your own ! . 
Stepan could not stand her voice any longer , and drew his knife sharply across her throat . 
Stop that talk ! he said . 
She fell back with a hoarse cry , and the pillow was stained with blood . 
He turned away , and went round the rooms in order to collect all he thought worth taking . 
Having made a bundle of the most valuable things , he lighted a cigarette , sat down for a while , brushed his clothes , and left the house . 
He stepped down into the gutter and remained lying there the rest of the night , and the next day and the next night . 
How can you ? she went on saying in his imagination , with her peculiar lisping voice . 
Stepan saw over again and over again before him all he had done to her . 
In horror he shut his eyes , and shook his hairy head , to drive away these thoughts and recollections . 
For a moment he would get rid of them , but in their place horrid black faces with red eyes appeared and frightened him continuously . 
They grinned at him , and kept repeating , Now you have done away with her you must do away with yourself , or we will not leave you alone . 
He opened his eyes , and again he saw HER and heard her voice and felt an immense pity for her and a deep horror and disgust with himself . 
Once more he shut his eyes , and the black faces reappeared . 
Towards the evening of the next day he rose and went , with hardly any strength left , to a public house . 
There he ordered a drink , and repeated his demands over and over again , but no quantity of liquor could make him intoxicated . 
He was sitting at a table , and swallowed silently one glass after another . 
A police officer came in . 
Who are you ? he asked Stepan . 
I am the man who murdered all the Dobrotvorov people last night , he answered . 
He was arrested , bound with ropes , and brought to the nearest police station the next day he was transferred to the prison in the town . 
The inspector of the prison recognised him as an old inmate , and a very turbulent one and , hearing that he had now become a real criminal , accosted him very harshly . 
You had better be quiet here , he said in a hoarse voice , frowning , and protruding his lower jaw . 
I surrendered of my own free will . 
Shut up ! You must look straight into your superior's eyes when you talk to him , cried the inspector , and struck Stepan with his fist under the jaw . 
At that moment Stepan again saw the murdered woman before him , and heard her voice he did not pay attention , therefore , to the inspector's words . 
What ? he asked , coming to his senses when he felt the blow on his face . 
Be off ! Don't pretend you don't hear . 
The inspector expected Stepan to be violent , to talk to the other prisoners , to make attempts to escape from prison . 
But nothing of the kind ever happened . 
On being brought before the examining magistrate charged with the inquiry into his case , he did not behave like an ordinary convict . 
One day the magistrate , visiting the prison cells , asked Stepan whether there was anything he had to complain of , or whether he had any wishes that might be granted him . 
Stepan said he had no wishes whatever , and had nothing to complain of the way he was treated in prison . 
I simply wonder at him , said the governor , who was very pleased with Stepan , and spoke kindly of him . 
He has now been with us about two months , and could be held up as a model of good behaviour . 
But I am afraid he is plotting some mischief . 
He is a daring man , and exceptionally strong . 
II DURING the first month in prison Stepan suffered from the same agonising vision . 
and , worst of all , your own . 
After a while her voice would die away , and then black faces would appear . 
They would appear whether he had his eyes open or shut . 
With his closed eyes he saw them more distinctly . 
At first this seemed to help . 
He recollected also the first prison he was in and his leaving it , and the fat innkeeper , the carter's wife and the children . 
Then again SHE came to his mind and again he was terrified . 
Once more he tried to pray , but it was of no use now . 
The autumn came with its long nights . 
One evening when the wind whistled and howled in the pipes , Stepan , after he had paced up and down his cell for a long time , sat down on his bed . 
He felt he could not struggle any more the black demons had overpowered him , and he had to submit . 
For some time he had been looking at the funnel of the oven . 
If he could fix on the knob of its lid a loop made of thin shreds of narrow linen straps it would hold . 
But he would have to manage it very cleverly . 
He set to work , and spent two days in making straps out of the linen bag on which he slept . 
When the guard came into the cell he covered the bed with his overcoat . 
He tied the straps with big knots and made them double , in order that they might be strong enough to hold his weight . 
During these preparations he was free from tormenting visions . 
When the straps were ready he made a slip knot out of them , and put it round his neck , stood up in his bed , and hanged himself . 
But at the very moment that his tongue began to protrude the straps got loose , and he fell down . 
The guard rushed in at the noise . 
The doctor was called in , Stepan was brought to the infirmary . 
The next day he recovered , and was removed from the infirmary , no more to solitary confinement , but to share the common cell with other prisoners . 
In the common cell he lived in the company of twenty men , but felt as if he were quite alone . 
He did not notice the presence of the rest did not speak to anybody , and was tormented by the old agony . 
He felt it most of all when the men were sleeping and he alone could not get one moment of sleep . 
Continually he saw HER before his eyes , heard her voice , and then again the black devils with their horrible eyes came and tortured him in the usual way . 
He again tried to say his prayers , but , just as before , it did not help him . 
One day when , after his prayers , she was again before his eyes , he began to implore her dear soul to forgive him his sin , and release him . 
Will you forgive me ? he asked . 
She looked at him with her mild eyes and did not answer . 
Will you forgive me ? And so he asked her three times . 
But she did not say a word , and he awoke . 
III STEPAN'S cell was shared among others by the former yard porter , Vassily , who had been sentenced to deportation for robbery , and by Chouev , sentenced also to deportation . 
Vassily sang songs the whole day long with his fine voice , or told his adventures to the other men in the cell . 
Chouev was working at something all day , mending his clothes , or reading the Gospel and the Psalter . 
He told him how he had learnt the truth from the lame tailor at the time when they were dividing the land . 
And what will become of those who have done evil ? asked Stepan . 
The Scriptures give an answer to that , said Chouev , and read aloud to him Matthew xxv . 
And these shall go away into everlasting punishment but the righteous into life eternal . 
Vassily , who was sitting on the floor at Chouev's side , and was listening to his reading the Gospel , nodded his handsome head in approval . 
True , he said in a resolute tone . 
Go , you cursed villains , into everlasting punishment , since you did not give food to the hungry , but swallowed it all yourself . 
Serves them right ! I have read the holy Nikodim's writings , he added , showing off his erudition . 
And will they never be pardoned ? asked Stepan , who had listened silently , with his hairy head bent low down . 
Wait , I say ! said Chouev , again turning over the leaves of the Gospel . 
Then said Jesus , 'Father , forgive them for they know not what they do . 
And the people stood beholding . 
And the rulers also with them derided Him , saying , 'He saved others let Him save Himself if He be Christ , the chosen of God . 
And the soldiers also mocked Him , coming to Him , and offering Him vinegar , and saying , 'If Thou be the King of the Jews save Thyself . 
And a superscription also was written over Him in letters of Greek , and Latin , and Hebrew , 'This is the King of the Jews . 
And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on Him , saying , 'If thou be Christ , save Thyself and us . 
And he said unto Jesus , 'Lord , remember me when Thou comest into Thy kingdom . 
And Jesus said unto him , 'Verily I say unto thee , to day shalt thou be with Me in paradise . 
Stepan did not say anything , and was sitting in thought , as if he were listening . 
Now he knew what the true faith was . 
Those only will be saved who have given food and drink to the poor and visited the prisoners those who have not done it , go to hell . 
And yet the malefactor had repented on the cross , and went nevertheless to paradise . 
This did not strike him as being inconsistent . 
This was all new to Stepan , and he wondered why it had been hidden from him so long . 
From that day onward he spent all his free time with Chouev , asking him questions and listening to him . 
And from that time Stepan was a different man . 
Without being ordered , and out of his proper turn he would do all the very hardest work in prison , and the dirtiest too . 
Their respect for him increased after the incident of the two tramps who fell upon him he wrenched himself loose from them and broke the arm of one of them in the fight . 
These tramps had gambled with a young prisoner of some means and deprived him of all his money . 
Stepan took his part , and deprived the tramps of their winnings . 
The tramps poured their abuse on him but when they attacked him , he got the better of them . 
When the Governor asked how the fight had come about , the tramps declared that it was Stepan who had begun it . 
Stepan did not try to exculpate himself , and bore patiently his sentence which was three days in the punishment cell , and after that solitary confinement . 
In his solitary cell he suffered because he could no longer listen to Chouev and his Gospel . 
He was also afraid that the former visions of HER and of the black devils would reappear to torment him . 
But the visions were gone for good . 
His soul was full of new and happy ideas . 
He felt glad to be alone if only he could read , and if he had the Gospel . 
He knew that he might have got hold of the Gospel , but he could not read . 
He had started to learn the alphabet in his boyhood , but could not grasp the joining of the syllables , and remained illiterate . 
He made up his mind to start reading anew , and asked the guard to bring him the Gospels . 
They were brought to him , and he sat down to work . 
He contrived to recollect the letters , but could not join them into syllables . 
He tried as hard as he could to understand how the letters ought to be put together to form words , but with no result whatever . 
He lost his sleep , had no desire to eat , and a deep sadness came over him , which he was unable to shake off . 
Well , have you not yet mastered it ? asked the guard one day . 
No. Do you know 'Our Father' ? I do . 
Since you do , read it in the Gospels . 
Here it is , said the guard , showing him the prayer in the Gospels . 
Stepan began to read it , comparing the letters he knew with the familiar sounds . 
And all of a sudden the mystery of the syllables was revealed to him , and he began to read . 
This was a great joy . 
From that moment he could read , and the meaning of the words , spelt out with such great pains , became more significant . 
Stepan did not mind any more being alone . 
He had the advantage of being liked by women , and as he had won favour with a vice minister's former mistress , he was appointed when still young as examining magistrate . 
He was dishonest , had debts , had gambled , and had seduced many women but he was clever , sagacious , and a good magistrate . 
He was appointed to the court of the district where Stepan Pelageushkine had been tried . 
When Stepan was brought to him the first time to give evidence , his sincere and quiet answers puzzled the magistrate . 
He was in consequence somewhat troubled , and had to summon up all his courage in order to go on with the inquiry and not blunder in his questions . 
He was amazed that Stepan should narrate the story of his crimes as if they had been things of long ago , and committed not by him but by some different man . 
Had you no pity for them ? asked Mahin . 
No. I did not know then . 
Well , and now ? Stepan smiled with a sad smile . 
Now , he said , I would not do it even if I were to be burned alive . 
But why ? Because I have come to know that all men are brethren . 
What about me ? Am I your brother also ? Of course you are . 
And how is it that I , your brother , am sending you to hard labour ? It is because you don't know . 
What do I not know ? Since you judge , it means obviously that you don't know . 
What next ? VI Now it was not Chouev , but Stepan who used to read the gospel in the common cell . 
Some of the prisoners were singing coarse songs , while others listened to Stepan reading the gospel and talking about what he had read . 
The most attentive among those who listened were two of the prisoners , Vassily , and a convict called Mahorkin , a murderer who had become a hangman . 
Twice during his stay in this prison he was called upon to do duty as hangman , and both times in far away places where nobody could be found to execute the sentences . 
Two of the peasants who had killed Peter Nikolaevich Sventizky , had been sentenced to the gallows , and Mahorkin was ordered to go to Pensa to hang them . 
But now , to the greatest astonishment of the prison authorities , he said he did not intend to go , and added that he would not be a hangman any more . 
And what about being flogged ? cried the governor of the prison . 
I will have to bear it , as the law commands us not to kill . 
He never paid the slightest attention to other people's feelings , and was therefore better able to keep all they did or said in his memory . 
She asked Mahin to tell her more about the man Pelageushkine , and to explain to her how such a great change had come over him . 
Lisa Eropkin was not able to sleep that night . 
This second desire now became the stronger . 
She had already heard about poor Maria Semenovna . 
She was a rich girl , and was afraid that Mahin had been courting her because of her money . 
So she resolved to give all she possessed to the poor , and told Mahin about it . 
Mahin was very glad to prove his disinterestedness , and told Lisa that he loved her and not her money . 
Such proof of his innate nobility made him admire himself greatly . 
Mahin helped Lisa to carry out her decision . 
And the more he did so , the more he came to realise the new world of Lisa's spiritual ambitions , quite unknown to him heretofore . 
VIII ALL were silent in the common cell . 
Stepan was lying in his bed , but was not yet asleep . 
Vassily approached him , and , pulling him by his leg , asked him in a whisper to get up and to come to him . 
Stepan stepped out of his bed , and came up to Vassily . 
Do me a kindness , brother , said Vassily . 
Help me ! In what ? I am going to fly from the prison . 
Vassily told Stepan that he had everything ready for his flight . 
To morrow I shall stir them up He pointed to the prisoners asleep in their beds . 
They will give me away , and I shall be transferred to the cell in the upper floor . 
I know my way from there . 
What I want you for is to unscrew the prop in the door of the mortuary . 
But where will you go ? I don't care where . 
Are not there plenty of wicked people in every place ? Quite so , brother . 
But it is not our business to judge them . 
I am not a murderer , to be sure . 
I have not destroyed a living soul in my life . 
As for stealing , I don't see any harm in that . 
As if they have not robbed us ! Let them answer for it themselves , if they do . 
I will give it to all good people . 
One of the prisoners rose in his bed and listened . 
Stepan and Vassily broke off their conversation . 
The next day Vassily carried out his idea . 
He began complaining of the bread in prison , saying it was moist , and induced the prisoners to call the governor and to tell him of their discontent . 
This was all Vassily wanted . 
IX VASSILY knew well that cell on the upper floor . 
He knew its floor , and began at once to take out bits of it . 
When he had managed to get under the floor he took out pieces of the ceiling beneath , and jumped down into the mortuary a floor below . 
That day only one corpse was lying on the table . 
There in the corner of the room were stored bags to make hay mattresses for the prisoners . 
Vassily knew about the bags , and that was why the mortuary served his purposes . 
The prop in the door had been unscrewed and put in again . 
He took it out , opened the door , and went out into the passage to the lavatory which was being built . 
In the lavatory was a large hole connecting the third floor with the basement floor . 
, took the bags , tied them together to make a rope , and carried the rope to the lavatory . 
Then he attached it to the cross beam , and climbed down along it . 
The rope did not reach the ground , but he did not know how much was wanting . 
Anyhow , he had to take the risk . 
He remained hanging in the air , and then jumped down . 
His legs were badly hurt , but he could still walk on . 
The basement had two windows he could have climbed out of one of them but for the grating protecting them . 
He had to break the grating , but there was no tool to do it with . 
Vassily began to look around him , and chanced on a piece of plank with a sharp edge armed with that weapon he tried to loosen the bricks which held the grating . 
He worked a long time at that task . 
The cock crowed for the second time , but the grating still held . 
At last he had loosened one side and then he pushed the plank under the loosened end and pressed with all his force . 
The grating gave way completely , but at that moment one of the bricks fell down heavily . 
The noise could have been heard by the sentry . 
He climbed out of the window . 
His way of escape was to climb the wall . 
An outhouse stood in the corner of the courtyard . 
He had to reach its roof , and pass thence to the top of the wall . 
But he would not be able to reach the roof without the help of the plank so he had to go back through the basement window to fetch it . 
A moment later he came out of the window with the plank in his hands he stood still for a while listening to the steps of the sentry . 
The sentry was walking up and down on the other side of the courtyard . 
Vassily came up to the outhouse , leaned the plank against it , and began climbing . 
The plank slipped and fell on the ground . 
Vassily had his stockings on he took them off so that be could cling with his bare feet in coming down . 
Then he leaned the plank again against the house , and seized the water pipe with his hands . 
If only this time the plank would hold ! A quick movement up the water pipe , and his knee rested on the roof . 
The sentry did not notice him , and passed on . 
Vassily leaped to his feet the iron roof cracked under him . 
Another step or two , and he would reach the wall . 
He could touch it with his hand now . 
He leaned forward with one hand , then with the other , stretched out his body as far as he could , and found himself on the wall . 
Help , me , God ! He was on the ground . 
And the ground was soft . 
His legs were not hurt , and he ran at the top of his speed . 
In a suburb , Malania opened her door , and he crept under her warm coverlet , made of small pieces of different colours stitched together . 
The horror of such a sight to Natalia Ivanovna was so intense how could it be otherwise ? that all her other feelings vanished . 
Her joy made her aghast she did not confess it to herself , but hid it the more from those around . 
When his mutilated , yellow and hairy body was being washed and put into the coffin , she cried with horror , and wept and sobbed . 
One of them was an old man with a curly white beard , and a calm and severe countenance . 
The other was rather young , of a gipsy type , with bright eyes and curly dishevelled hair . 
She declared that they were the two men who had first seized hold of Peter Nikolaevich's hands . 
In spite of the gipsy like peasant looking at her with his eyes glistening from under his moving eyebrows , and saying reproachfully A great sin , lady , it is . 
Remember your death hour ! in spite of that , she did not feel at all sorry for them . 
On the contrary , she began to hate them during the inquest , and wished desperately to take revenge on her husband's murderers . 
But unpleasant doubts soon pass away under the solemnity of a trial . 
Since such high authorities considered that this was the right thing to do , it must be right . 
The execution was to take place in the village itself . 
She also announced that the families of the convicts were raging , and that their cries could be heard all over the village . 
She only considered her own feelings , and did not care for the convicts and their families . 
On Tuesday the village constable called on Natalia Ivanovna . 
He was a friend , and she offered him vodka and preserved mushrooms of her own making . 
The constable , after eating a little , told her that the execution was not to take place the next day . 
Why ? A very strange thing has happened . 
There is no hangman to be found . 
They had one in Moscow , my son told me , but he has been reading the Gospels a good deal and says 'I will not commit a murder . 
He had himself been sentenced to hard labour for having committed a murder , and now he objects to hang when the law orders him . 
He was threatened with flogging . 
'You may flog me , he said , 'but I won't do it . 
Natalia Ivanovna grew red and hot at the thought which suddenly came into her head . 
Could not the death sentence be commuted now ? How so , since the judges have passed it ? The Czar alone has the right of amnesty . 
But how would he know ? They have the right of appealing to him . 
But it is on my account they are to die , said that stupid woman , Natalia Ivanovna . 
Well send a petition to the Czar . 
May I do it ? Of course you may . 
But is it not too late ? Send it by telegram . 
To the Czar himself ? To the Czar , if you like . 
The story of the hangman having refused to do his duty , and preferring to take the flogging instead , suddenly changed the soul of Natalia Ivanovna . 
The pity and the horror she felt the moment she heard that the peasants were sentenced to death , could not be stifled now , but filled her whole soul . 
Filip Vassilievich , my friend . 
Write that telegram for me . 
I want to appeal to the Czar to pardon them . 
The constable shook his head . 
I wonder whether that would not involve us in trouble ? I do it upon my own responsibility . 
I will not mention your name . 
Is not she a kind woman , thought the constable . 
Very kind hearted , to be sure . 
If my wife had such a heart , our life would be a paradise , instead of what it is now . 
And he wrote the telegram , To his Imperial Majesty , the Emperor . 
The telegram was sent by the constable himself , and Natalia Ivanovna felt relieved and happy . 
XI LISA EROPKIN lived in a state of continual excitement . 
She had two immediate aims before her . 
The one was to convert Mahin or , as she put it to herself , to arouse his true nature , which was good and kind . 
She loved him , and the light of her love revealed the divine element in his soul which is at the bottom of all souls . 
But , further , she saw in him an exceptionally kind and tender heart , as well as a noble mind . 
Her other aim was to abandon her riches . 
She began by simply giving money to any one who wanted it . 
But her father stopped that besides which , she felt disgusted at the crowd of supplicants who personally , and by letters , besieged her with demands for money . 
Her father got angry with her when he heard about it . 
During a violent altercation he called her mad , a raving lunatic , and said he would take measures to prevent her from doing injury to herself . 
Her father's irritation proved contagious . 
Losing all control over herself , and sobbing with rage , she behaved with the greatest impertinence to her father , calling him a tyrant and a miser . 
Then she asked his forgiveness . 
He said he did not mind what she said but she saw plainly that he was offended , and in his heart did not forgive her . 
She did not feel inclined to tell Mahin about her quarrel with her father as to her sister , she was very cold to Lisa , being jealous of Mahin's love for her . 
I ought to confess to God , she said to herself . 
The monk had received a letter from Lisa's father announcing the visit of his daughter , and telling him in what a state of excitement the young girl was . 
Lisa listened silently , blushing and flushed with excitement . 
When he had finished admonishing her , she began saying with tears in her eyes , timidly at first , that Christ bade us leave father and mother to follow Him . 
Getting more and more excited , she told him her conception of Christ . 
The next day Lisa came to confession , and without renewing their interrupted conversation , he absolved her and refused to dispose of her fortune , giving no reasons for doing so . 
Lisa's purity , her devotion to God and her ardent soul , impressed the monk deeply . 
He had desired long ago to renounce the world entirely but the brotherhood , which drew a large income from his work as a preacher , insisted on his continuing his activity . 
He gave way , although he had a vague feeling that he was in a false position . 
It was rumoured that he was a miracle working saint , whereas in reality he was a weak man , proud of his success in the world . 
When the soul of Lisa was revealed to him , he saw clearly into his own soul . 
He discovered how different he was to what he wanted to be , and realised the desire of his heart . 
Soon after Lisa's visit he went to live in a separate cell as a hermit , and for three weeks did not officiate again in the church of the friary . 
After the celebration of the mass , he preached a sermon denouncing his own sins and those of the world , and urging all to repent . 
From that day he preached every fortnight , and his sermons attracted increasing audiences . 
His fame as a preacher spread abroad . 
His sermons were extraordinarily fearless and sincere , and deeply impressed all who listened to him . 
XII VASSILY was actually carrying out the object he bad in leaving the prison . 
With the help of a few friends he broke into the house of the rich merchant Krasnopuzov , whom he knew to be a miser and a debauchee . 
Vassily took out of his writing desk thirty thousand roubles , and began disposing of them as he thought right . 
As he also gave bribes to the police , he was left in peace for a long time . 
His heart was singing for joy . 
When at last he was arrested and put to trial , he confessed with pride that he had robbed the fat merchant . 
The counsel for the defence spoke with such good humour and kindness that the jury felt inclined to discharge Vassily , but sentenced him nevertheless to confinement in prison . 
He thanked the jury , and assured them that he would find his way out of prison before long . 
XIII NATALIA IVANOVNA SVENTIZKY'S telegram proved useless . 
The committee appointed to deal with the petitions in the Emperor's name , decided not even to make a report to the Czar . 
C'est tres gentil de sa part , said one of the ladies of the imperial family . 
The Emperor sighed , shrugged his shoulders , adorned with epaulettes . 
The law , he said and raised his glass for the groom of the chamber to pour out some Moselle . 
All those present pretended to admire the wisdom of the sovereign's words . 
There was no further question about the telegram . 
The two peasants , the old man and the young boy , were hanged by a Tartar hangman from Kazan , a cruel convict and a murderer . 
The two men were buried together in the same pit outside the church yard wall . 
Princess Sofia Vladimirovna tells me he is a very remarkable preacher , remarked the old Empress , the Emperor's mother , one day to her son Faites le venir . 
Il peut precher a la cathedrale . 
No , it would be better in the palace church , said the Emperor , and ordered the hermit Isidor to be invited . 
All the generals , and other high officials , assembled in the church of the imperial palace it was an event to hear the famous preacher . 
A thin and grey old man appeared , looked at those present , and said In the name of God , the Son , and the Holy Ghost , and began to speak . 
At first all went well , but the longer he spoke the worse it became . 
Il devient de plus en plus aggressif , as the Empress put it afterwards . 
He fulminated against every one . 
He spoke about the executions and charged the government with having made so many necessary . 
When Isidor had said Amen , the metropolitan approached , and asked him to call on him . 
XIV EVERY one tried to look as if Isidor's sermon contained nothing unpleasant , and nobody mentioned it . 
That day the Emperor had to be present at a parade after which he went out for a drive a reception of ministers came next , then dinner , after dinner the theatre . 
As usual , the Czar fell asleep the moment his head touched the pillow . 
And somebody shouted , It is you you who have done it ! The Czar woke up bathed in perspiration and began to think . 
It was the first time that he had ever thought of the responsibilities which weighed on him , and the words of old Isidor came back to his mind . 
As to acknowledging that human duties were more obligatory than those of a Czar he had not strength for that . 
He seemed , on the contrary , a complete wreck . 
When he came home he would continue to sit idle , coughing and spitting all the time . 
The doctor on whom he called , examined his chest and shook his head . 
You , my man , ought to have many things which you have not got . 
That is usually the case , isn't it ? Take plenty of milk , and don't smoke . 
These are days of fasting , and besides we have no cow . 
Once in spring he could not get any sleep he was longing to have a drink . 
There was nothing in the house he could lay his hand on to take to the public house . 
He put on his cap and went out . 
He walked along the street up to the house where the priest and the deacon lived together . 
The deacon's harrow stood outside leaning against the hedge . 
Prokofy approached , took the harrow upon his shoulder , and walked to an inn kept by a woman , Petrovna . 
She might give him a small bottle of vodka for it . 
But he had hardly gone a few steps when the deacon came out of his house . 
It was already dawn , and he saw that Prokofy was carrying away his harrow . 
Hey , what's that ? cried the deacon . 
The neighbours rushed out from their houses . 
Prokofy was seized , brought to the police station , and then sentenced to eleven months' imprisonment . 
It was autumn , and Prokofy had to be transferred to the prison hospital . 
He was coughing badly his chest was heaving from the exertion and he could not get warm . 
Prokofy suffered greatly in body , and still more in soul . 
He began also to hate the new convict who was brought into hospital . 
He was suffering from some disease on his head , and was transferred to the hospital and put in a bed at Prokofy's side . 
After a time that hatred to Stepan changed , and Prokofy became , on the contrary , extremely fond of him he delighted in talking to him . 
It was only after a talk with Stepan that his anguish would cease for a while . 
Stepan always told every one he met about his last murder , and how it had impressed him . 
Far from shrieking , or anything of that kind , he said to Prokofy , she did not move . 
'Kill me ! There I am , she said . 
'But it is not my soul you destroy , it is your own . 
Well , of course , it is very dreadful to kill . 
I had one day to slaughter a sheep , and even that made me half mad . 
I have not destroyed any living soul why then do those villains kill me ? I have done no harm to anybody . 
That will be taken into consideration . 
By whom ? By God , to be sure . 
I have not seen anything yet showing that God exists , and I don't believe in Him , brother . 
I think when a man dies , grass will grow over the spot , and that is the end of it . 
You are wrong to think like that . 
I have murdered so many people , whereas she , poor soul , was helping everybody . 
And you think she and I are to have the same lot ? Oh no ! Only wait . 
Then you believe the soul lives on after a man is dead ? To be sure it truly lives . 
Prokofy suffered greatly when death drew near . 
But in the very last hour he felt suddenly relieved from all pain . 
He called Stepan to him . 
Farewell , brother , he said . 
Death has come , I see . 
I was so afraid of it before . 
And now I don't mind . 
I only wish it to come quicker . 
XVI IN the meanwhile , the affairs of Eugene Mihailovich had grown worse and worse . 
There was a new shop in the town he was losing his customers , and the interest had to be paid . 
He borrowed again on interest . 
At last his shop and his goods were to be sold up . 
Eugene Mihailovich and his wife applied to every one they knew , but they could not raise the four hundred roubles they needed to save the shop anywhere . 
They had some hope of the merchant Krasnopuzov , Eugene Mihailovich's wife being on good terms with his mistress . 
But news came that Krasnopuzov had been robbed of a huge sum of money . 
Some said of half a million roubles . 
And do you know who is said to be the thief ? said Eugene Mihailovich to his wife . 
Vassily , our former yard porter . 
They say he is squandering the money , and the police are bribed by him . 
I knew he was a villain . 
You remember how he did not mind perjuring himself ? But I did not expect it would go so far . 
I hear he has recently been in the courtyard of our house . 
Cook says she is sure it was he . 
She told me he helps poor girls to get married . 
At that moment a strange man , shabbily dressed , entered the shop . 
What is it you want ? Here is a letter for you . 
From whom ? You will see yourself . 
Don't you require an answer ? Wait a moment . 
The strange man handed the letter and disappeared . 
How extraordinary ! said Eugene Mihailovich , and tore open the envelope . 
To his great amazement several hundred rouble notes fell out . 
Four hundred roubles ! he exclaimed , hardly believing his eyes . 
What does it mean ? The envelope also contained a badly spelt letter , addressed to Eugene Mihailovich . 
It is said in the Gospels , ran the letter , do good for evil . 
You have done me much harm and in the coupon case you made me wrong the peasants greatly . 
But I have pity for you . 
Here are four hundred notes . 
Take them , and remember your porter Vassily . 
Very extraordinary ! said Eugene Mihailovich to his wife and to himself . 
And each time he remembered that incident , or spoke about it to his wife , tears would come to his eyes . 
XVII FOURTEEN priests were kept in the Suzdal friary prison , chiefly for having been untrue to the orthodox faith . 
Isidor had been sent to that place also . 
Father Missael received him according to the instructions he had been given , and without talking to him ordered him to be put into a separate cell as a serious criminal . 
After a fortnight Father Missael , making a round of the prison , entered Isidor's cell , and asked him whether there was anything he wished for . 
There is a great deal I wish for , answered Isidor but I cannot tell you what it is in the presence of anybody else . 
Let me talk to you privately . 
They looked at each other , and Missael saw he had nothing to be afraid of in remaining alone with Isidor . 
He ordered Isidor to be brought into his own room , and when they were alone , he said , Well , now you can speak . 
Isidor fell on his knees . 
What are you doing to yourself ! Have mercy on your own soul . 
You are the worst villain in the world . 
You have offended against all that is sacred . 
A month after Missael sent a report , asking that Isidor should be released as he had repented , and he also asked for the release of the rest of the prisoners . 
After which he resigned his post . 
Mitia Smokovnikov had finished his studies in the Technical College he was now an engineer in the gold mines in Siberia , and was very highly paid . 
One day he was about to make a round in the district . 
The governor offered him a convict , Stepan Pelageushkine , to accompany him on his journey . 
A convict , you say ? But is not that dangerous ? Not if it is this one . 
He is a holy man . 
You may ask anybody , they will all tell you so . 
Why has he been sent here ? The governor smiled . 
He had committed six murders , and yet he is a holy man . 
I go bail for him . 
Mitia Smokovnikov took Stepan , now a bald headed , lean , tanned man , with him on his journey . 
These thoughts never left him now , and produced a complete change in his habits . 
After a time he was offered a very advantageous position . 
XIX HE carried out his intentions . 
But before retiring to his estate he called on his father , with whom he had been on bad terms , and who had settled apart with his new family . 
Mitia Smokovnikov wanted to make it up . 
But I believe it is all chance . 
Thus spoke our excellent friend , Ivan Vasilievich , after a conversation between us on the impossibility of improving individual character without a change of the conditions under which men live . 
He often quite forgot the reason for his story in telling it but he always told it with great sincerity and feeling . 
My whole life was moulded , not by environment , but by something quite different . 
By what , then ? we asked . 
Oh , that is a long story . 
I should have to tell you about a great many things to make you understand . 
Well , tell us then . 
Ivan Vasilievich thought a little , and shook his head . 
My whole life , he said , was changed in one night , or , rather , morning . 
Why , what happened ? one of us asked . 
What happened was that I was very much in love . 
I have been in love many times , but this was the most serious of all . 
It is a thing of the past she has married daughters now . 
Ivan Vasilievich mentioned her surname . 
Even at fifty she is remarkably handsome but in her youth , at eighteen , she was exquisite tall , slender , graceful , and stately . 
What an entrancing description you give , Ivan Vasilievich ! Description , indeed ! I could not possibly describe her so that you could appreciate her . 
But that does not matter what I am going to tell you happened in the forties . 
I was at that time a student in a provincial university . 
I don't know whether it was a good thing or no , but we had no political clubs , no theories in our universities then . 
We were simply young and spent our time as young men do , studying and amusing ourselves . 
I was a very gay , lively , careless fellow , and had plenty of money too . 
I had a fine horse , and used to go tobogganing with the young ladies . 
Skating had not yet come into fashion . 
I went to drinking parties with my comrades in those days we drank nothing but champagne if we had no champagne we drank nothing at all . 
We never drank vodka , as they do now . 
Evening parties and balls were my favourite amusements . 
I danced well , and was not an ugly fellow . 
Come , there is no need to be modest , interrupted a lady near him . 
We have seen your photograph . 
Not ugly , indeed ! You were a handsome fellow . 
Handsome , if you like . 
The guests were welcomed by his wife , who was as good natured as himself . 
It was a delightful ball . 
It was a splendid room , with a gallery for the orchestra , which was famous at the time , and consisted of serfs belonging to a musical landowner . 
The refreshments were magnificent , and the champagne flowed in rivers . 
Though I was fond of champagne I did not drink that night , because without it I was drunk with love . 
But I made up for it by dancing waltzes and polkas till I was ready to drop of course , whenever possible , with Varinka . 
She wore a white dress with a pink sash , white shoes , and white kid gloves , which did not quite reach to her thin pointed elbows . 
A disgusting engineer named Anisimov robbed me of the mazurka with her to this day I cannot forgive him . 
He asked her for the dance the minute she arrived , while I had driven to the hair dresser's to get a pair of gloves , and was late . 
I was not alone they were all looking at her with admiration , the men and women alike , although she outshone all of them . 
They could not help admiring her . 
Although I was not nominally her partner for the mazurka , I did as a matter of fact dance nearly the whole time with her . 
She always came forward boldly the whole length of the room to pick me out . 
I flew to meet her without waiting to be chosen , and she thanked me with a smile for my intuition . 
Ivan Vasilievich cried out , almost shouting in anger There you are , moderns all over ! Nowadays you think of nothing but the body . 
It was different in our day . 
The more I was in love the less corporeal was she in my eyes . 
Nowadays you think of nothing but the body . 
It was different in our day . 
The more I was in love the less corporeal was she in my eyes . 
Nowadays you set legs , ankles , and I don't know what . 
You undress the women you are in love with . 
In my eyes , as Alphonse Karr said and he was a good writer the one I loved was always draped in robes of bronze . 
We never thought of doing so we tried to veil her nakedness , like Noah's good natured son . 
Oh , well , you can't understand . 
Don't pay any attention to him . 
Go on , said one of them . 
Well , I danced for the most part with her , and did not notice how time was passing . 
The musicians kept playing the same mazurka tunes over and over again in desperate exhaustion you know what it is towards the end of a ball . 
Papas and mammas were already getting up from the card tables in the drawing room in expectation of supper , the men servants were running to and fro bringing in things . 
It was nearly three o'clock . 
I had to make the most of the last minutes . 
I chose her again for the mazurka , and for the hundredth time we danced across the room . 
'The quadrille after supper is mine , I said , taking her to her place . 
'Of course , if I am not carried off home , she said , with a smile . 
'I won't give you up , I said . 
'Give me my fan , anyhow , she answered . 
'I am so sorry to part with it , I said , handing her a cheap white fan . 
'Well , here's something to console you , she said , plucking a feather out of the fan , and giving it to me . 
I took the feather , and could only express my rapture and gratitude with my eyes . 
I was not only pleased and gay , I was happy , delighted I was good , I was not myself but some being not of this earth , knowing nothing of evil . 
I hid the feather in my glove , and stood there unable to tear myself away from her . 
'Varinka , come here ! exclaimed our hostess , the lady with the diamond ferronniere and with shoulders like Elizabeth , in a loud voice . 
'Varinka went to the door , and I followed her . 
'Persuade your father to dance the mazurka with you , ma chere . 
Do , please , Peter Valdislavovich , she said , turning to the colonel . 
Varinka's father was a very handsome , well preserved old man . 
He had a good colour , moustaches curled in the style of Nicolas I. , and white whiskers which met the moustaches . 
His hair was combed on to his forehead , and a bright smile , like his daughter's , was on his lips and in his eyes . 
He was splendidly set up , with a broad military chest , on which he wore some decorations , and he had powerful shoulders and long slim legs . 
'Everything must be done according to rule , he said with a smile . 
He took the hand of his daughter , and stood one quarter turned , waiting for the music . 
Varinka swayed gracefully beside him , rhythmically and easily , making her steps short or long , with her little feet in their white satin slippers . 
All the people in the room followed every movement of the couple . 
As for me I not only admired , I regarded them with enraptured sympathy . 
I was particularly impressed with the old gentleman's boots . 
They were not the modern pointed affairs , but were made of cheap leather , squared toed , and evidently built by the regimental cobbler . 
Still , he contrived to go twice round the room . 
Rising with an effort , he tenderly took his daughter's face between his hands . 
He kissed her on the forehead , and brought her to me , under the impression that I was her partner for the mazurka . 
I said I was not . 
just go around the room once with her , he said , smiling kindly , as he replaced his sword in the sheath . 
As the contents of a bottle flow readily when the first drop has been poured , so my love for Varinka seemed to set free the whole force of loving within me . 
In surrounding her it embraced the world . 
I loved the hostess with her diadem and her shoulders like Elizabeth , and her husband and her guests and her footmen , and even the engineer Anisimov who felt peevish towards me . 
As for Varinka's father , with his home made boots and his kind smile , so like her own , I felt a sort of tenderness for him that was almost rapture . 
After supper I danced the promised quadrille with her , and though I had been infinitely happy before , I grew still happier every moment . 
We did not speak of love . 
I neither asked myself nor her whether she loved me . 
It was quite enough to know that I loved her . 
And I had only one fear that something might come to interfere with my great joy . 
When I went home , and began to undress for the night , I found it quite out of the question . 
held the little feather out of her fan in my hand , and one of her gloves which she gave me when I helped her into the carriage after her mother . 
Looking at these things , and without closing my eyes I could see her before me as she was for an instant when she had to choose between two partners . 
At supper she took the first sip from my glass of champagne , looking at me over the rim with her caressing glance . 
But , plainest of all , I could see her as she danced with her father , gliding along beside him , and looking at the admiring observers with pride and happiness . 
He and she were united in my mind in one rush of pathetic tenderness . 
I was living then with my brother , who has since died . 
He disliked going out , and never went to dances and besides , he was busy preparing for his last university examinations , and was leading a very regular life . 
Our serf Petrusha had met me with a candle , ready to undress me , but I sent him away . 
His sleepy face and tousled hair seemed to me so touching . 
Trying not to make a noise , I went to my room on tiptoe and sat down on my bed . 
No , I was too happy I could not sleep . 
Besides , it was too hot in the rooms . 
Without taking off my uniform , I went quietly into the hall , put on my overcoat , opened the front door and stepped out into the street . 
It was after four when I had left the ball going home and stopping there a while had occupied two hours , so by the time I went out it was dawn . 
It was regular carnival weather foggy , and the road full of water soaked snow just melting , and water dripping from the eaves . 
Varinka's family lived on the edge of town near a large field , one end of which was a parade ground at the other end was a boarding school for young ladies . 
I passed through our empty little street and came to the main thoroughfare , where I met pedestrians and sledges laden with wood , the runners grating the road . 
All this , the very horses themselves , seemed to me stimulating and fascinating , full of suggestion . 
My heart had been full of song , and I had heard in imagination the tune of the mazurka , but this was very harsh music . 
'What can that be ? I thought , and went towards the sound by a slippery path through the centre of the field . 
Walking about a hundred paces , I began to distinguish many black objects through the mist . 
'It is probably a drill , I thought . 
So I went along in that direction in company with a blacksmith , who wore a dirty coat and an apron , and was carrying something . 
He walked ahead of me as we approached the place . 
The soldiers in black uniforms stood in two rows , facing each other motionless , their guns at rest . 
Behind them stood the fifes and drums , incessantly repeating the same unpleasant tune . 
'What are they doing ? I asked the blacksmith , who halted at my side . 
'A Tartar is being beaten through the ranks for his attempt to desert , said the blacksmith in an angry tone , as he looked intently at the far end of the line . 
I looked in the same direction , and saw between the files something horrid approaching me . 
The thing that approached was a man , stripped to the waist , fastened with cords to the guns of two soldiers who were leading him . 
At his side an officer in overcoat and cap was walking , whose figure had a familiar look . 
The victim advanced under the blows that rained upon him from both sides , his whole body plunging , his feet dragging through the snow . 
Now he threw himself backward , and the subalterns who led him thrust him forward . 
Now he fell forward , and they pulled him up short while ever at his side marched the tall officer , with firm and nervous pace . 
It was Varinka's father , with his rosy face and white moustache . 
But I could only hear what the words were when he came quite near . 
The man plunged forward , but the subalterns pulled him back , and another blow came down from the other side , then from this side and then from the other . 
When they passed the place where I stood , I caught a glimpse between the two files of the back of the man that was being punished . 
It was something so many coloured , wet , red , unnatural , that I could hardly believe it was a human body . 
'My God ! muttered the blacksmith . 
The procession moved farther away . 
Then , suddenly , the colonel stopped , and rapidly approached a man in the ranks . 
'I'll teach you to hit him gently , I heard his furious voice say . 
'Bring new sticks ! he cried , and looking round , he saw me . 
Assuming an air of not knowing me , and with a ferocious , angry frown , he hastily turned away . 
I felt so utterly ashamed that I didn't know where to look . 
It was as if I had been detected in a disgraceful act . 
I dropped my eyes , and quickly hurried home . 
All the way I had the drums beating and the fifes whistling in my ears . 
And I heard the words , 'Brothers , have mercy on me ! or 'Will you pat him ? Will you ? My heart was full of physical disgust that was almost sickness . 
I do not remember how I got home and got to bed . 
But the moment I was about to fall asleep I heard and saw again all that had happened , and I sprang up . 
'Evidently he knows something I do not know , I thought about the colonel . 
'If I knew what he knows I should certainly grasp understand what I have just seen , and it would not cause me such suffering . 
But however much I thought about it , I could not understand the thing that the colonel knew . 
It was evening before I could get to sleep , and then only after calling on a friend and drinking till I was quite drunk . 
Do you think I had come to the conclusion that the deed I had witnessed was wicked ? Oh , no . 
Since it was done with such assurance , and was recognised by every one as indispensable , they doubtless knew something which I did not know . 
So I thought , and tried to understand . 
But no matter , I could never understand it , then or afterwards . 
And not being able to grasp it , I could not enter the service as I had intended . 
I don't mean only the military service I did not enter the Civil Service either . 
And so I have been of no use whatever , as you can see . 
Yes , we know how useless you've been , said one of us . 
Tell us , rather , how many people would be of any use at all if it hadn't been for you . 
Oh , that's utter nonsense , said Ivan Vasilievich , with genuine annoyance . 
Well and what about the love affair ? My love ? It decreased from that day . 
So my love came to naught . 
Yes such chances arise , and they alter and direct a man's whole life , he said in summing up . 
ALYOSHA THE POT ALYOSHA THE POT ALYOSHA was the younger brother . 
He was called the Pot , because his mother had once sent him with a pot of milk to the deacon's wife , and he had stumbled against something and broken it . 
His mother had beaten him , and the children had teased him . 
Since then he was nicknamed the Pot . 
Alyosha was a tiny , thin little fellow , with ears like wings , and a huge nose . 
Alyosha has a nose that looks like a dog on a hill ! the children used to call after him . 
Alyosha went to the village school , but was not good at lessons besides , there was so little time to learn . 
His elder brother was in town , working for a merchant , so Alyosha had to help his father from a very early age . 
And at twelve years of age he had already begun to plough and to drive the cart . 
The skill was there though the strength was not . 
Whenever the children made fun of him , he would either laugh or be silent . 
When his father scolded him he would stand mute and listen attentively , and as soon as the scolding was over would smile and go on with his work . 
Alyosha was nineteen when his brother was taken as a soldier . 
So his father placed him with the merchant as a yard porter . 
He was given his brother's old boots , his father's old coat and cap , and was taken to town . 
Alyosha was delighted with his clothes , but the merchant was not impressed by his appearance . 
He's a good one to work . 
He looks rather thin , but he's tough enough . 
All right we'll see what we can do with him . 
So Alyosha remained at the merchant's . 
The family was not a large one . 
They did not take to Alyosha at first . 
He was uncouth , badly dressed , and had no manner , but they soon got used to him . 
Alyosha worked even better than his brother had done he was really very willing . 
They sent him on all sorts of errands , but he did everything quickly and readily , going from one task to another without stopping . 
And so here , just as at home , all the work was put upon his shoulders . 
The more he did , the more he was given to do . 
His mistress , her old mother , the son , the daughter , the clerk , and the cook all ordered him about , and sent him from one place to another . 
Alyosha , do this ! Alyosha , do that ! What ! have you forgotten , Alyosha ? Mind you don't forget , Alyosha ! was heard from morning till night . 
And Alyosha ran here , looked after this and that , forgot nothing , found time for everything , and was always cheerful . 
His brother's old boots were soon worn out , and his master scolded him for going about in tatters with his toes sticking out . 
He ordered another pair to be bought for him in the market . 
Alyosha was delighted with his new boots , but was angry with his feet when they ached at the end of the day after so much running about . 
And then he was afraid that his father would be annoyed when he came to town for his wages , to find that his master had deducted the cost of the boots . 
In the winter Alyosha used to get up before daybreak . 
Then he was sent to town on various errands , to bring the daughter home from school , or to get some olive oil for the old mother . 
Why the devil have you been so long ? first one , then another , would say to him . 
Why should they go ? Alyosha can go . 
Alyosha ! Alyosha ! And Alyosha ran here and there . 
He breakfasted in snatches while he was working , and rarely managed to get his dinner at the proper hour . 
The cook used to scold him for being late , but she was sorry for him all the same , and would keep something hot for his dinner and supper . 
At holiday times there was more work than ever , but Alyosha liked holidays because everybody gave him a tip . 
Not much certainly , but it would amount up to about sixty kopeks s d his very own money . 
For Alyosha never set eyes on his wages . 
His father used to come and take them from the merchant , and only scold Alyosha for wearing out his boots . 
Alyosha was not talkative when he spoke at all , he spoke abruptly , with his head turned away . 
When told to do anything , or asked if he could do it , he would say yes without the smallest hesitation , and set to work at once . 
Alyosha did not know any prayer and had forgotten what his mother had taught him . 
But he prayed just the same , every morning and every evening , prayed with his hands , crossing himself . 
He lived like this for about a year and a half , and towards the end of the second year a most startling thing happened to him . 
Suddenly Alyosha felt he was such a man . 
He made this discovery through the cook Ustinia . 
She was young , had no parents , and worked as hard as Alyosha . 
He felt for the first time in his life that he not his services , but he himself was necessary to another human being . 
When his mother used to be sorry for him , he had taken no notice of her . 
It had seemed to him quite natural , as though he were feeling sorry for himself . 
But here was Ustinia , a perfect stranger , and sorry for him . 
She would save him some hot porridge , and sit watching him , her chin propped on her bare arm , with the sleeve rolled up , while he was eating it . 
When he looked at her she would begin to laugh , and he would laugh too . 
This was such a new , strange thing to him that it frightened Alyosha . 
He feared that it might interfere with his work . 
But he was pleased , nevertheless , and when he glanced at the trousers that Ustinia had mended for him , he would shake his head and smile . 
He would often think of her while at work , or when running on errands . 
A fine girl , Ustinia ! he sometimes exclaimed . 
Ustinia used to help him whenever she could , and he helped her . 
She liked to talk , and Alyosha liked to listen to her . 
He had heard that peasants who came up to work in the towns frequently got married to servant girls . 
On one occasion she asked him if his parents intended marrying him soon . 
He said that he did not know that he did not want to marry any of the village girls . 
Have you taken a fancy to some one , then ? I would marry you , if you'd be willing . 
Get along with you , Alyosha the Pot but you've found your tongue , haven't you ? she exclaimed , slapping him on the back with a towel she held in her hand . 
Why shouldn't I ? At Shrovetide Alyosha's father came to town for his wages . 
It had come to the ears of the merchant's wife that Alyosha wanted to marry Ustinia , and she disapproved of it . 
What will be the use of her with a baby ? she thought , and informed her husband . 
The merchant gave the old man Alyosha's wages . 
How is my lad getting on ? he asked . 
I told you he was willing . 
That's all right , as far as it goes , but he's taken some sort of nonsense into his head . 
He wants to marry our cook . 
Now I don't approve of married servants . 
We won't have them in the house . 
Well , now , who would have thought the fool would think of such a thing ? the old man exclaimed . 
He went into the kitchen , and sat down at the table waiting for his son . 
Alyosha was out on an errand , and came back breathless . 
I thought you had some sense in you but what's this you've taken into your head ? his father began . 
How , nothing ? They tell me you want to get married . 
You shall get married when the time comes . 
I'll find you a decent wife , not some town hussy . 
His father talked and talked , while Alyosha stood still and sighed . 
When his father had quite finished , Alyosha smiled . 
Now that's what I call sense . 
When he was left alone with Ustinia he told her what his father had said . 
It's no good it can't come off . 
Did you hear ? He was angry won't have it at any price . 
Ustinia cried into her apron . 
What's to be done ? We must do as we're told . 
Well , are you going to give up that nonsense , as your father told you ? his mistress asked , as he was putting up the shutters in the evening . 
To be sure we are , Alyosha replied with a smile , and then burst into tears . 
From that day Alyosha went about his work as usual , and no longer talked to Ustinia about their getting married . 
One day in Lent the clerk told him to clear the snow from the roof . 
Unfortunately he did not fall on the snow , but on a piece of iron over the door . 
Ustinia came running up , together with the merchant's daughter . 
Have you hurt yourself , Alyosha ? Ah ! no , it's nothing . 
But he could not raise himself when he tried to , and began to smile . 
He was taken into the lodge . 
The doctor arrived , examined him , and asked where he felt the pain . 
I feel it all over , he said . 
I'm only afraid master will be annoyed . 
Father ought to be told . 
Alyosha lay in bed for two days , and on the third day they sent for the priest . 
Are you really going to die ? Ustinia asked . 
You can't go on living for ever . 
You must go when the time comes . 
Alyosha spoke rapidly as usual . 
You've been very good to me . 
What a lucky thing they didn't let us marry ! Where should we have been now ? It's much better as it is . 
When the priest came , he prayed with his bands and with his heart . 
As it is good here when you obey and do no harm to others , so it will be there , was the thought within it . 
He spoke very little he only said he was thirsty , and he seemed full of wonder at something . 
He lay in wonderment , then stretched himself , and died . 
MY DREAM MY DREAM As a daughter she no longer exists for me . 
Can't you understand ? She simply doesn't exist . 
Still , I cannot possibly leave her to the charity of strangers . 
I will arrange things so that she can live as she pleases , but I do not wish to hear of her . 
Who would ever have thought . 
the horror of it , the horror of it . 
He shrugged his shoulders , shook his head , and raised his eyes . 
These words were spoken by Prince Michael Ivanovich to his brother Peter , who was governor of a province in Central Russia . 
Prince Peter was a man of fifty , Michael's junior by ten years . 
On discovering that his daughter , who had left his house a year before , had settled here with her child , the elder brother had come from St . 
Petersburg to the provincial town , where the above conversation took place . 
Prince Michael Ivanovich was a tall , handsome , white haired , fresh coloured man , proud and attractive in appearance and bearing . 
Petersburg and the younger , Lisa his favourite , who had disappeared from home a year before . 
Only a short while ago he had found her with her child in this provincial town . 
Prince Peter wanted to ask his brother how , and under what circumstances , Lisa had left home , and who could possibly be the father of her child . 
But he could not make up his mind to inquire . 
That very morning , when his wife had attempted to condole with her brother in law , Prince Peter had observed a look of pain on his brother's face . 
The look had at once been masked by an expression of unapproachable pride , and he had begun to question her about their flat , and the price she paid . 
At luncheon , before the family and guests , he had been witty and sarcastic as usual . 
Towards every one , excepting the children , whom he treated with almost reverent tenderness , he adopted an attitude of distant hauteur . 
And yet it was so natural to him that every one somehow acknowledged his right to be haughty . 
In the evening his brother arranged a game of whist . 
Who is that ? C'est moi , Michael . 
Prince Michael Ivanovich recognised the voice of his sister in law , frowned , replaced his teeth , and said to himself , What does she want ? Aloud he said , Entrez . 
His sister in law was a quiet , gentle creature , who bowed in submission to her husband's will . 
But to many she seemed a crank , and some did not hesitate to call her a fool . 
She was pretty , but her hair was always carelessly dressed , and she herself was untidy and absent minded . 
She had , also , the strangest , most unaristocratic ideas , by no means fitting in the wife of a high official . 
These ideas she would express most unexpectedly , to everybody's astonishment , her husband's no less than her friends' . 
Fous pouvez me renvoyer , mais je ne m'en irai pas , je vous le dis d'avance , she began , in her characteristic , indifferent way . 
Dieu preserve , answered her brother in law , with his usual somewhat exaggerated politeness , and brought forward a chair for her . 
Ca ne vous derange pas ? she asked , taking out a cigarette . 
I'm not going to say anything unpleasant , Michael . 
I only wanted to say something about Lisochka . 
Michael Ivanovich sighed the word pained him but mastering himself at once , he answered with a tired smile . 
Our conversation can only be on one subject , and that is the subject you wish to discuss . 
He spoke without looking at her , and avoided even naming the subject . 
But his plump , pretty little sister in law was unabashed . 
She continued to regard him with the same gentle , imploring look in her blue eyes , sighing even more deeply . 
Michael , mon bon ami , have pity on her . 
I never doubted that , said Michael Ivanovich with a bitter smile . 
For heaven's sake , let us stop . 
Then she can live her own life , and my family and I need know nothing more about her . 
That is all I can do . 
Michael , you say nothing but 'I' ! She , too , is 'I . 
No doubt but , dear Aline , please let us drop the matter . 
I feel it too deeply . 
Alexandra Dmitrievna remained silent for a few moments , shaking her head . 
And Masha , your wife , thinks as you do ? Yes , quite . 
Alexandra Dmitrievna made an inarticulate sound . 
Brisons la dessus et bonne nuit , said he . 
But she did not go . 
She stood silent a moment . 
Then , Peter tells me you intend to leave the money with the woman where she lives . 
Have you the address ? I have . 
Don't leave it with the woman , Michael ! Go yourself . 
Just see how she lives . 
If you don't want to see her , you need not . 
HE isn't there there is no one there . 
He got up , and stood waiting for her to finish . 
She held out her hand . 
Michael , you do wrong , said she , and left him . 
For a long while after she had gone Michael Ivanovich walked to and fro on the square of carpet . 
He frowned and shivered , and exclaimed , Oh , oh ! And then the sound of his own voice frightened him , and he was silent . 
His wounded pride tortured him . 
The fact that he had a natural son born of a Frenchwoman , whom he had settled abroad , did not lower his own self esteem . 
He saw her again , a little thing of eight or nine , bright , intelligent , lively , impetuous , graceful , with brilliant black eyes and flowing auburn hair . 
He was naturally opposed to all demonstration , but this impetuous love moved him , and he often submitted to her petting . 
He remembered also how sweet it was to caress her . 
To remember all this , when that sweet child had become what she now was , a creature of whom he could not think without loathing . 
He thought of his jealous love when she came coquettishly to him dressed for a ball , and knowing that she was pretty . 
He dreaded the passionate glances which fell upon her , that she not only did not understand but rejoiced in . 
Yes , thought he , that superstition of woman's purity ! Quite the contrary , they do not know shame they lack this sense . 
He remembered how , quite inexplicably to him , she had refused two very good suitors . 
She had become more and more fascinated by her own success in the round of gaieties she lived in . 
But this success could not last long . 
A year passed , then two , then three . 
She was a familiar figure , beautiful but her first youth had passed , and she had become somehow part of the ball room furniture . 
Michael Ivanovich remembered how he had realised that she was on the road to spinsterhood , and desired but one thing for her . 
He must get her married off as quickly as possible , perhaps not quite so well as might have been arranged earlier , but still a respectable match . 
But it seemed to him she had behaved with a pride that bordered on insolence . 
Remembering this , his anger rose more and more fiercely against her . 
To think of her refusing so many decent men , only to end in this disgrace . 
Oh , oh ! he groaned again . 
Then stopping , he lit a cigarette , and tried to think of other things . 
He would send her money , without ever letting her see him . 
She had driven the boy half crazy he had wept in his distraction . 
Then how she had rebuked her father severely , coldly , and even rudely , when , to put an end to this stupid affair , he had sent the boy away . 
She seemed somehow to consider herself insulted . 
Since then father and daughter had drifted into undisguised hostility . 
I was right , he said to himself . 
She is a wicked and shameless woman . 
Then the horrid recollection of the scene with his wife came to him their surmises and their suspicions , which became a certainty . 
All this came back to him now as he paced backwards and forwards on the bedroom carpet , recollecting his former love for her , his pride in her . 
He recoiled with terror before the incomprehensible fact of her downfall , and he hated her for the agony she was causing him . 
He remembered the conversation with his sister in law , and tried to imagine how he might forgive her . 
But as soon as the thought of him arose , there surged up in his heart horror , disgust , and wounded pride . 
He groaned aloud , and tried to think of something else . 
No , it is impossible I will hand over the money to Peter to give her monthly . 
And as for me , I have no longer a daughter . 
And again a curious feeling overpowered him a mixture of self pity at the recollection of his love for her , and of fury against her for causing him this anguish . 
II DURING the last year Lisa had without doubt lived through more than in all the preceding twenty five . 
Suddenly she had realised the emptiness of her whole life . 
It rose before her , base and sordid this life at home and among the rich set in St . 
Petersburg this animal existence that never sounded the depths , but only touched the shallows of life . 
It was well enough for a year or two , or perhaps even three . 
She had desperate moods when she longed to die . 
Her friends directed her thoughts to charity . 
Life became to her more and more unbearable . 
She yearned for something real , for life itself not this playing at living , not this skimming life of its cream . 
Of real life there was none . 
The best of her memories was her love for the little cadet Koko . 
That had been a good , honest , straight forward impulse , and now there was nothing like it . 
She grew more and more depressed , and in this gloomy mood she went to visit an aunt in Finland . 
The fresh scenery and surroundings , the people strangely different to her own , appealed to her at any rate as a new experience . 
How and when it all began she could not clearly remember . 
Her aunt had another guest , a Swede . 
He talked of his work , his people , the latest Swedish novel . 
Somehow , she herself did not know how that terrible fascination of glances and smiles began , the meaning of which cannot be put into words . 
These smiles and glances seemed to reveal to each , not only the soul of the other , but some vital and universal mystery . 
Every word they spoke was invested by these smiles with a profound and wonderful significance . 
Music , too , when they were listening together , or when they sang duets , became full of the same deep meaning . 
So , also , the words in the books they read aloud . 
Sometimes they would argue , but the moment their eyes met , or a smile flashed between them , the discussion remained far behind . 
They soared beyond it to some higher plane consecrated to themselves . 
How it had come about , how and when the devil , who had seized hold of them both , first appeared behind these smiles and glances , she could not say . 
But , when terror first seized her , the invisible threads that bound them were already so interwoven that she had no power to tear herself free . 
She could only count on him and on his honour . 
She hoped that he would not make use of his power yet all the while she vaguely desired it . 
Her weakness was the greater , because she had nothing to support her in the struggle . 
She was weary of society life and she had no affection for her mother . 
Her father , so she thought , had cast her away from him , and she longed passionately to live and to have done with play . 
Love , the perfect love of a woman for a man , held the promise of life for her . 
Her strong , passionate nature , too , was dragging her thither . 
And then the smiles and glances , the hope of something so incredibly beautiful , led , as they were bound to lead , to that which she feared but unconsciously awaited . 
Suddenly all that was beautiful , joyous , spiritual , and full of promise for the future , became animal and sordid , sad and despairing . 
She understood that she had not found in him what she had sought that which she had once known in herself and in Koko . 
She told him that he must write to her father asking her hand in marriage . 
This he promised to do but when she met him next he said it was impossible for him to write just then . 
She saw something vague and furtive in his eyes , and her distrust of him grew . 
She made him come to see her . 
She said she loved him that she felt herself bound to him for ever whether he was married or not , and would never leave him . 
The next time they met he told her that he and his parents were so poor that he could only offer her the meanest existence . 
She answered that she needed nothing , and was ready to go with him at once wherever he wished . 
He endeavoured to dissuade her , advising her to wait and so she waited . 
At first , when she returned to St . 
Petersburg , be wrote promising to come , and then letters ceased and she knew no more of him . 
She tried to lead her old life , but it was impossible . 
She fell ill , and the efforts of the doctors were unavailing in her hopelessness she resolved to kill herself . 
She caressed the child , and , suddenly stopping short , burst into tears . 
She began to think not of what others would say of her , but of her own life . 
She threw away the poison , and ceased to think of suicide . 
Then her life within began . 
It was real life , and despite the torture of it , had the possibility been given her , she would not have turned back from it . 
She began to pray , but there was no comfort in prayer and her suffering was less for herself than for her father , whose grief she foresaw and understood . 
Thus months dragged along , and then something happened which entirely transformed her life . 
One day , when she was at work upon a quilt , she suddenly experienced a strange sensation . 
Motionless she sat with her work in hand . 
Was it possible that this was IT . 
Forgetting everything , his baseness and deceit , her mother's querulousness , and her father's sorrow , she smiled . 
She shuddered at the recollection that she was on the point of killing it , together with herself . 
She now directed all her thoughts to getting away somewhere where she could bear her child and become a miserable , pitiful mother , but a mother withal . 
But , unfortunately , her father's brother received an appointment there , a thing she could not possibly foresee . 
III MICHAEL IVANOVICH awoke early next morning . 
He entered his brother's study , and handed him the cheque , filled in for a sum which he asked him to pay in monthly instalments to his daughter . 
He inquired when the express left for St . 
The train left at seven in the evening , giving him time for an early dinner before leaving . 
Alexandra Dmitrievna followed him into the hall . 
Go into the public gardens , Michael it is very charming there , and quite near to Everything , said she , meeting his sombre looks with a pathetic glance . 
She is not in the very least sorry for me , he thought of his sister in law . 
She cannot even understand my sorrow . 
And what of her ? He was thinking of his daughter . 
She knows what all this means to me the torture . 
What a blow in one's old age ! My days will be shortened by it ! But I'd rather have it over than endure this agony . 
Such a feeling of rage possessed him that he would have liked to beat it into her head , and make her understand what she had done . 
It is quite near Everything , suddenly came to his mind , and getting out his notebook , he found her address . 
Vera Ivanovna Silvestrova , Kukonskaya Street , Abromov's house . 
She was living under this name . 
He left the gardens and called a cab . 
Whom do you wish to see , sir ? asked the midwife , Maria Ivanovna , when he stepped on the narrow landing of the steep , stuffy staircase . 
Does Madame Silvestrova live here ? Vera Ivanovna ? Yes please come in . 
She has gone out she's gone to the shop round the corner . 
But she'll be back in a minute . 
They cut him like a knife . 
Maria Ivanovna apologised , and went into the room , and he could hear her soothing the child . 
The child became quiet , and she returned . 
That is her baby she'll be back in a minute . 
You are a friend of hers , I suppose ? Yes a friend but I think I had better come back later on , said Michael Ivanovich , preparing to go . 
It was too unbearable , this preparation to meet her , and any explanation seemed impossible . 
He had just turned to leave , when he heard quick , light steps on the stairs , and he recognised Lisa's voice . 
Maria Ivanovna has he been crying while I've been gone I was Then she saw her father . 
The parcel she was carrying fell from her hands . 
Father ! she cried , and stopped in the doorway , white and trembling . 
He remained motionless , staring at her . 
She had grown so thin . 
Her eyes were larger , her nose sharper , her hands worn and bony . 
He neither knew what to do , nor what to say . 
He forgot all his grief about his dishonour . 
He only felt sorrow , infinite sorrow for her sorrow for her thinness , and for her miserable rough clothing and most of all , for her pitiful face and imploring eyes . 
Father forgive , she said , moving towards him . 
Forgive forgive me , he murmured and he began to sob like a child , kissing her face and hands , and wetting them with his tears . 
In his pity for her he understood himself . 
He was glad that it was he who was guilty , and that he had nothing to forgive , but that he himself needed forgiveness . 
He told her that she must live differently . 
Yes if I could only live in the country , said she . 
We will talk it over , he said . 
Suddenly the child began to wail and to scream . 
She opened her eyes very wide and , not taking them from her father's face , remained hesitating and motionless . 
Well I suppose you must feed him , said Michael Ivanovich , and frowned with the obvious effort . 
She got up , and suddenly the wild idea seized her to show him whom she loved so deeply the thing she now loved best of all in the world . 
But first she looked at her father's face . 
Would he be angry or not ? His face revealed no anger , only suffering . 
Yes , go , go , said he God bless you . 
I'll come again to morrow , and we will decide . 
Good bye , my darling good bye . 
Again he found it hard to swallow the lump in his throat . 
When Michael Ivanovich returned to his brother's house , Alexandra Dmitrievna immediately rushed to him . 
Well ? Well ? Nothing . 
Have you seen ? she asked , guessing from his expression that something had happened . 
Yes , he answered shortly , and began to cry . 
I'm getting old and stupid , said he , mastering his emotion . 
No you are growing wise very wise . 
I have felt this for a long time , and as the years have passed by the feeling has grown and grown , until recently it reached its climax . 
I had not the strength . 
Perhaps that is why Providence placed me in such a position . 
I will do my best to turn it to account . 
His host was a wealthy landowner , owning some twenty five hundred acres , and had married his guest's cousin . 
Volgin , tired after an evening spent in playing vint for small stakes with A game of cards similar to auction bridge . 
His watch pointed to midnight . 
Awaking next morning at eight he put on his slippers and dressing gown , and rang the bell . 
, and whether his hosts had slept well . 
He glanced at his watch it was still early and began to wash and dress . 
Then he began to brush his hair . 
Standing in front of the mirror , he first brushed his curly beard , which was beginning to turn grey , with two English brushes , parting it down the middle . 
Then he combed his hair , which was already showing signs of getting thin , with a large tortoise shell comb . 
He thought he would go to Littleports . 
Then he must answer Simon Nicholaevich's letter but there was time enough for that . 
Getting up with an air of resolution , he took out his watch . 
It was already five minutes to nine . 
Stephen expected Volgin to remunerate him , as he said , being so accustomed to the work that he did not feel the slightest repugnance for it . 
Glancing at a mirror , and feeling satisfied with his appearance , Volgin went into the dining room . 
, a coffee pot , hot milk , cream , butter , and all sorts of fancy white bread and biscuits . 
The only persons at table were the second son of the house , his tutor , and the secretary . 
The host , who was an active member of the Zemstvo and a great farmer , had already left the house , having gone at eight o'clock to attend to his work . 
Theodorite was the grown up son of the house , and a ne'er do well . 
and his cane with its carved ivory handle , and went out . 
Leaving the flower garden Volgin entered the avenue of lime trees , hundreds of years old , which peasant girls were tidying and sweeping with spades and brooms . 
The gardener was busy measuring , and a boy was bringing something in a cart . 
Passing these Volgin went into the park of at least a hundred and twenty five acres , filled with fine old trees , and intersected by a network of well kept walks . 
Smoking as he strolled Volgin took his favourite path past the summer house into the fields beyond . 
It was pleasant in the park , but it was still nicer in the fields . 
Lucky people to live in the country , he thought . 
True , what with his farming and his Zemstvo , the owner of the estate has very little peace even in the country , but that is his own lookout . 
I shall be there every day from ten to two , sometimes even till five . 
And private interviews with clients . 
It may be a little dull , but it is not for long . 
After a stroll in Littleports he turned back , going straight across a fallow field which was being ploughed . 
A herd of cows , calves , sheep , and pigs , which belonged to the village community , was grazing there . 
The shortest way to the park was to pass through the herd . 
He frightened the sheep , which ran away one after another , and were followed by the pigs , of which two little ones stared solemnly at him . 
The shepherd boy called to the sheep and cracked his whip . 
How far behind Europe we are , thought Volgin , recalling his frequent holidays abroad . 
You would not find a single cow like that anywhere in Europe . 
When Volgin repeated his question the boy pulled himself together , and said , Ours . 
But whose is 'ours' ? said Volgin , shaking his head and smiling . 
Whose is 'ours' ? The Pirogov village herd . 
How old are you ? I don't know . 
Can you read ? No , I can't . 
Didn't you go to school ? Yes , I did . 
On approaching the house Volgin looked at his watch , and saw that it was already past eleven . 
The letter was a very important one to a friend , asking him to bid for him for a picture of the Madonna which was to be offered for sale at an auction . 
The coachman was seated on the box in a kaftan , with a silver belt , and the horses were jingling their silver bells from time to time . 
A bare headed , barefooted peasant in a ragged kaftan stood at the front door . 
Volgin asked what he wanted . 
I have come to see Nicholas Petrovich . 
What about ? Because I am in distress my horse has died . 
Volgin began to question him . 
The peasant told him how he was situated . 
He had five children , and this had been his only horse . 
What are you going to do ? To beg . 
And he knelt down , and remained kneeling in spite of Volgin's expostulations . 
What is your name ? Mitri Sudarikov , answered the peasant , still kneeling . 
Volgin took three roubles from his purse and gave them to the peasant , who showed his gratitude by touching the ground with his forehead , and then went into the house . 
His host was standing in the hall . 
Where is your letter ? he asked , approaching Volgin I am just off . 
I'm awfully sorry , I'll write it this minute , if you will let me . 
I forgot all about it . 
It's so pleasant here that one can forget anything . 
All right , but do be quick . 
The horses have already been standing a quarter of an hour , and the flies are biting viciously . 
Can you wait , Arsenty ? he asked the coachman . 
Directly , directly , Volgin went towards his room , but turned back to ask Nicholas Petrovich about the begging peasant . 
Did you see him ? He's a drunkard , but still he is to be pitied . 
Volgin read the newspapers till luncheon . 
He only read the Liberal papers The Russian Gazette , Speech , sometimes The Russian Word but he would not touch The New Times , to which his host subscribed . 
Volgin felt and knew that everything she said was stupid , but it would never do to let it be seen , and so he kept up the conversation . 
Theodorite was glum and silent the student occasionally exchanged a few words with the widow . 
Now and again there was a pause in the conversation , and then Theodorite interposed , and every one became miserably depressed . 
At such moments the hostess ordered some dish that had not been served , and the footman hurried off to the kitchen , or to the housekeeper , and hurried back again . 
Nobody felt inclined either to talk or to eat . 
But they all forced themselves to eat and to talk , and so luncheon went on . 
The peasant who had been begging because his horse had died was named Mitri Sudarikov . 
He had spent the whole day before he went to the squire over his dead horse . 
First of all he went to the knacker , Sanin , who lived in a village near . 
The knacker was out , but he waited for him , and it was dinner time when he had finished bargaining over the price of the skin . 
Then he borrowed a neighbour's horse to take his own to a field to be buried , as it is forbidden to bury dead animals near a village . 
Adrian would not lend his horse because he was getting in his potatoes , but Stephen took pity on Mitri and gave way to his persuasion . 
He even lent a hand in lifting the dead horse into the cart . 
Mitri tore off the shoes from the forelegs and gave them to his wife . 
One was broken , but the other one was whole . 
Mitri felt tired , and went into Matrena's hut , where he drank half a bottle of vodka with Sanin to console himself . 
Then he went home , quarrelled with his wife , and lay down to sleep on the hay . 
He did not undress , but slept just as he was , with a ragged coat for a coverlet . 
His wife was in the hut with the girls there were four of them , and the youngest was only five weeks old . 
Mitri woke up before dawn as usual . 
He groaned as the memory of the day before broke in upon him how the horse had struggled and struggled , and then fallen down . 
Now there was no horse , and all he had was the price of the skin , four roubles and eighty kopeks . 
Getting up he arranged the linen bands on his legs , and went through the yard into the hut . 
His wife was putting straw into the stove with one hand , with the other she was holding a baby girl to her breast , which was hanging out of her dirty chemise . 
Isn't there any water ? The girl's gone for it . 
Will you go up to the squire ? Yes , I'd better . 
The smoke from the stove made him cough . 
He took a rag off the wooden bench and went into the porch . 
The girl had just come back with the water . 
A little girl of about ten , with nothing on but a dirty shirt , came towards him . 
Good morning , Uncle Mitri , she said you are to come and thrash . 
All right , I'll come , replied Mitri . 
Tell them I'll come I'll come at lunch time . 
I've got to go to Ugrumi . 
Mitri went back to the hut , and changing his birch bark shoes and the linen bands on his legs , started off to see the squire . 
The thrashing machine was humming , and the driver was shouting . 
The lean horses were going slowly round him , straining at their traces . 
The driver was shouting to them in a monotone , Now , there , my dears . 
The work was in full swing . 
In the kitchen garden , which Mitri had to pass , a girl , clad only in a long shirt , was digging potatoes which she put into a basket . 
Where's your grandfather ? asked Mitri . 
He's in the barn Mitri went to the barn and set to work at once . 
The old man of eighty knew of Mitri's trouble . 
After greeting him , he gave him his place to feed the machine . 
The work went on without interruption until the dinner hour . 
At last the whistle of the squire's steam thrasher sounded three miles away , and then the owner came into the barn . 
He was a straight old man of eighty . 
It's time to stop , he said it's dinner time . 
Those at work seemed to redouble their efforts . 
In a moment the straw was cleared away the grain that had been thrashed was separated from the chaff and brought in , and then the workers went into the hut . 
Bread , soup , boiled potatoes , and kvass were placed on the table . 
An old one armed beggar , with a bag slung over his shoulder , came in with a crutch during the meal . 
Peace be to this house . 
A good appetite to you . 
For Christ's sake give me something . 
God will give it to you , said the mistress , already an old woman , and the daughter in law of the master . 
Don't be angry with us . 
An old man , who was still standing near the door , said , Give him some bread , Martha . 
How can you ? I am only wondering whether we shall have enough . 
Oh , it is wrong , Martha . 
God tells us to help the poor . 
The man in charge of the thrashing machine got up , said grace , thanked his hosts , and went away to rest . 
Mitri did not lie down , but ran to the shop to buy some tobacco . 
He was longing for a smoke . 
While he smoked he chatted to a man from Demensk , asking the price of cattle , as he saw that he would not be able to manage without selling a cow . 
When he returned to the others , they were already back at work again and so it went on till the evening . 
Their political enemy , N. P. , reads a liberal paper , and cannot understand the blindness of the government in allowing the union of Russian men to exist . 
Here is a kind , gentle mother of a little girl reading a story to her about Fox , a dog that lamed some rabbits . 
And here is this little girl . 
Why is this ? THE YOUNG TSAR THE YOUNG TSAR THE young Tsar had just ascended the throne . 
For five weeks he had worked without ceasing , in the way that Tsars are accustomed to work . 
He had been attending to reports , signing papers , receiving ambassadors and high officials who came to be presented to him , and reviewing troops . 
The young Tsar had arranged to have a complete rest that evening . 
The night before he had worked till very late at documents which his ministers of state had left for him to examine . 
In the morning he was present at the Te Deum , and then at a military service . 
In the afternoon he received official visitors and later he had been obliged to listen to the reports of three ministers of state , and had given his assent to many important matters . 
In his conference with the Minister of Finance he had agreed to an increase of duties on imported goods , which should in the future add many millions to the State revenues . 
Then he sanctioned the sale of brandy by the Crown in various parts of the country , and signed a decree permitting the sale of alcohol in villages having markets . 
This was also calculated to increase the principal revenue to the State , which was derived from the sale of spirits . 
He had also approved of the issuing of a new gold loan required for a financial negotiation . 
With the Minister of War he arranged for the nomination of a new Corps Commander for the raising of recruits , and for punishment of breach of discipline . 
These things kept him occupied till dinner time , and even then his freedom was not complete . 
At last the tiresome dinner was over , and the guests departed . 
His young wife had also retired to take off her dinner dress , remarking that she would join him presently . 
My wife will be here presently and will find me asleep . 
No , I must not go to sleep , he thought . 
And then what happens to all of us every day happened to him he fell asleep without knowing himself when or how . 
He passed from one state into another without his will having any share in it , without even desiring it , and without regretting the state out of which he had passed . 
He fell into a heavy sleep which was like death . 
How long he had slept he did not know , but he was suddenly aroused by the soft touch of a hand upon his shoulder . 
It is my darling , it is she , he thought . 
What a shame to have dozed off ! But it was not she . 
Before his eyes , which were wide open and blinking at the light , she , that charming and beautiful creature whom he was expecting , did not stand , but HE stood . 
Who HE was the young Tsar did not know , but somehow it did not strike him that he was a stranger whom he had never seen before . 
It seemed as if he had known him for a long time and was fond of him , and as if he trusted him as he would trust himself . 
He had expected his beloved wife , but in her stead that man whom he had never seen before had come . 
Yet to the young Tsar , who was far from feeling regret or astonishment , it seemed not only a most natural , but also a necessary thing to happen . 
Come ! said the stranger . 
But how shall we go ? he asked . 
The stranger laid his hand on the Tsar's head , and the Tsar for a moment lost consciousness . 
He could not tell whether he had been unconscious a long or a short time , but when he recovered his senses he found himself in a strange place . 
The first thing he was aware of was a strong and stifling smell of sewage . 
The place in which he stood was a broad passage lit by the red glow of two dim lamps . 
Running along one side of the passage was a thick wall with windows protected by iron gratings . 
On the other side were doors secured with locks . 
In the passage stood a soldier , leaning up against the wall , asleep . 
Through the doors the young Tsar heard the muffled sound of living human beings not of one alone , but of many . 
HE was standing at the side of the young Tsar , and pressing his shoulder slightly with his soft hand , pushed him to the first door , unmindful of the sentry . 
The young Tsar felt he could not do otherwise than yield , and approached the door . 
Close to the door , the foul smell that stifled him was stronger , and the young Tsar hesitated to go nearer , but the hand pushed him on . 
He leaned forward , put his eye close to the opening , and suddenly ceased to perceive the odour . 
The sight he saw deadened his sense of smell . 
There were over twenty men in all in the room , but in that first moment the young Tsar only saw those who were walking with quick , even , silent steps . 
Another was a Jew , hairy and gloomy . 
The third was a lean old man , bald , with a beard that had been shaven and had since grown like bristles . 
The fourth was extraordinarily heavily built , with well developed muscles , a low receding forehead and a flat nose . 
The fifth was hardly more than a boy , long , thin , obviously consumptive . 
The sixth was small and dark , with nervous , convulsive movements . 
He walked as if he were skipping , and muttered continuously to himself . 
They were all walking rapidly backwards and forwards past the hole through which the young Tsar was looking . 
He watched their faces and their gait with keen interest . 
Standing close to the door he also saw the pail which caused such an unbearable stench . 
On the shelf about ten men , entirely covered with their cloaks , were sleeping . 
A red haired man with a huge beard was sitting sideways on the shelf , with his shirt off . 
He was examining it , lifting it up to the light , and evidently catching the vermin on it . 
Another man , aged and white as snow , stood with his profile turned towards the door . 
He was praying , crossing himself , and bowing low , apparently so absorbed in his devotions as to be oblivious of all around him . 
I see this is a prison , thought the young Tsar . 
It is a dreadful life . 
But it cannot be helped . 
It is their own fault . 
But this thought had hardly come into his head before HE , who was his guide , replied to it . 
They are all here under lock and key by your order . 
They have all been sentenced in your name . 
This one he pointed to the handsome , curly headed fellow is a murderer . 
I do not consider him more guilty than those who kill in war or in duelling , and are rewarded for their deeds . 
He had neither education nor moral guidance , and his life had been cast among thieves and drunkards . 
This lessens his guilt , but he has done wrong , nevertheless , in being a murderer . 
He killed a merchant , to rob him . 
The other man , the Jew , is a thief , one of a gang of thieves . 
That uncommonly strong fellow is a horse stealer , and guilty also , but compared with others not as culpable . 
Look ! and suddenly the young Tsar found himself in an open field on a vast frontier . 
On the right were potato fields the plants had been rooted out , and were lying in heaps , blackened by the frost in alternate streaks were rows of winter corn . 
In the distance a little village with its tiled roofs was visible on the left were fields of winter corn , and fields of stubble . 
The soldier was obviously unaware of the presence of the young Tsar and his companion , and had not heard them . 
He did now turn round when the Tsar , who was standing directly over the soldier , asked , Where are we ? On the Prussian frontier , his guide answered . 
Suddenly , far away in front of them , a shot was fired . 
The soldier jumped to his feet , and seeing two men running , bent low to the ground , hastily put his tobacco into his pocket , and ran after one of them . 
Stop , or I'll shoot ! cried the soldier . 
The fugitive , without stopping , turned his head and called out something evidently abusive or blasphemous . 
At last he remained lying and did not move . 
The other fugitive , who was ahead of him , turned round and ran back to the man who was lying on the ground . 
He did something for him and then resumed his flight . 
What does all this mean ? asked the Tsar . 
These are the guards on the frontier , enforcing the revenue laws . 
That man was killed to protect the revenues of the State . 
Has he actually been killed ? The guide again laid his hand upon the head of the young Tsar , and again the Tsar lost consciousness . 
When he had recovered his senses he found himself in a small room the customs office . 
The dead body of a man , with a thin grizzled beard , an aquiline nose , and big eyes with the eyelids closed , was lying on the floor . 
His arms were thrown asunder , his feet bare , and his thick , dirty toes were turned up at right angles and stuck out straight . 
A woman stood close to the wall , so wrapped up in shawls that her face could scarcely be seen . 
Motionless she gazed at the aquiline nose , the upturned feet , and the protruding eyeballs sobbing and sighing , and drying her tears at long , regular intervals . 
A pretty girl of thirteen was standing at her mother's side , with her eyes and mouth wide open . 
A boy of eight clung to his mother's skirt , and looked intensely at his dead father without blinking . 
From a door near them an official , an officer , a doctor , and a clerk with documents , entered . 
After them came a soldier , the one who had shot the man . 
He stepped briskly along behind his superiors , but the instant he saw the corpse he went suddenly pale , and quivered and dropping his head stood still . 
When the official asked him whether that was the man who was escaping across the frontier , and at whom he had fired , he was unable to answer . 
His lips trembled , and his face twitched . 
The s s s he began , but could not get out the words which he wanted to say . 
The same , your excellency . 
The officials looked at each other and wrote something down . 
You see the beneficial results of that same system ! In a room of sumptuous vulgarity two men sat drinking wine . 
One of them was old and grey , the other a young Jew . 
The young Jew was holding a roll of bank notes in his hand , and was bargaining with the old man . 
He was buying smuggled goods . 
You've got 'em cheap , he said , smiling . 
Yes but the risk This is indeed terrible , said the young Tsar but it cannot be avoided . 
His companion made no response , saying merely , Let us move on , and laid his hand again on the head of the Tsar . 
When the Tsar recovered consciousness , he was standing in a small room lit by a shaded lamp . 
A woman was sitting at the table sewing . 
A boy of eight was bending over the table , drawing , with his feet doubled up under him in the armchair . 
A student was reading aloud . 
The father and daughter of the family entered the room noisily . 
You signed the order concerning the sale of spirits , said the guide to the Tsar . 
Well ? said the woman . 
He's not likely to live . 
What's the matter with him ? They've kept him drunk all the time . 
It's not possible ! exclaimed the wife . 
And the boy's only nine years old , that Vania Moroshkine . 
What did you do to try to save him ? asked the wife . 
I tried everything that could be done . 
I gave him an emetic and put a mustard plaster on him . 
He has every symptom of delirium tremens . 
It's no wonder the whole family are drunkards . 
Annisia is only a little better than the rest , and even she is generally more or less drunk , said the daughter . 
And what about your temperance society ? the student asked his sister . 
What can we do when they are given every opportunity of drinking ? Father tried to have the public house shut up , but the law is against him . 
If there was anything wrong in my business , the Tsar wouldn't have issued a decree authorising it . 
Isn't it terrible ? The whole village has been drunk for the last three days . 
Then , ninety nine per cent . 
of the crimes in the world are committed through its influence . 
But in our country the class which could exert that influence the Government , the Tsar and his officials simply encourage drink . 
Their main revenues are drawn from the continual drunkenness of the people . 
This time he found himself in a peasant's cottage . 
The younger peasant seized the beard of the old man and held it fast . 
For shame ! To strike your father ! I don't care , I'll kill him ! Let them send me to Siberia , I don't care ! The women were screaming . 
Drunken officials rushed into the cottage and separated father and son . 
The father had an arm broken and the son's beard was torn out . 
In the doorway a drunken girl was making violent love to an old besotted peasant . 
They are beasts ! said the young Tsar . 
Another touch of his guide's hand and the young Tsar awoke in a new place . 
It was the office of the justice of the peace . 
There was a woman in rags in the crowd who did not rise . 
The guard gave her a push . 
Asleep ! I tell you to stand up ! The woman rose . 
According to the decree of his Imperial Majesty the judge began reading the sentence . 
The case concerned that very woman . 
She had taken away half a bundle of oats as she was passing the thrashing floor of a landowner . 
The justice of the peace sentenced her to two months' imprisonment . 
The landowner whose oats had been stolen was among the audience . 
When the judge adjourned the court the landowner approached , and shook hands , and the judge entered into conversation with him . 
The next case was about a stolen samovar . 
Then there was a trial about some timber which had been cut , to the detriment of the landowner . 
Some peasants were being tried for having assaulted the constable of the district . 
Then came a new scene . 
In Siberia , a tramp is being flogged with the lash , the direct result of an order issued by the Minister of justice . 
Again oblivion , and another scene . 
The family of a Jewish watchmaker is evicted for being too poor . 
The children are crying , and the Jew , Isaaks , is greatly distressed . 
At last they come to an arrangement , and he is allowed to stay on in the lodgings . 
The chief of police takes a bribe . 
The governor of the province also secretly accepts a bribe . 
In the village , while a cow is sold for payment , the police inspector is bribed by a factory owner , who thus escapes taxes altogether . 
And again a village court scene , and a sentence carried into execution the lash ! Ilia Vasilievich , could you not spare me that ? No. The peasant burst into tears . 
Well , of course , Christ suffered , and He bids us suffer too . 
The Stundists a sect being broken up and dispersed the clergy refusing first to marry , then to bury a Protestant . 
Orders given concerning the passage of the Imperial railway train . 
Soldiers kept sitting in the mud cold , hungry , and cursing . 
Decrees issued relating to the educational institutions of the Empress Mary Department . 
Corruption rampant in the foundling homes . 
The reinforcement of the political police . 
A prison for convicts who are sentenced to be deported . 
A man being hanged for murdering a shop assistant . 
Then the result of military discipline soldiers wearing uniform and scoffing at it . 
The son of a millionaire exempted from military duty , while the only support of a large family is forced to serve . 
The university a teacher relieved of military service , while the most gifted musicians are compelled to perform it . 
Soldiers and their debauchery and the spreading of disease . 
Then a soldier who has made an attempt to desert . 
Another is on trial for striking an officer who has insulted his mother . 
He is put to death . 
Others , again , are tried for having refused to shoot . 
The runaway soldier sent to a disciplinary battalion and flogged to death . 
Another , who is guiltless , flogged , and his wounds sprinkled with salt till he dies . 
One of the superior officers stealing money belonging to the soldiers . 
Nothing but drunkenness , debauchery , gambling , and arrogance on the part of the authorities . 
On the other hand ministers , governors of provinces , covetous , ambitious , full of vanity , and anxious to inspire fear . 
But where are men with human feelings ? I will show you where they are . 
Here is the cell of a woman in solitary confinement at Schlusselburg . 
Here is another woman a girl indisposed , violated by soldiers . 
A man in exile , alone , embittered , half dead . 
A prison for convicts condemned to hard labour , and women flogged . 
Tens of thousands of the best people . 
Some shut up in prisons , others ruined by false education , by the vain desire to bring them up as we wish . 
But not succeeding in this , whatever might have been is ruined as well , for it is made impossible . 
It is as if we were trying to make buckwheat out of corn sprouts by splitting the ears . 
One may spoil the corn , but one could never change it to buckwheat . 
Thus all the youth of the world , the entire younger generation , is being ruined . 
But woe to those who destroy one of these little ones , woe to you if you destroy even one of them . 
On your soul , however , are hosts of them , who have been ruined in your name , all of those over whom your power extends . 
But what can I do ? exclaimed the Tsar in despair . 
I do not wish to torture , to flog , to corrupt , to kill any one ! I only want the welfare of all . 
Just as I yearn for happiness myself , so I want the world to be happy as well . 
If I felt myself responsible for one hundredth part of it , I would shoot myself on the spot . 
It would not be possible to live if that were true . 
But how can I put an end , to all this evil ? It is bound up with the very existence of the State . 
I am the head of the State ! What am I to do ? Kill myself ? Or abdicate ? But that would mean renouncing my duty . 
O God , O God , God , help me ! He burst into tears and awoke . 
How glad I am that it was only a dream , was his first thought . 
For the first time the young Tsar became aware of the heavy responsibility weighing on him , and was aghast . 
That is a noble idea . 
It proves the rare nobility of your spirit , said the old man . 
But forgive me for speaking frankly you are too kind to be an emperor , and you exaggerate your responsibility . 
In the first place , the state of things is not as you imagine it to be . 
The people are not poor . 
They are well to do . 
Those who are poor are poor through their own fault . 
Only the guilty are punished , and if an unavoidable mistake does sometimes occur , it is like a thunderbolt an accident , or the will of God . 
You have but one responsibility to fulfil your task courageously and to retain the power that is given to you . 
You wish the best for your people and God sees that . 
As for the errors which you have committed unwittingly , you can pray for forgiveness , and God will guide you and pardon you . 
All the more because you have done nothing that demands forgiveness , and there never have been and never will be men possessed of such extraordinary qualities as you and your father . 
What do you think about that ? the young Tsar asked his wife . 
I have a different opinion , said the clever young woman , who had been brought up in a free country . 
I am glad you had that dream , and I agree with you that there are grave responsibilities resting upon you . 
The Queen had hardly ceased to expound her views , when the old courtier began eagerly to refute her arguments , and they started a polite but very heated discussion . 
You are not only the Tsar , said the voice , but more . 
You are a human being , who only yesterday came into this world , and will perchance to morrow depart out of it . 
You are not to be guarded in your actions either by what has been or what will be , but only by what it is your own duty to do . 
He opened his eyes his wife was awakening him . 
Which of the three courses the young Tsar chose , will be told in fifty years . 
