Shelley Letter TO Mrs. Saville , England St . 
th , You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the commencement of an enterprise which you have regarded with such evil forebodings . 
I arrived here yesterday , and my first task is to assure my dear sister of my welfare and increasing confidence in the success of my undertaking . 
Do you understand this feeling ? This breeze , which has travelled from the regions towards which I am advancing , gives me a foretaste of those icy climes . 
Inspirited by this wind of promise , my daydreams become more fervent and vivid . 
I try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of frost and desolation it ever presents itself to my imagination as the region of beauty and delight . 
There , Margaret , the sun is forever visible , its broad disk just skirting the horizon and diffusing a perpetual splendour . 
Its productions and features may be without example , as the phenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are in those undiscovered solitudes . 
I shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world never before visited , and may tread a land never before imprinted by the foot of man . 
This expedition has been the favourite dream of my early years . 
I have read with ardour the accounts of the various voyages which have been made in the prospect of arriving at the North Pacific Ocean through the seas which surround the pole . 
You may remember that a history of all the voyages made for purposes of discovery composed the whole of our good Uncle Thomas' library . 
My education was neglected , yet I was passionately fond of reading . 
These visions faded when I perused , for the first time , those poets whose effusions entranced my soul and lifted it to heaven . 
You are well acquainted with my failure and how heavily I bore the disappointment . 
But just at that time I inherited the fortune of my cousin , and my thoughts were turned into the channel of their earlier bent . 
Six years have passed since I resolved on my present undertaking . 
I can , even now , remember the hour from which I dedicated myself to this great enterprise . 
I commenced by inuring my body to hardship . 
Twice I actually hired myself as an under mate in a Greenland whaler , and acquitted myself to admiration . 
Oh , that some encouraging voice would answer in the affirmative ! My courage and my resolution is firm but my hopes fluctuate , and my spirits are often depressed . 
This is the most favourable period for travelling in Russia . 
They fly quickly over the snow in their sledges the motion is pleasant , and , in my opinion , far more agreeable than that of an English stagecoach . 
I have no ambition to lose my life on the post road between St . 
If I fail , you will see me again soon , or never . 
Farewell , my dear , excellent Margaret . 
Heaven shower down blessings on you , and save me , that I may again and again testify my gratitude for all your love and kindness . 
I shall commit my thoughts to paper , it is true but that is a poor medium for the communication of feeling . 
I desire the company of a man who could sympathize with me , whose eyes would reply to mine . 
You may deem me romantic , my dear sister , but I bitterly feel the want of a friend . 
How would such a friend repair the faults of your poor brother ! I am too ardent in execution and too impatient of difficulties . 
Now I am twenty eight and am in reality more illiterate than many schoolboys of fifteen . 
KEEPING and I greatly need a friend who would have sense enough not to despise me as romantic , and affection enough for me to endeavour to regulate my mind . 
Well , these are useless complaints I shall certainly find no friend on the wide ocean , nor even here in Archangel , among merchants and seamen . 
Yet some feelings , unallied to the dross of human nature , beat even in these rugged bosoms . 
He is an Englishman , and in the midst of national and professional prejudices , unsoftened by cultivation , retains some of the noblest endowments of humanity . 
I first became acquainted with him on board a whale vessel finding that he was unemployed in this city , I easily engaged him to assist in my enterprise . 
The master is a person of an excellent disposition and is remarkable in the ship for his gentleness and the mildness of his discipline . 
This circumstance , added to his well known integrity and dauntless courage , made me very desirous to engage him . 
I heard of him first in rather a romantic manner , from a lady who owes to him the happiness of her life . 
This , briefly , is his story . 
Some years ago he loved a young Russian lady of moderate fortune , and having amassed a considerable sum in prize money , the father of the girl consented to the match . 
My generous friend reassured the suppliant , and on being informed of the name of her lover , instantly abandoned his pursuit . 
What a noble fellow ! you will exclaim . 
Yet do not suppose , because I complain a little or because I can conceive a consolation for my toils which I may never know , that I am wavering in my resolutions . 
Those are as fixed as fate , and my voyage is only now delayed until the weather shall permit my embarkation . 
The winter has been dreadfully severe , but the spring promises well , and it is considered as a remarkably early season , so that perhaps I may sail sooner than I expected . 
I shall do nothing rashly you know me sufficiently to confide in my prudence and considerateness whenever the safety of others is committed to my care . 
I cannot describe to you my sensations on the near prospect of my undertaking . 
It is impossible to communicate to you a conception of the trembling sensation , half pleasurable and half fearful , with which I am preparing to depart . 
You will smile at my allusion , but I will disclose a secret . 
I have often attributed my attachment to , my passionate enthusiasm for , the dangerous mysteries of ocean to that production of the most imaginative of modern poets . 
There is something at work in my soul which I do not understand . 
But to return to dearer considerations . 
Continue for the present to write to me by every opportunity I may receive your letters on some occasions when I need them most to support my spirits . 
I love you very tenderly . 
Remember me with affection , should you never hear from me again . 
This letter will reach England by a merchantman now on its homeward voyage from Archangel more fortunate than I , who may not see my native land , perhaps , for many years . 
No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a letter . 
Adieu , my dear Margaret . 
Be assured that for my own sake , as well as yours , I will not rashly encounter danger . 
I will be cool , persevering , and prudent . 
But success SHALL crown my endeavours . 
Wherefore not ? Thus far I have gone , tracing a secure way over the pathless seas , the very stars themselves being witnesses and testimonies of my triumph . 
Why not still proceed over the untamed yet obedient element ? What can stop the determined heart and resolved will of man ? My swelling heart involuntarily pours itself out thus . 
we were nearly surrounded by ice , which closed in the ship on all sides , scarcely leaving her the sea room in which she floated . 
Our situation was somewhat dangerous , especially as we were compassed round by a very thick fog . 
We accordingly lay to , hoping that some change would take place in the atmosphere and weather . 
About two o'clock the mist cleared away , and we beheld , stretched out in every direction , vast and irregular plains of ice , which seemed to have no end . 
We watched the rapid progress of the traveller with our telescopes until he was lost among the distant inequalities of the ice . 
This appearance excited our unqualified wonder . 
We were , as we believed , many hundred miles from any land but this apparition seemed to denote that it was not , in reality , so distant as we had supposed . 
Shut in , however , by ice , it was impossible to follow his track , which we had observed with the greatest attention . 
About two hours after this occurrence we heard the ground sea , and before night the ice broke and freed our ship . 
We , however , lay to until the morning , fearing to encounter in the dark those large loose masses which float about after the breaking up of the ice . 
I profited of this time to rest for a few hours . 
It was , in fact , a sledge , like that we had seen before , which had drifted towards us in the night on a large fragment of ice . 
Only one dog remained alive but there was a human being within it whom the sailors were persuading to enter the vessel . 
He was not , as the other traveller seemed to be , a savage inhabitant of some undiscovered island , but a European . 
When I appeared on deck the master said , Here is our captain , and he will not allow you to perish on the open sea . 
On perceiving me , the stranger addressed me in English , although with a foreign accent . 
I replied , however , that we were on a voyage of discovery towards the northern pole . 
Upon hearing this he appeared satisfied and consented to come on board . 
Good God ! Margaret , if you had seen the man who thus capitulated for his safety , your surprise would have been boundless . 
His limbs were nearly frozen , and his body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and suffering . 
I never saw a man in so wretched a condition . 
We attempted to carry him into the cabin , but as soon as he had quitted the fresh air he fainted . 
We accordingly brought him back to the deck and restored him to animation by rubbing him with brandy and forcing him to swallow a small quantity . 
As soon as he showed signs of life we wrapped him up in blankets and placed him near the chimney of the kitchen stove . 
By slow degrees he recovered and ate a little soup , which restored him wonderfully . 
Two days passed in this manner before he was able to speak , and I often feared that his sufferings had deprived him of understanding . 
When he had in some measure recovered , I removed him to my own cabin and attended on him as much as my duty would permit . 
But he is generally melancholy and despairing , and sometimes he gnashes his teeth , as if impatient of the weight of woes that oppresses him . 
Once , however , the lieutenant asked why he had come so far upon the ice in so strange a vehicle . 
His countenance instantly assumed an aspect of the deepest gloom , and he replied , To seek one who fled from me . 
And did the man whom you pursued travel in the same fashion ? Yes . 
Then I fancy we have seen him , for the day before we picked you up we saw some dogs drawing a sledge , with a man in it , across the ice . 
This aroused the stranger's attention , and he asked a multitude of questions concerning the route which the demon , as he called him , had pursued . 
Certainly it would indeed be very impertinent and inhuman in me to trouble you with any inquisitiveness of mine . 
And yet you rescued me from a strange and perilous situation you have benevolently restored me to life . 
Soon after this he inquired if I thought that the breaking up of the ice had destroyed the other sledge . 
From this time a new spirit of life animated the decaying frame of the stranger . 
I have promised that someone should watch for him and give him instant notice if any new object should appear in sight . 
Such is my journal of what relates to this strange occurrence up to the present day . 
The stranger has gradually improved in health but is very silent and appears uneasy when anyone except myself enters his cabin . 
Yet his manners are so conciliating and gentle that the sailors are all interested in him , although they have had very little communication with him . 
For my own part , I begin to love him as a brother , and his constant and deep grief fills me with sympathy and compassion . 
He must have been a noble creature in his better days , being even now in wreck so attractive and amiable . 
I shall continue my journal concerning the stranger at intervals , should I have any fresh incidents to record . 
August th , My affection for my guest increases every day . 
He excites at once my admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree . 
He is now much recovered from his illness and is continually on the deck , apparently watching for the sledge that preceded his own . 
Yet , although unhappy , he is not so utterly occupied by his own misery but that he interests himself deeply in the projects of others . 
He has frequently conversed with me on mine , which I have communicated to him without disguise . 
He entered attentively into all my arguments in favour of my eventual success and into every minute detail of the measures I had taken to secure it . 
As I spoke , a dark gloom spread over my listener's countenance . 
He asked me the history of my earlier years . 
The tale was quickly told , but it awakened various trains of reflection . 
I once had a friend , the most noble of human creatures , and am entitled , therefore , to judge respecting friendship . 
You have hope , and the world before you , and have no cause for despair . 
But I I have lost everything and cannot begin life anew . 
As he said this his countenance became expressive of a calm , settled grief that touched me to the heart . 
But he was silent and presently retired to his cabin . 
Even broken in spirit as he is , no one can feel more deeply than he does the beauties of nature . 
The starry sky , the sea , and every sight afforded by these wonderful regions seem still to have the power of elevating his soul from earth . 
Will you smile at the enthusiasm I express concerning this divine wanderer ? You would not if you saw him . 
Sometimes I have endeavoured to discover what quality it is which he possesses that elevates him so immeasurably above any other person I ever knew . 
August , Yesterday the stranger said to me , You may easily perceive , Captain Walton , that I have suffered great and unparalleled misfortunes . 
I had determined at one time that the memory of these evils should die with me , but you have won me to alter my determination . 
Prepare to hear of occurrences which are usually deemed marvellous . 
You may easily imagine that I was much gratified by the offered communication , yet I could not endure that he should renew his grief by a recital of his misfortunes . 
I felt the greatest eagerness to hear the promised narrative , partly from curiosity and partly from a strong desire to ameliorate his fate if it were in my power . 
I expressed these feelings in my answer . 
I thank you , he replied , for your sympathy , but it is useless my fate is nearly fulfilled . 
I wait but for one event , and then I shall repose in peace . 
He then told me that he would commence his narrative the next day when I should be at leisure . 
This promise drew from me the warmest thanks . 
If I should be engaged , I will at least make notes . 
My ancestors had been for many years counsellors and syndics , and my father had filled several public situations with honour and reputation . 
He was respected by all who knew him for his integrity and indefatigable attention to public business . 
As the circumstances of his marriage illustrate his character , I cannot refrain from relating them . 
One of his most intimate friends was a merchant who , from a flourishing state , fell , through numerous mischances , into poverty . 
Having paid his debts , therefore , in the most honourable manner , he retreated with his daughter to the town of Lucerne , where he lived unknown and in wretchedness . 
My father loved Beaufort with the truest friendship and was deeply grieved by his retreat in these unfortunate circumstances . 
He bitterly deplored the false pride which led his friend to a conduct so little worthy of the affection that united them . 
He lost no time in endeavouring to seek him out , with the hope of persuading him to begin the world again through his credit and assistance . 
Beaufort had taken effectual measures to conceal himself , and it was ten months before my father discovered his abode . 
Overjoyed at this discovery , he hastened to the house , which was situated in a mean street near the Reuss . 
But when he entered , misery and despair alone welcomed him . 
His daughter attended him with the greatest tenderness , but she saw with despair that their little fund was rapidly decreasing and that there was no other prospect of support . 
But Caroline Beaufort possessed a mind of an uncommon mould , and her courage rose to support her in her adversity . 
She procured plain work she plaited straw and by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to support life . 
Several months passed in this manner . 
This last blow overcame her , and she knelt by Beaufort's coffin weeping bitterly , when my father entered the chamber . 
Two years after this event Caroline became his wife . 
There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents , but this circumstance seemed to unite them only closer in bonds of devoted affection . 
There was a sense of justice in my father's upright mind which rendered it necessary that he should approve highly to love strongly . 
Perhaps during former years he had suffered from the late discovered unworthiness of one beloved and so was disposed to set a greater value on tried worth . 
Everything was made to yield to her wishes and her convenience . 
Her health , and even the tranquillity of her hitherto constant spirit , had been shaken by what she had gone through . 
From Italy they visited Germany and France . 
I , their eldest child , was born at Naples , and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles . 
I remained for several years their only child . 
Much as they were attached to each other , they seemed to draw inexhaustible stores of affection from a very mine of love to bestow them upon me . 
My mother's tender caresses and my father's smile of benevolent pleasure while regarding me are my first recollections . 
For a long time I was their only care . 
My mother had much desired to have a daughter , but I continued their single offspring . 
When I was about five years old , while making an excursion beyond the frontiers of Italy , they passed a week on the shores of the Lake of Como . 
Their benevolent disposition often made them enter the cottages of the poor . 
One day , when my father had gone by himself to Milan , my mother , accompanied by me , visited this abode . 
She found a peasant and his wife , hard working , bent down by care and labour , distributing a scanty meal to five hungry babes . 
Among these there was one which attracted my mother far above all the rest . 
She appeared of a different stock . 
The four others were dark eyed , hardy little vagrants this child was thin and very fair . 
Her hair was the brightest living gold , and despite the poverty of her clothing , seemed to set a crown of distinction on her head . 
The peasant woman , perceiving that my mother fixed eyes of wonder and admiration on this lovely girl , eagerly communicated her history . 
She was not her child , but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman . 
Her mother was a German and had died on giving her birth . 
The infant had been placed with these good people to nurse they were better off then . 
They had not been long married , and their eldest child was but just born . 
He became the victim of its weakness . 
Whether he had died or still lingered in the dungeons of Austria was not known . 
His property was confiscated his child became an orphan and a beggar . 
She continued with her foster parents and bloomed in their rude abode , fairer than a garden rose among dark leaved brambles . 
The apparition was soon explained . 
With his permission my mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to yield their charge to her . 
They were fond of the sweet orphan . 
Her presence had seemed a blessing to them , but it would be unfair to her to keep her in poverty and want when Providence afforded her such powerful protection . 
The passionate and almost reverential attachment with which all regarded her became , while I shared it , my pride and my delight . 
On the evening previous to her being brought to my home , my mother had said playfully , I have a pretty present for my Victor tomorrow he shall have it . 
All praises bestowed on her I received as made to a possession of my own . 
We called each other familiarly by the name of cousin . 
No word , no expression could body forth the kind of relation in which she stood to me my more than sister , since till death she was to be mine only . 
Chapter We were brought up together there was not quite a year difference in our ages . 
I need not say that we were strangers to any species of disunion or dispute . 
Harmony was the soul of our companionship , and the diversity and contrast that subsisted in our characters drew us nearer together . 
While my companion contemplated with a serious and satisfied spirit the magnificent appearances of things , I delighted in investigating their causes . 
The world was to me a secret which I desired to divine . 
Curiosity , earnest research to learn the hidden laws of nature , gladness akin to rapture , as they were unfolded to me , are among the earliest sensations I can remember . 
On the birth of a second son , my junior by seven years , my parents gave up entirely their wandering life and fixed themselves in their native country . 
We possessed a house in Geneva , and a campagne on Belrive , the eastern shore of the lake , at the distance of rather more than a league from the city . 
We resided principally in the latter , and the lives of my parents were passed in considerable seclusion . 
It was my temper to avoid a crowd and to attach myself fervently to a few . 
I was indifferent , therefore , to my school fellows in general but I united myself in the bonds of the closest friendship to one among them . 
Henry Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva . 
He was a boy of singular talent and fancy . 
He loved enterprise , hardship , and even danger for its own sake . 
He was deeply read in books of chivalry and romance . 
He composed heroic songs and began to write many a tale of enchantment and knightly adventure . 
No human being could have passed a happier childhood than myself . 
My parents were possessed by the very spirit of kindness and indulgence . 
We felt that they were not the tyrants to rule our lot according to their caprice , but the agents and creators of all the many delights which we enjoyed . 
When I mingled with other families I distinctly discerned how peculiarly fortunate my lot was , and gratitude assisted the development of filial love . 
I confess that neither the structure of languages , nor the code of governments , nor the politics of various states possessed attractions for me . 
Meanwhile Clerval occupied himself , so to speak , with the moral relations of things . 
The saintly soul of Elizabeth shone like a shrine dedicated lamp in our peaceful home . 
Her sympathy was ours her smile , her soft voice , the sweet glance of her celestial eyes , were ever there to bless and animate us . 
I feel exquisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of childhood , before misfortune had tainted my mind and changed its bright visions of extensive usefulness into gloomy and narrow reflections upon self . 
Natural philosophy is the genius that has regulated my fate I desire , therefore , in this narration , to state those facts which led to my predilection for that science . 
In this house I chanced to find a volume of the works of Cornelius Agrippa . 
I opened it with apathy the theory which he attempts to demonstrate and the wonderful facts which he relates soon changed this feeling into enthusiasm . 
A new light seemed to dawn upon my mind , and bounding with joy , I communicated my discovery to my father . 
It is even possible that the train of my ideas would never have received the fatal impulse that led to my ruin . 
But the cursory glance my father had taken of my volume by no means assured me that he was acquainted with its contents , and I continued to read with the greatest avidity . 
When I returned home my first care was to procure the whole works of this author , and afterwards of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus . 
I read and studied the wild fancies of these writers with delight they appeared to me treasures known to few besides myself . 
I have described myself as always having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the secrets of nature . 
In spite of the intense labour and wonderful discoveries of modern philosophers , I always came from my studies discontented and unsatisfied . 
Sir Isaac Newton is said to have avowed that he felt like a child picking up shells beside the great and unexplored ocean of truth . 
Those of his successors in each branch of natural philosophy with whom I was acquainted appeared even to my boy's apprehensions as tyros engaged in the same pursuit . 
The untaught peasant beheld the elements around him and was acquainted with their practical uses . 
The most learned philosopher knew little more . 
He had partially unveiled the face of Nature , but her immortal lineaments were still a wonder and a mystery . 
He might dissect , anatomize , and give names but , not to speak of a final cause , causes in their secondary and tertiary grades were utterly unknown to him . 
I had gazed upon the fortifications and impediments that seemed to keep human beings from entering the citadel of nature , and rashly and ignorantly I had repined . 
But here were books , and here were men who had penetrated deeper and knew more . 
I took their word for all that they averred , and I became their disciple . 
My father was not scientific , and I was left to struggle with a child's blindness , added to a student's thirst for knowledge . 
Under the guidance of my new preceptors I entered with the greatest diligence into the search of the philosopher's stone and the elixir of life but the latter soon obtained my undivided attention . 
When I was about fifteen years old we had retired to our house near Belrive , when we witnessed a most violent and terrible thunderstorm . 
It advanced from behind the mountains of Jura , and the thunder burst at once with frightful loudness from various quarters of the heavens . 
I remained , while the storm lasted , watching its progress with curiosity and delight . 
When we visited it the next morning , we found the tree shattered in a singular manner . 
It was not splintered by the shock , but entirely reduced to thin ribbons of wood . 
I never beheld anything so utterly destroyed . 
Before this I was not unacquainted with the more obvious laws of electricity . 
It seemed to me as if nothing would or could ever be known . 
All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew despicable . 
In this mood of mind I betook myself to the mathematics and the branches of study appertaining to that science as being built upon secure foundations , and so worthy of my consideration . 
Thus strangely are our souls constructed , and by such slight ligaments are we bound to prosperity or ruin . 
Her victory was announced by an unusual tranquillity and gladness of soul which followed the relinquishing of my ancient and latterly tormenting studies . 
It was thus that I was to be taught to associate evil with their prosecution , happiness with their disregard . 
It was a strong effort of the spirit of good , but it was ineffectual . 
Destiny was too potent , and her immutable laws had decreed my utter and terrible destruction . 
Chapter When I had attained the age of seventeen my parents resolved that I should become a student at the university of Ingolstadt . 
Elizabeth had caught the scarlet fever her illness was severe , and she was in the greatest danger . 
During her illness many arguments had been urged to persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her . 
She had at first yielded to our entreaties , but when she heard that the life of her favourite was menaced , she could no longer control her anxiety . 
She attended her sickbed her watchful attentions triumphed over the malignity of the distemper Elizabeth was saved , but the consequences of this imprudence were fatal to her preserver . 
On the third day my mother sickened her fever was accompanied by the most alarming symptoms , and the looks of her medical attendants prognosticated the worst event . 
On her deathbed the fortitude and benignity of this best of women did not desert her . 
She joined the hands of Elizabeth and myself . 
My children , she said , my firmest hopes of future happiness were placed on the prospect of your union . 
This expectation will now be the consolation of your father . 
Elizabeth , my love , you must supply my place to my younger children . 
She died calmly , and her countenance expressed affection even in death . 
These are the reflections of the first days but when the lapse of time proves the reality of the evil , then the actual bitterness of grief commences . 
My departure for Ingolstadt , which had been deferred by these events , was now again determined upon . 
I obtained from my father a respite of some weeks . 
It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to leave the repose , akin to death , of the house of mourning and to rush into the thick of life . 
I was new to sorrow , but it did not the less alarm me . 
I was unwilling to quit the sight of those that remained to me , and above all , I desired to see my sweet Elizabeth in some degree consoled . 
She indeed veiled her grief and strove to act the comforter to us all . 
She looked steadily on life and assumed its duties with courage and zeal . 
She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call her uncle and cousins . 
Never was she so enchanting as at this time , when she recalled the sunshine of her smiles and spent them upon us . 
She forgot even her own regret in her endeavours to make us forget . 
The day of my departure at length arrived . 
Clerval spent the last evening with us . 
He had endeavoured to persuade his father to permit him to accompany me and to become my fellow student , but in vain . 
His father was a narrow minded trader and saw idleness and ruin in the aspirations and ambition of his son . 
Henry deeply felt the misfortune of being debarred from a liberal education . 
I threw myself into the chaise that was to convey me away and indulged in the most melancholy reflections . 
I , who had ever been surrounded by amiable companions , continually engaged in endeavouring to bestow mutual pleasure I was now alone . 
In the university whither I was going I must form my own friends and be my own protector . 
My life had hitherto been remarkably secluded and domestic , and this had given me invincible repugnance to new countenances . 
I loved my brothers , Elizabeth , and Clerval these were old familiar faces , but I believed myself totally unfitted for the company of strangers . 
Such were my reflections as I commenced my journey but as I proceeded , my spirits and hopes rose . 
I ardently desired the acquisition of knowledge . 
Now my desires were complied with , and it would , indeed , have been folly to repent . 
I had sufficient leisure for these and many other reflections during my journey to Ingolstadt , which was long and fatiguing . 
At length the high white steeple of the town met my eyes . 
I alighted and was conducted to my solitary apartment to spend the evening as I pleased . 
The next morning I delivered my letters of introduction and paid a visit to some of the principal professors . 
He was an uncouth man , but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science . 
He asked me several questions concerning my progress in the different branches of science appertaining to natural philosophy . 
I replied carelessly , and partly in contempt , mentioned the names of my alchemists as the principal authors I had studied . 
Have you , he said , really spent your time in studying such nonsense ? I replied in the affirmative . 
Every minute , continued M. Krempe with warmth , every instant that you have wasted on those books is utterly and entirely lost . 
You have burdened your memory with exploded systems and useless names . 
My dear sir , you must begin your studies entirely anew . 
M. Krempe was a little squat man with a gruff voice and a repulsive countenance the teacher , therefore , did not prepossess me in favour of his pursuits . 
In rather a too philosophical and connected a strain , perhaps , I have given an account of the conclusions I had come to concerning them in my early years . 
As a child I had not been content with the results promised by the modern professors of natural science . 
Besides , I had a contempt for the uses of modern natural philosophy . 
It was very different when the masters of the science sought immortality and power such views , although futile , were grand but now the scene was changed . 
The ambition of the inquirer seemed to limit itself to the annihilation of those visions on which my interest in science was chiefly founded . 
I was required to exchange chimeras of boundless grandeur for realities of little worth . 
But as the ensuing week commenced , I thought of the information which M. Krempe had given me concerning the lectures . 
Partly from curiosity and partly from idleness , I went into the lecturing room , which M. Waldman entered shortly after . 
This professor was very unlike his colleague . 
His person was short but remarkably erect and his voice the sweetest I had ever heard . 
He began his lecture by a recapitulation of the history of chemistry and the various improvements made by different men of learning , pronouncing with fervour the names of the most distinguished discoverers . 
He then took a cursory view of the present state of the science and explained many of its elementary terms . 
They penetrate into the recesses of nature and show how she works in her hiding places . 
They ascend into the heavens they have discovered how the blood circulates , and the nature of the air we breathe . 
They have acquired new and almost unlimited powers they can command the thunders of heaven , mimic the earthquake , and even mock the invisible world with its own shadows . 
Such were the professor's words rather let me say such the words of the fate enounced to destroy me . 
I closed not my eyes that night . 
My internal being was in a state of insurrection and turmoil I felt that order would thence arise , but I had no power to produce it . 
By degrees , after the morning's dawn , sleep came . 
I awoke , and my yesternight's thoughts were as a dream . 
There only remained a resolution to return to my ancient studies and to devote myself to a science for which I believed myself to possess a natural talent . 
On the same day I paid M. Waldman a visit . 
I gave him pretty nearly the same account of my former pursuits as I had given to his fellow professor . 
He heard with attention the little narration concerning my studies and smiled at the names of Cornelius Agrippa and Paracelsus , but without the contempt that M. Krempe had exhibited . 
He said that These were men to whose indefatigable zeal modern philosophers were indebted for most of the foundations of their knowledge . 
The labours of men of genius , however erroneously directed , scarcely ever fail in ultimately turning to the solid advantage of mankind . 
any of the enthusiasm which stimulated my intended labours . 
I requested his advice concerning the books I ought to procure . 
I am happy , said M. Waldman , to have gained a disciple and if your application equals your ability , I have no doubt of your success . 
A man would make but a very sorry chemist if he attended to that department of human knowledge alone . 
If your wish is to become really a man of science and not merely a petty experimentalist , I should advise you to apply to every branch of natural philosophy , including mathematics . 
He also gave me the list of books which I had requested , and I took my leave . 
Thus ended a day memorable to me it decided my future destiny . 
Chapter From this day natural philosophy , and particularly chemistry , in the most comprehensive sense of the term , became nearly my sole occupation . 
I read with ardour those works , so full of genius and discrimination , which modern inquirers have written on these subjects . 
In M. Waldman I found a true friend . 
His gentleness was never tinged by dogmatism , and his instructions were given with an air of frankness and good nature that banished every idea of pedantry . 
In a thousand ways he smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the most abstruse inquiries clear and facile to my apprehension . 
As I applied so closely , it may be easily conceived that my progress was rapid . 
My ardour was indeed the astonishment of the students , and my proficiency that of the masters . 
Professor Krempe often asked me , with a sly smile , how Cornelius Agrippa went on , whilst M. Waldman expressed the most heartfelt exultation in my progress . 
None but those who have experienced them can conceive of the enticements of science . 
One of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted my attention was the structure of the human frame , and , indeed , any animal endued with life . 
I revolved these circumstances in my mind and determined thenceforth to apply myself more particularly to those branches of natural philosophy which relate to physiology . 
Unless I had been animated by an almost supernatural enthusiasm , my application to this study would have been irksome and almost intolerable . 
To examine the causes of life , we must first have recourse to death . 
I became acquainted with the science of anatomy , but this was not sufficient I must also observe the natural decay and corruption of the human body . 
In my education my father had taken the greatest precautions that my mind should be impressed with no supernatural horrors . 
I do not ever remember to have trembled at a tale of superstition or to have feared the apparition of a spirit . 
Now I was led to examine the cause and progress of this decay and forced to spend days and nights in vaults and charnel houses . 
My attention was fixed upon every object the most insupportable to the delicacy of the human feelings . 
Remember , I am not recording the vision of a madman . 
The sun does not more certainly shine in the heavens than that which I now affirm is true . 
Some miracle might have produced it , yet the stages of the discovery were distinct and probable . 
The astonishment which I had at first experienced on this discovery soon gave place to delight and rapture . 
After so much time spent in painful labour , to arrive at once at the summit of my desires was the most gratifying consummation of my toils . 
But this discovery was so great and overwhelming that all the steps by which I had been progressively led to it were obliterated , and I beheld only the result . 
What had been the study and desire of the wisest men since the creation of the world was now within my grasp . 
I was like the Arabian who had been buried with the dead and found a passage to life , aided only by one glimmering and seemingly ineffectual light . 
I will not lead you on , unguarded and ardent as I then was , to your destruction and infallible misery . 
When I found so astonishing a power placed within my hands , I hesitated a long time concerning the manner in which I should employ it . 
The materials at present within my command hardly appeared adequate to so arduous an undertaking , but I doubted not that I should ultimately succeed . 
Nor could I consider the magnitude and complexity of my plan as any argument of its impracticability . 
It was with these feelings that I began the creation of a human being . 
After having formed this determination and having spent some months in successfully collecting and arranging my materials , I began . 
No one can conceive the variety of feelings which bore me onwards , like a hurricane , in the first enthusiasm of success . 
Life and death appeared to me ideal bounds , which I should first break through , and pour a torrent of light into our dark world . 
A new species would bless me as its creator and source many happy and excellent natures would owe their being to me . 
No father could claim the gratitude of his child so completely as I should deserve theirs . 
renew life where death had apparently devoted the body to corruption . 
These thoughts supported my spirits , while I pursued my undertaking with unremitting ardour . 
My cheek had grown pale with study , and my person had become emaciated with confinement . 
Sometimes , on the very brink of certainty , I failed yet still I clung to the hope which the next day or the next hour might realize . 
I collected bones from charnel houses and disturbed , with profane fingers , the tremendous secrets of the human frame . 
The summer months passed while I was thus engaged , heart and soul , in one pursuit . 
You must pardon me if I regard any interruption in your correspondence as a proof that your other duties are equally neglected . 
A human being in perfection ought always to preserve a calm and peaceful mind and never to allow passion or a transitory desire to disturb his tranquillity . 
I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge is an exception to this rule . 
But I forget that I am moralizing in the most interesting part of my tale , and your looks remind me to proceed . 
My father made no reproach in his letters and only took notice of my science by inquiring into my occupations more particularly than before . 
The leaves of that year had withered before my work drew near to a close , and now every day showed me more plainly how well I had succeeded . 
Chapter It was on a dreary night of November that I beheld the accomplishment of my toils . 
The different accidents of life are not so changeable as the feelings of human nature . 
I had worked hard for nearly two years , for the sole purpose of infusing life into an inanimate body . 
For this I had deprived myself of rest and health . 
I had desired it with an ardour that far exceeded moderation but now that I had finished , the beauty of the dream vanished , and breathless horror and disgust filled my heart . 
At length lassitude succeeded to the tumult I had before endured , and I threw myself on the bed in my clothes , endeavouring to seek a few moments of forgetfulness . 
But it was in vain I slept , indeed , but I was disturbed by the wildest dreams . 
I thought I saw Elizabeth , in the bloom of health , walking in the streets of Ingolstadt . 
He held up the curtain of the bed and his eyes , if eyes they may be called , were fixed on me . 
His jaws opened , and he muttered some inarticulate sounds , while a grin wrinkled his cheeks . 
He might have spoken , but I did not hear one hand was stretched out , seemingly to detain me , but I escaped and rushed downstairs . 
Oh ! No mortal could support the horror of that countenance . 
A mummy again endued with animation could not be so hideous as that wretch . 
I passed the night wretchedly . 
Sometimes my pulse beat so quickly and hardly that I felt the palpitation of every artery at others , I nearly sank to the ground through languor and extreme weakness . 
I did not dare return to the apartment which I inhabited , but felt impelled to hurry on , although drenched by the rain which poured from a black and comfortless sky . 
I continued walking in this manner for some time , endeavouring by bodily exercise to ease the load that weighed upon my mind . 
I traversed the streets without any clear conception of where I was or what I was doing . 
Continuing thus , I came at length opposite to the inn at which the various diligences and carriages usually stopped . 
Here I paused , I knew not why but I remained some minutes with my eyes fixed on a coach that was coming towards me from the other end of the street . 
I grasped his hand , and in a moment forgot my horror and misfortune I felt suddenly , and for the first time during many months , calm and serene joy . 
I welcomed my friend , therefore , in the most cordial manner , and we walked towards my college . 
Clerval continued talking for some time about our mutual friends and his own good fortune in being permitted to come to Ingolstadt . 
But his affection for me at length overcame his dislike of learning , and he has permitted me to undertake a voyage of discovery to the land of knowledge . 
It gives me the greatest delight to see you but tell me how you left my father , brothers , and Elizabeth . 
Very well , and very happy , only a little uneasy that they hear from you so seldom . 
By the by , I mean to lecture you a little upon their account myself . 
I trembled excessively I could not endure to think of , and far less to allude to , the occurrences of the preceding night . 
I walked with a quick pace , and we soon arrived at my college . 
I then reflected , and the thought made me shiver , that the creature whom I had left in my apartment might still be there , alive and walking about . 
I dreaded to behold this monster , but I feared still more that Henry should see him . 
Entreating him , therefore , to remain a few minutes at the bottom of the stairs , I darted up towards my own room . 
My hand was already on the lock of the door before I recollected myself . 
I then paused , and a cold shivering came over me . 
I threw the door forcibly open , as children are accustomed to do when they expect a spectre to stand in waiting for them on the other side but nothing appeared . 
I stepped fearfully in the apartment was empty , and my bedroom was also freed from its hideous guest . 
We ascended into my room , and the servant presently brought breakfast but I was unable to contain myself . 
It was not joy only that possessed me I felt my flesh tingle with excess of sensitiveness , and my pulse beat rapidly . 
I was unable to remain for a single instant in the same place I jumped over the chairs , clapped my hands , and laughed aloud . 
My dear Victor , cried he , what , for God's sake , is the matter ? Do not laugh in that manner . 
Oh , save me ! Save me ! I imagined that the monster seized me I struggled furiously and fell down in a fit . 
Poor Clerval ! What must have been his feelings ? A meeting , which he anticipated with such joy , so strangely turned to bitterness . 
But I was not the witness of his grief , for I was lifeless and did not recover my senses for a long , long time . 
This was the commencement of a nervous fever which confined me for several months . 
During all that time Henry was my only nurse . 
But I was in reality very ill , and surely nothing but the unbounded and unremitting attentions of my friend could have restored me to life . 
The form of the monster on whom I had bestowed existence was forever before my eyes , and I raved incessantly concerning him . 
By very slow degrees , and with frequent relapses that alarmed and grieved my friend , I recovered . 
It was a divine spring , and the season contributed greatly to my convalescence . 
Dearest Clerval , exclaimed I , how kind , how very good you are to me . 
This whole winter , instead of being spent in study , as you promised yourself , has been consumed in my sick room . 
How shall I ever repay you ? I feel the greatest remorse for the disappointment of which I have been the occasion , but you will forgive me . 
They hardly know how ill you have been and are uneasy at your long silence . 
Chapter Clerval then put the following letter into my hands . 
You are forbidden to write to hold a pen yet one word from you , dear Victor , is necessary to calm our apprehensions . 
For a long time I have thought that each post would bring this line , and my persuasions have restrained my uncle from undertaking a journey to Ingolstadt . 
Yet that is over now Clerval writes that indeed you are getting better . 
I eagerly hope that you will confirm this intelligence soon in your own handwriting . 
Get well and return to us . 
You will find a happy , cheerful home and friends who love you dearly . 
Your father's health is vigorous , and he asks but to see you , but to be assured that you are well and not a care will ever cloud his benevolent countenance . 
How pleased you would be to remark the improvement of our Ernest ! He is now sixteen and full of activity and spirit . 
He is desirous to be a true Swiss and to enter into foreign service , but we cannot part with him , at least until his elder brother returns to us . 
My uncle is not pleased with the idea of a military career in a distant country , but Ernest never had your powers of application . 
He looks upon study as an odious fetter his time is spent in the open air , climbing the hills or rowing on the lake . 
I fear that he will become an idler unless we yield the point and permit him to enter on the profession which he has selected . 
Little alteration , except the growth of our dear children , has taken place since you left us . 
The blue lake and snow clad mountains they never change and I think our placid home and our contented hearts are regulated by the same immutable laws . 
My trifling occupations take up my time and amuse me , and I am rewarded for any exertions by seeing none but happy , kind faces around me . 
Since you left us , but one change has taken place in our little household . 
Do you remember on what occasion Justine Moritz entered our family ? Probably you do not I will relate her history , therefore in a few words . 
Madame Moritz , her mother , was a widow with four children , of whom Justine was the third . 
My aunt observed this , and when Justine was twelve years of age , prevailed on her mother to allow her to live at our house . 
The republican institutions of our country have produced simpler and happier manners than those which prevail in the great monarchies that surround it . 
Hence there is less distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants and the lower orders , being neither so poor nor so despised , their manners are more refined and moral . 
A servant in Geneva does not mean the same thing as a servant in France and England . 
My aunt conceived a great attachment for her , by which she was induced to give her an education superior to that which she had at first intended . 
Although her disposition was gay and in many respects inconsiderate , yet she paid the greatest attention to every gesture of my aunt . 
She thought her the model of all excellence and endeavoured to imitate her phraseology and manners , so that even now she often reminds me of her . 
When my dearest aunt died every one was too much occupied in their own grief to notice poor Justine , who had attended her during her illness with the most anxious affection . 
Poor Justine was very ill but other trials were reserved for her . 
One by one , her brothers and sister died and her mother , with the exception of her neglected daughter , was left childless . 
The conscience of the woman was troubled she began to think that the deaths of her favourites was a judgement from heaven to chastise her partiality . 
She was a Roman Catholic and I believe her confessor confirmed the idea which she had conceived . 
Accordingly , a few months after your departure for Ingolstadt , Justine was called home by her repentant mother . 
Nor was her residence at her mother's house of a nature to restore her gaiety . 
The poor woman was very vacillating in her repentance . 
She sometimes begged Justine to forgive her unkindness , but much oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of her brothers and sister . 
Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Moritz into a decline , which at first increased her irritability , but she is now at peace for ever . 
She died on the first approach of cold weather , at the beginning of this last winter . 
Justine has just returned to us and I assure you I love her tenderly . 
She is very clever and gentle , and extremely pretty as I mentioned before , her mein and her expression continually remind me of my dear aunt . 
I must say also a few words to you , my dear cousin , of little darling William . 
I wish you could see him he is very tall of his age , with sweet laughing blue eyes , dark eyelashes , and curling hair . 
When he smiles , two little dimples appear on each cheek , which are rosy with health . 
He has already had one or two little WIVES , but Louisa Biron is his favourite , a pretty little girl of five years of age . 
Now , dear Victor , I dare say you wish to be indulged in a little gossip concerning the good people of Geneva . 
The pretty Miss Mansfield has already received the congratulatory visits on her approaching marriage with a young Englishman , John Melbourne , Esq . 
Her ugly sister , Manon , married M. Duvillard , the rich banker , last autumn . 
Your favourite schoolfellow , Louis Manoir , has suffered several misfortunes since the departure of Clerval from Geneva . 
But he has already recovered his spirits , and is reported to be on the point of marrying a lively pretty Frenchwoman , Madame Tavernier . 
She is a widow , and much older than Manoir but she is very much admired , and a favourite with everybody . 
I have written myself into better spirits , dear cousin but my anxiety returns upon me as I conclude . 
Write , dearest Victor , one line one word will be a blessing to us . 
Ten thousand thanks to Henry for his kindness , his affection , and his many letters we are sincerely grateful . 
Adieu ! my cousin take care of your self and , I entreat you , write ! Elizabeth Lavenza . 
Geneva , March , , Dear , dear Elizabeth ! I exclaimed , when I had read her letter I will write instantly and relieve them from the anxiety they must feel . 
I wrote , and this exertion greatly fatigued me but my convalescence had commenced , and proceeded regularly . 
In another fortnight I was able to leave my chamber . 
One of my first duties on my recovery was to introduce Clerval to the several professors of the university . 
In doing this , I underwent a kind of rough usage , ill befitting the wounds that my mind had sustained . 
Ever since the fatal night , the end of my labours , and the beginning of my misfortunes , I had conceived a violent antipathy even to the name of natural philosophy . 
When I was otherwise quite restored to health , the sight of a chemical instrument would renew all the agony of my nervous symptoms . 
Henry saw this , and had removed all my apparatus from my view . 
He had also changed my apartment for he perceived that I had acquired a dislike for the room which had previously been my laboratory . 
But these cares of Clerval were made of no avail when I visited the professors . 
M. Waldman inflicted torture when he praised , with kindness and warmth , the astonishing progress I had made in the sciences . 
What could I do ? He meant to please , and he tormented me . 
I felt as if he had placed carefully , one by one , in my five those instruments which were to be afterwards used in putting me to a slow and cruel death . 
I writhed under his words , yet dared not exhibit the pain I felt . 
I thanked my friend from my heart , but I did not speak . 
D n the fellow ! cried he why , M. Clerval , I assure you he has outstript us all . 
Ay , stare if you please but it is nevertheless true . 
Ay , ay , continued he , observing my face expressive of suffering , M. Frankenstein is modest an excellent quality in a young man . 
Young men should be diffident of themselves , you know , M. Clerval I was myself when young but that wears out in a very short time . 
M. Krempe had now commenced an eulogy on himself , which happily turned the conversation from a subject that was so annoying to me . 
Clerval had never sympathized in my tastes for natural science and his literary pursuits differed wholly from those which had occupied me . 
Resolved to pursue no inglorious career , he turned his eyes toward the East , as affording scope for his spirit of enterprise . 
The Persian , Arabic , and Sanscrit languages engaged his attention , and I was easily induced to enter on the same studies . 
I did not , like him , attempt a critical knowledge of their dialects , for I did not contemplate making any other use of them than temporary amusement . 
I read merely to understand their meaning , and they well repaid my labours . 
Their melancholy is soothing , and their joy elevating , to a degree I never experienced in studying the authors of any other country . 
I felt this delay very bitterly for I longed to see my native town and my beloved friends . 
My return had only been delayed so long , from an unwillingness to leave Clerval in a strange place , before he had become acquainted with any of its inhabitants . 
The winter , however , was spent cheerfully and although the spring was uncommonly late , when it came its beauty compensated for its dilatoriness . 
Excellent friend ! how sincerely you did love me , and endeavour to elevate my mind until it was on a level with your own . 
When happy , inanimate nature had the power of bestowing on me the most delightful sensations . 
A serene sky and verdant fields filled me with ecstasy . 
The present season was indeed divine the flowers of spring bloomed in the hedges , while those of summer were already in bud . 
I was undisturbed by thoughts which during the preceding year had pressed upon me , notwithstanding my endeavours to throw them off , with an invincible burden . 
Henry rejoiced in my gaiety , and sincerely sympathised in my feelings he exerted himself to amuse me , while he expressed the sensations that filled his soul . 
At other times he repeated my favourite poems , or drew me out into arguments , which he supported with great ingenuity . 
We returned to our college on a Sunday afternoon the peasants were dancing , and every one we met appeared gay and happy . 
My own spirits were high , and I bounded along with feelings of unbridled joy and hilarity . 
But that would be a cruel kindness , and I dare not do it . 
, I , my niece , and your two brothers , went to walk in Plainpalais . 
The evening was warm and serene , and we prolonged our walk farther than usual . 
It was already dusk before we thought of returning and then we discovered that William and Ernest , who had gone on before , were not to be found . 
We accordingly rested on a seat until they should return . 
This account rather alarmed us , and we continued to search for him until night fell , when Elizabeth conjectured that he might have returned to the house . 
He was conveyed home , and the anguish that was visible in my countenance betrayed the secret to Elizabeth . 
She was very earnest to see the corpse . 
When she again lived , it was only to weep and sigh . 
She told me , that that same evening William had teased her to let him wear a very valuable miniature that she possessed of your mother . 
This picture is gone , and was doubtless the temptation which urged the murderer to the deed . 
She weeps continually , and accuses herself unjustly as the cause of his death her words pierce my heart . 
Enter the house of mourning , my friend , but with kindness and affection for those who love you , and not with hatred for your enemies . 
Your affectionate and afflicted father , Alphonse Frankenstein . 
Geneva , May th , . 
Clerval , who had watched my countenance as I read this letter , was surprised to observe the despair that succeeded the joy I at first expressed on receiving new from my friends . 
I threw the letter on the table , and covered my face with my hands . 
Tears also gushed from the eyes of Clerval , as he read the account of my misfortune . 
I can offer you no consolation , my friend , said he your disaster is irreparable . 
What do you intend to do ? To go instantly to Geneva come with my , Henry , to order the horses . 
During our walk , Clerval endeavoured to say a few words of consolation he could only express his heartfelt sympathy . 
The pang is over , his sufferings are at an end for ever . 
A sod covers his gentle form , and he knows no pain . 
He can no longer be a subject for pity we must reserve that for his miserable survivors . 
Clerval spoke thus as we hurried through the streets the words impressed themselves on my mind and I remembered them afterwards in solitude . 
But now , as soon as the horses arrived , I hurried into a cabriolet , and bade farewell to my friend . 
My journey was very melancholy . 
I could hardly sustain the multitude of feelings that crowded into my mind . 
I passed through scenes familiar to my youth , but which I had not seen for nearly six years . 
Fear overcame me I dared no advance , dreading a thousand nameless evils that made me tremble , although I was unable to define them . 
I remained two days at Lausanne , in this painful state of mind . 
I contemplated the lake the waters were placid all around was calm and the snowy mountains , the palaces of nature , were not changed . 
By degrees the calm and heavenly scene restored me , and I continued my journey towards Geneva . 
The road ran by the side of the lake , which became narrower as I approached my native town . 
I discovered more distinctly the black sides of Jura , and the bright summit of Mont Blanc . 
I wept like a child . 
Dear mountains ! my own beautiful lake ! how do you welcome your wanderer ? Your summits are clear the sky and lake are blue and placid . 
Night also closed around and when I could hardly see the dark mountains , I felt still more gloomily . 
The picture appeared a vast and dim scene of evil , and I foresaw obscurely that I was destined to become the most wretched of human beings . 
The sky was serene and , as I was unable to rest , I resolved to visit the spot where my poor William had been murdered . 
As I could not pass through the town , I was obliged to cross the lake in a boat to arrive at Plainpalais . 
During this short voyage I saw the lightning playing on the summit of Mont Blanc in the most beautiful figures . 
The storm appeared to approach rapidly , and , on landing , I ascended a low hill , that I might observe its progress . 
It advanced the heavens were clouded , and I soon felt the rain coming slowly in large drops , but its violence quickly increased . 
I quitted my seat , and walked on , although the darkness and storm increased every minute , and the thunder burst with a terrific crash over my head . 
The storm , as is often the case in Switzerland , appeared at once in various parts of the heavens . 
The most violent storm hung exactly north of the town , over the part of the lake which lies between the promontory of Belrive and the village of Copet . 
Another storm enlightened Jura with faint flashes and another darkened and sometimes disclosed the Mole , a peaked mountain to the east of the lake . 
While I watched the tempest , so beautiful yet terrific , I wandered on with a hasty step . 
The figure passed me quickly , and I lost it in the gloom . 
Nothing in human shape could have destroyed the fair child . 
HE was the murderer ! I could not doubt it . 
The mere presence of the idea was an irresistible proof of the fact . 
He soon reached the summit , and disappeared . 
The thunder ceased but the rain still continued , and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable darkness . 
But I did not feel the inconvenience of the weather my imagination was busy in scenes of evil and despair . 
Day dawned and I directed my steps towards the town . 
The gates were open , and I hastened to my father's house . 
My first thought was to discover what I knew of the murderer , and cause instant pursuit to be made . 
But I paused when I reflected on the story that I had to tell . 
A being whom I myself had formed , and endued with life , had met me at midnight among the precipices of an inaccessible mountain . 
I well knew that if any other had communicated such a relation to me , I should have looked upon it as the ravings of insanity . 
Besides , the strange nature of the animal would elude all pursuit , even if I were so far credited as to persuade my relatives to commence it . 
It was about five in the morning when I entered my father's house . 
I told the servants not to disturb the family , and went into the library to attend their usual hour of rising . 
Beloved and venerable parent ! He still remained to me . 
I gazed on the picture of my mother , which stood over the mantel piece . 
It was an historical subject , painted at my father's desire , and represented Caroline Beaufort in an agony of despair , kneeling by the coffin of her dead father . 
Her garb was rustic , and her cheek pale but there was an air of dignity and beauty , that hardly permitted the sentiment of pity . 
Below this picture was a miniature of William and my tears flowed when I looked upon it . 
While I was thus engaged , Ernest entered he had heard me arrive , and hastened to welcome me Welcome , my dearest Victor , said he . 
Ah ! I wish you had come three months ago , and then you would have found us all joyous and delighted . 
Poor William ! he was our darling and our pride ! Tears , unrestrained , fell from my brother's eyes a sense of mortal agony crept over my frame . 
Before , I had only imagined the wretchedness of my desolated home the reality came on me as a new , and a not less terrible , disaster . 
I tried to calm Ernest I enquired more minutely concerning my father , and her I named my cousin . 
She most of all , said Ernest , requires consolation she accused herself of having caused the death of my brother , and that made her very wretched . 
No one would believe it at first and even now Elizabeth will not be convinced , notwithstanding all the evidence . 
But she will be tried today , and you will then hear all . 
He then related that , the morning on which the murder of poor William had been discovered , Justine had been taken ill , and confined to her bed for several days . 
On being charged with the fact , the poor girl confirmed the suspicion in a great measure by her extreme confusion of manner . 
This was a strange tale , but it did not shake my faith and I replied earnestly , You are all mistaken I know the murderer . 
Justine , poor , good Justine , is innocent . 
At that instant my father entered . 
My dear father , you are mistaken Justine is innocent . 
If she is , God forbid that she should suffer as guilty . 
She is to be tried today , and I hope , I sincerely hope , that she will be acquitted . 
I was firmly convinced in my own mind that Justine , and indeed every human being , was guiltless of this murder . 
I had no fear , therefore , that any circumstantial evidence could be brought forward strong enough to convict her . 
My tale was not one to announce publicly its astounding horror would be looked upon as madness by the vulgar . 
Time had altered her since I last beheld her it had endowed her with loveliness surpassing the beauty of her childish years . 
There was the same candour , the same vivacity , but it was allied to an expression more full of sensibility and intellect . 
She welcomed me with the greatest affection . 
Your arrival , my dear cousin , said she , fills me with hope . 
You perhaps will find some means to justify my poor guiltless Justine . 
Alas ! who is safe , if she be convicted of crime ? I rely on her innocence as certainly as I do upon my own . 
If she is condemned , I never shall know joy more . 
But she will not , I am sure she will not and then I shall be happy again , even after the sad death of my little William . 
She is innocent , my Elizabeth , said I , and that shall be proved fear nothing , but let your spirits be cheered by the assurance of her acquittal . 
Dearest niece , said my father , dry your tears . 
If she is , as you believe , innocent , rely on the justice of our laws , and the activity with which I shall prevent the slightest shadow of partiality . 
Chapter We passed a few sad hours until eleven o'clock , when the trial was to commence . 
My father and the rest of the family being obliged to attend as witnesses , I accompanied them to the court . 
During the whole of this wretched mockery of justice I suffered living torture . 
The appearance of Justine was calm . 
She was dressed in mourning , and her countenance , always engaging , was rendered , by the solemnity of her feelings , exquisitely beautiful . 
When she entered the court she threw her eyes round it and quickly discovered where we were seated . 
A tear seemed to dim her eye when she saw us , but she quickly recovered herself , and a look of sorrowful affection seemed to attest her utter guiltlessness . 
The trial began , and after the advocate against her had stated the charge , several witnesses were called . 
Several strange facts combined against her , which might have staggered anyone who had not such proof of her innocence as I had . 
The woman asked her what she did there , but she looked very strangely and only returned a confused and unintelligible answer . 
When shown the body , she fell into violent hysterics and kept her bed for several days . 
Justine was called on for her defence . 
As the trial had proceeded , her countenance had altered . 
Surprise , horror , and misery were strongly expressed . 
Sometimes she struggled with her tears , but when she was desired to plead , she collected her powers and spoke in an audible although variable voice . 
God knows , she said , how entirely I am innocent . 
On her return , at about nine o'clock , she met a man who asked her if she had seen anything of the child who was lost . 
Most of the night she spent here watching towards morning she believed that she slept for a few minutes some steps disturbed her , and she awoke . 
It was dawn , and she quitted her asylum , that she might again endeavour to find my brother . 
If she had gone near the spot where his body lay , it was without her knowledge . 
That she had been bewildered when questioned by the market woman was not surprising , since she had passed a sleepless night and the fate of poor William was yet uncertain . 
Concerning the picture she could give no account . 
But here also I am checked . 
I believe that I have no enemy on earth , and none surely would have been so wicked as to destroy me wantonly . 
Elizabeth saw even this last resource , her excellent dispositions and irreproachable conduct , about to fail the accused , when , although violently agitated , she desired permission to address the court . 
I am well acquainted with the accused . 
I have lived in the same house with her , at one time for five and at another for nearly two years . 
During all that period she appeared to me the most amiable and benevolent of human creatures . 
She was warmly attached to the child who is now dead and acted towards him like a most affectionate mother . 
For my own part , I do not hesitate to say that , notwithstanding all the evidence produced against her , I believe and rely on her perfect innocence . 
She herself wept as Elizabeth spoke , but she did not answer . 
My own agitation and anguish was extreme during the whole trial . 
I believed in her innocence I knew it . 
The tortures of the accused did not equal mine she was sustained by innocence , but the fangs of remorse tore my bosom and would not forgo their hold . 
I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness . 
In the morning I went to the court my lips and throat were parched . 
I dared not ask the fatal question , but I was known , and the officer guessed the cause of my visit . 
The ballots had been thrown they were all black , and Justine was condemned . 
I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt . 
The person to whom I addressed myself added that Justine had already confessed her guilt . 
My cousin , replied I , it is decided as you may have expected all judges had rather that ten innocent should suffer than that one guilty should escape . 
This was a dire blow to poor Elizabeth , who had relied with firmness upon Justine's innocence . 
Soon after we heard that the poor victim had expressed a desire to see my cousin . 
My father wished her not to go but said that he left it to her own judgment and feelings to decide . 
Yes , said Elizabeth , I will go , although she is guilty and you , Victor , shall accompany me I cannot go alone . 
The idea of this visit was torture to me , yet I could not refuse . 
We entered the gloomy prison chamber and beheld Justine sitting on some straw at the farther end her hands were manacled , and her head rested on her knees . 
She rose on seeing us enter , and when we were left alone with her , she threw herself at the feet of Elizabeth , weeping bitterly . 
Oh , Justine ! said she . 
Why did you rob me of my last consolation ? I relied on your innocence , and although I was then very wretched , I was not so miserable as I am now . 
That report , you say , is false and be assured , dear Justine , that nothing can shake my confidence in you for a moment , but your own confession . 
I did confess , but I confessed a lie . 
I confessed , that I might obtain absolution but now that falsehood lies heavier at my heart than all my other sins . 
He threatened excommunication and hell fire in my last moments if I continued obdurate . 
Dear lady , I had none to support me all looked on me as a wretch doomed to ignominy and perdition . 
What could I do ? In an evil hour I subscribed to a lie and now only am I truly miserable . 
Oh , Justine ! Forgive me for having for one moment distrusted you . 
Why did you confess ? But do not mourn , dear girl . 
I will proclaim , I will prove your innocence . 
I will melt the stony hearts of your enemies by my tears and prayers . 
You shall not die ! You , my playfellow , my companion , my sister , perish on the scaffold ! No ! No ! I never could survive so horrible a misfortune . 
Justine shook her head mournfully . 
I do not fear to die , she said that pang is past . 
God raises my weakness and gives me courage to endure the worst . 
I leave a sad and bitter world and if you remember me and think of me as of one unjustly condemned , I am resigned to the fate awaiting me . 
I gnashed my teeth and ground them together , uttering a groan that came from my inmost soul . 
No , Justine , said Elizabeth he is more convinced of your innocence than I was , for even when he heard that you had confessed , he did not credit it . 
In these last moments I feel the sincerest gratitude towards those who think of me with kindness . 
Thus the poor sufferer tried to comfort others and herself . 
She indeed gained the resignation she desired . 
But I , the true murderer , felt the never dying worm alive in my bosom , which allowed of no hope or consolation . 
Anguish and despair had penetrated into the core of my heart I bore a hell within me which nothing could extinguish . 
We stayed several hours with Justine , and it was with great difficulty that Elizabeth could tear herself away . 
I wish , cried she , that I were to die with you I cannot live in this world of misery . 
Justine assumed an air of cheerfulness , while she with difficulty repressed her bitter tears . 
And on the morrow Justine died . 
Elizabeth's heart rending eloquence failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the criminality of the saintly sufferer . 
My passionate and indignant appeals were lost upon them . 
And when I received their cold answers and heard the harsh , unfeeling reasoning of these men , my purposed avowal died away on my lips . 
Thus I might proclaim myself a madman , but not revoke the sentence passed upon my wretched victim . 
She perished on the scaffold as a murderess ! From the tortures of my own heart , I turned to contemplate the deep and voiceless grief of my Elizabeth . 
Justine died , she rested , and I was alive . 
The blood flowed freely in my veins , but a weight of despair and remorse pressed on my heart which nothing could remove . 
Sleep fled from my eyes I wandered like an evil spirit , for I had committed deeds of mischief beyond description horrible , and more , much more was yet behind . 
Yet my heart overflowed with kindness and the love of virtue . 
I had begun life with benevolent intentions and thirsted for the moment when I should put them in practice and make myself useful to my fellow beings . 
This state of mind preyed upon my health , which had perhaps never entirely recovered from the first shock it had sustained . 
I shunned the face of man all sound of joy or complacency was torture to me solitude was my only consolation deep , dark , deathlike solitude . 
Now I could only answer my father with a look of despair and endeavour to hide myself from his view . 
About this time we retired to our house at Belrive . 
This change was particularly agreeable to me . 
The shutting of the gates regularly at ten o'clock and the impossibility of remaining on the lake after that hour had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva very irksome to me . 
Often , after the rest of the family had retired for the night , I took the boat and passed many hours upon the water . 
But I was restrained , when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth , whom I tenderly loved , and whose existence was bound up in mine . 
But that could not be . 
I had been the author of unalterable evils , and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I had created should perpetrate some new wickedness . 
I had an obscure feeling that all was not over and that he would still commit some signal crime , which by its enormity should almost efface the recollection of the past . 
There was always scope for fear so long as anything I loved remained behind . 
My abhorrence of this fiend cannot be conceived . 
When I thought of him I gnashed my teeth , my eyes became inflamed , and I ardently wished to extinguish that life which I had so thoughtlessly bestowed . 
When I reflected on his crimes and malice , my hatred and revenge burst all bounds of moderation . 
I would have made a pilgrimage to the highest peak of the Andes , could I when there have precipitated him to their base . 
I wished to see him again , that I might wreak the utmost extent of abhorrence on his head and avenge the deaths of William and Justine . 
Our house was the house of mourning . 
My father's health was deeply shaken by the horror of the recent events . 
She was no longer that happy creature who in earlier youth wandered with me on the banks of the lake and talked with ecstasy of our future prospects . 
The first of those sorrows which are sent to wean us from the earth had visited her , and its dimming influence quenched her dearest smiles . 
Yet I am certainly unjust . 
Everybody believed that poor girl to be guilty and if she could have committed the crime for which she suffered , assuredly she would have been the most depraved of human creatures . 
I know , I feel she was innocent you are of the same opinion , and that confirms me . 
William and Justine were assassinated , and the murderer escapes he walks about the world free , and perhaps respected . 
But even if I were condemned to suffer on the scaffold for the same crimes , I would not change places with such a wretch . 
I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony . 
I , not in deed , but in effect , was the true murderer . 
Elizabeth read my anguish in my countenance , and kindly taking my hand , said , My dearest friend , you must calm yourself . 
These events have affected me , God knows how deeply but I am not so wretched as you are . 
There is an expression of despair , and sometimes of revenge , in your countenance that makes me tremble . 
Dear Victor , banish these dark passions . 
Remember the friends around you , who centre all their hopes in you . 
Thus not the tenderness of friendship , nor the beauty of earth , nor of heaven , could redeem my soul from woe the very accents of love were ineffectual . 
I was encompassed by a cloud which no beneficial influence could penetrate . 
The wounded deer dragging its fainting limbs to some untrodden brake , there to gaze upon the arrow which had pierced it , and to die , was but a type of me . 
My wanderings were directed towards the valley of Chamounix . 
I had visited it frequently during my boyhood . 
Six years had passed since then I was a wreck , but nought had changed in those savage and enduring scenes . 
I performed the first part of my journey on horseback . 
I afterwards hired a mule , as the more sure footed and least liable to receive injury on these rugged roads . 
The weight upon my spirit was sensibly lightened as I plunged yet deeper in the ravine of Arve . 
Still , as I ascended higher , the valley assumed a more magnificent and astonishing character . 
Ruined castles hanging on the precipices of piny mountains , the impetuous Arve , and cottages every here and there peeping forth from among the trees formed a scene of singular beauty . 
I passed the bridge of Pelissier , where the ravine , which the river forms , opened before me , and I began to ascend the mountain that overhangs it . 
Soon after , I entered the valley of Chamounix . 
This valley is more wonderful and sublime , but not so beautiful and picturesque as that of Servox , through which I had just passed . 
The high and snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries , but I saw no more ruined castles and fertile fields . 
Immense glaciers approached the road I heard the rumbling thunder of the falling avalanche and marked the smoke of its passage . 
Mont Blanc , the supreme and magnificent Mont Blanc , raised itself from the surrounding aiguilles , and its tremendous dome overlooked the valley . 
A tingling long lost sense of pleasure often came across me during this journey . 
Some turn in the road , some new object suddenly perceived and recognized , reminded me of days gone by , and were associated with the lighthearted gaiety of boyhood . 
The very winds whispered in soothing accents , and maternal Nature bade me weep no more . 
Then again the kindly influence ceased to act I found myself fettered again to grief and indulging in all the misery of reflection . 
At length I arrived at the village of Chamounix . 
Exhaustion succeeded to the extreme fatigue both of body and of mind which I had endured . 
Chapter I spent the following day roaming through the valley . 
These sublime and magnificent scenes afforded me the greatest consolation that I was capable of receiving . 
They elevated me from all littleness of feeling , and although they did not remove my grief , they subdued and tranquillized it . 
In some degree , also , they diverted my mind from the thoughts over which it had brooded for the last month . 
I retired to rest at night my slumbers , as it were , waited on and ministered to by the assemblance of grand shapes which I had contemplated during the day . 
Where had they fled when the next morning I awoke ? All of soul inspiriting fled with sleep , and dark melancholy clouded every thought . 
The rain was pouring in torrents , and thick mists hid the summits of the mountains , so that I even saw not the faces of those mighty friends . 
Still I would penetrate their misty veil and seek them in their cloudy retreats . 
What were rain and storm to me ? My mule was brought to the door , and I resolved to ascend to the summit of Montanvert . 
I remembered the effect that the view of the tremendous and ever moving glacier had produced upon my mind when I first saw it . 
It had then filled me with a sublime ecstasy that gave wings to the soul and allowed it to soar from the obscure world to light and joy . 
The sight of the awful and majestic in nature had indeed always the effect of solemnizing my mind and causing me to forget the passing cares of life . 
I determined to go without a guide , for I was well acquainted with the path , and the presence of another would destroy the solitary grandeur of the scene . 
The ascent is precipitous , but the path is cut into continual and short windings , which enable you to surmount the perpendicularity of the mountain . 
It is a scene terrifically desolate . 
The pines are not tall or luxuriant , but they are sombre and add an air of severity to the scene . 
Alas ! Why does man boast of sensibilities superior to those apparent in the brute it only renders them more necessary beings . 
We rest a dream has power to poison sleep . 
We rise one wand'ring thought pollutes the day . 
Man's yesterday may ne'er be like his morrow Nought may endure but mutability ! It was nearly noon when I arrived at the top of the ascent . 
For some time I sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice . 
A mist covered both that and the surrounding mountains . 
Presently a breeze dissipated the cloud , and I descended upon the glacier . 
The surface is very uneven , rising like the waves of a troubled sea , descending low , and interspersed by rifts that sink deep . 
The field of ice is almost a league in width , but I spent nearly two hours in crossing it . 
The opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock . 
From the side where I now stood Montanvert was exactly opposite , at the distance of a league and above it rose Mont Blanc , in awful majesty . 
I remained in a recess of the rock , gazing on this wonderful and stupendous scene . 
The sea , or rather the vast river of ice , wound among its dependent mountains , whose aerial summits hung over its recesses . 
Their icy and glittering peaks shone in the sunlight over the clouds . 
As I said this I suddenly beheld the figure of a man , at some distance , advancing towards me with superhuman speed . 
He bounded over the crevices in the ice , among which I had walked with caution his stature , also , as he approached , seemed to exceed that of man . 
I was troubled a mist came over my eyes , and I felt a faintness seize me , but I was quickly restored by the cold gale of the mountains . 
that it was the wretch whom I had created . 
I trembled with rage and horror , resolving to wait his approach and then close with him in mortal combat . 
He approached his countenance bespoke bitter anguish , combined with disdain and malignity , while its unearthly ugliness rendered it almost too horrible for human eyes . 
But I scarcely observed this rage and hatred had at first deprived me of utterance , and I recovered only to overwhelm him with words expressive of furious detestation and contempt . 
You purpose to kill me . 
How dare you sport thus with life ? Do your duty towards me , and I will do mine towards you and the rest of mankind . 
Abhorred monster ! Fiend that thou art ! The tortures of hell are too mild a vengeance for thy crimes . 
Wretched devil ! You reproach me with your creation , come on , then , that I may extinguish the spark which I so negligently bestowed . 
My rage was without bounds I sprang on him , impelled by all the feelings which can arm one being against the existence of another . 
He easily eluded me and said , Be calm ! I entreat you to hear me before you give vent to your hatred on my devoted head . 
Remember , thou hast made me more powerful than thyself my height is superior to thine , my joints more supple . 
But I will not be tempted to set myself in opposition to thee . 
I am thy creature , and I will be even mild and docile to my natural lord and king if thou wilt also perform thy part , the which thou owest me . 
Oh , Frankenstein , be not equitable to every other and trample upon me alone , to whom thy justice , and even thy clemency and affection , is most due . 
Remember that I am thy creature I ought to be thy Adam , but I am rather the fallen angel , whom thou drivest from joy for no misdeed . 
Everywhere I see bliss , from which I alone am irrevocably excluded . 
I was benevolent and good misery made me a fiend . 
Make me happy , and I shall again be virtuous . 
Begone ! I will not hear you . 
There can be no community between you and me we are enemies . 
Begone , or let us try our strength in a fight , in which one must fall . 
The desert mountains and dreary glaciers are my refuge . 
I have wandered here many days the caves of ice , which I only do not fear , are a dwelling to me , and the only one which man does not grudge . 
These bleak skies I hail , for they are kinder to me than your fellow beings . 
If the multitude of mankind knew of my existence , they would do as you do , and arm themselves for my destruction . 
Shall I not then hate them who abhor me ? I will keep no terms with my enemies . 
I am miserable , and they shall share my wretchedness . 
Let your compassion be moved , and do not disdain me . 
Listen to my tale when you have heard that , abandon or commiserate me , as you shall judge that I deserve . 
The guilty are allowed , by human laws , bloody as they are , to speak in their own defence before they are condemned . 
Listen to me , Frankenstein . 
You accuse me of murder , and yet you would , with a satisfied conscience , destroy your own creature . 
be the hands that formed you ! You have made me wretched beyond expression . 
You have left me no power to consider whether I am just to you or not . 
Begone ! Relieve me from the sight of your detested form . 
Still thou canst listen to me and grant me thy compassion . 
By the virtues that I once possessed , I demand this from you . 
Hear my tale it is long and strange , and the temperature of this place is not fitting to your fine sensations come to the hut upon the mountain . 
The sun is yet high in the heavens before it descends to hide itself behind your snowy precipices and illuminate another world , you will have heard my story and can decide . 
As he said this he led the way across the ice I followed . 
I was partly urged by curiosity , and compassion confirmed my resolution . 
I had hitherto supposed him to be the murderer of my brother , and I eagerly sought a confirmation or denial of this opinion . 
These motives urged me to comply with his demand . 
We crossed the ice , therefore , and ascended the opposite rock . 
The air was cold , and the rain again began to descend we entered the hut , the fiend with an air of exultation , I with a heavy heart and depressed spirits . 
But I consented to listen , and seating myself by the fire which my odious companion had lighted , he thus began his tale . 
Chapter It is with considerable difficulty that I remember the original era of my being all the events of that period appear confused and indistinct . 
By degrees , I remember , a stronger light pressed upon my nerves , so that I was obliged to shut my eyes . 
I walked and , I believe , descended , but I presently found a great alteration in my sensations . 
The light became more and more oppressive to me , and the heat wearying me as I walked , I sought a place where I could receive shade . 
This was the forest near Ingolstadt and here I lay by the side of a brook resting from my fatigue , until I felt tormented by hunger and thirst . 
This roused me from my nearly dormant state , and I ate some berries which I found hanging on the trees or lying on the ground . 
I slaked my thirst at the brook , and then lying down , was overcome by sleep . 
It was dark when I awoke I felt cold also , and half frightened , as it were , instinctively , finding myself so desolate . 
Before I had quitted your apartment , on a sensation of cold , I had covered myself with some clothes , but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of night . 
I was a poor , helpless , miserable wretch I knew , and could distinguish , nothing but feeling pain invade me on all sides , I sat down and wept . 
Soon a gentle light stole over the heavens and gave me a sensation of pleasure . 
I started up and beheld a radiant form rise from among the trees . 
The moon I gazed with a kind of wonder . 
It moved slowly , but it enlightened my path , and I again went out in search of berries . 
I was still cold when under one of the trees I found a huge cloak , with which I covered myself , and sat down upon the ground . 
No distinct ideas occupied my mind all was confused . 
Several changes of day and night passed , and the orb of night had greatly lessened , when I began to distinguish my sensations from each other . 
I gradually saw plainly the clear stream that supplied me with drink and the trees that shaded me with their foliage . 
I began also to observe , with greater accuracy , the forms that surrounded me and to perceive the boundaries of the radiant roof of light which canopied me . 
Sometimes I tried to imitate the pleasant songs of the birds but was unable . 
Sometimes I wished to express my sensations in my own mode , but the uncouth and inarticulate sounds which broke from me frightened me into silence again . 
The moon had disappeared from the night , and again , with a lessened form , showed itself , while I still remained in the forest . 
My sensations had by this time become distinct , and my mind received every day additional ideas . 
My eyes became accustomed to the light and to perceive objects in their right forms I distinguished the insect from the herb , and by degrees , one herb from another . 
I found that the sparrow uttered none but harsh notes , whilst those of the blackbird and thrush were sweet and enticing . 
In my joy I thrust my hand into the live embers , but quickly drew it out again with a cry of pain . 
I quickly collected some branches , but they were wet and would not burn . 
I was pained at this and sat still watching the operation of the fire . 
The wet wood which I had placed near the heat dried and itself became inflamed . 
When night came on and brought sleep with it , I was in the greatest fear lest my fire should be extinguished . 
I covered it carefully with dry wood and leaves and placed wet branches upon it and then , spreading my cloak , I lay on the ground and sank into sleep . 
It was morning when I awoke , and my first care was to visit the fire . 
I uncovered it , and a gentle breeze quickly fanned it into a flame . 
I observed this also and contrived a fan of branches , which roused the embers when they were nearly extinguished . 
I tried , therefore , to dress my food in the same manner , placing it on the live embers . 
I found that the berries were spoiled by this operation , and the nuts and roots much improved . 
Food , however , became scarce , and I often spent the whole day searching in vain for a few acorns to assuage the pangs of hunger . 
When I found this , I resolved to quit the place that I had hitherto inhabited , to seek for one where the few wants I experienced would be more easily satisfied . 
In this emigration I exceedingly lamented the loss of the fire which I had obtained through accident and knew not how to reproduce it . 
I passed three days in these rambles and at length discovered the open country . 
This was a new sight to me , and I examined the structure with great curiosity . 
Finding the door open , I entered . 
An old man sat in it , near a fire , over which he was preparing his breakfast . 
His appearance , different from any I had ever before seen , and his flight somewhat surprised me . 
I greedily devoured the remnants of the shepherd's breakfast , which consisted of bread , cheese , milk , and wine the latter , however , I did not like . 
Then , overcome by fatigue , I lay down among some straw and fell asleep . 
How miraculous did this appear ! The huts , the neater cottages , and stately houses engaged my admiration by turns . 
The vegetables in the gardens , the milk and cheese that I saw placed at the windows of some of the cottages , allured my appetite . 
One of the best of these I entered , but I had hardly placed my foot within the door before the children shrieked , and one of the women fainted . 
This hovel however , joined a cottage of a neat and pleasant appearance , but after my late dearly bought experience , I dared not enter it . 
My place of refuge was constructed of wood , but so low that I could with difficulty sit upright in it . 
As soon as morning dawned I crept from my kennel , that I might view the adjacent cottage and discover if I could remain in the habitation I had found . 
It was situated against the back of the cottage and surrounded on the sides which were exposed by a pig sty and a clear pool of water . 
The floor was a little raised , so that it was kept perfectly dry , and by its vicinity to the chimney of the cottage it was tolerably warm . 
Being thus provided , I resolved to reside in this hovel until something should occur which might alter my determination . 
It was indeed a paradise compared to the bleak forest , my former residence , the rain dropping branches , and dank earth . 
The girl was young and of gentle demeanour , unlike what I have since found cottagers and farmhouse servants to be . 
Yet she was meanly dressed , a coarse blue petticoat and a linen jacket being her only garb her fair hair was plaited but not adorned she looked patient yet sad . 
I lost sight of her , and in about a quarter of an hour she returned bearing the pail , which was now partly filled with milk . 
As she walked along , seemingly incommoded by the burden , a young man met her , whose countenance expressed a deeper despondence . 
Uttering a few sounds with an air of melancholy , he took the pail from her head and bore it to the cottage himself . 
She followed , and they disappeared . 
On examining my dwelling , I found that one of the windows of the cottage had formerly occupied a part of it , but the panes had been filled up with wood . 
In one of these was a small and almost imperceptible chink through which the eye could just penetrate . 
Through this crevice a small room was visible , whitewashed and clean but very bare of furniture . 
In one corner , near a small fire , sat an old man , leaning his head on his hands in a disconsolate attitude . 
It was a lovely sight , even to me , poor wretch who had never beheld aught beautiful before . 
The silver hair and benevolent countenance of the aged cottager won my reverence , while the gentle manners of the girl enticed my love . 
Soon after this the young man returned , bearing on his shoulders a load of wood . 
She seemed pleased and went into the garden for some roots and plants , which she placed in water , and then upon the fire . 
She afterwards continued her work , whilst the young man went into the garden and appeared busily employed in digging and pulling up roots . 
After he had been employed thus about an hour , the young woman joined him and they entered the cottage together . 
The old man had , in the meantime , been pensive , but on the appearance of his companions he assumed a more cheerful air , and they sat down to eat . 
The meal was quickly dispatched . 
The young woman was again occupied in arranging the cottage , the old man walked before the cottage in the sun for a few minutes , leaning on the arm of the youth . 
Nothing could exceed in beauty the contrast between these two excellent creatures . 
The old man returned to the cottage , and the youth , with tools different from those he had used in the morning , directed his steps across the fields . 
The family , after having been thus occupied for a short time , extinguished their lights and retired , as I conjectured , to rest . 
Chapter I lay on my straw , but I could not sleep . 
I thought of the occurrences of the day . 
What chiefly struck me was the gentle manners of these people , and I longed to join them , but dared not . 
The cottagers arose the next morning before the sun . 
The young woman arranged the cottage and prepared the food , and the youth departed after the first meal . 
This day was passed in the same routine as that which preceded it . 
The young man was constantly employed out of doors , and the girl in various laborious occupations within . 
The old man , whom I soon perceived to be blind , employed his leisure hours on his instrument or in contemplation . 
Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable companion . 
They performed towards him every little office of affection and duty with gentleness , and he rewarded them by his benevolent smiles . 
They were not entirely happy . 
The young man and his companion often went apart and appeared to weep . 
I saw no cause for their unhappiness , but I was deeply affected by it . 
If such lovely creatures were miserable , it was less strange that I , an imperfect and solitary being , should be wretched . 
A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the causes of the uneasiness of this amiable family it was poverty , and they suffered that evil in a very distressing degree . 
This trait of kindness moved me sensibly . 
I discovered also another means through which I was enabled to assist their labours . 
She uttered some words in a loud voice , and the youth joined her , who also expressed surprise . 
I observed , with pleasure , that he did not go to the forest that day , but spent it in repairing the cottage and cultivating the garden . 
By degrees I made a discovery of still greater moment . 
I found that these people possessed a method of communicating their experience and feelings to one another by articulate sounds . 
I perceived that the words they spoke sometimes produced pleasure or pain , smiles or sadness , in the minds and countenances of the hearers . 
This was indeed a godlike science , and I ardently desired to become acquainted with it . 
But I was baffled in every attempt I made for this purpose . 
I learned also the names of the cottagers themselves . 
The youth and his companion had each of them several names , but the old man had only one , which was father . 
The girl was called sister' or Agatha , and the youth Felix , brother , or son . 
I cannot describe the delight I felt when I learned the ideas appropriated to each of these sounds and was able to pronounce them . 
I distinguished several other words without being able as yet to understand or apply them , such as good , dearest , unhappy . 
I spent the winter in this manner . 
The gentle manners and beauty of the cottagers greatly endeared them to me when they were unhappy , I felt depressed when they rejoiced , I sympathized in their joys . 
The old man , I could perceive , often endeavoured to encourage his children , as sometimes I found that he called them , to cast off their melancholy . 
He would talk in a cheerful accent , with an expression of goodness that bestowed pleasure even upon me . 
It was not thus with Felix . 
He was always the saddest of the group , and even to my unpractised senses , he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his friends . 
But if his countenance was more sorrowful , his voice was more cheerful than that of his sister , especially when he addressed the old man . 
I could mention innumerable instances which , although slight , marked the dispositions of these amiable cottagers . 
In the midst of poverty and want , Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little white flower that peeped out from beneath the snowy ground . 
In the day , I believe , he worked sometimes for a neighbouring farmer , because he often went forth and did not return until dinner , yet brought no wood with him . 
At other times he worked in the garden , but as there was little to do in the frosty season , he read to the old man and Agatha . 
This reading had puzzled me extremely at first , but by degrees I discovered that he uttered many of the same sounds when he read as when he talked . 
Alas ! I did not yet entirely know the fatal effects of this miserable deformity . 
As the sun became warmer and the light of day longer , the snow vanished , and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth . 
From this time Felix was more employed , and the heart moving indications of impending famine disappeared . 
Their food , as I afterwards found , was coarse , but it was wholesome and they procured a sufficiency of it . 
Several new kinds of plants sprang up in the garden , which they dressed and these signs of comfort increased daily as the season advanced . 
This frequently took place , but a high wind quickly dried the earth , and the season became far more pleasant than it had been . 
My mode of life in my hovel was uniform . 
During the morning I attended the motions of the cottagers , and when they were dispersed in various occupations , I slept the remainder of the day was spent in observing my friends . 
When I returned , as often as it was necessary , I cleared their path from the snow and performed those offices that I had seen done by Felix . 
that it might be in my power to restore happiness to these deserving people . 
When I slept or was absent , the forms of the venerable blind father , the gentle Agatha , and the excellent Felix flitted before me . 
I looked upon them as superior beings who would be the arbiters of my future destiny . 
I formed in my imagination a thousand pictures of presenting myself to them , and their reception of me . 
I imagined that they would be disgusted , until , by my gentle demeanour and conciliating words , I should first win their favour and afterwards their love . 
These thoughts exhilarated me and led me to apply with fresh ardour to the acquiring the art of language . 
My organs were indeed harsh , but supple and although my voice was very unlike the soft music of their tones , yet I pronounced such words as I understood with tolerable ease . 
It was as the ass and the lap dog yet surely the gentle ass whose intentions were affectionate , although his manners were rude , deserved better treatment than blows and execration . 
The pleasant showers and genial warmth of spring greatly altered the aspect of the earth . 
Men who before this change seemed to have been hid in caves dispersed themselves and were employed in various arts of cultivation . 
The birds sang in more cheerful notes , and the leaves began to bud forth on the trees . 
Happy , happy earth ! Fit habitation for gods , which , so short a time before , was bleak , damp , and unwholesome . 
Chapter I now hasten to the more moving part of my story . 
I shall relate events that impressed me with feelings which , from what I had been , have made me what I am . 
Spring advanced rapidly the weather became fine and the skies cloudless . 
It surprised me that what before was desert and gloomy should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure . 
My senses were gratified and refreshed by a thousand scents of delight and a thousand sights of beauty . 
Felix replied in a cheerful accent , and the old man was recommencing his music when someone tapped at the door . 
It was a lady on horseback , accompanied by a country man as a guide . 
The lady was dressed in a dark suit and covered with a thick black veil . 
Agatha asked a question , to which the stranger only replied by pronouncing , in a sweet accent , the name of Felix . 
Her voice was musical but unlike that of either of my friends . 
She did not appear to understand him , but smiled . 
He assisted her to dismount , and dismissing her guide , conducted her into the cottage . 
I soon perceived that although the stranger uttered articulate sounds and appeared to have a language of her own , she was neither understood by nor herself understood the cottagers . 
They made many signs which I did not comprehend , but I saw that her presence diffused gladness through the cottage , dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the morning mists . 
Felix seemed peculiarly happy and with smiles of delight welcomed his Arabian . 
Some hours passed thus , while they , by their countenances , expressed joy , the cause of which I did not comprehend . 
The stranger learned about twenty words at the first lesson most of them , indeed , were those which I had before understood , but I profited by the others . 
As night came on , Agatha and the Arabian retired early . 
When they separated Felix kissed the hand of the stranger and said , Good night sweet Safie . 
He sat up much longer , conversing with his father , and by the frequent repetition of her name I conjectured that their lovely guest was the subject of their conversation . 
I ardently desired to understand them , and bent every faculty towards that purpose , but found it utterly impossible . 
She sang , and her voice flowed in a rich cadence , swelling or dying away like a nightingale of the woods . 
When she had finished , she gave the guitar to Agatha , who at first declined it . 
She played a simple air , and her voice accompanied it in sweet accents , but unlike the wondrous strain of the stranger . 
The days now passed as peaceably as before , with the sole alteration that joy had taken place of sadness in the countenances of my friends . 
While I improved in speech , I also learned the science of letters as it was taught to the stranger , and this opened before me a wide field for wonder and delight . 
The book from which Felix instructed Safie was Volney's Ruins of Empires . 
I should not have understood the purport of this book had not Felix , in reading it , given very minute explanations . 
He had chosen this work , he said , because the declamatory style was framed in imitation of the Eastern authors . 
I heard of the discovery of the American hemisphere and wept with Safie over the hapless fate of its original inhabitants . 
These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings . 
Every conversation of the cottagers now opened new wonders to me . 
While I listened to the instructions which Felix bestowed upon the Arabian , the strange system of human society was explained to me . 
I heard of the division of property , of immense wealth and squalid poverty , of rank , descent , and noble blood . 
The words induced me to turn towards myself . 
I learned that the possessions most esteemed by your fellow creatures were high and unsullied descent united with riches . 
I was , besides , endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome I was not even of the same nature as man . 
I was more agile than they and could subsist upon coarser diet I bore the extremes of heat and cold with less injury to my frame my stature far exceeded theirs . 
When I looked around I saw and heard of none like me . 
The gentle words of Agatha and the animated smiles of the charming Arabian were not for me . 
The mild exhortations of the old man and the lively conversation of the loved Felix were not for me . 
Miserable , unhappy wretch ! Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deeply . 
From my earliest remembrance I had been as I then was in height and proportion . 
I had never yet seen a being resembling me or who claimed any intercourse with me . 
What was I ? The question again recurred , to be answered only with groans . 
Chapter Some time elapsed before I learned the history of my friends . 
The name of the old man was De Lacey . 
He was descended from a good family in France , where he had lived for many years in affluence , respected by his superiors and beloved by his equals . 
His son was bred in the service of his country , and Agatha had ranked with ladies of the highest distinction . 
The father of Safie had been the cause of their ruin . 
He was a Turkish merchant and had inhabited Paris for many years , when , for some reason which I could not learn , he became obnoxious to the government . 
He was seized and cast into prison the very day that Safie arrived from Constantinople to join him . 
He was tried and condemned to death . 
Felix had accidentally been present at the trial his horror and indignation were uncontrollable when he heard the decision of the court . 
He made , at that moment , a solemn vow to deliver him and then looked around for the means . 
Felix visited the grate at night and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favour . 
The Turk , amazed and delighted , endeavoured to kindle the zeal of his deliverer by promises of reward and wealth . 
Felix was too delicate to accept this offer , yet he looked forward to the probability of the event as to the consummation of his happiness . 
She thanked him in the most ardent terms for his intended services towards her parent , and at the same time she gently deplored her own fate . 
The young girl spoke in high and enthusiastic terms of her mother , who , born in freedom , spurned the bondage to which she was now reduced . 
She instructed her daughter in the tenets of her religion and taught her to aspire to higher powers of intellect and an independence of spirit forbidden to the female followers of Muhammad . 
The prospect of marrying a Christian and remaining in a country where women were allowed to take a rank in society was enchanting to her . 
The day for the execution of the Turk was fixed , but on the night previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was distant many leagues from Paris . 
Felix had procured passports in the name of his father , sister , and himself . 
They conversed with one another through the means of an interpreter , and sometimes with the interpretation of looks and Safie sang to him the divine airs of her native country . 
The Turk allowed this intimacy to take place and encouraged the hopes of the youthful lovers , while in his heart he had formed far other plans . 
His plans were facilitated by the news which arrived from Paris . 
The government of France were greatly enraged at the escape of their victim and spared no pains to detect and punish his deliverer . 
The plot of Felix was quickly discovered , and De Lacey and Agatha were thrown into prison . 
The news reached Felix and roused him from his dream of pleasure . 
His blind and aged father and his gentle sister lay in a noisome dungeon while he enjoyed the free air and the society of her whom he loved . 
This idea was torture to him . 
They remained confined for five months before the trial took place , the result of which deprived them of their fortune and condemned them to a perpetual exile from their native country . 
They found a miserable asylum in the cottage in Germany , where I discovered them . 
Such were the events that preyed on the heart of Felix and rendered him , when I first saw him , the most miserable of his family . 
The arrival of the Arabian now infused new life into his soul . 
The generous nature of Safie was outraged by this command she attempted to expostulate with her father , but he left her angrily , reiterating his tyrannical mandate . 
When alone , Safie resolved in her own mind the plan of conduct that it would become her to pursue in this emergency . 
A residence in Turkey was abhorrent to her her religion and her feelings were alike averse to it . 
By some papers of her father which fell into her hands she heard of the exile of her lover and learnt the name of the spot where he then resided . 
She hesitated some time , but at length she formed her determination . 
She arrived in safety at a town about twenty leagues from the cottage of De Lacey , when her attendant fell dangerously ill . 
She fell , however , into good hands . 
Chapter Such was the history of my beloved cottagers . 
I learned , from the views of social life which it developed , to admire their virtues and to deprecate the vices of mankind . 
But in giving an account of the progress of my intellect , I must not omit a circumstance which occurred in the beginning of the month of August of the same year . 
I eagerly seized the prize and returned with it to my hovel . 
The possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight I now continually studied and exercised my mind upon these histories , whilst my friends were employed in their ordinary occupations . 
I can hardly describe to you the effect of these books . 
They produced in me an infinity of new images and feelings , that sometimes raised me to ecstasy , but more frequently sunk me into the lowest dejection . 
But I thought Werter himself a more divine being than I had ever beheld or imagined his character contained no pretension , but it sank deep . 
The disquisitions upon death and suicide were calculated to fill me with wonder . 
I did not pretend to enter into the merits of the case , yet I inclined towards the opinions of the hero , whose extinction I wept , without precisely understanding it . 
As I read , however , I applied much personally to my own feelings and condition . 
I found myself similar yet at the same time strangely unlike to the beings concerning whom I read and to whose conversation I was a listener . 
I sympathized with and partly understood them , but I was unformed in mind I was dependent on none and related to none . 
The path of my departure was free , and there was none to lament my annihilation . 
My person was hideous and my stature gigantic . 
The volume of Plutarch's Lives which I possessed contained the histories of the first founders of the ancient republics . 
This book had a far different effect upon me from the Sorrows of Werter . 
Many things I read surpassed my understanding and experience . 
I had a very confused knowledge of kingdoms , wide extents of country , mighty rivers , and boundless seas . 
But I was perfectly unacquainted with towns and large assemblages of men . 
The cottage of my protectors had been the only school in which I had studied human nature , but this book developed new and mightier scenes of action . 
I read of men concerned in public affairs , governing or massacring their species . 
Induced by these feelings , I was of course led to admire peaceable lawgivers , Numa , Solon , and Lycurgus , in preference to Romulus and Theseus . 
But Paradise Lost excited different and far deeper emotions . 
I read it , as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into my hands , as a true history . 
It moved every feeling of wonder and awe that the picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures was capable of exciting . 
I often referred the several situations , as their similarity struck me , to my own . 
Like Adam , I was apparently united by no link to any other being in existence but his state was far different from mine in every other respect . 
Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these feelings . 
Soon after my arrival in the hovel I discovered some papers in the pocket of the dress which I had taken from your laboratory . 
At first I had neglected them , but now that I was able to decipher the characters in which they were written , I began to study them with diligence . 
It was your journal of the four months that preceded my creation . 
You minutely described in these papers every step you took in the progress of your work this history was mingled with accounts of domestic occurrences . 
You doubtless recollect these papers . 
I sickened as I read . 
Hateful day when I received life ! I exclaimed in agony . 
Satan had his companions , fellow devils , to admire and encourage him , but I am solitary and abhorred . 
I postponed this attempt for some months longer , for the importance attached to its success inspired me with a dread lest I should fail . 
Besides , I found that my understanding improved so much with every day's experience that I was unwilling to commence this undertaking until a few more months should have added to my sagacity . 
Several changes , in the meantime , took place in the cottage . 
The presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants , and I also found that a greater degree of plenty reigned there . 
Felix and Agatha spent more time in amusement and conversation , and were assisted in their labours by servants . 
They did not appear rich , but they were contented and happy their feelings were serene and peaceful , while mine became every day more tumultuous . 
Increase of knowledge only discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was . 
But it was all a dream no Eve soothed my sorrows nor shared my thoughts I was alone . 
I remembered Adam's supplication to his Creator . 
But where was mine ? He had abandoned me , and in the bitterness of my heart I cursed him . 
Yet I did not heed the bleakness of the weather I was better fitted by my conformation for the endurance of cold than heat . 
Their happiness was not decreased by the absence of summer . 
They loved and sympathized with one another and their joys , depending on each other , were not interrupted by the casualties that took place around them . 
I dared not think that they would turn them from me with disdain and horror . 
The poor that stopped at their door were never driven away . 
I asked , it is true , for greater treasures than a little food or rest I required kindness and sympathy but I did not believe myself utterly unworthy of it . 
The winter advanced , and an entire revolution of the seasons had taken place since I awoke into life . 
My attention at this time was solely directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the cottage of my protectors . 
I revolved many projects , but that on which I finally fixed was to enter the dwelling when the blind old man should be alone . 
I had sagacity enough to discover that the unnatural hideousness of my person was the chief object of horror with those who had formerly beheld me . 
When his children had departed , he took up his guitar and played several mournful but sweet airs , more sweet and mournful than I had ever heard him play before . 
At first his countenance was illuminated with pleasure , but as he continued , thoughtfulness and sadness succeeded at length , laying aside the instrument , he sat absorbed in reflection . 
My heart beat quick this was the hour and moment of trial , which would decide my hopes or realize my fears . 
The servants were gone to a neighbouring fair . 
All was silent in and around the cottage it was an excellent opportunity yet , when I proceeded to execute my plan , my limbs failed me and I sank to the ground . 
Again I rose , and exerting all the firmness of which I was master , removed the planks which I had placed before my hovel to conceal my retreat . 
The fresh air revived me , and with renewed determination I approached the door of their cottage . 
Who is there ? said the old man . 
Do not trouble yourself , my kind host I have food it is warmth and rest only that I need . 
I sat down , and a silence ensued . 
I knew that every minute was precious to me , yet I remained irresolute in what manner to commence the interview , when the old man addressed me . 
By your language , stranger , I suppose you are my countryman are you French ? No but I was educated by a French family and understand that language only . 
I am now going to claim the protection of some friends , whom I sincerely love , and of whose favour I have some hopes . 
Are they Germans ? No , they are French . 
But let us change the subject . 
I am an unfortunate and deserted creature , I look around and I have no relation or friend upon earth . 
These amiable people to whom I go have never seen me and know little of me . 
I am full of fears , for if I fail there , I am an outcast in the world forever . 
To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate , but the hearts of men , when unprejudiced by any obvious self interest , are full of brotherly love and charity . 
Rely , therefore , on your hopes and if these friends are good and amiable , do not despair . 
They are kind they are the most excellent creatures in the world but , unfortunately , they are prejudiced against me . 
Where do these friends reside ? Near this spot . 
The old man paused and then continued , If you will unreservedly confide to me the particulars of your tale , I perhaps may be of use in undeceiving them . 
I am blind and cannot judge of your countenance , but there is something in your words which persuades me that you are sincere . 
I am poor and an exile , but it will afford me true pleasure to be in any way serviceable to a human creature . 
Excellent man ! I thank you and accept your generous offer . 
You raise me from the dust by this kindness and I trust that , by your aid , I shall not be driven from the society and sympathy of your fellow creatures . 
Heaven forbid ! Even if you were really criminal , for that can only drive you to desperation , and not instigate you to virtue . 
I also am unfortunate I and my family have been condemned , although innocent judge , therefore , if I do not feel for your misfortunes . 
May I know the names and residence of those friends ? I paused . 
This , I thought , was the moment of decision , which was to rob me of or bestow happiness on me forever . 
I struggled vainly for firmness sufficient to answer him , but the effort destroyed all my remaining strength I sank on the chair and sobbed aloud . 
At that moment I heard the steps of my younger protectors . 
Do not you desert me in the hour of trial ! Great God ! exclaimed the old man . 
Who are you ? At that instant the cottage door was opened , and Felix , Safie , and Agatha entered . 
Who can describe their horror and consternation on beholding me ? Agatha fainted , and Safie , unable to attend to her friend , rushed out of the cottage . 
I could have torn him limb from limb , as the lion rends the antelope . 
But my heart sank within me as with bitter sickness , and I refrained . 
I could with pleasure have destroyed the cottage and its inhabitants and have glutted myself with their shrieks and misery . 
When night came I quitted my retreat and wandered in the wood and now , no longer restrained by the fear of discovery , I gave vent to my anguish in fearful howlings . 
I was like a wild beast that had broken the toils , destroying the objects that obstructed me and ranging through the wood with a staglike swiftness . 
But this was a luxury of sensation that could not endure I became fatigued with excess of bodily exertion and sank on the damp grass in the sick impotence of despair . 
The sun rose I heard the voices of men and knew that it was impossible to return to my retreat during that day . 
Accordingly I hid myself in some thick underwood , determining to devote the ensuing hours to reflection on my situation . 
I had certainly acted imprudently . 
It was apparent that my conversation had interested the father in my behalf , and I was a fool in having exposed my person to the horror of his children . 
These thoughts calmed me , and in the afternoon I sank into a profound sleep but the fever of my blood did not allow me to be visited by peaceful dreams . 
The horrible scene of the preceding day was forever acting before my eyes the females were flying and the enraged Felix tearing me from his father's feet . 
I awoke exhausted , and finding that it was already night , I crept forth from my hiding place , and went in search of food . 
When my hunger was appeased , I directed my steps towards the well known path that conducted to the cottage . 
All there was at peace . 
I crept into my hovel and remained in silent expectation of the accustomed hour when the family arose . 
That hour passed , the sun mounted high in the heavens , but the cottagers did not appear . 
I trembled violently , apprehending some dreadful misfortune . 
The inside of the cottage was dark , and I heard no motion I cannot describe the agony of this suspense . 
It is utterly useless , replied Felix we can never again inhabit your cottage . 
The life of my father is in the greatest danger , owing to the dreadful circumstance that I have related . 
My wife and my sister will never recover from their horror . 
I entreat you not to reason with me any more . 
Take possession of your tenement and let me fly from this place . 
Felix trembled violently as he said this . 
He and his companion entered the cottage , in which they remained for a few minutes , and then departed . 
I never saw any of the family of De Lacey more . 
I continued for the remainder of the day in my hovel in a state of utter and stupid despair . 
My protectors had departed and had broken the only link that held me to the world . 
The wind fanned the fire , and the cottage was quickly enveloped by the flames , which clung to it and licked it with their forked and destroying tongues . 
As soon as I was convinced that no assistance could save any part of the habitation , I quitted the scene and sought for refuge in the woods . 
At length the thought of you crossed my mind . 
You had mentioned Geneva as the name of your native town , and towards this place I resolved to proceed . 
But how was I to direct myself ? I knew that I must travel in a southwesterly direction to reach my destination , but the sun was my only guide . 
I did not know the names of the towns that I was to pass through , nor could I ask information from a single human being but I did not despair . 
From you only could I hope for succour , although towards you I felt no sentiment but that of hatred . 
Unfeeling , heartless creator ! You had endowed me with perceptions and passions and then cast me abroad an object for the scorn and horror of mankind . 
My travels were long and the sufferings I endured intense . 
It was late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided . 
I travelled only at night , fearful of encountering the visage of a human being . 
The nearer I approached to your habitation , the more deeply did I feel the spirit of revenge enkindled in my heart . 
Snow fell , and the waters were hardened , but I rested not . 
A few incidents now and then directed me , and I possessed a map of the country but I often wandered wide from my path . 
I generally rested during the day and travelled only when I was secured by night from the view of man . 
I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure , that had long appeared dead , revive within me . 
Half surprised by the novelty of these sensations , I allowed myself to be borne away by them , and forgetting my solitude and deformity , dared to be happy . 
Soft tears again bedewed my cheeks , and I even raised my humid eyes with thankfulness towards the blessed sun , which bestowed such joy upon me . 
Here I paused , not exactly knowing what path to pursue , when I heard the sound of voices , that induced me to conceal myself under the shade of a cypress . 
I was scarcely hid when a young girl came running towards the spot where I was concealed , laughing , as if she ran from someone in sport . 
She continued her course along the precipitous sides of the river , when suddenly her foot slipped , and she fell into the rapid stream . 
I rushed from my hiding place and with extreme labour , from the force of the current , saved her and dragged her to shore . 
On seeing me , he darted towards me , and tearing the girl from my arms , hastened towards the deeper parts of the wood . 
I followed speedily , I hardly knew why but when the man saw me draw near , he aimed a gun , which he carried , at my body and fired . 
I sank to the ground , and my injurer , with increased swiftness , escaped into the wood . 
The feelings of kindness and gentleness which I had entertained but a few moments before gave place to hellish rage and gnashing of teeth . 
Inflamed by pain , I vowed eternal hatred and vengeance to all mankind . 
But the agony of my wound overcame me my pulses paused , and I fainted . 
For some weeks I led a miserable life in the woods , endeavouring to cure the wound which I had received . 
The ball had entered my shoulder , and I knew not whether it had remained there or passed through at any rate I had no means of extracting it . 
My sufferings were augmented also by the oppressive sense of the injustice and ingratitude of their infliction . 
My daily vows rose for revenge a deep and deadly revenge , such as would alone compensate for the outrages and anguish I had endured . 
After some weeks my wound healed , and I continued my journey . 
But my toils now drew near a close , and in two months from this time I reached the environs of Geneva . 
It was evening when I arrived , and I retired to a hiding place among the fields that surround it to meditate in what manner I should apply to you . 
I was oppressed by fatigue and hunger and far too unhappy to enjoy the gentle breezes of evening or the prospect of the sun setting behind the stupendous mountains of Jura . 
Suddenly , as I gazed on him , an idea seized me that this little creature was unprejudiced and had lived too short a time to have imbibed a horror of deformity . 
If , therefore , I could seize him and educate him as my companion and friend , I should not be so desolate in this peopled earth . 
Urged by this impulse , I seized on the boy as he passed and drew him towards me . 
Let me go , he cried monster ! Ugly wretch ! You wish to eat me and tear me to pieces . 
Let me go , or I will tell my papa . 
Boy , you will never see your father again you must come with me . 
Hideous monster ! Let me go . 
My papa is a syndic he is M. Frankenstein he will punish you . 
You dare not keep me . 
Frankenstein ! you belong then to my enemy to him towards whom I have sworn eternal revenge you shall be my first victim . 
The child still struggled and loaded me with epithets which carried despair to my heart I grasped his throat to silence him , and in a moment he lay dead at my feet . 
As I fixed my eyes on the child , I saw something glittering on his breast . 
I took it it was a portrait of a most lovely woman . 
In spite of my malignity , it softened and attracted me . 
Here , I thought , is one of those whose joy imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me . 
Should she indeed awake , and see me , and curse me , and denounce the murderer ? Thus would she assuredly act if her darkened eyes opened and she beheld me . 
The crime had its source in her be hers the punishment ! Thanks to the lessons of Felix and the sanguinary laws of man , I had learned now to work mischief . 
I bent over her and placed the portrait securely in one of the folds of her dress . 
She moved again , and I fled . 
For some days I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place , sometimes wishing to see you , sometimes resolved to quit the world and its miseries forever . 
At length I wandered towards these mountains , and have ranged through their immense recesses , consumed by a burning passion which you alone can gratify . 
We may not part until you have promised to comply with my requisition . 
I am alone and miserable man will not associate with me but one as deformed and horrible as myself would not deny herself to me . 
My companion must be of the same species and have the same defects . 
This being you must create . 
Chapter The being finished speaking and fixed his looks upon me in the expectation of a reply . 
But I was bewildered , perplexed , and unable to arrange my ideas sufficiently to understand the full extent of his proposition . 
He continued , You must create a female for me with whom I can live in the interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being . 
This you alone can do , and I demand it of you as a right which you must not refuse to concede . 
I do refuse it , I replied and no torture shall ever extort a consent from me . 
You may render me the most miserable of men , but you shall never make me base in my own eyes . 
Shall I create another like yourself , whose joint wickedness might desolate the world . 
Begone ! I have answered you you may torture me , but I will never consent . 
You are in the wrong , replied the fiend and instead of threatening , I am content to reason with you . 
I am malicious because I am miserable . 
But that cannot be the human senses are insurmountable barriers to our union . 
Yet mine shall not be the submission of abject slavery . 
I will revenge my injuries if I cannot inspire love , I will cause fear , and chiefly towards you my archenemy , because my creator , do I swear inextinguishable hatred . 
Have a care I will work at your destruction , nor finish until I desolate your heart , so that you shall curse the hour of your birth . 
A fiendish rage animated him as he said this his face was wrinkled into contortions too horrible for human eyes to behold but presently he calmed himself and proceeded I intended to reason . 
This passion is detrimental to me , for you do not reflect that YOU are the cause of its excess . 
It is true , we shall be monsters , cut off from all the world but on that account we shall be more attached to one another . 
Our lives will not be happy , but they will be harmless and free from the misery I now feel . 
I shuddered when I thought of the possible consequences of my consent , but I felt that there was some justice in his argument . 
My food is not that of man I do not destroy the lamb and the kid to glut my appetite acorns and berries afford me sufficient nourishment . 
My companion will be of the same nature as myself and will be content with the same fare . 
We shall make our bed of dried leaves the sun will shine on us as on man and will ripen our food . 
The picture I present to you is peaceful and human , and you must feel that you could deny it only in the wantonness of power and cruelty . 
Pitiless as you have been towards me , I now see compassion in your eyes let me seize the favourable moment and persuade you to promise what I so ardently desire . 
You propose , replied I , to fly from the habitations of man , to dwell in those wilds where the beasts of the field will be your only companions . 
This may not be cease to argue the point , for I cannot consent . 
My evil passions will have fled , for I shall meet with sympathy ! My life will flow quietly away , and in my dying moments I shall not curse my maker . 
His words had a strange effect upon me . 
My vices are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor , and my virtues will necessarily arise when I live in communion with an equal . 
I shall feel the affections of a sensitive being and became linked to the chain of existence and events from which I am now excluded . 
I paused some time to reflect on all he had related and the various arguments which he had employed . 
After a long pause of reflection I concluded that the justice due both to him and my fellow creatures demanded of me that I should comply with his request . 
Depart to your home and commence your labours I shall watch their progress with unutterable anxiety and fear not but that when you are ready I shall appear . 
Saying this , he suddenly quitted me , fearful , perhaps , of any change in my sentiments . 
I saw him descend the mountain with greater speed than the flight of an eagle , and quickly lost among the undulations of the sea of ice . 
His tale had occupied the whole day , and the sun was upon the verge of the horizon when he departed . 
I knew that I ought to hasten my descent towards the valley , as I should soon be encompassed in darkness but my heart was heavy , and my steps slow . 
Night was far advanced when I came to the halfway resting place and seated myself beside the fountain . 
Morning dawned before I arrived at the village of Chamounix I took no rest , but returned immediately to Geneva . 
Even in my own heart I could give no expression to my sensations they weighed on me with a mountain's weight and their excess destroyed my agony beneath them . 
Thus I returned home , and entering the house , presented myself to the family . 
My haggard and wild appearance awoke intense alarm , but I answered no question , scarcely did I speak . 
I felt as if I were placed under a ban as if I had no right to claim their sympathies as if never more might I enjoy companionship with them . 
Yet even thus I loved them to adoration and to save them , I resolved to dedicate myself to my most abhorred task . 
The prospect of such an occupation made every other circumstance of existence pass before me like a dream , and that thought only had to me the reality of life . 
Chapter Day after day , week after week , passed away on my return to Geneva and I could not collect the courage to recommence my work . 
I feared the vengeance of the disappointed fiend , yet I was unable to overcome my repugnance to the task which was enjoined me . 
I found that I could not compose a female without again devoting several months to profound study and laborious disquisition . 
At these moments I took refuge in the most perfect solitude . 
I passed whole days on the lake alone in a little boat , watching the clouds and listening to the rippling of the waves , silent and listless . 
And yet you are still unhappy and still avoid our society . 
Reserve on such a point would be not only useless , but draw down treble misery on us all . 
You were attached to each other from your earliest infancy you studied together , and appeared , in dispositions and tastes , entirely suited to one another . 
But so blind is the experience of man that what I conceived to be the best assistants to my plan may have entirely destroyed it . 
You , perhaps , regard her as your sister , without any wish that she might become your wife . 
My dear father , reassure yourself . 
I love my cousin tenderly and sincerely . 
I never saw any woman who excited , as Elizabeth does , my warmest admiration and affection . 
My future hopes and prospects are entirely bound up in the expectation of our union . 
The expression of your sentiments of this subject , my dear Victor , gives me more pleasure than I have for some time experienced . 
If you feel thus , we shall assuredly be happy , however present events may cast a gloom over us . 
But it is this gloom which appears to have taken so strong a hold of your mind that I wish to dissipate . 
Tell me , therefore , whether you object to an immediate solemnization of the marriage . 
We have been unfortunate , and recent events have drawn us from that everyday tranquillity befitting my years and infirmities . 
Do not suppose , however , that I wish to dictate happiness to you or that a delay on your part would cause me any serious uneasiness . 
Interpret my words with candour and answer me , I conjure you , with confidence and sincerity . 
I listened to my father in silence and remained for some time incapable of offering any reply . 
I revolved rapidly in my mind a multitude of thoughts and endeavoured to arrive at some conclusion . 
Alas ! To me the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and dismay . 
I knew that a thousand fearful accidents might occur , the slightest of which would disclose a tale to thrill all connected with me with horror . 
I was aware also that I should often lose all self command , all capacity of hiding the harrowing sensations that would possess me during the progress of my unearthly occupation . 
I must absent myself from all I loved while thus employed . 
Once commenced , it would quickly be achieved , and I might be restored to my family in peace and happiness . 
My promise fulfilled , the monster would depart forever . 
some accident might meanwhile occur to destroy him and put an end to my slavery forever . 
These feelings dictated my answer to my father . 
The duration of my absence was left to my own choice a few months , or at most a year , was the period contemplated . 
One paternal kind precaution he had taken to ensure my having a companion . 
Without previously communicating with me , he had , in concert with Elizabeth , arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasbourg . 
Nay , Henry might stand between me and the intrusion of my foe . 
My father's age rendered him extremely averse to delay . 
I now made arrangements for my journey , but one feeling haunted me which filled me with fear and agitation . 
During my absence I should leave my friends unconscious of the existence of their enemy and unprotected from his attacks , exasperated as he might be by my departure . 
I was agonized with the idea of the possibility that the reverse of this might happen . 
It was in the latter end of September that I again quitted my native country . 
It had been her care which provided me a companion in Clerval and yet a man is blind to a thousand minute circumstances which call forth a woman's sedulous attention . 
She longed to bid me hasten my return a thousand conflicting emotions rendered her mute as she bade me a tearful , silent farewell . 
I threw myself into the carriage that was to convey me away , hardly knowing whither I was going , and careless of what was passing around . 
I remembered only , and it was with a bitter anguish that I reflected on it , to order that my chemical instruments should be packed to go with me . 
Filled with dreary imaginations , I passed through many beautiful and majestic scenes , but my eyes were fixed and unobserving . 
I could only think of the bourne of my travels and the work which was to occupy me whilst they endured . 
After some days spent in listless indolence , during which I traversed many leagues , I arrived at Strasbourg , where I waited two days for Clerval . 
He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the landscape and the appearances of the sky . 
I , a miserable wretch , haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue to enjoyment . 
We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from Strasbourg to Rotterdam , whence we might take shipping for London . 
During this voyage we passed many willowy islands and saw several beautiful towns . 
We stayed a day at Mannheim , and on the fifth from our departure from Strasbourg , arrived at Mainz . 
The course of the Rhine below Mainz becomes much more picturesque . 
The river descends rapidly and winds between hills , not high , but steep , and of beautiful forms . 
We saw many ruined castles standing on the edges of precipices , surrounded by black woods , high and inaccessible . 
This part of the Rhine , indeed , presents a singularly variegated landscape . 
We travelled at the time of the vintage and heard the song of the labourers as we glided down the stream . 
Even I , depressed in mind , and my spirits continually agitated by gloomy feelings , even I was pleased . 
And if these were my sensations , who can describe those of Henry ? He felt as if he had been transported to fairy land and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted by man . 
The mountains of Switzerland are more majestic and strange , but there is a charm in the banks of this divine river that I never before saw equalled . 
Clerval ! Beloved friend ! Even now it delights me to record your words and to dwell on the praise of which you are so eminently deserving . 
He was a being formed in the very poetry of nature . 
His wild and enthusiastic imagination was chastened by the sensibility of his heart . 
His soul overflowed with ardent affections , and his friendship was of that devoted and wondrous nature that the world minded teach us to look for only in the imagination . 
But even human sympathies were not sufficient to satisfy his eager mind . 
I will proceed with my tale . 
Our journey here lost the interest arising from beautiful scenery , but we arrived in a few days at Rotterdam , whence we proceeded by sea to England . 
It was on a clear morning , in the latter days of December , that I first saw the white cliffs of Britain . 
The banks of the Thames presented a new scene they were flat but fertile , and almost every town was marked by the remembrance of some story . 
We saw Tilbury Fort and remembered the Spanish Armada , Gravesend , Woolwich , and Greenwich places which I had heard of even in my country . 
At length we saw the numerous steeples of London , St . 
Paul's towering above all , and the Tower famed in English history . 
Chapter London was our present point of rest we determined to remain several months in this wonderful and celebrated city . 
If this journey had taken place during my days of study and happiness , it would have afforded me inexpressible pleasure . 
But busy , uninteresting , joyous faces brought back despair to my heart . 
But in Clerval I saw the image of my former self he was inquisitive and anxious to gain experience and instruction . 
The difference of manners which he observed was to him an inexhaustible source of instruction and amusement . 
He was also pursuing an object he had long had in view . 
In Britain only could he further the execution of his plan . 
He was forever busy , and the only check to his enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind . 
I often refused to accompany him , alleging another engagement , that I might remain alone . 
I now also began to collect the materials necessary for my new creation , and this was to me like the torture of single drops of water continually falling on the head . 
Every thought that was devoted to it was an extreme anguish , and every word that I spoke in allusion to it caused my lips to quiver , and my heart to palpitate . 
After passing some months in London , we received a letter from a person in Scotland who had formerly been our visitor at Geneva . 
He mentioned the beauties of his native country and asked us if those were not sufficient allurements to induce us to prolong our journey as far north as Perth , where he resided . 
We had arrived in England at the beginning of October , and it was now February . 
We accordingly determined to commence our journey towards the north at the expiration of another month . 
I packed up my chemical instruments and the materials I had collected , resolving to finish my labours in some obscure nook in the northern highlands of Scotland . 
We quitted London on the th of March and remained a few days at Windsor , rambling in its beautiful forest . 
This was a new scene to us mountaineers the majestic oaks , the quantity of game , and the herds of stately deer were all novelties to us . 
From thence we proceeded to Oxford . 
As we entered this city our minds were filled with the remembrance of the events that had been transacted there more than a century and a half before . 
It was here that Charles I had collected his forces . 
This city had remained faithful to him , after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join the standard of Parliament and liberty . 
The spirit of elder days found a dwelling here , and we delighted to trace its footsteps . 
If these feelings had not found an imaginary gratification , the appearance of the city had yet in itself sufficient beauty to obtain our admiration . 
I enjoyed this scene , and yet my enjoyment was embittered both by the memory of the past and the anticipation of the future . 
I was formed for peaceful happiness . 
We passed a considerable period at Oxford , rambling among its environs and endeavouring to identify every spot which might relate to the most animating epoch of English history . 
Our little voyages of discovery were often prolonged by the successive objects that presented themselves . 
We visited the tomb of the illustrious Hampden and the field on which that patriot fell . 
For a moment my soul was elevated from its debasing and miserable fears to contemplate the divine ideas of liberty and self sacrifice of which these sights were the monuments and the remembrancers . 
We left Oxford with regret and proceeded to Matlock , which was our next place of rest . 
We visited the wondrous cave and the little cabinets of natural history , where the curiosities are disposed in the same manner as in the collections at Servox and Chamounix . 
The latter name made me tremble when pronounced by Henry , and I hastened to quit Matlock , with which that terrible scene was thus associated . 
From Derby , still journeying northwards , we passed two months in Cumberland and Westmorland . 
I could now almost fancy myself among the Swiss mountains . 
Here also we made some acquaintances , who almost contrived to cheat me into happiness . 
I could pass my life here , said he to me and among these mountains I should scarcely regret Switzerland and the Rhine . 
But he found that a traveller's life is one that includes much pain amidst its enjoyments . 
For my own part I was not sorry . 
I had now neglected my promise for some time , and I feared the effects of the daemon's disappointment . 
He might remain in Switzerland and wreak his vengeance on my relatives . 
This idea pursued me and tormented me at every moment from which I might otherwise have snatched repose and peace . 
Sometimes I thought that the fiend followed me and might expedite my remissness by murdering my companion . 
When these thoughts possessed me , I would not quit Henry for a moment , but followed him as his shadow , to protect him from the fancied rage of his destroyer . 
I felt as if I had committed some great crime , the consciousness of which haunted me . 
I was guiltless , but I had indeed drawn down a horrible curse upon my head , as mortal as that of crime . 
I visited Edinburgh with languid eyes and mind and yet that city might have interested the most unfortunate being . 
Clerval did not like it so well as Oxford , for the antiquity of the latter city was more pleasing to him . 
But the beauty and regularity of the new town of Edinburgh , its romantic castle and its environs , the most delightful in the world , Arthur's Seat , St . 
Bernard's Well , and the Pentland Hills compensated him for the change and filled him with cheerfulness and admiration . 
But I was impatient to arrive at the termination of my journey . 
We left Edinburgh in a week , passing through Coupar , St . 
Andrew's , and along the banks of the Tay , to Perth , where our friend expected us . 
Do you , said I , enjoy yourself , and let this be our rendezvous . 
Henry wished to dissuade me , but seeing me bent on this plan , ceased to remonstrate . 
He entreated me to write often . 
Having parted from my friend , I determined to visit some remote spot of Scotland and finish my work in solitude . 
I did not doubt but that the monster followed me and would discover himself to me when I should have finished , that he might receive his companion . 
With this resolution I traversed the northern highlands and fixed on one of the remotest of the Orkneys as the scene of my labours . 
It was a place fitted for such a work , being hardly more than a rock whose high sides were continually beaten upon by the waves . 
Vegetables and bread , when they indulged in such luxuries , and even fresh water , was to be procured from the mainland , which was about five miles distant . 
On the whole island there were but three miserable huts , and one of these was vacant when I arrived . 
It contained but two rooms , and these exhibited all the squalidness of the most miserable penury . 
The thatch had fallen in , the walls were unplastered , and the door was off its hinges . 
It was a monotonous yet ever changing scene . 
I thought of Switzerland it was far different from this desolate and appalling landscape . 
Its hills are covered with vines , and its cottages are scattered thickly in the plains . 
In this manner I distributed my occupations when I first arrived , but as I proceeded in my labour , it became every day more horrible and irksome to me . 
Sometimes I could not prevail on myself to enter my laboratory for several days , and at other times I toiled day and night in order to complete my work . 
It was , indeed , a filthy process in which I was engaged . 
But now I went to it in cold blood , and my heart often sickened at the work of my hands . 
Every moment I feared to meet my persecutor . 
Sometimes I sat with my eyes fixed on the ground , fearing to raise them lest they should encounter the object which I so much dreaded to behold . 
I feared to wander from the sight of my fellow creatures lest when alone he should come to claim his companion . 
In the mean time I worked on , and my labour was already considerably advanced . 
As I sat , a train of reflection occurred to me which led me to consider the effects of what I was now doing . 
Three years before , I was engaged in the same manner and had created a fiend whose unparalleled barbarity had desolated my heart and filled it forever with the bitterest remorse . 
I trembled and my heart failed within me , when , on looking up , I saw by the light of the moon the daemon at the casement . 
A ghastly grin wrinkled his lips as he gazed on me , where I sat fulfilling the task which he had allotted to me . 
As I looked on him , his countenance expressed the utmost extent of malice and treachery . 
I thought with a sensation of madness on my promise of creating another like to him , and trembling with passion , tore to pieces the thing on which I was engaged . 
The wretch saw me destroy the creature on whose future existence he depended for happiness , and with a howl of devilish despair and revenge , withdrew . 
I was alone none were near me to dissipate the gloom and relieve me from the sickening oppression of the most terrible reveries . 
A few fishing vessels alone specked the water , and now and then the gentle breeze wafted the sound of voices as the fishermen called to one another . 
In a few minutes after , I heard the creaking of my door , as if some one endeavoured to open it softly . 
Presently I heard the sound of footsteps along the passage the door opened , and the wretch whom I dreaded appeared . 
I have dwelt many months in the heaths of England and among the deserts of Scotland . 
Slave , I before reasoned with you , but you have proved yourself unworthy of my condescension . 
Remember that I have power you believe yourself miserable , but I can make you so wretched that the light of day will be hateful to you . 
You are my creator , but I am your master obey ! The hour of my irresolution is past , and the period of your power is arrived . 
Your threats cannot move me to do an act of wickedness but they confirm me in a determination of not creating you a companion in vice . 
The monster saw my determination in my face and gnashed his teeth in the impotence of anger . 
Man ! You may hate , but beware ! Your hours will pass in dread and misery , and soon the bolt will fall which must ravish from you your happiness forever . 
Beware , for I am fearless and therefore powerful . 
I will watch with the wiliness of a snake , that I may sting with its venom . 
Man , you shall repent of the injuries you inflict . 
Devil , cease and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice . 
I have declared my resolution to you , and I am no coward to bend beneath words . 
Leave me I am inexorable . 
I go but remember , I shall be with you on your wedding night . 
I started forward and exclaimed , Villain ! Before you sign my death warrant , be sure that you are yourself safe . 
I would have seized him , but he eluded me and quitted the house with precipitation . 
In a few moments I saw him in his boat , which shot across the waters with an arrowy swiftness and was soon lost amidst the waves . 
All was again silent , but his words rang in my ears . 
I burned with rage to pursue the murderer of my peace and precipitate him into the ocean . 
I walked up and down my room hastily and perturbed , while my imagination conjured up a thousand images to torment and sting me . 
Why had I not followed him and closed with him in mortal strife ? But I had suffered him to depart , and he had directed his course towards the mainland . 
I shuddered to think who might be the next victim sacrificed to his insatiate revenge . 
And then I thought again of his words I WILL BE WITH YOU ON YOUR WEDDING NIGHT . 
That , then , was the period fixed for the fulfillment of my destiny . 
In that hour I should die and at once satisfy and extinguish his malice . 
I desired that I might pass my life on that barren rock , wearily , it is true , but uninterrupted by any sudden shock of misery . 
If I returned , it was to be sacrificed or to see those whom I most loved die under the grasp of a daemon whom I had myself created . 
I walked about the isle like a restless spectre , separated from all it loved and miserable in the separation . 
When it became noon , and the sun rose higher , I lay down on the grass and was overpowered by a deep sleep . 
I had been awake the whole of the preceding night , my nerves were agitated , and my eyes inflamed by watching and misery . 
He besought me , therefore , to leave my solitary isle and to meet him at Perth , that we might proceed southwards together . 
This letter in a degree recalled me to life , and I determined to quit my island at the expiration of two days . 
The next morning , at daybreak , I summoned sufficient courage and unlocked the door of my laboratory . 
I paused to collect myself and then entered the chamber . 
Nothing could be more complete than the alteration that had taken place in my feelings since the night of the appearance of the daemon . 
Between two and three in the morning the moon rose and I then , putting my basket aboard a little skiff , sailed out about four miles from the shore . 
The scene was perfectly solitary a few boats were returning towards land , but I sailed away from them . 
I felt as if I was about the commission of a dreadful crime and avoided with shuddering anxiety any encounter with my fellow creatures . 
The sky became clouded , but the air was pure , although chilled by the northeast breeze that was then rising . 
I do not know how long I remained in this situation , but when I awoke I found that the sun had already mounted considerably . 
The wind was high , and the waves continually threatened the safety of my little skiff . 
I found that the wind was northeast and must have driven me far from the coast from which I had embarked . 
I endeavoured to change my course but quickly found that if I again made the attempt the boat would be instantly filled with water . 
Thus situated , my only resource was to drive before the wind . 
I confess that I felt a few sensations of terror . 
I had no compass with me and was so slenderly acquainted with the geography of this part of the world that the sun was of little benefit to me . 
I might be driven into the wide Atlantic and feel all the tortures of starvation or be swallowed up in the immeasurable waters that roared and buffeted around me . 
I had already been out many hours and felt the torment of a burning thirst , a prelude to my other sufferings . 
Some hours passed thus but by degrees , as the sun declined towards the horizon , the wind died away into a gentle breeze and the sea became free from breakers . 
But these gave place to a heavy swell I felt sick and hardly able to hold the rudder , when suddenly I saw a line of high land towards the south . 
It had a wild and rocky appearance , but as I approached nearer I easily perceived the traces of cultivation . 
I saw vessels near the shore and found myself suddenly transported back to the neighbourhood of civilized man . 
I carefully traced the windings of the land and hailed a steeple which I at length saw issuing from behind a small promontory . 
As I was in a state of extreme debility , I resolved to sail directly towards the town , as a place where I could most easily procure nourishment . 
Fortunately I had money with me . 
As I turned the promontory I perceived a small neat town and a good harbour , which I entered , my heart bounding with joy at my unexpected escape . 
As I was occupied in fixing the boat and arranging the sails , several people crowded towards the spot . 
As it was , I merely remarked that they spoke English , and I therefore addressed them in that language . 
Maybe you are come to a place that will not prove much to your taste , but you will not be consulted as to your quarters , I promise you . 
I was exceedingly surprised on receiving so rude an answer from a stranger , and I was also disconcerted on perceiving the frowning and angry countenances of his companions . 
Why do you answer me so roughly ? I replied . 
Surely it is not the custom of Englishmen to receive strangers so inhospitably . 
I do not know , said the man , what the custom of the English may be , but it is the custom of the Irish to hate villains . 
While this strange dialogue continued , I perceived the crowd rapidly increase . 
Their faces expressed a mixture of curiosity and anger , which annoyed and in some degree alarmed me . 
I inquired the way to the inn , but no one replied . 
Who is Mr. Kirwin ? Why am I to give an account of myself ? Is not this a free country ? Ay , sir , free enough for honest folks . 
Mr. Kirwin is a magistrate , and you are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was found murdered here last night . 
This answer startled me , but I presently recovered myself . 
I was innocent that could easily be proved accordingly I followed my conductor in silence and was led to one of the best houses in the town . 
Little did I then expect the calamity that was in a few moments to overwhelm me and extinguish in horror and despair all fear of ignominy or death . 
I must pause here , for it requires all my fortitude to recall the memory of the frightful events which I am about to relate , in proper detail , to my recollection . 
Chapter I was soon introduced into the presence of the magistrate , an old benevolent man with calm and mild manners . 
He looked upon me , however , with some degree of severity , and then , turning towards my conductors , he asked who appeared as witnesses on this occasion . 
He walked on first , carrying a part of the fishing tackle , and his companions followed him at some distance . 
As he was proceeding along the sands , he struck his foot against something and fell at his length on the ground . 
They instantly carried it to the cottage of an old woman near the spot and endeavoured , but in vain , to restore it to life . 
It appeared to be a handsome young man , about five and twenty years of age . 
He had apparently been strangled , for there was no sign of any violence except the black mark of fingers on his neck . 
The magistrate observed me with a keen eye and of course drew an unfavourable augury from my manner . 
Another woman confirmed the account of the fishermen having brought the body into her house it was not cold . 
They put it into a bed and rubbed it , and Daniel went to the town for an apothecary , but life was quite gone . 
This idea was probably suggested by the extreme agitation I had exhibited when the mode of the murder had been described . 
I was accordingly conducted , by the magistrate and several other persons , to the inn . 
I entered the room where the corpse lay and was led up to the coffin . 
How can I describe my sensations on beholding it ? I feel yet parched with horror , nor can I reflect on that terrible moment without shuddering and agony . 
The examination , the presence of the magistrate and witnesses , passed like a dream from my memory when I saw the lifeless form of Henry Clerval stretched before me . 
A fever succeeded to this . 
Fortunately , as I spoke my native language , Mr. Kirwin alone understood me but my gestures and bitter cries were sufficient to affright the other witnesses . 
This sound disturbed an old woman who was sleeping in a chair beside me . 
She was a hired nurse , the wife of one of the turnkeys , and her countenance expressed all those bad qualities which often characterize that class . 
The lines of her face were hard and rude , like that of persons accustomed to see without sympathizing in sights of misery . 
Her tone expressed her entire indifference she addressed me in English , and the voice struck me as one that I had heard during my sufferings . 
Are you better now , sir ? said she . 
and it was he who had provided a physician and a nurse . 
He came , therefore , sometimes to see that I was not neglected , but his visits were short and with long intervals . 
One day , while I was gradually recovering , I was seated in a chair , my eyes half open and my cheeks livid like those in death . 
I was overcome by gloom and misery and often reflected I had better seek death than desire to remain in a world which to me was replete with wretchedness . 
At one time I considered whether I should not declare myself guilty and suffer the penalty of the law , less innocent than poor Justine had been . 
Such were my thoughts when the door of my apartment was opened and Mr. Kirwin entered . 
I know that the sympathy of a stranger can be but of little relief to one borne down as you are by so strange a misfortune . 
But you will , I hope , soon quit this melancholy abode , for doubtless evidence can easily be brought to free you from the criminal charge . 
That is my least concern I am , by a course of strange events , become the most miserable of mortals . 
You were thrown , by some surprising accident , on this shore , renowned for its hospitality , seized immediately , and charged with murder . 
As Mr. Kirwin said this , notwithstanding the agitation I endured on this retrospect of my sufferings , I also felt considerable surprise at the knowledge he seemed to possess concerning me . 
I found several letters , and , among others , one which I discovered from its commencement to be from your father . 
I instantly wrote to Geneva nearly two months have elapsed since the departure of my letter . 
But you are ill even now you tremble you are unfit for agitation of any kind . 
My father ! cried I , while every feature and every muscle was relaxed from anguish to pleasure . 
He rose and quitted the room with my nurse , and in a moment my father entered it . 
Nothing , at this moment , could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father . 
What a place is this that you inhabit , my son ! said he , looking mournfully at the barred windows and wretched appearance of the room . 
You travelled to seek happiness , but a fatality seems to pursue you . 
And poor Clerval The name of my unfortunate and murdered friend was an agitation too great to be endured in my weak state I shed tears . 
We were not allowed to converse for any length of time , for the precarious state of my health rendered every precaution necessary that could ensure tranquillity . 
Mr. Kirwin came in and insisted that my strength should not be exhausted by too much exertion . 
But the appearance of my father was to me like that of my good angel , and I gradually recovered my health . 
As my sickness quitted me , I was absorbed by a gloomy and black melancholy that nothing could dissipate . 
The image of Clerval was forever before me , ghastly and murdered . 
More than once the agitation into which these reflections threw me made my friends dread a dangerous relapse . 
Alas ! Why did they preserve so miserable and detested a life ? It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny , which is now drawing to a close . 
The season of the assizes approached . 
Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every care of collecting witnesses and arranging my defence . 
I was spared the disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal , as the case was not brought before the court that decides on life and death . 
I did not participate in these feelings , for to me the walls of a dungeon or a palace were alike hateful . 
My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection . 
He talked of Geneva , which I should soon visit , of Elizabeth and Ernest but these words only drew deep groans from me . 
At these moments I often endeavoured to put an end to the existence I loathed , and it required unceasing attendance and vigilance to restrain me from committing some dreadful act of violence . 
Yet one duty remained to me , the recollection of which finally triumphed over my selfish despair . 
My father still desired to delay our departure , fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a journey , for I was a shattered wreck the shadow of a human being . 
I was a mere skeleton , and fever night and day preyed upon my wasted frame . 
Still , as I urged our leaving Ireland with such inquietude and impatience , my father thought it best to yield . 
We took our passage on board a vessel bound for Havre de Grace and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores . 
I lay on the deck looking at the stars and listening to the dashing of the waves . 
I hailed the darkness that shut Ireland from my sight , and my pulse beat with a feverish joy when I reflected that I should soon see Geneva . 
I repassed , in my memory , my whole life my quiet happiness while residing with my family in Geneva , the death of my mother , and my departure for Ingolstadt . 
I remembered , shuddering , the mad enthusiasm that hurried me on to the creation of my hideous enemy , and I called to mind the night in which he first lived . 
I was unable to pursue the train of thought a thousand feelings pressed upon me , and I wept bitterly . 
Oppressed by the recollection of my various misfortunes , I now swallowed double my usual quantity and soon slept profoundly . 
But sleep did not afford me respite from thought and misery my dreams presented a thousand objects that scared me . 
Towards morning I was possessed by a kind of nightmare I felt the fiend's grasp in my neck and could not free myself from it groans and cries rang in my ears . 
Chapter The voyage came to an end . 
We landed , and proceeded to Paris . 
I soon found that I had overtaxed my strength and that I must repose before I could continue my journey . 
My father's care and attentions were indefatigable , but he did not know the origin of my sufferings and sought erroneous methods to remedy the incurable ill . 
He wished me to seek amusement in society . 
I abhorred the face of man . 
But I felt that I had no right to share their intercourse . 
I had unchained an enemy among them whose joy it was to shed their blood and to revel in their groans . 
Sometimes he thought that I felt deeply the degradation of being obliged to answer a charge of murder , and he endeavoured to prove to me the futility of pride . 
Alas ! My father , said I , how little do you know me . 
Human beings , their feelings and passions , would indeed be degraded if such a wretch as I felt pride . 
Justine , poor unhappy Justine , was as innocent as I , and she suffered the same charge she died for it and I am the cause of this I murdered her . 
William , Justine , and Henry they all died by my hands . 
I avoided explanation and maintained a continual silence concerning the wretch I had created . 
I had a persuasion that I should be supposed mad , and this in itself would forever have chained my tongue . 
But , besides , I could not bring myself to disclose a secret which would fill my hearer with consternation and make fear and unnatural horror the inmates of his breast . 
I checked , therefore , my impatient thirst for sympathy and was silent when I would have given the world to have confided the fatal secret . 
Yet , still , words like those I have recorded would burst uncontrollably from me . 
I could offer no explanation of them , but their truth in part relieved the burden of my mysterious woe . 
I am not mad , I cried energetically the sun and the heavens , who have viewed my operations , can bear witness of my truth . 
I am the assassin of those most innocent victims they died by my machinations . 
The conclusion of this speech convinced my father that my ideas were deranged , and he instantly changed the subject of our conversation and endeavoured to alter the course of my thoughts . 
He wished as much as possible to obliterate the memory of the scenes that had taken place in Ireland and never alluded to them or suffered me to speak of my misfortunes . 
My poor cousin , how much you must have suffered ! I expect to see you looking even more ill than when you quitted Geneva . 
Yet I fear that the same feelings now exist that made you so miserable a year ago , even perhaps augmented by time . 
Explanation ! You may possibly say , What can Elizabeth have to explain ? If you really say this , my questions are answered and all my doubts satisfied . 
You well know , Victor , that our union had been the favourite plan of your parents ever since our infancy . 
We were told this when young , and taught to look forward to it as an event that would certainly take place . 
We were affectionate playfellows during childhood , and , I believe , dear and valued friends to one another as we grew older . 
But as brother and sister often entertain a lively affection towards each other without desiring a more intimate union , may not such also be our case ? Tell me , dearest Victor . 
But this is false reasoning . 
I confess to you , my friend , that I love you and that in my airy dreams of futurity you have been my constant friend and companion . 
I , who have so disinterested an affection for you , may increase your miseries tenfold by being an obstacle to your wishes . 
Ah ! Victor , be assured that your cousin and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to be made miserable by this supposition . 
Be happy , my friend and if you obey me in this one request , remain satisfied that nothing on earth will have the power to interrupt my tranquillity . 
Do not let this letter disturb you do not answer tomorrow , or the next day , or even until you come , if it will give you pain . 
On that night he had determined to consummate his crimes by my death . 
If he were vanquished , I should be a free man . 
Such would be my liberty except that in my Elizabeth I possessed a treasure , alas , balanced by those horrors of remorse and guilt which would pursue me until death . 
Yet I would die to make her happy . 
If the monster executed his threat , death was inevitable yet , again , I considered whether my marriage would hasten my fate . 
In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth . 
My letter was calm and affectionate . 
I fear , my beloved girl , I said , little happiness remains for us on earth yet all that I may one day enjoy is centred in you . 
Chase away your idle fears to you alone do I consecrate my life and my endeavours for contentment . 
I will confide this tale of misery and terror to you the day after our marriage shall take place , for , my sweet cousin , there must be perfect confidence between us . 
But until then , I conjure you , do not mention or allude to it . 
This I most earnestly entreat , and I know you will comply . 
In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth's letter we returned to Geneva . 
The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection , yet tears were in her eyes as she beheld my emaciated frame and feverish cheeks . 
I saw a change in her also . 
The tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not endure . 
Memory brought madness with it , and when I thought of what had passed , a real insanity possessed me sometimes I was furious and burnt with rage , sometimes low and despondent . 
I neither spoke nor looked at anyone , but sat motionless , bewildered by the multitude of miseries that overcame me . 
Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits her gentle voice would soothe me when transported by passion and inspire me with human feelings when sunk in torpor . 
She wept with me and for me . 
When reason returned , she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with resignation . 
Ah ! It is well for the unfortunate to be resigned , but for the guilty there is no peace . 
The agonies of remorse poison the luxury there is otherwise sometimes found in indulging the excess of grief . 
Soon after my arrival my father spoke of my immediate marriage with Elizabeth . 
Have you , then , some other attachment ? None on earth . 
I love Elizabeth and look forward to our union with delight . 
Let the day therefore be fixed and on it I will consecrate myself , in life or death , to the happiness of my cousin . 
My dear Victor , do not speak thus . 
Heavy misfortunes have befallen us , but let us only cling closer to what remains and transfer our love for those whom we have lost to those who yet live . 
Our circle will be small but bound close by the ties of affection and mutual misfortune . 
And when time shall have softened your despair , new and dear objects of care will be born to replace those of whom we have been so cruelly deprived . 
Such were the lessons of my father . 
As the period fixed for our marriage drew nearer , whether from cowardice or a prophetic feeling , I felt my heart sink within me . 
But I concealed my feelings by an appearance of hilarity that brought smiles and joy to the countenance of my father , but hardly deceived the everwatchful and nicer eye of Elizabeth . 
Preparations were made for the event , congratulatory visits were received , and all wore a smiling appearance . 
Through my father's exertions a part of the inheritance of Elizabeth had been restored to her by the Austrian government . 
A small possession on the shores of Como belonged to her . 
It was agreed that , immediately after our union , we should proceed to Villa Lavenza and spend our first days of happiness beside the beautiful lake near which it stood . 
In the meantime I took every precaution to defend my person in case the fiend should openly attack me . 
I carried pistols and a dagger constantly about me and was ever on the watch to prevent artifice , and by these means gained a greater degree of tranquillity . 
Elizabeth seemed happy my tranquil demeanour contributed greatly to calm her mind . 
My father was in the meantime overjoyed and in the bustle of preparation only recognized in the melancholy of his niece the diffidence of a bride . 
The day was fair , the wind favourable all smiled on our nuptial embarkation . 
Those were the last moments of my life during which I enjoyed the feeling of happiness . 
I took the hand of Elizabeth . 
You are sorrowful , my love . 
Something whispers to me not to depend too much on the prospect that is opened before us , but I will not listen to such a sinister voice . 
Observe how fast we move along and how the clouds , which sometimes obscure and sometimes rise above the dome of Mont Blanc , render this scene of beauty still more interesting . 
Look also at the innumerable fish that are swimming in the clear waters , where we can distinguish every pebble that lies at the bottom . 
What a divine day ! How happy and serene all nature appears ! Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all reflection upon melancholy subjects . 
But her temper was fluctuating joy for a few instants shone in her eyes , but it continually gave place to distraction and reverie . 
The sun sank lower in the heavens we passed the river Drance and observed its path through the chasms of the higher and the glens of the lower hills . 
The Alps here come closer to the lake , and we approached the amphitheatre of mountains which forms its eastern boundary . 
The spire of Evian shone under the woods that surrounded it and the range of mountain above mountain by which it was overhung . 
The wind , which had fallen in the south , now rose with great violence in the west . 
Suddenly a heavy storm of rain descended . 
I had been calm during the day , but so soon as night obscured the shapes of objects , a thousand fears arose in my mind . 
She left me , and I continued some time walking up and down the passages of the house and inspecting every corner that might afford a retreat to my adversary . 
It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired . 
This state lasted but for an instant the scream was repeated , and I rushed into the room . 
Everywhere I turn I see the same figure her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung by the murderer on its bridal bier . 
Could I behold this and live ? Alas ! Life is obstinate and clings closest where it is most hated . 
For a moment only did I lose recollection I fell senseless on the ground . 
I escaped from them to the room where lay the body of Elizabeth , my love , my wife , so lately living , so dear , so worthy . 
The murderous mark of the fiend's grasp was on her neck , and the breath had ceased to issue from her lips . 
While I still hung over her in the agony of despair , I happened to look up . 
The windows of the room had before been darkened , and I felt a kind of panic on seeing the pale yellow light of the moon illuminate the chamber . 
The shutters had been thrown back , and with a sensation of horror not to be described , I saw at the open window a figure the most hideous and abhorred . 
A grin was on the face of the monster he seemed to jeer , as with his fiendish finger he pointed towards the corpse of my wife . 
The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room . 
I pointed to the spot where he had disappeared , and we followed the track with boats nets were cast , but in vain . 
After passing several hours , we returned hopeless , most of my companions believing it to have been a form conjured up by my fancy . 
After having landed , they proceeded to search the country , parties going in different directions among the woods and vines . 
After an interval I arose , and as if by instinct , crawled into the room where the corpse of my beloved lay . 
I was bewildered , in a cloud of wonder and horror . 
This idea made me shudder and recalled me to action . 
I started up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed . 
There were no horses to be procured , and I must return by the lake but the wind was unfavourable , and the rain fell in torrents . 
However , it was hardly morning , and I might reasonably hope to arrive by night . 
I hired men to row and took an oar myself , for I had always experienced relief from mental torment in bodily exercise . 
But the overflowing misery I now felt , and the excess of agitation that I endured rendered me incapable of any exertion . 
I threw down the oar , and leaning my head upon my hands , gave way to every gloomy idea that arose . 
Tears streamed from my eyes . 
The rain had ceased for a moment , and I saw the fish play in the waters as they had done a few hours before they had then been observed by Elizabeth . 
Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden change . 
The sun might shine or the clouds might lower , but nothing could appear to me as it had done the day before . 
A fiend had snatched from me every hope of future happiness no creature had ever been so miserable as I was so frightful an event is single in the history of man . 
Know that , one by one , my friends were snatched away I was left desolate . 
My own strength is exhausted , and I must tell , in a few words , what remains of my hideous narration . 
My father and Ernest yet lived , but the former sunk under the tidings that I bore . 
What then became of me ? I know not I lost sensation , and chains and darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me . 
Sometimes , indeed , I dreamt that I wandered in flowery meadows and pleasant vales with the friends of my youth , but I awoke and found myself in a dungeon . 
Melancholy followed , but by degrees I gained a clear conception of my miseries and situation and was then released from my prison . 
For they had called me mad , and during many months , as I understood , a solitary cell had been my habitation . 
Liberty , however , had been a useless gift to me , had I not , as I awakened to reason , at the same time awakened to revenge . 
The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness . 
Be assured , sir , said he , no pains or exertions on my part shall be spared to discover the villain . 
I thank you , replied I listen , therefore , to the deposition that I have to make . 
It is indeed a tale so strange that I should fear you would not credit it were there not something in truth which , however wonderful , forces conviction . 
The story is too connected to be mistaken for a dream , and I have no motive for falsehood . 
I now related my history briefly but with firmness and precision , marking the dates with accuracy and never deviating into invective or exclamation . 
When I had concluded my narration I said , This is the being whom I accuse and for whose seizure and punishment I call upon you to exert your whole power . 
It is your duty as a magistrate , and I believe and hope that your feelings as a man will not revolt from the execution of those functions on this occasion . 
This address caused a considerable change in the physiognomy of my own auditor . 
But I perceive your thoughts you do not credit my narrative and do not intend to pursue my enemy with the punishment which is his desert . 
As I spoke , rage sparkled in my eyes the magistrate was intimidated . 
You are mistaken , said he . 
I will exert myself , and if it is in my power to seize the monster , be assured that he shall suffer punishment proportionate to his crimes . 
That cannot be but all that I can say will be of little avail . 
My revenge is of no moment to you yet , while I allow it to be a vice , I confess that it is the devouring and only passion of my soul . 
My rage is unspeakable when I reflect that the murderer , whom I have turned loose upon society , still exists . 
You refuse my just demand I have but one resource , and I devote myself , either in my life or death , to his destruction . 
But to a Genevan magistrate , whose mind was occupied by far other ideas than those of devotion and heroism , this elevation of mind had much the appearance of madness . 
He endeavoured to soothe me as a nurse does a child and reverted to my tale as the effects of delirium . 
Man , I cried , how ignorant art thou in thy pride of wisdom ! Cease you know not what it is you say . 
I broke from the house angry and disturbed and retired to meditate on some other mode of action . 
Chapter My present situation was one in which all voluntary thought was swallowed up and lost . 
My first resolution was to quit Geneva forever my country , which , when I was happy and beloved , was dear to me , now , in my adversity , became hateful . 
I provided myself with a sum of money , together with a few jewels which had belonged to my mother , and departed . 
And now my wanderings began which are to cease but with life . 
I have traversed a vast portion of the earth and have endured all the hardships which travellers in deserts and barbarous countries are wont to meet . 
How I have lived I hardly know many times have I stretched my failing limbs upon the sandy plain and prayed for death . 
But revenge kept me alive I dared not die and leave my adversary in being . 
When I quitted Geneva my first labour was to gain some clue by which I might trace the steps of my fiendish enemy . 
But my plan was unsettled , and I wandered many hours round the confines of the town , uncertain what path I should pursue . 
As night approached I found myself at the entrance of the cemetery where William , Elizabeth , and my father reposed . 
I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their graves . 
The spirits of the departed seemed to flit around and to cast a shadow , which was felt but not seen , around the head of the mourner . 
The deep grief which this scene had at first excited quickly gave way to rage and despair . 
They were dead , and I lived their murderer also lived , and to destroy him I must drag out my weary existence . 
And I call on you , spirits of the dead , and on you , wandering ministers of vengeance , to aid and conduct me in my work . 
Let the cursed and hellish monster drink deep of agony let him feel the despair that now torments me . 
I was answered through the stillness of night by a loud and fiendish laugh . 
It rang on my ears long and heavily the mountains re echoed it , and I felt as if all hell surrounded me with mockery and laughter . 
Surely in that moment I should have been possessed by frenzy and have destroyed my miserable existence but that my vow was heard and that I was reserved for vengeance . 
I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded , but the devil eluded my grasp . 
Suddenly the broad disk of the moon arose and shone full upon his ghastly and distorted shape as he fled with more than mortal speed . 
I pursued him , and for many months this has been my task . 
Guided by a slight clue , I followed the windings of the Rhone , but vainly . 
The blue Mediterranean appeared , and by a strange chance , I saw the fiend enter by night and hide himself in a vessel bound for the Black Sea . 
I took my passage in the same ship , but he escaped , I know not how . 
Amidst the wilds of Tartary and Russia , although he still evaded me , I have ever followed in his track . 
The snows descended on my head , and I saw the print of his huge step on the white plain . 
Sometimes , when nature , overcome by hunger , sank under the exhaustion , a repast was prepared for me in the desert that restored and inspirited me . 
I followed , when I could , the courses of the rivers but the daemon generally avoided these , as it was here that the population of the country chiefly collected . 
In other places human beings were seldom seen , and I generally subsisted on the wild animals that crossed my path . 
My life , as it passed thus , was indeed hateful to me , and it was during sleep alone that I could taste joy . 
O blessed sleep ! Often , when most miserable , I sank to repose , and my dreams lulled me even to rapture . 
The spirits that guarded me had provided these moments , or rather hours , of happiness that I might retain strength to fulfil my pilgrimage . 
Deprived of this respite , I should have sunk under my hardships . 
What his feelings were whom I pursued I cannot know . 
Sometimes , indeed , he left marks in writing on the barks of the trees or cut in stone that guided me and instigated my fury . 
My reign is not yet over these words were legible in one of these inscriptions you live , and my power is complete . 
Follow me I seek the everlasting ices of the north , where you will feel the misery of cold and frost , to which I am impassive . 
You will find near this place , if you follow not too tardily , a dead hare eat and be refreshed . 
Come on , my enemy we have yet to wrestle for our lives , but many hard and miserable hours must you endure until that period shall arrive . 
Scoffing devil ! Again do I vow vengeance again do I devote thee , miserable fiend , to torture and death . 
The rivers were covered with ice , and no fish could be procured and thus I was cut off from my chief article of maintenance . 
The triumph of my enemy increased with the difficulty of my labours . 
Oh ! How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the south ! Covered with ice , it was only to be distinguished from land by its superior wildness and ruggedness . 
The Greeks wept for joy when they beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia , and hailed with rapture the boundary of their toils . 
Some weeks before this period I had procured a sledge and dogs and thus traversed the snows with inconceivable speed . 
With new courage , therefore , I pressed on , and in two days arrived at a wretched hamlet on the seashore . 
I inquired of the inhabitants concerning the fiend and gained accurate information . 
On hearing this information I suffered a temporary access of despair . 
Yet at the idea that the fiend should live and be triumphant , my rage and vengeance returned , and like a mighty tide , overwhelmed every other feeling . 
After a slight repose , during which the spirits of the dead hovered round and instigated me to toil and revenge , I prepared for my journey . 
I exchanged my land sledge for one fashioned for the inequalities of the frozen ocean , and purchasing a plentiful stock of provisions , I departed from land . 
Immense and rugged mountains of ice often barred up my passage , and I often heard the thunder of the ground sea , which threatened my destruction . 
But again the frost came and made the paths of the sea secure . 
Despair had indeed almost secured her prey , and I should soon have sunk beneath this misery . 
I strained my sight to discover what it could be and uttered a wild cry of ecstasy when I distinguished a sledge and the distorted proportions of a well known form within . 
The sledge was still visible , nor did I again lose sight of it except at the moments when for a short time some ice rock concealed it with its intervening crags . 
I indeed perceptibly gained on it , and when , after nearly two days' journey , I beheld my enemy at no more than a mile distant , my heart bounded within me . 
A ground sea was heard the thunder of its progress , as the waters rolled and swelled beneath me , became every moment more ominous and terrific . 
I pressed on , but in vain . 
The wind arose the sea roared and , as with the mighty shock of an earthquake , it split and cracked with a tremendous and overwhelming sound . 
I had no conception that vessels ever came so far north and was astounded at the sight . 
I quickly destroyed part of my sledge to construct oars , and by these means was enabled , with infinite fatigue , to move my ice raft in the direction of your ship . 
I had determined , if you were going southwards , still to trust myself to the mercy of the seas rather than abandon my purpose . 
I hoped to induce you to grant me a boat with which I could pursue my enemy . 
But your direction was northwards . 
And do I dare to ask of you to undertake my pilgrimage , to endure the hardships that I have undergone ? No I am not so selfish . 
He is eloquent and persuasive , and once his words had even power over my heart but trust him not . 
His soul is as hellish as his form , full of treachery and fiendlike malice . 
Hear him not call on the names of William , Justine , Clerval , Elizabeth , my father , and of the wretched Victor , and thrust your sword into his heart . 
I will hover near and direct the steel aright . 
His fine and lovely eyes were now lighted up with indignation , now subdued to downcast sorrow and quenched in infinite wretchedness . 
Such a monster has , then , really existence ! I cannot doubt it , yet I am lost in surprise and admiration . 
Sometimes I endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the particulars of his creature's formation , but on this point he was impenetrable . 
Are you mad , my friend ? said he . 
Since you have preserved my narration , said he , I would not that a mutilated one should go down to posterity . 
Thus has a week passed away , while I have listened to the strangest tale that ever imagination formed . 
My thoughts and every feeling of my soul have been drunk up by the interest for my guest which this tale and his own elevated and gentle manners have created . 
This faith gives a solemnity to his reveries that render them to me almost as imposing and interesting as truth . 
Our conversations are not always confined to his own history and misfortunes . 
On every point of general literature he displays unbounded knowledge and a quick and piercing apprehension . 
His eloquence is forcible and touching nor can I hear him , when he relates a pathetic incident or endeavours to move the passions of pity or love , without tears . 
When younger , said he , I believed myself destined for some great enterprise . 
My feelings are profound , but I possessed a coolness of judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements . 
But this thought , which supported me in the commencement of my career , now serves only to plunge me lower in the dust . 
All my speculations and hopes are as nothing , and like the archangel who aspired to omnipotence , I am chained in an eternal hell . 
My imagination was vivid , yet my powers of analysis and application were intense by the union of these qualities I conceived the idea and executed the creation of a man . 
Even now I cannot recollect without passion my reveries while the work was incomplete . 
I trod heaven in my thoughts , now exulting in my powers , now burning with the idea of their effects . 
Despondency rarely visited my heart a high destiny seemed to bear me on , until I fell , never , never again to rise . 
Must I then lose this admirable being ? I have longed for a friend I have sought one who would sympathize with and love me . 
Behold , on these desert seas I have found such a one , but I fear I have gained him only to know his value and lose him . 
I would reconcile him to life , but he repulses the idea . 
They are dead , and but one feeling in such a solitude can persuade me to preserve my life . 
If I were engaged in any high undertaking or design , fraught with extensive utility to my fellow creatures , then could I live to fulfil it . 
But such is not my destiny I must pursue and destroy the being to whom I gave existence then my lot on earth will be fulfilled and I may die . 
My beloved Sister , September nd I write to you , encompassed by peril and ignorant whether I am ever doomed to see again dear England and the dearer friends that inhabit it . 
I am surrounded by mountains of ice which admit of no escape and threaten every moment to crush my vessel . 
The brave fellows whom I have persuaded to be my companions look towards me for aid , but I have none to bestow . 
There is something terribly appalling in our situation , yet my courage and hopes do not desert me . 
Yet it is terrible to reflect that the lives of all these men are endangered through me . 
If we are lost , my mad schemes are the cause . 
And what , Margaret , will be the state of your mind ? You will not hear of my destruction , and you will anxiously await my return . 
Years will pass , and you will have visitings of despair and yet be tortured by hope . 
Oh ! My beloved sister , the sickening failing of your heart felt expectations is , in prospect , more terrible to me than my own death . 
But you have a husband and lovely children you may be happy . 
Heaven bless you and make you so ! My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion . 
He endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession which he valued . 
He reminds me how often the same accidents have happened to other navigators who have attempted this sea , and in spite of myself , he fills me with cheerful auguries . 
These feelings are transitory each day of expectation delayed fills them with fear , and I almost dread a mutiny caused by this despair . 
September th A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that , although it is highly probable that these papers may never reach you , yet I cannot forbear recording it . 
We are still surrounded by mountains of ice , still in imminent danger of being crushed in their conflict . 
The cold is excessive , and many of my unfortunate comrades have already found a grave amidst this scene of desolation . 
I mentioned in my last letter the fears I entertained of a mutiny . 
They entered , and their leader addressed me . 
They insisted , therefore , that I should engage with a solemn promise that if the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my course southwards . 
I had not despaired , nor had I yet conceived the idea of returning if set free . 
For this was it a glorious , for this was it an honourable undertaking . 
You were hereafter to be hailed as the benefactors of your species , your names adored as belonging to brave men who encountered death for honour and the benefit of mankind . 
Why , that requires not this preparation ye need not have come thus far and dragged your captain to the shame of a defeat merely to prove yourselves cowards . 
Oh ! Be men , or be more than men . 
Be steady to your purposes and firm as a rock . 
This ice is not made of such stuff as your hearts may be it is mutable and cannot withstand you if you say that it shall not . 
Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace marked on your brows . 
Return as heroes who have fought and conquered and who know not what it is to turn their backs on the foe . 
They retired and I turned towards my friend , but he was sunk in languor and almost deprived of life . 
How all this will terminate , I know not , but I had rather die than return shamefully , my purpose unfulfilled . 
Yet I fear such will be my fate the men , unsupported by ideas of glory and honour , can never willingly continue to endure their present hardships . 
September th The die is cast I have consented to return if we are not destroyed . 
Thus are my hopes blasted by cowardice and indecision I come back ignorant and disappointed . 
It requires more philosophy than I possess to bear this injustice with patience . 
September th It is past I am returning to England . 
I have lost my hopes of utility and glory I have lost my friend . 
But I will endeavour to detail these bitter circumstances to you , my dear sister and while I am wafted towards England and towards you , I will not despond . 
September th , the ice began to move , and roarings like thunder were heard at a distance as the islands split and cracked in every direction . 
The ice cracked behind us and was driven with force towards the north a breeze sprang from the west , and on the th the passage towards the south became perfectly free . 
When the sailors saw this and that their return to their native country was apparently assured , a shout of tumultuous joy broke from them , loud and long continued . 
Frankenstein , who was dozing , awoke and asked the cause of the tumult . 
They shout , I said , because they will soon return to England . 
Do you , then , really return ? Alas ! Yes I cannot withstand their demands . 
I cannot lead them unwillingly to danger , and I must return . 
Do so , if you will but I will not . 
You may give up your purpose , but mine is assigned to me by heaven , and I dare not . 
I am weak , but surely the spirits who assist my vengeance will endow me with sufficient strength . 
Saying this , he endeavoured to spring from the bed , but the exertion was too great for him he fell back and fainted . 
It was long before he was restored , and I often thought that life was entirely extinct . 
At length he opened his eyes he breathed with difficulty and was unable to speak . 
The surgeon gave him a composing draught and ordered us to leave him undisturbed . 
In the meantime he told me that my friend had certainly not many hours to live . 
His sentence was pronounced , and I could only grieve and be patient . 
During these last days I have been occupied in examining my past conduct nor do I find it blamable . 
In a fit of enthusiastic madness I created a rational creature and was bound towards him to assure , as far as was in my power , his happiness and well being . 
This was my duty , but there was another still paramount to that . 
My duties towards the beings of my own species had greater claims to my attention because they included a greater proportion of happiness or misery . 
Urged by this view , I refused , and I did right in refusing , to create a companion for the first creature . 
Miserable himself that he may render no other wretched , he ought to die . 
The task of his destruction was mine , but I have failed . 
When actuated by selfish and vicious motives , I asked you to undertake my unfinished work , and I renew this request now , when I am only induced by reason and virtue . 
Yet I cannot ask you to renounce your country and friends to fulfil this task and now that you are returning to England , you will have little chance of meeting with him . 
I dare not ask you to do what I think right , for I may still be misled by passion . 
The forms of the beloved dead flit before me , and I hasten to their arms . 
Farewell , Walton ! Seek happiness in tranquillity and avoid ambition , even if it be only the apparently innocent one of distinguishing yourself in science and discoveries . 
Yet why do I say this ? I have myself been blasted in these hopes , yet another may succeed . 
His voice became fainter as he spoke , and at length , exhausted by his effort , he sank into silence . 
My tears flow my mind is overshadowed by a cloud of disappointment . 
But I journey towards England , and I may there find consolation . 
What do these sounds portend ? It is midnight the breeze blows fairly , and the watch on deck scarcely stir . 
Again there is a sound as of a human voice , but hoarser it comes from the cabin where the remains of Frankenstein still lie . 
I must arise and examine . 
Good night , my sister . 
Great God ! what a scene has just taken place ! I am yet dizzy with the remembrance of it . 
I hardly know whether I shall have the power to detail it yet the tale which I have recorded would be incomplete without this final and wonderful catastrophe . 
I entered the cabin where lay the remains of my ill fated and admirable friend . 
Over him hung a form which I cannot find words to describe gigantic in stature , yet uncouth and distorted in its proportions . 
When he heard the sound of my approach , he ceased to utter exclamations of grief and horror and sprung towards the window . 
Never did I behold a vision so horrible as his face , of such loathsome yet appalling hideousness . 
I shut my eyes involuntarily and endeavoured to recollect what were my duties with regard to this destroyer . 
I called on him to stay . 
That is also my victim ! he exclaimed . 
Alas ! He is cold , he cannot answer me . 
I approached this tremendous being I dared not again raise my eyes to his face , there was something so scaring and unearthly in his ugliness . 
I attempted to speak , but the words died away on my lips . 
The monster continued to utter wild and incoherent self reproaches . 
At length I gathered resolution to address him in a pause of the tempest of his passion . 
Your repentance , I said , is now superfluous . 
If you had listened to the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse before you had urged your diabolical vengeance to this extremity , Frankenstein would yet have lived . 
And do you dream ? said the daemon . 
Do you think that I was then dead to agony and remorse ? He , he continued , pointing to the corpse , he suffered not in the consummation of the deed . 
Oh ! Not the ten thousandth portion of the anguish that was mine during the lingering detail of its execution . 
A frightful selfishness hurried me on , while my heart was poisoned with remorse . 
After the murder of Clerval I returned to Switzerland , heart broken and overcome . 
I pitied Frankenstein my pity amounted to horror I abhorred myself . 
I recollected my threat and resolved that it should be accomplished . 
I knew that I was preparing for myself a deadly torture , but I was the slave , not the master , of an impulse which I detested yet could not disobey . 
Yet when she died ! Nay , then I was not miserable . 
I had cast off all feeling , subdued all anguish , to riot in the excess of my despair . 
Evil thenceforth became my good . 
Urged thus far , I had no choice but to adapt my nature to an element which I had willingly chosen . 
The completion of my demoniacal design became an insatiable passion . 
It is well that you come here to whine over the desolation that you have made . 
You throw a torch into a pile of buildings , and when they are consumed , you sit among the ruins and lament the fall . 
Hypocritical fiend ! If he whom you mourn still lived , still would he be the object , again would he become the prey , of your accursed vengeance . 
It is not pity that you feel you lament only because the victim of your malignity is withdrawn from your power . 
Oh , it is not thus not thus , interrupted the being . 
Yet such must be the impression conveyed to you by what appears to be the purport of my actions . 
Yet I seek not a fellow feeling in my misery . 
No sympathy may I ever find . 
When I first sought it , it was the love of virtue , the feelings of happiness and affection with which my whole being overflowed , that I wished to be participated . 
Once my fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue , of fame , and of enjoyment . 
Once I falsely hoped to meet with beings who , pardoning my outward form , would love me for the excellent qualities which I was capable of unfolding . 
I was nourished with high thoughts of honour and devotion . 
But now crime has degraded me beneath the meanest animal . 
No guilt , no mischief , no malignity , no misery , can be found comparable to mine . 
But it is even so the fallen angel becomes a malignant devil . 
Yet even that enemy of God and man had friends and associates in his desolation I am alone . 
You , who call Frankenstein your friend , seem to have a knowledge of my crimes and his misfortunes . 
But in the detail which he gave you of them he could not sum up the hours and months of misery which I endured wasting in impotent passions . 
For while I destroyed his hopes , I did not satisfy my own desires . 
They were forever ardent and craving still I desired love and fellowship , and I was still spurned . 
Even now my blood boils at the recollection of this injustice . 
But it is true that I am a wretch . 
I have murdered the lovely and the helpless I have strangled the innocent as they slept and grasped to death his throat who never injured me or any other living thing . 
I have devoted my creator , the select specimen of all that is worthy of love and admiration among men , to misery I have pursued him even to that irremediable ruin . 
There he lies , white and cold in death . 
You hate me , but your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself . 
Fear not that I shall be the instrument of future mischief . 
My work is nearly complete . 
Neither yours nor any man's death is needed to consummate the series of my being and accomplish that which must be done , but it requires my own . 
Do not think that I shall be slow to perform this sacrifice . 
I shall no longer feel the agonies which now consume me or be the prey of feelings unsatisfied , yet unquenched . 
He is dead who called me into being and when I shall be no more , the very remembrance of us both will speedily vanish . 
I shall no longer see the sun or stars or feel the winds play on my cheeks . 
Light , feeling , and sense will pass away and in this condition must I find my happiness . 
Farewell , Frankenstein ! If thou wert yet alive and yet cherished a desire of revenge against me , it would be better satiated in my life than in my destruction . 
Blasted as thou wert , my agony was still superior to thine , for the bitter sting of remorse will not cease to rankle in my wounds until death shall close them forever . 
But soon , he cried with sad and solemn enthusiasm , I shall die , and what I now feel be no longer felt . 
Soon these burning miseries will be extinct . 
I shall ascend my funeral pile triumphantly and exult in the agony of the torturing flames . 
The light of that conflagration will fade away my ashes will be swept into the sea by the winds . 
My spirit will sleep in peace , or if it thinks , it will not surely think thus . 
He sprang from the cabin window as he said this , upon the ice raft which lay close to the vessel . 
He was soon borne away by the waves and lost in darkness and distance . 
