Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
WHY MEN DON'T MARRY III . 
A CHANGE OF HEART IV . 
A REPENTANT SINNER V. 'TWIXT WILL AND WILL NOT VI . 
WHICH SHALL IT BE ? VII . 
ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL Cupid , I met thee yesterday With an empty quiver , Coming from Clarinda's house By the reedy river . 
And I saw Clarinda stand Near the pansies , weeping , With her hands upon her breast All thine arrows keeping . 
I. Neither life nor the lawn tennis club was so full at Natterley that the news of Harry Sterling's return had not some importance . 
He came back , moreover , to assume a position very different from his old one . 
He had left Harrow now , departing in the sweet aroma of a long score against Eton at Lord's , and was to go up to Oxford in October . 
Presently Harry , shaking himself free from an entangling group of the Vicarage girls , joined his father , and the two came across to Mrs. Mortimer . 
She was a favorite of old Sterling's , and he was proud to present his handsome son to her . 
She listened graciously to his jocosities , stealing a glance at Harry when his father called him a good boy . 
Harry blushed and assumed an air of indifference , tossing his hair back from his smooth forehead , and swinging his racket carelessly in his hand . 
The lady addressed some words of patronizing kindness to him , seeking to put him at his ease . 
He said nothing , and Mrs. Mortimer looked at him from under her long lashes in so doing she discovered that he was looking at her . 
Aren't you going to play any more , Mr. Sterling ? she asked . 
Why aren't you playing ? he rejoined . 
My husband says I play too badly . 
Oh , play with me ! We shall make a good pair . 
Then you must be very good . 
Well , no one can play a hang here , you know . 
Besides I'm sure you're all right , really . 
You forget my weight of years . 
He opened his blue eyes a little , and laughed . 
He was , in fact , astonished to find that she was quite a young woman . 
Remembering old Mortimer and the babies , he had thought of her as full middle aged . 
But she was not nor had she that likeness to a suet pudding , which his newborn critical faculty cruelly detected in his old friends , the Vicarage girls . 
He felt very much older , so much older that Mrs. Mortimer became at once a contemporary . 
She was glad that she had not played she could not have rivaled the activity of the Vicarage girls . 
She got up and joined Mrs. Sterling , who was presiding over the club teapot . 
The good lady expected compliments on her son , but for some reason Mrs. Mortimer gave her none . 
Very soon , indeed , she took Johnnie away with her , leaving her husband to follow at his leisure . 
In comparing Maudie Sinclair to a suet pudding , Harry had looked at the dark side of the matter . 
The suggestion , though indisputable , was only occasionally obtrusive , and as a rule hushed almost to silence by the pleasant good nature which redeemed shapeless features . 
Mrs. Mortimer had always liked Maudie , who ran in and out of her house continually , and had made of herself a vice mother to the little children . 
She went so far as to use the term stuck up . 
He didn't use to be like that , she said , shaking her head he used to be very jolly . 
Mrs. Mortimer was relieved to note an entire absence of romance either in the regretted past or the condemned present . 
You will be able to make it up then , said she . 
Why , I see him every day at the tennis club , cried Maudie in surprise . 
The faintest of blushes tinged Mrs. Mortimer's cheek as she chid herself for forgetting this obvious fact . 
The situation now developed rapidly . 
The absurd thing happened Harry Sterling began to take a serious view of his attachment to Mrs. Mortimer . 
Harry gave her no opportunity of saying so to him , for you cannot reprove glances or discourage pressings of your hand in fashion so blunt . 
And he was very discreet he never made her look foolish . 
Certainly he came pretty frequently between the hours named , but it was , as the children could have witnessed , to play with them . 
And , through his comings and goings , Mrs. Mortimer moved with pleasure , vexation , self contempt , and eagerness . 
One night she and her husband went to dine with the Sterlings . 
After dinner Mr. Mortimer accepted his host's invitation to stay for a smoke . 
He saw no difficulty in his wife walking home alone it was but half a mile , and the night was fine and moonlit . 
Mrs. Mortimer made no difficulty either , but Mrs. Sterling was sure that Harry would be delighted to see Mrs. Mortimer to her house . 
The path diverging to the latter route comes very soon after you leave the Sterlings' , and not a word had passed when Mrs. Mortimer and Harry reached it . 
Still without a word , Harry turned off to follow the path . 
Mrs. Mortimer glanced at him Harry smiled . 
It's much longer , she said . 
There's lots of time , rejoined Harry , and it's such a jolly night . 
The better to enjoy the night's beauty , he slackened his pace to a very crawl . 
It's rather dark won't you take my arm ? he said . 
What nonsense ! Why , I could see to read ! But I'm sure you're tired . 
How absurd you are ! Was it a great bore ? What ? Why , coming . 
In such affairs monosyllables are danger signals . 
A long protestation might have meant nothing in this short , sufficient negative Mrs. Mortimer recognized the boy's sincerity . 
A little thrill of pride and shame , and perhaps something else , ran through her . 
The night was hot and she unfastened the clasp of her cloak , breathing a trifle quickly . 
To relieve the silence , she said , with a laugh You see we poor married women have to depend on charity . 
Our husbands don't care to walk home with us . 
Your father was bent on your coming . 
Harry laughed a short laugh the utter darkness of Mr. Sterling's condition struck through his agitation down to his sense of humor . 
Mrs. Mortimer smiled at him she could not help it the secret between them was so pleasant to her , even while she hated herself for its existence . 
They had reached the meadow now , halfway through their journey . 
A little gate led into it and Harry stopped , leaning his arm on the top rail . 
Oh , no ! we must go on , she murmured . 
They won't move for an hour yet , he answered , and then he suddenly broke out How how funny it is ! I hardly remembered you , you know . 
Oh , but I remembered you , a pretty little boy and she looked up at his face , half a foot above her . 
Mere stature has much effect and the little boy stage seemed very far away . 
And he knew that it did , for he put out his hand to take hers . 
She took hold of the gate and he , yielding his place , let her pass through . 
For a minute or two they walked on in silence . 
Oh , how silly you are ! she cried then , beginning with a laugh and ending with a strange catch in her throat . 
He seized her hand , not to be quelled this time , and , bending low over it , kissed it . 
She did not draw it away , but watched him with a curious , pained smile . 
He looked up in her face , his own glowing with excitement . 
He righted himself to his full stature and , from that stooping , kissed her on the lips . 
Oh , you silly boy ! she moaned , and found herself alone in the meadow . 
He had gone swiftly back by the way they had come , and she went on to her home . 
Well , the boy saw you home ? asked Mr. Mortimer when he arrived half an hour later . 
Yes , she said , raising her head from the cushions of the sofa on which he found her lying . 
I supposed so , but he didn't come into the smoking room when he got back . 
Went straight to bed , I expect . 
He's a nice mannered young fellow , isn't he ? Oh , very ! said Mrs. Mortimer . 
Mr. Mortimer had never been so looked after , cosseted , and comforted for his early start as the next morning , nor the children found their mother so patient and affectionate . 
She was in an abasement of shame and disgust at herself , and quite unable to treat her transgression lightly . 
Probably , by now , he recognized his foolishness , and laughed at himself and her . 
This thought made her no happier , for men may do all that and yet , very often , they do not stop . 
She had to go to a party at the Vicarage in the afternoon . 
She found herself almost grudging Johnnie his rapidly increasing inches , even while she relied on him for an assertion of her position as a matron . 
He was talking to Maudie Sinclair when she arrived he took off his hat , but did not allow his eyes to meet hers . 
She gathered her children round her , and sat down among the chaperons . 
He's been such a good boy till now , said Mrs. Sterling , but , of course , his father and I feel anxious . 
If we could only keep him here , out of harm's way , under our own eyes ! Mrs. Mortimer murmured consolation . 
How kind of you ! And your influence is so good for him . 
He thinks such a lot of you , Hilda . 
Mrs. Mortimer , tried too hard , rose and strolled away . 
Harry's set seemed to end almost directly , and a moment later he was shaking hands with her , still keeping his eyes away from hers . 
She made her grasp cold and inanimate , and he divined the displeasure she meant to indicate . 
You must go and play again , she said , or talk to the girls . 
You mustn't come and talk to me . 
Don't , she answered sharply . 
You were very unkind and and ungentlemanly last night . 
Didn't you like it ? he asked , with the terrible simplicity of his youth . 
For all her trouble , she had to bite her lip to hide a smile . 
What a question to ask just in so many words ! It was very , very wicked , and , of course , I didn't like it , she answered . 
Well , then ! she said . 
Oh , don't you know oh , it's absurd ! I'm years older than you . 
You looked so so awfully pretty . 
I can't stand talking to you . 
Oh , it's all right . 
You're a friend of mother's , you know . 
I say , when shall I be able to see you again alone , you know ? Mrs. Mortimer was within an ace of a burst of tears . 
He seemed not to know that he made her faint with shame , and mad with exultation , and bewildered with terror all in a moment . 
His new manhood took no heed , save of itself . 
He looked at her in wonder , but , with a frown on his face , did as he was told . 
Five minutes later he was playing again she heard him shout Thirty love , as he served , a note of triumphant battle in his voice . 
She believed that she was altogether out of his thoughts . 
Her husband was to dine in town that night , and , for sheer protection , she made Maudie Sinclair come and share her evening meal . 
The children were put to bed , and they sat down alone together , talking over the party . 
Maudie was pleased to relax a little of her severity toward Harry Sterling she admitted that he had been very useful in arranging the sets , and very pleasant to everyone . 
Of course , he's conceited , she said , but all boys are . 
You talk as if you were a hundred , Maudie , laughed Mrs. Mortimer . 
He's older than you are . 
Oh , but boys are much younger than girls , Mrs. Mortimer . 
Harry Sterling's quite a boy still . 
A knock sounded at the door . 
A minute later the boy walked in . 
The sight of Maudie Sinclair produced a momentary start , but he recovered himself and delivered a note from his mother , the excuse for his visit . 
It was an invitation for a few days ahead there could certainly have been no hurry for it to arrive that night . 
While Mrs. Mortimer read it , Harry sat down and looked at her . 
She was obliged to treat his arrival as unimportant , and invited him to have a glass of wine . 
Why are you in evening dress ? asked Maudie wonderingly . 
For dinner , answered Harry . 
Do you dress when you're alone at home ? Generally . 
Maudie allowed herself to laugh . 
Mrs. Mortimer saw the joke , too , but its amusement was bitter to her . 
I like it , she said gently . 
Most of the men I know do it . 
Your husband doesn't , observed Miss Sinclair . 
Poor George gets down from town so tired . 
, but he seemed not to understand that he was to go . 
Before he apprehended , she had to give him a significant glance she gave it in dread of Maudie's eyes . 
She knew how sharp schoolgirls' eyes are in such things . 
Whether Maudie saw it or not , Harry did he sprang to his feet and said good night . 
Maudie was not long after him . 
The conversation languished , and there was nothing to keep her . 
With an honest yawn she took her leave . 
Mrs. Mortimer accompanied her down the garden to the gate . 
As she went , she became to her startled horror aware of a third person in the garden . 
She got rid of Maudie as soon as she could , and turned back to the house . 
Harry , emerging from behind a tree , stood before her . 
I know what you're going to say , he said doggedly , but I couldn't help it . 
I was dying to see you again . 
She spread out her hands as though to push him away . 
She was like a frightened girl . 
Oh , you're mad ! she whispered . 
Suppose my husband I can't help it . 
Harry , Harry , don't be cruel ! You'll ruin me , Harry . 
If you love me , go if you love me . 
Even now he hardly fathomed her distress , but she had made him understand that this spot and this time were too dangerous . 
Tell me where I can see you safely , he asked , almost demanded . 
You can see me safely nowhere . 
Nowhere ? You mean that you won't Harry , come here a minute there no closer . 
I just want to be able to touch your hair . 
Go away , dear yes , I said dear . 
You you won't be any happier afterward for having if if you don't go away . 
Her fingers lightly touched his hair , and then her arm dropped at her side . 
He saw a tear run down her cheek . 
Suddenly his own face turned crimson . 
I'm I'm very sorry , he muttered . 
I didn't mean Good night . 
She held out her hand . 
Again he bent and kissed it , and , as he did so , he felt the light touch of her lips among his hair . 
I'm such a foolish , foolish woman , she whispered , but you're a gentleman , Harry , and she drew her hand away and left him . 
Two days later she took her children off to the seaside . 
And the Mortimers never came back to Natterley . 
She wrote and told Mrs. Sterling that George wanted to be nearer his work in town , and that they had gone to live at Wimbledon . 
How we shall miss her ! exclaimed good Mrs. Sterling . 
Poor Harry ! what'll he say ? III . 
The place was full of people , and the scene gay . 
Mrs. Mortimer sat down on a seat and Johnnie stood idly by her . 
Presently a young man and a girl came along . 
While they were still a long way off , Mrs. Mortimer , who was looking in that direction , suddenly leaned forward , started a little , and looked hard at them . 
Johnnie , noticing nothing , whistled unconcernedly . 
Mrs. Mortimer sat with a faint smile on her face . 
The discursive mood of the eyes somehow pleased Mrs. Mortimer . 
Just as the young man came opposite her , he glanced in her direction . 
Mrs. Mortimer wore the curious , half indifferent , half expectant air of one ready for recognition , but not claiming it as a right . 
At the first glance , a puzzled look came into the young man's eyes . 
He looked again then there was a blank in his eyes . 
Mrs. Mortimer made no sign , but sat still , half expectant . 
He was past her now , but he flung a last glance over his shoulder . 
He was evidently very doubtful whether the lady on the seat , in the heavy mourning robes , were someone he knew or not . 
First he thought she was , and then he thought she wasn't . 
Meanwhile Mrs. Mortimer looked at the sea , till Johnnie told her that it was dinner time . 
We were sitting around the fire at Colonel Holborow's . 
Jack Dexter , however , had not spoken , and it was only in response to a direct appeal that he related the following story . 
There was a sympathetic silence . 
chose to object to me as a suitor for the hand of her daughter , Mary Fitzmoine . 
, I at once threw up my visits and started in pursuit . 
, and that if I won her heart I could break down the old lady's opposition . 
I was not to blame it was just a bit of bad luck . 
I ranged over most of Switzerland in search of Lady Mary . 
Wherever I went I asked about her , and at last I got upon the track . 
At Interlaken I found her name in the visitors' book , together with that of a Miss Dibbs , whom I took to be the dragon . 
Here they evidently meant to stay , for letters were to be sent after them there for the next week . 
The place was described to me as pretty and retired it seemed , therefore , an ideal spot for my purpose . 
I made up my mind at once . 
I started the next day after luncheon , took the journey easily , and came in sight of the little inn about seven o'clock in the evening . 
The only question was as to the disposition of Miss Dibbs toward me . 
I prayed that she might turn out to be a romantic dragon but , in case she should prove obstinate , I made my approaches with all possible caution . 
When my carriage stopped at the door I jumped out . 
The head waiter , a big fellow in a white waistcoat , was on the steps . 
I drew him aside , and took a ten franc piece from my pocket . 
Is there a young lady staying here ? I asked . 
Tall , fair , handsome ? and I slid the piece of gold into his palm . 
Well , yes , sir , he said , there is a young lady , and she is all that you say , sir . 
Pardon me , Monsieur is English ? Yes , said I. Ah , said he , smiling mysteriously . 
It is certainly Wednesday , I admitted , though I did not see that the day of the week mattered much . 
He came close to me and whispered The lady thought you might come , sir . 
I think she expects you , sir . 
Oh , you can rely on my discretion , sir . 
My predominant feeling was one of gratification . 
Mary loved me ! Mary expected me ! There was complete mental sympathy between Mary and myself ! I went up to my room in a state of great contentment . 
I had been there about half an hour when my friend the waiter came in . 
Advancing toward me with a mysterious air , he took a blank envelope out of his pocket and held it up before me with a roguish smile . 
Monsieur will know the handwriting inside , he said cunningly . 
Now I had never corresponded with Lady Mary , and of course did not know her handwriting , but I saw no use in telling the waiter that . 
In truth , I thought the fellow quite familiar enough . 
So I said shortly and with some hauteur Give me the note and I took another piece of gold out of my pocket . 
We exchanged our possessions , the waiter withdrew with a wink , and I tore open the precious note . 
Whatever you do , it ran , don't recognize me . 
As soon as I can I will tell you where to meet me . 
I knew you would come . 
M. The darling ! I exclaimed . 
She's a girl of spirit . 
I'll take good care not to betray her . 
Oh , we'll circumvent old Dibbs between us . 
At eight o'clock I went down to the salle a manger . 
Mary and Miss Dibbs no doubt dined in their own sitting room , and there appeared to be no one else in the hotel . 
The head waiter hurried up to her his face was covered with smiles , and he gave me a confidential nod en passant . 
Whenever he did so the waiter smiled blandly at him . 
He did it the last time just as the lady was walking down the room . 
Seeing her coming he drew back and held the door open for her with a clumsy , apologetic bow . 
She smiled scornfully and passed through . 
The waiter stood grinning in the middle of the room , and when I , in my turn , rose , he whispered to me , It's all right , sir . 
I went to bed and dreamed of Mary . 
On entering the room next morning the first person I saw was Mary . 
She was looking adorably fresh and pretty . 
She sat opposite a stout , severe looking dame in black . 
Directly my eyes alighted on her I schooled them into a studiously vacant expression . 
She , poor girl , was no diplomatist . 
She started she glanced anxiously at Miss Dibbs I saw her lips move she blushed she seemed almost to smile . 
excited the dragon's curiosity she turned round and favored me with a searching gaze . 
I was equal to the occasion . 
I comprehended them both in a long , cool , deliberate , empty stare . 
The strain on my self control was immense , but I supported it . 
Mary blushed crimson , and her eyes sank to her plate . 
Poor girl ! She had sadly overrated her powers of deception . 
I was not surprised that Miss Dibbs frowned severely and sniffed audibly . 
At that moment the other girl came in . 
I took no notice at all , assuming an air of entire unconsciousness . 
A few minutes later Mary got up and made for the door , with Miss Dibbs in close attendance . 
The imprudent child could not forbear to glance at me but I , seeing the dragon's watchful eye upon me , remained absolutely irresponsive . 
Nay , to throw Miss Dibbs off the scent , I fixed my eyes on my neighbor with assumed preoccupation . 
Flushing painfully , Mary hurried out , and I heard Miss Dibbs sniff again . 
I chuckled over her obvious disapproval of my neighbor and myself . 
The excellent woman evidently thought us no better than we ought to be ! But I felt that I should go mad if I could not speak to Mary soon . 
I went out and sat down in the veranda . 
It was then about half past ten . 
Ten minutes afterward my neighbor of the salle a manger came out . 
She rang a handbell that stood on the table , and a waiter ran up . 
Where's the head waiter ? she asked sharply . 
Pardon , ma'mselle , but he is waiting on some ladies upstairs . 
What a nuisance ! said she . 
I want to give him an order . 
Stay come indoors and I'll write it down . 
She disappeared , and I sat on , wondering how I was to get a sight of Mary . 
At last , in weariness , I went indoors to the smoking room . 
It looked out to the back and was a dreary little room but I lit my cigar and began on a three days' old copy of the Times . 
Thus I spent a tedious hour . 
Then my friend the head waiter appeared , looking more roguish than ever . 
I dived into my pocket , he produced a note , I seized it . 
Directly you get this , come to the wood behind the hotel . 
Take the path to the right and go straight till you find me . 
I have thrown the SPY poor old Dibbs ! off the scent . 
M. I caught up my hat and rushed into the hall . 
I cannoned into a young man who had just got out of a carriage and was standing in the veranda . 
With a hasty apology I dashed on . 
Beyond doubt she loved me ! And she was honest enough not to conceal it . 
I longed to show her how truly I returned her love , and I rejoiced that there need be no tedious preliminaries . 
Mary and I understood one another . 
A kiss would be the seal of our love and the most suitable beginning of our conversation . 
In five minutes I was in the wood . 
I took the path Mary had indicated and ran along it at the top of my speed . 
I determined not to shilly shally . 
She loved me I loved her . 
I ran forward , plumped down on my knees behind her , took her head between my hands dodged round , and kissed her cheek . 
At last , my darling ! I cried in passionate tones . 
By Jupiter , it was the other girl , though ! I sprang back in horror . 
The girl looked at me for a moment . 
Then she blushed then she frowned then why , then she began to laugh consumedly . 
At last , you call it , she gasped . 
I call it at first and she laughed merrily and melodiously . 
She certainly had a nice laugh , that girl . 
Now , concerning what follows , I have , since then , entertained some doubts whether I behaved in all respects discreetly . 
I thought that I owed the lady a full explanation . 
Besides , I wanted a full explanation myself . 
, Mary was not there , and this young lady rather interested me . 
I decided that I would have five minutes' talk with her then I would run back and find Mary . 
I must beg a thousand pardons , I began , but I took you for somebody else . 
Oh , of course , said she , with a shrug , it's always that . 
You appear incredulous , said I , rather offended . 
Well , and if I am ? said she . 
I produced Mary's second note . 
If I can trust to your discretion , I'll prove what I say , I remarked in a nettled tone . 
I shall be very curious to hear the proof , sir , and I will be most discreet , she said . 
She was pouting , but her eyes danced . 
Really , she looked very pretty although , of course , I would not for a moment compare her with Lady Mary . 
A lady , said I , was so kind as to tell me to seek her here this morning . 
Oh , as if I believed that ! I was piqued . 
There's the proof , I cried , flinging the note into her lap . 
She took it up , glanced at it , and gave a little shriek . 
Where did you get this ? Why , from the head waiter . 
Oh , the fool ! she cried . 
Yours ? nonsense ! He gave me that and another last night . 
Oh , the stupidity ! They were for they were not for you . 
They were for someone who is to arrive . 
Madame , said I , I'm ruined ! No harm is done to you I'm a man of honor but I'm ruined . 
You pretended not to know her ! Oh , dear ! oh , dear ! and her laughter echoed among the trees again . 
I saw her looking at you , and you ate on like a pig ! Oh , dear ! oh , dear ! Stop laughing ! said I savagely . 
Oh , I'm very sorry , but I can't . 
with a delicate bit of a handkerchief . 
You shan't laugh , said I. Who were your notes for ? Somebody I expected . 
The waiter took you for him , I suppose . 
I never thought of his being so stupid . 
Oh , what a brute she must have thought you ! And she began to laugh again . 
I had had enough of it . 
I hate being laughed at . 
If you go on laughing , said I , I'll kiss you again . 
The threat was a failure she did not appear at all alarmed . 
Not you ! she said , laughing worse than ever . 
I should like you fellows to understand that my heart never wavered in its allegiance to Lady Mary my conscience is quite clear as to that but I had pledged my word . 
I caught that tiresome girl round the waist and I kissed her once I'm sure of once , anyhow . 
She gasped and struggled , laughing still . 
Then , with a sudden change of voice , she cried , Stop' , stop ! I let her go . 
We had a gallery of spectators . 
On one side stood the ugly headed valet on the other , in attitudes of horror , Mary and Miss Dibbs ! You've ruined us both now , said the girl in blue . 
I rose to my feet and was about to explain , when the ugly fellow rushed at me , brandishing a cane . 
I had quite enough to arrange without being bothered by him . 
I caught the cane in my left hand , and with my right I knocked him down . 
Then I walked up to Lady Mary . 
I took no heed of Miss Dibbs' presence it was too critical a moment to think of trifles . 
Lady Mary , said I , appearances are so much against me that you cannot possibly attach the slightest weight to them . 
Sir , said she , I have no longer the honor of your acquaintance . 
I have only to thank you for having had the consideration not to recognize me when we met so unexpectedly in the dining room . 
Pray continue to show me the same favor . 
With which pleasant little speech she turned on her heel . 
It was clear that she suspected me most unjustly . 
I turned to the girl in blue , but she was beforehand with me . 
Ah , I wish I'd never see you , she cried , you great , stupid creature ! He she pointed to the prostrate figure of the ugly servant will tell Frederic everything . 
Come , said I , I was only an accident it would have been just as bad if As I spoke I heard a step behind me . 
Turning round , I found myself face to face with the young man with whom I had come in collision as I rushed through the hall . 
He gazed at the servant at me at the girl in blue . 
Margaret ! he exclaimed , what is the Hush , hush ! she whispered , pointing again to the servant . 
I stepped up to him , lifting my hat Sir , said I , kindly inform me if you are the gentleman who was to come from England . 
Certainly I come from England , he said . 
And you ought to have arrived on Wednesday ? Yes , he answered . 
Then , said I , all I have to say to you , sir , is that I wish to the devil you'd keep your appointments . 
That's why I'm not married , boys . 
Where's my glass ? It is a very curious story , observed the colonel . 
We all pricked up our ears . 
But , he continued , I am not at liberty to say . 
We sank back in our chairs . 
Do you know ? asked the colonel , and Jack nodded solemnly . 
Out with it ! we cried . 
But I may tell you that the matter engaged the attention of more than one of the Foreign Offices of Europe . 
Good Heavens ! cried we in chorus , and Jack drank off his whisky and water , rose to his feet , and put on his hat . 
Poor dear Mary ! said he , as he opened the door . 
She never got over it . 
The colonel shouted after him Then what did she marry Jenkyns of the Blues for ? Pique ! said Jack , and he shut the door . 
It was common knowledge that Smugg was engaged to be married . 
The features and the explanation between them rescued Smugg from the incongruity of a romance , but we united in the opinion that the lady was ill advised in preferring Smugg to solitude . 
or o'clock , and only about did we clear our corners , light our pipes , open our books , and discuss the prospects of the day . 
was a mystery the whole performance was simply a tribute to Smugg's conscience , and , as such , was received with good natured , scornful toleration . 
One morning there was no Smugg ! Yet he had breakfasted Mary and an eggshell testified to that effect . 
We said nothing , and he began to bleat Horace . 
In a minute of silence I happened to hear what it was it referred to a lady of the name of Pyrrha the learned may identify the passage for themselves . 
The next day the same thing happened except that it was close on twelve before Smugg appeared . 
Gayford and Tritton took no notice of the aberration Bird congratulated Smugg on the increased docility of his conscience . 
I watched him closely as he wiped his brow he was very warm , indeed . 
A third time the scene was enacted my curiosity was aroused I made Mary call me very early , and from the window I espied Smugg leaving the house at . 
, and going with rapid , furtive steps along the little path that led to old Dill's tiny farm . 
I slipped downstairs , bolted a cup of tea , seized a piece of toast , and followed Smugg . 
He was out of sight , but presently I met Joe Shanks , the butcher's son , who brought us our chops . 
Joe was a stout young man , about twenty one , red faced , burly , and greasy . 
Seen Mr. Smugg as you came along , Joe ? I asked . 
Gone toward Dill's farm , sir . 
Ah , Dill's farm ! Yes , sir . 
The chop laden Joe passed on . 
I mended my pace , and soon found myself on the outskirts of Dill's premises . 
I had been there before we had all been there before . 
I saw her now in a sunbonnet and laced boots . 
I may say at once that Betsy Dill was very pretty , in a fine , robust style , and all four of us were decidedly enamored of her charms . 
Usually we courted her in a body , and scrupulous fairness was observed in the matter of seeking private interviews . 
Smugg had never spoken to her so we should all have sworn . 
Smugg stood still for a minute , then put on his hat , looked at his watch , and walked slowly away . 
I did not keep Smugg's secret I felt under no obligation to keep it . 
He deserved no mercy , and I exposed him at breakfast that very morning . 
But I could not help being a little sorry for him when he came in . 
Still , in spite of our jocularity , we all felt an under current of real anger . 
We considered that Smugg was treating Pyrrha very badly Smugg , an engaged man , aged thirty , presumably past the heat and carelessness of youth . 
The great surprise was still to come . 
We hailed the diversion , and had Joe shown in . 
Gayford pushed the beer jug and a glass toward him , saying Help yourself , Joe . 
Joe drank a draught , wiped his mouth on his blue sleeve , and remarked No offense , gentlemen . 
None , said Gayford , who seemed to have assumed the chairmanship of the meeting . 
Joe , seeming slightly embarrassed , cleared his throat , and looked round again . 
No offense , gentlemen , he repeated but she's bin walking with me two years come Michaelmas . 
Then the chairman expressed the views of the meeting . 
The deuce she has ! said he . 
Off AND on , added Joe candidly . 
He had shrunk down low in his seat , and rested his head on his hand . 
His face was half hidden but he was very warm , and the drops trickled from his forehead down his nose . 
It seems to be a good deal off , said the chairman judicially . 
No offense , said Joe but I don't take it kind of you , gentlemen . 
The chops are excellent , conceded the chairman . 
And I don't take it kind . 
Develop your complaint , said the chairman . 
I mean , what's the row , Joe ? Since you gentlemen came she's been saucy , said Joe . 
I do not see , observed the chairman , that anything can be done . 
It aint as if you meant it , said he doggedly you just unsettles of 'er . 
I s'pose I can't help ye talking , and laughing , and walking along of 'er , but you aint no call to kiss 'er . 
The chairman held a consultation with Tritton , who sat on his right hand . 
The meeting , said Gayford , will proceed to declare , one by one , whether it has ever and if so , how often kissed the lady . 
Never ! Mr. Tritton ? Never ! said Tritton . 
Mr. Bird ? Never ! said Bird . 
Mr. Robertson ? Never ! said I. Mr. Smugg ? I seed 'im this very morning ! cried Joe , like an accusing angel . 
Smugg took his hand away from his face , after giving his wet brow one last dab . 
He looked at Gayford and at Joe , but said nothing . 
Mr. Smugg ? repeated the chairman . 
Mr. Smugg , interposed Tritton suavely , probably feels himself in a difficulty . 
The secret is not , perhaps , entirely his own . 
We enter a plea of not guilty for Mr. Smugg , observed the chairman gravely . 
I seed 'im do it , said Joe . 
Joe finished his beer , pulled his forelock , and turned on his heel . 
Suddenly Smugg burst into speech . 
He could hardly form his words , and they jostled one another in the breathless confusion of his utterance . 
I I you've no right . 
If I choose , I shall no one has a right to stop me . 
If I love her if she doesn't mind I say nothing nothing at all . 
I won't hear a word . 
I shall do as I like . 
Joe had paused to hear him , and now stood looking at him in wonder . 
Joe drew back , touched his forelock again , and said Then it's fair fighting , sir , begging your pardon and no offense . 
But the girl was mine first , sir . 
Mr. Smugg , said he , you tell Joe , here , that you'd marry this lady . 
May I ask how you can when But for once Smugg was able to silence one of his pupils . 
He arose from his seat , and brought his hand heavily down on Gayford's shoulder . 
Hold your tongue ! he cried . 
I must answer to God , but I needn't answer to you . 
Joe looked at him with round eyes , and , with a last salute , slowly went out . 
None of us spoke , and presently Smugg opened his Thucydides . 
For my part , I took very considerable interest in Pyrrha's side of the question . 
I amused myself by constructing a fancy born love of Pyrrha's for her social superior , and if he had been one of ourselves , I should have seen no absurdity . 
But Smugg refused altogether to fit into my frame . 
In my opinion , Pyrrha was merely amusing herself with Smugg , and I was rather comforted by this reversal of the ordinary roles . 
Still , I could not rest in conjecture , and my curiosity led me up to Dill's little farm on the afternoon of the day of Joe's sudden appearance . 
The others let me go alone . 
Directly after dinner Smugg went to his bedroom , and the other three had gone off to play lawn tennis at the vicar's . 
I lit my pipe , and strolled along till I reached the gate that led to Dill's meadow . 
Here I waited till Pyrrha should appear . 
As I sat and smoked , a voice struck suddenly on my ear the voice of Mrs. Dill , raised to shrillness by anger . 
Be off with you , she said , and mind your ways , or worse 'll happen to you . 
After a moment Pyrrha turned the corner , and came toward me . 
She was wiping her eyes with the corner of her apron , and carried in her hand a light hazel switch , which she used to guide errant cows . 
She was almost at the gate before she saw me . 
She started , and blushed very red . 
Lor ! is it you , Mr. Robertson ? she said . 
I nodded , but did not move . 
Let me pass , sir , please . 
I've no time to stop . 
What , not to talk to me , Pyrrha Betsy , I mean ? Mother don't like me talking to gentlemen . 
You've been crying , said I. No , I haven't , said Pyrrha , quite violently . 
Mother been scolding you ? I wish you'd let me by , sir . 
What for ? It's all your fault , burst out Pyrrha . 
I didn't want you no , nor him , either . 
What do you come and get me into trouble for ? I haven't done anything , Betsy . 
Come now ! You aint as bad as some , she conceded , a dim smile breaking through the clouds . 
You mean Smugg , I observed . 
Who told you ? she cried . 
Joe , said I. Seems he's got a lot to say to everybody , she commented resentfully . 
Ah ! he told your mother , did he ? Well , you know you shouldn't , Betsy . 
I won't never speak to him again I meant I won't ever the grammarian is abroad , Mr. Robertson . 
What ! Not to Joe ? Joe ! No that Smugg . 
But Joe told of you . 
Well , and it was his right . 
If she thought so , I had no more to say . 
Notions differ among different sets . 
But I pressed the point a little . 
Joe got you your scolding . 
So I left that aspect to the subject , and continued I suppose it was for letting Mr. Smugg kiss you ? I couldn't help it . 
I had great doubts of that she could have tackled Smugg with one hand but I said pleasantly No more could he , I'm sure . 
Pyrrha cast an alarmed glance at the house . 
Oh , I'll be careful , I laughed . 
Yes , and I'll let you go . 
But just tell me , Betsy , what do you think of Mr. Smugg ? I don't think that of him ! said she , snapping her pretty red fingers . 
Joe 'ud make ten of him . 
I wish Joe'd talk to him a bit . 
Then we sat and looked at the table . 
It robs us of a resource , pronounced Gayford , once again making himself the mouthpiece of the party . 
We all nodded , and filled fresh pipes . 
We had seen little of him the last week save when he was construing he had taken refuge in his own room . 
When he came in now , Gayford wagged his head significantly at me apparently , it was my task to bell the cat . 
I rose , and went to the mantelpiece . 
Smugg had sat down at the table , and my back was to him . 
I don't know how he looked . 
I kept my face from him , but , after a long minute's pause , he answered Thank you , Robertson . 
It's Aeschylus this morning , isn't it ? We had a noisy evening that night . 
I suppose we felt below par , and wanted cheering up . 
Anyhow , we made an expedition to the grocer's , and amazed him with a demand for his best champagne and his choicest sherry . 
We carried the goods home in a bag , and sat down to a revel . 
Smugg had some bread and cheese in his own room he said that he had letters to write . 
As the church clock struck two , I awoke . 
I heard a sound of movement in Smugg's room next door . 
Presently his door opened , and he creaked gently downstairs . 
I sprang out of bed and looked out of the window . 
Smugg , fully dressed , was gliding along the path toward Dill's farm . 
Some impulse curiosity only , very likely made me jump into my trousers , seize a flannel jacket , draw on a pair of boots , and hastily follow him . 
When I got outside he was visible in the moonlight , mounting the path ahead of me . 
He held on his way toward the farm , I following . 
When he reached the yard he stopped for a moment , and seemed to peer up at the windows , which were all dark and unresponsive . 
I stood as quiet as I could , twenty yards from him , and moved cautiously on again when he turned to the right and passed through the gate into the meadows . 
I saw no signs of Pyrrha . 
Smugg held on his way across the meadows , down toward the stream and suddenly the thought leaped to my brain that the poor fool meant to drown himself . 
But I could hardly believe it . 
Surely he must merely be taking a desperate lover's ramble , a last sad visit to the scenes of his silly , irrational infatuation . 
If I went up to him , I should look a fool , too so I hung behind , ready to turn upon him if need appeared . 
He walked down to the very edge of the stream it ran deep and fast just here , under a high bank and a row of old willows . 
Smugg sat down on the bank , wet though the grass was , and clasped his hands over his knees . 
I crouched down a little way behind him , ready and alert . 
I am a good swimmer , and I did not doubt my power to pull him out , even if I were not in time to prevent him jumping in . 
I saw him rise , look over the brink , and sit down again . 
I almost thought I saw him shiver . 
And presently , through the stillness of the summer night , came the strangest , saddest sound catching my ear as it drifted across the meadow . 
Smugg was sobbing , and his sobs never loud rose and fell with the subdued stress of intolerable pain . 
Suddenly he leaped up , cried aloud , and flung his hands above his head . 
I hope never to see a man if you can call Smugg a man like that again . 
He sat where he was , and I where I was , till the moon paled and a distant hint of day discovered us . 
Then he rose , brushed himself with his hands , and slunk quickly from the bank . 
Had he looked anywhere but on the ground , he must have seen me as it was , I only narrowly avoided him , and fell again into my place behind him . 
All the way back to our garden I followed him . 
As he passed through the gate , I quickened my pace , overtook him , and laid my hand on his arm . 
The man's face gave me what I remember my old nurse used to call quite a turn . 
You're an average idiot , aren't you ? said I. Oh , yes I've been squatting in the wet by that infernal river , too . 
You ought to get three months , by rights . 
He looked at me in a dazed sort of way . 
I daren't , he said . 
I wanted to , but I daren't . 
There is really nothing more . 
, and carrying a dozen of the grocer's best port , went up to dance at Dill's farm . 
Joe was polished till I could almost see myself in his cheek , and Pyrrha looked more charming than ever . 
She and Joe were to leave us early , to go to Joe's own house in the village , but I managed to get one dance with her . 
Indeed , I believe she wanted a word with me . 
Well , all's well that ends well , isn't it ? I began . 
No more scoldings ! Not from Mrs. Dill , anyhow . 
You can't let that alone , sir , said Pyrrha . 
Oh , I'll never refer to it again , said I. This is a fine wedding of yours , Betsy . 
It's good of you and the other gentlemen to come , sir . 
We had to see the last of you , and I sighed very ostentatiously . 
She did not believe in it , and she knew that I knew she did not , but the little compliment pleased her , all the same . 
Smugg , I pursued , is ill in bed . 
But perhaps he wouldn't have come , anyhow . 
If you please , sir Pyrrha began but she stopped . 
Yes , Betsy ? What is it ? Would you take a message for me , sir ? If it's a proper one , Betsy , for a married lady to send . 
She laughed a little , and said Oh , it's no harm , sir . 
I'm afraid he aint he's rather down , sir . 
Who ? Why , that Smugg , sir . 
Oh , that Smugg ! Why , yes a little down , Betsy , I fear . 
You might tell him as I bear no malice , sir as I'm not angry with him , I mean . 
Certainly , said I. It will probably do him good . 
He got me into trouble but there , I can make allowances and it's all right now , sir . 
In fact you forgive him ? I think you might tell him so , sir , said Betsy . 
But , said I , are you aware that he was another's all the time ? What , sir ? Oh , yes ! engaged to be married . 
Well , I never ! Him ! What , all the while he Precisely . 
Well , that beats everything . 
Oh , if I'd known that ! I'll give him your message . 
No , sir , not now , I thank you . 
The villain ! You are right , said I. I think your mother ought to have scolded him , too . 
Now you promised , sir but Joe came up , and I escaped . 
It was , I believe , mainly as a compliment to me that Miss Audrey Liston was asked to Poltons . 
She was in the habit of describing herself as an authoress in a small way . 
She was very diligent she worked from ten to one every day while she was at Poltons how much she wrote is between her and her conscience . 
There was another impeachment which Miss Liston was hardly at the trouble to deny . 
Take my characters from life ? she would exclaim . 
Thus I had passed through the fire . 
I reckoned they would last her , at the present rate of production , about five years . 
Fate was kind to Miss Liston , and provided her with most suitable patterns for her next piece of work at Poltons itself . 
There were a young man and a young woman staying in the house Sir Gilbert Chillington and Miss Pamela Myles . 
The moment Miss Liston was apprized of a possible romance , she began the study of the protagonists . 
, and she had found them in Chillington and Pamela . 
The former appeared to my dull eye to offer no salient novelty he was tall , broad , handsome , and he possessed a manner of enviable placidity . 
Pamela , I allowed , was exactly the heroine Miss Liston loved haughty , capricious , difficile , but sound and true at heart . 
She proposed that I also should make a study of him , and attributed my hurried refusal to a shrinking from the difficulties of the task . 
Of course , she observed , looking at our young friends , who were talking nonsense at the other side of the lawn , they must have a misunderstanding . 
Why , of course , said I , lighting my pipe . 
What should you say to another man ? Or another woman ? said Miss Liston . 
Do you think she'd better be a married woman ? And Miss Liston looked at me inquiringly . 
The age prefers them married , I remarked . 
This conversation happened on the second day of Miss Liston's visit , and she lost no time in beginning to study her subjects . 
Pamela , she said , she found pretty plain sailing , but Chillington continued to puzzle her . 
Again , she could not make up her mind whether to have a happy or a tragic ending . 
In the interests of a tenderhearted public , I pleaded for marriage bells . 
He received the suggestion without surprise , and without any attempt at disclaiming fitness for the purpose but he received it as a matter which entailed a responsibility on him . 
What does she know about me ? he asked , in meditative tones . 
She's very quick she'll soon pick up as much as she wants , I assured him . 
She'll probably go all wrong , he said somberly and of course I could not tell him that it was of no consequence if she did . 
No one had told Pamela that she was going to be put in a book , and I don't think it would have made any difference had she been told . 
Pamela's attitude toward books was one of healthy scorn , confidently based on admitted ignorance . 
Pamela appeared to be as little aggrieved as I was . 
A week passed , and then , one Friday morning , a new light burst on me . 
Miss Liston came into the garden at eleven o'clock and sat down by me on the lawn . 
Chillington and Pamela had gone riding with the squire , Dora was visiting the poor . 
, no less than her puzzled look , told me that an obstruction had occurred in the novel . 
Presently she let me know what it was . 
I'm thinking of altering the scheme of my story , Mr. Wynne , said she . 
Have you ever noticed how sometimes a man thinks he's in love when he isn't really ? Such a case sometimes occurs , I acknowledged . 
Yes , and he doesn't find out his mistake Till they're married ? Sometimes , yes , she said , rather as though she were making an unwilling admission . 
But sometimes he sees it before when he meets somebody else . 
Very true , said I , with a grave nod . 
The false can't stand against the real , pursued Miss Liston and then she fell into meditative silence . 
I stole a glance at her face she was smiling . 
Was it in the pleasure of literary creation an artistic ecstasy ? I should have liked to answer yes , but I doubted it very much . 
People needn't be much interested in her . 
Yes , you could manage it that way , said I , thinking how Pamela I took the liberty of using her name for the shallow girl would like such treatment . 
She will really be valuable mainly as a foil , observed Miss Liston and she added generously , I shall make her nice , you know , but shallow not worthy of him . 
And what are you going to make the other girl like ? I asked . 
Miss Liston started slightly also she colored very slightly , and she answered , looking away from me across the lawn I haven't quite made up my mind yet , Mr. Wynne . 
Perhaps Chillington's giving her the materials for one , I suggested . 
I shouldn't think , observed Pamela in her dispassionate way , that anything very interesting had ever happened to him . 
I thought you liked him , I remarked humbly . 
What's that got to do with it ? asked Pamela . 
It was beyond question that Chillington enjoyed Miss Liston's society the interest she showed in him was incense to his nostrils . 
I used to overhear fragments of his ideas about himself which he was revealing in answer to her tactful inquiries . 
For she had definitely decided all her plot she told me so a few days later . 
The heroine generally got out all right , and the knowledge that she would enabled the reader to preserve cheerfulness . 
But would poor little Miss Liston get out ? I was none too sure of it . 
Suddenly a change came in the state of affairs . 
It must have struck her that the increasing intimacy of Miss Liston and Chillington might become something other than funny . 
To put it briefly and metaphorically , she whistled her dog back to her heels . 
I am not skilled in understanding or describing the artifices of ladies but even I saw the transformation in Pamela . 
She put forth her strength and put on her prettiest gowns she refused to take her place in the sea saw of society which Chillington had recently established for his pleasure . 
If he spent an hour with Miss Liston , Pamela would have nothing of him for a day she met his attentions with scorn unless they were undivided . 
As he walked off with Pamela , Miss Liston's eyes followed him in wistful longing she stole away upstairs and did not come down till five o'clock . 
Then , finding me strolling about with a cigarette , she joined me . 
Well , how goes the book ? I asked . 
I haven't done much to it just lately , she answered , in a low voice . 
I it's I don't quite know what to do with it . 
I thought you'd settled ? So I had , but oh , don't let's talk about it , Mr. Wynne ! But a moment later she went on talking about it . 
I don't know why I should make it end happily , she said . 
I'm sure life isn't always happy , is it ? Certainly not , I answered . 
You mean your man might stick to the shallow girl after all ? Yes , I just heard her whisper . 
And be miserable afterward ? I pursued . 
I don't know , said Miss Liston . 
Then you must make him shallow himself . 
I can't do that , she said quickly . 
I left her walking up and down in front of the drawing room windows , a rather forlorn little figure , thrown into distinctness by the cold rays of the setting sun . 
All was not over yet . 
That evening Chillington broke away . 
Pamela sat by me she was very silent she did not appear to be angry , but her handsome mouth wore a resolute expression . 
Chillington and Miss Liston wandered on into the shrubbery , and did not come into sight again for nearly half an hour . 
I think it's cold , said Pamela , in her cool , quiet tones . 
And it's also , Mr. Wynne , rather slow . 
I shall go to bed . 
I made bold to smile . 
Pamela's face broke slowly into an answering smile . 
I don't know what you mean , Mr. Wynne , said she . 
No ? said I. No , said Pamela , and she turned away . 
But before she went she looked over her shoulder , and still smiling , said , Wish Miss Liston good night for me , Mr. Wynne . 
Anything I have to say to Sir Gilbert will wait very well till to morrow . 
She had hardly gone in when the wanderers came out of the shrubbery and rejoined me . 
Chillington wore his usual passive look , but Miss Liston's face was happy and radiant . 
Chillington passed on into the drawing room . 
Miss Liston lingered a moment by me . 
Why , you look , said I , as if you'd invented the finest scene ever written . 
She did not answer me directly , but stood looking up at the stars . 
Then she said , in a dreamy tone I think I shall stick to my old idea in the book . 
As she spoke , Chillington came out . 
Even in the dim light I saw a frown on his face . 
I say , Wynne , said he , where's Miss Myles ? She's gone to bed , I answered . 
She told me to wish you good night for her , Miss Liston . 
No message for you , Chillington . 
Miss Liston's eyes were on him . 
He took no notice of her he stood frowning for an instant , then , with some muttered ejaculation , he strode back into the house . 
We heard his heavy tread across the drawing room we heard the door slammed behind him , and I found myself looking on Miss Liston's altered face . 
What does he want her for , I wonder ! she said , in an agitation that made my presence , my thoughts , my suspicions , nothing to her . 
He said nothing to me about wanting to speak to her to night . 
And she walked slowly into the house , her eyes on the ground , and all the light gone from her face , and the joy dead in it . 
The next morning Sir Gilbert Chillington ate dirt there is no other way of expressing it in great quantities and with infinite humility . 
My admirable friend Miss Pamela was severe . 
I saw him walk six yards behind her for the length of the terrace not a look nor a turn of her head gave him leave to join her . 
Miss Liston had gone upstairs , and I watched the scene from the window of the smoking room . 
The most interesting things in life are those which , perhaps by the inevitable nature of the case , one does not hear and I did not hear the scene which followed . 
For a while they stood talking rather , he talked and she listened . 
Then she turned again and walked slowly into the shrubbery . 
It was the end of a chapter , and I laid down the book . 
On the day after the engagement was accomplished Miss Liston left us to return to London . 
She came out in her hat and jacket and sat down by me the carriage was to be round in ten minutes . 
She put on her gloves slowly and buttoned them carefully . 
This done , she said By the way , Mr. Wynne , I've adopted your suggestion . 
The man doesn't find out . 
Then you've made him a fool ? I asked bluntly . 
I I think it might happen though he wasn't a fool . 
She sat with her hands in her lap for a moment or two , then she went on , in a lower voice I'm going to make him find out afterward . 
I felt her glance on me , but I looked straight in front of me . 
What , after he's married the shallow girl ? Yes , said Miss Liston . 
Rather too late , isn't it ? At least , if you mean there is to be a happy ending . 
Miss Liston enlaced her fingers . 
I haven't decided about the ending yet , said she . 
There was another pause , and rather a long one the wheels of the carriage were audible on the gravel of the front drive . 
I rose and held out my hand . 
Of course , said Miss Liston , still intent on her novel , I could She stopped again , and looked apprehensively at me . 
My face , I believe , expressed nothing more than polite attention and friendly interest . 
Of course , she began again , the shallow girl his wife might might die , Mr. Wynne . 
In novels , said I with a smile , while there's death , there's hope . 
Yes , in novels , she answered , giving me her hand . 
The poor little woman was very unhappy . 
Unwisely , I dare say , I pressed her hand . 
V. 'TWIXT WILL AND WILL NOT . 
I must confess at once that at first , at least , I very much admired the curate . 
, and Eleanor , his wife . 
It was purely the manner of the curate's advances that took my fancy in the mere fact of them there was nothing remarkable . 
But then came the fatal obstacle . 
before she went to Homburg in the autumn . 
With the curate it was otherwise . 
He Jack Ives , by the way , was his name appeared to rush , not only upon his fate , but in the face of all possibility and of Lady Queenborough . 
My cousin and hostess , Dora Polton , was very much distressed about him . 
She said that he was such a nice young fellow , and that it was a great pity to see him preparing such unhappiness for himself . 
This demonstration in no way perturbed the curate . 
Dora , very weakly , rose to the bait . 
and walked on the terrace after dinner with her in the moonlight . 
My good cousin , the squire , suggested rather grimly that a discourse on the vanity of human wishes might be appropriate . 
I shall preach , said Mr. Ives thoughtfully , on the opportunities of wealth . 
This resolution he carried out on the next day but one , that being a Sunday . 
I had the pleasure of sitting next to Miss Trix , and I watched her with some interest as Mr. Ives developed his theme . 
You , said the curate , waxing rhetorical as he addressed an imaginary , but bloated , capitalist , have no more right to your money than I have . 
It is intrusted to you to be shared with me . 
At this point I heard Lady Queenborough sniff and Algy Stanton snigger . 
I stole a glance at Trix and detected a slight waver in the admirable lines of her mouth . 
A very good sermon , didn't you think ? I said to her , as we walked home . 
Oh , very ! she replied demurely . 
Ah , if we followed all we heard in church ! I sighed . 
Miss Trix walked in silence for a few yards . 
He's rather amusing , though . 
Of course , if you're prepared to make the sacrifice involved Oh , what nonsense ! Then you've no business to amuse yourself with him . 
Dear , dear ! how moral you are ! said Trix . 
when she told us about it , and announced that Lord Newhaven would arrive in the middle of the next day . 
You won't be soon , young man , Lady Queenborough's angry eye seemed to say . 
I remember him , pursued Jack awfully smitten with a tobacconist's daughter in the Corn oh , it's all RIGHT , Lady Queenborough she wouldn't look at him . 
This quasi apology was called forth by the fact of Lady Queenborough pushing back her chair and making for the door . 
It did not at all appease her to hear of the scorn of the tobacconist's daughter . 
She glanced sternly at Jack and disappeared . 
He turned to Trix and reminded her without diffidence and coram populo , as his habit was that she had promised him a stroll in the west wood . 
You were out nearly two hours , said I. Were we ? asked Trix , with a start . 
Good gracious ! Where was mamma , Mr. Wynne ? On the lawn watch in hand . 
Fortunately , the curate was not there he had a Bible class . 
The next day Lord Newhaven arrived . 
I found him on the lawn when I strolled up , after a spell of letter writing , about four o'clock . 
Lawn tennis was the order of the day , and we were all in flannels . 
Oh , here's Mark ! cried Dora , seeing me . 
Now , Mark , you and Mr. Ives had better play against Trix and Lord Newhaven . 
That'll make a very good set . 
No , no , Mrs. Polton , said Jack Ives . 
They wouldn't have a chance . 
Look here , I'll play with Miss Queenborough against Lord Newhaven and Wynne . 
He whisked Trix off and began to serve all in a moment . 
I had a vision of Lady Queenborough approaching from the house with face aghast . 
Jack wiped his brow , strolled up to the tea table with Trix , and remarked in exultant tones We make a perfect couple , Miss Queenborough we ought never to be separated . 
This was too much for Trix she had treated him very kindly and had allowed him to amuse her but it was impossible to put up with presumption of that kind . 
Difficult as it was to discourage Mr. Ives , she did it , and he went away with a disconsolate , puzzled expression . 
At the last moment , however , Trix so far relented as to express a hope that he was coming to tennis to morrow , at which he brightened up a little . 
I do not wish to be uncharitable least of all to a charming young lady but my opinion is that Miss Trix did not wish to set the curate altogether adrift . 
and would now settle down to business . 
I believe , though , he added , that she likes the curate a bit , you know . 
This was no other than the arrival of little Mrs. Wentworth , an intimate friend of Dora's . 
Mrs. Wentworth had been left a widow early in life she possessed a comfortable competence she was not handsome , but she was vivacious , amusing , and , above all , sympathetic . 
Trix and Newhaven happened to enter by the door at the same moment , and Jack darted up to them , and shook hands with the greatest effusion . 
He had evidently buried all unkindness and with it , we hoped , his mistaken folly . 
However that might be , he made no effort to engross Trix , but took his seat most docilely by his hostess and she , of course , introduced him to Mrs. Wentworth . 
Oh , the vicar looks after them , said Jack and he turned to Mrs. Wentworth again . 
There can be no doubt that Mrs. Wentworth had a remarkable power of sympathy . 
I took her in to dinner , and she was deep in the subject of my noble and inspiring art before the soup was off the table . 
After this intervention of Jack's I had not a chance . 
And if Trix did look now and again at Mrs. Wentworth and Jack Ives , I cannot say that her conduct was unnatural . 
No. I think , he said reflectively , that I shall preach on the power of sympathy . 
That sermon afforded me I must confess it , at the risk of seeming frivolous very great entertainment . 
The lady was not , of course , named , but she was clearly indicated . 
Your gift , your precious gift , cried the curate , apostrophizing the impersonation of sympathy , is given to you , not for your profit , but for mine . 
It is yours , but it is a trust to be used for me . 
It is yours , in fact , to share with me . 
For my part I was glad , for the little drama which now began was not without its interest . 
He himself was often an absentee from our games . 
Mrs. Wentworth did not play , and Jack would sit under the trees with her , or take her out in the canoe . 
A little scene which occurred after lunch one day was significant . 
I was sitting on the terrace , ready booted and breeched , waiting for my horse to be brought round . 
Trix came out and sat down by me . 
Where's Newhaven ? I asked . 
Oh , I don't always want Lord Newhaven ! she exclaimed petulantly . 
I sent him off for a walk I'm going out in the Canadian canoe with Mr. Ives . 
Oh , you are , are you ? said I , smiling . 
As I spoke , Jack Ives ran up to us . 
I say , Miss Queenborough , he cried , I've just got your message saying you'd let me take you on the lake . 
Is it a great bore ? asked Trix , with a glance a glance that meant mischief . 
I should like it awfully , of course , said Jack but the fact is I've promised to take Mrs. Wentworth before I got your message , you know . 
Of course , if Mrs. Wentworth she began . 
I'm very sorry , said Jack . 
I suppose her dainty prettiness struck him afresh , for he wavered and hesitated . 
She's gone upstairs , pursued the tempter , and we shall be safe away before she comes down again . 
Jack shuffled with one foot on the gravel . 
If so , he was speedily undeceived . 
Trix flushed red and answered angrily Pray don't trouble . 
I don't want to go . 
Perhaps afterward you might , suggested the curate , but now rather timidly . 
I'm going out with Lord Newhaven , said she . 
And she added , in an access of uncontrollable annoyance . 
I I don't want you . 
Jack sheered off , with a look of puzzled shamefacedness . 
He disappeared into the house . 
Nothing passed between Miss Trix and myself . 
A moment later Newhaven came out . 
Why , Miss Queenborough , said he , in apparent surprise , Ives is going with Mrs. Wentworth in the canoe ! In an instant I saw what she had done . 
In rash presumption she had told Newhaven that she was going with the curate and now the curate had refused to take her and Ives had met him in search of Mrs. Wentworth . 
What could she do ? Well , she rose or fell to the occasion . 
In the coldest of voices she said I thought you'd gone for your walk . 
I was just starting , he answered apologetically , when I met Ives . 
But , as you weren't going with him He paused , an inquiring look in his eyes . 
He was evidently asking himself why she had not gone with the curate . 
I'd rather be left alone , if you don't mind , said she . 
And then , flushing red again , she added . 
I changed my mind and refused to go with Mr. Ives . 
So he went off to get Mrs. Wentworth instead . 
Newhaven looked at her for an instant , and then turned on his heel . 
She turned to me , quick as lightning , and with her face all aflame . 
If you tell , I'll never speak to you again , she whispered . 
After this there was silence for some minutes . 
Well ? she said , without looking at me . 
I have no remark to offer , Miss Queenborough , I returned . 
I suppose that was a lie , wasn't it ? she asked defiantly . 
It's not my business to say what it was , was my discreet answer . 
I know what you're thinking . 
I was thinking , said I , which I would rather be the man you will marry , or the man you would like How dare you ! It's not true . 
Oh Mr. Wynne , indeed it's not true ! Whether it were true or not I did not know . 
with the curate in a staid , quasi maternal way . 
She called him a delightful boy , and said that she was intensely interested in all his aims and hopes . 
What does she want ? I asked Dora despairingly . 
She can't want to marry him . 
I was referring to Trix Queenborough , not to Mrs. Wentworth . 
Good gracious , no ! answered Dora , irritably . 
She won't let the poor boy alone till he's in love with her again . 
It's a horrible shame ! Oh , well , he has great recuperative power , said I. She'd better be careful , though . 
It's a very dangerous game . 
Entering the library suddenly , I heard Newhaven's voice raised above his ordinary tones . 
I won't stand it ! he was declaring . 
I never know how she'll treat me from one minute to the next . 
My entrance , of course , stopped the conversation very abruptly . 
Newhaven had come to a stand in the middle of the room , and Lady Queenborough sat on the sofa , a formidable frown on her brow . 
Withdrawing myself as rapidly as possible , I argued the probability of a severe lecture for Miss Trix , ending in a command to try her noble suitor's patience no longer . 
I hope all this happened , for I , not seeing why Mrs. Wentworth should monopolize the grace of sympathy , took the liberty of extending mine to Newhaven . 
He was certainly in love with Trix , not with her money , and the treatment he underwent must have been as trying to his feelings as it was galling to his pride . 
My sympathy was not premature , for Miss Trix's fascinations , which were indubitably great , began to have their effect . 
The scene about the canoe was re enacted , but with a different denouement . 
This time the promise was forgotten , and the widow forsaken . 
Then Mrs. Wentworth put on her armor . 
The position seemed to me then , and still seems , to indicate some remarkable qualities in that young man . 
At last Newhaven made a move . 
Had he come down to breakfast with Now or Never ! stamped in fiery letters across his brow , it would have been more obtrusive , indeed , but not a whit plainer . 
We all looked down at our plates , except Jack Ives . 
at Newhaven , another at Trix then he remarked kindly We shall be uncommonly sorry to lose you , Newhaven . 
In spite of the solemn warning conveyed in Newhaven's intimation , Trix , greatly daring , went off immediately after lunch for what she described as a long ramble with Mr. Ives . 
The ramble consumed three hours full measure . 
Indeed , it was half past six before Trix , alone , walked up the drive . 
Newhaven , a solitary figure , paced up and down the terrace fronting the drive . 
Trix came on , her head thrown back and a steady smile on her lips . 
Trix's face , its mingled eagerness and shame , its flushed cheeks and shining eyes , the piquancy of its unwonted humility , overcame him . 
I I was obliged to give him an an opportunity , said Miss Trix , having the grace to stumble a little in her speech . 
And and it's all your fault . 
The war was thus , by happy audacity , carried into Newhaven's own quarters . 
My fault ! he exclaimed . 
ran away lightly up the stairs , turning just one glance downward as she reached the landing . 
Newhaven was looking up from below with an enchanted smile the word is Trix's own I should probably have used a different one . 
After dinner Trix was not visible but the door of the little boudoir beyond stood half open , and very soon Newhaven edged his way through . 
Almost at the same moment Jack Ives and Mrs. Wentworth passed out of the window and began to walk up and down the gravel . 
Nobody but myself appeared to notice these remarkable occurrences , but I watched them with keen interest . 
Half an hour passed , and then there smote on my watchful ear the sound of a low laugh from the boudoir . 
It was followed almost immediately by a stranger sound from the gravel walk . 
Then , all in a moment , two things happened . 
The boudoir door opened , and Trix , followed by Newhaven , came in , smiling from the window entered Jack Ives and Mrs. Wentworth . 
My eyes were on the curate . 
He gave one sudden , comprehending glance toward the other couple then he took the widow's hand , led her up to Dora , and said , in low yet penetrating tones . 
Will you wish us joy , Mrs. Polton ? The squire , Rippleby , and Algy Stanton were round them in an instant . 
I kept my place , watching now the face of Trix Queenborough . 
She turned first flaming red , then very pale . 
I saw her turn to Newhaven and speak one or two urgent , imperative words to him . 
Then , drawing herself up to her full height , she crossed the room to where the group was assembled round Mrs. Wentworth and Jack Ives . 
What's the matter ? What are you saying ? she asked . 
Mrs. Wentworth's eyes were modestly cast down , but a smile played round her mouth . 
No one spoke for a moment . 
Then Jack Ives said Mrs. Wentworth has promised to be my wife , Miss Queenborough . 
Jack Ives met Trix's scornful eyes full and square . 
Not at all wasted , said he , with a smile . 
It is as real , Mr. Ives , as it is sincere , said she . 
It is like yourself , Miss Queenborough , said he , with a little bow and he turned from her and began to talk to his fiancee . 
Trix Queenborough moved slowly toward where I sat . 
Newhaven was watching her from where he stood alone on the other side of the room . 
And have you no news for us ? I asked in low tones . 
Thank you , she said haughtily I don't care that mine should be a pendent to the great tidings about the little widow and curate . 
After a moment's pause she went on He lost no time , did he ? He was wise to secure her before what happened this afternoon could leak out . 
Nobody can tell her now . 
This afternoon ? He asked me to marry him this afternoon . 
And you refused ? Yes . 
Well , his behavior is in outrageously bad taste , but She laid a hand on my arm , and said in calm , level tones . 
I refused him because I dared not have him but I told him I cared for him , and he said he loved me . 
And I let him kiss me . 
Good night , Mr. Wynne . 
I sat still and silent . 
Newhaven came across to us . 
Trix put up her hand and caught him by the sleeve . 
Fred , she said , my dear , honest old Fred you love me , don't you ? Newhaven , much embarrassed and surprised , looked at me in alarm . 
But her hand was in his now , and her eyes imploring him . 
I should rather think I did , my dear , said he . 
Perhaps she did perhaps not . 
There are , as I have said , great qualities in the curate of Poltons , but I have not quite made up my mind precisely what they are . 
I ought , however , to say that Dora takes a more favorable view of him and a less lenient view of Trix than I. That is perhaps natural . 
Besides , Dora does not know the precise manner in which the curate was refused . 
By the way , he preached next Sunday on the text , The children of this world are wiser in their generation than the children of light . 
WHICH SHALL IT BE ? It was a charmingly mild and balmy day . 
The sun shone beyond the orchard , and the shade was cool inside . 
A light breeze stirred the boughs of the old apple tree under which the philosopher sat . 
Then he would exclaim against the wind , shuffle the leaves till he got the right page , and settle to his reading . 
, or even to answer it in a work of his own . 
It was just that he found a pleasure in stripping any poor fallacy naked and crucifying it . 
Presently a girl in a white frock came into the orchard . 
She picked up an apple , bit it , and found it ripe . 
Holding it in her hand she walked up to where the philosopher sat , and looked at him . 
She took a bite out of the apple , munched it , and swallowed it . 
The philosopher crucified a fallacy on the fly leaf . 
The girl flung the apple away . 
Mr. Jerningham , said she , are you very busy ? The philosopher , pencil in hand , looked up . 
No , Miss May , said he , not very . 
Because I want your opinion . 
In one moment , said the philosopher apologetically . 
He turned back to the fly leaf and began to nail the last fallacy a little tighter to the cross . 
The girl regarded him , first with amused impatience , then with a vexed frown , finally with a wistful regret . 
Now , Miss May , I am at your service , said the philosopher , with a lingering look at his impaled fallacy . 
And he closed the book , keeping it , however , on his knee . 
The girl sat down just opposite to him . 
I shall not speak of it indeed , I shall probably not remember it , said the philosopher . 
And you mustn't look at me , please , while I'm asking you . 
I don't think I was looking at you , but if I was I beg your pardon , said the philosopher apologetically . 
She pulled the tuft of grass right out of the ground and flung it from her with all her force . 
Suppose a man she began . 
No , that's not right . 
You can take any hypothesis you please , observed the philosopher , but you must verify it afterward , of course . 
Oh , do let me go on . 
Suppose a girl , Mr. Jerningham I wish you wouldn't nod . 
It was only to show that I followed you . 
Oh , of course you follow me , as you call it . 
Suppose a girl had two lovers you're nodding again or , I ought to say , suppose there were two men who might be in love with a girl . 
Only two ? asked the philosopher . 
You see , any number of men MIGHT be in love with Oh , we can leave the rest out , said Miss May , with a sudden dimple they don't matter . 
Very well , said the philosopher . 
If they are irrelevant , we will put them aside . 
Let me take down his proposition . 
What was it ? Why , proposed to her asked her to marry him , said the girl , with a stare . 
Dear me ! How stupid of me ! I forgot that special use of the word . 
Yes ? The girl likes him pretty well , and her people approve of him and all that , you know . 
That simplifies the problem , said the philosopher , nodding again . 
But she's not in in love with him , you know . 
She doesn't REALLY care for him MUCH . 
Do you understand ? Perfectly . 
It is a most natural state of mind . 
like that , pleaded the philosopher , meekly exhibiting his notebook . 
She looked at him in a sort of helpless exasperation , with just a smile somewhere in the background of it . 
Oh , you really are she exclaimed . 
But let me go on . 
The other man is a friend of the girl's he's very clever oh , fearfully clever and he's rather handsome . 
You needn't put that down . 
It is certainly not very material , admitted the philosopher , and he crossed out handsome . 
And the girl is most awfully she admires him tremendously she thinks him just the greatest man that ever lived , you know . 
And she she The girl paused . 
I'm following , said the philosopher , with pencil poised . 
She'd think it better than the whole world if if she could be anything to him , you know . 
You mean become his wife ? Well , of course I do at least suppose I do . 
You spoke rather vaguely , you know . 
The girl cast one glance at the philosopher as she replied Well , yes . 
I did mean , become his wife . 
Well ? But , continued the girl , starting on another tuft of grass , he doesn't think much about those things . 
I think he likes her Well , doesn't dislike her ? suggested the philosopher . 
Shall we call him indifferent ? I don't know . 
I don't think he thinks about it , you know . 
You needn't put that down . 
I was not about to do so , observed the philosopher . 
She thinks life with him would be just heaven and and she thinks she would make him awfully happy . 
She would would be so proud of him , you see . 
Oh , dear ! I dare say I did . 
And most men care for somebody , don't they ? Some girl , I mean . 
Most men , no doubt , conceded the philosopher . 
Well , then , what ought she to do ? It's not a real thing , you know , Mr. Jerningham . 
It's in in a novel I was reading . 
She said this hastily , and blushed as she spoke . 
Dear me ! And it's quite an interesting case ! Yes , I see . 
The question is , Will she act most wisely in accepting the offer of the man who loves her exceedingly , but for whom she entertains only a moderate affection Yes . 
Or in marrying the other , whom she loves ex That's not it . 
How can she marry him ? He hasn't he hasn't asked her , you see . 
Let us assume , though , for the moment , that he has asked her . 
She would then have to consider which marriage would probably be productive of the greater sum total of Oh , but you needn't consider that . 
But it seems the best logical order . 
We can afterward make allowance for the element of uncertainty caused by Oh , no ! I don't want it like that . 
I know perfectly well which she'd do if he the other man , you know asked her . 
You apprehend that Never mind what I apprehend . 
Take it just as I told you . 
A has asked her hand , B has not . 
May I take it that , but for the disturbing influence of B , A would be a satisfactory er candidate ? Ye es . 
She , therefore , enjoys a certainty of considerable happiness if she marries A ? Ye es . 
Not perfect , because of B , you know . 
Quite so , quite so but still a fair amount of happiness . 
Is it not so ? I don't well , perhaps . 
On the other hand , if B did ask her , we are to postulate a higher degree of happiness for her ? Yes , please , Mr. Jerningham much higher . 
For both of them ? For her . 
That again simplifies the problem . 
But his asking her is a contingency only ? Yes , that's all . 
The philosopher spread out his hands . 
My dear young lady , he said , it becomes a question of degree . 
How probable or improbable is it ? I don't know . 
Not very probable unless unless Well ? Unless he did happen to notice , you know . 
We supposed that , if he thought of it , he would probably take the desired step at least that he might be led to do so . 
Could she not er indicate her preference ? She might try no , she couldn't do much . 
You see , he he doesn't think about such things . 
And it seems to me , Miss May , that in that very fact we find our solution . 
Do we ? she asked . 
He has evidently no natural inclination toward her perhaps not toward marriage at all . 
Any feeling aroused in him would be necessarily shallow and in a measure artificial and in all likelihood purely temporary . 
Moreover , if she took steps to arouse his attention , one of two things would be likely to happen . 
Are you following me ? Yes , Mr. Jerningham . 
Either he would be repelled by her overtures which you must admit is not improbable and then the position would be unpleasant , and even degrading , for her . 
You agree with me that one or other of these things would be likely ? Yes , I suppose they would , unless he did come to care for her . 
Ah , you return to that hypothesis . 
I think it's an extremely fanciful one . 
No. She needn't marry A , but she must let B alone . 
The philosopher closed his book , took off his glasses , wiped them , replaced them , and leaned back against the trunk of the apple tree . 
The girl picked a dandelion in pieces . 
After a long pause she asked You think B's feelings wouldn't be at all likely to to change ? That depends on the sort of man he is . 
Then , said the philosopher , I see not the least reason for supposing that his feelings will change . 
And would you advise her to marry the other A ? Well , on the whole , I should . 
he is a suitable match his love for her is true and genuine It's tremendous ! Yes and er extreme . 
There is every reason to hope that her liking will develop into a sufficiently deep and stable affection . 
She will get rid of her folly about B and make A a good wife . 
Yes , Miss May , if I were the author of your novel , I should make her marry A , and I should call that a happy ending . 
It was broken by the philosopher . 
Is that all you wanted my opinion about , Miss May ? he asked , with his finger between the leaves of the treatise on ontology . 
Yes , I think so . 
I hope I haven't bored you ? I've enjoyed the discussion extremely . 
I had no idea that novels raised points of such psychological interest . 
I must find time to read one . 
The girl had shifted her position till , instead of her full face , her profile was turned toward him . 
I mean sorry on his own account that that he had thrown away all that , you know ? The professor looked meditative . 
I think , he pronounced , that it is very possible he would . 
I can well imagine it . 
He might never find anybody to love him like that again , she said , gazing on the gleaming paddock . 
He probably would not , agreed the philosopher . 
And and most people like being loved , don't they ? To crave for love is an almost universal instinct , Miss May . 
Yes , almost , she said , with a dreary little smile . 
You see , he'll get old and and have no one to look after him . 
Well , in a sense none , corrected the philosopher , smiling . 
But really , you'll frighten me . 
I'm a bachelor myself , you know , Miss May . 
Yes , she whispered just audibly . 
And all your terrors are before me . 
Well , unless Oh , we needn't have that unless , laughed the philosopher cheerfully . 
There's no unless' about it , Miss May . 
The girl jumped to her feet for an instant she looked at the philosopher . 
She opened her lips as if to speak , and , at the thought of what lay at her tongue's tip , her face grew red . 
But the philosopher was gazing past her , and his eyes rested in calm contemplation on the gleaming paddock . 
A beautiful thing , sunshine , to be sure , said he . 
Her blush faded away into paleness her lips closed . 
Without speaking she turned and walked slowly away , her head drooping . 
The philosopher heard the rustle of her skirt in the long grass of the orchard he watched her for a few moments . 
A pretty , graceful creature , said he , with a smile . 
Then he opened his book , took his pencil in his hand , and slipped in a careful forefinger to mark the fly leaf . 
The sun had passed mid heaven , and began to decline westward before he finished the book . 
Then he stretched himself and looked at his watch . 
Good gracious , two o'clock ! I shall be late for lunch ! and he hurried to his feet . 
He was very late for lunch . 
Everything's cold , wailed his hostess . 
Where have you been , Mr. Jerningham ? Only in the orchard reading . 
And you've missed May ! Missed Miss May ? How do you mean ? I had a long talk with her this morning a most interesting talk . 
But you weren't here to say goodby . 
She told me to say good by to you for her . 
His hostess looked at him for a moment then she sighed , and smiled , and sighed again . 
Have you everything you want ? she asked . 
against the loaf everything in the world that I want , thanks . 
So that he had no suspicion at all that he had received an offer of marriage and refused it . 
And he did not refer to anything of that sort when he paused once in his reading and exclaimed I'm really sorry I missed Miss May . 
That was an interesting case of hers . 
But I gave the right answer . 
The girl ought to marry A. And so the girl did . 
It is a most anxious thing to be an absolute ruler , said Duke Deodonato , but I have made up my mind . 
The Doctor has convinced me here Dr . 
D. , bowed very low that marriage is the best , noblest , wholesomest , and happiest of human conditions . 
Your Highness will remember began the President of the Council . 
My lord , I have made up my mind , said Duke Deodonato . 
Thus speaking , the Duke took a large sheet of foolscap paper , and wrote rapidly for a moment or two . 
There , he said , pushing the paper over to the President , is the decree . 
The decree , sir ? I think three weeks afford ample space , said Duke Deodonato . 
Three weeks , sir ? For every man over twenty one years of age in this Duchy to find himself a wife . 
Your Highness , observed Dr . 
Fusbius , with deference , will consider that between an abstract proposition and a practical measure There is to the logical mind no stopping place , interrupted Duke Deodonato . 
But , sir , cried the President , imagine the consternation which this Let it be gazetted to night , said Duke Deodonato . 
I would venture , said the President , to remind your Highness that you are yourself a bachelor . 
Laws , said Duke Deodonato , do not bind the Crown unless the Crown is expressly mentioned . 
True , sir but I humbly conceive that it would be pessimi exempli You are right I will marry myself , said Duke Deodonato . 
But , sir , three weeks ! The hand of a princess cannot be requested and granted in Then find me somebody else , said Deodonato and pray leave me . 
I would be alone and Duke Deodonato waved his hand to the door . 
Outside the door the President said to the Doctor I could wish , sir , that you had not convinced his Highness . 
My lord , rejoined the Doctor , truth is my only preoccupation . 
Sir , said the President , are you married ? My lord , answered the Doctor , I am not . 
I thought not , said the President , as he folded up the decree and put it in his pocket . 
It is useless to deny that Duke Deodonato's decree caused considerable disturbance in the Duchy . 
In the first place , the Crown lawyers raised a puzzle of law . 
Did the word man as used in the decree , include woman ? The President shook his head , and referred the question to his Highness . 
It seems immaterial , observed the Duke . 
If a man marries , a woman marries . 
Ex vi terminorum , assented the Doctor . 
But , sir , said the President , there are more women than men in the Duchy . 
Duke Deodonato threw down his pen . 
This is very provoking , said he . 
Why was it allowed ? I'm sure it happened before I came to the throne . 
We did not foresee that your Highness , in your Highness' wisdom , would issue this decree , he said humbly . 
True , said Duke Deodonato , who was a just man . 
Would your Highness vouchsafe any explanation What are the Judges for ? asked Duke Deodonato . 
There is the law let them interpret it . 
Whereupon the Judges held that a man was not a woman , and that although every man must marry , no woman need . 
It will make no difference , said the President . 
None at all , said Dr . 
without regard to such adventitious matters as rank or wealth , and purely for her beauty , talent , and virtue . 
, and did nought else than walk , drive , ride , and display their charms in the park before the windows of the ducal palace . 
Upon this the President and Dr . 
Fusbius sought audience of his Highness and humbly laid before him the unforeseen obstacle which had occurred . 
Woman is ever ambitious , said Dr . 
Nay , corrected the President , they have seen his Highness' person as his Highness has ridden through the city . 
Duke Deodonato threw down his pen . 
This is very tiresome , said he , knitting his brows . 
My lord , I would be further advised on this matter . 
Return at the same hour to morrow . 
The next day , Duke Deodonato's forehead had regained its customary smoothness , and his manner was tranquil and assured . 
The President bowed in admiration . 
It is , if I may humbly say so , a practical and wise solution , sir , he said . 
I apprehend that it will remedy the mischief , said Duke Deodonato , not ill pleased . 
When Duke Deodonato was apprised of this lamentable action on the part of the ladies of the Duchy , he frowned and laid down his pen . 
This is very annoying , said he . 
There appears to be a disposition to thwart Our endeavors for the public good . 
It is gross contumacy , said Dr . 
Yet , remarked the President , inspired by a natural , if ill disciplined , admiration for his Highness' person . 
The decree is now a fortnight old , observed Duke Deodonato . 
I will consider further of this matter . 
, beheld a maiden of wonderful charms struggling in the clutches of two halberdiers of the guard , who were haling her off to prison . 
Bring hither that damsel , said Deodonato . 
Presently the damsel , still held by the soldiers , entered the room . 
Her robe was disheveled and rent , her golden hair hung loose on her shoulders , and her eyes were full of tears . 
At whose suit is she arrested ? asked Deodonato . 
At the suit of the most learned Dr . 
Fusbius , may it please your Highness . 
Fusbius , it is true . 
This lady , grossly contemning your Highness' decree , has refused my hand in marriage . 
Is it true , damsel ? asked Duke Deodonato . 
Hear me , your Highness ! answered she . 
I left my dwelling but an instant , for we were in sore straits for Bread ? asked Deodonato , a touch of sympathy in his voice . 
May it please your Highness , no pins wherewith to fasten our hair . 
And , as I ran to the merchant's , this aged man I am but turned of fifty , interrupted Fusbius . 
And have not yet learned silence ! asked Deodonato severely . 
Damsel , proceed ! Caught me by my gown as I ran , and I proposed marriage to her , said Fusbius . 
Nay , if you proposed marriage , she shall marry you , said Deodonato . 
Send for the Judges , said Duke Deodonato . 
And meanwhile keep this damsel and let no man propose marriage to her until Our pleasure be known . 
Fusbius had proposed marriage unto the maiden or no . 
Thus shall Our mind be informed , and we shall deal profitably with this matter , concluded Duke Deodonato . 
Upon which arose great debate . 
For there was one part of the learned men which leaned upon the letter and found no invitation to marriage in the words of Dr . 
And Duke Deodonato sighed again . 
Speak , therefore , your mind . 
Then the President of the Council looked earnestly at Duke Deodonato , but the Duke veiled his face with his hand . 
Answer truly , said he , without fear or favor . 
So shall you fulfill Our pleasure . 
So be it , said Duke Deodonato and Dr . 
Fusbius smiled in triumph , while the maiden grew pale again . 
So be it , said Deodonato again . 
Saving , added the President , your Highness only . 
There was a movement among the company . 
Hence I , in obedience to your Highness' commands , pronounce and declare that this damsel is lawfully and irrevocably bound and affianced to the learned Dr . 
Fusbius , unless and until it shall please your Highness yourself to demand her hand in marriage . 
May what I have spoken please your Highness ! And the President sat down . 
Duke Deodonato sat a while in thought , and there was silence in the hall . 
Then he spoke Let all withdraw , saving the damsel only . 
And they one and all withdrew , and Duke Deodonato was left alone with the damsel . 
Then he arose and gazed long on the damsel but the damsel would not look on Duke Deodonato . 
How are you called , lady ? asked Duke Deodonato . 
I am called Dulcissima , said she . 
The damsel forbore to strike Duke Deodonato , as she had struck Dr . 
Again her cheek went red , and again pale , and she said I wed no man on compulsion . 
Madam , I am your Sovereign , said Duke Deodonato and his eyes were on the damsel . 
If you were an Archangel cried the damsel . 
Our house is not wont to be scorned of ladies , said Deodonato . 
Am I crooked , or baseborn , or a fool ? This day in your Duchy women are slaves , and men their masters by your will , said she . 
It is the order of nature , said Deodonato . 
It is not my pleasure , said the damsel . 
Then Deodonato laid his hand on his silver bell , for he was very angry . 
Fusbius waits without , said he . 
I will wed him and kill him , cried Dulcissima . 
You had no chance of using the pins , said he , and the rent in your gown is very sore . 
And upon this the eyes of the damsel lost their fire and sought the floor and she plucked at her girdle , and would not look on Deodonato . 
And they said outside It is very still in the Hall of the Duke . 
Then said Deodonato Dulcissima , what would you ? That you repeal your decrees , said she . 
Deodonato's brow grew dark he did not love to go back . 
What I have decreed , I have decreed , said he . 
And what I have resolved , I have resolved , said she . 
Deodonato drew near to her . 
And if I repeal the decrees ? said he . 
You will do well , said she . 
And you will wed Whom I will , said she . 
And she prayed a prayer that no man heard , or , if he heard , might be so base as to tell . 
But she saw the dark locks of Deodonato's hair and his form , straight as an arrow and tall as a six foot wand , in the window . 
And again , outside , they said It is strangely still in the Hall of the Duke . 
And the small eyes of Fusbius glowed , and the calm eyes of the President smiled . 
My Cousins , Gentlemen , and my faithful Guard , said Deodonato , Time , which is Heaven's mighty Instrument , brings counsel . 
Say ! what the Duke has done , shall any man undo ? Then cried they all , save one No man ! And the President said Saving the Duke . 
The decrees which I made , said Deodonato , I unmake . 
Henceforth let men and maidens in my Duchy marry or not marry as they will , and God give them joy of it . 
Let him speak no more ! And again he drew near to Dulcissima , and there , before them all , he fell on his knee . 
And a murmur ran through the hall . 
Madam , said Deodonato , if you love me , wed me . 
And , if you love me not , depart in peace and in honor and I , Deodonato , will live my life alone . 
Then the damsel trembled , and barely did Deodonato catch her words There are many men here , said she . 
It is not given to Princes , said Deodonato , to be alone . 
Nevertheless , if you will , leave me alone . 
And the damsel bent low , so that the breath of her mouth stirred the hair on Deodonato's head , and he shivered as he knelt . 
My Prince and my King ! said she . 
And Deodonato shot to his feet , and before them all he kissed her , and , turning , spoke As I have wooed , let every man in this Duchy woo . 
As I have won , let every man that is worthy win . 
And a great cheer rang out in the Hall , and Fusbius fled to the door and they tore his gown as he went and cursed him for a knave . 
more windows in the Duchy of Deodonato than anywhere in the wide world besides . 
ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL . 
There was once the date is of no moment a Sultan , and he had a Vizier named Ashimullah . 
Yet , remembering his discreditable past , the Sultan was accustomed to exact from him the fullest and most minute observance of his religious duties . 
But there was one point on which his conscience struck him sorely , and this was no other than the question of wives . 
To obey was to sin , to refuse was likely to cost him his life for if his master suspected the sincerity of his conversion , his shrift would be short . 
In this quandary Ashimullah sought about for excuses . 
O Commander of the Faithful , I am a poor man , and wives are sources of expense , said Ashimullah . 
My treasury is open to the most faithful of my servants , said the Sultan . 
A multitude of women in a house breeds strife , urged Ashimullah . 
He who governs an empire should be able to govern his own house , remarked the Sultan . 
I have no pleasure in the society of women , pleaded Ashimullah . 
It is not a question of pleasure , said the Sultan solemnly , and Ashimullah thought that he saw signs of suspicion on his master's august face . 
Therefore he prostrated himself , crying that he submitted to the imperial will , and would straightway take another wife . 
I do not love a grudging obedience , said the Sultan . 
I will take two ! cried Ashimullah . 
Take three , said the Sultan and with this he dismissed Ashimullah , giving him the space of a week in which to fulfill the command laid upon him . 
Surely I am a most unhappy man , mused Ashimullah . 
For if I do not obey , I shall be put to death and if I do obey , I fear greatly that I shall be damned . 
And he went home looking so sorrowful and perplexed that all men conceived that he was out of favor with the Sultan . 
For you know well , Star of my Heart , said he , that I desire no wife but you ! I know it well , Ashimullah , answered Lallakalla tenderly . 
Moreover , I fear that I shall be damned , whispered Ashimullah . 
I'm sure you would , said Lallakalla . 
The first was rosy cheeked with golden hair the second's complexion was olive , and her locks black as night the third had a wonderful pallor , and tresses like burnished gold . 
Thus , added Hassan , since my lady Lallakalla's hair is brown , his Highness the Vizier enjoys , as is his most just due , all varieties of beauty . 
Moreover , he approved highly of the taste that Ashimullah had displayed in his choice , and regretted very deeply that he could not behold the charms of the wives of the Vizier . 
We must make ready for the visit of the Sultana , observed Lallakalla , with a smile . 
I would that your Majesty could behold them ! I would that I could ! said the Sultan , stroking his beard . 
Not even my presence would have restrained them , and therefore I saw each alone . 
I do not object to a little temper , observed the Sultan , stroking his beard again . 
It is a sauce to beauty , and keeps a man alive . 
It is only toward one another that they are fierce , said the Sultana . 
For all spoke with the greatest love of Ashimullah , and with the most dutiful respect . 
I do not see on what account they are so fond of Ashimullah , said the Sultan , frowning . 
But the Sultana , having returned , professed herself entirely unable to set any one of Ashimullah's wives above any other in any point of beauty . 
For they are all , said she , and each in her own way , houris for beauty . 
And this man was a Christian dog once ! murmured the Sultan . 
Therefore he sent for Ashimullah , and spoke to him with unbounded graciousness . 
Therefore I have decided to exalt you and your household in the eyes of all the Faithful , and of the whole world , by taking from your house a wife for myself . 
When Ashimullah heard this he went very pale , although , in truth , what the Sultan proposed to do was always held the highest of honors . 
Surely by now I have learned how to deal with the tempers of women , said the Sultan , raising his brows . 
Come , Ashimullah tell me which is fairest . 
But describe them to me , one by one , commanded the Sultan . 
By Allah , it is difficult ! said the Sultan , pulling his beard fretfully . 
I will consider your several descriptions , and send for you again in a few days , Ashimullah . 
But , alas ! it is all one to me , whichever he chooses , cried Ashimullah , in despair . 
It is all one to me also , cried Lallakalla . 
But , be sure , dear Ashimullah , that the Sultan has some purpose in this delay . 
Let us wait and see what he does . 
It may be that we need not yet despair . 
But Ashimullah would not be comforted , and cried out that he had done better never to forswear his religion , but to have died at once , as a holy martyr . 
It is too late to think of that , said Lallakalla . 
But this resolution he ventured to communicate to nobody , save to the faithful and dutiful wife whom he had sent before to visit the house of Ashimullah . 
Though I fear no good will come of it , she sighed . 
I wonder which is in truth the fairest ! murmured the Sultan . 
And he sent word to Ashimullah that the Sultana would visit his wives on the evening of that day . 
All will be ready for her , said Lallakalla , when she received the message from her husband . 
And Hassan pierced a hole in the screen , so that the big slave could see what passed in the antechamber without being seen himself . 
Then Hassan , still shaking his head , but also patting his purse , went to summon Lallakalla . 
But the big black slave lay quiet behind the screen . 
Presently Lallakalla passed through and entered the room where the Sultana was . 
A few moments later Ashimullah came in , carrying over one arm several robes of silk and in the other a large box or trunk . 
Ashimullah looked round cautiously , but saw nobody the big black slave held his breath , but laid his hand on the scimitar that he wore . 
Yes , of a truth this brown haired one is most lovely , thought the big slave . 
It would seem impossible that the others can be so lovely . 
Moreover , she looks amiable enough . 
Yet I must see the others . 
And , having put on the blue robe , she took from Ashimullah's hand something that he had taken from the square box , and put it on her head . 
Then Ashimullah gave her a smaller box , and , taking out paints and brushes and a mirror , she made a complexion for herself . 
And thus she was transformed into a golden haired lady with cheeks of rosy red , and in this guise she passed in to the Sultana's presence . 
The dog ! thought the slave . 
Thus arrayed she went again into the room where the Sultana was . 
Then Hassan came and led the slave back by the way they had come to the place where he awaited the Sultana . 
This wife of Ashimullah is a wonderful woman , said the Sultan to himself , as he lay awake that night . 
Behold , she is in herself a multitude ! Early the next morning Ashimullah was summoned to the palace , and at once ushered into the presence of the Sultan . 
O Ashimullah , I have reflected , said the Sultan , and I desire that you will send me that wife of yours who has ruddy hair . 
For although the choice is difficult , yet I think that she must be the fairest of them all . 
With her he talked for some time then he returned to the palace , weeping and wringing his hands . 
What ails you , Ashimullah ? asked the Sultan . 
Alas ! O Light of the World , a pestilence has fallen on my house , and my wife with the ruddy hair lies dead . 
We must resign ourselves to the will of Heaven , said the Sultan . 
Yet I will not recall the favor I had destined for you . 
Send me the wife that has coal black hair , Ashimullah . 
Alas ! Most Mighty One , misfortunes crowd upon me . 
That graceless wife has fled from me in company with a fishmonger , groaned Ashimullah . 
You are well quit of her , and so also am I , remarked the Sultan . 
Yet I am not to be turned from my benevolent purpose , and rather than fail in doing you honor , I will accept the wife with the golden hair . 
Alas ! and alas ! High and Potent Majesty , Heaven has set its wrath upon me . 
As she rowed this morning , the boat upset , and she , my golden haired beauty , was drowned ! And Ashimullah laid his head on the ground and sobbed pitifully . 
Of a truth you are afflicted . 
Yet do not despair , I will comfort you , my good Ashimullah , said the Sultan . 
Send me the wife with the brown hair , and all shall be well . 
By Allah ! I am a man that hears reason , and does not exact more than Fate will allow ! A man can give only what he has . 
I shall be well pleased with her of the brown hair , Ashimullah . 
Then Ashimullah crawled to the feet of the Sultan , and said Ruler of the World , great is the honor that you purpose for the meanest of your servants . 
Yet behold , if I send my wife with the brown hair , I shall have no wife at all for the others are gone , and my house will be altogether desolate . 
The Sultan smiled down at Ashimullah . 
Then he bent and took him by the hands and raised him up . 
Such is not the custom of great princes , nor is it my custom . 
But where we take we give fourfold of what is given to us . 
Be of good cheer , and grieve no more either for the wives who are dead or for the brown haired wife whom it is my gracious pleasure to accept from you . 
For I will send you four wives and thus you shall be as you were before your misfortunes , and before you gave me your brown haired wife . 
, I think that you have means to set right what is wrong , and to array the head of each in the color that you love best . 
And , as he said this , the Sultan looked very full and significantly in the face of Ashimullah . 
Moreover , although this could not stand beside the question of his salvation , he regretted greatly the losing of Lallakalla , whom the Sultan took from him . 
But , when he entered , he gave a loud cry of surprise . 
For , behold , the hair on Lallakalla's head was red . 
But then he smiled and said to her Take off the wig , my daughter . 
I obey , said she , but I pray you to look away while I obey . 
So the Sultan looked away , and , when he turned again , her hair was golden . 
Take that off also , said the Sultan , turning his head away . 
And when he looked again her hair was coal black . 
Take that off also , said the Sultan . 
I obey , said Lallakalla , and the Sultan turned away . 
Now , said he , I will behold your own brown hair , and he turned to her . 
But again he cried out in surprise and horror . 
For there was no brown hair on Lallakalla's head , but her head was bare and shaven as clean as the ball of ivory on the staff that the Sultan carried . 
Therefore I have left the brown hair for Ashimullah , for he loves it , and I have brought my lord the colors that my lord loves . 
And with this she laid the three wigs of black hair , of golden , and of ruddy at the Sultan's feet , and stood herself before him with her shaven poll . 
Then the Sultan , seeing that Lallakalla looked very ludicrous with her shaven poll , burst out laughing . 
My lord , said she , suffer me also to take back with me the other wives of Ashimullah , and she pointed to the heads of hair that lay upon the ground . 
Take them , said he , laughing . 
And since Ashimullah has already four wives and yet will give me no wife , why , neither will I give Ashimullah any wives . 
But he shall have the four wives that he had before , and all the city shall hear of the beauty and the virtue of Ashimullah's wives . 
So Lallakalla went home in great joy , and put on her own hair , which she had fashioned into a wig , and went in to Ashimullah . 
And they dwelt happily together , there being no differences in their household , save in the color of Lallakalla's hair from day to day . 
But the Sultan raised a pillar of many colored marble , black and gold , brown and red , and inscribed it , To the Virtues of the Wives of Ashimullah the Vizier . 
And henceforward none troubled Ashimullah concerning his wives . 
Hassan , however , was most justly put to death . 
