Etext created by John M. Krafft krafftjm muohio . 
edu From The Discovery and Settlement of Kentucke by John Filson The ADVENTURES of Col . 
DANIEL BOON containing a NARRATIVE of the WARS of Kentucke . 
Curiosity is natural to the soul of man , and interesting objects have a powerful influence on our affections . 
And we view Kentucke situated on the fertile banks of the great Ohio , rising from obscurity to shine with splendor , equal to any other of the stars of the American hemisphere . 
The settling of this region well deserves a place in history . 
Here let me observe , that for some time we had experienced the most uncomfortable weather as a prelibation of our future sufferings . 
At this place we encamped , and made a shelter to defend us from the inclement season , and began to hunt and reconnoitre the country . 
We found every where abundance of wild beasts of all sorts , through this vast forest . 
Sometimes we saw hundreds in a drove , and the numbers about the salt springs were amazing . 
In this forest , the habitation of beasts of every kind natural to America , we practised hunting with great success until the twenty second day of December following . 
This day John Stewart and I had a pleasing ramble , but fortune changed the scene in the close of it . 
We had passed through a great forest on which stood myriads of trees , some gay with blossoms , others rich with fruits . 
Nature was here a series of wonders , and a fund of delight . 
The time of our sorrow was now arrived , and the scene fully opened . 
The Indians plundered us of what we had , and kept us in confinement seven days , treating us with common savage usage . 
Soon after this , my companion in captivity , John Stewart , was killed by the savages , and the man that came with my brother returned home by himself . 
We were then in a dangerous , helpless situation , exposed daily to perils and death amongst savages and wild beasts , not a white man in the country but ourselves . 
Thus situated , many hundred miles from our families in the howling wilderness , I believe few would have equally enjoyed the happiness we experienced . 
I often observed to my brother , You see now how little nature requires to be satisfied . 
This consists in a full resignation to the will of Providence and a resigned soul finds pleasure in a path strewed with briars and thorns . 
We continued not in a state of indolence , but hunted every day , and prepared a little cottage to defend us from the Winter storms . 
I confess I never before was under greater necessity of exercising philosophy and fortitude . 
A few days I passed uncomfortably . 
The idea of a beloved wife and family , and their anxiety upon the account of my absence and exposed situation , made sensible impressions on my heart . 
A thousand dreadful apprehensions presented themselves to my view , and had undoubtedly disposed me to melancholy , if further indulged . 
One day I undertook a tour through the country , and the diversity and beauties of nature I met with in this charming season , expelled every gloomy and vexatious thought . 
Just at the close of day the gentle gales retired , and left the place to the disposal of a profound calm . 
Not a breeze shook the most tremulous leaf . 
I had gained the summit of a commanding ridge , and , looking round with astonishing delight , beheld the ample plains , the beauteous tracts below . 
On the other hand , I surveyed the famous river Ohio that rolled in silent dignity , marking the western boundary of Kentucke with inconceivable grandeur . 
At a vast distance I beheld the mountains lift their venerable brows , and penetrate the clouds . 
I kindled a fire near a fountain of sweet water , and feasted on the loin of a buck , which a few hours before I had killed . 
The sullen shades of night soon overspread the whole hemisphere , and the earth seemed to gasp after the hovering moisture . 
My roving excursion this day had fatigued my body , and diverted my imagination . 
I laid me down to sleep , and I awoke not until the sun had chased away the night . 
I continued this tour , and in a few days explored a considerable part of the country , each day equally pleased as the first . 
I returned again to my old camp , which was not disturbed in my absence . 
In this situation I was constantly exposed to danger , and death . 
How unhappy such a situation for a man tormented with fear , which is vain if no danger comes , and if it does , only augments the pain . 
It was my happiness to be destitute of this afflicting passion , with which I had the greatest reason to be affected . 
The prowling wolves diverted my nocturnal hours with perpetual howlings and the various species of animals in this vast forest , in the daytime , were continually in my view . 
Thus I was surrounded with plenty in the midst of want . 
I was happy in the midst of dangers and inconveniences . 
In such a diversity it was impossible I should be disposed to melancholy . 
No populous city , with all the varieties of commerce and stately structures , could afford so much pleasure to my mind , as the beauties of nature I found here . 
I returned safe to my old habitation , and found my family in happy circumstances . 
Of these my eldest son was one that fell in the action . 
We had passed over two mountains , viz . 
Powel's and Walden's , and were approaching Cumberland mountain when this adverse fortune overtook us . 
Over these , nature hath formed passes , that are less difficult than might be expected from a view of such huge piles . 
The aspect of these cliffs is so wild and horrid , that it is impossible to behold them without terror . 
We immediately complied with the Governor's request , and conducted in the surveyors , compleating a tour of eight hundred miles , through many difficulties , in sixty two days . 
I soon began this work , having collected a number of enterprising men , well armed . 
This was on the twentieth of March , . 
Three days after , we were fired upon again , and had two men killed , and three wounded . 
On the fourth day , the Indians killed one of our men . 
On the twenty fourth day of December following we had one man killed , and one wounded , by the Indians , who seemed determined to persecute us for erecting this fortification . 
On the fourteenth day of July , , two of Col . 
Calaway's daughters , and one of mine , were taken prisoners near the fort . 
I immediately pursued the Indians , with only eight men , and on the sixteenth overtook them , killed two of the party , and recovered the girls . 
This was extremely distressing to the new settlers . 
The innocent husbandman was shot down , while busy cultivating the soil for his family's supply . 
Most of the cattle around the stations were destroyed . 
On the fourth day of July following , a party of about two hundred Indians attacked Boonsborough , killed one man , and wounded two . 
They besieged us forty eight hours during which time seven of them were killed , and at last , finding themselves not likely to prevail , they raised the siege , and departed . 
The Indians had disposed their warriors in different parties at this time , and attacked the different garrisons to prevent their assisting each other , and did much injury to the distressed inhabitants . 
On the nineteenth day of this month , Col . 
Logan's fort was besieged by a party of about two hundred Indians . 
During this dreadful siege they did a great deal of mischief , distressed the garrison , in which were only fifteen men , killed two , and wounded one . 
The enemies loss was uncertain , from the common practice which the Indians have of carrying off their dead in time of battle . 
Thus we passed through a scene of sufferings that exceeds description . 
On the twenty fifth of this month a reinforcement of forty five men arrived from North Carolina , and about the twentieth of August following , Col . 
Bowman arrived with one hundred men from Virginia . 
Now we began to strengthen , and from hence , for the space of six weeks , we had skirmishes with Indians , in one quarter or other , almost every day . 
The savages now learned the superiority of the Long Knife , as they call the Virginians , by experience being out generalled in almost every battle . 
Our affairs began to wear a new aspect , and the enemy , not daring to venture on open war , practised secret mischief at times . 
This was a long and fatiguing march , through an exceeding fertile country , remarkable for fine springs and streams of water . 
I was exceedingly familiar and friendly with them , always appearing as chearful and satisfied as possible , and they put great confidence in me . 
I often went a hunting with them , and frequently gained their applause for my activity at our shooting matches . 
I was careful not to exceed many of them in shooting for no people are more envious than they in this sport . 
I could observe , in their countenances and gestures , the greatest expressions of joy when they exceeded me and , when the reverse happened , of envy . 
The Shawanese king took great notice of me , and treated me with profound respect , and entire friendship , often entrusting me to hunt at my liberty . 
I frequently returned with the spoils of the woods , and as often presented some of what I had taken to him , expressive of duty to my sovereign . 
My food and lodging was , in common , with them , not so good indeed as I could desire , but necessity made every thing acceptable . 
The Indians had spies out viewing our movements , and were greatly alarmed with our increase in number and fortifications . 
The Grand Councils of the nations were held frequently , and with more deliberation than usual . 
They evidently saw the approaching hour when the Long Knife would disposess them of their desirable habitations and anxiously concerned for futurity , determined utterly to extirpate the whites out of Kentucke . 
We were not intimidated by their movements , but frequently gave them proofs of our courage . 
We advanced within four miles thereof , where we met a party of thirty Indians , on their march against Boonsborough , intending to join the others from Chelicothe . 
A smart fight ensued betwixt us for some time At length the savages gave way , and fled . 
We had no loss on our side The enemy had one killed , and two wounded . 
We passed by them on the sixth day , and on the seventh , we arrived safe at Boonsborough . 
On the eighth , the Indian army arrived , being four hundred and forty four in number , commanded by Capt . 
It was now a critical period with us . 
We were a small number in the garrison . 
A powerful army before our walls , whose appearance proclaimed inevitable death , fearfully painted , and marking their footsteps with desolation . 
Death was preferable to captivity and if taken by storm , we must inevitably be devoted to destruction . 
In this situation we concluded to maintain our garrison , if possible . 
Your efforts will not prevail for our gates shall for ever deny you admittance . 
This sounded grateful in our ears and we agreed to the proposal . 
We held the treaty within sixty yards of the garrison , on purpose to divert them from a breach of honour , as we could not avoid suspicions of the savages . 
We agreed to this also , but were soon convinced their policy was to take us prisoners . 
They immediately attacked us on every side , and a constant heavy fire ensued between us day and night for the space of nine days . 
In this time the enemy began to undermine our fort , which was situated sixty yards from Kentucke river . 
During this dreadful siege , which threatened death in every form , we had two men killed , and four wounded , besides a number of cattle . 
We killed of the enemy thirty seven , and wounded a great number . 
Soon after this , I went into the settlement , and nothing worthy of a place in this account passed in my affairs for some time . 
During my absence from Kentucke , Col . 
Bowman carried on an expedition against the Shawanese , at Old Chelicothe , with one hundred and sixty men , in July , . 
Here they arrived undiscovered , and a battle ensued , which lasted until ten o'clock , A. M. when Col . 
Bowman , finding he could not succeed at this time , retreated about thirty miles . 
The Indians , in the meantime , collecting all their forces , pursued and overtook him , when a smart fight continued near two hours , not to the advantage of Col . 
Harrod proposed to mount a number of horse , and furiously to rush upon the savages , who at this time fought with remarkable fury . 
This desperate step had a happy effect , broke their line of battle , and the savages fled on all sides . 
In these two battles we had nine killed , and one wounded . 
The enemy's loss uncertain , only two scalps being taken . 
On the twenty second day of June , , a large party of Indians and Canadians , about six hundred in number , commanded by Col . 
Bird , attacked Riddle's and Martin's stations , at the Forks of Licking River , with six pieces of artillery . 
Such as were weak and faint by the way , they tomahawked . 
The tender women , and helpless children , fell victims to their cruelty . 
This , and the savage treatment they received afterwards , is shocking to humanity , and too barbarous to relate . 
Shortly after the troubles at Boonsborough , I went to them , and lived peaceably there until this time . 
They shot him , and pursued me , by the scent of their dog , three miles but I killed the dog , and escaped . 
The winter soon came on , and was very severe , which confined the Indians to their wigwams . 
The severity of this Winter caused great difficulties in Kentucke . 
The enemy had destroyed most of the corn , the Summer before . 
This necessary article was scarce , and dear and the inhabitants lived chiefly on the flesh of buffaloes . 
Towards Spring , we were frequently harassed by Indians and , in May , , a party assaulted Ashton's station , killed one man , and took a Negro prisoner . 
The Indians continued their hostilities and , about the tenth of August following , two boys were taken from Major Hoy's station . 
This party was pursued by Capt . 
Holder and seventeen men , who were also defeated , with the loss of four men killed , and one wounded . 
Our affairs became more and more alarming . 
Several stations which had lately been erected in the country were continually infested with savages , stealing their horses and killing the men at every opportunity . 
In a field , near Lexington , an Indian shot a man , and running to scalp him , was himself shot from the fort , and fell dead upon his enemy . 
Every day we experienced recent mischiefs . 
Their savage minds were inflamed to mischief by two abandoned men , Captains McKee and Girty . 
Of the garrison four were killed , and three wounded . 
On the eighteenth day Col . 
Trigg , Major Harland , and myself , speedily collected one hundred and seventy six men , well armed , and pursued the savages . 
The savages observing us , gave way and we , being ignorant of their numbers , passed the river . 
The brave and much lamented Colonels Todd and Trigg , Major Harland and my second son , were among the dead . 
On our retreat we were met by Col . 
So valiantly did our small party fight , that , to the memory of those who unfortunately fell in the battle , enough of honour cannot be paid . 
Logan and his party been with us , it is highly probable we should have given the savages a total defeat . 
I cannot reflect upon this dreadful scene , but sorrow fills my heart . 
A zeal for the defence of their country led these heroes to the scene of action , though with a few men to attack a powerful army of experienced warriors . 
When we gave way , they pursued us with the utmost eagerness , and in every quarter spread destruction . 
The river was difficult to cross , and many were killed in the flight , some just entering the river , some in the water , others after crossing in ascending the cliffs . 
Some escaped on horse back , a few on foot and , being dispersed every where , in a few hours , brought the melancholy news of this unfortunate battle to Lexington . 
Many widows were now made . 
The reader may guess what sorrow filled the hearts of the inhabitants , exceeding any thing that I am able to describe . 
Being reinforced , we returned to bury the dead , and found their bodies strewed every where , cut and mangled in a dreadful manner . 
These returned quick as lightening to their camp with the alarming news of a mighty army in view . 
The savages fled in the utmost disorder , evacuated their towns , and reluctantly left their territory to our mercy . 
We immediately took possession of Old Chelicothe without opposition , being deserted by its inhabitants . 
In this expedition we took seven prisoners and five scalps , with the loss of only four men , two of whom were accidentally killed by our own army . 
This campaign in some measure damped the spirits of the Indians , and made them sensible of our superiority . 
The savages instantly appeared , and applied their tomahawks to the door . 
An old rusty gun barrel , without a lock , lay in a corner , which the mother put through a small crevice , and the savages , perceiving it , fled . 
In the mean time , the alarm spread through the neighbourhood the armed men collected immediately , and pursued the ravagers into the wilderness . 
Thus Providence , by the means of this Negro , saved the whole of the poor family from destruction . 
From that time , until the happy return of peace between the United States and Great Britain , the Indians did us no mischief . 
To conclude , I can now say that I have verified the saying of an old Indian who signed Col . 
My footsteps have often been marked with blood , and therefore I can truly subscribe to its original name . 
Two darling sons , and a brother , have I lost by savage hands , which have also taken from me forty valuable horses , and abundance of cattle . 
But now the scene is changed Peace crowns the sylvan shade . 
Let peace , descending from her native heaven , bid her olives spring amidst the joyful nations and plenty , in league with commerce , scatter blessings from her copious hand . 
This account of my adventures will inform the reader of the most remarkable events of this country . 
DANIEL BOON End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of Adventures of Col . 
