FRECKLES Gene Stratton Porter To all good Irishmen in general and one CHARLES DARWIN PORTER in particular Characters FRECKLES , a plucky waif who guards the Limberlost timber leases and dreams of Angels . 
THE SWAMP ANGEL , in whom Freckles' sweetest dream materializes . 
MCLEAN , a member of a Grand Rapids lumber company , who befriends Freckles . 
DUNCAN , who gives mother love and a home to Freckles . 
DUNCAN , head teamster of McLean's timber gang . 
THE BIRD WOMAN , who is collecting camera studies of birds for a book . 
LORD AND LADY O'MORE , who come from Ireland in quest of a lost relative . 
THE MAN OF AFFAIRS , brusque of manner , but big of heart . 
WESSNER , a Dutch timber thief who wants rascality made easy . 
BLACK JACK , a villain to whom thought of repentance comes too late . 
At a glance he might have been mistaken for a tramp , but he was truly seeking work . 
He was intensely eager to belong somewhere and to be attached to almost any enterprise that would furnish him food and clothing . 
A feeling of homeless friendlessness swept over him in a sickening wave . 
Without stopping to think , he turned into the newly made road and followed it to the camp , where the gang was making ready for supper and bed . 
The scene was intensely attractive . 
The thickness of the swamp made a dark , massive background below , while above towered gigantic trees . 
The men were calling jovially back and forth as they unharnessed tired horses that fell into attitudes of rest and crunched , in deep content , the grain given them . 
The green wood fire hissed and crackled merrily . 
Wreathing tongues of flame wrapped around the big black kettles , and when the cook lifted the lids to plunge in his testing fork , gusts of savory odors escaped . 
I want to speak with the Boss , he said . 
The cook glanced at him and answered carelessly He can't use you . 
The color flooded Freckles' face , but he said simply If you will be having the goodness to point him out , we will give him a chance to do his own talking . 
With a shrug of astonishment , the cook led the way to a rough board table where a broad , square shouldered man was bending over some account books . 
Mr. McLean , here's another man wanting to be taken on the gang , I suppose , he said . 
All right , came the cheery answer . 
I never needed a good man more than I do just now . 
The manager turned a page and carefully began a new line . 
No use of your bothering with this fellow , volunteered the cook . 
He hasn't but one hand . 
The flush on Freckles' face burned deeper . 
His lips thinned to a mere line . 
He lifted his shoulders , took a step forward , and thrust out his right arm , from which the sleeve dangled empty at the wrist . 
That will do , Sears , came the voice of the Boss sharply . 
I will interview my man when I finish this report . 
He turned to his work , while the cook hurried to the fires . 
Freckles stood one instant as he had braced himself to meet the eyes of the manager then his arm dropped and a wave of whiteness swept him . 
The Boss had not even turned his head . 
He had used the possessive . 
When he said my man , the hungry heart of Freckles went reaching toward him . 
The boy drew a quivering breath . 
Then he whipped off his old hat and beat the dust from it carefully . 
With his left hand he caught the right sleeve , wiped his sweaty face , and tried to straighten his hair with his fingers . 
He broke a spray of ironwort beside him and used the purple bloom to beat the dust from his shoulders and limbs . 
The Boss , busy over his report , was , nevertheless , vaguely alive to the toilet being made behind him , and scored one for the man . 
It was his habit to work slowly and methodically . 
The men of his camps never had known him to be in a hurry or to lose his temper . 
Discipline was inflexible , but the Boss was always kind . 
He shared camp life with his gangs . 
No man of McLean's gangs could honestly say that he ever had been overdriven or underpaid . 
The Boss never had exacted any deference from his men , yet so intense was his personality that no man of them ever had attempted a familiarity . 
They all knew him to be a thorough gentleman , and that in the great timber city several millions stood to his credit . 
He was the only son of that McLean who had sent out the finest ships ever built in Scotland . 
That his son should carry on this business after the father's death had been his ambition . 
He had sent the boy through the universities of Oxford and Edinburgh , and allowed him several years' travel before he should attempt his first commission for the firm . 
Then he was ordered to southern Canada and Michigan to purchase a consignment of tall , straight timber for masts , and south to Indiana for oak beams . 
The young man entered these mighty forests , parts of which lay untouched since the dawn of the morning of time . 
The clear , cool , pungent atmosphere was intoxicating . 
The intense silence , like that of a great empty cathedral , fascinated him . 
He gradually learned that , to the shy wood creatures that darted across his path or peeped inquiringly from leafy ambush , he was brother . 
He found himself approaching , with a feeling of reverence , those majestic trees that had stood through ages of sun , wind , and snow . 
Soon it became difficult to fell them . 
When he had filled his order and returned home , he was amazed to learn that in the swamps and forests he had lost his heart and it was calling forever calling him . 
When he inherited his father's property , he promptly disposed of it , and , with his mother , founded a home in a splendid residence in the outskirts of Grand Rapids . 
With three partners , he organized a lumber company . 
His work was to purchase , fell , and ship the timber to the mills . 
Marshall managed the milling process and passed the lumber to the factory . 
From the lumber , Barthol made beautiful and useful furniture , which Uptegrove scattered all over the world from a big wholesale house . 
He was dressed in the roughest of farm clothing , and seemed tired to the point of falling . 
You are looking for work ? questioned McLean . 
I hoped that you would do , but I am afraid you are too young and scarcely strong enough . 
Freckles stood , hat in hand , watching McLean . 
And what was it you thought I might be doing ? he asked . 
The Boss could scarcely repress a start . 
Somewhere before accident and poverty there had been an ancestor who used cultivated English , even with an accent . 
The boy spoke in a mellow Irish voice , sweet and pure . 
He was of foreign birth , and despite years of alienation , in times of strong feeling he committed inherited sins of accent and construction . 
It's no child's job , answered McLean . 
I am the field manager of a big lumber company . 
We have just leased two thousand acres of the Limberlost . 
Many of these trees are of great value . 
We can't leave our camp , six miles south , for almost a year yet so we have blazed a trail and strung barbed wires securely around this lease . 
I shall require the entire length of the trail to be walked at least twice each day , to make sure that our lines are up and that no one has been trespassing . 
Freckles was leaning forward , absorbing every word with such intense eagerness that he was beguiling the Boss into explanations he had never intended making . 
But why wouldn't that be the finest job in the world for me ? he pleaded . 
I could walk the trail twice , three times every day , and I'd be watching sharp all the while . 
It's because you are scarcely more than a boy , and this will be a trying job for a work hardened man , answered McLean . 
You see , in the first place , you would be afraid . 
In stretching our lines , we killed six rattlesnakes almost as long as your body and as thick as your arm . 
It's the price of your life to start through the marshgrass surrounding the swamp unless you are covered with heavy leather above your knees . 
You should be able to swim in case high water undermines the temporary bridge we have built where Sleepy Snake Creek enters the swamp . 
The fall and winter changes of weather are abrupt and severe , while I would want strict watch kept every day . 
You would always be alone , and I don't guarantee what is in the Limberlost . 
It is lying here as it has lain since the beginning of time , and it is alive with forms and voices . 
Worst of all , any man who will enter the swamp to mark and steal timber is desperate . 
One of my employees at the south camp , John Carter , compelled me to discharge him for a number of serious reasons . 
He has sworn to have these trees if he has to die or to kill others to get them and he is a man that the strongest would not care to meet . 
But if he came to steal trees , wouldn't he bring teams and men enough that all anyone could do would be to watch and be after you ? queried the boy . 
Then why couldn't I be watching just as closely , and coming as fast , as an older , stronger man ? asked Freckles . 
Why , by George , you could ! exclaimed McLean . 
I don't know as the size of a man would be half so important as his grit and faithfulness , come to think of it . 
Sit on that log there and we will talk it over . 
What is your name ? Freckles shook his head at the proffer of a seat , and folding his arms , stood straight as the trees around him . 
He grew a shade whiter , but his eyes never faltered . 
Good enough for everyday , laughed McLean , but I scarcely can put Freckles' on the company's books . 
I haven't any name , replied the boy . 
I don't understand , said McLean . 
I was thinking from the voice and the face of you that you wouldn't , said Freckles slowly . 
I've spent more time on it than I ever did on anything else in all me life , and I don't understand . 
For the most part we were a lot of little Irishmen together . 
They could always find homes for the other children , but nobody would ever be wanting me on account of me arm . 
Were they kind to you ? McLean regretted the question the minute it was asked . 
I don't know , answered Freckles . 
The reply sounded so hopeless , even to his own ears , that he hastened to qualify it by adding You see , it's like this , sir . 
Kindnesses that people are paid to lay off in job lots and that belong equally to several hundred others , ain't going to be soaking into any one fellow so much . 
Go on , said McLean , nodding comprehendingly . 
There's nothing worth the taking of your time to tell , replied Freckles . 
The Home was in Chicago , and I was there all me life until three months ago . 
I'd to go and come like a prisoner , and be working around the Home early and late for me board and clothes . 
I always wanted to learn mighty bad , but I was glad when that was over . 
Then a new superintendent was put in . 
He wasn't for being like any of the others , and he swore he'd weed me out the first thing he did . 
He made a plan to send me down the State to a man he said he knew who needed a boy . 
He wasn't for remembering to tell that man that I was a hand short , and he knocked me down the minute he found I was the boy who had been sent him . 
McLean tugged at his mustache to hide the smile on his lips , but he liked the boy all the better for this confession . 
I hustled clear into this State before I learned that man couldn't have kept me if he'd wanted to . 
When I thought I was good and away from him , I commenced hunting work , but it is with everybody else just as it is with you , sir . 
Big , strong , whole men are the only ones for being wanted . 
I have been studying over this matter , answered McLean . 
Freckles came forward a step . 
He spoke so convincingly that McLean believed , although in his heart he knew that to employ a stranger would be wretched business for a man with the interests he had involved . 
Very well , the Boss found himself answering , I will enter you on my pay rolls . 
We'll have supper , and then I will provide you with clean clothing , wading boots , the wire mending apparatus , and a revolver . 
The first thing in the morning , I will take you the length of the trail myself and explain fully what I want done . 
All I ask of you is to come to me at once at the south camp and tell me as a man if you find this job too hard for you . 
It will not surprise me . 
It is work that few men would perform faithfully . 
What name shall I put down ? Freckles' gaze never left McLean's face , and the Boss saw the swift spasm of pain that swept his lonely , sensitive features . 
I've seen how they enter those poor little abandoned devils often enough to know . 
What they called me is no more my name than it is yours . 
Won't you please be giving me a name , Mr. McLean ? The Boss wheeled abruptly and began stacking his books . 
What he was thinking was probably what any other gentleman would have thought in the circumstances . 
With his eyes still downcast , and in a voice harsh with huskiness , he spoke . 
I will tell you what we will do , my lad , he said . 
My father was my ideal man , and I loved him better than any other I have ever known . 
He went out five years ago , but that he would have been proud to leave you his name I firmly believe . 
If I give to you the name of my nearest kin and the man I loved best will that do ? Freckles' rigid attitude relaxed suddenly . 
His head dropped , and big tears splashed on the soiled calico shirt . 
McLean was not surprised at the silence , for he found that talking came none too easily just then . 
All right , he said . 
I will write it on the roll James Ross McLean . 
Thank you mightily , said Freckles . 
That makes me feel almost as if I belonged , already . 
You do , said McLean . 
Until someone armed with every right comes to claim you , you are mine . 
Now , come and take a bath , have some supper , and go to bed . 
As Freckles followed into the lights and sounds of the camp , his heart and soul were singing for joy . 
CHAPTER II Wherein Freckles Proves His Mettle and Finds Friends Next morning found Freckles in clean , whole clothing , fed , and rested . 
Then McLean outfitted him and gave him careful instruction in the use of his weapon . 
When the gang was started for the south camp , Freckles was left to guard a fortune in the Limberlost . 
That he was under guard himself those first weeks he never knew . 
Each hour was torture to the boy . 
The restricted life of a great city orphanage was the other extreme of the world compared with the Limberlost . 
He was afraid for his life every minute . 
The heavy wading boots rubbed his feet until they bled . 
He was sore and stiff from his long tramp and outdoor exposure . 
The seven miles of trail was agony at every step . 
He practiced at night , under the direction of Duncan , until he grew sure in the use of his revolver . 
He cut a stout hickory cudgel , with a knot on the end as big as his fist this never left his hand . 
What he thought in those first days he himself could not recall clearly afterward . 
His heart stood still every time he saw the beautiful marsh grass begin a sinuous waving AGAINST the play of the wind , as McLean had told him it would . 
He bolted half a mile with the first boom of the bittern , and his hat lifted with every yelp of the sheitpoke . 
Once he saw a lean , shadowy form following him , and fired his revolver . 
Then he was frightened worse than ever for fear it might have been Duncan's collie . 
With every step , he felt that he would miss secure footing and be swallowed in that clinging sea of blackness . 
In dumb agony he plunged forward , clinging to the posts and trees until he had finished restringing and testing the wire . 
He had consumed much time . 
The Limberlost stirred gently , then shook herself , growled , and awoke around him . 
There seemed to be a great owl hooting from every hollow tree , and a little one screeching from every knothole . 
The bellowing of big bullfrogs was not sufficiently deafening to shut out the wailing of whip poor wills that seemed to come from every bush . 
Nighthawks swept past him with their shivering cry , and bats struck his face . 
A prowling wildcat missed its catch and screamed with rage . 
A straying fox bayed incessantly for its mate . 
The hair on the back of Freckles' neck arose as bristles , and his knees wavered beneath him . 
He could not see whether the dreaded snakes were on the trail , or , in the pandemonium , hear the rattle for which McLean had cautioned him to listen . 
He stood motionless in an agony of fear . 
His breath whistled between his teeth . 
The perspiration ran down his face and body in little streams . 
His jaws set stiffly and the sweat dried on his body . 
When he reached the place from which he had started to run , he turned and with measured steps made his way down the line . 
After a time he realized that he was only walking , so he faced that sea of horrors again . 
When he came toward the corduroy , the cudgel fell to test the wire at each step . 
Sounds that curdled his blood seemed to encompass him , and shapes of terror to draw closer and closer . 
The next morning he started on time . 
Day after day , with his heart pounding , he ducked , dodged , ran when he could , and fought when he was brought to bay . 
If he ever had an idea of giving up , no one knew it for he clung to his job without the shadow of wavering . 
His heart seemed to be leaping when his first rattler disputed the trail with him , but he mustered courage to attack it with his club . 
After its head had been crushed , he mastered an Irishman's inborn repugnance for snakes sufficiently to cut off its rattles to show Duncan . 
With this victory , his greatest fear of them was gone . 
He soon learned to laugh at the big , floppy birds that made horrible noises . 
One day , watching behind a tree , he saw a crane solemnly performing a few measures of a belated nuptial song and dance with his mate . 
Realizing that it was intended in tenderness , no matter how it appeared , the lonely , starved heart of the boy sympathized with them . 
Before the first month passed , he was fairly easy about his job by the next he rather liked it . 
Nature can be trusted to work her own miracle in the heart of any man whose daily task keeps him alone among her sights , sounds , and silences . 
He began by instinctively protecting the weak and helpless . 
He scarcely could believe what he saw . 
From the effort to protect the birds and animals , it was only a short step to the possessive feeling , and with that sprang the impulse to caress and provide . 
Outside of half a dozen of the very commonest they were strangers to him . 
The likeness of their actions to humanity was an hourly surprise . 
He began to realize that he would be left alone . 
He made especial efforts toward friendliness with the hope that he could induce some of them to stay . 
It was then that he conceived the idea of carrying food to the birds for he saw that they were leaving for lack of it but he could not stop them . 
Then Freckles began his wizard work . 
He cleared a space of swale , and twice a day he spread a birds' banquet . 
By the middle of December the strong winds of winter had beaten most of the seed from the grass and bushes . 
The snow fell , covering the swamp , and food was very scarce and difficult to find . 
The birds scarcely waited until Freckles' back was turned to attack his provisions . 
In a few weeks they flew toward the clearing to meet him . 
During the bitter weather of January they came halfway to the cabin every morning , and fluttered around him as doves all the way to the feeding ground . 
Then Freckles added to wheat and crumbs , every scrap of refuse food he could find at the cabin . 
Soon he had them coming red , gray , and black then he became filled with a vast impatience that he did not know their names or habits . 
Every week McLean rode to the Limberlost never on the same day or at the same hour . 
Always he found Freckles at his work , faithful and brave , no matter how severe the weather . 
In imitation of McLean , he bought a small pocket account book , in which he carefully set down every dollar he earned and every penny he spent . 
As his expenses were small and the Boss paid him generously , it was astonishing how his little hoard grew . 
That winter held the first hours of real happiness in Freckles' life . 
He was doing a man's work faithfully , through every rigor of rain , snow , and blizzard . 
He was gathering a wonderful strength of body , paying his way , and saving money . 
Mrs. Duncan showed him that individual kindness for which his hungry heart was longing . 
She had a hot drink ready for him when he came from a freezing day on the trail . 
She knit him a heavy mitten for his left hand , and devised a way to sew and pad the right sleeve that protected the maimed arm in bitter weather . 
When Duncan laughed at her for this , she retorted My God , mannie , if Freckles hadna the birds and the beasts he would be always alone . 
It was never meant for a human being to be so solitary . 
He'd get touched in the head if he hadna them to think for and to talk to . 
How much answer do ye think he gets to his talkin' , lass ? laughed Duncan . 
He gets the answer that keeps the eye bright , the heart happy , and the feet walking faithful the rough path he's set them in , answered Mrs. Duncan earnestly . 
Duncan walked away appearing very thoughtful . 
The next morning he gave an ear from the corn he was shelling for his chickens to Freckles , and told him to carry it to his wild chickens in the Limberlost . 
Me chickens ! he said . 
Why didn't I ever think of that before ? Of course they are ! They are just little , brightly colored cocks and hens ! But wild' is no good . 
What would you say to me wild chickens' being a good deal tamer than yours here in your yard ? Hoot , lad ! cried Duncan . 
Make yours light on your head and eat out of your hands and pockets , challenged Freckles . 
Go and tell your fairy tales to the wee people ! They're juist brash on believin' things , said Duncan . 
Ye canna invent any story too big to stop them from callin' for a bigger . 
I dare you to come see ! retorted Freckles . 
Take ye ! said Duncan . 
Freckles sprang in air and howled in glee . 
Oh , Duncan ! You're too , aisy he cried . 
When will you come ? I'll come next Sabbath , said Duncan . 
The very next Sabbath , Duncan , with his wife and children , followed Freckles to the swamp . 
They saw a sight so wonderful it will keep them talking all the remainder of their lives , and make them unfailing friends of all the birds . 
Freckles' chickens were awaiting him at the edge of the clearing . 
They cut the frosty air around his head into curves and circles of crimson , blue , and black . 
They chased each other from Freckles , and swept so closely themselves that they brushed him with their outspread wings . 
At their feeding ground Freckles set down his old pail of scraps and swept the snow from a small level space with a broom improvised of twigs . 
As soon as his back was turned , the birds clustered over the food , snatching scraps to carry to the nearest bushes . 
Then Freckles scattered his store . 
At once the ground resembled the spread mantle of Montezuma , except that this mass of gaily colored feathers was on the backs of living birds . 
Before anyone saw it arrive , a big gray rabbit sat in the midst of the feast , contentedly gnawing a cabbage leaf . 
Weel , I be drawed on ! came Mrs. Duncan's tense whisper . 
Shu shu , cautioned Duncan . 
Lastly Freckles removed his cap . 
He began filling it with handfuls of wheat from his pockets . 
In a swarm the grain eaters arose around him as a flock of tame pigeons . 
Weel , I'm beat , muttered Duncan , forgetting the silence imposed on his wife . 
I'll hae to give in . 
A man wad hae to see that to believe it . 
We mauna let the Boss miss that sight , for it's a chance will no likely come twice in a life . 
Everything is snowed under and thae craturs near starved , but trustin' Freckles that complete they are tamer than our chickens . 
Look hard , bairns ! he whispered . 
Ye winna see the like o' yon again , while God lets ye live . 
Then he waved his watching friends good bye and started down the timber line . 
A week later , Duncan and Freckles arose from breakfast to face the bitterest morning of the winter . 
He wheeled to Mrs. Duncan with a shining face . 
Were you fixing this warm food for me chickens or yours ? he asked . 
It's for yours , Freckles , she said . 
I was afeared this cold weather they wadna lay good without a warm bite now and then . 
Oh , how I wish you were my mother ! he cried . 
Mrs. Duncan attempted an echo of her husband's laugh . 
Lord love the lad ! she exclaimed . 
Then he hurried away to hide the happy , embarrassing tears that were coming straight from his swelling heart . 
Mrs. Duncan , sobbing unrestrainedly , swept into the adjoining room and threw herself into Duncan's arms . 
Oh , the puir lad ! she wailed . 
Oh , the puir mither hungry lad ! He breaks my heart ! Duncan's arms closed convulsively around his wife . 
With a big , brown hand he lovingly stroked her rough , sorrel hair . 
Sarah , you're a guid woman ! he said . 
You're a michty guid woman ! Ye hae a way o' speakin' out at times that's like the inspired prophets of the Lord . 
But ye , Sarah ! Did ye see his face , woman ? Ye sent him off lookin' leke a white light of holiness had passed ower and settled on him . 
Ye sent the lad away too happy for mortal words , Sarah . 
And ye made me that proud o' ye ! I wouldna trade ye an' my share o' the Limberlost with ony king ye could mention . 
He relaxed his clasp , and setting a heavy hand on each shoulder , he looked straight into her eyes . 
Ye're prime , Sarah ! Juist prime ! he said . 
Pretty lookin' things ye are ! she whispered . 
But ye hae juist been kissed . 
And by such a man ! Fine as God ever made at His verra best . 
Ye've been that honored I'm blest if I can bear to souse ye in dish water . 
Still , that kiss winna come off ! Naething can take it from me , for it's mine till I dee . 
All through the winter Freckles' entire energy was given to keeping up his lines and his chickens from freezing or starving . 
Nature always levies her tribute . 
Now she laid a powerful hand on the soul of Freckles , to which the boy's whole being responded , though he had not the least idea what was troubling him . 
Duncan accepted his wife's theory that it was a touch of spring fever , but Freckles knew better . 
He never had been so well . 
Clean , hot , and steady the blood pulsed in his veins . 
He was always hungry , and his most difficult work tired him not at all . 
For long months , without a single intermission , he had tramped those seven miles of trail twice each day , through every conceivable state of weather . 
He had gained flesh and color , and developed a greater strength and endurance than anyone ever could have guessed . 
Nor did the Limberlost contain last year's terrors . 
He had been with her in her hour of desolation , when stripped bare and deserted , she had stood shivering , as if herself afraid . 
He had made excursions into the interior until he was familiar with every path and road that ever had been cut . 
He had sounded the depths of her deepest pools , and had learned why the trees grew so magnificently . 
He had found that places of swamp and swale were few compared with miles of solid timber land , concealed by summer's luxuriant undergrowth . 
The sounds that at first had struck cold fear into his soul he now knew had left on wing and silent foot at the approach of winter . 
All his fears were forgotten . 
He chafed at the birds' ingratitude , but he found speedy consolation in watching and befriending the newcomers . 
The yearly resurrection of the Limberlost is a mighty revival . 
Freckles stood back and watched with awe and envy the gradual reclothing and repopulation of the swamp . 
The knowledge of his complete loneliness and utter insignificance was hourly thrust upon him . 
He brooded and fretted until he was in a fever yet he never guessed the cause . 
He was filled with a vast impatience , a longing that he scarcely could endure . 
It was June by the zodiac , June by the Limberlost , and by every delight of a newly resurrected season it should have been June in the hearts of all men . 
In the beginning of brooding , the spunky little homesteader had clung heroically to the wire when he was almost paralyzed with fright . 
The wires were ringing with a story the birds could not translate , and Freckles was quite as ignorant of the trouble as they . 
A peculiar movement beneath a small walnut tree caught his attention . 
There was an unusually large Luna cocoon , and the moth was bursting the upper end in its struggles to reach light and air . 
There's something in there trying to get out , he muttered . 
Wonder if I could help it ? Guess I best not be trying . 
If I hadn't happened along , there wouldn't have been anyone to do anything , and maybe I'd only be hurting it . 
It's it's Oh , skaggany ! It's just being born ! Freckles gasped with surprise . 
The moth cleared the opening , and with many wabblings and contortions climbed up the tree . 
He stared speechless with amazement as the moth crept around a limb and clung to the under side . 
There was a big pursy body , almost as large as his thumb , and of the very snowiest white that Freckles ever had seen . 
As Freckles gazed , tense with astonishment , he saw that these were expanding , drooping , taking on color , and small , oval markings were beginning to show . 
Freckles' steady gaze never wavered . 
Without realizing it , he was trembling with eagerness and anxiety . 
As he saw what was taking place , It's going to fly , he breathed in hushed wonder . 
The morning sun fell on the moth and dried its velvet down , while the warm air made it fluffy . 
Freckles was whispering to himself for fear of disturbing the moth . 
It began a systematic exercise of raising and lowering its exquisite wings to dry them and to establish circulation . 
The boy realized that soon it would be able to spread them and sail away . 
His long coming soul sent up its first shivering cry . 
It unhesitatingly climbed on , so he stepped to the path , holding it to the light and examining it closely . 
Then he held it in the shade and turned it , gloating over its markings and beautiful coloring . 
When he held the moth to the limb , it climbed on , still waving those magnificent wings . 
My , but I'd like to be staying with you ! he said . 
But if I was to stand here all day you couldn't grow any prettier than you are right now , and I wouldn't grow smart enough to tell what you are . 
I suppose there's someone who knows . 
Of course there is ! Mr. McLean said there were people who knew every leaf , bird , and flower in the Limberlost . 
Seen a bird with black silk wings little , and yellow as any canary . 
That's as far as I'd get . 
With a screech of fear , the goldfinch fled precipitately . 
His mate arose from the nest with a whirr Freckles looked up and saw it . 
O ho ! he cried . 
So THAT'S what you are doing here ! You have a wife . 
The hen darted at him in a frenzy . 
Now , where do you come in ? he demanded , when he saw that she was not similar to the goldfinch . 
You be clearing out of here ! This is none of your fry . 
This is the nest of me little , yellow friend of the wire , and you shan't be touching it . 
Don't blame you for wanting to see , though . 
My , but it's a fine nest and beauties of eggs . 
Will you be keeping away , or will I fire this stick at you ? Freckles dropped to the trail . 
The hen darted to the nest and settled on it with a tender , coddling movement . 
He of the yellow coat flew to the edge to make sure that everything was right . 
It would have been plain to the veriest novice that they were partners in that cradle . 
Well , I'll be switched ! muttered Freckles . 
If that ain't both their nest ! And he's yellow and she's green , or she's yellow and he's green . 
Doesn't that beat you ? Say , that's what's been sticking me all of this week on that grass nest in the thorn tree down the line . 
One day a blue bird is setting , so I think it is hers . 
The next day a brown bird is on , and I chase it off because the nest is blue's . 
Next day the brown bird is on again , and I let her be , because I think it must be hers . 
The tide of Freckles' discontent welled until he almost choked with anger and chagrin . 
He plodded down the trail , scowling blackly and viciously spanging the wire . 
At the finches' nest he left the line and peered into the thorn tree . 
There was no bird brooding . 
The brown bird alighted on the edge and closed one cavity with a wiggling green worm , while not two minutes later the blue filled another with a white . 
The blue and brown were mates . 
It was always a place full of interest , so Freckles loved to linger on the bridge , watching the marsh and water people . 
He also transacted affairs of importance with the wild flowers and sweet marsh grass . 
He enjoyed splashing through the shallow pools on either side of the bridge . 
Then , too , where the creek entered the swamp was a place of unusual beauty . 
The water spread in darksome , mossy , green pools . 
Water plants and lilies grew luxuriantly , throwing up large , rank , green leaves . 
Nowhere else in the Limberlost could be found frog music to equal that of the mouth of the creek . 
The drumming and piping rolled in never ending orchestral effect , while the full chorus rang to its accompaniment throughout the season . 
Freckles slowly followed the path leading from the bridge to the line . 
It was the one spot at which he might relax his vigilance . 
As it touched the ground , Freckles snatched it up with almost a continuous movement facing the sky . 
There was not a tree of any size in a large open space . 
There was no wind to carry it . 
He turned the big quill questioningly , and again his awed eyes swept the sky . 
A feather dropped from Heaven ! he breathed reverently . 
Are the holy angels moulting ? But no if they were , it would be white . 
Maybe all the angels are not for being white . 
What if the angels of God are white and those of the devil are black ? But a black one has no business up there . 
Again Freckles' old man of the sea sat sullen and heavy on his shoulders and weighted him down until his step lagged and his heart ached . 
FIN' DOUT ! FIN' DOUT ! Wha what's that ? stammered Freckles , almost too much bewildered to speak . 
I I know you are only a bullfrog , but , be jabbers , that sounded mightily like speech . 
Wouldn't you please to be saying it over ? The bullfrog cuddled contentedly in the ooze . 
Then suddenly he lifted his voice , and , as an imperative drumbeat , rolled it again FIN' DOUT ! FIN' DOUT ! FIN DOUT ! Freckles had the answer . 
Something seemed to snap in his brain . 
There was a wavering flame before his eyes . 
His head lifted in a new poise , his shoulders squared , while his spine straightened . 
Freckles came into his birthright . 
Before God , I will ! He uttered the oath so impressively that the recording angel never winced as he posted it in the prayer column . 
Freckles set his hat over the top of one of the locust posts used between trees to hold up the wire while he fastened the feather securely in the band . 
Then he started down the line , talking to himself as men who have worked long alone always fall into the habit of doing . 
What a fool I have been ! he muttered . 
Of course that's what I have to do ! There wouldn't likely anybody be doing it for me . 
He said , too , that there were people that knew everything in the swamp . 
Of course they have written books ! The thing for me to be doing is to quit moping and be buying some . 
Never bought a book in me life , or anything else of much account , for that matter . 
Oh , ain't I glad I didn't waste me money ! I'll surely be having enough to get a few . 
Freckles sat on a log , took his pencil and account book , and figured on a back page . 
He had walked the timber line ten months . 
His pay was thirty dollars a month , and his board cost him eight . 
That left twenty two dollars a month , and his clothing had cost him very little . 
At the least he had two hundred dollars in the bank . 
He drew a deep breath and smiled at the sky with satisfaction . 
He put away the account book , that was his most cherished possession , caught up his stick , and started down the line . 
The even tap , tap , and the cheery , gladsome whistle carried far ahead of him the message that Freckles was himself again . 
He fell into a rapid pace , for he had lost time that morning when he rounded the last curve he was almost running . 
There was a chance that the Boss might be there for his weekly report . 
Its strong feet could be seen drawn among its feathers . 
The sun glinted on its sharp , hooked beak . 
Its eyes glowed , caught the light , and seemed able to pierce the ground at his feet . 
Then he coquettishly drew away and ogled her . 
The lover ducked and side stepped a few feet . 
He spread his wings and slowly and softly waved them precisely as if he were fanning his charmer , which was indeed the result he accomplished . 
Then a wave of uncontrollable tenderness moved him so he hobbled to his bombardment once more . 
She yawned and shuffled away indifferently . 
Freckles reached up , pulled the quill from his hat , and looking from it to the birds , nodded in settled conviction . 
So you're me black angels , ye spalpeens ! No wonder you didn't get in ! But I'll back you to come closer it than any other birds ever did . 
You fly higher than I can see . 
Score one for the lady ! I'll be umpiring this , volunteered Freckles . 
With a ravishing swagger , half lifted wings , and deep , guttural hissing , the lover approached again . 
He suddenly lifted his body , but she coolly rocked forward on the limb , glided gracefully beneath him , and slowly sailed into the Limberlost . 
He recovered himself and gazed after her in astonishment . 
Freckles hurried down the trail , shaking with laughter . 
When he neared the path to the clearing and saw the Boss sitting motionless on the mare that was the pride of his heart , the boy broke into a run . 
Oh , Mr. McLean ! he cried . 
I've never had to be giving excuses before . 
The line wasn't down , and there wasn't a sign of trouble it was other things that were making me late . 
McLean , smiling on the boy , immediately noticed the difference in him . 
This flushed , panting , talkative lad was not the same creature who had sought him in despair and bitterness . 
He watched in wonder as Freckles mopped the perspiration from his forehead and began to laugh . 
Then , forgetting all his customary reserve with the Boss , the pent up boyishness in the lad broke forth . 
With an eloquence of which he never dreamed he told his story . 
Freckles decorated his story with keen appreciation and rare touches of Irish wit and drollery that made it most interesting as well as very funny . 
It was a first attempt at descriptive narration . 
They're in the middle of a swamp now said Freckles . 
There's a new kind over at the mouth of the creek that uses its wings like feet and walks on all fours . 
It travels like a thrashing machine . 
There's another , tall as me waist , with a bill a foot long , a neck near two , not the thickness of me wrist and an elegant color . 
He's some blue and gray , touched up with black , white , and brown . 
The voice of him is such that if he'd be going up and standing beside a tree and crying at it a few times he could be sawing it square off . 
I don't know but it would be a good idea to try him on the gang , sir . 
Those must be blue herons , Freckles , he said . 
And it doesn't seem possible , but your description of the big black birds sounds like genuine black vultures . 
They are common enough in the South . 
I've seen them numerous around the lumber camps of Georgia , but I never before heard of any this far north . 
I don't know as I'd be calling them exactly pretty , and they do move like a rocking horse loping , but they are so big and fearless . 
They have a fine color for black birds , and their feet and beaks seem so strong . 
I don't suppose I've a chicken in the swamp that can go as close heaven as those big , black fellows , and then Freckles' voice dragged and he hesitated . 
Then what ? interestedly urged McLean . 
He was loving her so , answered Freckles in a hushed voice . 
I know it looked awful funny , and I laughed and told on him , but if I'd taken time to think I don't believe I'd have done it . 
You see , I've seen such a little bit of loving in me life . 
You easily can be understanding that at the Home it was every day the old story of neglect and desertion . 
If anybody loved me like that , Mr. McLean , I wouldn't be spending any time on how they looked or moved . 
All I'd be thinking of would be how they felt toward me . 
If they will stay , I'll be caring as much for them as any chickens I have . 
He's a gentleman , isn't he ? And the only real chicken you have . 
Of course he'll remain ! The Limberlost will be paradise for his family . 
Are you tired of your job ? I love it , answered Freckles . 
It will almost break me heart when the gang comes and begins tearing up the swamp and scaring away me chickens . 
Then what is the trouble ? insisted McLean . 
I think , sir , it's been books , answered Freckles . 
You see , I didn't realize it meself until the bullfrog told me this morning . 
I hadn't ever even heard about a place like this . 
Anyway , I wasn't understanding how it would be , if I had . 
I've seen the parks but good Lord , they ain't even beginning to be in it with the Limberlost ! It's all new and strange to me . 
I don't know a thing about any of it . 
He had not guessed until that minute what it would have meant to him to have Freckles give up . 
You know enough to study out what you want yourself , if you have the books don't you ? I am pretty sure I do , said Freckles . 
I learned all I'd the chance at in the Home , and me schooling was good as far as it went . 
Wouldn't let you go past fourteen , you know . 
I always did me sums perfect , and loved me history books . 
I had them almost by heart . 
I never could get me grammar to suit them . 
I could knock them all out singing . 
I was always leader in the Home , and once one of the superintendents gave me carfare and let me go into the city and sing in a boys' choir . 
It's been fretting me more than I knew to be shut up here among all these wonders and not knowing a thing . 
I wanted to ask you what some books would cost me , and if you'd be having the goodness to get me the right ones . 
I think I have enough money Freckles offered his account book and the Boss studied it gravely . 
You needn't touch your account , Freckles , he said . 
Ten dollars from this month's pay will provide you everything you need to start on . 
I will write a friend in Grand Rapids today to select you the very best and send them at once . 
Never owned a book in me life ! he said . 
Even me schoolbooks were never mine . 
Then , seeing Freckles' lengthening face , he added I'll have Duncan bring you a ten bushel store box the next time he goes to town . 
He can haul it to the west entrance and set it up wherever you want it . 
You can put in your spare time filling it with the specimens you find until the books come , and then you can study out what you have . 
I suspect you could collect specimens that I could send to naturalists in the city and sell for you things like that winged creature , this morning . 
I don't know much in that line , but it must have been a moth , and it might have been rare . 
I've seen them by the thousand in museums , and in all nature I don't remember rarer coloring than their wings . 
I'll order you a butterfly net and box and show you how scientists pin specimens . 
Possibly you can make a fine collection of these swamp beauties . 
It will be all right for you to take a pair of different moths and butterflies , but I don't want to hear of your killing any birds . 
They are protected by heavy fines . 
McLean rode away leaving Freckles staring aghast . 
Then he saw the point and smiled . 
Standing on the trail , he twirled the feather and thought over the morning . 
Well , if life ain't getting to be worth living ! he said wonderingly . 
Biggest streak of luck I ever had ! Bout time something was coming my way , but I wouldn't ever thought anybody could strike such magnificent prospects through only a falling feather . 
It seems most a pity to nail into that tree , said Duncan . 
I haena the time to examine into the grain of it , but it looks as if it might be a rare ane . 
Anyhow , the nailin' winna hurt it deep , and havin' the case by it will make it safer if it is a guid ane . 
Isn't it an oak ? asked Freckles . 
It looks like it might be ane of thae fine grained white anes that mak' such grand furniture . 
When the body of the case was secure , Duncan made a door from the lid and fastened it with hinges . 
He drove a staple , screwed on a latch , and gave Freckles a small padlock so that he might fasten in his treasures safely . 
He made a shelf at the top for his books , and last of all covered the case with oil cloth . 
It was the first time in Freckles' life that anyone ever had done that much for his pleasure , and it warmed his heart with pure joy . 
If the interior of the box already had been covered with the rarest treasures of the Limberlost he could have been no happier . 
When the big teamster stood back to look at his work he laughingly quoted , Neat , but no' gaudy , as McLean says . 
All we're , needing now is a coat of paint to make a cupboard that would turn Sarah green with envy . 
Ye'll find that safe an' dry , lad , an' that's all that's needed . 
Ye needna feel ye are obliged to me , lad . 
Ye mauna think I could take a half day off in the best hauling season and go to town for boxes to rig up , and spend of my little for fixtures . 
I knew Mr. McLean sent you , said Freckles , his eyes wide and bright with happiness . 
It's so good of him . 
Ye're being uncommon faithful , lad , and honest as old Father Time . 
McLean is trusting ye as he would his own flesh and blood . 
Oh , Duncan ! cried the happy boy . 
Are you sure ? Why I know , answered Duncan . 
I wadna venture to say so else . 
In those first days he cautioned me na to tell ye , but now he wadna care . 
D'ye ken , Freckles , that some of the single trees ye are guarding are worth a thousand dollars ? Freckles caught his breath and stood speechless . 
Ye see , said Duncan , that's why they maun be watched so closely . 
They saw it out in sheets no muckle thicker than writin' paper . 
Then they make up the funiture out of cheaper wood and cover it with the maple veneer , they call it . 
When it's all done and polished ye never saw onythin' grander . 
Gang into a retail shop the next time ye are in town and see some . 
By sawin' it thin that way they get finish for thousands of dollars' worth of furniture from a single tree . 
If ye dinna watch faithful , and Black Jack gets out a few he has marked , it means the loss of more money than ye ever dreamed of , lad . 
A wave of scarlet flooded Freckles' face and he blazed hotly at the insult . 
Some of the men just snapped him op that they'd find some . 
So you see bow the Boss is trustin' ye , lad . 
I am gladder than I can ever expriss , said Freckles . 
And now will I be walking double time to keep some of them from cutting a tree to get all that money ! Mither o' Moses ! howled Duncan . 
Ye can trust the Scotch to bungle things a'thegither . 
McLean was only meanin' to show ye all confidence and honor . 
He's gone and set a high price for some dirty whelp to ruin ye . 
I was just tryin' to show ye how he felt toward ye , and I've gone an' give ye that worry to bear . 
Damn the Scotch ! They're so slow an' so dumb ! Exciptin' prisint company ? sweetly inquired Freckles . 
Headin' the list ! He'd nae business to set a price on ye , lad , for that's about the amount of it , an' I'd nae right to tell ye . 
We've both done ye ill , an' both meanin' the verra best . 
Juist what I'm always sayin' to Sarah . 
I am mighty proud of what you have been telling me , Duncan , said Freckles . 
I need the warning , sure . 
For with the books coming I might be timpted to neglect me work when double watching is needed . 
Thank you more than I can say for putting me on to it . 
What you've told me may be the saving of me . 
I won't stop for dinner now . 
I'll be getting along the east line , and when I come around about three , maybe Mother Duncan will let me have a glass of milk and a bite of something . 
Ye see now ! cried Duncan in disgust . 
Ye'll start on that seven mile tramp with na bite to stay your stomach . 
What was it I told ye ? You told me that the Scotch had the hardest heads and the softest hearts of any people that's living , answered Freckles . 
Duncan grunted in gratified disapproval . 
Freckles picked up his club and started down the line , whistling cheerily , for he had an unusually long repertoire upon which to draw . 
I don't think anything could shake my faith in the lad , answered McLean . 
He kept one eye religiously on the line . 
The other he divided between the path , his friends of the wire , and a search of the sky for his latest arrivals . 
Every day since their coming he had seen them , either hanging as small , black clouds above the swamp or bobbing over logs and trees with their queer , tilting walk . 
Whenever he could spare time , he entered the swamp and tried to make friends with them , for they were the tamest of all his unnumbered subjects . 
They ducked , dodged , and ambled around him , over logs and bushes , and not even a near approach would drive them to flight . 
For two weeks he had found them circling over the Limberlost regularly , but one morning the female was missing and only the big black chicken hung sentinel above the swamp . 
His mate did not reappear in the following days , and Freckles grew very anxious . 
He spoke of it to Mrs. Duncan , and she quieted his fears by raising a delightful hope in their stead . 
Why , Freckles , if it's the hen bird ye are missing , it's ten to one she's safe , she said . 
She's laid , and is setting , ye silly ! Watch him and mark whaur he lichts . 
Then follow and find the nest . 
Some Sabbath we'll all gang see it . 
Accepting this theory , Freckles began searching for the nest . 
Because these chickens were large , as the hawks , he looked among the treetops until he almost sprained the back of his neck . 
He had half the crow and hawk nests in the swamp located . 
He searched for this nest instead of collecting subjects for his case . 
He found the pair the middle of one forenoon on the elm where he had watched their love making . 
The big black chicken was feeding his mate so it was proved that they were a pair , they were both alive , and undoubtedly she was brooding . 
She had loosened the lid , and then she laughingly sat on it . 
Ye canna have a peep in here until ye have washed and eaten supper , she said . 
It's all ready on the table . 
Ance ye begin on this , ye'll no be willin' to tak' your nose o' it till bedtime , and I willna get my work done the nicht . 
It was difficult work , but Freckles smiled bravely . 
Lifting the lid , they removed the packing and found in that box books on birds , trees , flowers , moths , and butterflies . 
There was also one containing Freckles' bullfrog , true to life . 
That sobered them , they carried the books indoors . 
Mrs. Duncan had a top shelf in her closet cleared for them , far above the reach of meddling little fingers . 
When Freckles started for the trail next morning , the shining new specimen box flashed on his back . 
The black chicken , a mere speck in the blue , caught the gleam of it . 
The folded net hung beside the boy's hatchet , and the bird book was in the box . 
He had made a large room with the door of the case set even with one side of it . 
On three sides , fine big bushes of wild rose climbed to the lower branches of the trees . 
Part of his walls were mallow , part alder , thorn , willow , and dogwood . 
Below there filled in a solid mass of pale pink sheep laurel , and yellow St . 
John's wort , while the amber threads of the dodder interlaced everywhere . 
At one side the swamp came close , here cattails grew in profusion . 
Opposite , he cleared a space and made a flower bed . 
He filled one end with every delicate , lacy vine and fern he could transplant successfully . 
The body of the bed was a riot of color . 
Here he set growing dainty blue eyed Marys and blue eyed grass side by side . 
He planted harebells violets , blue , white , and yellow wild geranium , cardinal flower , columbine , pink snake's mouth , buttercups , painted trilliums , and orchis . 
Every day saw the addition of new specimens . 
The place would have driven a botanist wild with envy . 
On the line side he left the bushes thick for concealment , entering by a narrow path he and Duncan had cleared in setting up the case . 
He called this the front door , though he used every precaution to hide it . 
He built rustic seats between several of the trees , leveled the floor , and thickly carpeted it with rank , heavy , woolly dog moss . 
Around the case he planted wild clematis , bittersweet , and wild grapevines , and trained them over it until it was almost covered . 
Every day he planted new flowers , cut back rough bushes , and coaxed out graceful ones . 
His pride in his room was very great , but he had no idea how surprisingly beautiful it would appear to anyone who had not witnessed its growth and construction . 
This morning Freckles walked straight to his case , unlocked it , and set his apparatus and dinner inside . 
Then he took out the bird book , settled comfortably on a bench , and with a deep sigh of satisfaction turned to the section headed . 
V. Past veery and vireo he went , down the line until his finger , trembling with eagerness , stopped at vulture . 
Great black California vulture , he read . 
Humph ! This side the Rockies will do for us . 
Well , we ain't hunting common turkeys . 
McLean said chickens , and what he says goes . 
Black vulture of the South . 
Here we are arrived at once . 
Freckles' finger followed the line , and he read scraps aloud . 
Nearest equivalent to C a t h a r t e s A t r a t a . 
How the divil am I ever to learn them corkin' big words by mesel' ? the Pharaoh's Chickens of European species . 
And in hollow logs or stumps . 
Oh , hagginy ! Wasn't I barking up the wrong tree , though ? Ought to been looking close the ground all this time . 
Now it's all to do over , and I suspect the sooner I start the sooner I'll be likely to find them . 
Freckles put away his book , dampened the smudge fire , without which the mosquitoes made the swamp almost unbearable , took his cudgel and lunch , and went to the line . 
He sat on a log , ate at dinner time and drank his last drop of water . 
The heat of June was growing intense . 
Even on the west of the swamp , where one had full benefit of the breeze from the upland , it was beginning to be unpleasant in the middle of the day . 
He brushed the crumbs from his knees and sat resting awhile and watching the sky to see if his big chicken were hanging up there . 
But he came to the earth abruptly , for there were steps coming down the trail that were neither McLean's nor Duncan's and there never had been others . 
He ran a quick hand over his belt to feel if his revolver and hatchet were there , caught up his cudgel and laid it across his knees then sat quietly , waiting . 
Through the bushes he caught a glimpse of the oncoming figure . 
His heart flooded with joy , for it was a man from the gang . 
Wessner had been his bunk mate the night he came down the corduroy . 
He knew him as well as any of McLean's men . 
This was no timber thief . 
No doubt the Boss had sent him with a message . 
Freckles sprang up and called cheerily , a warm welcome on his face . 
Well , it's good telling if you're glad to see me , said Wessner , with something very like a breath of relief . 
We been hearing down at the camp you were so mighty touchy you didn't allow a man within a rod of the line . 
No more do I , answered Freckles , if he's a stranger , but you're from McLean , ain't you ? Oh , damn McLean ! said Wessner . 
Freckles gripped the cudgel until his knuckles slowly turned purple . 
And are you railly saying so ? he inquired with elaborate politeness . 
Yes , I am , said Wessner . 
So would every man of the gang if they wasn't too big cowards to say anything , unless maybe that other slobbering old Scotchman , Duncan . 
How would you like to make a good big pile of money , without even lifting your hand ? he asked . 
Have you been up to Chicago and cornered wheat , and are you offering me a friendly tip on the invistment of me fortune ? Wessner came close . 
You needn't be afraid of speaking up , he said . 
There isn't a soul in the Limberlost save the birds and the beasts , unless some of your sort's come along and's crowding the privileges of the legal tinints . 
None of my friends along , said Wessner . 
Nobody knew I came but Black , I I mean a friend of mine . 
If you want to hear sense and act with reason , he can see you later , but it ain't necessary . 
We can make all the plans needed . 
The trick's so dead small and easy . 
Must be if you have the engineering of it , said Freckles . 
But he heard , with a sigh of relief , that they were alone . 
Or am I just to find it laying in me path beside the line ? That's it , Freckles , blustered the Dutchman , you're just to find it . 
You needn't do a thing . 
You needn't know a thing . 
You name a morning when you will walk up the west side of the swamp and then turn round and walk back down the same side again and the money is yours . 
Couldn't anything be easier than that , could it ? Depinds entirely on the man , said Freckles . 
The lilt of a lark hanging above the swale beside them was not sweeter than the sweetness of his voice . 
You'll have to be making the thing very clear to me understanding . 
It's so dead easy , repeated Wessner , it makes me tired of the simpleness of it . 
You see there's a few trees in the swamp that's real gold mines . 
Two are back in , but one's square on the line . 
If you will stay on this side of the trail just one day we can have it cut , loaded , and ready to drive out at night . 
Next morning you can find it , report , and be the busiest man in the search for us . 
We know where to fix it all safe and easy . 
Then McLean has a bet up with a couple of the gang that there can't be a raw stump found in the Limberlost . 
There's plenty of witnesses to swear to it , and I know three that will . 
There's a cool thousand , and this tree is worth all of that , raw . 
Say , it's a gold mine , I tell you , and just five hundred of it is yours . 
There's no danger on earth to you , for you've got McLean that bamboozled you could sell out the whole swamp and he'd never mistrust you . 
What do you say ? Freckles' soul was satisfied . 
Is that all ? he asked . 
No , it ain't , said Wessner . 
If you really want to brace up and be a man and go into the thing for keeps , you can make five times that in a week . 
My friend knows a dozen others we could get out in a few days , and all you'd have to do would be to keep out of sight . 
Then you could take your money and skip some night , and begin life like a gentleman somewhere else . 
What do you think about it ? Freckles purred like a kitten . 
And you're making the pay awful high . 
Me to be getting five hundred for such a simple little thing as that . 
You're trating me most royal indade ! It's away beyond all I'd be expecting . 
Sivinteen cints would be a big price for that job . 
It must be looked into thorough . 
Just you wait here until I do a minute's turn in the swamp , and then I'll be eschorting you out of the clearing and giving you the answer . 
Freckles lifted the overhanging bushes and hurried to the case . 
He unslung the specimen box and laid it inside with his hatchet and revolver . 
He slipped the key in his pocket and went back to Wessner . 
Now for the answer , he said . 
Stand up ! There was iron in his voice , and he was commanding as an outraged general . 
Anything , you want to be taking off ? he questioned . 
Wessner looked the astonishment he felt . 
Why , no , Freckles , he said . 
Have the goodness to be calling me Mister McLean , snapped Freckles . 
I'm after resarvin' me pet name for the use of me friends ! You may stand with your back to the light or be taking any advantage you want . 
Why , what do you mean ? spluttered Wessner . 
McLean rode at top speed . 
When he heard voices he entered the swamp and silently crept close just in time to hear Wessner whine But I can't fight you , Freckles . 
I hain't done nothing to you . 
I'm away bigger than you , and you've only one hand . 
Don't you be wasting of me good time in the numbering of me hands , cried Freckles . 
The stringth of me cause will make up for the weakness of me mimbers , and the size of a cowardly thief doesn't count . 
Well , you ain't resembling me none , for I'm itching like death to git me fingers in the face of you . 
Before Wessner could straighten himself , Freckles was on him , fighting like the wildest fury that ever left the beautiful island . 
The Dutchman dealt thundering blows that sometimes landed and sent Freckles reeling , and sometimes missed , while he went plunging into the swale with the impetus of them . 
Freckles could not strike with half Wessner's force , but he could land three blows to the Dutchman's one . 
He skipped , ducked , and dodged . 
For the first five minutes he endured fearful punishment . 
Then Wessner's breath commenced to whistle between his teeth , when Freckles only had begun fighting . 
He sprang back with shrill laughter . 
Begolly ! and will your honor be whistling the hornpipe for me to be dancing of ? he cried . 
SPANG ! went his fist into Wessner's face , and he was past him into the swale . 
And would you be pleased to tune up a little livelier ? he gasped , and clipped his ear as he sprang back . 
Wessner lunged at him in blind fury . 
Freckles , seeing an opening , forgot the laws of a gentleman's game and drove the toe of his heavy wading boot in Wessner's middle until he doubled and fell heavily . 
In a flash Freckles was on him . 
For a time McLean could not see what was happening . 
Go ! Go to him now ! he commanded himself , but so intense was his desire to see the boy win alone that he did not stir . 
At last Freckles sprang up and backed away . 
Time ! he yelled as a fury . 
Be getting up , Mr. Wessner , and don't be afraid of hurting me . 
I'll let you throw in an extra hand and lick you to me complate satisfaction all the same . 
I I guess I got enough , he mumbled . 
Oh , you do ? roared Freckles . 
Well this ain't your say . 
You come on to me ground , lying about me Boss and intimatin' I'd stale from his very pockets . 
Be looking out there ! He sprang against Wessner and sent him rolling . 
He attacked the unresisting figure and fought him until he lay limp and quiet and Freckles had no strength left to lift an arm . 
Then he arose and stepped back , gasping for breath . 
With his first lungful of air he shouted Time ! But the figure of Wessner lay motionless . 
Freckles watched him with regardful eye and saw at last that he was completely exhausted . 
He bent over him , and catching him by the back of the neck , jerked him to his knees . 
Wessner lifted the face of a whipped cur , and fearing further punishment , burst into shivering sobs , while the tears washed tiny rivulets through the blood and muck . 
Freckles stepped back , glaring at Wessner , but suddenly the scowl of anger and the ugly disfiguring red faded from the boy's face . 
He dabbed at a cut on his temple from which issued a tiny crimson stream , and jauntily shook back his hair . 
His face took on the innocent look of a cherub , and his voice rivaled that of a brooding dove , but into his eyes crept a look of diabolical mischief . 
Bending over , Freckles reached an arm around Wessner's waist and helped him to his feet . 
Careful , now he cautioned , be careful , Freddy there's danger of you hurting me . 
Drawing a handkerchief from a back pocket , Freckles tenderly wiped Wessner's eyes and nose . 
Come , Freddy , me child , he admonished Wessner , it's time little boys were going home . 
I've me work to do , and can't be entertaining you any more today . 
Come back tomorrow , if you ain't through yet , and we'll repate the perfarmance . 
Don't be staring at me so wild like ! I would eat you , but I can't afford it . 
Freckles stepped back as Wessner , tottering and reeling , as a thoroughly drunken man , came toward the path , appearing indeed as if wildcats had attacked him . 
Do you think it was the Irish hollered help ? Not much ! It was the Dutch . 
No disparagement intinded to the sinse of the mare ! he added hastily . 
Wessner belched a fearful oath , while Freckles laughed merrily . 
That's a sample of the thanks a generous act's always for getting , he continued . 
And now will you be looking at the manners of him ? questioned Freckles plaintively . 
When the boy turned , there was deathly illness on his face , while his legs wavered beneath his weight . 
He staggered to the case , and opening it he took out a piece of cloth . 
He dipped it into the water , and sitting on a bench , he wiped the blood and grime from his face , while his breath sucked between his clenched teeth . 
He was shivering with pain and excitement in spite of himself . 
Here Wessner had succeeded in setting his teeth . 
When Freckles saw what it was he forgave himself the kick in the pit of Wessner's stomach , and cursed fervently and deep . 
Freckles , Freckles , said McLean's voice . 
Freckles snatched down his sleeve and arose to his feet . 
Excuse me , sir , he said . 
You'll surely be belavin' I thought meself alone . 
Taking the hurt arm , he turned back the sleeve and bathed and bound the wounds . 
He examined Freckles' head and body and convinced himself that there was no permanent injury , although the cruelty of the punishment the boy had borne set the Boss shuddering . 
Then he closed the case , shoved it into his pocket , and sat beside Freckles . 
When the pain lessened and breath reieved Freckles' pounding heart , he watched the Boss covertly . 
How had McLean gotten there and how long had he been there ? Freckles did not dare ask . 
At last he arose , and going to the case , took out his revolver and the wire mending apparatus and locked the door . 
Then he turned to McLean . 
Have you any orders , sir ? he asked . 
Yes , said McLean , I have , and you are to follow them to the letter . 
Turn over that apparatus to me and go straight home . 
Soak yourself in the hottest bath your skin will bear and go to bed at once . 
Mr. McLean , said Freckles , it's sorry I am to be telling you , but the afternoon's walking of the line ain't done . 
It's either settled , or it's just begun , but between us , I'm that late I haven't started for the afternoon yet . 
I must be going at once , for there's a tree I must find before the day's over . 
You plucky little idiot , growled McLean . 
You can't walk the line ! I doubt if you can reach Duncan's . 
Don't you know when you are done up ? You go to bed I'll finish your work . 
I was just a little done up for the prisint , a minute ago . 
Riding boots are far too low . 
The day's hot and the walk a good seven miles , sir . 
Niver ! As he reached for the outfit he pitched forward and his eyes closed . 
McLean stretched him on the moss and applied restoratives . 
When Freckles returned to consciousness , McLean ran to the cabin to tell Mrs. Duncan to have a hot bath ready , and to bring Nellie . 
That worthy woman promptly filled the wash boiler , starting a roaring fire under it . 
She pushed the horse trough from its base and rolled it to the kitchen . 
By the time McLean came again , leading Nelie and holding Freckles on her back , Mrs. Duncan was ready for business . 
She and the Boss laid Freckles in the trough and poured on hot water until he squirmed . 
They soaked and massaged him . 
Then they drew off the hot water and closed his pores with cold . 
Lastly they stretched him on the floor and chafed , rubbed , and kneaded him until he cried out for mercy . 
As they rolled him into bed , his eyes dropped shut , but a little later they flared open . 
Mr. McLean , he cried , the tree ! Oh , do be looking after the tree ! McLean bent over him . 
Which tree , Freckles ? I don't know exact sir but it's on the east line , and the wire is fastened to it . 
He bragged that you nailed it yourself , sir . 
You'll know it by the bark having been laid open to the grain somewhere low down . 
Five hundred dollars he offered me to be selling you out sir ! Freckles' head rolled over and his eyes dropped shut . 
McLean towered above the lad . 
His bright hair waved on the pillow . 
His face was swollen , and purple with bruises . 
McLean's mind traveled to the night , almost a year before , when he had engaged Freckles , a stranger . 
The Boss bent , covering the hurt arm with one hand and laying the other with a caress on the boy's forehead . 
Then he went out and told Mrs. Duncan to keep close watch on Freckles , also to send Duncan to him at the swamp the minute he came home . 
How had the boy conceived it ? What a picture he had wrought in living colors ! He had the heart of a painter . 
He had the soul of a poet . 
The Boss stepped carefully over the velvet carpet to touch the walls of crisp verdure with gentle fingers . 
He stood long beside the flower bed , and gazed at the banked wall of bright bloom as if he doubted its reality . 
Where had Freckles ever found , and how had he transplanted such ferns ? As McLean turned from them he stopped suddenly . 
He had reached the door of the cathedral . 
That which Freckles had attempted would have been patent to anyone . 
Here was evidence of a heart aching for beauty , art , companionship , worship . 
It was writ large all over the floor , walls , and furnishing of that little Limberlost clearing . 
When Duncan came , McLean told him the story of the fight , and they laughed until they cried . 
Then they started around the line in search of the tree . 
Said Duncan Now the boy is in for sore trouble ! I hope not , answered McLean . 
You never in all your life saw a cur whipped so completely . 
He won't come back for the repetition of the chorus . 
We surely can find the tree . 
If we can't , Freckles can . 
I will bring enough of the gang to take it out at once . 
That will insure peace for a time , at least , and I am hoping that in a month more the whole gang may be moved here . 
It soon will be fall , and then , if he will go , I intend to send Freckles to my mother to be educated . 
With his quickness of mind and body and a few years' good help he can do anything . 
Why , Duncan , I'd give a hundred dollar bill if you could have been here and seen for yourself . 
Yes , and I'd a' done murder , muttered the big teamster . 
I hope , sir , ye will make good your plans for Freckles , though I'd as soon see ony born child o' my ain taken from our home . 
We love the lad , me and Sarah . 
Locating the tree was easy , because it was so well identified . 
When the rumble of the big lumber wagons passing the cabin on the way to the swamp wakened Freckles next morning , he sprang up and was soon following them . 
He was so sore and stiff that every movement was torture at first , but he grew easier , and shortly did not suffer so much . 
McLean scolded him for coming , yet in his heart triumphed over every new evidence of fineness in the boy . 
The tree was a giant maple , and so precious that they almost dug it out by the roots . 
When it was down , cut in lengths , and loaded , there was yet an empty wagon . 
The Portland company cut this for elm butts last year , and it's six feet diameter and hollow for forty feet . 
He told Freckles to ride on a section of the maple with him , but now the boy asked to enter the swamp with Duncan . 
I don't see why you want to go , said McLean . 
I have no business to let you out today at all . 
It's me chickens , whispered Freckles in distress . 
You see , I was just after finding yesterday , from me new book , how they do be nesting in hollow trees , and there ain't any too many in the swamp . 
There's just a chance that they might be in that one . 
Go ahead , said McLean . 
If they happen to be there , why tell Duncan he must give up the tree until they have finished with it . 
Then he climbed on a wagon and was driven away . 
Freckles hurried into the swamp . 
He was a little behind , yet he could see the men . 
Before he overtook them , they had turned from the west road and had entered the swamp toward the east . 
They stopped at the trunk of a monstrous prostrate log . 
As they waited his decision , there came from the mouth of it on wings a large black bird that swept over their heads . 
It's me chickens ! Oh , it's me chickens ! he shouted . 
Oh , Duncan , come quick ! You've found the nest of me precious chickens ! Duncan hurried to the mouth of the log , but Freckles was before him . 
He crashed through poison vines and underbrush regardless of any danger , and climbed on the stump . 
When Duncan came he was shouting like a wild man . 
It's hatched ! he yelled . 
Oh , me big chicken has hatched out me little chicken , and there's another egg . 
Freckles crept into the log and tenderly carried the hissing , blinking little bird to the light in a leaf lined hat . 
The men found it sufficiently wonderful to satisfy even Freckles , who had forgotten he was ever sore or stiff , and coddled over it with every blarneying term of endearment he knew . 
Deal's off , boys ! he said cheerfully . 
This log mauna be touched until Freckles' chaukies have finished with it . 
We might as weel gang . 
Better put it back , Freckles . 
It's just out , and it may chill . 
Ye will probably hae twa the morn . 
Freckles crept into the log and carefully deposited the baby beside the egg . 
When he came back , he said I made a big mistake not to be bringing the egg out with the baby , but I was fearing to touch it . 
It's shaped like a hen's egg , and it's big as a turkey's , and the beautifulest blue just splattered with big brown splotches , like me book said , precise . 
Bet you never saw such a sight as it made on the yellow of the rotten wood beside that funny leathery faced little white baby . 
Tell you what , Freckles , said one of the teamsters . 
He helps her all he can to take them , and then she gives him a picture . 
Jim's so proud of what he has he keeps them in the Bible . 
He shows them to everybody that comes , and brags about how he helped . 
If you're smart , you'll send for her and she'll come and make a picture just like life . 
If you help her , she will give you one . 
It would be uncommon pretty to keep , after your birds are gone . 
I dunno what they are . 
I never see their like before . 
They must be something rare . 
Any you fellows ever see a bird like that hereabouts ? No one ever had . 
Well , said the teamster , failing to get this log lets me off till noon , and I'm going to town . 
I go right past her place . 
I've a big notion to stop and tell her . 
Jim says her work is a credit to the State she lives in , and any man is a measly creature who isn't willing to help her all he can . 
So I'll just stop and tell her , and by gummy ! maybe she will give me a picture of the little white sucker for my trouble . 
Will she be rough with it ? he asked . 
Government land ! No ! said the teamster . 
She's dead down on anybody that shoots a bird or tears up a nest . 
Why , she's half killing herself in all kinds of places and weather to teach people to love and protect the birds . 
Will you he sure to tell her to come ? asked Freckles . 
Duncan slept at home that night . 
He heard Freckles slipping out early the next morning , but he was too sleepy to wonder why , until he came to do his morning chores . 
Bless his fool little hot heart ! said Duncan . 
And him so sore it is tearing him to move for anything . 
Nae wonder he has us all loving him ! Freckles was moving briskly , and his heart was so happy that he forgot all about the bruises . 
He hurried around the trail , and on his way down the east side he went to see the chickens . 
The mother bird was on the nest . 
He was afraid the other egg might be hatching , so he did not venture to disturb her . 
He made the round and reached his study early . 
He ate his lunch , but did not need to start on the second trip until the middle of the afternoon . 
He would have long hours to work on his flower bed , improve his study , and learn about his chickens . 
Lovingly he set his room in order and watered the flowers and carpet . 
I'm mighty glad there's nothing calling me inside ! he said . 
There's no bit of air stirring , and it will just be steaming . 
Oh , but it's luck Duncan found the nest before it got so unbearing hot ! I might have missed it altogether . 
Noon came Freckles ate his dinner and settled for an hour or two on a bench with a book . 
Saints , nymphs , and fairies had floated down his cathedral aisle for him many times , with forms and voices of exquisite beauty . 
Parting the wild roses at the entrance was beauty of which Freckles never had dreamed . 
Was it real or would it vanish as the other dreams ? He dropped his book , and rising to his feet , went a step closer , gazing intently . 
This was real flesh and blood . 
A sapling beside her was not straighter or rounder than her slender form . 
Her soft , waving hair clung around her face from the heat , and curled over her shoulders . 
It was all of one piece with the gold of the sun that filtered between the branches . 
He really felt that if she looked down she would see . 
Incredulous , he quavered An' an' was you looking for me ? I hoped I might find you , said the Angel . 
You see , I didn't do as I was told , and I'm lost . 
The Bird Woman said I should wait in the carriage until she came back . 
It's a perfect Turkish bath in there , and I'm all lumpy with mosquito bites . 
Just when I thought that I couldn't bear it another minute , along came the biggest Papilio Ajax you ever saw . 
I knew how pleased she'd be , so I ran after it . 
It flew so slow and so low that I thought a dozen times I had it . 
Then all at once it went from sight above the trees , and I couldn't find my way back to save me . 
I think I've walked more than an hour . 
I have been mired to my knees . 
A thorn raked my arm until it is bleeding , and I'm so tired and warm . 
She parted the bushes farther . 
Freckles saw that her blue cotton frock clung to her , limp with perspiration . 
It was torn across the breast . 
One sleeve hung open from shoulder to elbow . 
A thorn had torn her arm until it was covered with blood , and the gnats and mosquitoes were clustering around it . 
Her feet were in lace hose and low shoes . 
In the Limberlost in low shoes ! He caught an armful of moss from his carpet and buried it in the ooze in front of her for a footing . 
Come out here so I can see where you are stepping . 
Quick , for the life of you ! he ordered . 
She smiled on him indulgently . 
Did anybody let you come here and not be telling you of the snakes ? urged Freckles . 
We met Mr. McLean on the corduroy , and he did say something about snakes , I believe . 
The Bird Woman put on leather leggings , and a nice , parboiled time she must be having ! Worst dose I ever endured , and I'd nothing to do but swelter . 
Will you be coming out of there ? groaned Freckles . 
She laughed as if it were a fine joke . 
What a perfectly delightful little brogue you speak , she said . 
My father is Irish , and half should be enough to entitle me to that much . 
Maybe if I'd be telling you , she imitated , rounding and accenting each word carefully . 
Freckles was beginning to feel a wildness in his head . 
He had derided Wessner at that same hour yesterday . 
Now his own eyes were filling with tears . 
If you were understanding the danger ! he continued desperately . 
Oh , I don't think there is much ! She tilted on the morass . 
If you killed one snake here , it's probably all there is near and anyway , the Bird Woman says a rattlesnake is a gentleman and always gives warning before he strikes . 
I don't hear any rattling . 
Do you ? Would you be knowing it if you did ? asked Freckles , almost impatiently . 
How the laugh of the young thing rippled ! Would I be knowing it ? she mocked . 
You should see the swamps of Michigan where they dump rattlers from the marl dredgers three and four at a time ! Freckles stood astounded . 
She was not in the least afraid . 
She was depending on a rattlesnake to live up to his share of the contract and rattle in time for her to move . 
The one characteristic an Irishman admires in a woman , above all others , is courage . 
Oh , how lovely and cool ! she cried . 
Did you arrange this ? she asked . 
Yis , said Freckles simply . 
Someone must come with a big canvas and copy each side of it , she said . 
Did you come on the west road ? asked Freckles . 
I think so , she said . 
The man who told the Bird Woman said that was the only place the wires were down . 
We drove away in , and it was dreadful over stumps and logs , and we mired to the hubs . 
I suppose you know , though . 
I should have stayed in the carriage , but I was so tired . 
I never dreamed of getting lost . 
I suspect I will be scolded finely . 
I go with the Bird Woman half the time during the summer vacations . 
My father says I learn a lot more than I do at school , and get it straight . 
I never came within a smell of being lost before . 
I thought , at first , it was going to be horrid but since I've found you , maybe it will be good fun after all . 
Freckles was amazed to hear himself excusing It was so hot in there . 
You couldn't be expected to bear it for hours and not be moving . 
I can take you around the trail almost to where you were . 
Then you can sit in the carriage , and I will go find the Bird Woman . 
You'll be killed if you do ! When she stays this long , it means that she has a focus on something . 
If I melt , you won't go after her . 
She's probably blistered and half eaten up but she never will quit until she is satisfied . 
Then it will be safer to be taking care of you , suggested Freckles . 
Now you're talking sense ! said the Angel . 
May I try to help your arm ? he asked . 
Have you any idea how it hurts ? she parried . 
A little , said Freckles . 
Well , Mr. McLean said We'd probably find his son here His son ! cried Freckles . 
And that you would do anything you could for us and that we could trust you with our lives . 
But I would have trusted you anyway , if I hadn't known a thing about you . 
Say , your father is rampaging proud of you , isn't he ? I don't know , answered the dazed Freckles . 
Well , call on me if you want reliable information . 
He's so proud of you he is all swelled up like the toad in AEsop's Fables . 
Freckles unlocked his case , and taking out some cotton cloth , he tore it in strips . 
Then he brought a bucket of the cleanest water he could find . 
She yielded herself to his touch as a baby , and he bathed away the blood and bandaged the ugly , ragged wound . 
He finished his surgery by lapping the torn sleeve over the cloth and binding it down with a piece of twine , with the Angel's help about the knots . 
Freckles worked with trembling fingers and a face tense with earnestness . 
Is it feeling any better ? he asked . 
Oh , it's well now ! cried the Angel . 
It doesn't hurt at all , any more . 
I'm mighty glad , said Freckles . 
But you had best go and be having your doctor fix it right the minute you get home . 
Oh , bother ! A little scratch like that ! jeered the Angel . 
My blood is perfectly pure . 
It will heal in three days . 
It might be making a scar , faltered Freckles , his eyes on the ground . 
'Twould 'twould be an awful pity . 
A doctor might know something to prevent it . 
Why , I never thought of that ! exclaimed the Angel . 
I noticed you didn't , said Freckles softly . 
I don't know much about it , but it seems as if most girls would . 
The Angel thought intently , while Freckles still knelt beside her . 
Don't let's bother about it , she proposed , with the faintest hint of a confiding gesture toward him . 
It won't make a scar . 
Why , it couldn't , when you have dressed it so nicely . 
The velvety touch of her warm arm was tingling in Freckles' fingertips . 
Dainty lace and fine white ribbon peeped through her torn dress . 
There were beautiful rings on her fingers . 
Every article she wore was of the finest material and in excellent taste . 
There was the trembling Limberlost guard in his coarse clothing , with his cotton rags and his old pail of swamp water . 
Freckles was sufficiently accustomed to contrasts to notice them , and sufficiently fine to be hurt by them always . 
He lifted his eyes with a shadowy pain in them to hers , and found them of serene , unconscious purity . 
What she had said was straight from a kind , untainted , young heart . 
She meant every word of it . 
He scarcely knew whether he could muster strength to stand . 
We must go and hunt for the carriage , said the Angel , rising . 
In instant alarm for her , Freckles sprang up , grasped the cudgel , and led the way , sharply watching every step . 
He went as close the log as he felt that he dared , and with a little searching found the carriage . 
He cleared a path for the Angel , and with a sigh of relief saw her enter it safely . 
She pushed the damp hair from her temples . 
This is a shame ! said Freckles . 
You'll never be coming here again . 
Oh yes I shall ! said the Angel . 
The Bird Woman says that these birds remain over a month in the nest and she would like to make a picture every few days for seven or eight weeks , perhaps . 
Freckles barely escaped crying aloud for joy . 
Then don't you ever be torturing yourself and your horse to be coming in here again , he said . 
I'll show you a way to drive almost to the nest on the east trail , and then you can come around to my room and stay while the Bird Woman works . 
It's nearly always cool there , and there's comfortable seats , and water . 
Oh ! did you have drinking water there ? she cried . 
I was never so thirsty or so hungry in my life , but I thought I wouldn't mention it . 
And I had not the wit to be seeing ! wailed Freckles . 
I can be getting you a good drink in no time . 
He turned to the trail . 
Please wait a minute , called the Angel . 
What's your name ? I want to think about you while you are gone . 
Freckles lifted his face with the brown rift across it and smiled quizzically . 
Freckles ? she guessed , with a peal of laughter . 
And mine is I'm knowing yours , interrupted Freckles . 
I don't believe you do . 
What is it ? asked the girl . 
You won't be getting angry ? Not until I've had the water , at least . 
It was Freckles' turn to laugh . 
Once out of her sight , Freckles ran every step of the way to the cabin . 
Mrs. Duncan gave him a small bucket of water , cool from the well . 
He carried it in the crook of his right arm , and a basket filled with bread and butter , cold meat , apple pie , and pickles , in his left hand . 
Pickles are kind o' cooling , said Mrs. Duncan . 
The Angel was on her knees , reaching for the bucket , as he came up . 
Be drinking slow , he cautioned her . 
Oh ! she cried , with a long breath of satisfaction . 
It's so good ! You are more than kind to bring it ! Freckles stood blinking in the dazzling glory of her smile until he scarcely could see to lift the basket . 
I think I had better be naming you the Angel . 
I look the character every day but today most emphatic ! Angels don't go by looks , laughed the girl . 
Your father told us you had been scrapping . 
But he told us why . 
I'd gladly wear all your cuts and bruises if I could do anything that would make my father look as peacocky as yours did . 
I never saw anyone look prouder . 
Did he say he was proud of me ? marveled Freckles . 
He didn't need to , answered the Angel . 
He was radiating pride from every pore . 
Now , have you brought me your dinner ? I had my dinner two hours ago , answered Freckles . 
Honest Injun ? bantered the Angel . 
Honest ! I brought that on purpose for you . 
Well , if you knew how hungry I am , you would know how thankful I am , to the dot , said the Angel . 
Then you be eating , cried the happy Freckles . 
The Angel sat on a big camera , spread the lunch on the carriage seat , and divided it in halves . 
The daintiest parts she could select she carefully put back into the basket . 
As he watched her with famished eyes , Freckles told her of his birds , flowers , and books , and never realized what he was doing . 
She was staggering under a load of cameras and paraphernalia . 
Freckles ran to her aid . 
He took all he could carry of her load , stowed it in the back of the carriage , and helped her in . 
The Angel gave her water , knelt and unfastened the leggings , bathed her face , and offered the lunch . 
He was not sure about the harness , but the Angel knew , and soon they left the swamp . 
The Bird Woman finished her lunch , and lay back , almost too tired to speak . 
Were you for getting Little Chicken's picture ? Freckles asked . 
But I couldn't do anything with his mother . 
The Lord be praised ! muttered Freckles under his breath . 
The Bird Woman began to feel better . 
Why do you call the baby vulture Little Chicken' ? she asked , leaning toward Freckles in an interested manner . 
'Twas Duncan began it , said Freckles . 
You see , through the fierce cold of winter the birds of the swamp were almost starving . 
It is mighty lonely here , and they were all the company I was having . 
I got to carrying scraps and grain down to them . 
Duncan was that ginerous he was giving me of his wheat and corn from his chickens' feed , and he called the birds me swamp chickens . 
Good enough ! cried the Bird Woman , her splotched purple face lighting with interest . 
You must shoot something for them occasionally , and I'll bring more food when I come . 
If you will help me keep them until I get my series , I'll give you a copy of each study I make , mounted in a book . 
Freckles drew a deep breath . 
I'll be doing me very best , he promised , and from the deeps he meant it . 
I wonder if that other egg is going to hatch ? mused the Bird Woman . 
It should have pipped today . 
Isn't it a beauty ! I never before saw either an egg or the young . 
They are rare this far north . 
So Mr. McLean said , answered Freckles . 
Before they drove away , the Bird Woman thanked him for his kindness to the Angel and to her . 
She gave him her hand at parting , and Freckles joyfully realized that this was going to be another person for him to love . 
He could not remember , after they had driven away , that they even had noticed his missing hand , and for the first time in his life he had forgotten it . 
When the Bird Woman and the Angel were on the home road , she told of the little corner of paradise into which she had strayed and of her new name . 
The Bird Woman looked at the girl and guessed its appropriateness . 
Did you know Mr. McLean had a son ? asked the Angel . 
There must be something rare about that young man . 
She did not find it necessary to tell the Angel that for several years she had known the man who so proudly proclaimed himself Freckles' father to be a bachelor and a Scotchman . 
The Bird Woman had a fine way of attending strictly to her own business . 
Freckles turned to the trail , but he stopped at every wild brier to study the pink satin of the petals . 
She was not of his world , and better than any other he knew it but she might be his Angel , and he was dreaming of naught but blind , silent worship . 
He finished the happiest day of his life , and that night he returned to the swamp as if drawn by invisible force . 
That Wessner would try for his revenge , he knew . 
That he would be abetted by Black Jack was almost certain , but fear had fled the happy heart of Freckles . 
He had kept his trust . 
He had won the respect of the Boss . 
No one ever could wipe from his heart the flood of holy adoration that had welled with the coming of his Angel . 
He would do his best , and trust for strength to meet the dark day of reckoning that he knew would come sooner or later . 
He swung round the trail , briskly tapping the wire , and singing in a voice that scarcely could have been surpassed for sweetness . 
At the edge of the clearing he came into the bright moonlight and there sat McLean on his mare . 
Is there trouble ? he inquired anxiously . 
That's what I wanted to ask you , said the Boss . 
I stopped at the cabin to see you a minute , before I turned in , and they said you had come down here . 
You must not do it , Freckles . 
The swamp is none too healthful at any time , and at night it is rank poison . 
Freckles stood combing his fingers through Nellie's mane , while the dainty creature was twisting her head for his caresses . 
He pushed back his hat and looked into McLean's face . 
It's come to the sleep with one eye open , sir . 
I'm not looking for anything to be happening for a week or two , but it's bound to come , and soon . 
If I'm to keep me trust as I've promised you and meself , I've to live here mostly until the gang comes . 
You must be knowing that , sir . 
I'm afraid it's true , Freckles , said McLean . 
And I've decided to double the guard until we come . 
It will be only a few weeks , now and I'm so anxious for you that you must not be left alone further . 
If anything should happen to you , Freckles , it would spoil one of the very dearest plans of my life . 
Freckles heard with dismay the proposition to place a second guard . 
Oh ! no , no , Mr. McLean , he cried . 
It will just kill the honor of me heart if you do it . 
The only thing I want is another gun . 
If it railly comes to trouble , six cartridges ain't many , and you know I am slow like about reloading . 
McLean reached into his hip pocket and handed a shining big revolver to Freckles , who slipped it beside the one already in his belt . 
Then the Boss sat brooding . 
Freckles , he said at last , we never know the timber of a man's soul until something cuts into him deeply and brings the grain out strong . 
You've the making of a mighty fine piece of furniture , my boy , and you shall have your own way these few weeks yet . 
But why should you be doing that , sir ? he faltered . 
McLean slid his arm around the boy's shoulder and gathered him close . 
Because I love you , Freckles , he said simply . 
Freckles lifted a white face . 
My God , sir ! he whispered . 
Oh , my God ! McLean tightened his clasp a second longer , then he rode down the trail . 
Freckles lifted his hat and faced the sky . 
The harvest moon looked down , sheeting the swamp in silver glory . 
The Limberlost sang her night song . 
The swale softly rustled in the wind . 
Winged things of night brushed his face and still Freckles gazed upward , trying to fathom these things that had come to him . 
There was no help from the sky . 
It seemed far away , cold , and blue . 
The earth , where flowers blossomed , angels walked , and love could be found , was better . 
But to One , above , he must make acknowledgment for these miracles . 
His lips moved and he began talking softly . 
Thank You for each separate good thing that has come to me , he said , and above all for the falling of the feather . 
He kept snatches of song ringing , as well as the wires . 
His heart was so full that tears of joy glistened in his eyes . 
He rigorously strove to divide his thought evenly between McLean and the Angel . 
He realized to the fullest the debt he already owed the Boss and the magnitude of last night's declaration and promises . 
He was hourly planning to deliver his trust and then enter with equal zeal on whatever task his beloved Boss saw fit to set him next . 
He wanted to be ready to meet every device that Wessner and Black Jack could think of to outwit him . 
He recognized their double leverage , for if they succeeded in felling even one tree McLean became liable for his wager . 
Freckles' brow wrinkled in his effort to think deeply and strongly , but from every swaying wild rose the Angel beckoned to him . 
When he crossed Sleepy Snake Creek and the goldfinch , waiting as ever , challenged SEE ME ? Freckles saw the dainty swaying grace of the Angel instead . 
What is a man to do with an Angel who dismembers herself and scatters over a whole swamp , thrusting a vivid reminder upon him at every turn ? Freckles counted the days . 
This first one he could do little but test his wires , sing broken snatches , and dream but before the week would bring her again he could do many things . 
He would carry all his books to the swamp to show to her . 
He would complete his flower bed , arrange every detail he had planned for his room , and make of it a bower fairies might envy . 
He must devise a way to keep water cool . 
He would tell her to bring heavy leather leggings , so that he might take her on a trip around the trail . 
She should make friends with all of his chickens and see their nests . 
On the line he talked of her incessantly . 
You needn't be thinking , he said to the goldfinch , that because I'm coming down this line alone day after day , it's always to be so . 
The sunshine won't look gold any more , or the roses pink , or the sky blue , because she'll be the pinkest , bluest , goldest thing of all . 
You'll be yelling yourself hoarse with the jealousy of her . 
The sawbird will stretch his neck out of joint , and she'll turn the heads of all the flowers . 
He sent the cudgel whirling skyward , dexterously caught it , and set it spinning . 
You damned presumptuous fool ! he cried . 
Maybe she'll be wanting the cup me blue and brown chickens raised their babies in . 
Perhaps she'd like to stop at the pool and see me bullfrog that had the goodness to take on human speech to show me the way out of me trouble . 
So Freckles dreamed his dreams , made his plans , and watched his line . 
He counted not only the days , but the hours of each day . 
As he told them off , every one bringing her closer , he grew happier in the prospect of her coming . 
He managed daily to leave some offering at the big elm log for his black chickens . 
He slipped under the line at every passing , and went to make sure that nothing was molesting them . 
Though it was a long trip , he paid them several extra visits a day for fear a snake , hawk , or fox might have found the baby . 
For now his chickens not only represented all his former interest in them , but they furnished the inducement that was bringing his Angel . 
Possibly he could find other subjects that the Bird Woman wanted . 
The teamster had said that his brother went after her every time he found a nest . 
He never had counted the nests that he knew of , and it might be that among all the birds of the swamp some would be rare to her . 
The feathered folk of the Limberlost were practically undisturbed save by their natural enemies . 
It was very probable that among his chickens others as odd as the big black ones could be found . 
He had gathered bugs and worms all spring as he noticed them on the grass and bushes , and dropped them into the first little open mouth he had found . 
The babies gladly had accepted this queer tri parent addition to their natural providers . 
When the week had passed , Freckles had his room crisp and glowing with fresh living things that represented every color of the swamp . 
He carried bark and filled all the muckiest places of the trail . 
The brighter hued flowers were opening . 
The trumpet creepers were flaunting their gorgeous horns of red and gold sweetness from the tops of lordly oak and elm , and below entire pools were pink sheeted in mallow bloom . 
The heat was doing one other thing that was bound to make Freckles , as a good Irishman , shiver . 
As the swale dried , its inhabitants were seeking the cooler depths of the swamp . 
They liked neither the heat nor leaving the field mice , moles , and young rabbits of their chosen location . 
He saw them crossing the trail every day as the heat grew intense . 
The rattlers were sadly forgetting their manners , for they struck on no provocation whatever , and did not even remember to rattle afterward . 
Daily Freckles was compelled to drive big black snakes and blue racers from the nests of his chickens . 
Often the terrified squalls of the parent birds would reach him far down the line and he would run to rescue the babies . 
He saw the Angel when the carriage turned from the corduroy into the clearing . 
They followed the east line to a point opposite the big chickens' tree , and Freckles carried in the cameras and showed the Bird Woman a path he had cleared to the log . 
He explained to her the effect the heat was having on the snakes , and creeping back to Little Chicken , brought him to the light . 
As she worked at setting up her camera , he told her of the birds of the line , while she stared at him , wide eyed and incredulous . 
They arranged that Freckles should drive the carriage into the east entrance in the shade and then take the horse toward the north to a better place he knew . 
Then he was to entertain the Angel at his study or on the line until the Bird Woman finished her work and came to them . 
This will take only a little time , she said . 
I have ten plates along , and I surely won't use more than two on him so perhaps I can get some nests or young birds this morning . 
Freckles almost flew , for his dream had come true so soon . 
He was walking the timber line and the Angel was following him . 
He asked to be excused for going first , because he wanted to be sure the trail was safe for her . 
She laughed at his fears , telling him that it was the polite thing for him to do , anyway . 
Freckles did not realize how he was talking that morning . 
He showed her many of the beautiful nests and eggs of the line . 
At his room , when Freckles had lifted the overhanging bushes and stepped back for her to enter , his heart was all out of time and place . 
The study was vastly more beautiful than a week previous . 
The Angel drew a deep breath and stood gazing first at one side , then at another , then far down the cathedral aisle . 
It's just fairyland ! she cried ecstatically . 
Then she turned and stared at Freckles as she had at his handiwork . 
What are you planning to be ? she asked wonderingly . 
Whatever Mr. McLean wants me to , he replied . 
What do you do most ? she asked . 
I don't mean work ! Oh , in me spare time I keep me room and study in me books . 
Do you work on the room or the books most ? On the room only what it takes to keep it up , and the rest of the time on me books . 
The Angel studied him closely . 
Well , maybe you are going to be a great scholar , she said , but you don't look it . 
Your face isn't right for that , but it's got something big in it something really great . 
I must find out what it is and then you must work on it . 
Your father is expecting you to do something . 
One can tell by the way he talks . 
You should begin right away . 
You've wasted too much time already . 
Poor Freckles hung his head . 
He never had wasted an hour in his life . 
There never had been one that was his to waste . 
The Angel , studying him intently , read the thought in his face . 
Oh , I don't mean that ! she cried , with the frank dismay of sixteen . 
Of course , you're not lazy ! No one ever would think that from your appearance . 
It's this I mean there is something fine , strong , and full of power in your face . 
If you hadn't a thing in the world to keep you , and could go anywhere you please and do anything you want , what would you do ? persisted the Angel . 
I'd go to Chicago and sing in the First Episcopal choir , answered Freckles promptly . 
The Angel dropped on a seat the hat she had removed and held in her fingers rolled to her feet . 
There ! she exclaimed vehemently . 
You can see what I'm going to be . 
Nothing ! Absolutely nothing ! You can sing ? Of course you can sing ! It is written all over you . 
Anyone with half wit could have seen he could sing , without having to be told , she thought . 
It's in the slenderness of his fingers and his quick nervous touch . 
Will you do something for me ? she asked . 
Good ! That's business ! said the Angel . 
You go over there and stand before that hedge and sing something . 
Just anything you think of first . 
In dreams we'll stand upon that shore And all the realm behold We'll see the sights so grand That belong to fairyland , Its mysteries we will explore , Its beauties will unfold . 
O fairyland , sweet fairyland , we love to sing No song could have given the intense sweetness and rollicking quality of Freckles' voice better scope . 
He forgot everything but pride in his work . 
They both sprang toward the entrance . 
Freckles ! Freckles ! called the voice of the Bird Woman . 
They were at the trail on the instant . 
Both those revolvers loaded ? she asked . 
Is there a way you can cut across the swamp and reach the chicken tree in a few minutes , and with little noise ? Yes . 
Then go flying , said the Bird Woman . 
Give the Angel a lift behind me , and we will ride the horse back where you left him and wait for you . 
I finished Little Chicken in no time and put him back . 
His mother came so close , I felt sure she would enter the log . 
A short , stout man and a tall , dark one passed me so closely I almost could have reached out and touched them . 
They carried a big saw on their shoulders . 
They said they could work until near noon , and then they must lay off until you passed and then try to load and get out at night . 
They went on not entirely from sight and began cutting a tree . 
Mr. McLean told me the other day what would probably happen here , and if they fell that tree he loses his wager on you . 
Keep to the east and north and hustle . 
We'll meet you at the carriage . 
Give Angel one of your revolvers , and you keep the other . 
We will separate and creep toward them from different sides and give them a fusillade that will send them flying . 
You hurry , now ! She lifted the reins and started briskly down the trail . 
The Angel , hatless and with sparkling eyes , was clinging around her waist . 
As he ran he tried to think . 
It was Wessner , burning for his revenge , aided by the bully of the locality , that he was going to meet . 
His heart was jarring as it never had before with running . 
He must follow the Bird Woman's plan and meet them at the carriage , but if they really did intend to try to help him , he must not allow it . 
Allow the Angel to try to handle a revolver in his defence ? Never ! Not for all the trees in the Limberlost ! She might shoot herself . 
She might forget to watch sharply and run across a snake that was not particularly well behaved that morning . 
Freckles permitted himself a grim smile as he went speeding on . 
When he reached the carriage , the Bird Woman and the Angel had the horse hitched , the outfit packed , and were calmly waiting . 
The Bird Woman held a revolver in her hand . 
They had pinned a big focusing cloth over the front of the Angel's light dress . 
Give Angel one of your revolvers , quick ! said the Bird Woman . 
We will creep up until we are in fair range . 
The underbrush is so thick and they are so busy that they will never notice us , if we don't make a noise . 
You fire first , then I will pop in from my direction , and then you , Angel , and shoot quite high , or else very low . 
We mustn't really hit them . 
We'll go close enough to the cowards to make it interesting , and keep it up until we have them going . 
The Bird Woman reached over , and , taking the smaller revolver from his belt , handed it to the Angel . 
Keep your nerve steady , dear watch where you step , and shoot high , she said . 
Go straight at them from where you are . 
Wait until you hear Freckles' first shot , then follow me as closely as you can , to let them know that we outnumber them . 
If you want to save McLean's wager on you , now you go ! she commanded Freckles , who , with an agonized glance at the Angel , ran toward the east . 
The Bird Woman chose the middle distance , and for a last time cautioned the Angel as she moved away to lie down and shoot high . 
Through the underbrush the Bird Woman crept even more closely than she had intended , found a clear range , and waited for Freckles' shot . 
There was one long minute of sickening suspense . 
The men straightened for breath . 
Work was difficult with a handsaw in the heat of the swamp . 
As they rested , the big dark fellow took a bottle from his pocket and began oiling the saw . 
We got to keep mighty quiet , he said , and wait to fell it until that damned guard has gone to his dinner . 
Again they bent to their work . 
The saw handle flew from Wessner's hand and he reeled from the jar of the shock . 
Black Jack straightened , uttering a fearful oath . 
The hat sailed from his head from the far northeast . 
The Angel had not waited for the Bird Woman , and her shot scarcely could have been called high . 
At almost the same instant the third shot whistled from the east . 
Black Jack sprang into the air with a yell of complete panic , for it ripped a heel from his boot . 
Freckles emptied his second chamber , and the earth spattered over Wessner . 
Without even reaching for a weapon , both men ran toward the east road in great leaping bounds , while leaden slugs sung and hissed around them in deadly earnest . 
Freckles was trimming his corners as closely as he dared , but if the Angel did not really intend to hit , she was taking risks in a scandalous manner . 
A spattering of lead followed them . 
They crossed the swale , running low , with not even one backward glance , and entered the woods beyond the corduroy . 
Then the little party gathered at the tree . 
I'd better fix this saw so they can't be using it if they come back , said Freckles , taking out his hatchet and making saw teeth fly . 
Now we must leave here without being seen , said the Bird Woman to the Angel . 
It won't do for me to make enemies of these men , for I am likely to meet them while at work any day . 
You can do it by driving straight north on this road , said Freckles . 
I will go ahead and cut the wires for you . 
The swale is almost dry . 
You will only be sinking a little . 
In a few rods you will strike a cornfield . 
I will take down the fence and let you into that . 
Follow the furrows and drive straight across it until you come to the other side . 
Be following the fence south until you come to a road through the woods east of it . 
Then take that road and follow east until you reach the pike . 
You will come out on your way back to town , and two miles north of anywhere they are likely to be . 
Don't for your lives ever let it out that you did this , he earnestly cautioned , for it's black enemies you would be making . 
Freckles clipped the wires and they drove through . 
The Angel leaned from the carriage and held out his revolver . 
Freckles looked at her in surprise . 
Her eyes were black , while her face was a deeper rose than usual . 
He felt that his own was white . 
Did I shoot high enough ? she asked sweetly . 
I really forgot about lying down . 
If I don't meet one when we reach town , we will send a messenger . 
If it wasn't for having the gang see me , I would go myself but I will promise you that you will have help in a little over two hours . 
They must think some of the gang is with you now . 
There isn't a chance that they will be back , but don't run any risks . 
If they should come , it probably would be for their saw . 
She laughed as at a fine joke . 
CHAPTER VII Wherein Freckles Wins Honor and Finds a Footprint on the Trail Round eyed , Freckles watched the Bird Woman and the Angel drive away . 
After they were from sight and he was safely hidden among the branches of a small tree , he remembered that he neither had thanked them nor said good bye . 
Considering what they had been through , they never would come again . 
His heart sank until he had palpitation in his wading boots . 
Stretching the length of the limb , he thought deeply , though he was not thinking of Black Jack or Wessner . 
Would the Bird Woman and the Angel come again ? No other woman whom he ever had known would . 
What were the people in the big world like ? His knowledge was so very limited . 
There had been people at the Home , who exchanged a stilted , perfunctory kindness for their salaries . 
They made him feel they cared that he was there , and that they would have been glad to see him elsewhere . 
Now here was another class , that had all they needed of the world's best and were engaged in doing work that counted . 
They had things worth while to be proud of and they had met him as a son and brother . 
With them he could , for the only time in his life , forget the lost hand that every day tortured him with a new pang . 
Nearer and nearer they came , and as the heavy wagons rumbled down the east trail he could hear them plainly . 
The gang were shouting themselves hoarse for the Limberlost guard . 
Freckles did not feel that he deserved it . 
He would have given much to he able to go to the men and explain , but to McLean only could he tell his story . 
At the sight of Freckles the men threw up their hats and cheered . 
McLean shook hands with him warmly , but big Duncan gathered him into his arms and hugged him as a bear and choked over a few words of praise . 
The gang drove in and finished felling the tree . 
When the last wagon rolled away , McLean sat on the stump and Freckles told the story he was aching to tell . 
The Boss scarcely could believe his senses . 
Also , he was much disappointed . 
We can't mix up those women in it . 
They have helped you save me the tree and my wager as well . 
Going across the country as she does , the Bird Woman never could be expected to testify against them . 
No , indeed nor the Angel , either , sir , said Freckles . 
The Angel ? queried the astonished McLean . 
The Boss listened in silence while Freckles told of the coming and christening of the Angel . 
I know her father well , said McLean at last , and I have often seen her . 
You are right she is a beautiful young girl , and she appears to be utterly free from the least particle of false pride or foolishness . 
I do not understand why her father risks such a jewel in this place . 
He's daring it because she is a jewel , sir , said Freckles , eagerly . 
Why , she's trusting a rattlesnake to rattle before it strikes her , and of course , she thinks she can trust mankind as well . 
The man isn't made who wouldn't lay down the life of him for her . 
She doesn't need any care . 
Her face and the pretty ways of her are all the protection she would need in a band of howling savages . 
Did you say she handled one of the revolvers ? asked McLean . 
She scared all the breath out of me body , admitted Freckles . 
Seems that her father has taught her to shoot . 
The Bird Woman told her distinctly to lie low and blaze away high , just to help scare them . 
As long as I'd no one to help me but a couple of women that didn't dare be mixed up in it , all I could do was to let them get away . 
Now , will they come back ? asked McLean . 
Of course ! said Freckles . 
They're not going to be taking that . 
You could stake your life on it , they'll be coming back . 
At least , Black Jack will . 
Wessner may not have the pluck , unless he is half drunk . 
Then he'd be a terror . 
And the next time Freckles hesitated . 
What ? It will be a question of who shoots first and straightest . 
Then the only thing for me to do is to double the guard and bring the gang here the first minute possible . 
As soon as I feel that we have the rarest of the stuff out below , we will come . 
The fact is , in many cases , until it is felled it's difficult to tell what a tree will prove to be . 
It won't do to leave you here longer alone . 
Jack has been shooting twenty years to your one , and it stands to reason that you are no match for him . 
Who of the gang would you like best to have with you ? No one , sir , said Freckles emphatically . 
Next time is where I run . 
I won't try to fight them alone . 
I'll just be getting wind of them , and then make tracks for you . 
I'll need to come like lightning , and Duncan has no extra horse , so I'm thinking you'd best get me one or perhaps a wheel would be better . 
I used to do extra work for the Home doctor , and he would let me take his bicycle to ride around the place . 
And at times the head nurse would loan me his for an hour . 
A wheel would cost less and be faster than a horse , and would take less care . 
Yes , said McLean and if you didn't have a first class wheel , you never could cross the corduroy on it at all . 
As they walked to the cabin , McLean insisted on another guard , but Freckles was stubbornly set on fighting his battle alone . 
He made one mental condition . 
He did not propose to have a second man unless it were absolutely necessary , for he had been alone so long that he loved the solitude , his chickens , and flowers . 
The following morning McLean brought the wheel , and Freckles took it to the trail to test it . 
It was new , chainless , with as little as possible to catch in hurried riding , and in every way the best of its kind . 
Freckles went skimming around the trail on it on a preliminary trip before he locked it in his case and started his minute examination of his line on foot . 
He glanced around his room as he left it , and then stood staring . 
On the moss before his prettiest seat lay the Angel's hat . 
In the excitement of yesterday all of them had forgotten it . 
Then he went to the trail , with a new expression on his face and a strange throbbing in his heart . 
He was not in the least afraid of anything that morning . 
He felt he was the veriest Daniel , but all his lions seemed weak and harmless . 
What Black Jack's next move would be he could not imagine , but that there would be a move of some kind was certain . 
The big bully was not a man to give up his purpose , or to have the hat swept from his head with a bullet and bear it meekly . 
Moreover , Wessner would cling to his revenge with a Dutchman's singleness of mind . 
Freckles tried to think connectedly , but there were too many places on the trail where the Angel's footprints were vet visible . 
She had stepped in one mucky spot and left a sharp impression . 
The afternoon sun had baked it hard , and the horses' hoofs had not obliterated any part of it , as they had in so many places . 
Freckles stood fascinated , gazing at it . 
He measured it lovingly with his eye . 
He would not have ventured a caress on her hat any more than on her person , but this was different . 
Surely a footprint on a trail might belong to anyone who found and wanted it . 
He stooped under the wires and entered the swamp . 
When he reached his room , he tenderly laid the hat upon his bookshelf , and to wear off his awkwardness , mounted his wheel and went spinning on trail again . 
It was like flying , for the path was worn smooth with his feet and baked hard with the sun almost all the way . 
When he came to the bark , he veered far to one side and smiled at it in passing . 
Suddenly he was off the wheel , kneeling beside it . 
He removed his hat , carefully lifted the bark , and gazed lovingly at the imprint . 
I wonder what she was going to say of me voice , he whispered . 
She never got it said , but from the face of her , I believe she was liking it fairly well . 
Perhaps she was going to say that singing was the big thing I was to be doing . 
That's what they all thought at the Home . 
Then he arose , appearing as if he had been drinking at the fountain of gladness . 
CHAPTER VIII Wherein Freckles Meets a Man of Affairs and Loses Nothing by the Encounter Weel , I be drawed on ! exclaimed Mrs. Duncan . 
Freckles stood before her , holding the Angel's hat . 
She turned it around , examining the weave of the straw and the foliage trimmings , passing her rough fingers over the satin ties delightedly . 
As she held it up , admiring it , Freckles' astonished eyes saw a new side of Sarah Duncan . 
He resolved that when he reached the city he would send her a hat , if it took fifty dollars to do it . 
She lingeringly handed it back to him . 
It's unco guid of ye to think of me , she said lightly , but I maun question your taste a wee . 
D'ye no think ye had best return this and get a woman with half her hair gray a little plainer headdress ? Seems like that's far ower gay for me . 
I'm no' saying that it's no' exactly what I'd like to hae , but I mauna mak mysel' ridiculous . 
Ye'd best give this to somebody young and pretty , say about sixteen . 
Where did ye come by it , Freckles ? If there's anything been dropping lately , ye hae forgotten to mention it . 
Do you see anything heavenly about that hat ? queried Freckles , holding it up . 
The morning breeze waved the ribbons gracefully , binding one around Freckles' sleeve and the other across his chest , where they caught and clung as if magnetized . 
Yes , said Sarah Duncan . 
It's verra plain and simple , but it juist makes ye feel that it's all of the finest stuff . 
It's exactly what I'd call a heavenly hat . 
Sure , said Freckles , for it's belonging to an Angel ! Then he told her about the hat and asked her what he should do with it . 
Take it to her , of course ! said Sarah Duncan . 
Like it's the only ane she has and she may need it badly . 
He had a clear idea about the hat being the only one the Angel had . 
However , there was a thing he felt he should do and wanted to do , but he was not sure . 
You think I might be taking it home ? he said . 
Of course ye must , said Mrs. Duncan . 
And without another hour's delay . 
It's been here two days noo , and she may want it , and be too busy or afraid to come . 
But how can I take it ? asked Freckles . 
Gang spinning on your wheel . 
Ye can do it easy in an hour . 
But in that hour , what if ? Nonsense ! interrupted Sarah Duncan . 
Ye've watched that timber line until ye're grown fast to it , lad . 
Give me your boots and club and I'll gae walk the south end and watch doon the east and west sides until ye come back . 
Mrs. Duncan ! You never would be doing it , cried Freckles . 
Why not ? inquired she . 
But you know you're mortal afraid of snakes and a lot of other things in the swamp . 
I am afraid of snakes , said Mrs. Duncan , but likely they've gone into the swamp this hot weather . 
I'll juist stay on the trail and watch , and ye might hurry the least bit . 
The day's so bright it feels like storm . 
I can put the bairns on the woodpile to play until I get back . 
Ye gang awa and take the blessed little angel her beautiful hat . 
Are you sure it will be all right ? urged Freckles . 
Do you think if Mr. McLean came he would care ? Na , said Mrs. Duncan I dinna . 
If ye and me agree that a thing ought to be done , and I watch in your place , why , it's bound to be all right with McLean . 
Let me pin the hat in a paper , and ye jump on your wheel and gang flying . 
Ought ye put on your Sabbath day clothes ? Freckles shook his head . 
He knew what he should do , but there was no use in taking time to try to explain it to Mrs. Duncan while he was so hurried . 
He exchanged his wading boots for shoes , gave her his club , and went spinning toward town . 
He knew very well where the Angel lived . 
He had seen her home many times , and he passed it again without even raising his eyes from the street , steering straight for her father's place of business . 
Carrying the hat , Freckles passed a long line of clerks , and at the door of the private office asked to see the proprietor . 
And by saying to her and the Bird Woman that I'm more thankful than I'll be having words to express for the brave things they was doing for me . 
I'm McLean's Limberlost guard , sir . 
Why don't you take it yourself ? questioned the Man of Affairs . 
Then why ask why I did not ? came Freckles' lamb like query . 
Bless me ! said the Angel's father . 
He stared at the package , then at the lifted chin of the boy , and then at the package again , and muttered , Excuse me ! Freckles bowed . 
It would be favoring me greatly if you would deliver the hat and the message . 
Good morning , sir , and he turned away . 
One minute , said the Angel's father . 
Suppose I give you permission to return this hat in person and make your own acknowledgments . 
The Angel's father looked keenly into the face of this extraordinary young man , for he found it to his liking . 
There's one other thing I meant to say , said Freckles . 
Every day I see something , and at times a lot of things , that I think the Bird Woman would be wanting pictures of badly , if she knew . 
You might be speaking of it to her , and if she'd want me to , I can send her word when I find things she wouldn't likely get elsewhere . 
If that's the case , said the Angel's father , and you feel under obligations for her assistance the other day , you can discharge them in that way . 
She is spending all her time in the fields and woods searching for subjects . 
It's hungry for human beings I am , said Freckles , and it's like Heaven to me to have them come . 
Of course , I'll be telling or sending her word every time me work can spare me . 
There are many dangers to be reckoned with in the swamp , sir , that call for every person to look sharp . 
If there wasn't really thieving to guard against , why , McLean wouldn't need be paying out good money for a guard . 
I'd love them to be coming , and I'll do all I can , but you must be told that there's danger of them running into timber thieves again any day , sir . 
She's as safe in the Limberlost as she is at home , so far as timber thieves are concerned . 
All I am ever uneasy about are the snakes , poison vines , and insects and those are risks she must run anywhere . 
You need not hesitate a minute about that . 
I shall be glad to tell them what you wish . 
Thank you very much , and good day , sir . 
On the street he drew a deep breath . 
How had he acquitted himself ? He only knew that he had lived up to his best impulse , and that is all anyone can do . 
She was in snowy white a quaint little frock , with a marvel of soft lace around her throat and wrists . 
Through the sheer sleeves of it her beautiful , rounded arms showed distinctly , and it was cut just to the base of her perfect neck . 
There were gleams of gold with settings of blue on her fingers , and altogether she was the daintiest , sweetest sight he ever had seen . 
Oh Freckles , she cried as she came to him . 
I was wondering about you the other day . 
Do you know I never saw you in town before . 
You forgot it in the rush the other day . 
I have left it with your father , and a message trying to ixpriss the gratitude of me for how you and the Bird Woman were for helping me out . 
The Angel nodded gravely , then Freckles saw that he had done the proper thing in going to her father . 
His heart bounded until it jarred his body , for she was saying that she scarcely could wait for the time to come for the next picture of the Little Chicken series . 
I want to hear the remainder of that song , and I hadn't even begun seeing your room yet , she complained . 
As for singing , if you can sing like that every day , I never can get enough of it . 
I wonder if I couldn't bring my banjo and some of the songs I like best . 
I'll play and you sing , and we'll put the birds out of commission . 
Freckles stood on the curb with drooped eyes , for he felt that if he lifted them the tumult of tender adoration in them would show and frighten her . 
I was afraid your ixperience the other day would scare you so that you'd never be coming again , he found himself saying . 
Did I seem scared ? she questioned . 
No , said Freckles , you did not . 
Oh , I just enjoyed that , she cried . 
Those hateful , stealing old things ! I had a big notion to pink one of them , but I thought maybe someway it would be best for you that I shouldn't . 
Did they come back ? No , said Freckles . 
Oh , what a shame ! cried the Angel . 
They'll clear out roads , cut down the beautiful trees , and tear up everything . 
They'll drive away the birds and spoil the cathedral . 
When they have done their worst , then all these mills close here will follow in and take out the cheap timber . 
Then the landowners will dig a few ditches , build some fires , and in two summers more the Limberlost will be in corn and potatoes . 
They looked at each other , and groaned despairingly in unison . 
You like it , too , said Freckles . 
Yes , said the Angel , I love it . 
Your room is a little piece right out of the heart of fairyland , and the cathedral is God's work , not yours . 
You only found it and opened the door after He had it completed . 
The birds , flowers , and vines are all so lovely . 
The Bird Woman says it is really a fact that the mallows , foxfire , iris , and lilies are larger and of richer coloring there than in the remainder of the country . 
She says it's because of the rich loam and muck . 
I hate seeing the swamp torn up , and to you it will be like losing your best friend won't it ? Something like , said Freckles . 
Still , I've the Limberlost in me heart so that all of it will be real to me while I live , no matter what they do to it . 
I'm glad past telling if you will be coming a few more times , at least until the gang arrives . 
Past that time I don't allow mesilf to be thinking . 
Come , have a cool drink before you start back , said the Angel . 
I couldn't possibly , said Freckles . 
I left Mrs. Duncan on the trail , and she's terribly afraid of a lot of things . 
If she even sees a big snake , I don't know what she'll do . 
It won't take but a minute , and you can ride fast enough to make up for it . 
I want to think of something fine for you , to make up a little for what you did for me that first day . 
Freckles looked in sheer wonderment into the beautiful face of the Angel . 
Still , in justice to the candor of her pure , sweet face , he would not think that she would make the offer and not mean it . 
It would be only a manly thing for him to think this out , and save her from the results of her own blessed bigness of heart . 
I railly must be off , said Freckles earnestly , but I'm thanking you more than you'll ever know for your kindness . 
I'll just be drinking bowls of icy things all me way home in the thoughts of it . 
Down came the Angel's foot . 
There's no sense in that , she said . 
I've just thought out what I want to fix for you . 
She stepped to his side and deliberately slipped her hand under his arm that right arm that ended in an empty sleeve . 
You are coming , she said firmly . 
Freckles could not have told how he felt , neither could anyone else . 
His blood rioted and his head swam , but he kept his wits . 
Please don't , Angel , he said softly . 
How Freckles came to understand was a problem . 
It's this , he persisted . 
She dropped Freckles' arm and turned toward the entrance to the building . 
Why , look there ! she exclaimed . 
The Angel caught his glance and made a despairing little gesture toward Freckles . 
The Man of Affairs answered her with a look of infinite tenderness . 
At sight of the Angel's father he had stepped back as far from her as he could , leaned the wheel against him , and snatched off his hat . 
The Angel turned on him with triumphing eyes . 
She was highly strung and not accustomed to being thwarted . 
Did You see that ? she demanded . 
Now are you satisfied ? Will you come , or must I call a policeman to bring you ? Freckles went . 
There was nothing else to do . 
Guiding his wheel , he walked down the street beside her . 
On every hand she was kept busy giving and receiving the cheeriest greetings . 
She walked into the parlors exactly as if she owned them . 
A clerk came hurrying to meet her . 
There's a table vacant beside a window where it is cool . 
I'll save it for you , and he started back . 
Please not , said the Angel . 
I've taken this man unawares , when he's in a rush . 
I'm afraid if we sit down we'll take too much time and afterward he will blame me . 
She walked to the fountain , and a long row of people stared with all the varying degrees of insolence and curiosity that Freckles had felt they would . 
He glanced at the Angel . 
NOW would she see ? On my soul ! he muttered under his breath . 
They don't aven touch her ! She laid down her sunshade and gloves . 
She walked to the end of the counter and turned the full battery of her eyes on the attendant . 
The white aproned individual stepped back and gave delighted assent . 
The Angel stepped beside him , and selecting a tall , flaring glass , of almost paper thinness , she stooped and rolled it in a tray of cracked ice . 
I want to mix a drink for my friend , she said . 
There was an appreciative laugh from the line at the counter . 
I want a clear , cool , sparkling drink that has a tang of acid in it . 
Where's the cherry phosphate ? That , not at all sweet , would be good don't you think ? The attendant did think . 
When she had the glass brimming , she tilted a little of its contents into a second glass and tasted it . 
That's entirely too sweet for a thirsty man , she said . 
She poured out half the mixture , and refilling the glass , tasted it a second time . 
She submitted that result to the attendant . 
Isn't that about the thing ? she asked . 
I'd get my wages raised ten a month if I could learn that trick . 
The Angel carried the brimming , frosty glass to Freckles . 
As he had said to her that first day , she now cautioned him Be drinking slowly . 
We're accustomed to it here . 
Hardly a day passes , this hot weather , but she's picking up some poor , god forsaken mortal and bringing him in . 
Then she comes behind the counter herself and fixes up a drink to suit the occasion . 
She's a sort of knack at it . 
Every once in a while , when the Boss sees her , he calls out to her to mix him a drink . 
And does she ? asked the man with an interested grin . 
Well , I guess ! But first she goes back and sees how long it is since he's had a drink . 
I honestly believe that the INTEREST she takes in it is half the trick , for I watch her closely and I can't come within gunshot of her concoctions . 
She has a running bill here . 
Her father settles once a month . 
She gives nine tenths of it away . 
Hardly ever touches it herself , but when she does she makes me mix it . 
Even the scrub boy of this establishment would fight for her . 
It lasts the year round , for in winter it's some poor , frozen cuss that she's warming up on hot coffee or chocolate . 
Mighty queer specimen she had this time , volunteered another . 
Irish , hand off , straight as a ramrod , and something worth while in his face . 
Now , will you promise to ride fast enough to make up for the five minutes that took ? she asked . 
I am a little uneasy about Mrs. Duncan . 
Freckles turned his wheel into the street . 
It seemed to him he had poured that delicious icy liquid into every vein in his body instead of his stomach . 
It even went to his brain . 
Did you insist on fixing that drink because you knew how intoxicating twould be ? he asked . 
There was subtlety in the compliment and it delighted the Angel . 
Next time , maybe you won't take so much coaxing , she teased . 
I wouldn't this , if I had known your father and been understanding you better . 
Do you really think the Bird Woman will be coming again ? The Angel jeered . 
Wild horses couldn't drag her away , she cried . 
She will have hard work to wait the week out . 
I shouldn't be in the least surprised to see her start any hour . 
Freckles could not endure the suspense it had to come . 
And you ? he questioned , but he dared not lift his eyes . 
It's beginning to act stormy , she said . 
If you hurry you will just about make it . 
CHAPTER IX Wherein the Limberlost Falls upon Mrs. Duncan and Freckles Comes to the Rescue Freckles was halfway to the Limberlost when he dismounted . 
He could ride no farther , because he could not see the road . 
He sat under a tree , and , leaning against it , sobs shook , twisted , and rent him . 
In spite of accident and poverty , they evidently expected him to do something worth while in the world . 
That must be his remedy . 
He must work on his education . 
He must find and do the great thing of which the Angel talked . 
For the first time , his thoughts turned anxiously toward the city and the beginning of his studies . 
McLean and the Duncans spoke of him as the boy , but he was a man . 
He must face life bravely and act a man's part . 
The Angel was a mere child . 
There was an ominous growl of thunder , and amazed at himself , Freckles snatched up his wheel and raced toward the swamp . 
Thoroughly frightened , he stopped only long enough to slip them on , and then sped with all his strength for the Limberlost . 
Freckles spun with all his might . 
Face down , Sarah Duncan lay across the trail . 
When Freckles turned her over , his blood chilled at the look of horror settled on her face . 
There was a low humming and something spatted against him . 
Glancing around , Freckles shivered in terror , for there was a swarm of wild bees settled on a scrub thorn only a few yards away . 
The air was filled with excited , unsettled bees making ready to lead farther in search of a suitable location . 
She had found Freckles' boots so large and heavy that she had gone back and taken them off , although she was mortally afraid to approach the swamp without them . 
The thought of it made her nervous , and the fact that she never had been there alone added to her fears . 
She had not followed the trail many rods when her trouble began . 
She was not Freckles , so not a bird of the line was going to be fooled into thinking she was . 
They began jumping from their nests and darting from unexpected places around her head and feet , with quick whirs , that kept her starting and dodging . 
Before Freckles was halfway to the town , poor Mrs. Duncan was hysterical , and the Limberlost had neither sung nor performed for her . 
But there was trouble brewing . 
It was quiet and intensely hot , with that stifling stillness that precedes a summer storm , and feathers and fur were tense and nervous . 
The birds were singing only a few broken snatches , and flying around , seeking places of shelter . 
One moment everything seemed devoid of life , the next there was an unexpected whir , buzz , and sharp cry . 
Inside , a pandemonium of growling , spatting , snarling , and grunting broke loose . 
The swale bent flat before heavy gusts of wind , and the big black chicken swept lower and lower above the swamp . 
Patches of clouds gathered , shutting out the sun and making it very dark , and the next moment were swept away . 
The sun poured with fierce , burning brightness , and everything was quiet . 
It was at the first growl of thunder that Freckles really had noticed the weather , and putting his own troubles aside resolutely , raced for the swamp . 
Sarah Duncan paused on the line . 
She tremblingly wiped the perspiration from her face with the skirt of her sunbonnet . 
Awfu' hot , she panted huskily . 
B'lieve there's going to be a big storm . 
I do hope Freckles will hurry . 
Her chin was quivering as a terrified child's . 
She lifted her bonnet to replace it and brushed against a bush beside her . 
WHIRR , almost into her face , went a nighthawk stretched along a limb for its daytime nap . 
Mrs. Duncan cried out and sprang down the trail , alighting on a frog that was hopping across . 
The horrible croak it gave as she crushed it sickened her . 
She screamed wildly and jumped to one side . 
She alighted squarely , but it was so damp and rotten that she sank straight through it to her knees . 
She caught at the wire as she went down , and missing , raked her wrist across a barb until she tore a bleeding gash . 
Her fingers closed convulsively around the second strand . 
She was too frightened to scream now . 
She clung frantically to the sagging wire , and finally managed to grasp it with the other hand . 
Then she could reach the top wire , and so she drew herself up and found solid footing . 
She picked up the club that she had dropped in order to extricate herself . 
Leaning heavily on it , she managed to return to the trail , but she was trembling so that she scarcely could walk . 
Going a few steps farther , she came to the stump of the first tree that had been taken out . 
She sat bolt upright and very still , trying to collect her thoughts and reason away her terror . 
A squirrel above her dropped a nut , and as it came rattling down , bouncing from branch to branch , every nerve in her tugged wildly . 
When the disgusted squirrel barked loudly , she sprang to the trail . 
The wind arose higher , the changes from light to darkness were more abrupt , while the thunder came closer and louder at every peal . 
In swarms the blackbirds arose from the swale and came flocking to the interior , with a clamoring cry T'CHECK , T'CHECK . 
Grackles marshaled to the tribal call TRALL A HEE , TRALL A HEE . 
Red winged blackbirds swept low , calling to belated mates FOL LOW ME , FOL LOW ME . 
Big , jetty crows gathered close to her , crying , as if warning her to flee before it was everlastingly too late . 
She was too shaken to run far . 
She stopped and looked around her fearfully . 
Several bees struck her and were angrily buzzing before she noticed them . 
Then the humming swelled on all sides . 
Presently the humming seemed to become a little fainter . 
She found the trail again , and ran with all her might from a few of her angry pursuers . 
She tried to stop , but the louder buzzing behind warned her she dared not . 
Gathering her skirts higher , with hair flying around her face and her eyes almost bursting from their sockets , she ran straight toward it . 
Straight toward it went the panic stricken woman , running wildly and uncontrollably . 
She took one leap , clearing its body on the path , then flew ahead with winged feet . 
The snake , coiled to strike , missed Mrs. Duncan and landed among the bees instead . 
They settled over and around it , and realizing that it had found trouble , it sank among the grasses and went threshing toward its den in the deep willow fringed low ground . 
The swale appeared as if a reaper were cutting a wide swath . 
The mass of enraged bees darted angrily around , searching for it , and striking the scrub thorn , began a temporary settling there to discover whether it were a suitable place . 
Completely exhausted , Mrs. Duncan staggered on a few steps farther , fell facing the path , where Freckles found her , and lay quietly . 
Freckles worked over her until she drew a long , quivering breath and opened her eyes . 
When she saw him bending above her , she closed them tightly , and gripping him , struggled to her feet . 
He helped her , and with his arm around and half carrying her , they made their way to the clearing . 
She clung to him with all her remaining strength , but open her eyes she would not until her children came clustering around her . 
Then , brawny , big Scotswoman though she was , she quietly keeled over again . 
The children added their wailing to Freckles' panic . 
This time he was so close the cabin that he could carry her into the house and lay her on the bed . 
He sent the oldest boy scudding down the corduroy for the nearest neighbor , and between them they undressed Mrs. Duncan and discovered that she was not bitten . 
They bathed and bound the bleeding wrist and coaxed her back to consciousness . 
She lay sobbing and shuddering . 
The first intelligent word she said was Freckles , look at that jar on the kitchen table and see if my yeast is no running ower . 
The effects of her morning on the trail kept her shivering half the time . 
She could not rest until she sent for McLean and begged him to save Freckles from further risk , in that place of horrors . 
The Boss went to the swamp with his mind fully determined to do so . 
Freckles stood and laughed at him . 
Why , Mr. McLean , don't you let a woman's nervous system set you worrying about me , he said . 
I'm not denying how she felt , because I've been through it meself , but that's all over and gone . 
You couldn't break the heart of me entire quicker than to be taking it from me now , when I'm just on the home stretch . 
What about that last tree ? he said . 
Freckles blushed and grinned appreciatively . 
Angels and Bird Women don't count in the common run , sir , he affirmed shamelessly . 
McLean sat in the saddle and laughed . 
The Boss was filled with enthusiasm over a marsh article of the Bird Woman's that he just had read . 
He begged to be allowed to accompany her into the swamp and watch the method by which she secured an illustration in such a location . 
The Bird Woman told them that they might practice in Freckles' room until she finished with Little Chicken , and then she and McLean would come to the concert . 
It was almost three hours before they finished and came down the west trail for their rest and lunch . 
McLean walked ahead , keeping sharp watch on the trail and clearing it of fallen limbs from overhanging trees . 
He sent a big piece of bark flying into the swale , and then stopped short and stared at the trail . 
The Bird Woman bent forward . 
Together they studied that imprint of the Angel's foot . 
At last their eyes met , the Bird Woman's filled with astonishment , and McLean's humid with pity . 
Neither said a word , but they knew . 
McLean entered the swale and hunted up the bark . 
He replaced it , and the Bird Woman carefully stepped over . 
As they reached the bushes at the entrance , the voice of the Angel stopped them , for it was commanding and filled with much impatience . 
Freckles James Ross McLean ! she was saying . 
You fill me with dark blue despair ! You're singing as if your voice were glass and might break at any minute . 
Why don't you sing as you did a week ago ? Answer me that , please . 
Freckles smiled confusedly at the Angel , who sat on one of his fancy seats , playing his accompaniment on her banjo . 
You are a fraud , she said . 
I'm thinking I'm too happy to be singing well today . 
The music don't come right only when I'm lonesome and sad . 
The world's for being all sunshine at prisint , for among you and Mr. McLean and the Bird Woman I'm after being THAT happy that I can't keep me thoughts on me notes . 
It's more than sorry I am to be disappointing you . 
Play it over , and I'll be beginning again , and this time I'll hold hard . 
Why , a whole worldful of things , cried the Angel explosively . 
For one thing , you can be good and proud over the way you've kept the timber thieves out of this lease , and the trust your father has in you . 
You can be proud that you've never even once disappointed him or failed in what he believed you could do . 
This swamp is named for a man that was lost here and wandered around til he starved . 
Proud ! Why , I should think you would just parade around about proper over that ! And you can always be proud that you are born an Irishman . 
My father is Irish , and if you want to see him get up and strut give him a teeny opening to enlarge on his race . 
He says that if the Irish had decent territory they'd lead the world . 
He says they've always been handicapped by lack of space and of fertile soil . 
He says if Ireland had been as big and fertile as Indiana , why , England wouldn't ever have had the upper hand . 
She'd only be an appendage . 
I don't know just exactly what they are , but Ireland has all there are , anyway . 
They've a lot of great actors , and a few singers , and there never was a sweeter poet than one of theirs . 
You should hear my father recite Dear Harp of My Country . 
He does it this way . 
That's what you want to be thinking of ! she cried . 
Not darkness , and lonesomeness , and sadness , but light , freedom , and song . 
I just despise that saddest when I sing' business . 
Her eyes were flashing and she was palpitating with earnestness . 
She parted the bushes and disappeared . 
Freckles , straight and tense , stood waiting . 
Presently , before he saw she was there , she was coming down the aisle toward him , playing compellingly , and rifts of light were touching her with golden glory . 
Freckles stood as if transfixed . 
But the fair young face and divinely molded form of the Angel were His most perfect work of all . 
Never had she appeared so surpassingly beautiful . 
She was smiling encouragingly now , and as she came toward him , she struck the chords full and strong . 
The heart of poor Freckles almost burst with dull pain and his great love for her . 
In his desire to fulfill her expectations he forgot everything else , and when she reached his initial chord he was ready . 
He literally burst forth Three little leaves of Irish green , United on one stem , Love , truth , and valor do they mean , They form a magic gem . 
The Angel's eyes widened curiously and her lips parted . 
A deep color swept into her cheeks . 
She had intended to arouse him . 
She had more than succeeded . 
She was too young to know that in the effort to rouse a man , women frequently kindle fires that they neither can quench nor control . 
When he struck into the chorus , wide eyed and panting , she was swaying toward him and playing with all her might . 
Oh , do you love ? Oh , say you love You love the shamrock green ! At the last note , Freckles' voice ceased and he looked at the Angel . 
He had given his best and his all . 
He fell on his knees and folded his arms across his breast . 
Then she stepped back and faced him . 
Good boy ! she said , in a voice that wavered from the throbbing of her shaken heart . 
Anything , said the Angel . 
Freckles arose , muttered something , and catching up his old bucket , plunged into the swamp blindly on a pretence of bringing water . 
The Angel walked slowly across the study , sat on the rustic bench , and , through narrowed lids , intently studied the tip of her shoe . 
On the trail the Bird Woman wheeled to McLean with a dumbfounded look . 
At last the Bird Woman spoke . 
Do you think the Angel knew she did that ? she asked softly . 
No , said McLean I do not . 
But the poor boy knew it . 
Heaven help him ! The Bird Woman stared across the gently waving swale . 
I don't see how I am going to blame her , she said at last . 
It's so exactly what I would have done myself . 
Say the remainder , demanded McLean hoarsely . 
He was born a gentleman , conceded the Bird Woman . 
He never even offered to touch her . 
Whatever that kiss meant to him , he recognized that it was the loving impulse of a child under stress of strong emotion . 
He was fine and manly as any man ever could have been . 
Thank you , he said simply , and parted the bushes for her to enter Freckles' room . 
It was her first visit . 
Before she left she sent for her cameras and made studies of each side of it and of the cathedral . 
She was entranced with the delicate beauty of the place , while her eyes kept following Freckles as if she could not believe that it could be his conception and work . 
That was a happy day . 
The Bird Woman had brought a lunch , and they spread it , with Freckles' dinner , on the study floor and sat , resting and enjoying themselves . 
But the Angel put her banjo into its case , silently gathered her music , and no one mentioned the concert . 
Some of his specimens were so rare that she was unfamiliar with them , and with the flower book between them they knelt , studying the different varieties . 
She wandered the length of the cathedral aisle with him , and it was at her suggestion that he lighted his altar with a row of flaming foxfire . 
As Freckles came to the cabin from his long day at the swamp he saw Mrs. Chicken sweeping to the south and wondered where she was going . 
He stepped into the bright , cosy little kitchen , and as he reached down the wash basin he asked Mrs. Duncan a question . 
Mother Duncan , do kisses wash off ? So warm a wave swept her heart that a half flush mantled her face . 
She straightened her shoulders and glanced at her hands tenderly . 
Lord , na ! Freckles , she cried . 
At least , the anes ye get from people ye love dinna . 
They dinna stay on the outside . 
I've something at the swamp that I'm believing never happened before , and surely she'll be wanting it . 
What now , Freckles ? asked Mrs. Duncan . 
Why , the oddest thing you ever heard of , said Freckles the whole insect tribe gone on a spree . 
I'm supposing it's my doings , but it all happened by accident , like . 
You see , on the swale side of the line , right against me trail , there's one of these scrub wild crabtrees . 
Where the grass grows thick around it , is the finest place you ever conceived of for snakes . 
Having women about has set me trying to clean out those fellows a bit , and yesterday I noticed that tree in passing . 
It struck me that it would be a good idea to be taking it out . 
First I thought I'd take me hatchet and cut it down , for it ain't thicker than me upper arm . 
Then I remembered how it was blooming in the spring and filling all the air with sweetness . 
The coloring of the blossoms is beautiful , and I hated to be killing it . 
I just cut the grass short all around it . 
Then I started at the ground , trimmed up the trunk near the height of me shoulder , and left the top spreading . 
In this hot sun it ferments in a few hours . 
There isn't much room for more things to crowd on that tree than there are , and to get drunker isn't noways possible . 
Weel , I be drawed on ! exclaimed Mrs. Duncan . 
What kind of things do ye mean , Freckles ? Why , just an army of black ants . 
Some of them are sucking away like old topers . 
Some of them are setting up on their tails and hind legs , fiddling with their fore feet and wiping their eyes . 
Some are rolling around on the ground , contented . 
The snake feeders are too full to feed anything even more sap to themselves . 
There's a lot of hard backed bugs beetles , I guess colored like the brown , blue , and black of a peacock's tail . 
They hang on until the legs of them are so wake they can't stick a minute longer , and then they break away and fall to the ground . 
They just lay there on their backs , fably clawing air . 
When it wears off a bit , up they get , and go crawling back for more , and they so full they bump into each other and roll over . 
Sometimes they can't climb the tree until they wait to sober up a little . 
There's a lot of big black and gold bumblebees , done for entire , stumbling over the bark and rolling on the ground . 
They just lay there on their backs , rocking from side to side , singing to themselves like fat , happy babies . 
The wild bees keep up a steady buzzing with the beating of their wings . 
The butterflies are the worst old topers of them all . 
They're just a circus ! You never saw the like of the beauties ! They come every color you could be naming , and every shape you could be thinking up . 
They drink and drink until , if I'm driving them away , they stagger as they fly and turn somersaults in the air . 
I never heard of anything sae surprising , said Mrs. Duncan . 
It's a rare sight to watch them , and no one ever made a picture of a thing like that before , I'm for thinking , said Freckles earnestly . 
Na , said Mrs. Duncan . 
Ye can be pretty sure there didna . 
The Bird Woman must have word in some way , if ye walk the line and I walk to town and tell her . 
If ye think ye can wait until after supper , I am most sure ye can gang yoursel' , for Duncan is coming home and he'd be glad to watch for ye . 
If he does na come , and na ane passes that I can send word with today , I really will gang early in the morning and tell her mysel' . 
Freckles took his lunch and went to the swamp . 
He walked and watched eagerly . 
He could find no trace of anything , yet he felt a tense nervousness , as if trouble might be brooding . 
He tilted his hat brim to shade his face and looked for his chickens . 
They were hanging almost beyond sight in the sky . 
If I only had your sharp eyes and convenient location now , I wouldn't need be troubling so . 
He reached his room and cautiously scanned the entrance before he stepped in . 
Then he pushed the bushes apart with his right arm and entered , his left hand on the butt of his favorite revolver . 
Instantly he knew that someone had been there . 
He stepped to the center of the room , closely scanning each wall and the floor . 
He could find no trace of a clue to confirm his belief , yet so intimate was he with the spirit of the place that he knew . 
How he knew he could not have told , yet he did know that someone had entered his room , sat on his benches , and walked over his floor . 
He was surest around the case . 
Nothing was disturbed , yet it seemed to Freckles that he could see where prying fingers had tried the lock . 
His heart tugged in his breast as he mentally measured the print , but he did not linger , for now the feeling arose that he was being watched . 
It seemed to him that he could feel the eyes of some intruder at his back . 
He knew he was examining things too closely if anyone were watching , he did not want him to know that he felt it . 
He unlocked his case , took out his wheel , and for the remainder of the day he rode and watched as he never had before . 
Several times he locked the wheel and crossed the swamp on foot , zigzagging to cover all the space possible . 
Every rod he traveled he used the caution that sprang from knowledge of danger and the direction from which it probably would come . 
Several times he thought of sending for McLean , but for his life he could not make up his mind to do it with nothing more tangible than one footprint to justify him . 
He waited until he was sure Duncan would be at home , if he were coming for the night , before he went to supper . 
The first thing he saw as he crossed the swale was the big bays in the yard . 
There had been no one passing that day , and Duncan readily agreed to watch until Freckles rode to town . 
He told Duncan of the footprint , and urged him to guard closely . 
Duncan said he might rest easy , and filling his pipe and taking a good revolver , the big man went to the Limberlost . 
Freckles made himself clean and neat , and raced to town , but it was night and the stars were shining before he reached the home of the Bird Woman . 
From afar he could see that the house was ablaze with lights . 
The lawn and veranda were strung with fancy lanterns and alive with people . 
He thought his errand important , so to turn back never occurred to Freckles . 
This was all the time or opportunity he would have . 
He must see the Bird Woman , and see her at once . 
He leaned his wheel inside the fence and walked up the broad front entrance . 
Oh Freckles ! she cried delightedly . 
So you could come ? We were so afraid you could not ! I'm as glad as I can be ! I don't understand , said Freckles . 
Were you expecting me ? Why of course ! exclaimed the Angel . 
Haven't you come to my party ? Didn't you get my invitation ? I sent you one . 
By mail ? asked Freckles . 
Yes , said the Angel . 
I told them at the office to put it with Mr. Duncan's mail . 
Then that's likely where it is at present , said Freckles . 
Duncan comes to town only once a week , and at times not that . 
He's home tonight for the first in a week . 
He's watching an hour for me until I come to the Bird Woman with a bit of work I thought she'd be caring to hear about bad . 
Is she where I can see her ? The Angel's face clouded . 
What a disappointment ! she cried . 
I did so want all my friends to know you . 
You know I cannot , Angel , he said . 
I am afraid I do , she said ruefully . 
It's too bad ! But there is a thing I want for you more than to come to my party , and that is to hang on and win with your work . 
I think of you every day , and I just pray that those thieves are not getting ahead of you . 
If she did not mind , why should he ? Anyway , if they really were the Angel's friends , probably they were better accustomed to her ways than he . 
Her face and bared neck and arms were like the wild rose bloom . 
Her soft frock of white tulle lifted and stirred around her with the gentle evening air . 
The beautiful golden hair , that crept around her temples and ears as if it loved to cling there , was caught back and bound with broad blue satin ribbon . 
There was a sash of blue at her waist , and knots of it catching up her draperies . 
Must I go after the Bird Woman ? she pleaded . 
Indade , you must , answered Freckles firmly . 
The Angel went away , but returned to say that the Bird Woman was telling a story to those inside and she could not come for a short time . 
You won't come in ? she pleaded . 
I must not , said Freckles . 
I am not dressed to be among your friends , and I might be forgetting meself and stay too long . 
Won't that be fun ? Freckles thought that it would be more than fun , and followed delightedly . 
The night was warm , and the Angel most beautiful and kind . 
A triple delirium of spirit , mind , and body seized upon him and developed a boldness all unnatural . 
He slightly parted the heavy curtains that separated the conservatory from the company and looked between . 
He had read of things like that , but he never had seen them . 
The open space seemed to stretch through half a dozen rooms , all ablaze with lights , perfumed with flowers , and filled with elegantly dressed people . 
There were glimpses of polished floors , sparkling glass , and fine furnishings . 
From somewhere , the voice of his beloved Bird Woman arose and fell . 
The Angel crowded beside him and was watching also . 
Doesn't it look pretty ? she whispered . 
Do you suppose Heaven is any finer than that ? asked Freckles . 
The Angel began to laugh . 
Do you want to be laughing harder than that ? queried Freckles . 
A laugh is always good , said the Angel . 
A little more avoirdupois won't hurt me . 
Well then , said Freckles , it's only that I feel all over as if I belonged there . 
I could wear fine clothes , and move over those floors , and hold me own against the best of them . 
But where does my laugh come in ? demanded the Angel , as if she had been defrauded . 
And you ask me where the laugh comes in , looking me in the face after that , marveled Freckles . 
I wouldn't be so foolish as to laugh at such a manifest truth as that , said the Angel . 
Anyone who knows you even half as well as I do , knows that you are never guilty of a discourtesy , and you move with twice the grace of any man here . 
Why shouldn't you feel as if you belonged where people are graceful and courteous ? On me soul ! said Freckles , you are kind to be thinking it . 
You are doubly kind to be saying it . 
The curtains parted and a woman came toward them . 
Her silks and laces trailed across the polished floors . 
The lights gleamed on her neck and arms , and flashed from rare jewels . 
She was smiling brightly and until she spoke , Freckles had not realized fully that it was his loved Bird Woman . 
Noticing his bewilderment , she cried Why , Freckles ! Don't you know me in my war clothes ? I do in the uniform in which you fight the Limberlost , said Freckles . 
Then he told her why he had come , but she scarcely could believe him . 
She could not say exactly when she would go , but she would make it as soon as possible , for she was most anxious for the study . 
While they talked , the Angel was busy packing a box of sandwiches , cake , fruit , and flowers . 
She gave him a last frosty glass , thanked him repeatedly for bringing news of new material then Freckles went into the night . 
He rode toward the Limberlost with his eyes on the stars . 
Presently he removed his hat , hung it to his belt , and ruffled his hair to the sweep of the night wind . 
He filled the air all the way with snatches of oratorios , gospel hymns , and dialect and coon songs , in a startlingly varied programme . 
The one thing Freckles knew that he could do was to sing . 
The Duncans heard him coming a mile up the corduroy and could not believe their senses . 
He put the flowers back in the box and set it among his books . 
He did not say anything , but they understood it was not to be touched . 
Thae's Freckles' flow'rs , said a tiny Scotsman , but , he added cheerfully , it's oor sweeties ! Freckles' face slowly flushed as he took Duncan's cake and started toward the swamp . 
Then Freckles mounted his wheel and began a spin that terminated only when the biggest Plymouth Rock in Duncan's coop saluted a new day , and long lines of light reddened the east . 
As he rode he sang , while he sang he worshiped , but the god he tried to glorify was a dim and faraway mystery . 
The Angel was warm flesh and blood . 
Every time he passed the little bark covered imprint on the trail he dismounted , removed his hat , solemnly knelt and laid his lips on the impression . 
With the near approach of dawn Freckles tuned his last note . 
Wearied almost to falling , he turned from the trail into the path leading to the cabin for a few hours' rest . 
Two of them carried a big saw , the third , coils of rope and wire , and all of them were heavily armed . 
They left one man on guard at the entrance . 
The other three made their way through the darkness as best they could , and were soon at Freckles' room . 
He had left the swamp on his wheel from the west trail . 
They counted on his returning on the wheel and circling the east line before he came there . 
Then he obliterated all signs of his work , and arranged the grass over the wire until it was so completely covered that only minute examination would reveal it . 
They entered Freckles' room with coarse oaths and jests . 
In a few moments , his specimen case with its precious contents was rolled into the swamp , while the saw was eating into one of the finest trees of the Limberlost . 
The first report from the man on watch was that Duncan had driven to the South camp the second , that Freckles was coming . 
The man watching was sent to see on which side the boy turned into the path as they had expected , he took the east . 
He was a little tired and his head was rather stupid , for he had not been able to sleep as he had hoped , but he was very happy . 
Although he watched until his eyes ached , he could see no sign of anyone having entered the swamp . 
He called a cheery greeting to all his chickens . 
At Sleepy Snake Creek he almost fell from his wheel with surprise the saw bird was surrounded by four lanky youngsters clamoring for breakfast . 
The father was strutting with all the importance of a drum major . 
It was only a few moments before the signal came . 
Then the saw stopped , and the rope was brought out and uncoiled close to a sapling . 
Wessner and Black Jack crowded to the very edge of the swamp a little above the wire , and crouched , waiting . 
They heard Freckles before they saw him . 
He came gliding down the line swiftly , and as he rode he was singing softly Oh , do you love , Oh , say you love He got no farther . 
The sharply driven wheel struck the tense wire and bounded back . 
Freckles shot over the handlebar and coasted down the trail on his chest . 
As he struck , Black Jack and Wessner were upon him . 
Wessner caught off an old felt hat and clapped it over Freckles' mouth , while Black Jack twisted the boy's arms behind him and they rushed him into his room . 
Almost before he realized that anything had happened , he was trussed to a tree and securely gagged . 
Then three of the men resumed work on the tree . 
All the time the saw was slowly eating , eating into the big tree . 
Wessner went to the trail and removed the wire . 
Then he came and stood in front of Freckles and laughed in devilish hate . 
To his own amazement , Freckles found himself looking fear in the face , and marveled that he was not afraid . 
If they secured that tree , McLean lost its value , lost his wager , and lost his faith in him . 
The words of the Angel hammered in his ears . 
Oh , Freckles , do watch closely ! The saw worked steadily . 
When the tree was down and loaded , what would they do ? Pull out , and leave him there to report them ? It was not to be hoped for . 
The place always had been lawless . 
It could mean but one thing . 
A mist swept before his eyes , while his head swam . 
Black Jack stopped him , with an oath . 
You see here , Dutchy , he bawled , mebby you think you'll wash his face with that , but you won't . 
We agreed to take out these trees and leave him for you to dispose of whatever way you please , provided you shut him up eternally on this deal . 
But I'll not see a tied man tormented by a fellow that he can lick up the ground with , loose , and that's flat . 
It raises my gorge to think what he'll get when we're gone , but you needn't think you're free to begin before . 
Don't you lay a hand on him while I'm here ! What do you say , boys ? I say yes , growled one of McLean's latest deserters . 
What's more , we're a pack of fools to risk the dirty work of silencing him . 
I'm not up to it . 
I don't mind lifting trees we came for , but I'm cursed if I want blood on my hands . 
Well , you ain't going to get it , bellowed Jack . 
You fellows only contracted to help me get out my marked trees . 
He belong to Wessner , and it ain't in our deal what happens to him . 
Yes , and if Wessner finishes him safely , we are practically in for murder as well as stealing the trees and if he don't , all hell's to pay . 
I think you've made a damnable bungle of this thing that's what I think ! Then keep your thoughts to yourself , cried Jack . 
We're doing this , and it's all planned safe and sure . 
As for killing that buck come to think of it , killing is what he needs . 
He's away too good for this world of woe , anyhow . 
I tell you , it's all safe enough . 
His dropping out won't be the only secret the old Limberlost has never told . 
It's too dead easy to make it look like he helped take the timber and then cut . 
Why , he's played right into our hands . 
He was here at the swamp all last night , and back again in an hour or so . 
When we get our plan worked out , even old fool Duncan won't lift a finger to look for his carcass . 
We couldn't have him going in better shape . 
You just bet , said Wessner . 
I owe him all he'll get , and be damned to you , but I'll pay ! he snarled at Freckles . 
So it was killing , then . 
They were not only after this one tree , but many , and with his body it was their plan to kill his honor . 
Then he gathered his forces and thought swiftly . 
There was no hope of McLean's coming . 
They had chosen a day when they knew he had a big contract at the South camp . 
The Boss could not come before tomorrow by any possibility , and there would be no tomorrow for the boy . 
Duncan was on his way to the South camp , and the Bird Woman had said she would come as soon as she could . 
What would he think of this ? The sweat broke on Freckles' forehead . 
He tugged at the ropes whenever he felt that he dared , but they were passed around the tree and his body several times , and knotted on his chest . 
There was no hope , no help . 
He would go out bonnily . 
Never would he let them see , if he grew afraid . 
They could not do that ! The Angel would not believe . 
He would keep up his courage . 
Kill him they could dishonor him they could not . 
Yet , summon all the fortitude he might , that saw eating into the tree rasped his nerves worse and worse . 
With whirling brain he gazed into the Limberlost , searching for something , he knew not what , and in blank horror found his eyes focusing on the Angel . 
She was quite a distance away , but he could see her white lips and angry expression . 
Last week he had taken her and the Bird Woman across the swamp over the path he followed in going from his room to the chicken tree . 
He had told them the night before , that the butterfly tree was on the line close to this path . 
In figuring on their not coming that day , he failed to reckon with the enthusiasm of the Bird Woman . 
They must be there for the study , and the Angel had risked crossing the swamp in search of him . 
Or was there something in his room they needed ? The blood surged in his ears as the roar of the Limberlost in the wrath of a storm . 
He looked again , and it had been a dream . 
Or was it not the kindest ? Now he could go with the vision of her lovely face fresh with him . 
Thank You for that , oh God ! whispered Freckles . 
Freckles swayed forward and wrenched at the rope until it cut deeply into his body . 
Hell ! cried Black Jack . 
Who is that ? Do you know ? Freckles nodded . 
Jack whipped out a revolver and snatched the gag from Freckles' mouth . 
They ain't due here for five days yet , said Wessner . 
We got on to that last week . 
She said she'd come soon , but she didn't say when . 
I take care of the girl while the Bird Woman works . 
Untie me quick until she is gone . 
I'll try to send her back , and then you can go on with your dirty work . 
He ain't lying , volunteered Wessner . 
I saw that tree covered with butterflies and him watching around it when we were spying on him yesterday . 
No , he leaves lying to your sort , snapped Black Jack , as he undid the rope and pitched it across the room . 
Remember that you're covered every move you make , my buck , he cautioned . 
Freckles ! Freckles ! came the Angel's impatient voice , closer and closer . 
I must be answering , said Freckles , and Jack nodded . 
Right here ! he called , and to the men You go on with your work , and remember one thing yourselves . 
The work of the Bird Woman is known all over the world . 
This girl's father is a rich man , and she is all he has . 
If you offer hurt of any kind to either of them , this world has no place far enough away or dark enough for you to be hiding in . 
Hell will be easy to what any man will get if he touches either of them ! Freckles , where are you ? demanded the Angel . 
Soulsick with fear for her , Freckles went toward her and parted the bushes that she might enter . 
Or is this some especial tree that Mr. McLean needs to fill an order right now ? Freckles hesitated . 
Would a man dare lie to save himself ? No. But to save the Angel surely that was different . 
He opened his lips , but the Angel was capable of saving herself . 
She walked among them , exactly as if she had been reared in a lumber camp , and never waited for an answer . 
Why , your specimen case ! she cried . 
Look ! Haven't you noticed that it's tipped over ? Set it straight , quickly ! A couple of the men stepped out and carefully righted the case . 
There ! That's better , she said . 
Freckles , I'm surprised at your being so careless . 
Like those they make dining tables and sideboards from ? Yes . 
My ! How interesting ! she cried . 
I don't know a thing about timber , but my father wants me to learn just everything I can . 
I am going to ask him to let me come here and watch you until I know enough to boss a gang myself . 
Do you like to cut trees , gentlemen ? she asked with angelic sweetness of the men . 
Some of them appeared foolish and some grim , but one managed to say they did . 
Then the Angel's eyes turned full on Black Jack , and she gave the most natural little start of astonishment . 
Oh ! I almost thought that you were a ghost ! she cried . 
But I see now that you are really and truly . 
Were you ever in Colorado ? No , said Jack . 
I see you aren't the same man , said the Angel . 
You know , we were in Colorado last year , and there was a cowboy who was the handsomest man anywhere around . 
The men began to laugh while Jack flushed crimson . 
The Angel joined in the laugh . 
Well , I'll leave it to you ! Isn't he handsome ? she challenged . 
As for that cowboy's face , it couldn't be compared with yours . 
The only trouble with you is that your clothes are spoiling you . 
It's the dress those cowboys wear that makes half their attraction . 
If you were properly clothed , you could break the heart of the prettiest girl in the country . 
I'll tell you what ! exclaimed the Angel . 
I'd just love to see you on horseback . 
Nothing sets a handsome man off so splendidly . 
Do you ride ? Yes , said Jack , and his eyes were burning on the Angel as if he would fathom the depths of her soul . 
Well , said the Angel winsomely , I know what I just wish you'd do . 
I wish you would let your hair grow a little longer . 
Then wear a blue flannel shirt a little open at the throat , a red tie , and a broad brimmed felt hat , and ride past my house of evenings . 
She was looking straight into Jack's face , coarse and hardened with sin and careless living , which was now taking on a wholly different expression . 
The evil lines of it were softening and fading under her clear gaze . 
A dull red flamed into his bronze cheeks , while his eyes were growing brightly tender . 
Yes , he said , and the glance he gave the men was of such a nature that no one saw fit even to change countenance . 
Oh , goody ! she cried , tilting on her toes . 
I'll ask all the girls to come see , but they needn't stick in ! We can get along without them , can't we ? Jack leaned toward her . 
He was the charmed fluttering bird , while the Angel was the snake . 
Well , I rather guess ! he cried . 
The Angel drew a deep breath and surveyed him rapturously . 
My , but you're tall ! she commented . 
Do you suppose I ever will grow to reach your shoulders ? She stood on tiptoe and measured the distance with her eyes . 
Then she developed timid confusion , while her glance sought the ground . 
I wish I could do something , she half whispered . 
Jack seemed to increase an inch in height . 
What ? he asked hoarsely . 
Lariat Bill used always to have a bunch of red flowers in his shirt pocket . 
The red lit up his dark eyes and olive cheeks and made him splendid . 
May I put some red flowers on you ? Freckles stared as he wheezed for breath . 
He wished the earth would open and swallow him . 
Was he dead or alive ? Since his Angel had seen Black Jack she never had glanced his way . 
Of course you must ! She was his Angel . 
She must have seen ! His life , and what was far more , her own , was in her hands . 
There was nothing he could do but trust her . 
Surely she was working out some plan . 
The Angel knelt beside his flower bed and recklessly tore up by the roots a big bunch of foxfire . 
These stems are so tough and sticky , she said . 
Loan me your knife , she ordered Freckles . 
As she reached for the knife , her back was for one second toward the men . 
She looked into his eyes and deliberately winked . 
She severed the stems , tossed the knife to Freckles , and walking to Jack , laid the flowers over his heart . 
Freckles broke into a sweat of agony . 
He had said she would be safe in a herd of howling savages . 
Would she ? If Black Jack even made a motion toward touching her , Freckles knew that from somewhere he would muster the strength to kill him . 
He mentally measured the distance to where his club lay and set his muscles for a spring . 
But no by the splendor of God ! The big fellow was baring his head with a hand that was unsteady . 
The Angel pulled one of the long silver pins from her hat and fastened her flowers securely . 
I can't wait very long . 
The Bird Woman will be ready to start , and she will come here hunting me next , for she is busy today . 
What did I come here for anyway ? She glanced inquiringly around , and several of the men laughed . 
Oh , the delight of it ! She had forgotten her errand for him ! Jack had a second increase in height . 
The Angel glanced helplessly as if seeking a clue . 
Then her eyes fell , as if by accident , on Freckles , and she cried , Oh , I know now ! It was those magazines the Bird Woman promised you . 
I came to tell you that we put them under the box where we hide things , at the entrance to the swamp as we came in . 
I knew I would need my hands crossing the swamp , so I hid them there . 
You'll find them at the same old place . 
It's mighty risky for you to be crossing the swamp alone , he said . 
I'm surprised that the Bird Woman would be letting you try it . 
I know it's a little farther , but it's begging you I am to be going back by the trail . 
That's bad enough , but it's far safer than the swamp . 
Oh stop your nonsense ! she cried . 
On the trail you can see your way a bit ahead , and you've all the world a better chance if you meet a snake . 
Then Freckles had an inspiration . 
He turned to Jack imploringly . 
You tell her ! he pleaded . 
Tell her to go by the trail . 
The implication of this statement was so gratifying to Black Jack that he seemed again to expand and take on increase before their very eyes . 
You bet ! exclaimed Jack . 
And to the Angel You better take Freckles' word for it , miss . 
He knows the old swamp better than any of us , except me , and if he says go by the trail , you'd best do it . 
She wanted to recross the swamp and try to reach the horse . 
She knew Freckles would brave any danger to save her crossing the swamp alone , but she really was not afraid , while the trail added over a mile to the walk . 
One last glance at Freckles showed her the agony in his eyes , and immediately she imagined he had some other reason . 
She would follow the trail . 
All right , she said , giving Jack a thrilling glance . 
If you say so , I'll return by the trail to please you . 
She lifted the bushes and started toward the entrance . 
You damned fool ! Stop her ! growled Wessner . 
Keep her till we're loaded , anyhow . 
You're playing hell ! Can't you see that when this thing is found out , there she'll be to ruin all of us . 
If you let her go , every man of us has got to cut , and some of us will be caught sure . 
Freckles' heart muffled in his throat . 
The Angel seemed to divine Jack's coming . 
She was humming a little song . 
She deliberately stopped and began pulling the heads of the curious grasses that grew all around her . 
When she straightened , she took a step backward and called Ho ! Freckles , the Bird Woman wants that natural history pamphlet returned . 
It belongs to a set she is going to have bound . 
That's one of the reasons we put it under the box . 
You be sure to get them as you go home tonight , for fear it rains or becomes damp with the heavy dews . 
All right , said Freckles , but it was in a voice that he never had heard before . 
Then the Angel turned and sent a parting glance at Jack . 
She was overpoweringly human and bewitchingly lovely . 
You won't forget that ride and the red tie , she half asserted , half questioned . 
Freckles was his captive , but he was the Angel's , soul and body . 
His face wore the holiest look it ever had known as he softly re echoed Freckles' All right . 
With her head held well up , the Angel walked slowly away , and Jack turned to the men . 
Drop your damned staring and saw wood , he shouted . 
The men muttered and threatened among themselves , but they began working desperately . 
Someone suggested that a man be sent to follow the Angel and to watch her and the Bird Woman leave the swamp . 
Freckles' heart sank within him , but Jack was in a delirium and past all caution . 
Mebby all of you had better give over on the saw and run after the girl . 
I guess not ! Seems to me I got the favors . 
I didn't see no bouquets on the rest of you ! If anybody follows her , I do , and I'm needed here among such a pack of idiots . 
There's no danger in that baby face . 
She wouldn't give me away ! You double and work like forty , while me and Wessner will take the axes and begin to cut in on the other side . 
What about the noise ? asked Wessner . 
No difference about the noise , answered Jack . 
She took us to be from McLean's gang , slick as grease . 
Make the chips fly ! So all of them attacked the big tree . 
Freckles sat on one of his benches and waited . 
In their haste to fell the tree and load it , so that the teamsters could start , and leave them free to attack another , they had forgotten to rebind him . 
The Angel was on the trail and safely started . 
The cold perspiration made Freckles' temples clammy and ran in little streams down his chest . 
It would take her more time to follow the trail , but her safety was Freckles' sole thought in urging her to go that way . 
He tried to figure on how long it would require to walk to the carriage . 
He wondered if the Bird Woman had unhitched . 
He followed the Angel every step of the way . 
He figured on when she would cross the path of the clearing , pass the deep pool where his find out frog lived , cross Sleepy Snake Creek , and reach the carriage . 
He wondered what she would say to the Bird Woman , and how long it would take them to pack and start . 
He knew now that they would understand , and the Angel would try to get the Boss there in time to save his wager . 
She could never do it , for the saw was over half through , and Jack and Wessner cutting into the opposite side of the tree . 
It appeared as if they could fell at least that tree , before McLean could come , and if they did he lost his wager . 
Surely he would not run all that risk for one tree , when he had many others of far greater value marked . 
Freckles felt that he had some hope to cling to now , but he found himself praying that the Angel would hurry . 
Once Jack came to Freckles and asked if he had any water . 
Freckles arose and showed him where he kept his drinking water . 
Blest if I blame you , he said . 
But you had your chance ! We offered you a fair thing and you gave Wessner his answer . 
I ain't envying you when he gives you his . 
You're six to one , answered Freckles . 
When the mighty tree fell , the Limberlost shivered and screamed with the echo . 
Freckles groaned in despair , but the gang took heart . 
That was so much accomplished . 
They knew where to dispose of it safely , with no questions asked . 
Before the day was over , they could remove three others , all suitable for veneer and worth far more than this . 
Then they would leave Freckles to Wessner and scatter for safety , with more money than they had ever hoped for in their possession . 
Then she gathered her skirts above her knees and leaped forward on the run . 
In the first three yards she passed Freckles' wheel . 
Instantly she imagined that was why he had insisted on her coming by the trail . 
She seized it and sprang on . 
The saddle was too high , but she was an expert rider and could catch the pedals as they came up . 
Even with her fear for Freckles to spur her , Sarah Duncan blanched and began shivering at the idea of facing the Limberlost . 
The Angel looked her in the eyes . 
No matter how afraid you are , you have to go , she said . 
If you don't the Bird Woman will go to Freckles' room , hunting me , and they will have trouble with her . 
If she isn't told to leave at once , they may follow me , and , finding I'm gone , do some terrible thing to Freckles . 
I can't go that's flat for if they caught me , then there'd be no one to go for help . 
You run , and run for life ! For Freckles' life ! You can ride back with the Bird Woman . 
The Angel saw Mrs. Duncan started then began her race . 
Those awful miles of corduroy ! Would they never end ? She did not dare use the wheel too roughly , for if it broke she never could arrive on time afoot . 
Where her way was impassable for the wheel , she jumped off , and pushing it beside her or carrying it , she ran as fast as she could . 
The day was fearfully warm . 
The sun poured with the fierce baking heat of August . 
The bushes claimed her hat , and she did not stop for it . 
Where it was at all possible , the Angel mounted and pounded over the corduroy again . 
She was panting for breath and almost worn out when she reached the level pike . 
She had no idea how long she had been and only two miles covered . 
She leaned over the bars , almost standing on the pedals , racing with all the strength in her body . 
The blood surged in her ears while her head swam , but she kept a straight course , and rode and rode . 
It seemed to her that she was standing still , while the trees and houses were racing past her . 
At last she lifted her head . 
Surely it could not be over a mile more . 
She had covered two of corduroy and at least three of gravel , and it was only six in all . 
She was reeling in the saddle , but she gripped the bars with new energy , and raced desperately . 
The sun beat on her bare head and hands . 
Just when she was choking with dust , and almost prostrate with heat and exhaustion crash , she ran into a broken bottle . 
Snap ! went the tire the wheel swerved and pitched over . 
The Angel rolled into the thick yellow dust of the road and lay quietly . 
From afar , Duncan began to notice a strange , dust covered object in the road , as he headed toward town with the first load of the day's felling . 
He chirruped to the bays and hurried them all he could . 
As he neared the Angel , he saw it was a woman and a broken wheel . 
He was beside her in an instant . 
Many of the farmers' daughters owned and rode them , but he knew these same farmers' daughters this face was a stranger's . 
He glanced at the Angel's tumbled clothing , the silkiness of her hair , with its pale satin ribbon , and noticed that she had lost her hat . 
Her lips tightened in an ominous quiver . 
He left her and picked up the wheel as he had surmised , he knew it . 
This , then , was Freckles' Swamp Angel . 
There was trouble in the Limberlost , and she had broken down racing to McLean . 
He found a woman , who took a bottle of camphor , a jug of water , and some towels , and started on the run . 
Then Duncan put the bay to speed and raced to camp . 
The Angel , left alone , lay still for a second , then she shivered and opened her eyes . 
She saw that she was on the grass and the broken wheel beside her . 
Instantly she realized that someone had carried her there and gone after help . 
She sat up and looked around . 
She noticed the load of logs and the one horse . 
Someone was riding after help for her ! Oh , poor Freckles ! she wailed . 
They may be killing him by now . 
Oh , how much time have I wasted ? She hurried to the other bay , her fingers flying as she set him free . 
He was frightened , and ran at top speed . 
The Angel passed a wildly waving , screaming woman on the road , and a little later a man riding as if he , too , were in great haste . 
The man called to her , but she only lay lower and used the whip . 
Soon the feet of the man's horse sounded farther and farther away . 
They're going to kill him ! She wheeled the horse toward the Limberlost . 
The alarm sounded through camp . 
The gang were not unprepared . 
McLean sprang to Nellie's back and raced after the Angel . 
As they passed Duncan , he wheeled and followed . 
Soon the pike was an irregular procession of barebacked riders , wildly driving flying horses toward the swamp . 
The Boss rode neck and neck with the Angel . 
He repeatedly commanded her to stop and fall out of line , until he remembered that he would need her to lead him to Freckles . 
Then he gave up and rode beside her , for she was sending the bay at as sharp a pace as the other horses could keep and hold out . 
He could see that she was not hearing him . 
He glanced back and saw that Duncan was close . 
There was something terrifying in the appearance of the big man , and the manner in which he sat his beast and rode . 
It would be a sad day for the man on whom Duncan's wrath broke . 
There were four others close behind him , and the pike filling with the remainder of the gang so McLean took heart and raced beside the Angel . 
Over and over he asked her where the trouble was , but she only gripped the hames , leaned along the bay's neck , and slashed away with the blacksnake . 
The steaming horse , with crimson nostrils and heaving sides , stretched out and ran for home with all the speed there was in him . 
When they passed the cabin , the Bird Woman's carriage was there and Mrs. Duncan in the door wringing her hands , but the Bird Woman was nowhere to be seen . 
The Angel sent the bay along the path and turned into the west trail , while the men bunched and followed her . 
When she reached the entrance to Freckles' room , there were four men with her , and two more very close behind . 
She slid from the horse , and snatching the little revolver from her pocket , darted toward the bushes . 
McLean caught them back , and with drawn weapon , pressed beside her . 
There they stopped in astonishment . 
The Bird Woman blocked the entrance . 
Over a small limb lay her revolver . 
It was trained at short range on Black Jack and Wessner , who stood with their hands above their heads . 
Freckles , with the blood trickling down his face , from an ugly cut in his temple , was gagged and bound to the tree again the remainder of the men were gone . 
Black Jack was raving as a maniac , and when they looked closer it was only the left arm that he raised . 
His right , with the hand shattered , hung helpless at his side , while his revolver lay at Freckles' feet . 
Wessner's weapon was in his belt , and beside him Freckles' club . 
Freckles' face was white , with colorless lips , but in his eyes was the strength of undying courage . 
McLean pushed past the Bird Woman crying . 
Hold steady on them only one minute more ! He snatched the revolver from Wessner's belt , and stooped for Jack's . 
At that instant the Angel rushed past . 
She tore the gag from Freckles , and seizing the rope knotted on his chest , she tugged at it desperately . 
Under her fingers it gave way , and she hurled it to McLean . 
The men were crowding in , and Duncan seized Wessner . 
As the Angel saw Freckles stand out , free , she reached her arms to him and pitched forward . 
A fearful oath burst from the lips of Black Jack . 
To have saved his life , Freckles could not have avoided the glance of triumph he gave Jack , when folding the Angel in his arms and stretching her on the mosses . 
The Bird Woman cried out sharply for water as she ran to them . 
Someone sprang to bring that , and another to break open the case for brandy . 
As McLean arose from binding Wessner , there was a cry that Jack was escaping . 
He was already far in the swamp , running for its densest part in leaping bounds . 
Every man who could be spared plunged after him . 
Other members of the gang arriving , were sent to follow the tracks of the wagons . 
The teamsters had driven from the west entrance , and crossing the swale , had taken the same route the Bird Woman and the Angel had before them . 
There had been ample time for the drivers to reach the road after that they could take any one of four directions . 
Traffic was heavy , and lumber wagons were passing almost constantly , so the men turned back and joined the more exciting hunt for a man . 
The remainder of the gang joined them , also farmers of the region and travelers attracted by the disturbance . 
Watchers were set along the trail at short intervals . 
Great is the elasticity of youth . 
A hot bath and a sound night's sleep renewed Freckles' strength , and it needed but little more to work the same result with the Angel . 
Freckles was on the trail early the next morning . 
Besides a crowd of people anxious to witness Jack's capture , he found four stalwart guards , one at each turn . 
In his heart he was compelled to admit that he was glad to have them there . 
Close noon , McLean placed his men in charge of Duncan , and taking Freckles , drove to town to see how the Angel fared . 
McLean visited a greenhouse and bought an armload of its finest products but Freckles would have none of them . 
He would carry his message in a glowing mass of the Limberlost's first goldenrod . 
Though she was sore and stiff , they were having work to keep her in bed . 
Her callers sent up their flowers with their grateful regards , and the Angel promptly returned word that she wanted to see them . 
She reached both hands to McLean . 
I was thinking before you came . 
Those other men were rank big cowards . 
They were scared for their lives . 
If they were the drivers , I wager you gloves against gloves they never took those logs out to the pike . 
Before you feel bad any more , you go look and see if they didn't lose courage the minute they left Wessner and Black Jack , dump that timber and run . 
I don't believe they ever had the grit to drive out with it in daylight . 
Go see if they didn't figure on leaving the way we did the other morning , and you'll find the logs before you reach the road . 
They never risked taking them into the open , when they got away and had time to think . 
Of course they didn't ! And , then , another thing . 
You haven't lost your wager ! It never will be claimed , because you made it with a stout , dark , red faced man who drives a bay and a gray . 
He was right back of you , Mr. McLean , when I came yesterday . 
He went deathly white and shook on his feet when he saw those men probably would be caught . 
I suppose he'd promised to divide . 
You settle with him , and that business will stop . 
And you be the happiest man alive , because you have kept your trust . 
Go look where I tell you and you'll find the logs . 
I can see just about where they are . 
When they go up that steep little hill , into the next woods after the cornfield , why , they could unloose the chains and the logs would roll from the wagons themselves . 
Freckles could not endure it . 
As they drove to the swamp , McLean so earnestly seconded all that the Angel had said that he soon had the boy feeling much better . 
Freckles , your Angel has a spice of the devil in her , but she's superb ! You needn't spend any time questioning or bewailing anything she does . 
Just worship blindly , my boy . 
By heaven ! she's sense , courage , and beauty for half a dozen girls , said McLean . 
It's altogether right you are , sir , affirmed Freckles heartily . 
Presently he added , There's no question but the series is over now . 
Don't think it ! answered McLean . 
The Bird Woman is working for success , and success along any line is not won by being scared out . 
She will be back on the usual day , and ten to one , the Angel will be with her . 
They are made of pretty stern stuff , and they don't scare worth a cent . 
Before I left , I told the Bird Woman it would be safe and it will . 
You may do your usual walking , but those four guards are there to remain . 
They are under your orders absolutely . 
I have listened to your pride too long . 
You are too precious to me , and that voice of yours is too precious to the world to run any more risks . 
I am sorry to have anything spoil the series , said Freckles , and I'd love them to be coming , the Angel especial , but it can't be . 
You'll have to tell them so . 
You see , Jack would have been ready to stake his life she meant what she said and did to him . 
Between them they were pulling me around and hurting me bad . 
Wessner wanted to get at me right then , and Jack said he shouldn't be touching me till the last tree was out and all the rest of them gone . 
To keep me courage up , I twits Wessner about having to tie me and needing another man to help handle me . 
I told him what I'd do to him if I was free , and he grabs up me own club and lays open me head with it . 
When the blood came streaming , it set Jack raving , and he cursed and damned Wessner for a coward and a softy . 
Then Wessner turned on Jack and gives it to him for letting the Angel make a fool of him . 
That drove Jack plum crazy . 
I don't think he was for having a doubt of the Angel before , but then he just raved . 
He grabbed out his gun and turned on Wessner . 
Spang ! It went out of his fist , and the order comes Hands up ! Wessner reached for kingdom come like he was expecting to grab hold and pull himself up . 
Jack puts up what he has left . 
Then he leans over to me and tells me what he'll do to me if he ever gets out of there alive . 
Then , just like a snake hissing , he spits out what he'll do to her for playing him . 
He did get away , and with his strength , that wound in his hand won't be bothering him long . 
He'll do to me just what he said , and when he hears it really was she that went after you , why , he'll keep his oath about her . 
He's lived in the swamp all his life , sir , and everybody says it's always been the home of cutthroats , outlaws , and runaways . 
He knows its most secret places as none of the others . 
He's in there now , sir . 
Some way he'll keep alive . 
I ain't done with him yet , and I've brought this awful thing on her . 
And I haven't begun with him yet , said McLean , setting his teeth . 
I've been away too slow and too easy , believing there'd be no greater harm than the loss of a tree . 
I've sent for a couple of first class detectives . 
We will put them on his track , and rout him out and rid the country of him . 
I don't propose for him to stop either our work or our pleasure . 
As for his being in the swamp now , I don't believe it . 
He'd find a way out last night , in spite of us . 
Don't you worry ! I am at the helm now , and I'll see to that gentleman in my own way . 
I wish to my soul you had seen and heard him ! said Freckles , unconvinced . 
They entered the swamp , taking the route followed by the Bird Woman and the Angel . 
They really did find the logs , almost where the Angel had predicted they would be . 
McLean went to the South camp and had an interview with Crowen that completely convinced him that the Angel was correct there also . 
But he had no proof , so all he could do was to discharge the man , although his guilt was so apparent that he offered to withdraw the wager . 
Then McLean sent for a pack of bloodhounds and put them on the trail of Black Jack . 
Here the dogs bellowed , raved , and fell over each other in their excitement . 
They raced back and forth from swamp to swale , but follow the scent farther they would not , even though cruelly driven . 
At last their owner attributed their actions to snakes , and as they were very valuable dogs , abandoned the effort to urge them on . 
So that all they really established was the fact that Black Jack had eluded their vigilance and crossed the trail some time in the night . 
He had escaped to the swale from there he probably crossed the corduroy , and reaching the lower end of the swamp , had found friends . 
But for Freckles , with Jack's fearful oath ringing in his ears , there was neither rest nor peace . 
He was almost ill when the day for the next study of the series arrived and he saw the Bird Woman and the Angel coming down the corduroy . 
He was firm about the Angel's remaining in the carriage , that he did not offer to have unhitched . 
When the Bird Woman proposed to look for other subjects close about the line , Freckles went so far as to tell her that Jack had made fearful threats against the Angel . 
He implored her to take the Angel home and keep her under unceasing guard until Jack was located . 
He allowed her to go , but afterward blamed himself severely for having done so . 
There's no necessity for him being on guard , with the watch I've set on the line . 
I had no idea he was staying down there . 
He's no there , said Mrs. Duncan . 
He leaves on his wheel juist after we're abed and rides in close cock crow or a little earlier , and he's looking like death and nothing short of it . 
But where does he go ? asked McLean in astonishment . 
I'm no given to bearing tales out of school , said Sarah Duncan , but in this case I'd tell ye if I could . 
What the trouble is I dinna ken . 
If it is no' stopped , he's in for dreadful sickness , and I thought ye could find out and help him . 
He's in sair trouble that's all I know . 
McLean sat brooding as he stroked Nellie's neck . 
At last he said I suspect I understand . 
At any rate , I think I can find out . 
Thank you for telling me . 
Ye'll no need telling , once ye clap your eyes on him , prophesied Mrs. Duncan . 
His face is all a glist'ny yellow , and he's peaked as a starving caged bird . 
McLean rode to the Limberlost , and stopping in the shade , sat waiting for Freckles , whose hour for passing the foot of the lease had come . 
Along the north line came Freckles , fairly staggering . 
As if pulled by wires , the heavy lids flew open , while the outraged nerves and muscles of his body danced , twitched , and tingled . 
He bent forward and idly watched the limpid little stream flowing beneath his feet . 
Stretching into the swale , it came creeping between an impenetrable wall of magnificent wild flowers , vines , and ferns . 
Wild clematis crowned with snow the heads of trees scattered here and there on the bank . 
From afar the creek appeared to be murky , dirty water . 
Really it was clear and sparkling . 
The tinge of blackness was gained from its bed of muck showing through the transparent current . 
He could see small and wonderfully marked fish . 
What became of them when the creek spread into the swamp ? For one thing , they would make mighty fine eating for the family of that self satisfied old blue heron . 
Freckles sat so quietly that soon the brim of his hat was covered with snake feeders , rasping their crisp wings and singing while they rested . 
Some of them settled on the club , and one on his shoulder . 
He was so motionless feathers , fur , and gauze were so accustomed to him , that all through the swale they continued their daily life and forgot he was there . 
The heron family were wading the mouth of the creek . 
Freckles idly wondered whether the nerve racking rasps they occasionally emitted indicated domestic felicity or a raging quarrel . 
A sheitpoke , with flaring crest , went stalking across a bare space close to the creek's mouth . 
Behind him were some mighty trees of the swamp above , and below the bank glowed a solid wall of goldenrod . 
No wonder the ancients had chosen yellow as the color to represent victory , for the fierce , conquering hue of the sun was in it . 
They had done well , too , in selecting purple as the emblem of royalty . 
It was a dignified , compelling color , while in its warm tone there was a hint of blood . 
It was the Limberlost's hour to proclaim her sovereignty and triumph . 
His love of the swamp laid hold of him and shook him with its force . 
Compellingly beautiful was the Limberlost , but cruel withal for inside bleached the uncoffined bones of her victims , while she had missed cradling him , oh ! so narrowly . 
He shifted restlessly the movement sent the snake feeders skimming . 
The hum of life swelled and roared in his strained ears . 
Small turtles , that had climbed on a log to sun , splashed clumsily into the water . 
Somewhere in the timber of the bridge a bloodthirsty little frog cried sharply . 
KEEL'IM ! KEEL'IM ! Freckles muttered It's worse than that Black Jack swore to do to me , little fellow . 
A muskrat waddled down the bank and swam for the swamp , its pointed nose riffling the water into a shining trail in its wake . 
Then , below the turtle log , a dripping silver gray head , with shining eyes , was cautiously lifted , and Freckles' hand slid to his revolver . 
Higher and higher came the head , a long , heavy , furcoated body arose , now half , now three fourths from the water . 
Freckles looked at his shaking hand and doubted , but he gathered his forces , the shot rang , and the otter lay quiet . 
He hurried down and tried to lift it . 
He scarcely could muster strength to carry it to the bridge . 
The consciousness that he really could go no farther with it made Freckles realize the fact that he was close the limit of human endurance . 
He could bear it little , if any , longer . 
He must either see McLean , or else make a trip to town and find her father . 
Which should he do ? He was almost a stranger , so the Angel's father might not be impressed with what he said as he would if McLean went to him . 
Then he remembered that McLean had said he would come that morning . 
Freckles never had forgotten before . 
He hurried on the east trail as fast as his tottering legs would carry him . 
Freckles passed the second guard without seeing him , and hurried to the Boss . 
He took off his hat , wiped his forehead , and stood silent under the eyes of McLean . 
Mrs. Duncan had led him to expect that he would find a change in Freckles , but this was almost deathly . 
The fact was apparent that the boy scarcely knew what he was doing . 
His eyes had a glazed , far sighted appearance , that wrung the heart of the man who loved him . 
Without a thought of preliminaries , McLean leaned in the saddle and drew Freckles to him . 
My poor lad ! he said . 
My poor , dear lad ! tell me , and we will try to right it ! Freckles had twisted his fingers in Nellie's mane . 
At the kind words his face dropped on McLean's thigh and he shook with a nervous chill . 
McLean gathered him closer and waited . 
When the guard came with the otter , McLean without a word motioned him to lay it down and leave them . 
I cannot be bearing it the day out alone . 
I was coming to you when I remimbered you would be here . 
He lifted his face and gazed across the swale , with his jaws set firmly a minute , as if gathering his forces . 
It's the Angel , sir , he said . 
Instinctively McLean's grip on him tightened , and Freckles looked into the Boss's face in wonder . 
I tried , the other day , said Freckles , and I couldn't seem to make you see . 
She talked to me friendly like . 
She trusted me entirely to take right care of her . 
She helped me with things about me books . 
She traited me like I was born a gintleman , and shared with me as if I were of her own blood . 
She walked the streets of the town with me before her friends with all the pride of a queen . 
She forgot herself and didn't mind the Bird Woman , and run big risks to help me out that first day , sir . 
This last time she walked into that gang of murderers , took their leader , and twisted him to the will of her . 
She outdone him and raced the life almost out of her trying to save me . 
Since I can remimber , whatever the thing was that happened to me in the beginning has been me curse . 
I've been bitter , hard , and smarting under it hopelessly . 
She came by , and found me voice , and put hope of life and success like other men into me in spite of it . 
Freckles held up his maimed arm . 
Look at it , sir ! he said . 
A thousand times I've cursed it , hanging there helpless . 
She took it on the street , before all the people , just as if she didn't see that it was a thing to hide and shrink from . 
Again and again I've had the feeling with her , if I didn't entirely forget it , that she didn't see it was gone and I must he pointing it out to her . 
Her touch on it was so sacred like , at times since I've caught meself looking at the awful thing near like I was proud of it , sir . 
If I had been born your son she couldn't be traiting me more as her equal , and she can't help knowing you ain't truly me father . 
You saw her in the beautiful little room of her , and you can't be forgetting how she begged and plead with you for me . 
She touched me body , and twas sanctified . 
She laid her lips on my brow , and twas sacrament . 
Nobody knows the height of her better than me . 
Nobody's studied my depths closer . 
I cannot hear it , sir . 
It's killing me by inches ! Black Jack's hand may not have been hurt so bad . 
I can't stay here doing nothing another hour . 
The five nights gone I've watched under her windows , but there's the whole of the day . 
She's her own horse and little cart , and's free to be driving through the town and country as she pleases . 
If any evil comes to her through Black Jack , it comes from her angel like goodness to me . 
Believe me , I did not understand . 
I know the Angel's father well . 
I will go to him at once . 
I have transacted business with him for the past three years . 
I will make him see ! I am only beginning to realize your agony , and the real danger there is for the Angel . 
Believe me , I will see that she is fully protected every hour of the day and night until Jack is located and disposed of . 
And I promise you further , that if I fail to move her father or make him understand the danger , I will maintain a guard over her until Jack is caught . 
But McLean could see the flesh was twitching on the lad's bones . 
What was it the guard brought there ? McLean asked in an effort to distract Freckles' thoughts . 
Oh ! Freckles said , glancing where the Boss pointed , I forgot it ! Tis an otter , and fine past believing , for this warm weather . 
I shot it at the creek this morning . 
Twas a good shot , considering . 
Freckles picked up the animal and started toward McLean with it , but Nellie pricked up her dainty little ears , danced into the swale , and snorted with fright . 
Freckles dropped the otter and ran to her head . 
For pity's sake , get her on the trail , sir , he begged . 
She's just about where the old king rattler crosses to go into the swamp the old buster Duncan and I have been telling you of . 
I haven't a doubt but it was the one Mother Duncan met . 
'Twas down the trail there , just a little farther on , that I found her , and it's sure to be close yet . 
McLean slid from Nellie's back , led her into the trail farther down the line , and tied her to a bush . 
Then he went to examine the otter . 
It was a rare , big specimen , with exquisitely fine , long , silky hair . 
What do you want to do with it , Freckles ? asked McLean , as he stroked the soft fur lingeringly . 
Do you know that it is very valuable ? I was for almost praying so , sir , said Freckles . 
Her hands were in a muff as big as her body , and I thought it was so pretty . 
I think she was some queen , or the like . 
Do you suppose I could have this skin tanned and made into such a muff as that ? an enormous big one , sir ? Of course you can , said McLean . 
That's a fine idea and it's easy enough . 
We must box and express the otter , cold storage , by the first train . 
You stand guard a minute and I'll tell Hall to carry it to the cabin . 
I'll put Nellie to Duncan's rig , and we'll drive to town and call on the Angel's father . 
Then we'll start the otter while it is fresh , and I'll write your instructions later . 
Freckles lifted a face with a glow of happy color creeping into it and eyes lighting with a former brightness . 
God bless you , Freckles , he said . 
I do know ! We're going to have some good old times out of this world together , and we can't begin too soon . 
Suppose I do , said Freckles , with a glimmer of the old light in his eyes and newly found strength to shoulder the otter . 
Together they turned into the trail . 
McLean noticed and spoke of the big black chickens . 
They've been hanging round out there for several days past , said Freckles . 
I'll tell you what I think it means . 
I think the old rattler has killed something too big for him to swallow , and he's keeping guard and won't let me chickens have it . 
I'm just sure , from the way the birds have acted out there all summer , that it is the rattler's den . 
See the way they dip and then rise , frightened like ! Suddenly McLean turned toward him with blanching face Freckles ! he cried . 
My God , sir ! shuddered Freckles . 
He dropped the otter , caught up his club , and plunged into the swale . 
Reaching for his revolver , McLean followed . 
The chickens circled higher at their coming , and the big snake lifted his head and rattled angrily . 
It sank in sinuous coils at the report of McLean's revolver , and together he and Freckles stood beside Black Jack . 
His fate was evident and most horrible . 
Come , said the Boss at last . 
We don't dare touch him . 
We will get a sheet from Mrs. Duncan and tuck over him , to keep these swarms of insects away , and set Hall on guard , while we find the officers . 
He deliberately thrust his club under Black Jack's body , and , raising him , rested it on his knee . 
He pulled a long silver pin from the front of the dead man's shirt and sent it spinning into the swale . 
Then he gathered up a few crumpled bright flowers and dropped them into the pool far away . 
My soul is sick with the horror of this thing , said McLean , as he and Freckles drove toward town . 
I can't understand how Jack dared risk creeping through the swale , even in desperation . 
No one knew its dangers better than he . 
Once he got among them , he would have been safe to walk by stooping . 
If he'd made it past that place , he'd been sure to get out . 
Well , I'm as sorry for Jack as I know how to be , said McLean , but I can't help feeling relieved that our troubles are over , for now they are . 
With so dreadful a punishment for Jack , Wessner under arrest , and warrants for the others , we can count on their going away and remaining . 
As for anyone else , I don't think they will care to attempt stealing my timber after the experience of these men . 
There is no other man here with Jack's fine ability in woodcraft . 
Did you ever hear of anyone who ever tried to locate any trees excepting him ? asked Freckles . 
No , I never did , said McLean . 
I am sure there was no one besides him . 
You see , it was only with the arrival of our company that the other fellows scented good stuff in the Limberlost , and tried to work in . 
Jack knew the swamp better than anyone here . 
When he found there were two companies trying to lease , he wanted to stand in with the one from which he could realize the most . 
Even then he had trees marked that he was trying to dispose of . 
I think his sole intention in forcing me to discharge him from my gang was to come here and try to steal timber . 
We had no idea , when we took the lease , what a gold mine it was . 
That's exactly what Wessner said that first day , said Freckles eagerly . 
You don't mean a dozen ! That's what he said , sir a dozen . 
This makes three they've tried , so there must be nine more marked , and several of them for being just fine . 
Well , I wish I knew which they are , said McLean , so I could get them out first . 
I have been thinking , said Freckles . 
I suppose they are all marked something like that first maple on the line was . 
Wessner mentioned another good one not so far from that . 
He said it was best of all . 
I'd be having the swelled head if I could find that . 
Of course , I don't know a thing about the trees , but I could hunt for the marks . 
I believe I could be finding some of them . 
Good head ! said McLean . 
You may begin as soon as you are rested . 
I'll leave two men on the line , so that you will have one on either side , and you can come and go as you please . 
Have you stopped to think of all we owe her , my boy ? Yis and the Angel we owe her a lot , too , said Freckles . 
I owe her me life and honor . 
It's lying awake nights I'll have to be trying to think how I'm ever to pay her up . 
Well , begin with the muff , suggested McLean . 
He bent down and ruffled the rich fur of the otter lying at his feet . 
I don't exactly see how it comes to be in such splendid fur in summer . 
Their coats are always thick in cold weather , but this scarcely could be improved . 
I'll wire Cooper to be watching for it . 
They must have it fresh . 
When it's tanned we won't spare any expense in making it up . 
It should be a royal thing , and some way I think it will exactly suit the Angel . 
I can't think of anything that would be more appropriate for her . 
Neither can I , agreed Freckles heartily . 
When I reach the city there's one other thing , if I've the money after the muff is finished . 
He told McLean of Mrs. Duncan's desire for a hat similar to the Angel's . 
He hesitated a little in the telling , keeping sharp watch on McLean's face . 
When he saw the Boss's eyes were full of comprehension and sympathy , he loved him anew , for , as ever , McLean was quick to understand . 
Instead of laughing , he said I think you'll have to let me in on that , too . 
You mustn't be selfish , you know . 
I'll tell you what we'll do . 
I'll be home then , and we can fill a box . 
I'll add a dress and wrap . 
You buy Duncan a hat and gloves . 
I'll send him a big overcoat , and we'll put in a lot of little stuff for the babies . 
Won't that be fun ? Freckles fairly shivered with delight . 
That would be away too serious for fun , he said . 
Enough of the vines were left to cover it prettily , and every vestige of the havoc of a few days before was gone . 
New guards were patrolling the trail . 
Freckles was roughly laying off the swamp in sections and searching for marked trees . 
In that time he had found one deeply chipped and the chip cunningly replaced and tacked in . 
It promised to be quite rare , so he was jubilant . 
The Limberlost was now arrayed as the Queen of Sheba in all her glory . 
The first frosts of autumn had bejewelled her crown in flashing topaz , ruby , and emerald . 
Around her feet trailed the purple of her garments , while in her hand was her golden scepter . 
Everything was at full tide . 
It seemed as if nothing could grow lovelier , and it was all standing still a few weeks , waiting coming destruction . 
The swamp was palpitant with life . 
Every pair of birds that had flocked to it in the spring was now multiplied by from two to ten . 
It was the same story of increase everywhere . 
There were chubby little ground hogs scudding on the trail . 
There were cunning baby coons and opossums peeping from hollow logs and trees . 
Young muskrats followed their parents across the lagoons . 
Freckles never tired of studying the devotion of a fox mother to her babies . 
The Angel liked the baby rabbits and squirrels . 
Earlier in the season , when the young were yet very small , it so happened that at times Freckles could give into her hands one of these little ones . 
Then it was pure joy to stand back and watch her heaving breast , flushed cheek , and shining eyes . 
Hers were such lovely eyes . 
She had carried several of the squirrel and bunny babies home , and had littered the conservatory with them . 
Her care of them was perfect . 
She was learning her natural history from nature , and having much healthful exercise . 
To her , they were the most interesting of all , but the Bird Woman preferred the birds , with a close second in the moths and butterflies . 
Brown butterfly time had come . 
They outnumbered those of any other color three to one . 
Among the birds it really seemed as if the little yellow fellows were in the preponderance . 
Never was there a finer feast spread for the birds . 
The grasses were filled with seeds so , too , were weeds of every variety . 
Wild grapes and black haws were ready . 
The muck was yeasty with worms . 
Nature made glorious pause for holiday before her next change , and by none of the frequenters of the swamp was this more appreciated than by the big black chickens . 
They seemed to feel the new reign of peace and fullness most of all . 
He was a fine , big , overgrown fellow , and his wings , with quills of jetty black , gleaming with bronze , were so strong they almost lifted his body . 
He had three inches of tail , and his beak and claws were sharp . 
His muscles began to clamor for exercise . 
He raced the forty feet of his home back and forth many times every hour of the day . 
After a few days of that , he began lifting and spreading his wings , and flopping them until the down on his back was filled with elm fiber . 
The funny little hops , springs , and sidewise bounds he gave set Freckles and the Angel , hidden in the swamp , watching him , into smothered chuckles of delight . 
It was so comical that Freckles and the Angel told the Bird Woman of it one day . 
When she finished her work on Little Chicken , she left them the camera ready for use , telling them they might hide in the bushes and watch . 
If Little Chicken came out and truly smirked , and they could squeeze the bulb at the proper moment to snap him , she would be more than delighted . 
Freckles and the Angel quietly curled beside a big log , and with eager eyes and softest breathing they patiently waited but Little Chicken had feasted before they told of his latest accomplishment . 
He was tired and sleepy , so he went into the log to bed , and for an hour he never stirred . 
They were becoming anxious , for the light soon would be gone , and they had so wanted to try for the picture . 
At last Little Chicken lifted his head , opened his beak , and gaped widely . 
He dozed a minute or two more . 
The Angel said that was his beauty sleep . 
Then he lazily gaped again and stood up , stretching and yawning . 
He ambled leisurely toward the gateway , and the Angel said Now , we may have a chance , at last . 
I do hope so , shivered Freckles . 
With one accord they arose to their knees and trained their eyes on the mouth of the log . 
The light was full and strong . 
Little Chicken prospected again with no results . 
He dressed his plumage , polished his beak , and when he felt fine and in full toilet he began to flirt with himself . 
Freckles' eyes snapped and his breath sucked between his clenched teeth . 
He's going to do it ! whispered the Angel . 
You'll best give me that bulb ! Yis , assented Freckles , but he was looking at the log and he made no move to relinquish the bulb . 
Little Chicken nodded daintily and ruffled his feathers . 
He gave his head sundry little sidewise jerks and rapidly shifted his point of vision . 
Once there was the fleeting little ghost of a smirk . 
Now ! No ! snapped the Angel . 
Freckles leaned toward the bird . 
Unconsciously the hand of the Angel clasped his . 
He scarcely knew it was there . 
Suddenly Little Chicken sprang straight in the air and landed with a thud . 
The Angel started slightly , but Freckles was immovable . 
Freckles' fingers closed on the bulb convulsively , and the Angel's closed on his at the instant . 
Then she heaved a great sigh of relief and lifted her hands to push back the damp , clustering hair from her face . 
How soon do you s'pose it will be finished ? came Freckles' strident whisper . 
For the first time the Angel looked at him . 
He was on his knees , leaning forward , his eyes directed toward the bird , the perspiration running in little streams down his red , mosquito bitten face . 
His hat was awry , his bright hair rampant , his breast heaving with excitement , while he yet gripped the bulb with every ounce of strength in his body . 
Do you think we were for getting it ? he asked . 
The Angel could only nod . 
Freckles heaved a deep sigh of relief . 
Well , if that ain't the hardest work I ever did in me life ! he exclaimed . 
Now , let's be telling the Bird Woman about it ! he shouted , wildly dancing and swinging his hat . 
The Angel became white to the lips and gripped Freckles with both hands . 
He gulped with mortification and turned his back . 
To frighten her subject away carelessly ! It was the head crime in the Bird Woman's category . 
Why , why stammered the bewildered Angel . 
Freckles hurried into the breach . 
You must be for blaming it every bit on me . 
I was thinking we got Little Chicken's picture real good . 
Oh Freckles ! expostulated the Angel . 
Are you loony ? Of course , it was all my fault ! I've been with her hundreds of times . 
I knew perfectly well that I wasn't to let anything NOT ANYTHING scare her bird away ! I was so crazy I forgot . 
The blame is all mine , and she'll never forgive me . 
She will , too ! cried Freckles . 
If you will permit me a word , my infants , she said , I will explain to you that I have had three shots at that fellow . 
The Angel heaved a deep sigh of relief , and Freckles' face cleared a little . 
See ? Behold in yourselves the answer to the prayers of the long suffering ! Freckles took a step toward her . 
Are you really meaning that ? he asked wonderingly . 
Only think , Angel , we did the right thing ! She won't lose her picture through the carelessness of us , when she's waited and soaked nearly two hours . 
She's not angry with us ! Never was in a sweeter temper in my life , said the Bird Woman , busily cleaning and packing the cameras . 
Freckles removed his hat and solemnly held out his hand . 
With equal solemnity the Angel grasped it . 
The Bird Woman laughed alone , for to them the situation had been too serious to develop any of the elements of fun . 
Then they loaded the carriage , and the Bird Woman and the Angel started for their homes . 
It had been a difficult time for all of them , so they were very tired , but they were joyful . 
Freckles was so happy it seemed to him that life could hold little more . 
As the Bird Woman was ready to drive away he laid his hand on the lines and looked into her face . 
Do you suppose we got it ? he asked , so eagerly that she would have given much to be able to say yes with conviction . 
Why , my dear , I don't know , she said . 
I've no way to judge . 
If you made the exposure just before you came to me , there was yet a fine light . 
If you waited until Little Chicken was close the entrance , you should have something good , even if you didn't catch just the fleeting expression for which you hoped . 
Of course , I can't say surely , but I think there is every reason to believe that you have it all right . 
I will develop the plate tonight , make you a proof from it early in the morning , and bring it when we come . 
It's only a question of a day or two now until the gang arrives . 
I want to work in all the studies I can before that time , for they are bound to disturb the birds . 
Mr. McLean will need you then , and I scarcely see how we are to do without you . 
Freckles started away so happy that he felt inclined to keep watching behind to see if the trail were not curling up and rolling down the line after him . 
CHAPTER XVI Wherein the Angel Locates a Rare Tree and Dines with the Gang From afar Freckles saw them coming . 
The Angel was standing , waving her hat . 
He sprang on his wheel and raced , jolting and pounding , down the corduroy to meet them . 
The Bird Woman stopped the horse and the Angel gave him the bit of print paper . 
Freckles leaned the wheel against a tree and took the proof with eager fingers . 
He never before had seen a study from any of his chickens . 
When he turned his face toward them it was transfigured with delight . 
You see ! he exclaimed , and began gazing again . 
Oh , me Little Chicken ! he cried . 
Would you mind stopping at the cabin a minute and showing this to Mother Duncan ? he asked . 
Give me that little book in your pocket , said the Bird Woman . 
She folded the outer edges of the proof so that it would fit into the book , explaining as she did so its perishable nature in that state . 
Then she sent them away and waited what luck would bring to her . 
Now , what shall we do ? inquired the Angel , who was a bundle of nerves and energy . 
Would you like to go to me room awhile ? asked Freckles . 
If you don't care to very much , I'd rather not , said the Angel . 
Let's go help Mrs. Duncan with dinner and play with the baby . 
I love a nice , clean baby . 
They started toward the cabin . 
Every few minutes they stopped to investigate something or to chatter over some natural history wonder . 
They saw it at the same time . 
Someone has been making a flagpole , said the Angel , running the toe of her shoe around the stump , evidently made that season . 
Freckles , what would anyone cut a tree as small as that for ? I don't know , said Freckles . 
Well , but I want to know ! said the Angel . 
No one came away here and cut it for fun . 
Let's go back and see if we can see it anywhere around there . 
She turned , retraced her footsteps , and began eagerly searching . 
There it is ! he exclaimed at last , leaning against the trunk of that big maple . 
Yes , and leaning there has killed a patch of dried bark , said the Angel . 
See how dried it appears ? Freckles stared at her . 
Angel ! he shouted , I bet you it's a marked tree ! Course it is ! cried the Angel . 
No one would cut that sapling and carry it away there and lean it up for nothing . 
I'll tell you ! This is one of Jack's marked trees . 
He's climbed up there above anyone's head , peeled the bark , and cut into the grain enough to be sure . 
Then he's laid the bark back and fastened it with that pole to mark it . 
You see , there're a lot of other big maples close around it . 
Can you climb to that place ? Yes , said Freckles if I take off my wading boots I can . 
I believe it looks kind of nubby , encouraged the Angel , backing away , with her face all screwed into a twist in an effort to intensify her vision . 
Freckles reached the opening , then slid rapidly to the ground . 
He was almost breathless while his eyes were flashing . 
The bark's been cut clean with a knife , the sap scraped away , and a big chip taken out deep . 
The trunk is the twistiest thing you ever saw . 
It's full of eyes as a bird is of feathers ! The Angel was dancing and shaking his hand . 
Oh , Freckles , she cried , I'm so delighted that you found it ! But I didn't , said the astonished Freckles . 
That tree isn't my find it's yours . 
I forgot it and was going on you wouldn't give up , and kept talking about it , and turned back . 
You found it ! You'd best be looking after your reputation for truth and veracity , said the Angel . 
You know you saw that sapling first ! Yes , after you took me back and set me looking for it , scoffed Freckles . 
The clear , ringing echo of strongly swung axes came crashing through the Limberlost . 
'Tis the gang ! shouted Freckles . 
They're clearing a place to make the camp . 
Let's go help ! Hadn't we better mark that tree again ? cautioned the Angel . 
There's such a lot of them , and all so much alike . 
We'd feel good and green to find it and then lose it . 
Freckles lifted the sapling to replace it , but the Angel motioned him away . 
Use your hatchet , she said . 
I predict this is the most valuable tree in the swamp . 
I'm going to play that you're my knight . 
Now , you nail my colors on it . 
She reached up , and pulling a blue bow from her hair , untied and doubled it against the tree . 
Freckles turned his eyes from her and managed the fastening with shaking fingers . 
He did not dare lay his lips on that ribbon then , but that night he would return to it . 
When they had gone a little distance , they both looked back , and the morning breeze set the bit of blue waving them a farewell . 
They walked at a rapid pace . 
I am sorry about scaring the birds , said the Angel , but it's almost time for them to go anyway . 
Nobody will ever be guessing some of the things I've been through trying to keep me promise to the Boss , and to hold out until this day . 
He couldn't have done a whit better himself . 
You're all right , Freckles ! She reached him her hand , and as two children , they broke into a run when they came closer the gang . 
They left the swamp by the west road and followed the trail until they found the men . 
To the Angel it seemed complete charm . 
The teamsters were unloading , the horses were cropping leaves from the bushes , while each man was doing his part toward the construction of the new Limberlost quarters . 
Freckles helped the Angel climb on a wagonload of canvas in the shade . 
She removed her leggings , wiped her heated face , and glowed with happiness and interest . 
The gang had been sifted carefully . 
McLean now felt that there was not a man in it who was not trustworthy . 
They all had heard of the Angel's plucky ride for Freckles' relief several of them had been in the rescue party . 
Others , new since that time , had heard the tale rehearsed in its every aspect around the smudge fires at night . 
Almost all of them knew the Angel by sight from her trips with the Bird Woman to their leases . 
They all knew her father , her position , and the luxuries of her home . 
Whatever course she had chosen with them they scarcely would have resented it , but the Angel never had been known to choose a course . 
Her spirit of friendliness was inborn and inbred . 
She loved everyone , so she sympathized with everyone . 
Her generosity was only limited by what was in her power to give . 
When she was ensconced on the wagonload of tenting , she sat on a roll of canvas as a queen on her throne . 
There was not a man of the gang who did not respect her . 
She was a living exponent of universal brotherhood . 
There was no man among them who needed her exquisite face or dainty clothing to teach him that the deference due a gentlewoman should be paid her . 
That the spirit of good fellowship she radiated levied an especial tribute of its own , and it became their delight to honor and please her . 
As they raced toward the wagon Let me tell about the tree , please ? she begged Freckles . 
Why , sure ! said Freckles . 
He probably would have said the same to anything she suggested . 
When McLean came , he found the Angel flushed and glowing , sitting on the wagon , her hands already filled . 
One of the men , who was cutting a scrub oak , had carried to her a handful of crimson leaves . 
Another had gathered a bunch of delicate marsh grass heads for her . 
Someone else , in taking out a bush , had found a daintily built and lined little nest , fresh as when made . 
She held up her treasures and greeted McLean , Good morning , Mr. Boss of the Limberlost ! The gang shouted , while he bowed profoundly before her . 
Everyone listen ! cried the Angel , climbing a roll of canvas . 
All together ! Everyone ! Hurrah for Freckles ! With flushing cheeks and gleaming eyes , gaily waving the grass above her head , she led in three cheers and a tiger . 
Freckles slipped into the swamp and hid himself , for fear he could not conceal his pride and his great surging , throbbing love for her . 
The Angel subsided on the canvas and explained to McLean about the maple . 
The Boss was mightily pleased . 
He took Freckles and set out to re locate and examine the tree . 
The Angel was interested in the making of the camp , so she preferred to remain with the men . 
With her sharp eyes she was watching every detail of construction but when it came to the stretching of the dining hall canvas she proceeded to take command . 
The men were driving the rope pins , when the Angel arose on the wagon and , leaning forward , spoke to Duncan , who was directing the work . 
I believe if you will swing that around a few feet farther , you will find it better , Mr. Duncan , she said . 
That way will let the hot sun in at noon , while the sides will cut off the best breeze . 
That's a fact , said Duncan , studying the conditions . 
So , by shifting the pins a little , they obtained comfort for which they blessed the Angel every day . 
When they came to the sleeping tent , they consulted her about that . 
She explained the general direction of the night breeze and indicated the best position for the tent . 
She left the wagon , and climbing on the newly erected dining table , advised with the cook in placing his stove , table , and kitchen utensils . 
When Freckles returned from the tree to join in the work around the camp , he caught glimpses of her enthroned on a soapbox , cleaning beans . 
She called to him that they were invited for dinner , and that they had accepted the invitation . 
When the beans were steaming in the pot , the Angel advised the cook to soak them overnight the next time , so that they would cook more quickly and not burst . 
She was sure their cook at home did that way , and the CHEF of the gang thought it would be a good idea . 
The next Freckles saw of her she was paring potatoes . 
A little later she arranged the table . 
She set the plates an even distance apart , and laid the forks and spoons beside them . 
Then she neatly covered these improvised vases with the Manila paper from the groceries , tying it with wisps of marshgrass . 
These she filled with fringed gentians , blazing star , asters , goldenrod , and ferns , placing them the length of the dining table . 
In one of the end cans she arranged her red leaves , and in the other the fancy grass . 
Two men , watching her , went away proud of themselves and said that she was a born lady . 
She laughingly caught up a paper bag and fitted it jauntily to her head in imitation of a cook's cap . 
Then she ground the coffee , and beat a couple of eggs to put in , because there is company , she gravely explained to the cook . 
She asked that delighted individual if he did not like it best that way , and he said he did not know , because he never had a chance to taste it . 
The Angel said that was her case exactly she never had , either she was not allowed anything stronger than milk . 
She told the cook about camping with her father , and explained that he made his coffee that way . 
The influence of the Angel's visit lingered with the cook through the remainder of his life , while the men prayed for her frequent return . 
She was having a happy time , when McLean came back jubilant , from his trip to the tree . 
How jubilant he told only the Angel , for he had been obliged to lose faith in some trusted men of late , and had learned discretion by what he suffered . 
I am coming to see it felled , cried the Angel . 
I feel a sort of motherly interest in that tree . 
He would have staked his life on the honesty of either the Angel or Freckles yet their versions of the finding of the tree differed widely . 
Tell me , Angel , the Boss said jestingly . 
I think I have a right to know . 
Who really did locate that tree ? Freckles , she answered promptly and emphatically . 
But he says quite as positively that it was you . 
The Angel's legal look flashed into her face . 
Her eyes grew tense with earnestness . 
She glanced around , and seeing no towel or basin , held out her hand for Sears to pour water over them . 
Then , using the skirt of her dress to dry them , she climbed on the wagon . 
I'll tell you , word for word , how it happened , she said , and then you shall decide , and Freckles and I will agree with you . 
But I have a fairly accurate idea as to who put the blue ribbon on it . 
What will you have for yours ? McLean had asked of Freckles . 
If it's all the same to you , I'll be taking mine out in music lessons begging your pardon voice culture , said Freckles with a grimace . 
McLean laughed , for Freckles needed to see or hear only once to absorb learning as the thirsty earth sucks up water . 
The Angel placed McLean at the head of the table . 
That imposed a slight constraint . 
Then , too , the men were afraid of the flowers , the polished tableware , and above all , of the dainty grace of the Angel . 
Nowhere do men so display lack of good breeding and culture as in dining . 
Instinctively every man at the table straightened . 
CHAPTER XVII Wherein Freckles Offers His Life for His Love and Gets a Broken Body To reach the tree was a more difficult task than McLean had supposed . 
In many places the muck had to be filled to give the horses and wagons a solid foundation over which to haul heavy loads . 
It was several days before they completed a road to the noble , big tree and were ready to fell it . 
When the sawing began , Freckles was watching down the road where it met the trail leading from Little Chicken's tree . 
He had gone to the tree ahead of the gang to remove the blue ribbon . 
Carefully folded , it now lay over his heart . 
He was promising himself much comfort with that ribbon , when he would leave for the city next month to begin his studies and dream the summer over again . 
It would help to make things tangible . 
When he was dressed as other men , and at his work , he knew where he meant to home that precious bit of blue . 
It should be his good luck token , and he would wear it always to keep bright in memory the day on which the Angel had called him her knight . 
She had wanted to see their tree felled . 
She would be too late if she did not arrive soon . 
He had told her it would be ready that morning , and she had said she surely would be there . 
Why , of all mornings , was she late on this ? McLean had ridden to town . 
If he had been there , Freckles would have asked that they delay the felling , but he scarcely liked to ask the gang . 
He really had no authority , although he thought the men would wait but some way he found such embarrassment in framing the request that he waited until the work was practically ended . 
The saw was out , and the men were cutting into the felling side of the tree when the Boss rode in . 
His first word was to inquire for the Angel . 
As the men stepped back , a stiff morning breeze caught the top , that towered high above its fellows . 
A groan of horror burst from the dry throats of the men , and reading the agony in their faces , she stopped short , glanced up , and understood . 
Run south ! The Angel was helpless . 
It was apparent that she did not know which way south was . 
There was another slow shiver of the big tree . 
The remainder of the gang stood motionless , but Freckles sprang past the trunk and went leaping in big bounds . 
He caught up the Angel and dashed through the thicket for safety . 
The swaying trunk was half over when , for an instant , a near by tree stayed its fall . 
They saw Freckles' foot catch , and with the Angel he plunged headlong . 
A terrible cry broke from the men , while McLean covered his face . 
Instantly Freckles was up , with the Angel in his arms , struggling on . 
The outer limbs were on them when they saw Freckles hurl the Angel , face down , in the muck , as far from him as he could send her . 
The branches shut them from sight , and the awful crash rocked the earth . 
McLean and Duncan ran with axes and saws . 
The remainder of the gang followed , and they worked desperately . 
It seemed a long time before they caught a glimpse of the Angel's blue dress , but it renewed their vigor . 
Duncan fell on his knees beside her and tore the muck from underneath her with his hands . 
In a few seconds he dragged her out , choking and stunned , but surely not fatally hurt . 
Freckles lay a little farther under the tree , a big limb pinning him down . 
His eyes were wide open . 
Duncan began mining beneath him , but Freckles stopped him . 
You can't be moving me , he said . 
You must cut off the limb and lift it . 
Two men ran for the big saw . 
A number of them laid hold of the limb and bore up . 
In a short time it was removed , and Freckles lay free . 
The men bent over to lift him , but he motioned them away . 
Don't be touching me until I rest a bit , he pleaded . 
Then he twisted his head until he saw the Angel , who was wiping muck from her eyes and face on the skirt of her dress . 
Try to get up , he begged . 
McLean laid hold of the Angel and helped her to her feet . 
Do you think any bones are broken ? gasped Freckles . 
The Angel shook her head and wiped muck . 
You see if you can find any , sir , Freckles commanded . 
The Angel yielded herself to McLean's touch , and he assured Freckles that she was not seriously injured . 
Freckles settled back , a smile of ineffable tenderness on his face . 
Thank the Lord ! he hoarsely whispered . 
The Angel leaned toward him . 
Now , Freckles , you ! she cried . 
Please get up ! A pitiful spasm swept Freckles' face . 
The sight of it washed every vestige of color from the Angel's . 
She took hold of his hands . 
Freckles , get up ! It was half command , half entreaty . 
Easy , Angel , easy ! Let me rest a bit first ! implored Freckles . 
He reached his arm around her and drew her closely . 
He looked at McLean in an agony of entreaty that brought the Boss to his knees on the other side . 
Oh , Freckles ! McLean cried . 
With one hasty glance she gathered the clothing together and slipped her arm under his head . 
Freckles lifted his eyes of agony to hers . 
You see ? he said . 
Thank you for everything , he panted . 
Where are the boys ? They are all here , said the Boss , except a couple who have gone for doctors , Mrs. Duncan and the Bird Woman . 
It's no use trying to do anything , said Freckles . 
You won't forget the muff and the Christmas box . 
The muff especial ? There was a movement above them so pronounced that it attracted Freckles' attention , even in that extreme hour . 
He looked up , and a pleased smile flickered on his drawn face . 
Why , if it ain't me Little Chicken ! he cried hoarsely . 
He must be making his very first trip from the log . 
Now Duncan can have his big watering trough . 
It was Little Chicken that made me late , faltered the Angel . 
I was so anxious to get here early I forgot to bring his breakfast from the carriage . 
He must have been hungry , for when I passed the log he started after me . 
He was so wabbly , and so slow flying from tree to tree and through the bushes , I just had to wait on him , for I couldn't drive him back . 
Then he lay silently thinking , but presently he asked slowly And so twas me Little Chicken that was making you late , Angel ? Yes , said the Angel . 
A spasm of fierce pain shook Freckles , and a look of uncertainty crossed his face . 
I can't help being Irish , but I can help being superstitious , he said . 
I mustn't be laying it to the Almighty , or to me bird , must I ? No , dear lad , said McLean , stroking the brilliant hair . 
The choice lay with you . 
You could have stood a rooted dolt like all the remainder of us . 
It was through your great love and your high courage that you made the sacrifice . 
Don't you be so naming it , sir ! cried Freckles . 
If I could be giving me body the hundred times over to save hers from this , I'd be doing it and take joy with every pain . 
He turned with a smile of adoring tenderness to the Angel . 
She was ghastly white , and her eyes were dull and glazed . 
She scarcely seemed to hear or understand what was coming , but she bravely tried to answer that smile . 
Is my forehead covered with dirt ? he asked . 
You did once , he gasped . 
Instantly she laid her lips on his forehead , then on each cheek , and then in a long kiss on his lips . 
Freckles , he said brokenly , you will never know how I love you . 
You won't go without saying good bye to me ? That word stung the Angel to quick comprehension . 
She started as if arousing from sleep . 
Good bye ? she cried sharply , her eyes widening and the color rushing into her white face . 
Of course , we will all go with him ! You call up the men . 
We must start right away . 
It's no use , Angel , said Freckles . 
I'm thinking ivry bone in me breast is smashed . 
You'll have to be letting me go ! I will not , said the Angel flatly . 
It's no use wasting precious time talking about it . 
I don't know what has been the matter with me . 
Here's good time wasted already . 
Oh , Angel ! moaned Freckles , I can't ! You don't know how bad it is . 
I'll die the minute you are for trying to lift me ! Of course you will , if you make up your mind to do it , said the Angel . 
But if you are determined you won't , and set yourself to breathing deep and strong , and hang on to me tight , I can get you out . 
Really you must , Freckles , no matter how it hurts , for you did this for me , and now I must save you , so you might as well promise . 
She bent over him , trying to smile encouragement with her fear stiffened lips . 
You will promise , Freckles ? Big drops of cold sweat ran together on Freckles' temples . 
Angel , darlin' Angel , he pleaded , taking her hand in his . 
You ain't understanding , and I can't for the life of me be telling you , but indade , it's best to be letting me go . 
Please say good bye , and let me slip off quick ! He appealed to McLean . 
Dear Boss , you know ! You be telling her that , for me , living is far worse pain than dying . 
Tell her you know death is the best thing that could ever be happening to me ! Merciful Heaven ! burst in the Angel . 
I can't endure this delay ! She caught Freckles' hand to her breast , and bending over him , looked deeply into his stricken eyes . 
Angel , I give you my word of honor that I will keep right on breathing . 
That's what you are going to promise me , she said . 
Do you say it ? Freckles hesitated . 
Freckles ! imploringly commanded the Angel , YOU DO SAY IT ! Yis , gasped Freckles . 
The Angel sprang to her feet . 
Then that's all right , she said , with a tinge of her old time briskness . 
You just keep breathing away like a steam engine , and I will do all the remainder . 
The eager men gathered around her . 
There's no time to spend falling down over each other we must have some system . 
You four there get on those wagon horses and ride to the sleeping tent . 
Get the stoutest cot , a couple of comforts , and a pillow . 
Ride back with them some way to save time . 
If you meet any other men of the gang , send them here to help carry the cot . 
We won't risk the jolt of driving with him . 
The others clear a path out to the road and Mr. McLean , you take Nellie and ride to town . 
Tell my father how Freckles is hurt and that he risked it to save me . 
Tell him I'm going to take Freckles to Chicago on the noon train , and I want him to hold it if we are a little late . 
If he can't , then have a special ready at the station and another on the Pittsburgh at Fort Wayne , so we can go straight through . 
You needn't mind leaving us . 
The Bird Woman will be here soon . 
She dropped into the muck beside Freckles and began stroking his hair and hand . 
He lay with his face of agony turned to hers , and fought to smother the groans that would tell her what he was suffering . 
When they stood ready to lift him , the Angel bent over him in a passion of tenderness . 
Dear old Limberlost guard , we're going to lift you now , she said . 
Angel , can a man be remembering a promise when he ain't knowing ? he asked . 
You can , said the Angel stoutly , because a promise means so much more to you than it does to most men . 
A look of strength flashed into Freckles' face at her words . 
I am ready , he said . 
With the first touch his eyes closed , a mighty groan was wrenched from him , and he lay senseless . 
The Angel gave Duncan one panic stricken look . 
Then she set her lips and gathered her forces again . 
I guess that's a good thing , she said . 
Maybe he won't feel how we are hurting him . 
Oh boys , are you being quick and gentle ? She stepped to the side of the cot and bathed Freckles' face . 
Taking his hand in hers , she gave the word to start . 
She told the men to ask every able bodied man they met to join them so that they could change carriers often and make good time . 
All the way the Angel walked beside the cot , shading Freckles' face with a branch , and holding his hand . 
At every pause to change carriers she moistened his face and lips and watched each breath with heart breaking anxiety . 
She scarcely knew when her father joined them , and taking the branch from her , slipped an arm around her waist and almost carried her . 
To the city streets and the swarm of curious , staring faces she paid no more attention than she had to the trees of the Limberlost . 
When the train came and the gang placed Freckles aboard , big Duncan made a place for the Angel beside the cot . 
With the best physician to be found , and with the Bird Woman and McLean in attendance , the four hours' run to Chicago began . 
The Angel constantly watched over Freckles bathed his face , stroked his hand , and gently fanned him . 
Not for an instant would she yield her place , or allow anyone else to do anything for him . 
The Bird Woman and McLean regarded her in amazement . 
There seemed to be no end to her resources and courage . 
The only time she spoke was to ask McLean if he were sure the special would be ready on the Pittsburgh road . 
He replied that it was made up and waiting . 
At five o'clock Freckles lay stretched on the operating table of Lake View Hospital , while three of the greatest surgeons in Chicago bent over him . 
At their command , McLean picked up the unwilling Angel and carried her to the nurses to be bathed , have her bruises attended , and to be put to bed . 
The Angel fell fast asleep long before they had finished , and lay deeply unconscious , while the fight for Freckles' life was being waged . 
Three days later she was the same Angel as of old , except that Freckles was constantly in her thoughts . 
The anxiety and responsibility that she felt for his condition had bred in her a touch of womanliness and authority that was new . 
That morning she arose early and hovered near Freckles' door . 
When she was dropping from loss of sleep , the threat that she would fall ill had to be used to send her to bed . 
Then by telling Freckles that the Angel was asleep and they would waken her the moment he moved , they were able to control him for a short time . 
The surgeon was with Freckles . 
The men faced each other . 
The Angel , with parted lips and frightened eyes , bent forward in tense anxiety . 
I I thought he was doing nicely ? faltered McLean . 
He bore the operation well , replied the surgeon , and his wounds are not necessarily fatal . 
I told you that yesterday , but I did not tell you that something else probably would kill him and it will . 
He need not die from the accident , but he will not live the day out . 
But why ? What is it ? asked McLean hurriedly . 
We all dearly love the boy . 
We have millions among us to do anything that money can accomplish . 
Why must he die , if those broken bones are not the cause ? That is what I am going to give you the opportunity to tell me , replied the surgeon . 
He need not die from the accident , yet he is dying as fast as his splendid physical condition will permit , and it is because he so evidently prefers death to life . 
If he were full of hope and ambition to live , my work would be easy . 
He is , said the surgeon . 
He will not live this day out , unless some strong reaction sets in at once . 
He is so low , that preferring death to life , nature cannot overcome his inertia . 
If he is to live , he must be made to desire life . 
Now he undoubtedly wishes for death , and that it come quickly . 
Then he must die , said McLean . 
His broad shoulders shook convulsively . 
His strong hands opened and closed mechanically . 
Does that mean that you know what he desires and cannot , or will not , supply it ? McLean groaned in misery . 
The thing for which he will die , he can never have . 
Then you must prepare for the end very shortly said the surgeon , turning abruptly away . 
McLean caught his arm roughly . 
You look here ! he cried in desperation . 
You say that as if I could do something if I would . 
I tell you the boy is dear to me past expression . 
I would do anything spend any sum . 
You have noticed and repeatedly commented on the young girl with me . 
It is that child that he wants ! He worships her to adoration , and knowing he can never be anything to her , he prefers death to life . 
Why ? Well , for many reasons ! I told you he was my son . 
You probably knew that he was not . 
A little over a year ago I never had seen him . 
He joined one of my lumber gangs from the road . 
He is a stray , left at one of your homes for the friendless here in Chicago . 
When he grew up the superintendent bound him to a brutal man . 
He ran away and landed in one of my lumber camps . 
He has no name or knowledge of legal birth . 
The Angel we have talked of her . 
You see what she is , physically and mentally . 
She has ancestors reaching back to Plymouth Rock , and across the sea for generations before that . 
She is an idolized , petted only child , and there is great wealth . 
Life holds everything for her , nothing for him . 
He sees it more plainly than anyone else could . 
There is nothing for the boy but death , if it is the Angel that is required to save him . 
The Angel stood between them . 
Well , I just guess not ! she cried . 
If Freckles wants me , all he has to do is to say so , and he can have me ! The amazed men stepped back , staring at her . 
That he will never say , said McLean at last , and you don't understand , Angel . 
I don't know how you came here . 
The Angel looked straight into the great surgeon's eyes with her clear , steady orbs of blue , and then into McLean's with unwavering frankness . 
Well , I do love him , she said simply . 
You don't understand , he reiterated patiently . 
It isn't the love of a friend , or a comrade , or a sister , that Freckles wants from you it is the love of a sweetheart . 
The very words you speak , and the manner in which you say them , prove that you are a mere child , and have not dreamed what love is . 
Then the Angel grew splendid . 
A rosy flush swept the pallor of fear from her face . 
Her big eyes widened and dilated with intense lights . 
She seemed to leap to the height and the dignity of superb womanhood before their wondering gaze . 
I never have had to dream of love , she said proudly . 
I never have known anything else , in all my life , but to love everyone and to have everyone love me . 
And there never has been anyone so dear as Freckles . 
If you will remember , we have been through a good deal together . 
I do love Freckles , just as I say I do . 
I don't know anything about the love of sweethearts , but I love him with all the love in my heart , and I think that will satisfy him . 
Surely it should ! muttered the man of knives and lancets . 
McLean reached to take hold of the Angel , but she saw the movement and swiftly stepped back . 
As for my father , she continued , he at once told me what he learned from you about Freckles . 
I've known all you know for several weeks . 
That knowledge didn't change your love for him a particle . 
I think the Bird Woman loved him more . 
He won't expect me not to love Freckles , or not to tell him so , if the telling will save him . 
She darted past McLean into Freckles' room , closed the door , and turned the key . 
His greedy gaze fastened at once on the Angel's face . 
She crossed to him with light step and bent over him with infinite tenderness . 
Her heart ached at the change in his appearance . 
He seemed so weak , heart hungry , so utterly hopeless , so alone . 
She could see that the night had been one long terror . 
For the first time she tried putting herself in Freckles' place . 
What would it mean to have no parents , no home , no name ? No name ! That was the worst of all . 
That was to be lost indeed utterly and hopelessly lost . 
The Angel lifted her hands to her dazed head and reeled , as she tried to face that proposition . 
She dropped on her knees beside the bed , slipped her arm under the pillow , and leaning over Freckles , set her lips on his forehead . 
He smiled faintly , but his wistful face appeared worse for it . 
It hurt the Angel to the heart . 
Dear Freckles , she said , there is a story in your eyes this morning , tell me ? Freckles drew a long , wavering breath . 
Angel , he begged , be generous ! Be thinking of me a little . 
I'm so homesick and worn out , dear Angel , be giving me back me promise . 
Let me go ? Why Freckles ! faltered the Angel . 
You don't know what you are asking . 
Let you go ! I cannot ! I love you better than anyone , Freckles . 
I think you are the very finest person I ever knew . 
I have our lives all planned . 
I want you to be educated and learn all there is to know about singing , just as soon as you are well enough . 
I have been counting on you for my sweetheart from the very first , Freckles . 
I can't give you up , unless you don't like me . 
But you do like me just a little don't you , Freckles ? Freckles lay whiter than the coverlet , his staring eyes on the ceiling and his breath wheezing between dry lips . 
I must have you , and now I guess I guess maybe I'd better kiss you next . 
She lifted her shamed face and bravely laid her feverish , quivering lips on his . 
Her breath , like clover bloom , was in his nostrils , and her hair touched his face . 
Then she looked into his eyes with reproach . 
Freckles , she panted , Freckles ! I didn't think it was in you to be mean ! Mean , Angel ! Mean to you ? gasped Freckles . 
Yes , said the Angel . 
When I kiss you , if you had any mercy at all you'd kiss back , just a little bit . 
Freckles' sinewy fist knotted into the coverlet . 
His chin pointed ceilingward while his head rocked on the pillow . 
Oh , Jesus ! burst from him in agony . 
You ain't the only one that was crucified ! The Angel caught Freckles' hand and carried it to her breast . 
Freckles ! she wailed in terror , Freckles ! It is a mistake ? Is it that you don't want me ? Freckles' head rolled on in wordless suffering . 
Wait a bit , Angel ? he panted at last . 
Be giving me a little time ! The Angel arose with controlled features . 
She bathed his face , straightened his hair , and held water to his lips . 
It seemed a long time before he reached toward her . 
Instantly she knelt again , carried his hand to her breast , and leaned her cheek upon it . 
Tell me , Freckles , she whispered softly . 
If I can , said Freckles in agony . 
You've a sound body and you're beautifulest of all . 
You have everything that loving , careful raising and money can give you . 
I have so much less than nothing that I don't suppose I had any right to be born . 
It's a sure thing nobody wanted me afterward , so of course , they didn't before . 
Some of them should have been telling you long ago . 
If that's all you have to say , Freckles , I've known that quite a while , said the Angel stoutly . 
Mr. McLean told my father , and he told me . 
That only makes me love you more , to pay for all you've missed . 
Then I'm wondering at you , said Freckles in a voice of awe . 
When I was little , I planned to find me father and mother when I grew up . 
Now I know me mother deserted me , and me father was maybe a thief and surely a liar . 
The pity for me suffering and the watching over me have gone to your head , dear Angel , and it's me must be thinking for you . 
I used to pray ivery night and morning and many times the day to see me mother . 
Now I only pray to die quickly and never risk the sight of her . 
'Tain't no ways possible , Angel ! It's a wildness of your dear head . 
Oh , do for mercy sake , kiss me once more and be letting me go ! Not for a minute ! cried the Angel . 
Not for a minute , if those are all the reasons you have . 
It's you who are wild in your head , but I can understand just how it happened . 
There are thousands of young couples who come to this country and start a family with none of their relatives here . 
It's all so plain to me . 
Oh , if I could only make you see ! She buried her face in the pillow and presently lifted it , transfigured . 
Now I have it ! she cried . 
Other places there were big shining pools where lovely , snow white lilies grew , and you waded in and gathered them for me . 
Dear Freckles , think hard ! You must see it ! You are a lily , straight through . 
You never , never could have drifted from the thistle patch . 
Where did you find the courage to go into the Limberlost and face its terrors ? You inherited it from the blood of a brave father , dear heart . 
You attacked single handed a man almost twice your size , and fought as a demon , merely at the suggestion that you be deceptive and dishonest . 
Could your mother or your father have been untruthful ? Here you are , so hungry and starved that you are dying for love . 
You once told me of saving your big bullfrog from a rattlesnake . 
You knew you risked a horrible death when you did it . 
Yet you will spend miserable years torturing yourself with the idea that your own mother might have cut off that hand . 
Shame on you , Freckles ! Your mother would have done this The Angel deliberately turned back the cover , slipped up the sleeve , and laid her lips on the scars . 
Freckles ! Wake up ! she cried , almost shaking him . 
Come to your senses ! Be a thinking , reasoning man ! You have brooded too much , and been all your life too much alone . 
It's all as plain as plain can be to me . 
He says that you are the most perfect gentleman he ever knew , and he has traveled the world over . 
How does it happen , Freckles ? No one at that Home taught you . 
Hundreds of men couldn't be taught , even in a school of etiquette so it must be instinctive with you . 
I don't believe there ever was a mortal with a sweeter voice than yours , and while that doesn't prove anything , there is a point that does . 
The little training you had from that choirmaster won't account for the wonderful accent and ease with which you sing . 
Somewhere in your close blood is a marvelously trained vocalist we every one of us believe that , Freckles . 
Why does my father refer to you constantly as being of fine perceptions and honor ? Because you are , Freckles . 
Why does the Bird Woman leave her precious work and come here to help look after you ? I never heard of her losing any time over anyone else . 
It's because she loves you . 
He is a hard headed business man , Freckles , and he is doing it because he finds you worthy of it . 
That will be the first step , and then the remainder will all come . 
If my father and Mr. McLean are so anxious to spend some money , I'll give them a chance . 
I don't see why we haven't comprehended how you felt and so have been at work weeks ago . 
We've all been so comfortable , we never stopped to think what other people were suffering before our eyes . 
None of us has understood . 
I'll hire the finest detective in Chicago , and we'll go to work together . 
This is nothing compared with things people do find out . 
We'll go at it , beak and claw , and we'll show you a thing or two . 
Me mother , Angel ! Me mother ! he marveled hoarsely . 
Your mother didn't do it ! Mothers of sons such as you don't do things like that . 
I'll go to work at once and prove it to you . 
The first thing to do is to go to that Home where you were and get the clothes you wore the night you were left there . 
I know that they are required to save those things carefully . 
We can find out almost all there is to know about your mother from them . 
Did you ever see them ? Yis , he replied . 
Freckles ! Were they white ? she cried . 
They're all yellow with laying , and brown with blood stains now said Freckles , the old note of bitterness creeping in . 
You can't be telling anything at all by them , Angel ! Well , but I just can ! said the Angel positively . 
I can see from the quality what kind of goods your mother could afford to buy . 
I can see from the cut whether she had good taste . 
I can see from the care she took in making them how much she loved and wanted you . 
But how ? Angel , tell me how ! implored Freckles with trembling eagerness . 
Why , easily enough , said the Angel . 
People that can afford anything at all , always buy white for little new babies linen and lace , and the very finest things to be had . 
There's a young woman living near us who cut up her wedding clothes to have fine things for her baby . 
Mothers who love and want their babies don't buy little rough , ready made things , and they don't run up what they make on an old sewing machine . 
They make fine seams , and tucks , and put on lace and trimming by hand . 
They sit and stitch , and stitch little , even stitches , every one just as careful . 
Their eyes shine and their faces glow . 
When they have to quit to do something else , they look sorry , and fold up their work so particularly . 
There isn't much worth knowing about your mother that those little clothes won't tell . 
I can see her putting the little stitches into them and smiling with shining eyes over your coming . 
Freckles , I'll wager you a dollar those little clothes of yours are just alive with the dearest , tiny handmade stitches . 
A new light dawned in Freckles' eyes . 
A tinge of warm color swept into his face . 
Renewed strength was noticeable in his grip of her hands . 
Oh Angel ! Will you go now ? Will you be hurrying ? he cried . 
Right away , said the Angel . 
I won't stop for a thing , and I'll hurry with all my might . 
She smoothed his pillow , straightened the cover , gave him one steady look in the eyes , and went quietly from the room . 
Outside the door , McLean and the surgeon anxiously awaited her . 
Angel , what have you done ? he demanded . 
The Angel smiled defiance into his eyes . 
What have I done ? she repeated . 
I've tried to save Freckles . 
What will your father say ? groaned McLean . 
It strikes me , said the Angel , that what Freckles said would be to the point . 
What could he say ? He seemed to be able to say several things , answered the Angel sweetly . 
I fancy the one that concerns you most at present was , that if my father should offer me to him he would not have me . 
And no one knows why better than I do , cried McLean . 
Every day he must astonish me with some new fineness . 
He turned to the surgeon . 
Save him ! he commanded . 
Save him ! he implored . 
He is too fine to be sacrificed . 
Don't trouble for the boy . 
She will save him ! The Angel laughingly sped down the hall , and into the street , just as she was . 
The woman looked at her in greater astonishment than the occasion demanded . 
Well , I'd be glad to let you see them , she said at last , but the fact is we haven't them . 
I do hope we haven't made some mistake . 
I was thoroughly convinced , and so was the superintendent . 
We let his people take those things away yesterday . 
Who are you , and what do you want with them ? The Angel stood dazed and speechless , staring at the matron . 
There couldn't have been a mistake , continued the matron , seeing the Angel's distress . 
Freckles was here when I took charge , ten years ago . 
These people had it all proved that he belonged to them . 
They had him traced to where he ran away in Illinois last fall , and there they completely lost track of him . 
I'm sorry you seem so disappointed , but it is all right . 
The man is his uncle , and as like the boy as he possibly could be . 
He is almost killed to go back without him . 
If you know where Freckles is , they'd give big money to find out . 
The Angel laid a hand along each cheek to steady her chattering teeth . 
Who are they ? she stammered . 
Where are they going ? They are Irish folks , miss , said the matron . 
They have been in Chicago and over the country for the past three months , hunting him everywhere . 
They have given up , and are starting home today . 
They Did they leave an address ? Where could I find them ? interrupted the Angel . 
They left a card , and I notice the morning paper has the man's picture and is full of them . 
They've advertised a great deal in the city papers . 
It's a wonder you haven't seen something . 
We never get Chicago papers , said the Angel . 
Please give me that card quickly . 
I simply must catch them ! The matron hurried to the secretary and came back with a card . 
Their addresses are there , she said . 
Both in Chicago and at their home . 
They made them full and plain , and I was to cable at once if I got the least clue of him at any time . 
If they've left the city , you can stop them in New York . 
You're sure to catch them before they sail if you hurry . 
The matron caught up a paper and thrust it into the Angel's hand as she ran to the street . 
The Angel glanced at the card . 
The Chicago address was Suite Eleven , Auditorium . 
She laid her hand on her driver's sleeve and looked into his eyes . 
There is a fast driving limit ? she asked . 
Will you crowd it all you can without danger of arrest ? I will pay well . 
I must catch some people ! Then she smiled at him . 
I will take you there as quickly as any man could with a team , he said promptly . 
The Angel clung to the card and paper , and as best she could in the lurching , swaying cab , read the addresses over . 
O'More , Suite Eleven , Auditorium . 
Seems to fit Freckles to a dot . 
Wonder if that could be his name ? Suite Eleven' means that you are pretty well fixed . 
Suites in the Auditorium come high . 
Then she turned the card and read on its reverse , Lord Maxwell O'More , M. P. , Killvany Place , County Clare , Ireland . 
The Angel sat on the edge of the seat , bracing her feet against the one opposite , as the cab pitched and swung around corners and past vehicles . 
She mechanically fingered the pasteboard and stared straight ahead . 
Then she drew a deep breath and read the card again . 
A Lord man ! she groaned despairingly . 
It's too mean ! The tears of vexation rolled down the tired , nerve racked Angel's cheeks . 
This isn't going to do , she said , resolutely wiping her eyes with the palm of her hand and gulping down the nervous spasm in her throat . 
I must read this paper before I meet Lord O'More . 
She read on , and realized every word . 
The likeness settled any doubt . 
It was Freckles over again , only older and well dressed . 
Well , I must catch you if I can , muttered the Angel . 
But when I do , if you are a gentleman in name only , you shan't have Freckles that's flat . 
You're not his father and he is twenty . 
Freckles and I both must study years yet , and you should be something that will save him . 
I guess it will come out all right . 
At least , I don't believe you can take him away if I say no . 
Thank you and wait , no matter how long , she said to her driver . 
Catching up the paper , she hurried to the desk and laid down Lord O'More's card . 
Has my uncle started yet ? she asked sweetly . 
The surprised clerk stepped back on a bellboy , and covertly kicked him for being in the way . 
His lordship is in his room , he said , with a low bow . 
All right , said the Angel , picking up the card . 
I thought he might have started . 
The clerk shoved the bellboy toward the Angel . 
Show her ladyship to the elevator and Lord O'More's suite , he said , bowing double . 
Aw , thanks , said the Angel with a slight nod , as she turned away . 
How stupid of me ! At the bellboy's tap , the door swung open and the liveried servant thrust a cardtray before the Angel . 
With perfect control the Angel dropped Lord O'More's card in the tray , stepped past his servant , and stood before his lordship . 
Good morning , she said with tense politeness . 
He carelessly glanced her over with amused curiosity , until her color began to deepen and her blood to run hotly . 
Well , my dear , he said at last , how can I serve you ? Instantly the Angel became indignant . 
She had been so shielded in the midst of almost entire freedom , owing to the circumstances of her life , that the words and the look appeared to her as almost insulting . 
She lifted her head with a proud gesture . 
I am not your dear , she said with slow distinctness . 
There isn't a thing in the world you can do for me . 
I came here to see if I could do something a very great something for you but if I don't like you , I won't do it ! Then Lord O'More did stare . 
Suddenly he broke into a ringing laugh . 
Without a change of attitude or expression , the Angel stood looking steadily at him . 
Terence ! Have you lost your senses ? she cried . 
Didn't you understand what the child said ? Look at her face ! See what she has ! Lord O'More opened his eyes widely and sat up . 
He did look at the Angel's face intently , and suddenly found it so good that it was difficult to follow the next injunction . 
I beg your pardon , he said . 
The fact is , I am leaving Chicago sorely disappointed . 
It makes me bitter and reckless . 
I thought you one more of those queer , useless people who have thrust themselves on me constantly , and I was careless . 
Forgive me , and tell me why you came . 
The Angel found herself yielding to his voice . 
Still , it was a matter of the very greatest importance , and she must be sure so she looked into the beautiful woman's face . 
Are you his wife ? she asked . 
Yes , said the woman , I am his wife . 
Well , said the Angel judicially , the Bird Woman says no one in the whole world knows all a man's bignesses and all his littlenesses as his wife does . 
What you think of him should do for me . 
Do you like him ? The question was so earnestly asked that it met with equal earnestness . 
The dark head moved caressingly against Lord O'More's sleeve . 
Better than anyone in the whole world , said Lady O'More promptly . 
The Angel mused a second , and then her legal tinge came to the fore again . 
Yes , but have you anyone you could like better , if he wasn't all right ? she persisted . 
I have three of his sons , two little daughters , a father , mother , and several brothers and sisters , came the quick reply . 
And you like him best ? persisted the Angel with finality . 
I love him so much that I would give up every one of them with dry eyes if by so doing I could save him , cried Lord O'More's wife . 
Oh ! cried the Angel . 
Oh , my ! She lifted her clear eyes to Lord O'More's and shook her head . 
She never , never could do that ! she said . 
But it's a mighty big thing to your credit that she THINKS she could . 
I guess I'll tell you why I came . 
She laid down the paper , and touched the portrait . 
When you were only a boy , did people call you Freckles ? she asked . 
Dozens of good fellows all over Ireland and the Continent are doing it today , answered Lord O'More . 
The Angel's face wore her most beautiful smile . 
I was sure of it , she said winningly . 
That's what we call him , and he is so like you , I doubt if any one of those three boys of yours are more so . 
But it's been twenty years . 
Seems to me you've been a long time coming ! Lord O'More caught the Angel's wrists and his wife slipped her arms around her . 
Steady , my girl ! said the man's voice hoarsely . 
Don't make me think you've brought word of the boy at this last hour , unless you know surely . 
It's all right , said the Angel . 
We have him , and there's no chance of a mistake . 
I can tell you where Freckles is but whether you deserve to know that's another matter ! Lord O'More did not hear her . 
He dropped in his chair , and covering his face , burst into those terrible sobs that shake and rend a strong man . 
Lady O'More hovered over him , weeping . 
Umph ! Looks pretty fair for Freckles , muttered the Angel . 
Lots of things can be explained now perhaps they can explain this . 
They did explain so satisfactorily that in a few minutes the Angel was on her feet , hurrying Lord and Lady O'More to reach the hospital . 
You said Freckles' old nurse knew his mother's picture instantly , said the Angel . 
I want that picture and the bundle of little clothes . 
Lady O'More gave them into her hands . 
The likeness was a large miniature , painted on ivory , with a frame of beaten gold . 
Surrounded by masses of dark hair was a delicately cut face . 
In the upper part of it there was no trace of Freckles , but the lips curving in a smile were his very own . 
The Angel gazed at it steadily . 
Then with a quivering breath she laid the portrait aside and reached both hands to Lord O'More . 
That will save Freckles' life and insure his happiness , she said positively . 
Thank you , oh thank you for coming ! She opened the bundle of yellow and brown linen and gave only a glance at the texture and work . 
Then she gathered the little clothes and the picture to her heart and led the way to the cab . 
Ushering Lord and Lady O'More into the reception room , she said to McLean , Please go call up my father and ask him to come on the first train . 
She closed the door after him . 
These are Freckles' people , she said to the Bird Woman . 
You can find out about each other I'm going to him . 
CHAPTER XIX Wherein Freckles Finds His Birthright and the Angel Loses Her Heart The nurse left the room quietly , as the Angel entered , carrying the bundle and picture . 
When they were alone , she turned to Freckles and saw that the crisis was indeed at hand . 
That she had good word to give him was his salvation , for despite the heavy plaster jacket that held his body immovable , his head was lifted from the pillow . 
Both arms reached for her . 
His lips and cheeks flamed , while his eyes flashed with excitement . 
The Angel dropped the bundle on the bed and laid the picture face down across his knees . 
She gently pushed his head to the pillow and caught his arms in a firm grasp . 
Yes , dear heart , she said with fullest assurance . 
No little clothes were ever whiter . 
I never in all my life saw such dainty , fine , little stitches and as for loving you , no boy's mother ever loved him more ! A nervous trembling seized Freckles . 
Sure ? Are you sure ? he urged with clicking teeth . 
I know , said the Angel firmly . 
And Freckles , while you rest and be glad , I want to tell you a story . 
When you feel stronger we will look at the clothes together . 
But while I was at the Home getting them , I heard of some people that were hunting a lost boy . 
I went to see them , and what they told me was all so exactly like what might have happened to you that I must tell you . 
Then you'll understand that things could be very different from what you always have tortured yourself with thinking . 
Know ! How can you know ? The Angel gently soothed him back . 
Why , because nobody else would ever sit and do it the way it is done . 
That's how I know , she said emphatically . 
Now you listen while I tell you about this lost boy and his people , who have hunted for months and can't find him . 
Freckles lay quietly under her touch , but he did not hear a word that she was saying until his roving eyes rested on her face he immediately noticed a remarkable thing . 
For the first time she was talking to him and avoiding his eyes . 
That was not like the Angel at all . 
It was the delight of hearing her speak that she looked one squarely in the face and with perfect frankness . 
There were no side glances and down drooping eyes when the Angel talked she was business straight through . 
Instantly Freckles' wandering thoughts fastened on her words . 
and he was a sour , grumpy , old man , she was saying . 
He always had been spoiled , because he was an only son , so he had a title , and a big estate . 
He would have just his way , no matter about his sweet little wife , or his boys , or anyone . 
But that poor younger son , he had been in love with the village vicar's daughter all his life . 
That's no wonder either , for she was more beautiful yet . 
She could sing as the angels , but she hadn't a cent . 
She went to London and began studying music . 
Soon she grew to be a fine singer , so she joined a company and came to this country . 
When the younger son found that she had left London , he followed her . 
He didn't want her to travel with the troupe , so when they reached Chicago they thought that would be a good place , and they stopped , while he hunted work . 
But if he couldn't find work , she could always sing , so she sang at night , and made little things in the daytime . 
He didn't like her to sing in public , and he wouldn't allow her when he could HELP himself but winter came , it was very cold , and fire was expensive . 
Then the man wrote and told his father all about it and his father sent the letter back unopened with a line telling him never to write again . 
Then the man grew desperate and he went just to find something to eat and the woman was desperate , too . 
She got up , left the old woman to take care of her baby , and went into the city to sing for some money . 
The woman became so cold she put the baby in bed and went home . 
Then a boiler blew up in a big factory beside the little house and set it on fire . 
A piece of iron was pitched across and broke through the roof . 
It came down smash , and cut just one little hand off the poor baby . 
It screamed and screamed and the fire kept coming closer and closer . 
The old woman ran out with the other people and saw what had happened . 
She knew there wasn't going to be time to wait for firemen or anything , so she ran into the building . 
She could hear the baby screaming , and she couldn't stand that so she worked her way to it . 
There it was , all hurt and bleeding . 
Then she hid across the street until the baby was taken in , and then she ran back to see if her own house was burning . 
The big factory and the little house and a lot of others were all gone . 
The people there told her that the beautiful lady came back and ran into the house to find her baby . 
She had just gone in when her husband came , and he went in after her , and the house fell over both of them . 
Freckles lay rigidly , with his eyes on the Angel's face , while she talked rapidly to the ceiling . 
Then the old woman was sick about that poor little baby . 
She told them that its mother and father were both burned , and she begged and implored them to come after it . 
You'd think that would have melted a heart of ice , but that old man hadn't any heart to melt , for he got that letter and read it . 
He hid it away among his papers and never told a soul . 
A few months ago he died . 
When his elder son went to settle his business , he found the letter almost the first thing . 
He dropped everything , and came , with his wife , to hunt that baby , because he always had loved his brother dearly , and wanted him back . 
Freckles reached up and turned the Angel's face until he compelled her eyes to meet his . 
Angel , he asked quietly , why don't you look at me when you are telling about that lost boy ? I I didn't know I wasn't , faltered the Angel . 
If they were telling you so much , did they say which hand was for being off that lost boy ? The Angel's eyes escaped again . 
It it was the same as yours , she ventured , barely breathing in her fear . 
Still Freckles lay rigid and whiter than the coverlet . 
Would that boy be as old as me ? he asked . 
Yes , said the Angel faintly . 
She pinioned Freckles' arms to his sides and bent above him . 
How strong are you , dear heart ? she breathed . 
How brave are you ? Can you bear it ? Dare I tell you that ? No ! gasped Freckles . 
Not if you're sure ! I can't bear it ! I'll die if you do ! The day had been one unremitting strain with the Angel . 
Nerve tension was drawn to the finest thread . 
Die , if I tell you that ! You said this morning that you would die if you DIDN'T know your name , and if your people were honorable . 
One second Freckles lay paralyzed and dumb with astonishment . 
The next the Irish in his soul arose above everything . 
A laugh burst from him . 
The terrified Angel caught him in her arms and tried to stifle the sound . 
When he was too worn to utter another sound , his eyes laughed silently . 
Freckles caught her hand and drew her beside him , and together they gazed at the picture while the tears slid over their cheeks . 
Wait ! cried the Angel with inborn refinement , for she could no more answer that question than he could ask . 
Before she had finished came Freckles' voice Angel , are you hurrying ? Yes , said the Angel I am . 
But there is a good deal of it . 
I have to put in your house and country , so that you will feel located . 
Me house ? marveled Freckles . 
Of course , said the Angel . 
Your uncle says your grandmother left your father her dower house and estate , because she knew his father would cut him off . 
You get that , and all your share of your grandfather's property besides . 
It is all set off for you and waiting . 
Lord O'More told me so . 
I suspect you are richer than McLean , Freckles . 
She closed his fingers over the slip and straightened his hair . 
Now you are all right , dear Limberlost guard , she said . 
You go to sleep and don't think of a thing but just pure joy , joy , joy ! I'll keep your people until you wake up . 
You are too tired to see anyone else just now ! Freckles caught her skirt as she turned from him . 
I'll go to sleep in five minutes , he said , if you will be doing just one thing more for me . 
Send for your father ! Oh , Angel , send for him quick ! How will I ever be waiting until he comes ? One instant the Angel stood looking at him . 
The next a crimson wave darkly stained her lovely face . 
Her chin began a spasmodic quivering and the tears sprang into her eyes . 
Her hands caught at her chest as if she were stifling . 
Freckles' grasp on her tightened until he drew her beside him . 
He slipped his arm around her and drew her face to his pillow . 
Don't , Angel for the love of mercy don't be doing that , he implored . 
I can't be bearing it . 
The Angel shook her head . 
That ain't fair , Angel , said Freckles . 
You made me tell you when it was like tearing the heart raw from me breast . 
And you was for making everything heaven just heaven and nothing else for me . 
If I'm so much more now than I was an hour ago , maybe I can be thinking of some way to fix things . 
You will be telling me ? he coaxed , moving his cheek against her hair . 
The Angel's head moved in negation . 
Freckles did a moment of intent thinking . 
Maybe I can be guessing , he whispered . 
Will you be giving me three chances ? There was the faintest possible assent . 
You didn't want me to be knowing me name , guessed Freckles . 
The Angel's head sprang from the pillow and her tear stained face flamed with outraged indignation . 
Why , I did too ! she cried angrily . 
One gone , said Freckles calmly . 
You didn't want me to have relatives , a home , and money . 
I did ! exclaimed the Angel . 
Didn't I go myself , all alone , into the city , and find them when I was afraid as death ? I did too ! Two gone , said Freckles . 
You didn't want the beautifulest girl in the world to be telling me . 
Down went the Angel's face and a heavy sob shook her . 
Freckles' clasp tightened around her shoulders , while his face , in its conflicting emotions , was a study . 
He was so stunned and bewildered by the miracle that had been performed in bringing to light his name and relatives that he had no strength left for elaborate mental processes . 
He could find no word with which to begin to voice the rapture of his heart over that . 
Not for McLean , not for the Bird Woman , not for the Duncans would Freckles have done it but for the Angel if it would make her happy he would do anything . 
Angel , whispered Freckles , with his lips against her hair , you haven't learned your history book very well , or else you've forgotten . 
Forgotten what ? sobbed the Angel . 
Forgotten about the real knight , Ladybird , breathed Freckles . 
The Angel lifted her head and looked into the depths of Freckles' honest gray eyes , and they met hers unwaveringly but the pain in them was pitiful . 
No ! I don't remember anything of the kind ! But all the songbirds of his soul burst into melody over that one little clause When you hadn't asked her . 
But you will , said the Angel . 
You may live to be an old , old man , and then you will . 
I will not ! cried Freckles . 
How can you think it , Angel ? You won't even LOOK as if you remember ? I will not ! persisted Freckles . 
I'll be swearing to it if you want me to . 
I should think you'd be understanding that it ain't no ways possible for me to do it . 
The Angel's tear stained face flashed into dazzling beauty . 
A half hysterical little laugh broke from her heart and bubbled over her lips . 
Oh , Freckles , forgive me ! she cried . 
I've been through so much that I'm scarcely myself , or I wouldn't be here bothering you when you should be sleeping . 
Of course you are ! And when you don't remember , why , then it's the same as if it never happened . 
I was almost killed because I'd gone and spoiled everything , but now it will be all right . 
The wonder would be if I did not . 
Freckles lay dazed with astonishment . 
At last his amazed eyes searched the room for something approaching the human to which he could appeal , and falling on his mother's portrait , he set it before him . 
CHAPTER XX Wherein Freckles returns to the Limberlost , and Lord O'More Sails for Ireland Without Him Freckles' voice ceased , his eyes closed , and his head rolled back from exhaustion . 
The next morning , the Man of Affairs , with a heart filled with misgivings , undertook the interview on which Freckles insisted . 
His fears were without cause . 
Freckles was the soul of honor and simplicity . 
Have they been telling you what's come to me ? he asked without even waiting for a greeting . 
Yes , said the Angel's father . 
Do you think you have the very worst of it clear to your understanding ? Under Freckles' earnest eyes the Man of Affairs answered soberly I think I have , Mr. O'More . 
That was the first time Freckles heard his name from the lips of another . 
One second he lay overcome the next , tears filled his eyes , and he reached out his hand . 
Then the Angel's father understood , and he clasped that hand and held it in a strong , firm grasp . 
Terence , my boy , he said , let me do the talking . 
I came here with the understanding that you wanted to ask me for my only child . 
Bend all of your energies toward rapid recovery , and from this hour understand that my daughter and my home are yours . 
You're not forgetting this ? Freckles lifted his right arm . 
Terence , I'm sorrier than I have words to express about that , said the Man of Affairs . 
Good day , sir ! One minute more , said Freckles . 
Yesterday the Angel was telling me that there was money coming to me from two sources . 
Whatever the sum is that me grandmother left me father , because she loved him and wanted him to be having it , that I'll be taking . 
'Twas hers from her father , and she had the right to be giving it as she chose . 
We don't want any blood money ! We have all we need without it . 
If you don't feel right and easy over it , don't you touch a cent of any of it . 
We have done all we can for Freckles . 
They are very anxious to become acquainted with him . 
We'll resign him to them . 
When he is well , why , then he will be perfectly free to go to Ireland or come to the Limberlost , just as he chooses . 
We will go at once . 
McLean held out for a week , and then he could endure it no longer . 
He was heart hungry for Freckles . 
Communing with himself in the long , soundful nights of the swamp , he had learned to his astonishment that for the past year his heart had been circling the Limberlost with Freckles . 
He began to wish that he had not left him . 
Perhaps the boy his boy by first right , after all was being neglected . 
If the Boss had been a nervous old woman , he scarcely could have imagined more things that might be going wrong . 
He traveled with biting , stinging jealousy in his heart . 
He would not admit it even to himself , but he was unable to remain longer away from Freckles and leave him to the care of Lord O'More . 
Every word he uttered was pungent with bitterness to McLean . 
The swamp had lost its flavor without Freckles and yet , as Lord O'More talked , McLean fervently wished himself in the heart of it . 
As he entered Freckles' room he almost lost his breath . 
Freckles lay beside a window where he could follow Lake Michigan's blue until the horizon dipped into it . 
He could see big soft clouds , white capped waves , shimmering sails , and puffing steamers trailing billowing banners of lavender and gray across the sky . 
Gulls and curlews wheeled over the water and dipped their wings in the foam . 
The room was filled with every luxury that taste and money could introduce . 
All the tan and sunburn had been washed from Freckles' face in sweats of agony . 
It was a smooth , even white , its brown rift scarcely showing . 
What the nurses and Lady O'More had done to Freckles' hair McLean could not guess , but it was the most beautiful that he ever had seen . 
Fine as floss , bright in color , waving and crisp , it fell around the white face . 
They had gotten his arms into and his chest covered with a finely embroidered , pale blue silk shirt , with soft , white tie at the throat . 
Freckles was using the maimed arm that previously he always had hidden . 
Oh Lord , sir , but I'm glad to see you ! cried Freckles , almost rolling from the bed as he reached toward McLean . 
How are all the gang ? Have they found any more good trees ? I've been thinking a lot , sir . 
I believe I can find others near that last one . 
Me Aunt Alice thinks maybe I can , and Uncle Terence says it's likely . 
Golly , but they're nice , ilegant people . 
I'm selecting the Angel's ring stone . 
The ring she ordered for me is finished and they sent it to keep me company . 
See ? It's an emerald just me color , Lord O'More says . 
Ain't that fine ? Never took so much comfort with anything in me life . 
Every color of the old swamp is in it . 
Ain't that a beautiful song ? Some of these days I'm going to make it echo . 
I'm a little afraid to be doing it with me voice yet , but me heart's tuning away on it every blessed hour . 
Will you be looking at these now ? Freckles tilted a tray of unset stones from Peacock's that would have ransomed several valuable kings . 
He held them toward McLean , stirring them with his right arm . 
I tell you I'm glad to see you , sir he said . 
I tried to tell me uncle what I wanted , but this ain't for him to be mixed up in , anyway , and I don't think I made it clear to him . 
I couldn't seem to say the words I wanted . 
I can be telling you , sir . 
McLean's heart began to thump as a lover's . 
Go on , Freckles , he said assuringly . 
It's this , said Freckles . 
I told him that I would pay only three hundred dollars for the Angel's stone . 
I'm thinking that with what he has laid up for me , and the bigness of things that the Angel did for me , it seems like a stingy little sum to him . 
You want to give for it your first awful fear of the swamp . 
You want to pay for it with the loneliness and heart hunger you have suffered there , with last winter's freezing on the line and this summer's burning in the sun . 
You want it to stand to her for every hour in which you risked your life to fulfill your contract honorably . 
You want the price of that stone to be the fears that have chilled your heart the sweat and blood of your body . 
Freckles' eyes were filled with tears and his face quivering with feeling . 
Dear Mr. McLean , he said , reaching with a caress over the Boss's black hair and his cheek . 
Dear Boss , that's why I've wanted you so . 
I knew you would know . 
Now you will be looking at these ? I don't want emeralds , because that's what she gave me . 
He pushed the green stones into a little heap of rejected ones . 
Then he singled out all the pearls . 
Ain't they pretty things ? he said . 
I'll be getting her some of those later . 
Freckles heaped the pearls with the emeralds . 
He studied the diamonds a long time . 
These things are so fascinating like they almost tempt one , though they ain't quite the proper thing , he said . 
I've always dearly loved to be watching yours , sir . 
I must get her some of these big ones , too , some day . 
The diamonds joined the emeralds and pearls . 
There was left a little red heap , and Freckles' fingers touched it with a new tenderness . 
I'm thinking here's me Angel's stone , he exulted . 
There's the light of the campfire , and the sun setting over Sleepy Snake Creek . 
There's the red of the blood we were willing to give for each other . 
Freckles lifted the ruby to his lips and handed it to McLean . 
I'll be signing me cheque and you have it set , he said . 
I want you to draw me money and pay for it with those very same dollars , sir . 
Again the heart of McLean took hope . 
Freckles , may I ask you something ? he said . 
Why , sure , said Freckles . 
There's nothing you would be asking that it wouldn't be giving me joy to be telling you . 
McLean's eyes traveled to Freckles' right arm with which he was moving the jewels . 
Oh , that ! cried Freckles with a laugh . 
You're wanting to know where all the bitterness is gone ? Well sir , 'twas carried from me soul , heart , and body on the lips of an Angel . 
Seems that hurt was necessary in the beginning to make today come true . 
The wound had always been raw , but the Angel was healing it . 
If she doesn't care , I don't . 
Me dear new father doesn't , nor me aunt and uncle , and you never did . 
Why should I be fretting all me life about what can't be helped . 
The real truth is , that since what happened to it last week , I'm so everlastingly proud of it I catch meself sticking it out on display a bit . 
Freckles looked the Boss in the eyes and began to laugh . 
Well thank heaven ! said McLean . 
Now it's me turn , said Freckles . 
I don't know as I ought to be asking you , and yet I can't see a reason good enough to keep me from it . 
It's a thing I've had on me mind every hour since I've had time to straighten things out a little . 
May I be asking you a question ? McLean reached over and took Freckles' hand . 
His voice was shaken with feeling as he replied Freckles , you almost hurt me . 
My ideas were rather hazy . 
I thought we would make a beginning and see which way things went . 
I figured on taking you to Grand Rapids first , and putting you in the care of my mother . 
Then I thought we'd finish in this country at Yale or Harvard , and end with Oxford , to get a good , all round flavor . 
Is that all ? asked Freckles . 
No that's leaving the music out , said McLean . 
Finally , I wanted us to take a trip through Europe and clear around the circle together And then what ? queried Freckles breathlessly . 
Why , then , said McLean , you know that my heart is hopelessly in the woods . 
I never will quit the timber business while there is timber to handle and breath in my body . 
Those plans may sound jumbled in the telling , but they have grown steadily on me , Freckles , as you have grown dear to me . 
Freckles lifted anxious and eager eyes to McLean . 
You told me once on the trail , and again when we thought that I was dying , that you loved me . 
Do these things that have come to me make any difference in any way with your feeing toward me ? None , said McLean . 
How could they , Freckles ? Nothing could make me love you more , and you never will do anything that will make me love you less . 
Glory be to God ! cried Freckles . 
This is a mighty fine view , he said . 
No wonder Chicago people are so proud of their city's location on its shore . 
But , Freckles , what is Lord O'More going to say to this ? I don't know , said Freckles . 
I am going to be cut deep if he cares , for he's been more than good to me , and Lady Alice is next to me Angel . 
He's made me feel me blood and race me own possession . 
She's talked to me by the hour of me father and mother and me grandmother . 
She's made them all that real I can lay claim to them and feel that they are mine . 
I'm very sorry to be hurting them , if it will , but it can't be changed . 
Nobody ever puts the width of the ocean between me and the Angel . 
From here to the Limberlost is all I can be bearing peaceable . 
I want the education , and then I want to work and live here in the country where I was born , and where the ashes of me father and mother rest . 
I'll be glad to see Ireland , and glad especial to see those little people who are my kin , but I ain't ever staying long . 
All me heart is the Angel's , and the Limberlost is calling every minute . 
You're thinking , sir , that when I look from that window I see the beautiful water , ain't you ? I'm not . 
I see soft , slow clouds oozing across the blue , me big black chickens hanging up there , and a great feather softly sliding down . 
I see mighty trees , swinging vines , bright flowers , and always masses of the wild roses , with the wild rose face of me Ladybird looking through . 
Me heart's all me Swamp Angel's , and me love is all hers , and I have her and the swamp so confused in me mind I never can be separating them . 
Send Lady O'More to put these flowers God made in the place of these glass house ilegancies , and please be cutting the string of this little package the Angel's sent me . 
As Freckles held up the package , the lights of the Limberlost flashed from the emerald on his finger . 
On the cover was printed To the Limberlost Guard ! Under it was a big , crisp , iridescent black feather . 
