Father Sergius by Leo Tolstoy Trans . 
Louise and Aylmer Maude This etext was perpared by Judith Boss of Omaha , NE . 
Father Sergius I In Petersburg in the eighteen forties a surprising event occurred . 
The widow herself , with her daughter , Varvara , moved to Petersburg to be near her son and have him with her for the holidays . 
The boy was distinguished both by his brilliant ability and by his immense self esteem . 
He was first both in his studies especially in mathematics , of which he was particularly fond and also in drill and in riding . 
Though of more than average height , he was handsome and agile , and he would have been an altogether exemplary cadet had it not been for his quick temper . 
He was remarkably truthful , and was neither dissipated nor addicted to drink . 
The only faults that marred his conduct were fits of fury to which he was subject and during which he lost control of himself and became like a wild animal . 
He once nearly threw out of the window another cadet who had begun to tease him about his collection of minerals . 
He would certainly have been reduced to the ranks had not the Director of the College hushed up the whole matter and dismissed the steward . 
By the time he was eighteen he had finished his College course and received a commission as lieutenant in an aristocratic regiment of the Guards . 
Kasatsky himself strongly desired it , not from ambition only but chiefly because since his cadet days he had been passionately devoted to Nicholas Pavlovich . 
Indeed , his passionate adoration of the Emperor was even stronger he wished to sacrifice something everything , even himself to prove his complete devotion . 
And the Emperor Nicholas was conscious of evoking this rapture and deliberately aroused it . 
He played with the cadets , surrounded himself with them , treating them sometimes with childish simplicity , sometimes as a friend , and then again with majestic solemnity . 
There are some things I would rather not know , but they remain here , and he pointed to his heart . 
All the cadets were as usual greatly moved , and Kasatsky even shed tears , remembering the past , and vowed that he would serve his beloved Tsar with all his soul . 
When Kasatsky took up his commission his mother moved with her daughter first to Moscow and then to their country estate . 
Kasatsky gave half his property to his sister and kept only enough to maintain himself in the expensive regiment he had joined . 
To all appearance he was just an ordinary , brilliant young officer of the Guards making a career for himself but intense and complex strivings went on within him . 
From early childhood his efforts had seemed to be very varied , but essentially they were all one and the same . 
He tried in everything he took up to attain such success and perfection as would evoke praise and surprise . 
Whether it was his studies or his military exercises , he took them up and worked at them till he was praised and held up as an example to others . 
Mastering one subject he took up another , and obtained first place in his studies . 
And as soon as it was attained another aim would immediately present itself , replacing its predecessor . 
This passion for distinguishing himself , or for accomplishing something in order to distinguish himself , filled his life . 
Then he took to reading , having once in conversation in society felt himself deficient in general education and again achieved his purpose . 
But this did not satisfy him he was accustomed to being first , and in this society was far from being so . 
Kasatsky did not belong to the first two sets , but was readily welcomed in the others . 
On entering society he determined to have relations with some society lady , and to his own surprise quickly accomplished this purpose . 
They were polite to him , but showed by their whole manner that they had their own set and that he was not of it . 
And Kasatsky wished to belong to that inner circle . 
Kasatsky began to pay court to her , and not merely for the sake of his career . 
She was extremely attractive and he soon fell in love with her . 
At first she was noticeably cool towards him , but then suddenly changed and became gracious , and her mother gave him pressing invitations to visit them . 
Kasatsky proposed and was accepted . 
He was surprised at the facility with which he attained such happiness . 
Two weeks before the day arranged for the wedding , Kasatsky was at Tsarskoe Selo at his fiancee's country place . 
It was a hot day in May . 
He and his betrothed had walked about the garden and were sitting on a bench in a shady linden alley . 
was , I think , of value . 
The girls , perceiving such adoration , endeavoured with more or less success to be goddesses . 
Such was the view Kasatsky held of women , and that was how he regarded his fiancee . 
He was particularly in love that day , but did not experience any sensual desire for her . 
On the contrary he regarded her with tender adoration as something unattainable . 
He rose to his full height , standing before her with both hands on his sabre . 
'I have only now realized what happiness a man can experience ! And it is you , my darling , who have given me this happiness , he said with a timid smile . 
Endearments had not yet become usual between them , and feeling himself morally inferior he felt terrified at this stage to use them to such an angel . 
'It is thanks to you that I have come to know myself . 
I have learnt that I am better than I thought . 
'I have known that for a long time . 
That was why I began to love you . 
Nightingales trilled near by and the fresh leafage rustled , moved by a passing breeze . 
He took her hand and kissed it , and tears came into his eyes . 
She understood that he was thanking her for having said she loved him . 
He silently took a few steps up and down , and then approached her again and sat down . 
I have to tell you . 
I was not disinterested when I began to make love to you . 
I wanted to get into society but later . 
how unimportant that became in comparison with you when I got to know you . 
You are not angry with me for that ? She did not reply but merely touched his hand . 
He understood that this meant 'No , I am not angry . 
It seemed too bold to say . 
'You said that you began to love me . 
I believe it but there is something that troubles you and checks your feeling . 
What is it ? 'Yes now or never ! thought she . 
'He is bound to know of it anyway . 
But now he will not forsake me . 
Ah , if he should , it would be terrible ! And she threw a loving glance at his tall , noble , powerful figure . 
She loved him now more than she had loved the Tsar , and apart from the Imperial dignity would not have preferred the Emperor to him . 
'Listen ! I cannot deceive you . 
I have to tell you . 
You ask what it is ? It is that I have loved before . 
She again laid her hand on his with an imploring gesture . 
'You want to know who it was ? It was the Emperor . 
I can imagine you , a schoolgirl at the Institute . 
'No , it was later . 
I was infatuated , but it passed . 
'Well , what of it ? 'No , it was not simply She covered her face with her hands . 
'What ? You gave yourself to him ? She was silent . 
'His mistress ? She did not answer . 
He sprang up and stood before her with trembling jaws , pale as death . 
He now remembered how the Emperor , meeting him on the Nevsky , had amiably congratulated him . 
'O God , what have I done ! Stiva ! 'Don't touch me ! Don't touch me ! Oh , how it pains ! He turned away and went to the house . 
There he met her mother . 
'What is the matter , Prince ? I . 
She became silent on seeing his face . 
The blood had suddenly rushed to his head . 
'You knew it , and used me to shield them ! If you weren't a woman . 
! he cried , lifting his enormous fist , and turning aside he ran away . 
Had his fiancee's lover been a private person he would have killed him , but it was his beloved Tsar . 
Next day he applied both for furlough and his discharge , and professing to be ill , so as to see no one , he went away to the country . 
He spent the summer at his village arranging his affairs . 
When summer was over he did not return to Petersburg , but entered a monastery and there became a monk . 
His mother wrote to try to dissuade him from this decisive step , but he replied that he felt God's call which transcended all other considerations . 
Only his sister , who was as proud and ambitious as he , understood him . 
She understood that he had become a monk in order to be above those who considered themselves his superiors . 
And she understood him correctly . 
But it was not this alone , as his sister Varvara supposed , that influenced him . 
II Kasatsky entered the monastery on the feast of the Intercession of the Blessed Virgin . 
To this Abbot Kasatsky submitted himself as to his chosen director . 
This last quality in particular made life far easier for him . 
All possibility of doubt about anything was silenced by obedience to the starets . 
As it was , he not only bore it all joyfully but found in it solace and support . 
'I don't know why it is necessary to hear the same prayers several times a day , but I know that it is necessary and knowing this I find joy in them . 
This was the result of his consciousness of humility , and the certainty that whatever he had to do , being fixed by the starets , was right . 
Even victory over the sins of the flesh , greed and lust , was easily attained . 
His director had specially warned him against the latter sin , but Kasatsky felt free from it and was glad . 
One thing only tormented him the remembrance of his fiancee and not merely the remembrance but the vivid image of what might have been . 
Involuntarily he recalled a lady he knew who had been a favourite of the Emperor's , but had afterwards married and become an admirable wife and mother . 
The husband had a high position , influence and honour , and a good and penitent wife . 
In his better hours Kasatsky was not disturbed by such thoughts , and when he recalled them at such times he was merely glad to feel that the temptation was past . 
The only thing that saved him in that state of mind was obedience and work , and the fact that the whole day was occupied by prayer . 
This condition would continue for a day , or sometimes for two days , and would then pass of itself . 
But those days were dreadful . 
Kasatsky felt that he was neither in his own hands nor in God's , but was subject to something else . 
All he could do then was to obey the starets , to restrain himself , to undertake nothing , and simply to wait . 
In general all this time he lived not by his own will but by that of the starets , and in this obedience he found a special tranquillity . 
So he lived in his first monastery for seven years . 
At the end of the third year he received the tonsure and was ordained to the priesthood by the name of Sergius . 
The profession was an important event in his inner life . 
He had previously experienced a great consolation and spiritual exaltation when receiving communion , and now when he himself officiated , the performance of the preparation filled him with ecstatic and deep emotion . 
And it did in fact weaken till only the habit remained . 
In general in the seventh year of his life in the monastery Sergius grew weary . 
He had learnt all there was to learn and had attained all there was to attain , there was nothing more to do and his spiritual drowsiness increased . 
During this time he heard of his mother's death and his sister Varvara's marriage , but both events were matters of indifference to him . 
His whole attention and his whole interest were concentrated on his inner life . 
Then monastic ambition , the very thing he had found so repulsive in other monks , arose within him . 
He was assigned to a monastery near the metropolis . 
He wished to refuse but the starets ordered him to accept the appointment . 
He did so , and took leave of the starets and moved to the other monastery . 
The exchange into the metropolitan monastery was an important event in Sergius's life . 
There he encountered many temptations , and his whole will power was concentrated on meeting them . 
In the first monastery , women had not been a temptation to him , but here that temptation arose with terrible strength and even took definite shape . 
There was a lady known for her frivolous behaviour who began to seek his favour . 
She talked to him and asked him to visit her . 
Sergius sternly declined , but was horrified by the definiteness of his desire . 
He was so alarmed that he wrote about it to the starets . 
Struggle with himself as he might , he could not master that feeling . 
He was submissive to the Abbot , but in the depths of his soul he never ceased to condemn him . 
And in the second year of his residence at the new monastery that ill feeling broke out . 
The Vigil service was being performed in the large church on the eve of the feast of the Intercession of the Blessed Virgin , and there were many visitors . 
The Abbot himself was conducting the service . 
This conflict was occasioned by his irritation at the presence of fine folk , especially ladies . 
So he stood , crossing and prostrating himself when necessary , and struggled with himself , now giving way to cold condemnation and now to a consciously evoked obliteration of thought and feeling . 
Father Sergius straightened his mantle , put on his biretta , and went circumspectly through the crowd . 
'Lise , regarde a droite , c'est lui ! he heard a woman's voice say . 
'Ou , ou ? Il n'est pas tellement beau . 
He knew that they were speaking of him . 
On entering the sanctuary he bowed , crossing himself as usual and bending double before the icons . 
Then , raising his head but without turning , he glanced out of the corner of his eye at the Abbot , whom he saw standing beside another glittering figure . 
The Abbot was standing by the wall in his vestments . 
This general had been the commander of the regiment in which Sergius had served . 
'Very pleased to see you in your angelic guise , said the general , holding out his hand . 
'I hope you have not forgotten an old comrade . 
He bowed again to the Abbot and said 'Your reverence deigned to send for me ? and stopped , the whole expression of his face and eyes asking why . 
'Yes , to meet the General , replied the Abbot . 
'Your reverence , I left the world to save myself from temptation , said Father Sergius , turning pale and with quivering lips . 
'Why do you expose me to it during prayers and in God's house ? 'You may go ! Go ! said the Abbot , flaring up and frowning . 
He wrote that he felt his weakness and incapacity to struggle against temptation without his help and penitently confessed his sin of pride . 
By return of post came a letter from the starets , who wrote that Sergius's pride was the cause of all that had happened . 
'There now , am I not a splendid man not to want anything ? That was why he could not tolerate the Abbot's action . 
'I have renounced everything for the glory of God , and here I am exhibited like a wild beast ! 'Had you renounced vanity for God's sake you would have borne it . 
Worldly pride is not yet dead in you . 
I have thought about you , Sergius my son , and prayed also , and this is what God has suggested to me . 
At the Tambov hermitage the anchorite Hilary , a man of saintly life , has died . 
He had lived there eighteen years . 
The Tambov Abbot is asking whether there is not a brother who would take his place . 
And here comes your letter . 
Go to Father Paissy of the Tambov Monastery . 
I will write to him about you , and you must ask for Hilary's cell . 
Not that you can replace Hilary , but you need solitude to quell your pride . 
The cell was a dual cave , dug into the hillside , and in it Hilary had been buried . 
Outside the outer door , which fastened with a hook , was another shelf on which , once a day , a monk placed food from the monastery . 
And so Sergius became a hermit . 
The company consisted of two lawyers , a wealthy landowner , an officer , and four ladies . 
The weather was excellent and the snow covered road smooth as a floor . 
They drove some seven miles out of town , and then stopped and consulted as to whether they should turn back or drive farther . 
'But where does this road lead to ? asked Makovkina , the beautiful divorcee . 
'To Tambov , eight miles from here , replied one of the lawyers , who was having a flirtation with her . 
'And then where ? 'Then on to L , past the Monastery . 
'Where that Father Sergius lives ? 'Yes . 
'Kasatsky , the handsome hermit ? 'Yes . 
'Mesdames et messieurs , let us drive on and see Kasatsky ! We can stop at Tambov and have something to eat . 
'But we shouldn't get home to night ! 'Never mind , we will stay at Kasatsky's . 
'Well , there is a very good hostelry at the Monastery . 
I stayed there when I was defending Makhin . 
'A DISCRETION ! 'But on your side too ! 'Yes , of course . 
Vodka was handed to the drivers , and the party got out a box of pies , wine , and sweets for themselves . 
The ladies wrapped up in their white dogskins . 
The drivers disputed as to whose troyka should go ahead , and the youngest , seating himself sideways with a dashing air , swung his long knout and shouted to the horses . 
The troyka bells tinkled and the sledge runners squeaked over the snow . 
The sledge swayed hardly at all . 
One of the lawyers and the officer sitting opposite talked nonsense to Makovkina's neighbour , but Makovkina herself sat motionless and in thought , tightly wrapped in her fur . 
I want something that would upset it all and turn it upside down . 
Suppose it happened to us as to those people at Saratov was it ? who kept on driving and froze to death . 
What would our people do ? How would they behave ? Basely , for certain . 
And I too should act badly . 
But I at any rate have beauty . 
And how about that monk ? Is it possible that he has become indifferent to it ? No ! That is the one thing they all care for like that cadet last autumn . 
What a fool he was ! 'Ivan Nikolaevich ! she said aloud . 
'What are your commands ? 'How old is he ? 'Who ? 'Kasatsky . 
'Over forty , I should think . 
'And does he receive all visitors ? 'Yes , everybody , but not always . 
Not like that how clumsy you are ! No ! More , more like that ! But you need not squeeze them ! So they came to the forest where the cell was . 
Makovkina got out of the sledge , and told them to drive on . 
They tried to dissuade her , but she grew irritable and ordered them to go on . 
When the sledges had gone she went up the path in her white dogskin coat . 
The lawyer got out and stopped to watch her . 
It was Father Sergius's sixth year as a recluse , and he was now forty nine . 
but on account of an inner conflict he had not at all anticipated . 
The sources of that conflict were two doubts , and the lust of the flesh . 
And these two enemies always appeared together . 
It seemed to him that they were two foes , but in reality they were one and the same . 
As soon as doubt was gone so was the lustful desire . 
But thinking them to be two different fiends he fought them separately . 
'O my God , my God ! thought he . 
'Why dost thou not grant me faith ? There is lust , of course even the saints had to fight that Saint Anthony and others . 
But they had faith , while I have moments , hours , and days , when it is absent . 
'Vile creature ! And it is you who wish to become a saint ! he upbraided himself , and he began to pray . 
'No , that is not right . 
I may deceive others , but not myself or God . 
Then he dropped the folds of the cassock again and began reading the prayers , making the sign of the cross and prostrating himself . 
'Can it be that this couch will be my bier ? he read . 
And it seemed as if a devil whispered to him 'A solitary couch is itself a bier . 
Falsehood ! And in imagination he saw the shoulders of a widow with whom he had lived . 
He shook himself , and went on reading . 
Having read the precepts he took up the Gospels , opened the book , and happened on a passage he often repeated and knew by heart 'Lord , I believe . 
Help thou my unbelief ! and he put away all the doubts that had arisen . 
As one replaces an object of insecure equilibrium , so he carefully replaced his belief on its shaky pedestal and carefully stepped back from it so as not to shake or upset it . 
He crossed himself and lay down on the bedding on his narrow bench , tucking his summer cassock under his head . 
He fell asleep at once , and in his light slumber he seemed to hear the tinkling of sledge bells . 
He did not know whether he was dreaming or awake , but a knock at the door aroused him . 
He sat up , distrusting his senses , but the knock was repeated . 
Yes , it was a knock close at hand , at his door , and with it the sound of a woman's voice . 
And a tender , timid , pleasant voice . 
Phui ! And he spat to exorcise the devil . 
He sank down , his hair hanging over his face , and pressed his head , already going bald in front , to the cold damp strip of drugget on the draughty floor . 
He read the psalm old Father Pimon had told him warded off temptation . 
He easily raised his light and emaciated body on his strong sinewy legs and tried to continue saying his prayers , but instead of doing so he involuntarily strained his hearing . 
He wished to hear more . 
From the corner of the roof regular drops continued to fall into the tub below . 
Outside was a mist and fog eating into the snow that lay on the ground . 
It was still , very still . 
'Let God arise and let his enemies be scattered . 
'But I am not a devil ! It was obvious that the lips that uttered this were smiling . 
'I am not a devil , but only a sinful woman who has lost her way , not figuratively but literally ! She laughed . 
'I am frozen and beg for shelter . 
He pressed his face to the window , but the little icon lamp was reflected by it and shone on the whole pane . 
He put his hands to both sides of his face and peered between them . 
Fog , mist , a tree , and just opposite him she herself . 
After that glance to imagine her to be a devil and not a simple , kindly , sweet , timid woman , was impossible . 
'Who are you ? Why have you come ? he asked . 
'Do please open the door ! she replied , with capricious authority . 
I tell you I have lost my way . 
'But I am a monk a hermit . 
'Oh , do please open the door or do you wish me to freeze under your window while you say your prayers ? 'But how have you . 
For God's sake let me in ! I am quite frozen . 
She really did feel afraid , and said this in an almost tearful voice . 
He stepped back from the window and looked at an icon of the Saviour in His crown of thorns . 
'Lord , help me ! Lord , help me ! he exclaimed , crossing himself and bowing low . 
Then he went to the door , and opening it into the tiny porch , felt for the hook that fastened the outer door and began to lift it . 
She was coming from the window to the door . 
'Ah ! she suddenly exclaimed , and he understood that she had stepped into the puddle that the dripping from the roof had formed at the threshold . 
His hands trembled , and he could not raise the hook of the tightly closed door . 
'Oh , what are you doing ? Let me in ! I am all wet . 
I am frozen ! You are thinking about saving your soul and are letting me freeze to death . 
He jerked the door towards him , raised the hook , and without considering what he was doing , pushed it open with such force that it struck her . 
'Oh PARDON ! he suddenly exclaimed , reverting completely to his old manner with ladies . 
She smiled on hearing that PARDON . 
'He is not quite so terrible , after all , she thought . 
It is you who must pardon me , she said , stepping past him . 
'I should never have ventured , but such an extraordinary circumstance . 
'If you please ! he uttered , and stood aside to let her pass him . 
A strong smell of fine scent , which he had long not encountered , struck him . 
She went through the little porch into the cell where he lived . 
He closed the outer door without fastening the hook , and stepped in after her . 
'If you please ! he said to her again . 
She stood in the middle of the room , moisture dripping from her to the floor as she looked him over . 
'Forgive me for having disturbed your solitude . 
But you see what a position I am in . 
It all came about from our starting from town for a sledge drive , and my making a bet that I would walk back by myself from the Vorobevka to the town . 
But then I lost my way , and if I had not happened to come upon your cell . 
She began lying , but his face confused her so that she could not continue , but became silent . 
She had not expected him to be at all such as he was . 
He saw that she was lying . 
so , said he , looking at her and again lowering his eyes . 
'I will go in there , and this place is at your disposal . 
She had not got at all wet when standing under the window , and had said so only as a pretext to get him to let her in . 
But she really had stepped into the puddle at the door , and her left foot was wet up to the ankle and her overshoe full of water . 
She sat down on his bed a bench only covered by a bit of carpet and began to take off her boots . 
The little cell seemed to her charming . 
The narrow little room , some seven feet by nine , was as clean as glass . 
There was nothing in it but the bench on which she was sitting , the book shelf above it , and a lectern in the corner . 
A sheepskin coat and a cassock hung on nails by the door . 
Above the lectern was the little lamp and an icon of Christ in His crown of thorns . 
The room smelt strangely of perspiration and of earth . 
It all pleased her even that smell . 
'He did not respond , but what of that ? she said to herself . 
'Father Sergius ! Father Sergius ! Or how does one call you ? 'What do you want ? replied a quiet voice . 
'Please forgive me for disturbing your solitude , but really I could not help it . 
I should simply have fallen ill . 
And I don't know that I shan't now . 
I am all wet and my feet are like ice . 
'Pardon me , replied the quiet voice . 
'I cannot be of any assistance to you . 
'I would not have disturbed you if I could have helped it . 
I am only here till daybreak . 
He did not reply and she heard him muttering something , probably his prayers . 
'You will not be coming in here ? she asked , smiling . 
'For I must undress to dry myself . 
He did not reply , but continued to read his prayers . 
'Yes , that is a man ! thought she , getting her dripping boot off with difficulty . 
She tugged at it , but could not get it off . 
The absurdity of it struck her and she began to laugh almost inaudibly . 
'Yes , I could love a man like that such eyes and such a simple noble face , and passionate too despite all the prayers he mutters ! thought she . 
'You can't deceive a woman in these things . 
As soon as he put his face to the window and saw me , he understood and knew . 
The glimmer of it was in his eyes and remained there . 
He began to love me and desired me . 
Yes desired ! said she , getting her overshoe and her boot off at last and starting to take off her stockings . 
To remove those long stockings fastened with elastic it was necessary to raise her skirts . 
She felt embarrassed and said 'Don't come in ! But there was no reply from the other side of the wall . 
The steady muttering continued and also a sound of moving . 
'He is prostrating himself to the ground , no doubt , thought she . 
'But he won't bow himself out of it . 
He is thinking of me just as I am thinking of him . 
She sat a while like that with her arms round her knees and looking pensively before her . 
'But it is a desert , here in this silence . 
No one would ever know . 
She rose , took her stockings over to the stove , and hung them on the damper . 
There was complete silence on the other side of the partition . 
She looked at the tiny watch that hung round her neck . 
'Our party should return about three ! She had not more than an hour before her . 
'Well , am I to sit like this all alone ? What nonsense ! I don't want to . 
I will call him at once . 
'Father Sergius , Father Sergius ! Sergey Dmitrich ! Prince Kasatsky ! Beyond the partition all was silent . 
'Listen ! This is cruel . 
I would not call you if it were not necessary . 
I don't know what is the matter with me ! she exclaimed in a tone of suffering . 
'Oh ! Oh ! she groaned , falling back on the bench . 
And strange to say she really felt that her strength was failing , that she was becoming faint , that everything in her ached , and that she was shivering with fever . 
'Listen ! Help me ! I don't know what is the matter with me . 
Oh ! Oh ! She unfastened her dress , exposing her breast , and lifted her arms , bare to the elbow . 
'Oh ! Oh ! All this time he stood on the other side of the partition and prayed . 
He felt his own weakness , and that he might be lost at any moment . 
That was why he prayed unceasingly . 
He felt rather as the hero in the fairy tale must have felt when he had to go on and on without looking round . 
But suddenly the desire to look seized him . 
At the same instant she said 'This is inhuman . 
'Yes , I will go to her , but like the Saint who laid one hand on the adulteress and thrust his other into the brazier . 
But there is no brazier here . 
The lamp ! He put his finger over the flame and frowned , preparing himself to suffer . 
There he felt for the block and for an axe which leant against the wall . 
The finger flew off more lightly than a stick of similar thickness , and bounding up , turned over on the edge of the block and then fell to the floor . 
He heard it fall before he felt any pain , but before he had time to be surprised he felt a burning pain and the warmth of flowing blood . 
She jumped up , seized her fur cloak , and throwing it round her shoulders , wrapped herself up in it . 
Pray that God may forgive us ! She listened and looked at him . 
Suddenly she heard the sound of something dripping . 
She looked down and saw that blood was flowing from his hand and down his cassock . 
'What have you done to your hand ? She remembered the sound she had heard , and seizing the little lamp ran out into the porch . 
There on the floor she saw the bloody finger . 
She returned with her face paler than his and was about to speak to him , but he silently passed into the back cell and fastened the door . 
'Forgive me ! she said . 
'How can I atone for my sin ? 'Go away . 
'Let me tie up your hand . 
She dressed hurriedly and silently , and when ready sat waiting in her furs . 
The sledge bells were heard outside . 
'Father Sergius , forgive me ! 'Go away . 
'Father Sergius ! I will change my life . 
Do not forsake me ! 'Go away . 
'Forgive me and give me your blessing ! 'In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost ! she heard his voice from behind the partition . 
'Go ! She burst into sobs and left the cell . 
The lawyer came forward to meet her . 
'Well , I see I have lost the bet . 
Where will you sit ? 'It is all the same to me . 
She took a seat in the sledge , and did not utter a word all the way home . 
A year later she entered a convent as a novice , and lived a strict life under the direction of the hermit Arseny , who wrote letters to her at long intervals . 
IV Father Sergius lived as a recluse for another seven years . 
At first he accepted much of what people brought him tea , sugar , white bread , milk , clothing , and fire wood . 
But as time went on he led a more and more austere life , refusing everything superfluous , and finally he accepted nothing but rye bread once a week . 
Everything else that was brought to him he gave to the poor who came to him . 
He spent his entire time in his cell , in prayer or in conversation with callers , who became more and more numerous as time went on . 
Only three times a year did he go out to church , and when necessary he went out to fetch water and wood . 
The episode with Makovkina had occurred after five years of his hermit life . 
That occurrence soon became generally known her nocturnal visit , the change she underwent , and her entry into a convent . 
From that time Father Sergius's fame increased . 
More and more visitors came to see him , other monks settled down near his cell , and a church was erected there and also a hostelry . 
His fame , as usual exaggerating his feats , spread ever more and more widely . 
People began to come to him from a distance , and began bringing invalids to him whom they declared he cured . 
His first cure occurred in the eighth year of his life as a hermit . 
It was the healing of a fourteen year old boy , whose mother brought him to Father Sergius insisting that he should lay his hand on the child's head . 
It had never occurred to Father Sergius that he could cure the sick . 
When Father Sergius assured her that only God could heal the sick , she replied that she only wanted him to lay his hands on the boy and pray for him . 
Father Sergius refused and returned to his cell . 
on going out for water he saw the same mother with her son , a pale boy of fourteen , and was met by the same petition . 
This decision was , that he ought to accede to the woman's request and that her faith might save her son . 
As for himself , he would in this case be but an insignificant instrument chosen by God . 
And going out to the mother he did what she asked laid his hand on the boy's head and prayed . 
spread throughout the whole district . 
Many recovered , and his fame spread more and more . 
So seven years passed in the Monastery and thirteen in his hermit's cell . 
He now had the appearance of an old man his beard was long and grey , but his hair , though thin , was still black and curly . 
That position had begun after the recovery of the fourteen year old boy . 
From that time , with each month , week , and day that passed , Sergius felt his own inner life wasting away and being replaced by external life . 
It was as if he had been turned inside out . 
For instance , they rendered it impossible for him to do any manual work . 
He was supplied with everything he could want , and they only demanded of him that he should not refuse his blessing to those who came to seek it . 
For his convenience they appointed days when he would receive . 
They told him that people needed him , and that fulfilling Christ's law of love he could not refuse their demand to see him , and that to avoid them would be cruel . 
he could not help being pleased at it , and could not be indifferent to the results of his activity and to the influence he exerted . 
In the depth of his soul he felt that the devil had substituted an activity for men in place of his former activity for God . 
He felt this because , just as it had formerly been hard for him to be torn from his solitude so now that solitude itself was hard for him . 
He was oppressed and wearied by visitors , but at the bottom of his heart he was glad of their presence and glad of the praise they heaped upon him . 
There was a time when he decided to go away and hide . 
He even planned all that was necessary for that purpose . 
He prepared for himself a peasant's shirt , trousers , coat , and cap . 
He explained that he wanted these to give to those who asked . 
And he kept these clothes in his cell , planning how he would put them on , cut his hair short , and go away . 
First he would go some three hundred versts by train , then he would leave the train and walk from village to village . 
He asked an old man who had been a soldier how he tramped what people gave him , and what shelter they allowed him . 
The soldier told him where people were most charitable , and where they would take a wanderer in for the night , and Father Sergius intended to avail himself of this information . 
He even put on those clothes one night in his desire to go , but he could not decide what was best to remain or to escape . 
At first he was in doubt , but afterwards this indecision passed . 
He submitted to custom and yielded to the devil , and only the peasant garb reminded him of the thought and feeling he had had . 
Every day more and more people flocked to him and less and less time was left him for prayer and for renewing his spiritual strength . 
Sometimes in lucid moments he thought he was like a place where there had once been a spring . 
'There used to be a feeble spring of living water which flowed quietly from me and through me . 
She had tasted of that pure water , but since then there had not been time for it to collect before thirsty people came crowding in and pushing one another aside . 
And they had trampled everything down and nothing was left but mud . 
So he thought in rare moments of lucidity , but his usual state of mind was one of weariness and a tender pity for himself because of that weariness . 
It was in spring , on the eve of the mid Pentecostal feast . 
Father Sergius was officiating at the Vigil Service in his hermitage church , where the congregation was as large as the little church could hold about twenty people . 
They were all well to do proprietors or merchants . 
Father Sergius admitted anyone , but a selection was made by the monk in attendance and by an assistant who was sent to the hermitage every day from the monastery . 
A crowd of some eighty people pilgrims and peasants , and especially peasant women stood outside waiting for Father Sergius to come out and bless them . 
'What is the matter , Father Sergius ? Dear man ! O Lord ! exclaimed the women . 
'He is as white as a sheet ! But Father Sergius recovered immediately , and though very pale , he waved the merchant and the deacon aside and continued to chant the service . 
'No , there's nothing the matter , said Father Sergius , slightly smiling from beneath his moustache and continuing the service . 
'Yes , that is the way the Saints behave ! thought he . 
'A holy man an angel of God ! he heard just then the voice of Sofya Ivanovna behind him , and also of the merchant who had supported him . 
He did not heed their entreaties , but went on with the service . 
Again crowding together they all made their way by the narrow passages back into the little church , and there , though abbreviating it slightly , Father Sergius completed vespers . 
Immediately after the service Father Sergius , having pronounced the benediction on those present , went over to the bench under the elm tree at the entrance to the cave . 
He wished to rest and breathe the fresh air he felt in need of it . 
But as soon as he left the church the crowd of people rushed to him soliciting his blessing , his advice , and his help . 
There were pilgrims who constantly tramped from one holy place to another and from one starets to another , and were always entranced by every shrine and every starets . 
Father Sergius knew this common , cold , conventional , and most irreligious type . 
All this was an old story and not in the least interesting to him . 
Father Seraphim began to drive them away , saying that Father Sergius was tired . 
'not to come unto me , and feeling tenderly towards himself at this recollection , said they should be allowed to approach . 
Yet despite his wish to receive them all he could not do it . 
Things again grew dark before his eyes , and he staggered and grasped the railings . 
He felt a rush of blood to his head and first went pale and then suddenly flushed . 
'I must leave the rest till to morrow . 
I cannot do more to day , and , pronouncing a general benediction , he returned to the bench . 
The merchant again supported him , and leading him by the arm helped him to be seated . 
'Father ! came voices from the crowd . 
'Dear Father ! Do not forsake us . 
Without you we are lost ! The merchant , having seated Father Sergius on the bench under the elm , took on himself police duties and drove the people off very resolutely . 
It is true that he spoke in a low voice so that Father Sergius might not hear him , but his words were incisive and angry . 
'All right , all right ! I am not driving them away . 
I am only remonstrating with them , replied the merchant . 
'You know they wouldn't hesitate to drive a man to death . 
They have no pity , they only consider themselves . 
You've been told you cannot see him . 
Go away ! To morrow ! And he got rid of them all . 
He took all these pains because he liked order and liked to domineer and drive the people away , but chiefly because he wanted to have Father Sergius to himself . 
He was a widower with an only daughter who was an invalid and unmarried , and whom he had brought fourteen hundred versts to Father Sergius to be healed . 
Now he had been told that Father Sergius wrought cures , and had brought her to him . 
I venture to prostrate myself at your holy feet . 
And he placed one hand on the other , cup wise . 
The merchant said that his daughter , a girl of twenty two , had fallen ill two years ago , after her mother's sudden death . 
and since then had not been herself . 
And now he had brought her fourteen hundred versts and she was waiting in the hostelry till Father Sergius should give orders to bring her . 
She did not go out during the day , being afraid of the light , and could only come after sunset . 
'Is she very weak ? asked Father Sergius . 
'No , she has no particular weakness . 
She is quite plump , and is only nerastenic the doctors say . 
If you will only let me bring her this evening , Father Sergius , I'll fly like a spirit to fetch her . 
I will pray for her , but now I am tired . 
and he closed his eyes . 
'I will send for you . 
The merchant went away , stepping on tiptoe , which only made his boots creak the louder , and Father Sergius remained alone . 
His whole life was filled by Church services and by people who came to see him , but to day had been a particularly difficult one . 
In the morning an important official had arrived and had had a long conversation with him after that a lady had come with her son . 
This son was a sceptical young professor whom the mother , an ardent believer and devoted to Father Sergius , had brought that he might talk to him . 
The conversation had been very trying . 
The young man , evidently not wishing to have a controversy with a monk , had agreed with him in everything as with someone who was mentally inferior . 
Father Sergius saw that the young man did not believe but yet was satisfied , tranquil , and at ease , and the memory of that conversation now disquieted him . 
'Have something to eat , Father , said the attendant . 
'All right , bring me something . 
The attendant went to a hut that had been arranged some ten paces from the cave , and Father Sergius remained alone . 
The time was long past when he had lived alone doing everything for himself and eating only rye bread , or rolls prepared for the Church . 
He had been advised long since that he had no right to neglect his health , and he was given wholesome , though Lenten , food . 
He ate sparingly , though much more than he had done , and often he ate with much pleasure , and not as formerly with aversion and a sense of guilt . 
He had some gruel , drank a cup of tea , and ate half a white roll . 
The attendant went away , and Father Sergius remained alone under the elm tree . 
It was a wonderful May evening , when the birches , aspens , elms , wild cherries , and oaks , had just burst into foliage . 
From the river came the far off songs of peasants returning , no doubt , from their work . 
The sun was setting behind the forest , its last rays glowing through the leaves . 
All that side was brilliant green , the other side with the elm tree was dark . 
The cockchafers flew clumsily about , falling to the ground when they collided with anything . 
He said a prayer which referred to his abandonment of the world , and hastened to finish it in order to send for the merchant with the sick daughter . 
She interested him in that she presented a distraction , and because both she and her father considered him a saint whose prayers were efficacious . 
Outwardly he disavowed that idea , but in the depths of his soul he considered it to be true . 
Strange as it might be , it was so . 
Accordingly the merchant's daughter interested him as a new individual who had faith in him , and also as a fresh opportunity to confirm his healing powers and enhance his fame . 
'They bring people a thousand versts and write about it in the papers . 
The Emperor knows of it , and they know of it in Europe , in unbelieving Europe' thought he . 
And suddenly he felt ashamed of his vanity and again began to pray . 
'Lord , King of Heaven , Comforter , Soul of Truth ! Come and enter into me and cleanse me from all sin and save and bless my soul . 
His prayers worked miracles for others , but in his own case God had not granted him liberation from this petty passion . 
He had retained his purity and had chopped off his finger . 
And he lifted the shrivelled stump of that finger to his lips and kissed it . 
He wanted and needed their love , but felt none towards them . 
He now had neither love nor humility nor purity . 
He was pleased to know that the merchant's daughter was twenty two , and he wondered whether she was good looking . 
When he inquired whether she was weak , he really wanted to know if she had feminine charm . 
'Can I have fallen so low ? he thought . 
'Lord , help me ! Restore me , my Lord and God ! And he clasped his hands and began to pray . 
The nightingales burst into song , a cockchafer knocked against him and crept up the back of his neck . 
'But does He exist ? What if I am knocking at a door fastened from outside ? The bar is on the door for all to see . 
Nature the nightingales and the cockchafers is that bar . 
Perhaps the young man was right . 
And he began to pray aloud . 
He prayed for a long time till these thoughts vanished and he again felt calm and confident . 
He rang the bell and told the attendant to say that the merchant might bring his daughter to him now . 
The merchant came , leading his daughter by the arm . 
He led her into the cell and immediately left her . 
She was a very fair girl , plump and very short , with a pale , frightened , childish face and a much developed feminine figure . 
As she passed by him he was acutely conscious of her femininity , though he saw by her face that she was sensual and feeble minded . 
He rose and went into the cell . 
She was sitting on a stool waiting for him , and when he entered she rose . 
'I want to go back to Papa , she said . 
'Don't be afraid , he replied . 
'What are you suffering from ? 'I am in pain all over , she said , and suddenly her face lit up with a smile . 
'You will be well , said he . 
'Pray ! 'What is the use of praying ? I have prayed and it does no good' and she continued to smile . 
'I want you to pray for me and lay your hands on me . 
I saw you in a dream . 
'How did you see me ? 'I saw you put your hands on my breast like that . 
She took his hand and pressed it to her breast . 
He yielded his right hand to her . 
'What is your name ? he asked , trembling all over and feeling that he was overcome and that his desire had already passed beyond control . 
Why ? She took his hand and kissed it , and then put her arm round his waist and pressed him to herself . 
'What are you doing ? he said . 
'Marie , you are a devil ! 'Oh , perhaps . 
What does it matter ? And embracing him she sat down with him on the bed . 
At dawn he went out into the porch . 
'Can this all have happened ? Her father will come and she will tell him everything . 
She is a devil ! What am I to do ? Here is the axe with which I chopped off my finger . 
He snatched up the axe and moved back towards the cell . 
'Do you want some wood chopped ? Let me have the axe . 
Sergius yielded up the axe and entered the cell . 
She was lying there asleep . 
He looked at her with horror , and passed on beyond the partition , where he took down the peasant clothes and put them on . 
A road ran beside the river and he went along it and walked till noon . 
Then he went into a field of rye and lay down there . 
Towards evening he approached a village , but without entering it went towards the cliff that overhung the river . 
There he again lay down to rest . 
It was early morning , half an hour before sunrise . 
All was damp and gloomy and a cold early wind was blowing from the west . 
'Yes , I must end it all . 
But how am I to end it ? Throw myself into the river ? I can swim and should not drown . 
Hang myself ? Yes , just throw this sash over a branch . 
This seemed so feasible and so easy that he felt horrified . 
As usual at moments of despair he felt the need of prayer . 
But there was no one to pray to . 
But that sleep lasted only for a moment . 
He woke up immediately and began not to dream but to remember . 
He saw himself as a child in his mother's home in the country . 
And into their company of boys Pashenka is brought and they have to play with her , but it is dull . 
She is silly , and it ends by their making fun of her and forcing her to show how she can swim . 
She lies down on the floor and shows them , and they all laugh and make a fool of her . 
She sees this and blushes red in patches and becomes more pitiable than before , so pitiable that he feels ashamed and can never forget that crooked , kindly , submissive smile . 
And Sergius remembered having seen her since then . 
Long after , just before he became a monk , she had married a landowner who squandered all her fortune and was in the habit of beating her . 
She had had two children , a son and a daughter , but the son had died while still young . 
And Sergius remembered having seen her very wretched . 
Then again he had seen her in the monastery when she was a widow . 
She had been still the same , not exactly stupid , but insipid , insignificant , and pitiable . 
She had come with her daughter and her daughter's fiance . 
They were already poor at that time and later on he had heard that she was living in a small provincial town and was very poor . 
'Why am I thinking about her ? he asked himself , but he could not cease doing so . 
And again he felt afraid , and again , to escape from that thought , he went on thinking about Pashenka . 
So he lay for a long time , thinking now of his unavoidable end and now of Pashenka . 
She presented herself to him as a means of salvation . 
He awoke , and having decided that this was a vision sent by God , he felt glad , and resolved to do what had been told him in the vision . 
He knew the town where she lived . 
away , and he set out to walk there . 
VI Pashenka had already long ceased to be Pashenka and had become old , withered , wrinkled Praskovya Mikhaylovna , mother in law of that failure , the drunken official Mavrikyev . 
So they lived for the present , in expectation of another appointment . 
It was a Saturday , and Praskovya Mikhaylovna was herself mixing dough for currant bread such as the serf cook on her father's estate used to make so well . 
She wished to give her grandchildren a treat on the Sunday . 
Praskovya Mikhaylovna had remained awake too for a great part of the night , trying to soften her daughter's anger against her husband . 
Unkindly relations between people caused her actual physical suffering . 
It was so clear to her that bitter feelings do not make anything better , but only make everything worse . 
'Grandma , a dreadful old man wants to see you . 
Lukerya looked out at the door . 
'There is a pilgrim of some kind , a man . 
'It serves you right , she said to herself . 
'You must now give twice over . 
She gave both the bread and the money to the pilgrim , and when doing so far from being proud of her generosity she excused herself for giving so little . 
The man had such an imposing appearance . 
But Praskovya Mikhaylovna did not recognize him . 
She could hardly do so , not having seen him for almost twenty years . 
'Don't think ill of me , Father . 
Perhaps you want something to eat ? He took the bread and the money , and Praskovya Mikhaylovna was surprised that he did not go , but stood looking at her . 
'Pashenka , I have come to you ! Take me in . 
His beautiful black eyes , shining with the tears that started in them , were fixed on her with imploring insistence . 
And under his greyish moustache his lips quivered piteously . 
Praskovya Mikhaylovna pressed her hands to her withered breast , opened her mouth , and stood petrified , staring at the pilgrim with dilated eyes . 
'It can't be ! Stepa ! Sergey ! Father Sergius ! 'Yes , it is I , said Sergius in a low voice . 
'Only not Sergius , or Father Sergius , but a great sinner , Stepan Kasatsky a great and lost sinner . 
Take me in and help me ! 'It's impossible ! How have you so humbled yourself ? But come in . 
She reached out her hand , but he did not take it and only followed her in . 
But where was she to take him ? The lodging was a small one . 
'Sit here for the present , she said to Sergius , pointing to a bench in the kitchen . 
He sat down at once , and with an evidently accustomed movement slipped the straps of his wallet first off one shoulder and then off the other . 
'My God , my God ! How you have humbled yourself , Father ! Such great fame , and now like this . 
Sergius did not reply , but only smiled meekly , placing his wallet under the bench on which he sat . 
Praskovya Mikhaylovna led him into it . 
but I must go out . 
'Where to ? 'I have to go to a lesson . 
I am ashamed to tell you , but I teach music ! 'Music ? But that is good . 
Only just one thing , Praskovya Mikhaylovna , I have come to you with a definite object . 
When can I have a talk with you ? 'I shall be very glad . 
Will this evening do ? 'Yes . 
Don't speak about me , or say who I am . 
I have revealed myself only to you . 
No one knows where I have gone to . 
'Oh , but I have told my daughter . 
'Well , ask her not to mention it . 
And Sergius took off his boots , lay down , and at once fell asleep after a sleepless night and a walk of nearly thirty miles . 
When Praskovya Mikhaylovna returned , Sergius was sitting in the little room waiting for her . 
He did not come out for dinner , but had some soup and gruel which Lukerya brought him . 
'How is it that you have come back earlier than you said ? asked Sergius . 
'Can I speak to you now ? 'How is it that I have the happiness to receive such a guest ? I have missed one of my lessons . 
I had always been planning to go to see you . 
I wrote to you , and now this good fortune has come . 
'Pashenka , please listen to what I am going to tell you as to a confession made to God at my last hour . 
Pashenka looked at him at first with staring eyes . 
But she believed what he said , and when she had quite grasped it she touched his hand , smiling pityingly , and said 'Perhaps you exaggerate , Stiva ? 'No , Pashenka . 
I am an adulterer , a murderer , a blasphemer , and a deceiver . 
'My God ! How is that ? exclaimed Praskovya Mikhaylovna . 
'But I must go on living . 
And I , who thought I knew everything , who taught others how to live I know nothing and ask you to teach me . 
'What are you saying , Stiva ? You are laughing at me . 
Why do you always make fun of me ? 'Well , if you think I am jesting you must have it as you please . 
But tell me all the same how you live , and how you have lived your life . 
'I ? I have lived a very nasty , horrible life , and now God is punishing me as I deserve . 
I live so wretchedly , so wretchedly . 
'How was it with your marriage ? How did you live with your husband ? 'It was all bad . 
I married because I fell in love in the nastiest way . 
But I would not listen to anything and just got married . 
Then instead of helping my husband I tormented him by my jealousy , which I could not restrain . 
'I heard that he drank . 
'Yes , but I did not give him any peace . 
I always reproached him , though you know it is a disease ! He could not refrain from it . 
I now remember how I tried to prevent his having it , and the frightful scenes we had ! And she looked at Kasatsky with beautiful eyes , suffering from the remembrance . 
'Then I was left with two children and no means at all . 
'But you had an estate ! 'Oh , we sold that while Vasya was still alive , and the money was all spent . 
We had to live , and like all our young ladies I did not know how to earn anything . 
I was particularly useless and helpless . 
So we spent all we had . 
I taught the children and improved my own education a little . 
And then Mitya fell ill when he was already in the fourth form , and God took him . 
Masha fell in love with Vanya , my son in law . 
And well , he is well meaning but unfortunate . 
'Mamma ! her daughter's voice interrupted her 'Take Mitya ! I can't be in two places at once . 
Praskovya Mikhaylovna shuddered , but rose and went out of the room , stepping quickly in her patched shoes . 
She soon came back with a boy of two in her arms , who threw himself backwards and grabbed at her shawl with his little hands . 
'Where was I ? Oh yes , he had a good appointment here , and his chief was a kind man too . 
But Vanya could not go on , and had to give up his position . 
'What is the matter with him ? 'Neurasthenia it is a dreadful complaint . 
We consulted a doctor , who told us he ought to go away , but we had no means . 
I always hope it will pass of itself . 
He has no particular pain , but . 
'Lukerya ! cried an angry and feeble voice . 
'She is always sent away when I want her . 
'I'm coming ! Praskovya Mikhaylovna again interrupted herself . 
'He has not had his dinner yet . 
He can't eat with us . 
She went out and arranged something , and came back wiping her thin dark hands . 
'So that is how I live . 
I always complain and am always dissatisfied , but thank God the grandchildren are all nice and healthy , and we can still live . 
But why talk about me ? 'But what do you live on ? 'Well , I earn a little . 
'How much do you get for a lesson ? 'Sometimes a ruble , sometimes fifty kopeks , or sometimes thirty . 
They are all so kind to me . 
'And do your pupils get on well ? asked Kasatsky with a slight smile . 
Praskovya Mikhaylovna did not at first believe that he was asking seriously , and looked inquiringly into his eyes . 
But as it is I have not been able to do anything , and have brought them all to this as you see . 
'Yes , yes , said Kasatsky , lowering his head . 
'And how is it , Pashenka do you take part in Church life ? 'Oh , don't speak of it . 
I only send the children . 
'I am ashamed , for my daughter's sake and the children's , to go there in tattered clothes , and I haven't anything else . 
Besides , I am just lazy . 
'And do you pray at home ? 'I do . 
But what sort of prayer is it ? Only mechanical . 
I know it should not be like that , but I lack real religious feeling . 
The only thing is that I know how bad I am . 
'Yes , yes , that's right ! said Kasatsky , as if approvingly . 
'I'm coming ! I'm coming ! she replied to a call from her son in law , and tidying her scanty plait she left the room . 
But this time it was long before she returned . 
When she came back , Kasatsky was sitting in the same position , his elbows resting on his knees and his head bowed . 
But his wallet was strapped on his back . 
When she came in , carrying a small tin lamp without a shade , he raised his fine weary eyes and sighed very deeply . 
'I did not tell them who you are , she began timidly . 
'I only said that you are a pilgrim , a nobleman , and that I used to know you . 
Come into the dining room for tea . 
'Well then , I'll bring some to you here . 
'No , I don't want anything . 
God bless you , Pashenka ! I am going now . 
If you pity me , don't tell anyone that you have seen me . 
For the love of God don't tell anyone . 
I would bow to your feet but I know it would make you feel awkward . 
Thank you , and forgive me for Christ's sake ! 'Give me your blessing . 
'God bless you ! Forgive me for Christ's sake ! He rose , but she would not let him go until she had given him bread and butter and rusks . 
He took it all and went away . 
It was dark , and before he had passed the second house he was lost to sight . 
She only knew he was there because the dog at the priest's house was barking . 
'So that is what my dream meant ! Pashenka is what I ought to have been but failed to be . 
I lived for men on the pretext of living for God , while she lived for God imagining that she lives for men . 
Yes , one good deed a cup of water given without thought of reward is worth more than any benefit I imagined I was bestowing on people . 
Yes , there is no God for the man who lives , as I did , for human praise . 
Occasionally some angry housewife scolded him , or a drunken peasant reviled him , but for the most part he was given food and drink and even something to take with him . 
His noble bearing disposed some people in his favour , while others on the contrary seemed pleased at the sight of a gentleman who had come to beggary . 
But his gentleness prevailed with everyone . 
And little by little God began to reveal Himself within him . 
Once he was walking along with two old women and a soldier . 
They were stopped by a party consisting of a lady and gentleman in a gig and another lady and gentleman on horseback . 
The husband was on horseback with his daughter , while in the gig his wife was driving with a Frenchman , evidently a traveller . 
The party stopped to let the Frenchman see the pilgrims who , in accord with a popular Russian superstition , tramped about from place to place instead of working . 
They spoke French , thinking that the others would not understand them . 
'Demandez leur , said the Frenchman , 's'ils sont bien sur de ce que leur pelerinage est agreable a Dieu . 
The question was asked , and one old woman replied 'As God takes it . 
Our feet have reached the holy places , but our hearts may not have done so . 
He said that he was alone in the world and had nowhere else to go . 
They asked Kasatsky who he was . 
'Qu'est ce qu'il dit ? Il ne repond pas . 
'Il dit qu'il est un serviteur de Dieu . 
Cela doit etre un fils de preetre . 
Il a de la race . 
Avez vous de la petite monnaie ? The Frenchman found some small change and gave twenty kopeks to each of the pilgrims . 
'Mais dites leur que ce n'est pas pour les cierges que je leur donne , mais pour qu'ils se regalent de the . 
Chay , chay pour vous , mon vieux ! he said with a smile . 
And he patted Kasatsky on the shoulder with his gloved hand . 
'May Christ bless you , replied Kasatsky without replacing his cap and bowing his bald head . 
The less importance he attached to the opinion of men the more did he feel the presence of God within him . 
For eight months Kasatsky tramped on in this manner , and in the ninth month he was arrested for not having a passport . 
This happened at a night refuge in a provincial town where he had passed the night with some pilgrims . 
He was classed as a tramp , sentenced , and sent to live in Siberia . 
