Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com THE QUEST OF THE GOLDEN GIRL A ROMANCE BY RICHARD LE GALLIENNE TO PRIOR AND LOUISE CHRISTIAN , WITH AFFECTION . 
CONTENTS BOOK I CHAPTER I. AN OLD HOUSE AND ITS BACHELOR II . 
IN WHICH I DECIDE TO GO ON PILGRIMAGE III . 
AN INDICTMENT OF SPRING IV . 
IN WHICH I EAT AND DREAM V. CONCERNING THE PERFECT WOMAN , AND THEREFORE CONCERNING ALL FEMININE READERS VI . 
IN WHICH THE AUTHOR ANTICIPATES DISCONTENT ON THE PART OF HIS READER VII . 
THE LEGEND OF HEBES OR THE HEAVENLY HOUSEMAID X. AGAIN ON FOOT THE GIRLS THAT NEVER CAN BE MINE XI . 
AN OLD MAN OF THE HILLS , AND THE SCHOOLMASTER'S STORY XII . 
THE TRUTH ABOUT THE GIPSIES XIII . 
STILL OCCUPIED WITH THE PETTICOAT XVI . 
CLEARS UP MY MYSTERIOUS BEHAVIOUR OF THE LAST CHAPTER XVII . 
THE NAME UPON THE PETTICOAT XVIII . 
IN WHICH THE NAME OF A GREAT POET IS CRIED OUT IN A SOLITARY PLACE XIX . 
WHY THE STRANGER WOULD NOT LOSE HIS SHELLEY FOR THE WORLD BOOK II I. IN WHICH I DECIDE TO BE YOUNG AGAIN II . 
AT THE SIGN OF THE SINGING STREAM III . 
IN WHICH I SAVE A USEFUL LIFE IV . 
'T IS OF NICOLETE AND HER BOWER IN THE WILDWOOD V. 'T IS OF AUCASSIN AND NICOLETE VI . 
A FAIRY TALE AND ITS FAIRY TAILORS VII . 
FROM THE MORNING STAR TO THE MOON VIII . 
THE KIND OF THING THAT HAPPENS IN THE MOON IX . 
WRITTEN BY MOONLIGHT X. HOW ONE MAKES LOVE AT THIRTY XI . 
HOW ONE PLAYS THE HERO AT THIRTY XII . 
IN WHICH I REVIEW MY ACTIONS AND RENEW MY RESOLUTIONS BOOK III I. IN WHICH I RETURN TO MY RIGHT AGE AND ENCOUNTER A COMMON OBJECT OF THE COUNTRY II . 
IN WHICH I HEAL A BICYCLE AND COME TO THE WHEEL OF PLEASURE III . 
TWO TOWN MICE AT A COUNTRY INN IV . 
MARRIAGE A LA MODE V. CONCERNING THE HAVEN OF YELLOW SANDS VI . 
THE MOORLAND OF THE APOCALYPSE VII . 
COME UNTO THESE YELLOW SANDS ! VIII . 
THE TWELVE GOLDEN HAIRED BAR MAIDS IX . 
SYLVIA JOY X. IN WHICH ONCE MORE I BECOME OCCUPIED IN MY OWN AFFAIRS XI . 
THE HOUR FOR WHICH THE YEARS FOR WHICH I DID SIGH XII . 
AT THE CAFE DE LA PAIX XIII . 
THE INNOCENCE OF PARIS XIV . 
END OF BOOK THREE BOOK IV THE POSTSCRIPT TO A PILGRIMAGE I. SIX YEARS AFTER II . 
It was true I had many and good friends , and I was blessed with interests and occupations which I had often declared sufficient to satisfy any not too exacting human being . 
Moreover , a small but sufficient competency was mine , allowing me reasonable comforts , and the luxuries of a small but choice library , and a small but choice garden . 
These heavenly blessings had seemed mere than enough for nearly five years , during which the good sister and I had kept house together , leading a life of tranquil happy days . 
But , alas ! one day came a Faust into our garden , a good Faust , with no friend Mephistopheles , and took Margaret from me . 
It is but a month since they were married , and the rice still lingers in the crevices of the pathway down to the quaint old iron work gate . 
Yes ! they have gone off to spend their honeymoon , and Margaret has written to me twice to say how happy they are together in the Hesperides . 
Dear happiness ! Selfish , indeed , were he who would envy you one petal of that wonderful rose Rosa Mundi God has given you to gather . 
Old house , old house ! We are alone , quite alone , there is no mistake about that , and the soul has gone out of both of us . 
And as for the garden , there is no company there that is loneliest of all . 
The very sunlight looks desolation , falling through the thick blossoming apple trees as through the chinks and crevices of deserted Egyptian cities . 
Margaret has gone away to the Fortunate Isles . 
Of course she'll come to see us now and again but it won't be the same thing . 
Yes ! old echoing silent House of Joy that is Gone , we are quite alone . 
I talked a little just now as though I were an octogenarian . 
Actually , as I said , I am but just gone thirty , and I may reasonably regard life , as the saying is , all before me . 
I was a little down hearted when I wrote yesterday . 
Besides , I wrote at the end of the afternoon , a melancholy time . 
The morning is the time to write . 
We are all that is , those of us who sleep well optimists in the morning . 
And the world is sad enough without our writing books to make it sadder . 
The rest of this book , I promise you , shall be written of a morning . 
This book ! oh , yes , I forgot ! I am going to write a book . 
A book about what ? Well , that must be as God wills . 
She isn't usually found after thirty . 
But you'll no doubt have good fun by the way , and fall in with many pleasant adventures . 
A brave idea , indeed ! I cried . 
By Heaven , I will take stick and knapsack and walk right away from my own front door , right away where the road leads , and see what happens . 
And now , if the reader please , we will make a start . 
He may have consistently broken them for fifty years , yet this year he will keep them . 
This year the dream will come true , the ship come home . 
This year the very dead we have loved shall come back to us again for Spring can even lie like that . 
There is nothing he will not promise the poor hungry human heart , with his innocent looking daisies and those practised liars the birds . 
So I , too , with the rest of the world , was following in the wake of the magical music . 
The lie it was drawing me by is perhaps Spring's oldest , commonest lie , the lying promise of the Perfect Woman , the Quite Impossible She . 
Who has not dreamed of her , who that can dream at all ? I suppose that the dreams of our modern youth are entirely commercial . 
These quests and dreams were not for me . 
Since I was man I have had but one dream , namely , Woman . 
Alas ! till this my thirtieth year I have found only women . 
More potent intoxicants these than any that need licenses for their purveyance , responsible see the poets for no end of human foolishness . 
I was about to tell the story of my First Love , but on second thoughts I decide not . 
CHAPTER IV IN WHICH I EAT AND DREAM The girl we go to meet is the girl we have met before . 
A man who goes seeking should have some notion of what he goes out to seek . 
And this was the dream . 
And so still the forest was you could have heard an acorn drop or a bird call from one end of it to the other . 
The exquisite silence was evidently waiting for the exquisite voice , that presently not so much broke as mingled with it , like a swan swimming through a lake . 
Whom seek you ? said , or rather sung , a planetary voice right at my shoulder . 
But three short unmusical Saxon words , yet it was as though a mystical strain of music had passed through the wood . 
Whom seek you ? and again the lovely speech flowered upon the silence , as white water lilies on the surface of some shaded pool . 
Yet was there something about her of the earth sweetness that clings even to the loveliest , star ambitious , earth born thing . 
She was not all immortal , as man is not all mortal . 
Only when the lark shall mate with the nightingale , and the honey bee and the clock beetle keep house together , shall I wed another maid . 
Fair maybe she will not be , though fair to me . 
Wise maybe she will not be , though wise to me . 
For riches I care not , and of her kindred I have no care . 
All I know is that just to sit by her will be bliss , just to touch her bliss , just to hear her speak bliss beyond all mortal telling . 
And as she spoke she faded suddenly , and the side of the oak was once more as the solid rock . 
She smiled sweetly in her sleep , and stretched out her arms softly , as though to enfold the dear head of her lover . 
And , ere I knew , I was bending over her , and as her sweet breath came and went I whispered Grace o' God , I am here . 
I have sought you through the world , and found you at last . 
Grace o' God , I have come . 
And then I thought her great eyes opened , as when the sun sweeps clear blue spaces in the morning sky . 
Flower o' Men , then said she , low and sweet , Flower o' Men , is it you indeed ? As you have sought , so have I waited , waited . 
And thereat her arms stole round my neck , and I awoke , and Grace o' God was suddenly no more than a pretty name that my dream had given me . 
A pretty dream , said my soul , though a little boyish for thirty . 
And a most excellent sherry , added my body . 
Other generalisations proving equally unprofitable , I began scientifically to consider in detail the attributes of the supposititious paragon , attributes of body and mind and heart . 
And this , try as I would , was just what I could not imagine . 
You see the fault becomes a virtue when it is hers , the treason prospers wherefore , no doubt , the impossibility of imagining it . 
What particular fault will suit a particular unknown girl is obviously as difficult to determine as in what colours she will look her best . 
So , I say , I plied my brains in vain for that becoming fault . 
It was the same whether I considered her beauty , her heart , or her mind . 
And such may be the loveliest and best loved face for you who are reading these pages , faces little understood on earth because they belong to heaven . 
There is indeed only one law of beauty on which we may rely , that it invariably breaks all the laws laid down for it by the professors of aesthetics . 
The immortal sculptors , painters , and poets have always done exactly what their critics forbade them to do . 
The obedient in art are always the forgotten . 
Likewise beautiful women have always been a law unto themselves . 
Besides , with that prevision given to an author , I am strongly of opinion that something will happen before long . 
And if the worst comes to the worst , there is always that story of my First Love wherewith to fill the time . 
CHAPTER VII PRANDIAL Dinner ! Is there a more beautiful word in the language ? Dinner ! Let the beautiful word come as a refrain to and fro this chapter . 
Dinner ! Just eating and drinking , nothing more , but so much ! Drinking , indeed , has had its laureates . 
Yet would I offer my mite of prose in its honour . 
And when I say drinking , I speak not of smuggled gin or of brandy bottles held fiercely by the neck till they are empty . 
And what greater felicity than to be alone in a tavern with your last new song , just born and yet still a tingling part of you . 
Drinking has indeed been sung , but why , I have heard it asked , have we no Eating Songs ? for eating is , surely , a fine pleasure . 
Many practise it already , and it is becoming more general every day . 
It is , indeed , an absorbing pleasure . 
It needs all our attention . 
You must eat as you kiss , so exacting are the joys of the mouth , talking , for example . 
The quiet eye may be allowed to participate , and sometimes the ear , where the music is played upon a violin , and that a Stradivarius . 
A well kept lawn , with six hundred years old cedars and a twenty feet yew hedge , will add distinction to the meal . 
Some diners have wine too upon the table , and in the pauses of thinking what a divine mystery dinner is , they eat . 
It is a solemn thought , and the finest poem that was ever written came out of a grey pulpy mass such as we make brain sauce of . 
And with these grave thoughts for grace let us sit down to dinner . 
Dinner ! CHAPTER VIII STILL PRANDIAL What wine shall we have ? I confess I am no judge of wines , except when they are bad . 
Forgive me , therefore , if I grow reminiscent . 
Indeed , I fear that the hour for the story of my First Love has come . 
But first , notice the waitress . 
I confess , whether beautiful or plain , not too plain , women who earn their own living have a peculiar attraction for me . 
I hope the Golden Girl will not turn out to be a duchess . 
As old Campion sings , I care not for those ladies Who must be wooed and prayed Give me kind Amaryllis , The wanton country maid . 
Town maids too of the same pattern . 
Whether in town or country , give me the girls that work . 
The Girls That Work ! But evidently it is high time woe began a new chapter . 
CHAPTER IX THE LEGEND OF HEBE , OR THE HEAVENLY HOUSEMAID Yes , I blush to admit it , my First Love was a housemaid . 
So was she known on this dull earth of ours , but in heaven in the heaven of my imagination , at all events she was , of course , a goddess . 
How she managed to keep her disguise I never could understand . 
To me she was so obviously dea certe . 
The nimbus was so apparent . 
Yet no one seemed to see it but me . 
I have heard her scolded as though she were any ordinary earthly housemaid , and I have seen the butcher's boy trying to flirt with her without a touch of reverence . 
Neither fairies nor fauns , dryads nor nymphs of the forest pools , have really passed away from the world . 
You have only to get up early enough to meet them in the meadows . 
They rarely venture abroad after six . 
All day long they hide in uncouth enchanted forms . 
It was so with Hebe . 
In spring time how that naughty tree used to flash its silver nakedness of blossom for miles across the furze and scattered birches ! I might have known it was Hebe . 
Alas ! it no longer bares its bosom with so dazzling a prodigality , for it is many a day since it was uprooted . 
The little dryad long since fled away weeping , fled away , said evil tongues , fled away to the town . 
Well do I remember our last meeting . 
Returning home one evening , I met her at the lodge gate hurrying away . 
Our loves had been discovered , and my mother had shuddered to think that so pagan a thing had lived so long in a Christian house . 
I vowed ah ! what did I not vow ? and then we stole sadly together to comfort our aching hearts under cover of the woodland . 
For the last time the wild cherry tree bloomed , wonderful blossom , glittering with tears , and gloriously radiant with stormy lights of wild passion and wilder hopes . 
My faith lived valiantly till the next spring . 
It was Hebe who was faithless . 
It was my custom then to rise early , to read Latin authors , thanks to Hebe , still unread . 
After a time she began to sweeten it for me . 
And then she would sit on my knee , and we would translate Catullus together , into English kisses for she was curiously interested in the learned tongue . 
She wore a marvellous little printed gown . 
And here I may say that I have never to this day understood objections which were afterwards raised against my early attachment to print . 
The only legitimate attachment to print stuff , I was told , was to print stuff in the form of blouse , tennis , or boating costume . 
For I found beneath that pretty print such a heart as seldom beats beneath your satin , warm and wild as a bird's . 
I used to put my ear to it sometimes to listen if it beat right . 
Ah , reader , it was like putting your ear to the gate of heaven . 
Hebe blushed , and for answer whispered something too sweet to tell . 
So I was up and out of the town while as yet most of the inhabitants were in the throes of getting up . 
Somewhere too SHE , the Golden One , the White Woman , was drowsily tossing the night clothes from her limbs and rubbing her sleepy eyes . 
Perhaps she was in the very town I was leaving behind . 
Perhaps we had slept within a few houses of each other . 
He wore a decent square felt hat , a shabby respectable overcoat , a workman's knitted waistcoat , and workman's corduroys , and he carried an umbrella . 
His upper part might have belonged to a small well to do tradesman , while his lower bore marks of recent bricklaying . 
Without its being remarkable , he had what one calls a good face , somewhat aquiline in character , with a refined forehead and nose . 
His cheeks were shaved , and his whitening beard and moustache were worn somewhat after the fashion of Charles Dickens . 
This gave a slight touch of severity to a face that was full of quiet strength . 
Yes , he said presently , I was the first to put stick or stone on Whortleberry Common yonder . 
Fifteen years ago I built my own wood cottage there , and now I'm rebuilding it of good Surrey stone . 
Do you mean that you are building it yourself , with your own hands , no one to help you ? I asked . 
Not so much as to carry a pail of water , he replied . 
I'm my own contractor , my own carpenter , and my own bricklayer , and I shall be sixty seven come Michaelmas , he added , by no means irrelevantly . 
In the country , as elsewhere , we must forego profundity if we wish to be understood . 
Yes , sir , he said , I have been about a good deal in my time . 
I have seen pretty well all of the world there is to see , and sailed as far as ship could take me . 
Indeed , you have been a sailor too ? Twenty two thousand miles of sea , he continued , without directly answering my remark . 
Vancouver , Labrador , The White Mountains , the very names , thus casually mentioned on a Surrey heath , seemed full of the sounding sea . 
Like talismans they whisked one away to strange lands , across vast distances of space imagination refused to span . 
As we walked along I caught glimpses in his vivid and ever varying talk of the qualities that had made his success possible . 
They are always the same qualities ! A little pile of half hewn stones , the remains of a ruined wall , scattered by the roadside caught his eye . 
Give me the tops and I'll soon rig up a pair still . 
And with all his success , and his evident satisfaction with his lot , the man was neither a prig nor a teetotaller . 
He had probably seen too much of the world to be either . 
No , it's all well enough in its way , but it swallows time , he remarked . 
We had mentioned the lord of the manor as we crossed the common , and the notice board brought him once more to the old man's mind . 
Indeed ? I said interrogatively . 
It lies over that way , I could take you to the very place . 
Many 's the night I've heard the windows rattling with the good company gathered round him . 
Well , of course , no one can say how these things come about . 
Have him they will , whatever happens . 
They can't help it , poor things ! It's just a freak of nature . 
Well , and how was it found out ? I again jogged him . 
One of Sir William's keepers played the spy on them . 
The squire had them all broken up , but the pieces are there to this day . 
Yes , he again proceeded , it hit Sir William very hard . 
He's never been the same man since . 
I am afraid that my sympathies were less with Sir William than better regulated sympathies would have been . 
I confess that my imagination was more occupied with that picture of the two lovers making merry together in the moonlit dingle . 
And now I stood in the very dingle where they had so often and so wildly met and it was all gone , quite gone away for ever . 
To which I would add , for the benefit of the profane , that I sought in vain for those broken bottles . 
CHAPTER XII THE TRUTH ABOUT THE GIPSIES I felt lonely after losing my companion , and I met nobody to take his place . 
Borrow would have blushed for it . 
In fact , it is my humble opinion that the gipsies have been overdone , just as the Alps have been over climbed . 
I have no great desire to see Switzerland , for I am sure the Alps must be greasy with being climbed . 
They are , so to say , public poetry , the public property of the emotions , and no longer touch the private heart or stir the private imagination . 
Our fathers felt so much about them that there is nothing left for us to feel . 
They are as a rose whose fragrance has been exhausted by greedy and indiscriminate smelling . 
I would rather find a little Surrey common for myself and idle about it a summer day , with the other geese and donkeys , than climb the tallest Alp . 
Most gipsies are merely tenth rate provincial companies , travelling with and villainously travestying Borrow's great pieces of Lavengro and Romany Rye . 
Dirty , ill looking , scowling men dirty , slovenly , and wickedly ugly women children to match , snarling , filthy little curs , with a ready beggar's whine on occasion . 
A gipsy encampment to day is little more than a moving slum , a scab of squalor on the fair face of the countryside . 
But there was one little trifle of an incident that touched me as I passed this particular caravan . 
Evidently one of the vans had come to grief , and several men of the party were making a great show of repairing it . 
After I had run the gauntlet of the begging children , and was just out of ear shot of the group , I turned round to survey it from a distance . 
It was encamped on a slight rise of the undulating road , and from where I stood tents and vans and men were clearly silhouetted against the sky . 
The road ran through and a little higher than the encampment , which occupied both sides of it . 
There seemed to me pathos in his loneliness . 
The snatched pleasure must be put by at the call of reality the world and its work must rush in upon his dream . 
It is Capital and Labour over again , for in literature also we reap in gladness what others have sown in tears . 
And now , after these admirable reflections , I am about to make such art as I can of another man's tragedy , as will appear in the next chapter . 
Undoubtedly the nicest way to get married is on the sly , and indeed it is at present becoming quite fashionable . 
My friend George Muncaster , who does everything charmingly different from any one else , hit upon one of the quaintest plans for his marriage . 
It was simple , and some may say prosaic enough . 
Prosaic , you say ! Not your idea of poetry , perhaps , but , after a new and growing fashion in poetry , truly poetic . 
George Muncaster's marriage is a type of the new poetry , the poetry of essentials . 
The old poetry , as exemplified in the old fashioned marriage , is a poetry of externals , and certainly it has the advantage of picturesqueness . 
There is perhaps more to be said for it than that . 
The dramatic instinct to which the life of towns is necessarily unfavourable , is kept alive in the country by the smallness of the stage and the fewness of the actors . 
A village is an organism , conscious of its several parts , as a town is not . 
In a village everybody is a public man . 
The great events of his life are of public as well as private significance , appropriately , therefore , invested with public ceremonial . 
However , the village wedding at which I suddenly found myself a spectator was , for a village , a singularly quiet one . 
There was no bell ringing , and there were no bridesmaids . 
There was an absence of the usual hilarity which struck me . 
One might almost have said that there was a quite ominous silence . 
Seating myself in a corner of the transept where I could see all and be little seen , I with the rest awaited the coming of the overdue bridegroom . 
Meanwhile the usual buzzing and bobbing of heads went on amongst the usual little group near the foot of the altar . 
The bridegroom did not keep us waiting long , I noticed that he had a rather delicate sad face , and presently the service began . 
I don't know myself what getting married must feel like , but it cannot be much more exciting than watching other people getting married . 
Probably the spectators are more conscious of the impressive meaning of it all than the brave young people themselves . 
Indeed , I always get something like a palpitation of the heart just before the priest utters those final fateful words , I declare you man and wife . 
Half a second before you were still free , half a second after you are bound for the term of your natural life . 
Half a second after Not all the king's horses and all the king's men Can make you a bachelor ever again . 
It is the knife edge moment 'twixt time and eternity . 
And , curiously enough , while my thoughts were thus running on towards the rapids of that swirling moment , the very thing happened which I had often imagined might happen to myself . 
Poor young man ! I thought he would never go through with it , said an old woman half to herself , who was sitting near me . 
I involuntarily looked my desire of explanation . 
Well , you see , she said , he had been married before . 
His first wife died four years ago , and he loved her beyond all heaven and earth . 
That evening , I afterwards heard , the young bridegroom's body was found by some boys as they went to bathe in the river . 
What is thy name , slave ? asked the princess , and what thy race and birthplace ? My name , the young slave answered , is Mahomet . 
My race is that of Asra , and when we love , we die . 
And likewise a voice kept saying in my heart , If ever you find your Golden Bride , be sure she will die . 
CHAPTER XIV THE MYSTERIOUS PETTICOAT The sad thoughts with which this incident naturally left me were at length and suddenly dispersed , as sad thoughts not infrequently are , by a petticoat . 
But first allow me to describe a little more fully my surroundings at the moment . 
it is stopping to gossip with rillets vagabond as itself , or loitering to bedeck itself with flowers . 
Had the lane been going to some great house , it would have made more haste , we may be sure . 
The lane I had been following had finally dropped me down at something of a run upon just such a scene . 
And thus philosophising , like a much greater philosopher , upon clothes , I found myself involuntarily deducing the cottage family from the family washing . 
Further than this it was impossible to conjecture . 
Thus I made the rough guess that a young man and his wife , a child , and a mother in law were among the inhabitants of this idyllic cottage . 
But the clothes line presented charming evidence of still another occupant and here , though so far easy to read , came in something of a puzzle . 
Nor was the lace any ordinary expensive English lace , such as any good shop can supply . 
I have seen corsets thus made beautiful by him valued at five hundred pounds , and he never paints a pair of garters for less than a hundred . 
I am far from despising an honest red flannel country petticoat . 
There is no warmer kinder looking garment in the world . 
It suggests country laps and country breasts , with sturdy country babes greedy for the warm white milk , and it seems dyed in country blushes . 
No wonder the wind chose it so often for its partner as it danced through the garden , scorning to notice the heavy homespun things about it . 
It was not every day that that washing day wind met so fine a lady , and it was charming to see how gently he played about her stockings . 
Ah , wind , I said , evidently you are a gallant born but tell us the name of the lady . 
It is somewhere on that pretty petticoat , I'll be bound . 
The next thing was to get a look at her . 
So , remembering how fond I was of milk from the cow , I pushed open the gate and advanced to the cottage door . 
CHAPTER XV STILL OCCUPIED WITH THE PETTICOAT The door was opened by a comely young woman , with ruddy cheeks and a bright kind eye that promised conversation . 
But H'm , said I to myself , as she went to fetch my milk , evidently not yours , my dear . 
A nice drying day for your washing , I said , as I slowly sipped my milk , with a half inclination of my head towards the clothes line . 
However , I was for once cased in triple brass and inexorable . 
You are very bold , sir , she stammered through her blushes , but I could see that she was not ill pleased that the finery should attract attention . 
But won't you tell me ? I urged I have a reason for asking . 
Well , what if they should be mine ? at length I persuaded her into saying . 
I made the obvious gallant reply , but , All the same , I added , you know they are not yours . 
They belong to some lady visitor , who , I'll be bound , isn't half so pretty now , don't they ? Well , they just don't then . 
They're mine , as I tell you . 
H'm , I continued , a little nonplussed , but do you really mean there is no lady staying with you ? Certainly , she replied , evidently enjoying my bewilderment . 
Now , look here , I said with an affectation of gravity , if you'll tell me how you came by those things , I'll make it worth your while . 
They were given to you by a lady who stayed here not so long ago , now , weren't they ? Well , then , they were . 
The lady stayed here with a gentleman ? Yes , she did . 
H'm ! I thought so , I said . 
But she said they were brother and sister , she replied . 
Of course she did , I returned , with a fine assumption of scorn , of course she did . 
There are wives who forsake their husbands and and go off with a handsomer man , as the poet says and mine , mine , alas ! was one of them . 
Middle height , slim and fair , with red goldy hair and big blue eyes about thirty , I should say . 
I want to have them to confront her with , when I do find her . 
Whim , sir , whim ! and few human actions admit of more satisfactory solution . 
Like Shylock , I'll say It is my humour . 
But no ! I'll be more explanatory . 
I will now lay before you . 
I suppose I could have passed for a pedlar , but undoubtedly it would have been very embarrassing . 
However , as it happened , I remained undisturbed , and was able to examine my purchases at leisure . 
I had never seen a petticoat so near before , at all events I had never given one such close attention . 
What delicious dainty things they are ! How essentially womanly as I hope no one would call a pair of trousers essentially manly . 
There was a time indeed , and not so long ago , when brave men wore garments no less dainty . 
Rupert's Cavaliers were every bit as particular about their lace collars and frills as the lady whose pretty limbs once warmed this cambric . 
But where is the name ? Ah ! here it is ! What sweet writing ! Sylvia Joy , No. . 
I already felt myself falling in love with its unseen owner . 
With such a petticoat and such a name , Sylvia herself could not be otherwise than delightful too . 
But who is Sylvia , who is she ? and likewise where is Sylvia , where is she ? Obviously they were questions not to be answered off hand . 
Was not my future at all events my immediate future to be spent in answering them ? Indeed , curiously enough , my recent haste to have them answered had suddenly died down . 
A sort of matrimonial security possessed me . 
To come to a decision is always to bring something to an end . 
And , with something of a pang , resolutely stifled , I realised for a moment the true blessedness of the single state I was so soon to leave behind . 
At all events , a little golden fragment of bachelorhood remained . 
There was yet a fertile strip of time wherein to sow my last handful of the wild oats of youth . 
It was a scene for which the nineteenth century has no worthy use . 
It finds ignoble occupation as a gaping ground for the vacuous tourist , somewhat as Heine might have imagined Pan carrying the gentleman's luggage from the coach to the hotel . 
It suffers teetotal picnic parties to encamp amid its savage hollows , and it humbly allows itself to be painted by the worst artists . 
Like a lion in a menagerie , it is a survival of the extinct chaos entrapped and exhibited amid the smug parks and well rolled downs of England . 
I came upon it by a winding ledge of road , which clung to the bare side of the hill like the battlements of some huge castle . 
It was a place to quote Alastor in , and nothing but a bad memory prevented my affrighting the oaks and rills with declamation . 
At length upon the lone Chorasmian shore He paused I mouthed for the fourth time . 
His longish golden hair had no doubt its share in the effect , as likewise the soft yellow silk tie that fluttered like a flame in the speed of his going . 
His blue eyes were tragically fresh and clear , as though they had as yet been little used . 
There were little wings of haste upon his feet , and he came straight to me , with the air of the Angel Gabriel about to make his divine announcement . 
For a moment I thought that he was an apparition of prophecy charged to announce the maiden of the Lord for whom I was seeking . 
However , his brief flushed question was not of these things . 
The heavens opened , and across the blue rift it hung in a glory of celestial fire , while from behind and above the clouds came a warbling as of innumerable larks . 
Does Mr. Gladstone , I wonder , instruct his valet to pack his Gladstone ? How strange it must seem ! Try it yourself some day and its effect on your servant . 
Ask him , for example , to pack your and see how he'll stare . 
Then I once more rebounded heavenwards , at the vision of the eager dreamy lad whose question had set going all this odd clockwork of association . 
And then , all of a sudden , a little way up the ferny grassy hillside , I caught sight of the end of a book half hidden among the ferns . 
I climbed up to it . 
Of course it was that very green Shelley which the young stranger wouldn't lose for the world . 
A little flowery plot of girl's handwriting had caught my eye , and a girl's pretty name . 
When Love and Beauty meet , it is hard not to play the eavesdropper , and it was easy to guess that Love and Beauty met upon that page . 
Anthony had no harder fight with the ladies he was unpolite enough to call demons , than I in resisting the temptation to take another look at that pen and ink love making . 
Now , as I look back , I think it was sheer priggishness to resist so human and yet so reverent an impulse . 
There is nothing sacred from reverence , and love's lovers have a right to regard themselves as the confidants of lovers , whenever they may chance to surprise either them or their letters . 
I slipped the book , in distracted search for which he was evidently still engaged , under the ferns , and , leisurely lighting a pipe , prepared to tease him . 
He was presently within hail , and , looking up , caught sight of me . 
Have you found your Shelley yet ? I called down to him , as he stood a moment in the road . 
No ! But he meant to find it , if he had to hunt every square foot of the valley inch by inch . 
Wouldn't any other book do , I asked him . 
Would he take a Boccaccio , or a Golden Ass , or a Tom Jones , in exchange ? for of such consisted my knapsack library . 
He laughed a negative , and it seemed a shame to tease him . 
It is not so much the book itself , he said . 
But the giver ? I suggested . 
Of course , he blushingly replied . 
Well , suppose I have found it ? I continued . 
He could not thank me enough and as we stepped out to the inn , some three or four miles on the road , I elicited something of his story . 
He was a clerk in a city office , he said , but his dreams were not commercial . 
His one dream was to be a great poet , or a great writer of some sort , and this was one of his holidays . 
But , alas ! as he talked on , with lighted face and chin in the air , how cruelly I realised how little I had fulfilled mine . 
And how hard it was to talk to him , without crushing some flower of his fancy or casting doubt upon his dreams . 
Oh , the gulf between twenty and thirty ! I had never quite comprehended it before . 
He had no hope that had not long been my despair , no aversion that I had not accepted among the more or less comfortable conditions of the universe . 
He was all for nature and liberty , whereas I had now come to realise the charm of the artificial , and the social value of constraint . 
As the water warmed him , he began to expand into further confidence , and then he told me the story of his Shelley , if a story it can be called . 
I listened to his rhapsodies of HER and HER and HER with an aching heart . 
I told him all about my whim , just for the pleasure of watching his face light up with youth's generous worship of all such fantastic nonsense . 
You should have seen his enthusiasm and heard all the things he said . 
Why , to encounter such a whimsical fellow as myself in this unimaginative age was like meeting a fairy prince , or coming unexpectedly upon Don Quixote attacking the windmill . 
Of course , I forgot , he said , with I'm afraid something of a sigh . 
For you see he was barely twenty , and to have met your ideal so early in life is apt to rob the remainder of the journey of something of its zest . 
I suppose no boy of twenty really loves a WOMEN , but loves only his etherealised extract of woman , entirely free from earthy adulteration . 
I noticed the words pure and natural in constant use by my young friend . 
His answer went to my heart . 
Paint a WOMAN ! he exclaimed . 
It was as though you had said paint an angel ! I could bear no more of it . 
The gulf yawned shiveringly wide at remarks like that so , with the privilege of an elder , I declared it time for bed , and yawned off to my room . 
Next morning we bade good bye , and went our several ways . 
As we parted , he handed me a letter which I was not to open till I was well on my journey . 
We waved good bye to each other till the turnings of the road made parting final , and then , sitting down by the roadside , I opened the letter . 
It proved to be not a letter , but a poem , which he had evidently written after I had left him for bed . 
Thus only shall you find your pearl , O seeker of the Golden Girl ! She trod but now the grassy way , A vision of eternal May . 
The devil take his impudence ! Only the pure in heart , clean , unsullied thought . 
How like the cheek of twenty ! And all the same how true ! Dear lad , how true ! Certainly , the child is father to the man . 
BOOK II CHAPTER I IN WHICH I DECIDE TO BE YOUNG AGAIN Yes , I said to myself , the lad is quite right I will follow his advice . 
I'm afraid I was in danger of developing into a sad cynic , with a taste for the humour of this world . 
I will grow young and serious again . 
Yes , why not ? I will take a vow of Youth . 
One's age is entirely a matter of the imagination . 
From this moment I am no longer thirty . 
Thirty falls from me like a hideous dream . 
I bring down my stick upon the ground with a mighty ring of resolution , and the miracle is done . 
These , I take it , are the fundamental conditions of being young again . 
And as for the Quest , it shall forthwith be undertaken in an entirely serious and high minded spirit . 
From this moment I am on the look out for a really transcendental attachment . 
No bright eyed bar maids , however refined , need apply . 
Ladies who are prodigal of their white petticoats are no longer fit company for me . 
Indeed I shall no longer look upon a petticoat , unless I am able first entirely to spiritualise it . 
It must first be disinfected of every earthly thought . 
Oh , come , ye merry , merry maidens ! The fairy prince is on the fairy road . 
We were both making for the same little town , it appeared , and as the sun was setting we reached it together . 
I entered the town over the bridge , and the stream under it , washing the walls of the high piled , many gabled old inn where I proposed to pass the night . 
I should hear it still rippling on with its gentle harpsichord tinkle , as I stretched myself down among the cool lavendered sheets , and little by little let slip the multifarious world . 
The inn windows beamed cheerily , a home of ruddy rest . 
The stream was still there , and singing the same sweet old song . 
You could hear it long after it was out of sight , in the gathering darkness , like an old nurse humming lullabies in the twilight . 
There is something perilously sensuous in the relaxation of one's muscles , both of mind and body , after a day thus well spent . 
Lighting up my pipe once more , and drawing to the fire , I suddenly realised a sense of loneliness . 
So to say , we would split the difference between the ideal and the human , and be , say , twenty five . 
And the worst of it was that her merry eye was in partnership with a merry tongue . 
Indeed , for some unexplained reason , she was bubbling over with congested laughter , the reason for which mere embarrassment set one inquiring . 
You can imagine the colour of my cheeks at the discovery . 
No doubt I was already the laughing stock of the whole inn . 
Would you like to know its name ? Well , I know it as The Singing Stream . 
If you can find it under that name , you are welcome . 
Indeed , I congratulated myself , as I looked my last at the sign of The Singing Stream , that this had been quite in my early manner . 
Indeed , having led me to one pleasant adventure , its purpose , I afterwards realised , was to lead me to another , and then to go about its own bright business . 
I don't think either of us had much idea where we were or whither we were bound . 
Our guiding principle seemed to be to get as much sunshine as possible , and to find the easiest road . 
We avoided dull sandy levels and hard rocky places , with the same instinctive dexterity . 
We gloomed together through dark dingles , and came out on sunny reaches with the same gilded magnificence . 
And to breathe and see was all one asked . 
The month of May was ever his tour de force . 
Each year he has strained and stimulated his art to surpass himself , seeking ever a finer and a brighter gold , a more celestial azure . 
It was indeed a day for nature to be proud of . 
So seductive was the sunshine that even the shy trout leapt at noonday , eager apparently to change his silver for gold . 
I had no will but to follow , no desire but to see . 
Indeed , I had hardly strolled on for another quarter of a mile , when I was suddenly aroused from wool gathering by his loud cries for help . 
Looking up , I saw him flashing desperately in mid air , a lovely foot of writhing silver . 
In another second he was swung through the sunlight , and laid out breathing hard in a death bed of buttercups and daisies . 
There was not a moment to be lost , if I were to repay the debt of gratitude which in a flash I had seen that I owed him . 
Now that's good of you , I said , with thankful eyes , and shows a kind heart . 
And kind hearts , they say , are more than coronets , she replied merrily , indulging in that derisive quotation which seems to be the final reward of the greatest poets . 
For a moment there was a silence , during which I confess to wondering what I should say next . 
However , she supplied my place . 
That trout was , so to speak , out of the Arabian Nights . 
Only five minutes ago it was a May day madness of mine to think that he leaped out of the water and gave me a highly important message . 
So I begged his life from a mere fancy . 
It was just a whim , which I trust you will excuse . 
A whim ! So you are a follower of the great god Whim , she replied , with somewhat of an eager interest in her voice . 
How nice it is to meet a fellow worshipper ! Do women ever have whims ? I respectfully asked . 
I don't know about other women , she replied . 
Indeed , I'm afraid I'm unnatural enough to take no interest in them at all . 
But , as for me , well , what nonsense ! Tell me some more about the trout . 
What was the wonderful message he seemed to give you ? Or perhaps I oughtn't to ask ? I'm afraid , I said , it would hardly translate into anything approaching common sense . 
Did I ask for common sense ? she retorted . 
It was true , she hadn't . 
But then I couldn't , with any respect for her , tell her the trout's message , or , with any respect for myself , recall those atrocious doggerel lines . 
In my dilemma , I caught sight of a pretty book lying near her fishing basket , and diverted the talk by venturing to ask its name . 
'T is of Aucassin and Nicolete , she replied , with something in her voice which seemed to imply that the tender old story would be familiar to me . 
My memory served me for once gallantly . 
How charming of you to know it ! she laughed . 
You are the only man in this county , or the next , or the next , who knows it , I'm sure . 
Are the women of the county more familiar with it ? I replied . 
But tell me about the trout , she once more persisted . 
At the same moment , however , there came from a little distance the musical tinkle of a bell that sounded like silver , a fairy like and almost startling sound . 
It is my lunch , she explained . 
If you'll be content with rustic fare , and promise to be amusing , it would be very pleasant if you'd join me . 
There was no real pity in it . 
Not without reason , for , like any really charming personality , she was very difficult to picture . 
Paint a woman ! as our young friend Alastor said . 
Now the face of Nicolete , as I learnt in time to call her , was just soul and bloom , perhaps mainly bloom . 
I never noticed whether she had any other features except her eyes . 
I suppose she had a nose a little lace pocket handkerchief I have by me at the moment is almost too small to be evidence on that important point . 
But if she were twenty years young , she was equally twenty years OLD and twenty years old , in some respects , is the greatest age attained to by man or woman . 
In this she rather differed from Alastor , of whom otherwise she was the female counterpart . 
Her talk , and something rather in her voice than her talk , soon revealed her as a curious mixture of youth and age , of dreamer and desillusionee . 
One soon realised that she was too young , was hoping too much from life , to spend one's days with . 
of the romantic British aristocracy . 
She had made youth's common mistake of beginning life with books , which can only be used without danger by those who are in a position to test their statements . 
Youth naturally believes everything that is told it , especially in books . 
Now , books are simply professional liars about life , and the books that are best worth reading are those which lie the most beautifully . 
Yet , in fairness , we must add that they are liars , not with intent to mislead , but merely with the tenderest purpose to console . 
Never was such a nest of singing birds . 
Here day by day Nicolete fed her young soul on the nightingale's tongues of literature , and put down her book only to listen to the nightingale's tongues outside . 
Yea , sun , moon , and stars were all in the conspiracy to lie to her of the loveliness of the world and the good intentions of life . 
And now , thus unexpectedly , I found myself joining the nefarious conspiracy . 
You see you were expected , said Nicolete , with her pretty laugh . 
I dreamed I should have a visitor to day , and told Susan to lay the lunch for two . 
You mustn't be surprised at that , she added mischievously it has often happened before . 
I dream that dream every other night , and Susan lays for two every day . 
A certain great poet , I think it was Byron , objected to seeing women in the act of eating . 
He thought their eating should be done in private . 
It is this gradual humanising of the divine female that brings about the spiritualising of the unregenerate male . 
In the earliest stages of love the services are small that we are privileged to do for the loved one . 
And while we ate and drank and laughed and chatted , the books around us were weaving their spells . 
Even before the invention of printing books were love's purveyors . 
The method is so easy and so unsuspect . 
And what a touchstone books thus become ! Indeed they simplify love making , from every point of view . 
With books so inexpensive and accessible to all as they are to day , no one need run any risks of marrying the wrong woman . 
Name your favourite writer should be one of the first questions in the Engagement Catechism . 
There is , indeed , no such short cut to knowledge of each other as a talk about books . 
Indeed , a love for any one of these significant writers will be enough , not to speak of an admiration for Aucassin and Nicolete . 
Whether or not the malady would spread till it reached the heart is the secret of some future chapter . 
I simply say , So it happened , or So it is , and expect the reader to take my word . 
If he be uncivil enough to doubt it , we may as well stop playing this game of fancy . 
And not only did it happen , but to the whimsically minded , to the true children of fancy , it will seem the most natural thing in the world . 
Indeed , there is no relative of hero or heroine too humble or stupid for such a novelist as the great Balzac . 
He will invite the dullest of them to stay with him for quite prolonged visits , and without a murmur set apart a suite of chapters for their accommodation . 
If he will only put any such thoughts from his mind , I promise to proceed with the story in a brief and business like manner forthwith . 
We are back once more at the close of the last chapter , in Nicolete's book bower in the wildwood . 
It is an hour or two later , and the afternoon sun is flooding with a searching glory all the secret places of the woodland . 
Leaving that melancholy relic of carnivorous appetite , it turned its bold gold gaze on Nicolete . 
At the same moment Nicolete's starry eyes took the same direction then there broke from her her lovely laughter , merry and inextinguishable . 
So that is why you pleaded so hard for that poor trout , she said , when I had finished . 
Well , you are a fairy prince indeed ! Now , do you know what the punishment of your nonsense is to be ? Is it very severe and humiliating ? I asked . 
You must judge of that . 
Of course you are not serious ? I am , really , and you will take me , won't you ? she continued pleadingly . 
You don't know how we women envy you men those wonderful walking tours we can only read about in Hazlitt or Stevenson . 
We are not allowed to move without a nurse or a footman . 
From the day we are born to the day we die , we are never left a moment to ourselves . 
It isn't at all , she persisted , with a fine blush . 
If you will only be nice and kind , and help me to some Rosalind's clothes . 
Oh , how glorious it would be ! It was in vain that I brought the batteries of common sense to bear upon her whim . 
I raised every possible objection in vain . 
I pointed out the practical difficulties . 
Then there was her companion . 
Nicolete was confident of her assistance . 
Then I tried vilifying myself . 
How could she run the risk of trusting herself to such intimate companionship with a man whom she hadn't known half a dozen hours ? This she laughed to scorn . 
All that was true enough . 
And how charming it would be to have such a dainty companion ! then the fun , the fancy , the whim of it all . 
What was the use of setting out to seek adventures if I didn't pursue them when found . 
So soon as the two sexes wear the same clothes , they may as well wear nothing the game of sex is up . 
In this matter , as in others , we cannot both have our cake and eat it . 
All romance , like all temptation , is founded on the Fascination of the Exception . 
So soon as the exception becomes , instead of merely proving , the rule , that particular avenue of romance is closed . 
The New Woman of the future will be the woman with the petticoats , she who shall restore the ancient Eleusinian mysteries of the silk skirt and the tea gown . 
During those three days while the fairy tailors were at work our friendship had not been idle . 
By the memory of the Blessed Saint Izaak , I swore it ! My arrival at Beaucaire was one of great excitement . 
Nicolete and the Obstacle were both awaiting me , for the mysteries of masculine attire were not to be explored alone . 
The parcel was snatched quite unceremoniously from my hands , the door shut upon me , and I laughingly bidden go listen to the nightingale . 
This I hurriedly hid in my heart for future conversation , as the pre arranged tinkle of the silver bell called me to the rose . 
The two girls were evidently proud of themselves at having succeeded so well with the mysterious garments . 
She didn't , I'm afraid , look like a young man of our degenerate day . 
She was far too beautiful and distinguished for that . 
Besides , her dark curling hair , quite short for a woman , was too long , and her eyes like the eyes of all poets were women's eyes . 
Her knapsack was already packed , and its contents included a serge skirt in case of emergencies . 
Already , she naughtily reminded me , we possessed a petticoat between us . 
The brief remainder of the evening passed in excited chatter and cigarettes , and in my instructing Nicolete in certain tricks of masculine deportment . 
The chief difficulty I hardly like mentioning and if the Obstacle had not been present , I certainly dare not have spoken of it to Nicolete . 
I mean that she was so shy about her pretty legs . 
She couldn't cross them with any successful nonchalance . 
You must take your legs more for granted , dear Nicolete , I summoned courage to say . 
The nonchalance of the legs is the first lesson to be learnt in such a masquerade as this . 
The Obstacle was there to see us start . 
She and Nicolete exchanged many kisses which were hard to bear , and the first quarter of an hour of our journey was much obstructed by the farewells of her far fluttering handkerchief . 
When at last we were really alone , I turned and looked at Nicolete striding manfully at my side , just to make sure that it was really true . 
Well , we're in for it now , I said aren't you frightened ? Oh , it's wonderful , she replied don't spoil it by talking . 
We had agreed to leave our destination to chance . 
We read the sign post . 
Which shall we choose ? I said , Aucassin , true love and fair , To what land do we repair ? Don't you think this one , she replied . 
All the longer to be free , cried Nicolete , recklessly . 
So be it , I assented . 
It is not for me to essay again where the ingenious M. Jules Verne and Mr. William Morris have preceded me . 
Besides , the journey is nowadays much more usual , and therefore much less adventurous , than when those revered writers first described it . 
In the middle ages a journey to the moon with a woman you loved was a very perilous matter indeed . 
Even in the last century the roads were much beset with danger but in our own day , like most journeys , it is accomplished with ease and safety in a few hours . 
Of course , all depends on what you call an event . 
To me it was one prolonged divine event , and , with such daily intercourse with Nicolete , I never dreamed of craving for any other excitement . 
And so a week went by . 
Apart from anything else , we were such excellent chums . 
We got along together as if indeed we had been two brothers , equable in our tempers and one in our desires . 
At last the feeling on my side became so importunate that I could no longer keep silence . 
We were seated together taking tea at a small lonely inn , whose windows looked out over a romantic little lake , backed by Salvator Rosa pine woods . 
The sun was beginning to grow dreamy , and the whole world to wear a dangerously sentimental expression . 
She did not withdraw it , and our eyes met with a steady gaze of love . 
Nicolete , I said presently , when I could speak , it is time for you to be going back home . 
Why ? she asked breathlessly . 
Because , I answered , I must love you if you stay . 
Would you then bid me go ? she said . 
Nicolete , I said , don't tempt me . 
Be a good girl and go home . 
But supposing I don't want to go home , she said supposing oh , supposing I love you too ? Would you still bid me go ? Yes , I said . 
In that case it would be even more imperative . 
Aucassin ! It is true , it is true , dear Nicolete . 
Then , Aucassin , she replied , almost sternly , in her great girlish love , this is true also , I love you . 
I have never loved , shall never love , any man but you ! Nicolete ! Aucassin ! There were no more words spoken between us for a full hour that afternoon . 
At all events , a day or two more or less of moonshine would make no matter either way . 
And so all next day we walked hand in hand through Paradise . 
But true is it also that no less sweet is the first kiss of the last woman we love . 
It was curious that the first difficulty of our pilgrimage should befall us the very next day . 
I think I was more troubled than Nicolete . 
Agnes' Eve across half the room . 
After I had lain among the sheets some five or ten minutes , I was suddenly startled by a little voice within the room saying , I'm not asleep . 
Well , you should be , naughty child . 
Now shut your eyes and go to sleep , and fair dreams and sweet repose , I replied . 
Won't you give me one little good night kiss ? I gave you one downstairs . 
Softly I released her , stroked her brown hair , and turned again to my pillow . 
Presently the little voice was in the room again , Mayn't I hold your hand ? Somehow I feel lonely and frightened . 
So our hands made a bridge across which our dreams might pass through the night , and after a little while I knew that she slept . 
As I lay thus holding her hand , and listening to her quiet breathing , I realised once more what my young Alastor had meant by the purity of high passion . 
Nicolete , I said , as we rested awhile by the roadside , I have something serious to say to you . 
Yes , dear , she said , looking rather frightened . 
Well , dear , it is this , our love must end with our holiday . 
No good can come of it . 
But oh , why ? I love you . 
Yes , and I love you , love you as I never thought I could love again . 
Yet I know it is all a dangerous dream , a trick of our brains , an illusion of our tastes . 
But oh , why ? I love you . 
Yes , you do to day , I know but it couldn't last . 
I believe I could love you for ever but even so , it wouldn't be right . 
You couldn't go on loving me . 
I am too old , too tired , too desillusione , perhaps too selfish . 
I will love you always ! said girl Nicolete . 
Whereas you , I continued , disregarding the lovely refrain of her tear choked voice , are standing on the wonderful threshold of life , waiting in dreamland for the dawn . 
Then shall I take no other , said Nicolete , with set face . 
Oh , yes , you will , I rejoined let but a month or two pass , and you will see how wise I was , after all . 
There is nothing so perilously difficult as the daily intercourse of two people who love each other . 
You are too young to realise its danger . 
And I couldn't bear to see our love worn away by the daily dropping of tears , not to speak of its being rent by the dynamite of daily quarrels . 
We know each other's tastes , but we know hardly anything of each other's natures . 
Nicolete looked at me strangely . 
'Troth , it was a strange way to make love , I knew . 
And what else ? she asked somewhat coldly . 
Well , then , though it's not a thing one cares to speak of , I'm a poor man Nicolete broke through my sentence with a scornful exclamation . 
You , I continued straight on , well , you have been accustomed to a certain spaciousness and luxury of life . 
This it would be out of my power to continue for you . 
These are real reasons , very real reasons , dear Nicolete , though you may not think so now . 
The law of the world in these matters is very right . 
For the rich and the poor to marry is to risk , terribly risk , the very thing they would marry for their love . 
Love is better an unmarried than a married regret . 
Think of your little woodland chalet , and your great old trees in the park , you couldn't live without them . 
Trees ! retorted Nicolete , what are trees ? Ah , my dear girl , they are a good deal , particularly when they are genealogical , as my one tree is not . 
No man situated as I am who loved you could have talked otherwise . 
Well , I have heard it all , weighed it all , said Nicolete , presently and to me it is but as thistledown against the love within my heart . 
Will you cast away a woman who loves you for theories ? You know you love me , know I love you . 
We should have our trials , our ups and downs , I know but surely it is by those that true love learns how to grow more true and strong . 
Oh , I cannot argue ! Tell me again , do you love me ? And there she broke down and fell sobbing into my arms . 
I consoled her as best I might , and presently she looked up at me through her tears . 
Tell me again , she said , that you love me , just as you did yesterday , and promise never to speak of all those cruel things again . 
Ah ! have you thought of the kind of men you would give me up to ? At that I confess I shuddered , and I gave her the required assurance . 
And you won't be wise and reasonable and ridiculous any more ? No , I answered adding in my mind , not , at all events , for the present . 
Happily these interior problems are not infrequently resolved by quite exterior forces . 
Aucassin , gasped Nicolete , it is my father ! It was too true . 
The old man's keen eye had caught sight of Nicolete at the window also , and in another moment we were all three face to face . 
I must do the Major General the justice of saying that he made as little of a scene of it as possible . 
Now , my girl , he said , I have come to put an end to this nonsense . 
Have you a petticoat with you ? Well , go upstairs and get it on . 
I will wait for you here . 
On you , sir , I shall waste no words . 
From what I have heard , you are as moonstruck as my daughter . 
I should prefer , he said , not to discuss the matter . 
Alas ! it was for no such emergency as this that it had been destined that merry night when she had packed it in her knapsack . 
With a stern bow her father turned from me to join her but she suddenly slipped past him , threw her arms round me , and kissed me one long passionate kiss . 
In another moment she had been driven away , and I sat as one stupefied in the inn window . 
But a few short minutes ago she had been sitting merrily prattling by my side , and now I was once more as lonely as if we had never met . 
Presently I became conscious in my reverie of a little crumpled piece of paper on the floor . 
It was a little note pencilled in her bedroom at the last moment . 
Aucassin , it ran , just like her last passionate words , be true . 
I will never forget you . 
Stay here till I write to you , and oh , write to me soon ! Your broken hearted Nicolete . 
CHAPTER XII IN WHICH I REVIEW MY ACTIONS AND RENEW MY RESOLUTIONS No doubt the youthful reader will have but a poor opinion of me after the last two chapters . 
He will think that in the scene with the Major General I acted with lamentably little spirit , and that generally my friend Alastor would have proved infinitely more worthy of the situation . 
It is quite true , I confess it . 
The whole episode was made for Alastor . 
Nicolete and he were born for each other . 
Alas ! it is one of the many drawbacks of experience that it frequently prevents our behaving with spirit . 
I must be content to appeal to the wiser and therefore sadder reader , of whom I have but a poor opinion if he too fails to understand me . 
Truly it had been but the work of a moment , and there was only one consideration which prevented my following this now I call that heroic course . 
It is a consideration I dare hardly venture to write , and the confession of which will , I know , necessitate my changing my age back again to thirty on the instant . 
Dear was she to me as the birds that out in the old garden yonder sing and sing their best to lift up my leaden heart . 
She was dear as the Spring itself , she was only less dear than Autumn . 
He had just come in time to behead the Lady Jane Grey of our dreams . 
It goes on moaning in such a heart breaking fashion , and you never know when it is dead . 
Even then it will recover , and you will go on being a murderer , making for yourself day by day a murderer's face , without the satisfaction of having really murdered . 
But what of Nicolete ? do you exclaim . 
Have you no thought for her , bleeding her heart away in solitude ? Can you so soon forget those appealing eyes ? Yes , I have thought for her . 
Would God that I could bear for her those growing pains of the heart ! and I shall never forget those farewell eyes . 
Better give it up at once , and go back to my books and my bachelorhood , if I were so difficult to please . 
No wonder my kind providence felt provoked . 
It had provided me with the sweetest pink and porcelain dream of a girl , and might reasonably have concluded that his labours on my behalf were at an end . 
As my heart had warned me at the beginning , she was hoping too much from life to spend one's days with . 
She lacked the subtle half tones of experience . 
She lacked all that a pretty wrinkle or two might have given . 
There was no shadowy melancholy in her sky clear eyes . 
These characteristics I had yet to find in woman . 
There was still , therefore , an object to my quest . 
Indeed my experience had provided me with a formula . 
I was in search of a woman who , in addition to every other feminine charm and virtue , was a woman who had suffered . 
With this prayer I turned once more to the genius of my pilgrimage . 
Grant me , I asked , but this A WOMAN WHO HAS SUFFERED ! and , apparently as a consequence , he became once more quite genial . 
He seemed to mean that a prayer so easy to grant would put any god into a good temper and possibly he smiled with a deeper meaning too . 
I found myself one afternoon again upon the road . 
The day had been very warm and dusty , and had turned sleepy towards tea time . 
I had now pretty clearly in my mind what I wanted . 
after my name in the visitors' book . 
I never wanted to be young again as long as I lived . 
Youth was too much like the Sunday clothes of one's boyhood . 
It was in this frame of mind that I came upon the following scene . 
My coming had not aroused her , and so I stole nearer to her on tiptoe . 
But her most striking feature was an opulent mass of dark red hair , which had fallen in some disorder and made quite a pillow for her head . 
Poor child ! she was tired out . 
She must never be left to sleep on there , for she seemed good to sleep till midnight . 
I turned to her bicycle , and , examining it with the air of a man who had won silver cups in his day , I speedily discovered what had been the mischief . 
The tire of the front wheel had been pierced , and a great thorn was protruding from the place . 
Evidently this had been too much for poor Rosalind , and it was not unlikely that she had cried herself to sleep . 
I bent over her to look yes , there were traces of tears . 
Poor thing ! Then I had a kindly human impulse . 
What do you think of the idea ? But one important detail I have omitted from my description of the sleeper . 
Her left hand lay gloveless , and of the four rings on her third finger one was a wedding ring . 
Such red hair , and a wedding ring ! I exclaimed inwardly . 
She had only to sleep long enough , a sly thought suggested , to necessitate her ending her day's journey at the same inn as myself , some five miles on the road . 
One virtue at least the reader will allow to this history , we are seldom far away from an inn in its pages . 
And she wasn't to be disturbed ! No ! she mustn't waken before seven at the latest , I said to myself , holding my breath and starting in terror at every noise . 
Once a great noisy bee was within an ace of waking her , but I caught him with inspired dexterity , and he buzzed around her head no more . 
But despite the providential loneliness of the road , there were one or two terrors that could not be disposed of so summarily . 
A sprightly tramp promised greater difficulty , and nothing but some ferocious pantomime and a shilling persuaded him to forego a choice fantasia of cockney humour . 
A poor tired Italian organ grinder , tramping with an equally tired monkey along the dusty roads , had to be bought off in a similar manner , though he only cost sixpence . 
And then at last , just as my watch pointed to . 
Now for this horrid puncture ! were the first words I was to hear fall from her lips . 
She sought for the wound in the india rubber with growing bewilderment . 
Goodness ! was her next exclamation , why , there's nothing wrong with it . 
She was sweetness itself on the instant . 
Excuse you ! she said , I should think so . 
Who wouldn't ? You can't tell the load you've taken off my mind . 
I'm sure I must have groaned in my sleep for I confess I cried myself to sleep over it . 
I thought so , I said with gravity , and eyes that didn't dare to smile outright till they had permission , which , however , was not long withheld them . 
Especially as it's growing dark , I repeated . 
You won't be going much farther to night . 
Have you fixed on your inn ? I continued innocently . 
She had but that was in a town too far to reach to night , after her long sleep . 
You might have wakened me , she said . 
I never did a better five miles in my life . 
CHAPTER III TWO TOWN MICE AT A COUNTRY INN . 
By the time I had washed off the day's dust it was ready , and a merry meal it proved . 
Positively , I think that in the embarrassment of that instant I had made some inspired remark to Rosalind about the lovely country which lay dreamy in the afterglow outside our window . 
Oh , yes , I remember the very words . 
They were What a heavenly landscape ! or something equally striking . 
London ! I hadn't realised till this moment how I had been missing it all these days of rustication , and my heart went out to it with a vast homesickness . 
Yes ! the Strand , I repeated tenderly , the Strand at night ! Indeed , yes ! what is more beautiful in the whole world ? she joined in ardently . 
The little suppers after the theatre Please don't , she cried , it is cruel and I saw that her eyes were indeed glistening with tears . 
But , of course , I continued , to give a slight turn aside in our talk , it is very wrong of us to have such sophisticated tastes . 
We ought to love these lonely hills and meadows far more . 
The natural man revels in solitude , and wants no wittier company than birds and flowers . 
Wordsworth made a constant companion of a pet daisy . 
He seldom went abroad without one or two trotting at his side , and a skylark would keep Shelley in society for a week . 
But they were poets , retorted Rosalind you don't call poets natural . 
Why , they are the most unnatural of men . 
The natural person loves the society of his kind , whereas the poet runs away from it . 
Well , of course , there are poets and poets , poets sociable and poets very unsociable . 
Wordsworth made the country , but Lamb made the town and there is quite a band of poets nowadays who share his distaste for mountains , and take London for their muse . 
If you'll promise not to cry again , I'll recall some lines by a friend of mine which were written for town tastes like ours . 
I was diffident of quoting it after such lines as Rosalind had recalled , but by the time we had reached our coffee , I plucked up courage to mention it . 
And those who'd fain know how we fared Follow and find us , Safe on the hills , with all the world Safely behind us . 
Rosalind smiled as I finished . 
I'm afraid , she said , the song is as dangerous as the hill . 
Of course it has more meanings than one ? Perhaps two , I assented . 
And the second more important than the first . 
Maybe , I smiled however , I hope you like it . 
Forgive me for being such a fool , she managed to wring out . 
I endeavoured to soothe her with such words as seemed fitting and as she was crying because she really couldn't help it , she didn't cry long . 
These tears proved , what certain indications of manner had already hinted to me , that Rosalind was more artless than I had at first supposed . 
CHAPTER IV MARRIAGE A LA MODE For Rosalind was no victim of the monster man , as you may have supposed her , no illustration of his immemorial perfidies . 
But no doubt the reader would prefer a little straightforward narrative . 
However , they are young people of the introspective modern type , with a new theory for everything . 
About marriage and the law of happiness in that blessed estate , they boasted the latest philosophical patents . 
To them , among other matters , the secret of unhappy marriages was as simple as can be . 
It was in nothing more or less than the excessive familiarity of ordinary married life , and the lack of personal freedom allowed both parties to the contract . 
Thus love grew commonplace , and the unhappy ones to weary of each other by excessive and enforced association . 
These and similar other safeguards of individual liberty they had in mock earnest drawn up and signed on their marriage eve , as a sort of supplemental wedding service . 
And to this did Orlando and his Rosalind set their hands and hearts and lips . 
They hadn't kept any other of their resolutions , thus Rosalind let it out ! this must be kept . 
The tears , therefore , that is , the first lot of tears by the roadside , had not been all on account of the injured bicycle , you see . 
On the contrary , I expressed my firm conviction that Orlando was probably even more miserable than she was . 
Do you really think so ? she asked eagerly , her poor miserable face growing bright a moment with hope and gratitude . 
Undoubtedly , I answered sententiously . 
Are you quite sure ? asked Rosalind , with an unconvinced half smile . 
Laws and systems are meant for the unhappy and the untractable , not for people like you , for whom Love makes its own laws . 
Yes , that is what we used to say and indeed , we thought that this was one of love's laws , this experiment , as you call it . 
But it was quite a mistake , I went on in my character as matrimonial oracle . 
A whole month in a year ! Think what that would mean in a lifetime . 
How long do you expect to live and love together ? Say another fifty years at the most . 
Well , fifty ones are fifty . 
Fifty months equal four twelves are forty eight and two over four years and two months . 
But , of course , we have perfect trust in each other , said Rosalind presently , with charming illogicality . 
No doubt , I said but Love , like a good householder , does well not to live too much on trust . 
But surely love means perfect trust , said Rosalind . 
Theoretically , yes practically , no . 
On the contrary , it means exactly the opposite . 
Trust , perfect trust , with loved ones far away ! No , it is an inhuman ideal , and the more one loves the less one lives up to it . 
If not , what do these tears mean ? Oh , no ! Rosalind retorted , with a flush , you mustn't say that . 
It isn't that it's simply that I can't bear to be away from him . 
What women mean by trusting might afford a subject for an interesting disquisition . 
However , I forbore to pursue the matter , and answered Rosalind's remark in a practical spirit . 
That's what I thought , said Rosalind . 
No but I have a good guess , said Rosalind . 
I think it's very likely that Orlando has gone there and that's just where I was going when we met . 
I will tell the reader more about Yellowsands in the next chapter . 
Meanwhile , let us complete Rosalind's arrangements . 
This arranged , we said good night , Rosalind with ever such a brightened up face , of which I thought for half an hour and then fell asleep to dream of Yellowsands . 
CHAPTER V CONCERNING THE HAVEN OF YELLOWSANDS On the morrow , at the peep of day , Rosalind was off to seek her lord . 
An hour or so after I started in leisurely pursuit . 
Yellowsands ! I had heard in a vague way of the place , as a whim of a certain young nobleman who combined brains with the pursuit of pleasure . 
Like most ideas , it was simple enough when once conceived . 
William Blake proposed to rebuild Jerusalem in this green and pleasant land . 
Once it was the Puritan Fathers who left our coasts , he is recorded to have said nowadays it is our Prodigal Sons . 
No doubt it was in further elaboration of this aphorism that the little steamboat that sailed every other day from Yellowsands to the beckoning shores of France was called the Mayflower . 
My lord's plan had been simple . 
So much to give the reader some idea of the secret watering place of Yellowsands , situated at the mouth of that romantic little torrent , the river Sly . 
Such further description as may be needed may be kept till we come within sight of its gilded roofs and marble terraces . 
CHAPTER VI THE MOORLAND OF THE APOCALYPSE I reckoned that it would take me two or three days , leisurely walking , to reach Yellowsands . 
Rosalind would , of course , arrive there long before me but that I did not regret , as I was in a mood to find company in my own thoughts . 
Her story gave me plenty to think of . 
I dwelt particularly on the careless extravagance of the happy . 
A sudden slip , and they had lost it for ever , and might only watch its shimmering fall to the bottom of the world . 
Theories ! Theories are for the unknown and the unhappy . 
No ! he craves nothing but a simple Bath bun of happiness , and even that is denied him . 
Would I ever find my Bath bun ? I disconsolately asked myself . 
I had been seeking it now for some little time , and seemed no nearer than when I set out . 
I had seen a good many Bath buns on my pilgrimage , it is true . 
Some I have not had space to confide to the reader but somehow or other they had not seemed the unmistakably predestined for which I was seeking . 
The road I was tramping at the moment was somewhat desolate . 
It ran up from a small market town through a dreary undulating moorland , forking off here and there to unknown villages of which the horizon gave no hint . 
Suddenly I became aware of the fluttering of a grey dress a little ahead of me . 
Unconsciously I had been overtaking a tall young woman walking in the same direction as myself , with a fine athletic carriage of her figure and a noble movement of her limbs . 
She walked manfully , and as I neared her I could hear the sturdy ring of her well shod feet upon the road . 
There was an air of expectancy about her walk , as though she looked to be met presently by some one due from the opposite direction . 
It was curious that I had not noticed her before , for she must have been in sight for some time . 
This surmise was confirmed , as presently , over the brow of a distant undulation in the road , I descried a farmer's gig driven by another young woman . 
The gig immediately hoisted a handkerchief so did my pedestrian . 
At this moment I was within a yard or two of overtaking her . 
And it was then the strange thing happened . 
Distance had lent no enchantment which nearness did not a hundred times repay . 
The immediate impression of strength and distinction which the first glimpse of her had made upon me was more and more verified as I drew closer to her . 
This glowing description , however , must be lowered or heightened in tone by the association of these characteristics with an undefinable simplicity of mien , a certain slight rusticity of effect . 
The town spoke in her well cut gown and a few simple adornments , but the dryad still moved inside . 
I suppose most men , even in old age , feel a certain anxiety , conscious or not , as they overtake a woman whose back view is in the least attractive . 
I cannot describe her features , for somehow features always mean little to me . 
They were certainly beautifully moulded , and her skin was of a lovely pale olive , but the life of her face was in her great violet eyes and her wonderful mouth . 
Thus suddenly to look into her face was like unexpectedly to come upon moon and stars reflected in some lonely pool . 
I'll tell you more about that look presently ! Meanwhile the gig approached , and the two girls exchanged affectionate greetings . 
Tom hasn't come with you , then ? said the other girl , who was evidently her sister , and who was considerably more rustic in style and accent . 
She said it with a curious mixture of anxiety and relief . 
No , answered the other simply , and I thought I noticed a slight darkening of her face . 
Tom was evidently her husband . 
And yet she was being carried away further and further every moment , while I gazed after her , aimlessly standing in the middle of the road . 
In fact , he presently dared to raise his voice again . 
Won't I ? you fool ! I exclaimed , savagely smiting reason on the cheek , as I sprang up wildly to wave mine but the road was already blank . 
At this a sort of panic possessed me , and like a boy I raced down the road after her . 
To lose her like this , at the very moment that she had been revealed to me . 
It was more than I could bear . 
Past the dreary lake , through the little pine wood I ran , and then I was brought to a halt , panting , by cross roads and a finger post . 
An involuntary memory of Nicolete sang to me as I read the quaint names of the villages to one of which the Vision was certainly wending . 
Yes ! I was bound on one more journey to the moon , but alas ! there was no heavenly being by my side to point the way . 
Instead I desperately resorted to the time honoured expedient of setting up a stick and going in the direction of its fall . 
Like most ancient guide posts , it led me quite wrong , down into a pig's trough of a hamlet whither I felt sure she couldn't have been bound . 
For of all the fancies that had obsessed my moonstruck brain , this was surely the maddest . 
For I had one other reason than my own infatuation , or thought I had . 
, but was indeed the flaming up of an elemental affinity , profounder than sex , deeper than reason , and ages older than speech . 
But it was a fancy , for all that ? Yes , one of those fancies that are fancies on earth , but facts in heaven . 
Perhaps you don't believe in them . 
Well , I'm afraid that cannot be helped . 
Had you heard it from aboard the Argo , you would have declared it to be the sirens singing , and it would have been found necessary to lash you to the mast . 
But there were no masts to lash you to in Yellowsands and of the sirens it is not yet time to speak . 
Yellowsands , therefore , was carried on much like a club , to which you had only to be the right sort of person to belong . 
It was here I found myself sitting at sunset , alone , but so completely under the spell of the place that I needed no companion . 
The place itself was companion enough . 
The electric fairy lamps had popped alight and as the sun sank lower , Yellowsands seemed like a glowing crown of light floating upon the water . 
Presently , close by , the notes of a guitar came like little gold butterflies out of the twilight , and then a woman's voice rose like a silver bird on the air . 
It was a gay wooing measure to which she sang . 
I listened with ears and heart . 
All ye , it went , All ye who seek for pleasure , Here find it without measure No one to say A body nay , And naught but love and leisure . 
All ye who seek forgetting , Leave frowns and fears and fretting , Here by the sea Are fair and free To give you peace and petting . 
All ye whose hearts are breaking For somebody forsaking , We'll count you dear , And heal you here , And send you home love making . 
You haven't heard our sirens sing before ? he said , turning to me with a pleasant smile , and thus we fell into talk of the place and its pleasures . 
There's one feature of the place I might introduce you to if you care for a stroll , he said presently . 
Have you heard of The Twelve Golden Haired Bar maids ? I hadn't , but the fantastic name struck my fancy . 
It was a whim of the management , he said . 
So , of course , we went . 
CHAPTER VIII THE TWELVE GOLDEN HAIRED BAR MAIDS . 
Now it was not without some boyish nervousness that I followed my newly made friend , for I confess that I have ever been a poor hand at talking to bar maids . 
Alas for me , I possessed neither gift , training , nor courage . 
Courage I lacked most of all . 
It was in vain that I said to myself that it was like swimming , all that was needed was confidence . 
That was the very thing I couldn't muster . 
Now , I've never been able to do this in the convincing grand manner of the British male and whatever I have said , the effect has been the same . 
I suppose I didn't talk about them in the right way . 
, towering in throats of fluted alabaster , and flowering in coiffures of imperial gold . 
Nor was their temple less magnificent . 
Men had gone to prison and to death that this temple of Whiskey and Soda might be fair . 
Strange , in truth , are the ministrations to which Beauty is called . 
As there were at least a score of worshippers round each Circe , my nervousness became unimportant , and therefore passed . 
Finally , they settled upon a Circe less besieged of the hoarse and grunting mob . 
She was conspicuously less in height , her hair was rather bright red than golden , and her face had more meanings than the faces of her fellows . 
Her hours were long and late , but she had two half days free in the week , and for these of course I engaged myself . 
A rather slight dark haired young man was entering the bar , with a very stylish pretty woman at his side . 
As they sat down and claimed the waiter , some distance away , Rosalind whispered , That's my husband ! Oh ! I said but that's no reason for your fainting . 
Take a drop of brandy . 
But woman will never take the most obvious restorative , and Rosalind presently recovered without the brandy . 
She looked covertly at her husband , with tragic eyes . 
He's much younger than I imagined him , I said , reserving for myself the satisfaction which this discovery had for me . 
Indeed the experiment appeared to be working most successfully with him nor , looking at his companion , could I wonder . 
She was a sprightly young woman , very smart and merry and decorously voluptuous , and of that fascinating prettiness that wins the hearts of boys and storms the footlights . 
One of her characteristics soothed the heart of Rosalind . 
She had splendid red hair , almost as good as her own . 
He's been faithful to my hair , at all events , she said , trying to be nonchalant . 
And the eyes are not unlike , I added , meaning well . 
I'm sorry you think so , said Rosalind , evidently piqued . 
Well , never mind , I tried to make peace , she hasn't your hands , I knew that women cared more about their hands than their faces . 
How do you know ? she retorted you cannot see through her gloves . 
Would any gloves disguise your hands ? I persisted . 
They would shine through the mittens of an Esquimau . 
As they passed out , one of Rosalind's fellow bar maids turned to her and said , You know who that was ? Who ? said Rosalind , startled . 
The violet eyes and the heavy chestnut hair rose up in moralising vision . 
Yes ! God knows , they were safe in my heart , but petticoats were another matter . 
The name seems familiar to you , said Rosalind , a little surprised and a little eagerly do you know the lady ? Slightly , I prevaricated . 
I left the twelfth Golden Haired Bar maid not too late to stalk her husband and her under study to their hotel , where they evidently proposed to dine . 
There was , therefore , nothing left for me but to dine also . 
So I dined and when the courses of my dining were ended , I found myself in a mellow twilight at the Cafe du Ciel . 
And it was about the hour of the sirens' singing . 
Presently the little golden butterflies flitted once more through the twilight , and again the woman's voice rose like a silver bird on the air . 
As I have a partiality for her songs , I transcribe this Hymn of the Daughters of Aphrodite , which you must try to imagine transfigured by her voice and the sunset . 
I regret that I cannot gratify the reader with a report of their conversation , for the excuse I had for listening was one that is not transferable . 
A woman's happiness was at stake . 
No other consideration could have persuaded me to means so mean save an end so noble . 
I didn't even tell Rosalind all I heard . 
Mercifully for her , the candour of fools is not among my superstitions . 
Orlando , I could hear , wished to make more extended arrangements , and references to that well known rendezvous , Eternity , fell on my ears from time to time . 
Evidently Sylvia had no very saving belief in Eternity , for I heard her say that they might see how they got on in Paris for a start . 
Then it would be time enough to talk of Eternity . 
This and other remarks of Sylvia's considerably predisposed me towards her . 
Having concluded their arrangements for the heaven of the morrow , they rose to take a stroll along the boulevards . 
As they did so , I touched Orlando's shoulder and begged his attention for a moment . 
As I said this , I flashed his wife's ring in the light so obviously that he was compelled to notice it . 
Wherever did you get that ? he gasped , no little surprised and agitated . 
From your wife , I answered , rapidly moving away . 
Be sure to be here at eleven . 
It did my heart good to see how happy this artistic adaptation of the truth made her and I must say that she never had a wiser friend . 
When eleven came , I was back in my seat at the Cafe du Ciel . 
Orlando too was excitedly punctual . 
Well , what is it ? he hurried out , almost before he had sat down . 
What will you do me the honour of drinking ? I asked calmly . 
When the drinks had come , I remarked to him quietly , but not without significance The meaning of this ring is that your wife is here , and very wretched . 
By an accident I have been privileged with her friendship and I may say , to save time , that she has told me the whole story . 
I am well and gratefully aware that in this interview with Orlando my advantages were many and fortunate . 
For example , had he been bigger and older , or had he not been a gentleman , my task had been considerably more arduous , not to say dangerous . 
The unexpectedness of my attack had , I realised , given me the whip hand . 
Then presently he said very quietly , I love my wife all the same . 
As a famous friend of mine is fond of saying , lookers on see most of the game . 
Then I rapidly told him the history of my meeting with his wife , and depicted , in harrowing pigments of phrase , the distress of her mind . 
I love my wife all the same , he repeated , as I finished and , he added , I love Sylvia too . 
But not quite in the same way ? I suggested . 
I love Sylvia very tenderly , he said . 
Yes , I know I don't think you could do anything else . 
No man worth his salt could be anything but tender to a dainty little woman like that . 
She still loves me , then , he said pitifully she hasn't fallen in love with you . 
No fear , I answered no such luck for me . 
If she had , I'm afraid I should hardly have been talking to you as I am at this moment . 
If a woman like Rosalind , as I call her , gave me her love , it would take more than a husband to rob me of it , I can tell you . 
Yes , he repeated , on my soul , I love her . 
Well , you should have done , I said that's just the whole trouble . 
Wild oats will get sown some time , and one of the arts of life is to sow them at the right time , the younger the better . 
Think candidly before you answer me . 
I believe you are right , he replied , after a long pause . 
One of them is that the man who does not sow his wild oats before marriage will sow them afterwards , with a whirlwind for the reaping . 
Orlando looked up at me , haggard with confession . 
You know the old story of the ring given to Venus ? Well , it is the ruin of no few men to meet Venus for the first time on their marriage night . 
Their very chastity , paradoxical as it may seem , is their destruction . 
No one can appreciate the peace , the holy satisfaction of monogamy till he has passed through the wasting distractions , the unrest of polygamy . 
If you have read Swedenborg , you will remember his denunciation of the lust of variety . 
Now , that is a lust every young man feels , but it is one to be satisfied before marriage . 
Sylvia Joy has been such a variant for you and I'm afraid you're going to have some little trouble to get her off your nerves . 
Tell me frankly , I said , have you had your fill of Aphrodite ? It is no use your going back to your wife till you have had that . 
I'm not quite a beast , he retorted . 
After all , it was an experiment we both agreed to try . 
Certainly , I answered , and I hope it may have the result of persuading you of the unwisdom of experimenting with happiness . 
Well , I continued , enough of the abstract let us have another drink , and tell me what you propose to do . 
Poor Sylvia ! sighed Orlando . 
Shall I tell you about Sylvia ? I said . 
On second thoughts , I won't . 
It is strange , then , that she never recognised you just now , he retorted , with forlorn alertness . 
How young you are ! It is rather too bad of a woman of Sylvia's experience . 
And I've bought our passages for to morrow . 
I cannot let her go without some sort of good bye . 
Give the tickets to me . 
I can make use of them . 
How much are they ? Let's see . 
The calculation made and the money passed across , I said abruptly , Now supposing we go and see your wife . 
You have saved my life , he said hoarsely , pressing my hand as we rose . 
I don't know about that , I said inwardly but I do hope I have saved your wife . 
As I thought of that , a fear occurred to me . 
Look here , I said , as we strolled towards the Twelve Golden Haired , I hope you have no silly notions about confession , about telling the literal truth and so on . 
Because I want you to promise me that you will lie stoutly to your wife about Sylvia Joy . 
You must swear the whole thing has been platonic . 
It's the only chance for your happiness . 
Promise me to lie stoutly on this point . 
It is , I repeat , the only chance for your future happiness . 
As has been wisely said , a lie in time saves nine and such a lie as I advise is but one of the higher forms of truth . 
Such lying , indeed , is the art of telling the truth . 
The truth is that you love her body , soul , and spirit any accidental matter which should tend to make her doubt that would be the only real lie . 
Promise me , won't you ? Yes , I will lie , said Orlando . 
Well , there she is , I said and God bless you both . 
To conclude the history of Orlando and his Rosalind , I may say that I saw them off from Yellowsands by the early morning coach . 
They are , at the time of my writing , quite old friends of mine , and both have an excessive opinion of my wisdom and good nature . 
As the coach left long before pretty young actresses even dreamed of getting up , I had to control my impatient desire to call on Mademoiselle Sylvia Joy till it was fully noon . 
And even then she was not to be seen . 
I tried again in the afternoon with better success . 
Rain had been falling in the night with her too , I surmised , but it had failed to dim her gay eyes , and had left her complexion unimpaired . 
Of course her little affair with Orlando had never been very serious on her side . 
Her only approach to anger was on the subject of his deceiving her about his wife . 
Little Sylvia Joy had no very long string of principles but one generous principle she did hold by , never , if she knew it , to rob another woman of her husband . 
And that did make her cross with Orlando . 
He had not played the game fair . 
We took to each other instinctively , even on our first rather difficult interview , and very gently and imperceptibly I bid for the vacant place in her heart . 
That night we dined together . 
The next day we lunched and dined together . 
The next day we breakfasted , lunched , and dined together . 
And on the next I determined to venture on the confession which , as you may imagine , it had needed no little artistic control not to make on our first meeting . 
It was sheer delight to sit opposite her at dinner , and quietly watch her without a word . 
Shall I confess that I had an exceedingly boyish vanity in thus being granted her friendship ? It is almost too boyish to confess at my time of life . 
This , no doubt , will seem pathetically naive to most modern young men , who in this respect begin where I leave off . 
An actress ! Great heavens ! an actress is the first step to a knowledge of life . 
Besides , actresses off the stage are either brainless or soulful , and the choice of evils is a delicate one . 
You are very beautiful to night , I said , in one of the meditative pauses between the courses . 
You laid such a marked emphasis on to night . 
Nay , I returned , for day and night are both alike to thee . 
I think you would even be beautiful well , I cannot imagine any moment or station of life you would not beautify . 
I must get you to write that down , and then I'll have it framed . 
It would cheer me of a morning when I curl my hair , laughed Sylvia . 
But you are beautiful , I continued , becoming quite impassioned . 
Yes , and as good as I'm beautiful . 
And she was too , though perhaps the beauty occasionally predominated . 
What is that sly smile about ? she asked . 
Everything a woman wears or touches immediately incarnates something of herself . 
A handkerchief , a glove , a flower , with a breath she endues them with immortal souls . 
What is that sly smile about ? she repeated presently . 
I only chanced to think of an absurd little fairy story I read the other day , I said , which is quite irrelevant at the moment . 
You know the idle way things come and go through one's head . 
I don't believe you , she replied , but tell me the story . 
Certainly , I said , for I wasn't likely to get a better opportunity . 
There's nothing much in it it's merely a variation of Cinderella's slipper . 
Presently he observed , pegged on the line , strangely incongruous among the other homespun garments , a wonderful petticoat , so exquisite in material and design that it aroused his curiosity . 
At the same moment he noticed a pair of stockings , round the tops of which one of the daintiest artists in the land had wrought an exquisite little frieze . 
The prince was learned in every form of art , and had not failed to study this among other forms of decoration . 
And then the prince went forth seeking There's not much point in it , interrupted Sylvia . 
No , I said , I'm afraid I've stupidly missed the point . 
Why , what was it ? The name upon the petticoat ! Why , what name was it ? she asked , somewhat mystified . 
The inscription upon the petticoat was , to be quite accurate , Sylvia Joy , No. . 
Whatever are you talking about ? she said with quite a stormy blush . 
I'm afraid you've had more than your share of the champagne . 
As I finished , I slipped out of my pocket a dainty little parcel softly folded in white tissue paper . 
Very softly I placed it on the table . 
When you wake up , the dream will say , you will find a rose or an oak leaf or an eagle's feather , or whatever it may be , on your pillow . 
By this token you will know that the fairy tale I have been telling you is true , and to morrow , if you will , you shall see your autograph petticoat . 
Of course , I remember , she said frankly , and with a shade of sadness passing over her face . 
I was spending a holiday with Jack Wentworth , why , it must be nearly two years ago . 
I'm so sorry , I said . 
Of course I didn't know . 
Let's come for a little stroll . 
There seems to be a lovely moon . 
Of course you didn't , she said , patting my cheek with a kind little hand . 
Yes , do let us go for a stroll . 
CHAPTER XI THE HOUR FOR WHICH THE YEARS DID SIGH This unexpected awakening of an old tenderness naturally prevented my speaking any more of my mind to Sylvia that evening . 
No doubt the reader may be a little astonished to hear that I had decided to offer her marriage , not taking my serious view of a fanciful vow . 
Many historic vows had met with sadly less lucky fulfilment . 
Sylvia , I said , plagiarising a dream which will be found in Chapter IV . 
, Sylvia , I have sought you through the world and found you at last and with your gracious permission , having found you , I mean to stick to you . 
What do you mean , silly boy ? she said , as an irregularity in the road threw her soft weight the more fondly upon my arm . 
I mean , dear , that I want you to be my wife . 
Your wife ? Not for worlds ! no , forgive me , I didn't mean that . 
Here's a nice sentimental patch of moonlight . 
To have won Sylvia would have been to have lost her . 
My ideal had , as it were , held her breath till Sylvia answered now she breathed again . 
At all events , we can go on being chums , can't we ? I said . 
For answer Sylvia hummed the first verse of that famous song writ by Kit Marlowe . 
Yes ! she said presently . 
I will sing for you , dance for you , and perhaps flirt with you but marry you no ! it's best not , for both of us . 
Well , then , I said , dance for me ! You owe me some amends for an aching heart . 
As I said this , the path suddenly broadened into a little circular glade into which the moonlight poured in a silver flood . 
In the centre of the space was a boulder some three or four feet high , and with a flat slab like surface of some six feet or so . 
I declare I will , said Sylvia , giving me an impulsive kiss , and springing on to the stone why , here is a ready made stage . 
And there , I said , are the nightingale and the nightjar for orchestra . 
And there is the moon , said she , for lime light man . 
Yes , I said and here is a handful of glow worms for the footlights . 
It was over such dancing , I said , that John the Baptist lost his head . 
Give me a kiss , she said , nestling exhausted in my arms . 
I always want some one to kiss when I have danced with my soul as well as my body . 
I sip it with a delicious thrill of degeneration , as though I were Eve tasting the apple for the first time , for such a power hath white simplicity . 
Sin is for the innocent , a truth which sinners will be the first to regret . 
It was so , I said to myself , Alfred de Musset used to sit and sip his absinthe before a fascinated world . 
It is a privilege for the world to look on greatness at any moment , even when it is drinking . 
So I sat , and privileged the world . 
It will readily be surmised from this exordium that incredible as it may seem in a man of thirty this was my first visit to Paris . 
You may remember that I had bought Orlando's tickets , and it had occurred to Sylvia and me to use them . 
These were the grisette of fiction and the American girl of fact . 
Pending these investigations , I meditated on the great city in the midst of which I sat . 
France is the brain of the world , as England is its heart , and Russia its fist . 
Strange is the power , strange are the freaks and revenges , of association , particularly perhaps of literary association . 
Greece and Rome are more real in print than ever they were in marble . 
The real truth about a country will never be known till every representative type and condition in it have found their inspired literary mouthpiece . 
A quaint example of association occurs to me from the experience of a friend of mine , rich enough to lend to the poor . 
Similarly with absinthe , grisettes , the Latin Quarter , and so on . 
So rambled my after dinner reflections as I sat that evening smoking and sipping , sipping and smoking , at the Cafe de la Paix . 
Presently in my dream I became aware of English voices near me , one of which seemed familiar , and which I couldn't help overhearing . 
I permitted you to go once , as a concession , to the Cafe d'Harcourt but once is enough . 
Surely it cannot matter for once . 
It isn't as if I were there constantly . 
No ! said the husband , with the absurd pomposity of his tribe . 
Mrs. will , of course , act as she pleases but I cannot allow you to do it , Dora . 
At last the little wife showed some spirit . 
Don't talk to me like that , Will , she said . 
I shall go if I please . 
Surely I am my own property . 
Not at all ! at once flashed out the husband , wounded in that most vital part of him , his sense of property . 
And Bohemian he is but Bohemians are seldom Bohemians for any one save themselves . 
They are terrible sticklers for convention and even etiquette in other people . 
We recognised each other with a laugh , and presently were at it , hammer and tongs . 
I may say that we were all fairly intimate friends , and thus had the advantage of entire liberty of speech . 
I looked daggers at the husband he looked daggers at me , and occasionally looking at his wife , gave her a glance which was like the opening of Bluebeard's closet . 
You could see the poor murdered bodies dangling within the shadowy cupboard of his eye . 
Of course we got no further . 
Additional opposition but further enraged him . 
Nay ! you have a much longer genealogy . 
Curiously enough , The Old Male , as he is now affectionately called , became from this moment quite a bosom friend . 
Nothing would satisfy us but that we should all lodge at the same pension together , and there many a day we fought our battles over again . 
But that poor little wife never , to my knowledge , went to the Cafe d'Harcourt again . 
She seemed equally wishful to be studied , and we got on amazingly from the first moment of our acquaintance . 
By the middle of dinner we were pressing each other's feet under the table , and when coffee and cigarettes had come , we were affianced lovers . 
There was nothing she wouldn't do for me . 
Nothing is more absurd and unjust than those crude labels of national character which label one country virtuous and another vicious , one musical and another literary . 
Thus France has an unjust reputation for vice , and England an equally unjust reputation for virtue . 
I had always , I confess , been brought up to think of Paris as a sort of Sodom and Gomorrah in one . 
Well , it may sound an odd thing to say , but what impressed me most of all was the absolute innocence of the place . 
I mean this quite seriously . 
For surely one important condition of innocence is unconsciousness of doing wrong . 
The poor despised Parisian may be a very wicked and depraved person , but certainly he goes about with an absolute unconsciousness of it upon his gay and kindly countenance . 
The places to which you , as a smug Briton , may or may not take a lady ! The scale of wickedness allowed to the waxwork British lady is most charmingly graduated . 
If you doubt it , dare to pay attention to one of these young ladies , and you will probably have to fight a duel for it . 
In fact , these romantic relations are much more careful of honour than conventional ones for love , and not merely law , keeps guard . 
For what did I see ? Simply pairs and groups of young men and women chattering amiably in front of their bocks or their Americains . 
Here and there a student would have his arm round a waist every one else envied him . 
One student was prettily trying a pair of new gloves upon his little woman's hand . 
Here and there blithe songs would spring up , from sheer gladness of heart and never was such a buzz of happy young people , not even at a Sunday school treat . 
To me it seemed absolutely Arcadian , and I thought of Daphnis and Chloe and the early world . 
Nothing indecorous or gross all perfectly pretty and seemly . 
Well , said William , how goes the love affair ? I flushed somewhat indignantly at his manner with sanctities . 
I see ! he said , I see ! You are already corded and labelled , and will be shipped over by the next mail , To Miss Semiramis Wilcox , th St . 
, Philadelphia , U. S. A. Man with care . 
Well , I did think you'd got an eye in your head . 
Look here , don't be a fool ! I suppose she said you were the first and last . 
The last you certainly were . 
There are limits even to the speed of American girls but the first , my boy ! You are more like the twelfth , to my ocular knowledge . 
Here comes Dubois the poet . 
He can tell you something about Miss Semiramis . 
Eh ! Dubois , you know Miss Semiramis Wilcox , don't you ? The Frenchman smiled and shrugged . 
Un peu , he said . 
Don't be an ass and get angry , William continued it's all for your own good . 
The little Semiramis has been seducing my susceptible friend here . 
You dined with us one evening , and you thus met for the first time . 
You sat together at table . 
What happened with the fish ? She swore I was the most beautiful man she had ever seen , and I am not beautiful , as you perceive . 
If not beautiful , the poet was certainly true . 
What happened at the entree ? Oh , long before that we were pressing our feet under the table . 
And the coffee Mon Dieu ! we were Tristram and Yseult , we were all the great lovers in the Pantheon of love . 
And what then ? Oh , we went to the Cafe d'Harcourt mon ami . 
Did she wear a veil ? I asked . 
And did she say , Yes , but the veil can be raised ? She did , mon pauvre ami , said the poet . 
And did you raise it ? I did , said the poet . 
And so did I , I answered . 
We had appointed a secret meeting in the salon of the pension that afternoon . 
When we did meet , I was brutally cold . 
Perhaps in time I would grow to believe in her love , etc . 
The heart broken abandonment with which she said this was a sore trial to me but though love may be deceived , vanity is ever vigilant , and vanity saved me . 
Dora , Dora like , had believed in her all along , not having enjoyed William's opportunities of studying her , and she reproached me with being rather hard hearted . 
It was Semiramis she had come to say good bye . 
Was it in nature not to be touched ? Good bye , she said , as we stood a moment alone in the hall . 
I shall always think of you you shall not be to me as a ship that has passed in the night , though to me you have behaved very like an iceberg . 
And so I ceased to repine for the wound I had made in the heart of Semiramis Wilcox . 
Of another whom I met and loved in that brief month in Paris , I cherish tenderer memories . 
I don't think I ever met a more conscientious little woman than little Pauline Deschapelles . 
There was but one drawback to our intercourse . 
She didn't know a word of English , and I couldn't speak a word of French . 
So we had to make shift to love without either language . 
It WAS French ! I know . 
Among the bric a brac of my heart I still cherish some of those little slips of paper with which we made international love question and answer . 
Vous allez m'oublier , et ne plus penser a moi ni me voir . 
Les hommes egoistes menteurs , pas dire la verite . 
so ran the questions , considerably devoid of auxiliary verbs and such details of construction . 
Je serais jamais t'oublier , ran the frightful answers ! Dear Pauline ! Shall I ever see her again ? She was but twenty six . 
CHAPTER XIV END OF BOOK THREE So ended my pilgrimage . 
I had wandered far , had loved many , but I came back to London without the Golden Girl . 
I had begun my pilgrimage with a vision , and it was with a vision that I ended it . 
It was autumn in my old garden , damp and forsaken , and the mulberry tree was hung with little yellow shields . 
The very chairs begged mutely to be sat upon , the chill white beds to be slept in . 
Yes , the very furniture seemed even lonelier than myself . 
So I took heed of their dumb appeal . 
Yes , let us go , it is very lonely we shall die if we stay here all so lonely together it is time , let us go . 
Well , well , good bye , tears are foolish things . 
They will not bring Margaret back . 
Good bye , old garden , good bye , I shall never see you again , good bye . 
BOOK IV THE POSTSCRIPT TO A PILGRIMAGE CHAPTER I SIX YEARS AFTER This book is like a woman's letter . 
The most important part of it is the postscript Six years lie between the end of the last chapter and the beginning of this . 
I had long come to look back upon my pilgrimage as a sort of Indian summer youth , being , as the reader can reckon for himself , just on thirty seven . 
Perhaps when I am dead the society will see the criminal selfishness of reserving for itself what was meant for mankind . 
Meanwhile , however , it is fast locked and buried deep in the archives of the club . 
I have two marriages to record in the interval one that of a young lady whom I must still think of as Nicolete' to Sir Marmaduke Pettigrew , Bart . 
, of Dultowers Hall , and the other the well known marriage of Sylvia Joy . 
Sylvia Joy married after all her fine protestations ! Yes ! but I'm sure you will forgive her , for she was married to a lord . 
When one is twenty and romantic one would scorn a woman who would jilt us for wealth and position at thirty , one would scorn any woman who didn't . 
Yet , at the same time , I want to write of them , for they are beautiful and solemn , and good food for the heart . 
For another hour death and pleasure would dance there beneath the electric lights . 
It was something about one of these waiting figures , some movement , some chance posture , that presently surprised my attention and awakened a sudden sense of half recognition . 
She stood well in the shadow , seeming rather to shrink from than to court attention . 
As I walked close by her and looked keenly into her face , she cast down her eyes and half turned away . 
It is she , said my heart thank God , it is she ! So it was that I went up to that tall , shy figure . 
When I had persuaded her to drink a little wine , she grew more animated and spots of suspicious colour came into her cheeks . 
Yes , it was she ! For the moment my mind had room for no other thought . 
I cared not to conjecture by what devious ways God had brought her to my side . 
I cared not what mire her feet had trodden . 
She had carried her face pure as a lily through all the foul and sooty air . 
There was a pure heart in her voice . 
Sin is of the soul , and this soul had not sinned ! Let him that is without sin amongst you cast the first stone . 
Why , she said , how do you know the colour of my hair ? We have never met before . 
Yes , we have , I said , and that was why I spoke to you to night . 
I'll tell you where it was another time . 
And as I told her , she sobbed with her head against my knees and her great hair filling my lap with gold . 
In broken words she drew for me the other side of the picture of that long past summer day . 
They had been brought up from girls by an old grandmother , with whom the sister was living at the time of my seeing them . 
Yes , Tom was her husband . 
For hers was not a sensual , pleasure loving nature . 
Once I ventured gently to chaff her about this religiosity of hers . 
It was only the process that was obscure . 
The result was gold , whatever the dark process might be . 
As I did so I had taken one of the sumptuous strands of her hair into my hand and kissed it too . 
Promise me to let this come back to its own beautiful colour , I had said , as I nodded to a little phial labelled Peroxide of Hydrogen on her mantelshelf . 
Would you like to ? she had said . 
Yes , do it for me . 
One day some months after I cut from her dear head one long thick lock , one half of which was gold and the other half chestnut . 
All right , dear , she had said , but something tells me that when they are all brown again our happiness will be at an end . 
About two years , perhaps a little more , she said , answering me quite seriously , as she gravely measured the shining tresses , half her body's length , with her eye . 
It lives for ever in a present made perfect by itself . 
Love can dream of no greater blessedness than itself , of no heaven but its own . 
God himself could have added no touch of happiness to our happy hearts that grave and sunny morning . 
No one that has loved will dream even death too terrible a price to pay for the revelation of love . 
For that revelation once made can never be recalled . 
As a little sprig of lavender will perfume a queen's wardrobe , so will a short year of love keep sweet a long life . 
And love's best gifts death can never take away . 
Nay , indeed , death does not so much rob as enrich the gifts of love . 
Husband , whispered Elizabeth , as we looked at each other for the last time , let her be your little golden girl . 
And then a strange sweetness stole over her face , and the dream of Elizabeth's life was ended . 
As I write I hear in the still house the running of little feet , a fairy patter sweet and terrible to the heart . 
Little feet , little feet perhaps if I follow you I shall find again our mother that is lost . 
Perhaps Elizabeth left you with me that I should not miss the way . 
