This book prepared by Brandi Weed brandi primenet . 
com THE GREAT GOD PAN by ARTHUR MACHEN I THE EXPERIMENT I am glad you came , Clarke very glad indeed . 
I was not sure you could spare the time . 
I was able to make arrangements for a few days things are not very lively just now . 
But have you no misgivings , Raymond ? Is it absolutely safe ? The two men were slowly pacing the terrace in front of Dr . 
Raymond turned sharply to his friend . 
Safe ? Of course it is . 
In itself the operation is a perfectly simple one any surgeon could do it . 
And there is no danger at any other stage ? None absolutely no physical danger whatsoever , I give you my word . 
You are always timid , Clarke , always but you know my history . 
I have devoted myself to transcendental medicine for the last twenty years . 
I have heard myself called quack and charlatan and impostor , but all the while I knew I was on the right path . 
Five years ago I reached the goal , and since then every day has been a preparation for what we shall do tonight . 
I should like to believe it is all true . 
Clarke knit his brows , and looked doubtfully at Dr . 
Are you perfectly sure , Raymond , that your theory is not a phantasmagoria a splendid vision , certainly , but a mere vision after all ? Dr . 
Raymond stopped in his walk and turned sharply . 
He was a middle aged man , gaunt and thin , of a pale yellow complexion , but as he answered Clarke and faced him , there was a flush on his cheek . 
Look about you , Clarke . 
You may think this all strange nonsense it may be strange , but it is true , and the ancients knew what lifting the veil means . 
They called it seeing the god Pan . 
Clarke shivered the white mist gathering over the river was chilly . 
It is wonderful indeed , he said . 
We are standing on the brink of a strange world , Raymond , if what you say is true . 
But I suppose you have read , casually , in out of the way corners of your paper , that immense strides have been made recently in the physiology of the brain . 
I saw a paragraph the other day about Digby's theory , and Browne Faber's discoveries . 
It will be enough if I say that five years ago I made the discovery that I alluded to when I said that ten years ago I reached the goal . 
since a Man first lifted up his eyes and beheld the sun , and the stars of heaven , and the quiet earth beneath . 
You will think this all high flown language , Clarke , but it is hard to be literal . 
And yet I do not know whether what I am hinting at cannot be set forth in plain and lonely terms . 
That group is , as it were , land to let , a mere waste place for fanciful theories . 
I am not in the position of Browne Faber and the specialists , I am perfectly instructed as to the possible functions of those nerve centers in the scheme of things . 
Yes , the knife is necessary but think what that knife will effect . 
It will level utterly the solid wall of sense , and probably , for the first time since man was made , a spirit will gaze on a spirit world . 
Not at all , not at all . 
Indeed , it is better as it is I am quite certain of that . 
Consider the matter well , Raymond . 
Something might go wrong you would be a miserable man for the rest of your days . 
No , I think not , even if the worst happened . 
Come , it's getting late we had better go in . 
Raymond led the way into the house , through the hall , and down a long dark passage . 
He took a key from his pocket and opened a heavy door , and motioned Clarke into his laboratory . 
Scarcely a foot of wall remained bare there were shelves all around laden with bottles and phials of all shapes and colours , and at one end stood a little Chippendale book case . 
You see that parchment Oswald Crollius ? He was one of the first to show me the way , though I don't think he ever found it himself . 
That is a strange saying of his 'In every grain of wheat there lies hidden the soul of a star . 
There was not much furniture in the laboratory . 
Clarke looked at it , and raised his eyebrows . 
Yes , that is the chair , said Raymond . 
We may as well place it in position . 
It looked comfortable enough , and Clarke passed his hand over the soft green velvet , as the doctor manipulated the levers . 
Now , Clarke , make yourself quite comfortable . 
I have a couple hours' work before me I was obliged to leave certain matters to the last . 
Raymond went to the stone slab , and Clarke watched him drearily as he bent over a row of phials and lit the flame under the crucible . 
I hope the smell doesn't annoy you , Clarke there's nothing unwholesome about it . 
It may make you a bit sleepy , that's all . 
Clarke heard the words quite distinctly , and knew that Raymond was speaking to him , but for the life of him he could not rouse himself from his lethargy . 
When Clarke woke up with a start he saw Raymond pouring a few drops of some oily fluid into a green phial , which he stoppered tightly . 
You have been dozing , he said the journey must have tired you out . 
I am going to fetch Mary I shall be back in ten minutes . 
Clarke lay back in his chair and wondered . 
It seemed as if he had but passed from one dream into another . 
He half expected to see the walls of the laboratory melt and disappear , and to awake in London , shuddering at his own sleeping fancies . 
But at last the door opened , and the doctor returned , and behind him came a girl of about seventeen , dressed all in white . 
She was so beautiful that Clarke did not wonder at what the doctor had written to him . 
She was blushing now over face and neck and arms , but Raymond seemed unmoved . 
Mary , he said , the time has come . 
Are you willing to trust yourself to me entirely ? Yes , dear . 
Do you hear that , Clarke ? You are my witness . 
Here is the chair , Mary . 
Just sit in it and lean back . 
Are you ready ? Yes , dear , quite ready . 
Give me a kiss before you begin . 
The doctor stooped and kissed her mouth , kindly enough . 
Now shut your eyes , he said . 
The girl closed her eyelids , as if she were tired , and longed for sleep , and Raymond placed the green phial to her nostrils . 
The bright light of the lamp fell full upon her , and Clarke watched changes fleeting over her face as the changes of the hills when the summer clouds float across the sun . 
And then she lay all white and still , and the doctor turned up one of her eyelids . 
Raymond pressed hard on one of the levers and the chair instantly sank back . 
Clarke saw him cutting away a circle , like a tonsure , from her hair , and the lamp was moved nearer . 
Raymond took a small glittering instrument from a little case , and Clarke turned away shudderingly . 
When he looked again the doctor was binding up the wound he had made . 
She will awake in five minutes . 
Raymond was still perfectly cool . 
There is nothing more to be done we can only wait . 
The minutes passed slowly they could hear a slow , heavy , ticking . 
There was an old clock in the passage . 
Clarke felt sick and faint his knees shook beneath him , he could hardly stand . 
Suddenly , as they watched , they heard a long drawn sigh , and suddenly did the colour that had vanished return to the girl's cheeks , and suddenly her eyes opened . 
The muscles of her face were hideously convulsed , she shook from head to foot the soul seemed struggling and shuddering within the house of flesh . 
It was a horrible sight , and Clarke rushed forward , as she fell shrieking to the floor . 
Three days later Raymond took Clarke to Mary's bedside . 
She was lying wide awake , rolling her head from side to side , and grinning vacantly . 
Yes , said the doctor , still quite cool , it is a great pity she is a hopeless idiot . 
However , it could not be helped and , after all , she has seen the Great God Pan . 
CLARKE'S MEMOIRS Mr. Clarke , the gentleman chosen by Dr . 
He paced two or three times up and down the room , and opened the bureau , stood still a moment , and sat down . 
He leant back , absorbed in one of those dreams to which he was subject , and at length drew out his book , and opened it at the last entry . 
Mr. Clarke began to read over the account for the tenth time , glancing now and then at the pencil notes he had made when it was told him by his friend . 
It was one of his humours to pride himself on a certain literary ability he thought well of his style , and took pains in arranging the circumstances in dramatic order . 
It is situated on rising ground , about six miles from the sea , and is sheltered by a large and picturesque forest . 
Some eleven years ago , Helen V. came to the village under rather peculiar circumstances . 
In fact , Mr. R. was given to understand that the girl be allowed to find her own occupations and to spend her time almost as she liked . 
In the winter , when the forest paths are impassable , she spent most of her time in her bedroom , where she slept alone , according to the instructions of her relative . 
He said he felt dreadfully frightened and ran away crying for his father . 
Joseph W. proceeded in the direction indicated by his son , and found Helen V. sitting on the grass in the middle of a glade or open space left by charcoal burners . 
The doctor was immediately summoned , and after some examination he pronounced the child to be suffering form a kind of fit , apparently produced by a sudden shock . 
The head is pronounced by the most experienced archaeologists of the district to be that of a faun or satyr . 
Phillips tells me that he has seen the head in question , and assures me that he has never received such a vivid presentment of intense evil . 
The second event with which this girl's name is connected took place about six years ago , and is of a still more extraordinary character . 
At the beginning of the summer of , Helen contracted a friendship of a peculiarly intimate character with Rachel M. , the daughter of a prosperous farmer in the neighbourhood . 
The parents of Rachel were therefore not averse from their daughter's friendship with the girl , and even encouraged the intimacy , though they now bitterly regret having done so . 
Rachel told her a wild story . 
She said Clarke closed the book with a snap , and turned his chair towards the fire . 
My God ! he had exclaimed , think , think what you are saying . 
There must be some explanation , some way out of the terror . 
Why , man , if such a case were possible , our earth would be a nightmare . 
III THE CITY OF RESURRECTIONS Herbert ! Good God ! Is it possible ? Yes , my name's Herbert . 
I think I know your face , too , but I don't remember your name . 
My memory is very queer . 
Don't you recollect Villiers of Wadham ? So it is , so it is . 
I beg your pardon , Villiers , I didn't think I was begging of an old college friend . 
My dear fellow , this haste is unnecessary . 
My rooms are close by , but we won't go there just yet . 
Take my arm , you don't seem very strong . 
Villiers prided himself as a practised explorer of such obscure mazes and byways of London life , and in this unprofitable pursuit he displayed an assiduity which was worthy of more serious employment . 
He looked around in some irritation , and with a sudden shock found himself confronted with the embodied proof of his somewhat stilted fancies . 
Villiers felt together with compassion all the relish of the amateur in mysteries , and congratulated himself on his leisurely speculations outside the restaurant . 
Here he repeated his question . 
How on earth has it happened , Herbert ? I always understood you would succeed to an excellent position in Dorsetshire . 
Did your father disinherit you ? Surely not ? No , Villiers I came into all the property at my poor father's death he died a year after I left Oxford . 
He was a very good father to me , and I mourned his death sincerely enough . 
But you know what young men are a few months later I came up to town and went a good deal into society . 
Of course I had excellent introductions , and I managed to enjoy myself very much in a harmless sort of way . 
It was in my second season that the tide turned . 
Of course you have heard of my marriage ? No , I never heard anything about it . 
Yes , I married , Villiers . 
I met a girl , a girl of the most wonderful and most strange beauty , at the house of some people whom I knew . 
The first time I saw her was at an evening party . 
I was standing by the door talking to a friend , when suddenly above the hum and babble of conversation I heard a voice which seemed to thrill to my heart . 
She was singing an Italian song . 
I was introduced to her that evening , and in three months I married Helen . 
Villiers , that woman , if I can call her woman , corrupted my soul . 
The night of the wedding I found myself sitting in her bedroom in the hotel , listening to her talk . 
In a year , Villiers , I was a ruined man , in body and soul in body and soul . 
But your property , Herbert ? You had land in Dorset . 
I sold it all the fields and woods , the dear old house everything . 
And the money ? She took it all from me . 
And then left you ? Yes she disappeared one night . 
I don't know where she went , but I am sure if I saw her again it would kill me . 
The rest of my story is of no interest sordid misery , that is all . 
You may think , Villiers , that I have exaggerated and talked for effect but I have not told you half . 
I could tell you certain things which would convince you , but you would never know a happy day again . 
You would pass the rest of your life , as I pass mine , a haunted man , a man who has seen hell . 
Villiers took the unfortunate man to his rooms , and gave him a meal . 
Herbert could eat little , and scarcely touched the glass of wine set before him . 
He sat moody and silent by the fire , and seemed relieved when Villiers sent him away with a small present of money . 
I don't think she had a name . 
No , no , not in that sense . 
Only human beings have names , Villiers I can't say anymore . 
Good bye yes , I will not fail to call if I see any way in which you can help me . 
The man went out into the bitter night , and Villiers returned to his fireside . 
His story needed no confirmation he himself was the embodied proof of it . 
Villiers mused curiously over the story he had heard , and wondered whether he had heard both the first and the last of it . 
No , he thought , certainly not the last , probably only the beginning . 
A case like this is like a nest of Chinese boxes you open one after the other and find a quainter workmanship in every box . 
Most likely poor Herbert is merely one of the outside boxes there are stranger ones to follow . 
Villiers could not take his mind away from Herbert and his story , which seemed to grow wilder as the night wore on . 
Charles Herbert ? Weren't you in town three years ago ? No then you have not heard of the Paul Street case ? It caused a good deal of sensation at the time . 
This individual was , as he said , 'going home , 'it did not appear whence or whither , and had occasion to pass through Paul Street between four and five a . 
Our gentleman thought his face looked peculiarly ghastly , and so set off at a run in search of the nearest policeman . 
Meanwhile , the original discoverer had come back with a medical man , and the next thing was to get into the area . 
The gate was open , so the whole quartet stumped down the steps . 
The doctor hardly needed a moment's examination he said the poor fellow had been dead for several hours , and it was then the case began to get interesting . 
The next curious point was that the medical men couldn't agree as to how he met his death . 
As for Mrs. Herbert , nobody seemed to know who or what she was , and , between ourselves , I fancy the divers after her history found themselves in rather strange waters . 
Of course they both denied knowing anything about the deceased , and in default of any evidence against them they were discharged . 
But some very odd things came out about them . 
They were pretty free with their comments , by all accounts , and from these it appeared that Number was in very bad odour in Paul Street . 
The detectives tried to trace down these rumours to some solid foundation of fact , but could not get hold of anything . 
An odd case , wasn't it ? But curiously enough , there's something more that I haven't told you . 
I happened to know one of the doctors who was consulted as to the cause of death , and some time after the inquest I met him , and asked him about it . 
The doctor was usually a cool customer enough , and a certain vehemence in his manner struck me , but I couldn't get anything more out of him . 
Do you happen to know anything of Herbert ? Well , replied Villiers , he was an old college friend of mine . 
You don't say so ? Have you ever seen his wife ? No , I haven't . 
I have lost sight of Herbert for many years . 
But I should like to have seen Mrs. Herbert people said extraordinary things about her . 
What sort of things ? Well , I hardly know how to tell you . 
Everyone who saw her at the police court said she was at once the most beautiful woman and the most repulsive they had ever set eyes on . 
I have spoken to a man who saw her , and I assure you he positively shuddered as he tried to describe the woman , but he couldn't tell why . 
She seems to have been a sort of enigma and I expect if that one dead man could have told tales , he would have told some uncommonly queer ones . 
want in such a very queer house as Number ? It's altogether a very odd case , isn't it ? It is indeed , Austin an extraordinary case . 
I didn't think , when I asked you about my old friend , I should strike on such strange metal . 
Well , I must be off good day . 
Villiers went away , thinking of his own conceit of the Chinese boxes here was quaint workmanship indeed . 
Mr. Villiers to see you sir . 
Dear me , Villiers , it is very kind of you to look me up I have not seen you for many months I should think nearly a year . 
Come in , come in . 
And how are you , Villiers ? Want any advice about investments ? No , thanks , I fancy everything I have in that way is pretty safe . 
No , Clarke , I have really come to consult you about a rather curious matter that has been brought under my notice of late . 
I am afraid you will think it all rather absurd when I tell my tale . 
I sometimes think so myself , and that's just what I made up my mind to come to you , as I know you're a practical man . 
Mr. Villiers was ignorant of the Memoirs to prove the Existence of the Devil . 
Well , Villiers , I shall be happy to give you my advice , to the best of my ability . 
What is the nature of the case ? It's an extraordinary thing altogether . 
Of course I looked round , and this beggar turned out to be what was left of an old friend of mine , a man named Herbert . 
I asked him how he had come to such a wretched pass , and he told me . 
We walked up and down one of those long and dark Soho streets , and there I listened to his story . 
He said he had married a beautiful girl , some years younger than himself , and , as he put it , she had corrupted him body and soul . 
There was something about the man that made me shiver . 
I don't know why , but it was there . 
I gave him a little money and sent him away , and I assure you that when he was gone I gasped for breath . 
His presence seemed to chill one's blood . 
Isn't this all just a little fanciful , Villiers ? I suppose the poor fellow had made an imprudent marriage , and , in plain English , gone to the bad . 
Well , listen to this . 
Villiers told Clarke the story he had heard from Austin . 
And what he saw , he most certainly saw in that house , which , somehow or other , had got a bad name in the neighbourhood . 
I had the curiosity to go and look at the place for myself . 
It's a saddening kind of street the houses are old enough to be mean and dreary , but not old enough to be quaint . 
As far as I could see most of them are let in lodgings , furnished and unfurnished , and almost every door has three bells to it . 
Here and there the ground floors have been made into shops of the commonest kind it's a dismal street in every way . 
I found Number was to let , and I went to the agent's and got the key . 
Mr. Villiers paused for a moment . 
But I didn't enjoy going over Number , Paul Street . 
I had hardly put my foot inside the passage when I noticed a queer , heavy feeling about the air of the house . 
Of course all empty houses are stuffy , and so forth , but this was something quite different I can't describe it to you , but it seemed to stop the breath . 
I couldn't define it to you , I only know I felt queer . 
It was one of the rooms on the first floor , though , that was the worst . 
I turned the whole pile over , and amongst them I found a curious drawing I will show it to you presently . 
But I couldn't stay in the room I felt it was overpowering me . 
I was thankful to come out , safe and sound , into the open air . 
People stared at me as I walked along the street , and one man said I was drunk . 
I was in bed for a week , suffering from what my doctor called nervous shock and exhaustion . 
One of those days I was reading the evening paper , and happened to notice a paragraph headed 'Starved to Death . 
It was the usual style of thing a model lodging house in Marlyebone , a door locked for several days , and a dead man in his chair when they broke in . 
'The deceased , 'said the paragraph , 'was known as Charles Herbert , and is believed to have been once a prosperous country gentleman . 
And that is the story , is it ? said Clarke musingly . 
Yes , that is the story . 
Well , really , Villiers , I scarcely know what to say about it . 
The two men sat silent by the fireside Clarke secretly congratulating himself on having successfully kept up the character of advocate of the commonplace , and Villiers wrapped in his gloomy fancies . 
I think I will have a cigarette , he said at last , and put his hand in his pocket to feel for the cigarette case . 
Ah ! he said , starting slightly , I forgot I had something to show you . 
You remember my saying that I had found a rather curious sketch amongst the pile of old newspapers at the house in Paul Street ? Here it is . 
Villiers drew out a small thin parcel from his pocket . 
It was covered with brown paper , and secured with string , and the knots were troublesome . 
In spite of himself Clarke felt inquisitive he bent forward on his chair as Villiers painfully undid the string , and unfolded the outer covering . 
Inside was a second wrapping of tissue , and Villiers took it off and handed the small piece of paper to Clarke without a word . 
Mary rose up , and he looked into her eyes , and his heart grew cold within him . 
Who is this woman ? he said at last . 
His voice was dry and hoarse . 
That is the woman who Herbert married . 
Clarke looked again at the sketch it was not Mary after all . 
Phillip's words , the most vivid presentment of evil I have ever seen . 
He turned the paper over mechanically in his hand and glanced at the back . 
Good God ! Clarke , what is the matter ? You are as white as death . 
Villiers had started wildly from his chair , as Clarke fell back with a groan , and let the paper drop from his hands . 
I don't feel very well , Villiers , I am subject to these attacks . 
Pour me out a little wine thanks , that will do . 
I shall feel better in a few minutes . 
Villiers picked up the fallen sketch and turned it over as Clarke had done . 
You saw that ? he said . 
That's how I identified it as being a portrait of Herbert's wife , or I should say his widow . 
How do you feel now ? Better , thanks , it was only a passing faintness . 
I don't think I quite catch your meaning . 
What did you say enabled you to identify the picture ? This word 'Helen' was written on the back . 
Didn't I tell you her name was Helen ? Yes Helen Vaughan . 
Clarke groaned there could be no shadow of doubt . 
You must give me time to think it over I may be able to help you or I may not . 
Must you be going now ? Well , good night , Villiers , good night . 
Come and see me in the course of a week . 
You had seen him ? Where ? He begged of me in the street one night . 
He was in the most pitiable plight , but I recognized the man , and I got him to tell me his history , or at least the outline of it . 
In brief , it amounted to this he had been ruined by his wife . 
In what manner ? He would not tell me he would only say that she had destroyed him , body and soul . 
The man is dead now . 
And what has become of his wife ? Ah , that's what I should like to know , and I mean to find her sooner or later . 
I know a man named Clarke , a dry fellow , in fact a man of business , but shrewd enough . 
You understand my meaning not shrewd in the mere business sense of the word , but a man who really knows something about men and life . 
Well , I laid the case before him , and he was evidently impressed . 
He said it needed consideration , and asked me to come again in the course of a week . 
A few days later I received this extraordinary letter . 
Austin took the envelope , drew out the letter , and read it curiously . 
It ran as follows MY DEAR VILLIERS , I have thought over the matter on which you consulted me the other night , and my advice to you is this . 
Throw the portrait into the fire , blot out the story from your mind . 
Never give it another thought , Villiers , or you will be sorry . 
You will think , no doubt , that I am in possession of some secret information , and to a certain extent that is the case . 
But I only know a little I am like a traveller who has peered over an abyss , and has drawn back in terror . 
I have resolved , and nothing shall shake that resolve , to explore no whit farther , and if you value your happiness you will make the same determination . 
Come and see me by all means but we will talk on more cheerful topics than this . 
Austin folded the letter methodically , and returned it to Villiers . 
Villiers told his story as he had told it to Clarke , and Austin listened in silence . 
How very curious that you should experience such an unpleasant sensation in that room ! he said at length . 
I hardly gather that it was a mere matter of the imagination a feeling of repulsion , in short . 
No , it was more physical than mental . 
It was as if I were inhaling at every breath some deadly fume , which seemed to penetrate to every nerve and bone and sinew of my body . 
I felt racked from head to foot , my eyes began to grow dim it was like the entrance of death . 
Yes , yes , very strange certainly . 
You see , your friend confesses that there is some very black story connected with this woman . 
Did you notice any particular emotion in him when you were telling your tale ? Yes , I did . 
He became very faint , but he assured me that it was a mere passing attack to which he was subject . 
Did you believe him ? I did at the time , but I don't now . 
He heard what I had to say with a good deal of indifference , till I showed him the portrait . 
It was then that he was seized with the attack of which I spoke . 
He looked ghastly , I assure you . 
Then he must have seen the woman before . 
But there might be another explanation it might have been the name , and not the face , which was familiar to him . 
What do you think ? I couldn't say . 
To the best of my belief it was after turning the portrait in his hands that he nearly dropped from the chair . 
The name , you know , was written on the back . 
After all , it is impossible to come to any resolution in a case like this . 
The two men had , without noticing it , turned up Ashley Street , leading northward from Piccadilly . 
It looks cheerful , doesn't it ? he said . 
Yes , and the inside is still more cheery . 
One of the pleasantest houses of the season , so I have heard . 
I haven't been there myself , but I've met several men who have , and they tell me it's uncommonly jovial . 
Whose house is it ? A Mrs. Beaumont's . 
And who is she ? I couldn't tell you . 
I have heard she comes from South America , but after all , who she is is of little consequence . 
She is a very wealthy woman , there's no doubt of that , and some of the best people have taken her up . 
I hear she has some wonderful claret , really marvellous wine , which must have cost a fabulous sum . 
Lord Argentine was telling me about it he was there last Sunday evening . 
He assures me he has never tasted such a wine , and Argentine , as you know , is an expert . 
By the way , that reminds me , she must be an oddish sort of woman , this Mrs. Beaumont . 
Argentine asked her how old the wine was , and what do you think she said ? 'About a thousand years , I believe . 
Lord Argentine thought she was chaffing him , you know , but when he laughed she said she was speaking quite seriously and offered to show him the jar . 
Of course , he couldn't say anything more after that but it seems rather antiquated for a beverage , doesn't it ? Why , here we are at my rooms . 
Come in , won't you ? Thanks , I think I will . 
I haven't seen the curiosity shop for a while . 
Anything fresh lately ? said Villiers after a while . 
No I think not you saw those queer jugs , didn't you ? I thought so . 
I don't think I have come across anything for the last few weeks . 
Austin glanced around the room from cupboard to cupboard , from shelf to shelf , in search of some new oddity . 
His eyes fell at last on an odd chest , pleasantly and quaintly carved , which stood in a dark corner of the room . 
Ah , he said , I was forgetting , I have got something to show you . 
Austin unlocked the chest , drew out a thick quarto volume , laid it on the table , and resumed the cigar he had put down . 
Did you know Arthur Meyrick the painter , Villiers ? A little I met him two or three times at the house of a friend of mine . 
What has become of him ? I haven't heard his name mentioned for some time . 
You don't say so ! Quite young , wasn't he ? Yes only thirty when he died . 
What did he die of ? I don't know . 
He was an intimate friend of mine , and a thoroughly good fellow . 
He used to come here and talk to me for hours , and he was one of the best talkers I have met . 
He could even talk about painting , and that's more than can be said of most painters . 
I believe New York was to be his first port , but I never heard from him . 
And haven't you written for further particulars ? I have been thinking of doing so . 
You would advise me to write to the doctor ? Certainly . 
And what about the book ? It was sealed up when I got it . 
I don't think the doctor had seen it . 
It is something very rare ? Meyrick was a collector , perhaps ? No , I think not , hardly a collector . 
Now , what do you think of these Ainu jugs ? They are peculiar , but I like them . 
But aren't you going to show me poor Meyrick's legacy ? Yes , yes , to be sure . 
The fact is , it's rather a peculiar sort of thing , and I haven't shown it to any one . 
I wouldn't say anything about it if I were you . 
Villiers took the book , and opened it at haphazard . 
It isn't a printed volume , then ? he said . 
No. It is a collection of drawings in black and white by my poor friend Meyrick . 
On the third page was a design which made Villiers start and look up at Austin he was gazing abstractedly out of the window . 
Villiers whirled over the remaining pages he had seen enough , but the picture on the last leaf caught his eye , as he almost closed the book . 
Austin ! Well , what is it ? Do you know who that is ? It was a woman's face , alone on the white page . 
Know who it is ? No , of course not . 
Who is it ? It is Mrs. Herbert . 
Are you sure ? I am perfectly sure of it . 
Poor Meyrick ! He is one more chapter in her history . 
But what do you think of the designs ? They are frightful . 
Lock the book up again , Austin . 
If I were you I would burn it it must be a terrible companion even though it be in a chest . 
Yes , they are singular drawings . 
She will come back to London , Austin depend on it , she will come back , and we shall hear more about her then . 
I doubt it will be very pleasant news . 
VI THE SUICIDES Lord Argentine was a great favourite in London Society . 
The situation amused him immensely , and he resolved that riches should be as pleasant to him as poverty had always been . 
His sudden and tragical death therefore caused a wide and deep sensation . 
People could scarcely believe it , even though the newspaper was before their eyes , and the cry of Mysterious Death of a Nobleman came ringing up from the street . 
But there stood the brief paragraph Lord Argentine was found dead this morning by his valet under distressing circumstances . 
It is stated that there can be no doubt that his lordship committed suicide , though no motive can be assigned for the act . 
The deceased nobleman was widely known in society , and much liked for his genial manner and sumptuous hospitality . 
He is succeeded by , etc . 
By slow degrees the details came to light , but the case still remained a mystery . 
At about eleven o'clock Lord Argentine had returned , and informed his man that he should not require his services till the next morning . 
A little later the valet had occasion to cross the hall and was somewhat astonished to see his master quietly letting himself out at the front door . 
He had taken off his evening clothes , and was dressed in a Norfolk coat and knickerbockers , and wore a low brown hat . 
All papers , letters , and so forth seemed in perfect order , and nothing was discovered which pointed in the most remote way to any scandal either great or small . 
Here the evidence ended nothing more could be discovered . 
Several persons had been present at the dinner party at which Lord Augustine had assisted , and to all these he seemed in his usual genial spirits . 
It seemed hopeless to seek for any clue , and the suggestion that Lord Argentine had been suddenly attacked by acute suicidal mania was generally accepted . 
There was no explanation in either case a few bald facts a living man in the evening , and a body with a black swollen face in the morning . 
A short while after the last of these terrible events , Austin came to see Mr. Villiers . 
No , said Villiers , I wrote to Clarke , but he remains obdurate , and I have tried other channels , but without any result . 
I can't find out what became of Helen Vaughan after she left Paul Street , but I think she must have gone abroad . 
I can well believe it , answered Austin gravely , you know Argentine was a friend of mine . 
If I remember rightly , we were speaking of him that day you came to my rooms . 
Yes it was in connection with that house in Ashley Street , Mrs. Beaumont's house . 
You said something about Argentine's dining there . 
Of course you know it was there Argentine dined the night before before his death . 
No , I had not heard that . 
Oh , yes the name was kept out of the papers to spare Mrs. Beaumont . 
Argentine was a great favourite of hers , and it is said she was in a terrible state for sometime after . 
A curious look came over Villiers' face he seemed undecided whether to speak or not . 
I never experienced such a feeling of horror as when I read the account of Argentine's death . 
I didn't understand it at the time , and I don't now . 
As for the theory of mania , that is very well , of course , for the coroner's jury , but everybody knows that it's all nonsense . 
Suicidal mania is not small pox . 
Austin relapsed into gloomy silence . 
Villiers sat silent , also , watching his friend . 
The expression of indecision still fleeted across his face he seemed as if weighing his thoughts in the balance , and the considerations he was resolving left him still silent . 
That Mrs. Beaumont , he said , of whom we were speaking , is a great success she has taken London almost by storm . 
I met her the other night at Fulham's she is really a remarkable woman . 
You have met Mrs. Beaumont ? Yes she had quite a court around her . 
She would be called very handsome , I suppose , and yet there is something about her face which I didn't like . 
The features are exquisite , but the expression is strange . 
You must have seen her in the Row . 
No , I am sure I never set eyes on the woman before it is that which makes it puzzling . 
And to the best of my belief I have never seen anyone like her what I felt was a kind of dim far off memory , vague but persistent . 
The only sensation I can compare it to , is that odd feeling one sometimes has in a dream , when fantastic cities and wondrous lands and phantom personages appear familiar and accustomed . 
Villiers nodded and glanced aimlessly round the room , possibly in search of something on which to turn the conversation . 
His eyes fell on an old chest somewhat like that in which the artist's strange legacy lay hid beneath a Gothic scutcheon . 
Have you written to the doctor about poor Meyrick ? he asked . 
Yes I wrote asking for full particulars as to his illness and death . 
I don't expect to have an answer for another three weeks or a month . 
I thought I might as well inquire whether Meyrick knew an Englishwoman named Herbert , and if so , whether the doctor could give me any information about her . 
But it's very possible that Meyrick fell in with her at New York , or Mexico , or San Francisco I have no idea as to the extent or direction of his travels . 
Yes , and it's very possible that the woman may have more than one name . 
I wish I had thought of asking you to lend me the portrait of her which you possess . 
I might have enclosed it in my letter to Dr . 
So you might that never occurred to me . 
We might send it now . 
Hark ! what are those boys calling ? While the two men had been talking together a confused noise of shouting had been gradually growing louder . 
The window was open and the air seemed full of noise and terror . 
Another gentleman has fallen a victim to the terrible epidemic of suicide which for the last month has prevailed in the West End . 
The deceased gentleman dined last night at the Carlton Club and seemed in his usual health and spirits . 
He left the club at about ten o'clock , and was seen walking leisurely up St . 
James's Street a little later . 
Subsequent to this his movements cannot be traced . 
On the discovery of the body medical aid was at once summoned , but life had evidently been long extinct . 
So far as is known , Mr. Crashaw had no trouble or anxiety of any kind . 
This painful suicide , it will be remembered , is the fifth of the kind in the last month . 
The authorities at Scotland Yard are unable to suggest any explanation of these terrible occurrences . 
Austin put down the paper in mute horror . 
I shall leave London to morrow , he said , it is a city of nightmares . 
How awful this is , Villiers ! Mr. Villiers was sitting by the window quietly looking out into the street . 
He had listened to the newspaper report attentively , and the hint of indecision was no longer on his face . 
Wait a moment , Austin , he replied , I have made up my mind to mention a little matter that occurred last night . 
It stated , I think , that Crashaw was last seen alive in St . 
James's Street shortly after ten ? Yes , I think so . 
Yes , you are quite right . 
Well , I am in a position to contradict that statement at all events . 
Crashaw was seen after that considerably later indeed . 
How do you know ? Because I happened to see Crashaw myself at about two o'clock this morning . 
You saw Crashaw ? You , Villiers ? Yes , I saw him quite distinctly indeed , there were but a few feet between us . 
Where , in Heaven's name , did you see him ? Not far from here . 
I saw him in Ashley Street . 
He was just leaving a house . 
Did you notice what house it was ? Yes . 
Villiers ! Think what you are saying there must be some mistake . 
How could Crashaw be in Mrs. Beaumont's house at two o'clock in the morning ? Surely , surely , you must have been dreaming , Villiers you were always rather fanciful . 
No I was wide awake enough . 
Even if I had been dreaming as you say , what I saw would have roused me effectually . 
What you saw ? What did you see ? Was there anything strange about Crashaw ? But I can't believe it it is impossible . 
Well , if you like I will tell you what I saw , or if you please , what I think I saw , and you can judge for yourself . 
Villiers turned from the window and began speaking . 
I was at a house near Regent's Park last night , and when I came away the fancy took me to walk home instead of taking a hansom . 
It was a clear pleasant night enough , and after a few minutes I had the streets pretty much to myself . 
It was quieter than ever there , and the lamps were fewer altogether , it looked as dark and gloomy as a forest in winter . 
As it happens , there is a street lamp close to the house in question , and I saw a man standing on the step . 
He had just shut the door and his face was towards me , and I recognized Crashaw directly . 
I never knew him to speak to , but I had often seen him , and I am positive that I was not mistaken in my man . 
Why ? Why ? Because it made my blood run cold to see that man's face . 
I could never have supposed that such an infernal medley of passions could have glared out of any human eyes I almost fainted as I looked . 
I knew I had looked into the eyes of a lost soul , Austin , the man's outward form remained , but all hell was within it . 
I am sure that he did not see me he saw nothing that you or I can see , but what he saw I hope we never shall . 
There was an interval of silence in the room when Villiers ceased speaking . 
The light was failing , and all the tumult of an hour ago was quite hushed . 
Austin had bent his head at the close of the story , and his hand covered his eyes . 
What can it mean ? he said at length . 
Who knows , Austin , who knows ? It's a black business , but I think we had better keep it to ourselves , for the present at any rate . 
I will see if I cannot learn anything about that house through private channels of information , and if I do light upon anything I will let you know . 
VII THE ENCOUNTER IN SOHO Three weeks later Austin received a note from Villiers , asking him to call either that afternoon or the next . 
He chose the nearer date , and found Villiers sitting as usual by the window , apparently lost in meditation on the drowsy traffic of the street . 
But my investigations have had a strange issue . 
I have found out who Mrs. Beaumont is ! Who is she ? In what way do you mean ? I mean that you and I know her better under another name . 
What name is that ? Herbert . 
Herbert ! Austin repeated the word , dazed with astonishment . 
Yes , Mrs. Herbert of Paul Street , Helen Vaughan of earlier adventures unknown to me . 
You had reason to recognize the expression of her face when you go home look at the face in Meyrick's book of horrors , and you will know the sources of your recollection . 
I saw her entering a house in one of the meanest and most disreputable streets in Soho . 
In fact , I had made an appointment , though not with her , and she was precise to both time and place . 
All this seems very wonderful , but I cannot call it incredible . 
But you know what you are saying . 
I do I have not allowed myself to be led by surmises or fancies . 
It was with no thought of finding Helen Vaughan that I searched for Mrs. Beaumont in the dark waters of the life of London , but such has been the issue . 
You must have been in strange places , Villiers . 
Yes , I have been in very strange places . 
It would have been useless , you know , to go to Ashley Street , and ask Mrs. Beaumont to give me a short sketch of her previous history . 
If you see mud at the top of a stream , you may be sure that it was once at the bottom . 
I went to the bottom . 
I have always been fond of diving into Queer Street for my amusement , and I found my knowledge of that locality and its inhabitants very useful . 
It was to this effect . 
Some five or six years ago , a woman named Raymond suddenly made her appearance in the neighbourhood to which I am referring . 
She was described to me as being quite young , probably not more than seventeen or eighteen , very handsome , and looking as if she came from the country . 
At first she came to her old haunts only occasionally , then more frequently , and finally took up her abode there as before , and remained for six or eight months . 
It's of no use my going into details as to the life that woman led if you want particulars you can look at Meyrick's legacy . 
Those designs were not drawn from his imagination . 
She again disappeared , and the people of the place saw nothing of her till a few months ago . 
That look was quite enough for me I knew Miss Raymond to be Mrs. Herbert as for Mrs. Beaumont she had quite gone out of my head . 
She went into the house , and I watched it till four o'clock , when she came out , and then I followed her . 
It was a long chase , and I had to be very careful to keep a long way in the background , and yet not lose sight of the woman . 
She took me down to the Strand , and then to Westminster , and then up St . 
James's Street , and along Piccadilly . 
I felt queerish when I saw her turn up Ashley Street the thought that Mrs. Herbert was Mrs. Beaumont came into my mind , but it seemed too impossible to be true . 
I waited at the corner , keeping my eye on her all the time , and I took particular care to note the house at which she stopped . 
It was the house with the gay curtains , the home of flowers , the house out of which Crashaw came the night he hanged himself in his garden . 
There , as it happened , I met a man I know , and we stood talking together a little distance from the carriage way , to which I had my back . 
We had not been there for ten minutes when my friend took off his hat , and I glanced round and saw the lady I had been following all day . 
'Who is that ? I said , and his answer was 'Mrs . 
Beaumont lives in Ashley Street . 
Of course there could be no doubt after that . 
I don't know whether she saw me , but I don't think she did . 
I went home at once , and , on consideration , I thought that I had a sufficiently good case with which to go to Clarke . 
Why to Clarke ? Because I am sure that Clarke is in possession of facts about this woman , facts of which I know nothing . 
You would never go into such a house as that ? No , no , Villiers , you cannot do it . 
Besides , consider what result . 
I will tell you soon . 
But I was going to say that my information does not end here it has been completed in an extraordinary manner . 
Look at this neat little packet of manuscript it is paginated , you see , and I have indulged in the civil coquetry of a ribbon of red tape . 
It has almost a legal air , hasn't it ? Run your eye over it , Austin . 
It is an account of the entertainment Mrs. Beaumont provided for her choicer guests . 
The man who wrote this escaped with his life , but I do not think he will live many years . 
The doctors tell him he must have sustained some severe shock to the nerves . 
Austin took the manuscript , but never read it . 
Take it away , Villiers , never speak of this again . 
I will not read it I should never sleep again . 
I can fancy what you saw . 
We know what happened to those who chanced to meet the Great God Pan , and those who are wise know that all symbols are symbols of something , not of nothing . 
Austin sat silent for a while , but Villiers saw him make a sign upon his breast . 
I say again , Villiers , you will surely never enter such a house as that ? You would never pass out alive . 
Yes , Austin , I shall go out alive I , and Clarke with me . 
What do you mean ? You cannot , you would not dare . 
The air was very pleasant and fresh this morning there was a breeze blowing , even through this dull street , and I thought I would take a walk . 
Piccadilly stretched before me a clear , bright vista , and the sun flashed on the carriages and on the quivering leaves in the park . 
I think it was a cold shudder that suddenly passed through me that first told me that I had found what I wanted . 
I paid what he asked , and stood leaning by the counter , with a strange reluctance to take up my goods and go . 
I got away at last , and walked along sharply it was a dismal street indeed , and I was glad to return to the bustle and the noise . 
Would you like to see my purchase ? Austin said nothing , but nodded his head slightly he still looked white and sick . 
Villiers pulled out a drawer in the bamboo table , and showed Austin a long coil of cord , hard and new and at one end was a running noose . 
It is the best hempen cord , said Villiers , just as it used to be made for the old trade , the man told me . 
Not an inch of jute from end to end . 
Austin set his teeth hard , and stared at Villiers , growing whiter as he looked . 
You would not do it , he murmured at last . 
You would not have blood on your hands . 
If when we go in it is not done , I shall call the nearest policeman . 
I cannot stay here any longer I cannot bear this . 
The door shut , but in a moment it was open again , and Austin stood , white and ghastly , in the entrance . 
I was forgetting , he said , that I too have something to tell . 
I have received a letter from Dr . 
He says that he attended Meyrick for three weeks before his death . 
And does he say what carried him off in the prime of life ? It was not fever ? No , it was not fever . 
According to the doctor , it was an utter collapse of the whole system , probably caused by some severe shock . 
But he states that the patient would tell him nothing , and that he was consequently at some disadvantage in treating the case . 
Is there anything more ? Yes . 
Harding ends his letter by saying 'I think this is all the information I can give you about your poor friend . 
VIII THE FRAGMENTS Amongst the papers of the well known physician , Dr . 
These notes were in Latin , much abbreviated , and had evidently been made in great haste . 
was only deciphered with difficulty , and some words have up to the present time evaded all the efforts of the expert employed . 
The date , XXV Jul . 
, is written on the right hand corner of the MS . 
The following is a translation of Dr . 
Whether science would benefit by these brief notes if they could be published , I do not know , but rather doubt . 
As was befitting , I did all that my knowledge suggested to make sure that I was suffering under no delusion . 
I then fixed my eyes quietly on what was before me . 
Though horror and revolting nausea rose up within me , and an odour of corruption choked my breath , I remained firm . 
I was then privileged or accursed , I dare not say which , to see that which was on the bed , lying there black like ink , transformed before my eyes . 
I know that the body may be separated into its elements by external agencies , but I should have refused to believe what I saw . 
For here there was some internal force , of which I knew nothing , that caused dissolution and change . 
Here too was all the work by which man had been made repeated before my eyes . 
I saw the form waver from sex to sex , dividing itself from itself , and then again reunited . 
Then I saw the body descend to the beasts whence it ascended , and that which was on the heights go down to the depths , even to the abyss of all being . 
The principle of life , which makes organism , always remained , while the outward form changed . 
The light within the room had turned to blackness , not the darkness of night , in which objects are seen dimly , for I could see clearly and without difficulty . 
I watched , and at last I saw nothing but a substance as jelly . 
Then the ladder was ascended again . 
for one instance I saw a Form , shaped in dimness before me , which I will not farther describe . 
But the symbol of this form may be seen in ancient sculptures , and in paintings which survived beneath the lava , too foul to be spoken of . 
as a horrible and unspeakable shape , neither man nor beast , was changed into human form , there came finally death . 
I who saw all this , not without great horror and loathing of soul , here write my name , declaring all that I have set on this paper to be true . 
Such , Raymond , is the story of what I know and what I have seen . 
The burden of it was too heavy for me to bear alone , and yet I could tell it to none but you . 
What this can mean I dare not guess . 
I know that what I saw perish was not Mary , and yet in the last agony Mary's eyes looked into mine . 
And if you know the secret , it rests with you to tell it or not , as you please . 
I am writing this letter to you immediately on my getting back to town . 
I have been in the country for the last few days perhaps you may be able to guess in which part . 
While the horror and wonder of London was at its height for Mrs. Beaumont , as I have told you , was well known in society I wrote to my friend Dr . 
The parents , he said , had undoubtedly died of grief and horror caused by the terrible death of their daughter , and by what had gone before that death . 
It was the house where Helen had lived . 
I stayed at Caermaen for several days . 
The people of the place , I found , knew little and had guessed less . 
should trouble about a village tragedy , of which they gave a very commonplace version , and , as you may imagine , I told nothing of what I knew . 
And so at least I came to the place . 
And into this pleasant summer glade Rachel passed a girl , and left it , who shall say what ? I did not stay long there . 
In a small town near Caermaen there is a museum , containing for the most part Roman remains which have been found in the neighbourhood at various times . 
On the day after my arrival in Caermaen I walked over to the town in question , and took the opportunity of inspecting the museum . 
On one side of the pillar was an inscription , of which I took a note . 
Some of the letters have been defaced , but I do not think there can be any doubt as to those which I supply . 
Flavius Senilis has erected this pillar on account of the marriage which he saw beneath the shade . 
And now , my dear Clarke , as to what you tell me about Helen Vaughan , whom you say you saw die under circumstances of the utmost and almost incredible horror . 
I was interested in your account , but a good deal , nay all , of what you told me I knew already . 
I can understand the strange likeness you remarked in both the portrait and in the actual face you have seen Helen's mother . 
You remember that still summer night so many years ago , when I talked to you of the world beyond the shadows , and of the god Pan . 
She was the mother of Helen Vaughan , who was born nine months after that night . 
Mary never recovered her reason . 
She lay , as you saw her , all the while upon her bed , and a few days after the child was born she died . 
You did well to blame me , but my theory was not all absurdity . 
What I said Mary would see she saw , but I forgot that no human eyes can look on such a sight with impunity . 
I played with energies which I did not understand , you have seen the ending of it . 
Helen Vaughan did well to bind the cord about her neck and die , though the death was horrible . 
It was for me a constant , an incarnate horror , and after a few years I felt I could bear it no more , and I sent Helen Vaughan away . 
You know now what frightened the boy in the wood . 
And now Helen is with her companions . 
