The Heroes , or Greek Fairy Tales For My Children by Charles Kingsley Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
Now you must remember one thing that 'Greeks' was not their real name . 
They called themselves always 'Hellens , but the Romans miscalled them Greeks and we have taken that wrong name from the Romans it would take a long time to tell you why . 
, and along the shores of the Black Sea at Sinope , and Kertch , and at Sevastopol . 
And after that , again , they spread under Alexander the Great , and conquered Egypt , and Syria , and Persia , and the whole East . 
And if you are puzzled by the names of places in this book , you must take the maps and find them out . 
It will be a pleasanter way of learning geography than out of a dull lesson book . 
Come and see old friends of mine , whom I knew long ere you were born . 
For nations begin at first by being children like you , though they are made up of grown men . 
Thus these old Greeks were teachable , and learnt from all the nations round . 
For you must not fancy , children , that because these old Greeks were heathens , therefore God did not care for them , and taught them nothing . 
For Jesus Christ , remember , is the Light who lights every man who comes into the world . 
But these Greeks , as St . 
For , like all nations who have left anything behind them , beside mere mounds of earth , they believed at first in the One True God who made all heaven and earth . 
And they honoured the Erinnues , the dreadful sisters , who , they thought , haunted guilty men until their sins were purged away . 
But we will talk of such sad things no more . 
But , at the time of which this little book speaks , they had not fallen as low as that . 
that the gods loved men , and taught them , and that without the gods men were sure to come to ruin . 
And in that they were right enough , as we know more right even than they thought for without God we can do nothing , and all wisdom comes from Him . 
Now , while they were young and simple they loved fairy tales , as you do now . 
All nations do so when they are young our old forefathers did , and called their stories 'Sagas . 
I will read you some of them some day some of the Eddas , and the Volusp , and Beowulf , and the noble old Romances . 
The old Arabs , again , had their tales , which we now call the 'Arabian Nights . 
But you shall hear how the Hellens said their heroes worked , three thousand years ago . 
FARLEY COURT , ADVENT , . 
STORY I. PERSEUS PART I HOW PERSEUS AND HIS MOTHER CAME TO SERIPHOS ONCE upon a time there were two princes who were twins . 
Their names were Acrisius and Proetus , and they lived in the pleasant vale of Argos , far away in Hellas . 
From the moment they were born they began to quarrel and when they grew up each tried to take away the other's share of the kingdom , and keep all for himself . 
And Proetus and his Cyclopes built around Tiryns great walls of unhewn stone , which are standing to this day . 
Your daughter Danae shall bear a son , and by that son's hands you shall die . 
So the Gods have ordained , and it will surely come to pass . 
And at that Acrisius was very much afraid but he did not mend his ways . 
So he fancied himself more cunning than the Gods but you will see presently whether he was able to escape them . 
Now it came to pass that in time Danae bore a son so beautiful a babe that any but King Acrisius would have had pity on it . 
The north west wind blew freshly out of the blue mountains , and down the pleasant vale of Argos , and away and out to sea . 
And away and out to sea before it floated the mother and her babe , while all who watched them wept , save that cruel father , King Acrisius . 
And now they are past the last blue headland , and in the open sea and there is nothing round them but the waves , and the sky , and the wind . 
And who were Halcyone and Ceyx ? You shall hear while the chest floats on . 
Halcyone was a fairy maiden , the daughter of the beach and of the wind . 
And she loved a sailor boy , and married him and none on earth were so happy as they . 
But at last Ceyx was wrecked and before he could swim to the shore the billows swallowed him up . 
And Halcyone saw him drowning , and leapt into the sea to him but in vain . 
And all the while the babe slept quietly and at last poor Danae drooped her head and fell asleep likewise with her cheek against the babe's . 
After a while she was awakened suddenly for the chest was jarring and grinding , and the air was full of sound . 
She looked up , and over her head were mighty cliffs , all red in the setting sun , and around her rocks and breakers , and flying flakes of foam . 
She clasped her hands together , and shrieked aloud for help . 
And as he spoke he pointed to the babe for its face shone like the morning star . 
I am the brother of Polydectes the king and men call me Dictys the netter , because I catch the fish of the shore . 
is of no common race . 
I will not be a charge to you , or eat the bread of idleness for I am more skilful in weaving and embroidery than all the maidens of my land . 
Come with me then , and you shall be a daughter to me and to my wife , and this babe shall be our grandchild . 
For I fear the Gods , and show hospitality to all strangers knowing that good deeds , like evil ones , always return to those who do them . 
So Danae was comforted , and went home with Dictys the good fisherman , and was a daughter to him and to his wife , till fifteen years were past . 
And he was brave and truthful , gentle and courteous , for good old Dictys had trained him well and well it was for Perseus that he had done so . 
For now Danae and her son fell into great danger , and Perseus had need of all his wit to defend his mother and himself . 
I said that Dictys' brother was Polydectes , king of the island . 
He was not a righteous man , like Dictys but greedy , and cunning , and cruel . 
And when he saw fair Danae , he wanted to marry her . 
But she would not for she did not love him , and cared for no one but her boy , and her boy's father , whom she never hoped to see again . 
But Perseus was far away over the seas in the isle of Samos , little thinking how his mother was languishing in grief . 
And as he slept a strange dream came to him the strangest dream which he had ever had in his life . 
On her head was a helmet , and in her hand a spear . 
And over her shoulder , above her long blue robes , hung a goat skin , which bore up a mighty shield of brass , polished like a mirror . 
And Perseus dropped his eyes , trembling and blushing , as the wonderful lady spoke . 
'Perseus , you must do an errand for me . 
And from the souls of clay I turn away , and they are blest , but not by me . 
They fatten at ease , like sheep in the pasture , and eat what they did not sow , like oxen in the stall . 
'But to the souls of fire I give more fire , and to those who are manful I give a might more than man's . 
These are the heroes , the sons of the Immortals , who are blest , but not like the souls of clay . 
For I drive them forth by strange paths , Perseus , that they may fight the Titans and the monsters , the enemies of Gods and men . 
And Perseus looked awhile , and then said 'If there is anything so fierce and foul on earth , it were a noble deed to kill it . 
Return to your home , and do the work which waits there for you . 
You must play the man in that before I can think you worthy to go in search of the Gorgon . 
Then Perseus would have spoken , but the strange lady vanished , and he awoke and behold , it was a dream . 
But day and night Perseus saw before him the face of that dreadful woman , with the vipers writhing round her head . 
So he returned home and when he came to Seriphos , the first thing which he heard was that his mother was a slave in the house of Polydectes . 
, till he found his mother sitting on the floor , turning the stone hand mill , and weeping as she turned it . 
And he lifted her up , and kissed her , and bade her follow him forth . 
But before they could pass out of the room Polydectes came in , raging . 
And when Perseus saw him , he flew upon him as the mastiff flies on the boar . 
Good Dictys , too , who had come in , entreated him . 
'Remember that he is my brother . 
Remember how I have brought you up , and trained you as my own son , and spare him for my sake . 
Now he was sure that he could never get back Danae as long as Perseus was in the island so he made a plot to rid himself of him . 
And first he pretended to have forgiven Perseus , and to have forgotten Danae so that , for a while , all went as smoothly as ever . 
He was ashamed , however , to go into the king's presence without his gift and he was too proud to ask Dictys to lend him one . 
'This fellow was thrown ashore here like a piece of weed or drift wood , and yet he is too proud to bring a gift to the king . 
'And though he does not know who his father is , he is vain enough to let the old women call him the son of Zeus . 
'Hear him ! Hear the boaster ! What is it to be ? cried they all , laughing louder than ever . 
Then his dream at Samos came into his mind , and he cried aloud , 'The head of the Gorgon . 
He was half afraid after he had said the words for all laughed louder than ever , and Polydectes loudest of all . 
'You have promised to bring me the Gorgon's head ? Then never appear again in this island without it . 
Go ! Perseus ground his teeth with rage , for he saw that he had fallen into a trap but his promise lay upon him , and he went out without a word . 
Down to the cliffs he went , and looked across the broad blue sea and he wondered if his dream were true , and prayed in the bitterness of his soul . 
Rashly and angrily I promised but cunningly and patiently will I perform . 
But there was no answer , nor sign neither thunder nor any appearance not even a cloud in the sky . 
And three times Perseus called weeping , 'Rashly and angrily I promised but cunningly and patiently will I perform . 
Then he saw afar off above the sea a small white cloud , as bright as silver . 
And it came on , nearer and nearer , till its brightness dazzled his eyes . 
Perseus wondered at that strange cloud , for there was no other cloud all round the sky and he trembled as it touched the cliff below . 
By his side was a scimitar of diamond , all of one clear precious stone , and on his feet were golden sandals , from the heels of which grew living wings . 
And Perseus fell down and worshipped , for he knew that they were more than man . 
But Athene stood before him and spoke gently , and bid him have no fear . 
Then 'Perseus , she said , 'he who overcomes in one trial merits thereby a sharper trial still . 
You have braved Polydectes , and done manfully . 
'Better so than live here , useless and despised , said Perseus . 
You must ask them the way to the Nymphs , the daughters of the Evening Star , who dance about the golden tree , in the Atlantic island of the west . 
They will tell you the way to the Gorgon , that you may slay her , my enemy , the mother of monstrous beasts . 
So she became the sister of the Gorgons , Stheino and Euryte the abhorred , the daughters of the Queen of the Sea . 
Touch them not , for they are immortal but bring me only Medusa's head . 
Then Perseus said , 'I will go , though I die in going . 
Arise , and gird them on , and go forth . 
So Perseus arose , and girded on the sandals and the sword . 
And Athene cried , 'Now leap from the cliff and be gone . 
I will comfort her and Dictys until you return in peace . 
Nor shall you offer burnt offerings to the Olympians for your offering shall be Medusa's head . 
Leap , and trust in the armour of the Immortals . 
Then Perseus looked down the cliff and shuddered but he was ashamed to show his dread . 
Then he thought of Medusa and the renown before him , and he leaped into the empty air . 
And behold , instead of falling he floated , and stood , and ran along the sky . 
He looked back , but Athene had vanished , and Hermes and the sandals led him on northward ever , like a crane who follows the spring toward the Ister fens . 
Then he passed the Thracian mountains , and many a barbarous tribe , Paeons and Dardans and Triballi , till he came to the Ister stream , and the dreary Scythian plains . 
There was no living thing around them , not a fly , not a moss upon the rocks . 
Neither seal nor sea gull dare come near , lest the ice should clutch them in its claws . 
And Perseus pitied the three Gray Sisters but they did not pity themselves . 
So he said , 'Oh , venerable mothers , wisdom is the daughter of old age . 
You therefore should know many things . 
Tell me , if you can , the path to the Gorgon . 
Then one cried , 'Who is this who reproaches us with old age ? And another , 'This is the voice of one of the children of men . 
And he , 'I do not reproach , but honour your old age , and I am one of the sons of men and of the heroes . 
The rulers of Olympus have sent me to you to ask the way to the Gorgon . 
Then one , 'There are new rulers in Olympus , and all new things are bad . 
And another , 'We hate your rulers , and the heroes , and all the children of men . 
We are the kindred of the Titans , and the Giants , and the Gorgons , and the ancient monsters of the deep . 
Then one cried , 'Give me the eye , that I may see him and another , 'Give me the tooth , that I may bite him . 
Then he stepped close to them , and watched till they passed the eye from hand to hand . 
Then they wept , and chattered , and scolded but in vain . 
They were forced to tell the truth , though , when they told it , Perseus could hardly make out the road . 
And you must ask his daughters , the Hesperides , who are young and foolish like yourself . 
And now give us back our eye , for we have forgotten all the rest . 
And all night long the sea nymphs sang sweetly , and the Tritons blew upon their conchs , as they played round Galataea their queen , in her car of pearled shells . 
Its feet were wrapped in forests , and its head in wreaths of cloud and Perseus knew that it was Atlas , who holds the heavens and the earth apart . 
At last he heard sweet voices singing and he guessed that he was come to the garden of the Nymphs , the daughters of the Evening Star . 
Tell me , fair Nymphs , the way which leads to the Gorgon , that I may go on my way and slay her . 
'Not yet , not yet , fair boy come dance with us around the tree in the garden which knows no winter , the home of the south wind and the sun . 
Come hither and play with us awhile we have danced alone here for a thousand years , and our hearts are weary with longing for a playfellow . 
So come , come , come ! 'I cannot dance with you , fair maidens for I must do the errand of the Immortals . 
So tell me the way to the Gorgon , lest I wander and perish in the waves . 
Then they sighed and wept and answered 'The Gorgon ! she will freeze you into stone . 
'It is better to die like a hero than to live like an ox in a stall . 
The Immortals have lent me weapons , and they will give me wit to use them . 
Then they sighed again and answered , 'Fair boy , if you are bent on your own ruin , be it so . 
We know not the way to the Gorgon but we will ask the giant Atlas , above upon the mountain peak , the brother of our father , the silver Evening Star . 
He sits aloft and sees across the ocean , and far away into the Unshapen Land . 
So they went up the mountain to Atlas their uncle , and Perseus went up with them . 
And they found the giant kneeling , as he held the heavens and the earth apart . 
Then cried Perseus , 'Where is that hat , that I may find it ? But the giant smiled . 
'No living mortal can find that hat , for it lies in the depths of Hades , in the regions of the dead . 
But my nieces are immortal , and they shall fetch it for you , if you will promise me one thing and keep your faith . 
Then all the Nymphs kissed Perseus , and wept over him a long while but he was only impatient to be gone . 
And at last they put the hat upon his head , and he vanished out of their sight . 
He thought awhile with himself , and remembered Athene's words . 
He rose aloft into the air , and held the mirror of the shield above his head , and looked up into it that he might see all that was below him . 
And he saw the three Gorgons sleeping as huge as elephants . 
He knew that they could not see him , because the hat of darkness hid him and yet he trembled as he sank down near them , so terrible were those brazen claws . 
Then he came down and stepped to her boldly , and looked steadfastly on his mirror , and struck with Herpe stoutly once and he did not need to strike again . 
Then he wrapped the head in the goat skin , turning away his eyes , and sprang into the air aloft , faster than he ever sprang before . 
For Medusa's wings and talons rattled as she sank dead upon the rocks and her two foul sisters woke , and saw her lying dead . 
Into the air they sprang yelling and looked for him who had done the deed . 
Thrice they swung round and round , like hawks who beat for a partridge and thrice they snuffed round and round , like hounds who draw upon a deer . 
Then he came again to Atlas , and the garden of the Nymphs and when the giant heard him coming he groaned , and said , 'Fulfil thy promise to me . 
And as he went the blood drops fell to the earth from the Gorgon's head , and became poisonous asps and adders , which breed in the desert to this day . 
But now came down a mighty wind , and swept him back southward toward the desert . 
All day long he strove against it but even the winged sandals could not prevail . 
So he was forced to float down the wind all night and when the morning dawned there was nothing to be seen , save the same old hateful waste of sand . 
And Perseus stood still a while , and waited , and said , 'Surely I am not here without the will of the Immortals , for Athene will not lie . 
Were not these sandals to lead me in the right road ? Then the road in which I have tried to go must be a wrong road . 
Then suddenly his ears were opened , and he heard the sound of running water . 
And through the lawn a streamlet sparkled and wandered out beyond the trees , and vanished in the sand . 
And then , behold , beneath him was the long green garden of Egypt and the shining stream of Nile . 
And he saw cities walled up to heaven , and temples , and obelisks , and pyramids , and giant Gods of stone . 
Thy hair is like threads of gold , and ours is black and curled . 
And I have slain the Gorgon in the wilderness , and bear her head with me . 
Give me food , therefore , that I may go forward and finish my work . 
Then they gave him food , and fruit , and wine but they would not let him go . 
He went past the Isthmus , and Mount Casius , and the vast Serbonian bog , and up the shore of Palestine , where the dark faced AEthiops dwelt . 
He flew on past pleasant hills and valleys , like Argos itself , or Lacedaemon , or the fair Vale of Tempe . 
And at the dawn of day he looked toward the cliffs and at the water's edge , under a black rock , he saw a white image stand . 
'This , thought he , 'must surely be the statue of some sea God I will go near and see what kind of Gods these barbarians worship . 
But now and then she looked up and wailed , and called her mother yet she did not see Perseus , for the cap of darkness was on his head . 
Full of pity and indignation , Perseus drew near and looked upon the maid . 
Surely she is a king's daughter . 
Do barbarians treat their kings' daughters thus ? She is too fair , at least , to have done any wrong I will speak to her . 
And , lifting the hat from his head , he flashed into her sight . 
What cruel men have bound you ? But first I will set you free . 
And he tore at the fetters , but they were too strong for him while the maiden cried 'Touch me not I am accursed , devoted as a victim to the sea Gods . 
They will slay you , if you dare to set me free . 
'Let them try , said Perseus and drawing , Herpe from his thigh , he cut through the brass as if it had been flax . 
'Now , he said , 'you belong to me , and not to these sea Gods , whosoever they may be ! But she only called the more on her mother . 
'Why call on your mother ? She can be no mother to have left you here . 
If a bird is dropped out of the nest , it belongs to the man who picks it up . 
If a jewel is cast by the wayside , it is his who dare win it and wear it , as I will win you and will wear you . 
I know now why Pallas Athene sent me hither . 
She sent me to gain a prize worth all my toil and more . 
Let them measure their strength against mine ! But tell me , maiden , who you are , and what dark fate brought you here . 
And I stand bound here , hapless that I am , for the sea monster's food , to atone for my mother's sin . 
Yet the priests say that nothing but my blood can atone for a sin which I never committed . 
But Perseus cried , 'Not so for the Lords of Olympus , whom I serve , are the friends of the heroes , and help them on to noble deeds . 
Led by them , I slew the Gorgon , the beautiful horror and not without them do I come hither , to slay this monster with that same Gorgon's head . 
Yet hide your eyes when I leave you , lest the sight of it freeze you too to stone . 
But the maiden answered nothing , for she could not believe his words . 
And then , suddenly looking up , she pointed to the sea , and shrieked 'There he comes , with the sunrise , as they promised . 
Promise me , and seal it with a kiss . 
Then she lifted up her face , and kissed him and Perseus laughed for joy , and flew upward , while Andromeda crouched trembling on the rock , waiting for what might befall . 
At last he saw Andromeda , and shot forward to take his prey , while the waves foamed white behind him , and before him the fish fled leaping . 
At last she looked up trembling , and saw Perseus springing toward her and instead of the monster a long black rock , with the sea rippling quietly round it . 
And already a messenger had gone to Cepheus and Cassiopoeia , where they sat in sackcloth and ashes on the ground , in the innermost palace chambers , awaiting their daughter's end . 
Then Cepheus said , 'Hero of the Hellens , stay here with me and be my son in law , and I will give you the half of my kingdom . 
Then Cepheus said , 'You must not take my daughter away at once , for she is to us like one alive from the dead . 
Stay with us here a year , and after that you shall return with honour . 
And some said , 'This is a pious man yet the priests said , 'The Sea Queen will be yet more fierce against us , because her monster is slain . 
But they were afraid to speak aloud , for they feared the Gorgon's head . 
As yet he seems but a helpless bride groom . 
He left this one to die , and dead she is to him . 
I saved her alive , and alive she is to me , but to no one else . 
But all the men at arms drew their swords , and rushed on him like wild beasts . 
Then he unveiled the Gorgon's head , and said , 'This has delivered my bride from one wild beast it shall deliver her from many . 
Then Persons bade the people bring levers and roll them out and what was done with them after that I cannot tell . 
Know now that the Gods are just , and help him who helps himself . 
And as for this land , I have appeased the sea and the fire , and there shall be no more floods nor earthquakes . 
But let the people build altars to Father Zeus , and to me , and worship the Immortals , the Lords of heaven and earth . 
And Perseus rose to give her the sword , and the cap , and the sandals but he woke , and his dream vanished away . 
But the remembrance of his brave deed was left behind and Andromeda's rock was shown at Iopa in Palestine till more than a thousand years were past . 
Then Perseus went out , and up to the hall of Polydectes and underneath the goat skin he bore the Gorgon's head . 
The harpers harped , and the revellers shouted , and the wine cups rang merrily as they passed from hand to hand , and great was the noise in the hall of Polydectes . 
Then Persons stood upon the threshold , and called to the king by name . 
But none of the guests knew Perseus , for he was changed by his long journey . 
Behold the Gorgon's head ! Then Perseus drew back the goat skin , and held aloft the Gorgon's head . 
Pale grew Polydectes and his guests as they looked upon that dreadful face . 
They tried to rise up from their seats but from their seats they never rose , but stiffened , each man where he sat , into a ring of cold gray stones . 
But Perseus rowed westward toward Argos , and landed , and went up to the town . 
And when he came , he found that Acrisius his grandfather had fled . 
Then Perseus called the Argives together , and told them who he was , and all the noble deeds which he had done . 
Then Perseus put out all his strength , and hurled . 
Perseus shrieked , and ran up to him but when they lifted the old man up he was dead , for his life was slow and feeble . 
Then Perseus rent his clothes , and cast dust upon his head , and wept a long while for his grandfather . 
At last he rose , and called to all the people aloud , and said 'The Gods are true , and what they have ordained must be . 
I am Perseus , the grandson of this dead man , the far famed slayer of the Gorgon . 
Then he told them how the prophecy had declared that he should kill his grandfather , and all the story of his life . 
Then he went home to Argos , and reigned there well with fair Andromeda and they had four sons and three daughters , and died in a good old age . 
And when they died , the ancients say , Athene took them up into the sky , with Cepheus and Cassiopoeia . 
All night long , they shine , for a beacon to wandering sailors but all day they feast with the Gods , on the still blue peaks of Olympus . 
Whither they sailed , my children , I cannot clearly tell . 
It all happened long ago so long that it has all grown dim , like a dream which you dreamt last year . 
And why they went I cannot tell some say that it was to win gold . 
It may be so but the noblest deeds which have been done on earth have not been done for gold . 
It was not for the sake of gold that the Lord came down and died , and the Apostles went out to preach the good news in all lands . 
And there are heroes in our days also , who do noble deeds , but not for gold . 
And what was that first Golden Fleece ? I do not know , nor care . 
For Phrixus and Helle were the children of the cloud nymph , and of Athamas the Minuan king . 
Then madness came upon that foolish king , Athamas , and ruin upon Ino and her children . 
But the people drove out King Athamas , because he had killed his child and he roamed about in his misery , till he came to the Oracle in Delphi . 
And the Oracle told him that he must wander for his sin , till the wild beasts should feast him as their guest . 
So he went on in hunger and sorrow for many a weary day , till he saw a pack of wolves . 
So he wandered no more but settled , and built a town , and became a king again . 
But the ram carried the two children far away over land and sea , till he came to the Thracian Chersonese , and there Helle fell into the sea . 
So those narrow straits are called 'Hellespont , after her and they bear that name until this day . 
Then the ram flew on with Phrixus to the north east across the sea which we call the Black Sea now but the Hellens call it Euxine . 
And after awhile Phrixus died , and was buried , but his spirit had no rest for he was buried far from his native land , and the pleasant hills of Hellas . 
Phrixus had a cousin called AEson , who was king in Iolcos by the sea . 
There he ruled over the rich Minuan heroes , as Athamas his uncle ruled in Boeotia and , like Athamas , he was an unhappy man . 
For he had a step brother named Pelias , of whom some said that he was a nymph's son , and there were dark and sad tales about his birth . 
When he was a babe he was cast out on the mountains , and a wild mare came by and kicked him . 
But a shepherd passing found the baby , with its face all blackened by the blow and took him home , and called him Pelias , because his face was bruised and black . 
Then the lad went in without trembling , for he too was a hero's son but when he was within , he stopped in wonder to listen to that magic song . 
And there he saw the singer lying upon bear skins and fragrant boughs Cheiron , the ancient centaur , the wisest of all things beneath the sky . 
And at the last old Cheiron was silent , and called the lad with a soft voice . 
Then he turned to AEson , and said , 'Go back in peace , and bend before the storm like a prudent man . 
This boy shall not cross the Anauros again , till he has become a glory to you and to the house of AEolus . 
Then Cheiron put the lyre into his hands , and taught him how to play it , till the sun sank low behind the cliff , and a shout was heard outside . 
And then in came the sons of the heroes , AEneas , and Heracles , and Peleus , and many another mighty name . 
And great Cheiron leapt up joyfully , and his hoofs made the cave resound , as they shouted , 'Come out , Father Cheiron come out and see our game . 
And Cheiron praised them all , each according to his deserts . 
, and drank of the clear spring water , for wine is not fit for growing lads . 
Then Cheiron took his lyre , and all the lads joined hands and as be played , they danced to his measure , in and out , and round and round . 
There they danced hand in hand , till the night fell over land and sea , while the black glen shone with their broad white limbs and the gleam of their golden hair . 
But he grew strong , and brave and cunning , upon the pleasant downs of Pelion , in the keen hungry mountain air . 
PART II HOW JASON LOST HIS SANDAL IN ANAUROS AND ten years came and went , and Jason was grown to be a mighty man . 
Some of his fellows were gone , and some were growing up by his side . 
Asclepius was gone into Peloponnese to work his wondrous cures on men and some say he used to raise the dead to life . 
And Heracles was gone to Thebes to fulfil those famous labours which have become a proverb among men . 
And Peleus had married a sea nymph , and his wedding is famous to this day . 
And AEneas was gone home to Troy , and many a noble tale you will read of him , and of all the other gallant heroes , the scholars of Cheiron the just . 
Then he looked east and saw the bright blue sea , which stretched away for ever toward the dawn . 
'A strong man has taken it and kept it long . 
'The happier I , said Jason , 'to see what man never saw before . 
And Cheiron sighed again , and said , 'The eaglet must leave the nest when it is fledged . 
Will you go to Iolcos by the sea ? Then promise me two things before you go . 
Jason promised , and Cheiron answered , 'Speak harshly to no soul whom you may meet , and stand by the word which you shall speak . 
Jason wondered why Cheiron asked this of him but he knew that the Centaur was a prophet , and saw things long before they came . 
So he promised , and leapt down the mountain , to take his fortune like a man . 
But the old woman whined all the more , 'I am weak and old , fair youth . 
For Hera's sake , carry me over the torrent . 
And Jason was going to answer her scornfully , when Cheiron's words came to his mind . 
So he said , 'For Hera's sake , the Queen of the Immortals on Olympus , I will carry you over the torrent , unless we both are drowned midway . 
Then the old dame leapt upon his back , as nimbly as a goat and Jason staggered in , wondering and the first step was up to his knees . 
And Jason fell upon his knees , and hid his face between his hands . 
And she spoke , 'I am the Queen of Olympus , Hera the wife of Zeus . 
As thou hast done to me , so will I do to thee . 
Call on me in the hour of need , and try if the Immortals can forget . 
Then he went down toward Iolcos and as he walked he found that he had lost one of his sandals in the flood . 
Then the old man looked back to his companions and one sighed , and another smiled at last he said , 'I will tell you , lest you rush upon your ruin unawares . 
The oracle in Delphi has said that a man wearing one sandal should take the kingdom from Pelias , and keep it for himself . 
Therefore beware how you go up to his palace , for he is the fiercest and most cunning of all kings . 
Then Jason laughed a great laugh , like a war horse in his pride . 
'Good news , good father , both for you and me . 
For that very end I came into the town . 
Then he strode on toward the palace of Pelias , while all the people wondered at his bearing . 
And he stood in the doorway and cried , 'Come out , come out , Pelias the valiant , and fight for your kingdom like a man . 
Pelias came out wondering , and 'Who are you , bold youth ? he cried . 
'I am Jason , the son of AEson , the heir of all this land . 
Then Pelias lifted up his hands and eyes , and wept , or seemed to weep and blessed the heavens which had brought his nephew to him , never to leave him more . 
'For , said he , 'I have but three daughters , and no son to be my heir . 
But come in , come in , and feast . 
Yet why did you drive my father out ? Pelias smiled , and sighed . 
'Men have slandered me in that , as in all things . 
Your father was growing old and weary , and he gave the kingdom up to me of his own will . 
You shall see him to morrow , and ask him and he will tell you the same . 
'One thing more there is , said Pelias , 'on which I need your advice for , though you are young , I see in you a wisdom beyond your years . 
There is one neighbour of mine , whom I dread more than all men on earth . 
I am stronger than he now , and can command him but I know that if he stay among us , he will work my ruin in the end . 
But Pelias only answered gently , 'My son , he shall be sent forthwith . 
I will go and fetch this golden fleece . 
Promise me but this in return , and keep your word as I keep mine . 
Then Pelias looked at him and almost loved him , in the midst of all his hate and said , 'I promise , and I will perform . 
It will be no shame to give up my kingdom to the man who wins that fleece . 
Then they swore a great oath between them and afterwards both went in , and lay down to sleep . 
But Jason could not sleep for thinking of his mighty oath , and how he was to fulfil it , all alone , and without wealth or friends . 
And sometimes he seemed to see the eyes of Hera , and to hear her words again 'Call on me in the hour of need , and see if the Immortals can forget . 
And on the morrow he went to Pelias , and said , 'Give me a victim , that I may sacrifice to Hera . 
And some said , 'Never was such a gathering of the heroes since the Hellens conquered the land . 
And at night Pelias feasted them like a king , and they slept in his palace porch . 
And now I must go out again , to the ends of all the earth , far away into the misty darkness , to the last wave of the Eastern Sea . 
But what is doomed must be , and a friend's demand obeyed for prayers are the daughters of Zeus , and who honours them honours him . 
Then Orpheus rose up sighing , and took his harp , and went over Strymon . 
Then all the heroes looked at each other blushing but Jason spoke , and said , 'Let us ask the magic bough perhaps it can help us in our need . 
And grand old songs they are , written in grand old rolling verse and they call them the Songs of Orpheus , or the Orphics , to this day . 
So they sailed past the Isle of Sciathos , with the Cape of Sepius on their left , and turned to the northward toward Pelion , up the long Magnesian shore . 
On their right hand was the open sea , and on their left old Pelion rose , while the clouds crawled round his dark pine forests , and his caps of summer snow . 
And at last Peleus spoke , 'Let us land here , friends , and climb the dear old hill once more . 
We are going on a fearful journey who knows if we shall see Pelion again ? Let us go up to Cheiron our master , and ask his blessing ere we start . 
But I held her and held her ever , till she took her own shape again , and led her to my father's house , and won her for my bride . 
And all the rulers of Olympus came to our wedding , and the heavens and the earth rejoiced together , when an Immortal wedded mortal man . 
So Tiphys the helmsman steered them to the shore under the crags of Pelion and they went up through the dark pine forests towards the Centaur's cave . 
And the heroes praised his song right heartily for some of them had helped in that great fight . 
And as he sang , his voice rose from the cave , above the crags , and through the tree tops , and the glens of oak and pine . 
And old Cheiron claps his hands together , and beat his hoofs upon the ground , for wonder at that magic song . 
And the heroes wept when they left him , till their great hearts could weep no more for he was kind and just and pious , and wiser than all beasts and men . 
For Homer tells us how he fought at Troy , and Virgil how he sailed away and founded Rome and men believed until late years that from him sprang our old British kings . 
But Heracles killed them all before morn with his deadly poisoned arrows but among them , in the darkness , he slew Cyzicus the kindly prince . 
Then they got to their ship and to their oars , and Tiphys bade them cast off the hawsers and go to sea . 
But as he spoke a whirlwind came , and spun the ARGO round , and twisted the hawsers together , so that no man could loose them . 
Then Tiphys dropped the rudder from his hand , and cried , 'This comes from the Gods above . 
But Jason went forward , and asked counsel of the magic bough . 
Then the magic bough spoke , and answered , 'This is because you have slain Cyzicus your friend . 
You must appease his soul , or you will never leave this shore . 
Jason went back sadly , and told the heroes what he had heard . 
And they leapt on shore , and searched till dawn and at dawn they found the body , all rolled in dust and blood , among the corpses of those monstrous beasts . 
And then they held games at the tomb , after the custom of those times , and Jason gave prizes to each winner . 
But when Cyzicus' wife heard that he was dead she died likewise of grief and her tears became a fountain of clear water , which flows the whole year round . 
And there they ran the ship ashore upon the yellow sand , and furled the sail , and took the mast down , and lashed it in its crutch . 
And next they let down the ladder , and went ashore to sport and rest . 
And Heracles sought for him in vain , shouting his name till all the mountains rang but Hylas never heard him , far down under the sparkling lake . 
'Because you have been a traitor , Phineus , the Harpies haunt you night and day . 
Then Phineus swore an oath to them , and drove out the wicked woman and Jason took those two poor children , and cured their eyes with magic herbs . 
At that all the heroes wept but the two young men sprang up , and aloft into the air after the Harpies , and the battle of the winds began . 
But those dark storms and whirlwinds haunt the Bosphorus until this day . 
But the Argonauts went eastward , and out into the open sea , which we now call the Black Sea , but it was called the Euxine then . 
And first Orpheus spoke , and warned them , 'We shall come now to the wandering blue rocks my mother warned me of them , Calliope , the immortal muse . 
And soon they saw the blue rocks shining like spires and castles of gray glass , while an ice cold wind blew from them and chilled all the heroes' hearts . 
And as they neared they could see them heaving , as they rolled upon the long sea waves , crashing and grinding together , till the roar went up to heaven . 
Then he cried , 'Hera has sent us a pilot let us follow the cunning bird . 
Then the heron flapped to and fro a moment , till he saw a hidden gap , and into it he rushed like an arrow , while the heroes watched what would befall . 
And the blue rocks clashed together as the bird fled swiftly through but they struck but a feather from his tail , and then rebounded apart at the shock . 
Then Tiphys cheered the heroes , and they shouted and the oars bent like withes beneath their strokes as they rushed between those toppling ice crags and the cold blue lips of death . 
And ere the rocks could meet again they had passed them , and were safe out in the open sea . 
And there died two brave heroes , Idmon and Tiphys the wise helmsman one died of an evil sickness , and one a wild boar slew . 
So the heroes heaped a mound above them , and set upon it an oar on high , and left them there to sleep together , on the far off Lycian shore . 
But Idas killed the boar , and avenged Tiphys and Ancaios took the rudder and was helmsman , and steered them on toward the east . 
And at day dawn they looked eastward , and midway between the sea and the sky they saw white snow peaks hanging , glittering sharp and bright above the clouds . 
And they knew that they were come to Caucasus , at the end of all the earth Caucasus the highest of all mountains , the father of the rivers of the East . 
On his peak lies chained the Titan , while a vulture tears his heart and at his feet are piled dark forests round the magic Colchian land . 
Better so than to go altogether , and to come to blows at once . 
But the Minuai would not stay behind , so they rowed boldly up the stream . 
And a dream came to Aietes , and filled his heart with fear . 
But Jason was the noblest of all for Hera , who loved him , gave him beauty and tallness and terrible manhood . 
But Hera the awful goddess put courage into Jason's heart , and he rose and shouted loudly in answer , 'We are no pirates nor lawless men . 
And these too , my bold comrades , they are no nameless men for some are the sons of Immortals , and some of heroes far renowned . 
But do you indeed expect to win from me the fleece in fight ? So few you are that if you be worsted I can load your ship with your corpses . 
But if you will be ruled by me , you will find it better far to choose the best man among you , and let him fulfil the labours which I demand . 
Then I will give him the golden fleece for a prize and a glory to you all . 
So saying , he turned his horses and drove back in silence to the town . 
And the Minuai sat silent with sorrow , and longed for Heracles and his strength for there was no facing the thousands of the Colchians and the fearful chance of war . 
And Medeia thought of Jason and his brave countenance , and said , 'If there was one among them who knew no fear , I could show him how to win the fleece . 
So in the dusk of evening they went down to the river side , Chalciope and Medeia the witch maiden , and Argus , Phrixus' son . 
And the boy came to Jason , and said 'I am the son of Phrixus , your Cousin and Chalciope my mother waits for you , to talk about the golden fleece . 
Then both the princesses besought him but Jason said , 'It is too late . 
'But you know not , said Medeia , 'what he must do who would win the fleece . 
'Unjustly is that fleece kept here , and by an unjust and lawless king and unjustly shall I die in my youth , for I will attempt it ere another sun be set . 
Then Medeia trembled , and said , 'No mortal man can reach that fleece unless I guide him through . 
And over the gateway sits Brimo , the wild witch huntress of the woods , brandishing a pine torch in her hands , while her mad hounds howl around . 
No man dare meet her or look on her , but only I her priestess , and she watches far and wide lest any stranger should come near . 
Anoint yourself with that , and you shall have in you seven men's strength and anoint your shield with it , and neither fire nor sword can harm you . 
But what you begin you must end before sunset , for its virtue lasts only one day . 
Then Jason fell on his knees before her , and thanked her and kissed her hands and she gave him the vase of ointment , and fled trembling through the reeds . 
And Jason told his comrades what had happened , and showed them the box of ointment and all rejoiced but Idas , and he grew mad with envy . 
'Fulfil your promise to us , child of the blazing Sun . 
Give us the serpents' teeth , and let loose the fiery bulls for we have found a champion among us who can win the golden fleece . 
And Aietes bit his lips , for he fancied that they had fled away by night but he could not go back from his promise so he gave them the serpents' teeth . 
Then he called for his chariot and his horses , and sent heralds through all the town and all the people went out with him to the dreadful War god's field . 
And there Aietes sat upon his throne , with his warriors on each hand , thousands and tens of thousands , clothed from head to foot in steel chain mail . 
And the people and the women crowded to every window and bank and wall while the Minuai stood together , a mere handful in the midst of that great host . 
And Chalciope was there and Argus , trembling , and Medeia , wrapped closely in her veil but Aietes did not know that she was muttering cunning spells between her lips . 
Then Jason cried , 'Fulfil your promise , and let your fiery bulls come forth . 
Then Aietes bade open the gates , and the magic bulls leapt out . 
Their brazen hoofs rang upon the ground , and their nostrils sent out sheets of flame , as they rushed with lowered heads upon Jason but he never flinched a step . 
The flame of their breath swept round him , but it singed not a hair of his head and the bulls stopped short and trembled when Medeia began her spell . 
So both the bulls were tamed and yoked and Jason bound them to the plough , and goaded them onward with his lance till he had ploughed the sacred field . 
And all the Minuai shouted but Aietes bit his lips with rage , for the half of Jason's work was over , and the sun was yet high in heaven . 
Then he took the serpents' teeth and sowed them , and waited what would befall . 
But Medeia looked at him and at his helmet , lest he should forget the lesson she had taught . 
And every furrow heaved and bubbled , and out of every clod arose a man . 
Then the Minuai grew pale with fear for him but Aietes laughed a bitter laugh . 
'See ! if I had not warriors enough already round me , I could call them out of the bosom of the earth . 
But Jason snatched off his helmet , and hurled it into the thickest of the throng . 
Then the magic furrows opened , and the kind earth took them home into her breast and the grass grew up all green again above them , and Jason's work was done . 
Then the Minuai rose and shouted , till Prometheus heard them from his crag . 
And Jason cried , 'Lead me to the fleece this moment , before the sun goes down . 
But Aietes thought , 'He has conquered the bulls , and sown and reaped the deadly crop . 
Who is this who is proof against all magic ? He may kill the serpent yet . 
So he delayed , and sat taking counsel with his princes till the sun went down and all was dark . 
Then he bade a herald cry , 'Every man to his home for to night . 
To morrow we will meet these heroes , and speak about the golden fleece . 
Then he turned and looked at Medeia . 
And Oileus said , 'Let us go to the grove together , and take the fleece by force . 
But Jason held them back , though he praised them for he hoped for Medeia's help . 
And after awhile Medeia came trembling , and wept a long while before she spoke . 
And at last 'My end is come , and I must die for my father has found out that I have helped you . 
You he would kill if he dared but he will not harm you , because you have been his guests . 
Go then , go , and remember poor Medeia when you are far away across the sea . 
'You need not die , said Jason . 
'Flee home with us across the sea . 
Show us first how to win the fleece for you can do it . 
And all the heroes pressed round , and vowed to her that she should be their queen . 
I will show you how to win the golden fleece . 
And Orpheus laughed for joy , and clapped his hands , because the choice had fallen on him for in those days poets and singers were as bold warriors as the best . 
So at midnight they went up the bank , and found Medeia and beside came Absyrtus her young brother , leading a yearling lamb . 
Then sprang up through the earth , with the red fire flashing before her , Brimo the wild witch huntress , while her mad hounds howled around . 
She had one head like a horse's , and another like a ravening hound's , and another like a hissing snake's , and a sword in either hand . 
And she leapt into the ditch with her hounds , and they ate and drank their fill , while Jason and Orpheus trembled , and Medeia hid her eyes . 
His coils stretched many a fathom , spangled with bronze and gold and half of him they could see , but no more , for the rest lay in the darkness far beyond . 
Then she made a sign to Orpheus , and he began his magic song . 
There was a silence for a moment , while Jason held the golden fleece on high . 
Then he cried , 'Go now , good ARGO , swift and steady , if ever you would see Pelion more . 
Then Orpheus took his harp and sang a paean , till the heroes' hearts rose high again and they rowed on stoutly and steadfastly , away into the darkness of the West . 
PART V HOW THE ARGONAUTS WERE DRIVEN INTO THE UNKNOWN SEA SO they fled away in haste to the westward but Aietes manned his fleet and followed them . 
And at that they rowed hard , like heroes but the ships came nearer every hour . 
And all the heroes shuddered , and looked one at the other for shame yet they did not punish that dark witch woman , because she had won for them the golden fleece . 
And when Aietes came to the place he saw the floating corpse and he stopped a long while , and bewailed his son , and took him up , and went home . 
But he sent on his sailors toward the westward , and bound them by a mighty curse 'Bring back to me that dark witch woman , that she may die a dreadful death . 
But if you return without her , you shall die by the same death yourselves . 
So the Argonauts escaped for that time but Father Zeus saw that foul crime and out of the heavens he sent a storm , and swept the ship far from her course . 
Day after day the storm drove her , amid foam and blinding mist , till they knew no longer where they were , for the sun was blotted from the skies . 
At that some of the heroes cried , 'Medeia is the murderess . 
Vengeance waits for her , slow and sure but she must live , for you need her still . 
She must show you the way to her sister Circe , who lives among the islands of the West . 
To her you must sail , a weary way , and she shall cleanse you from your guilt . 
Then all the heroes wept aloud when they heard the sentence of the oak for they knew that a dark journey lay before them , and years of bitter toil . 
And some upbraided the dark witch woman , and some said , 'Nay , we are her debtors still without her we should never have won the fleece . 
But most of them bit their lips in silence , for they feared the witch's spells . 
Whither they went I cannot tell , nor how they came to Circe's isle . 
stream , and so came into the Adriatic , dragging their ship over the snowy Alps . 
But all these are but dreams and fables , and dim hints of unknown lands . 
But all say that they came to a place where they had to drag their ship across the land nine days with ropes and rollers , till they came into an unknown sea . 
where the Titan swam across upon the bull and thence into the lazy waters of the still Maeotid lake . 
So raise up the mast , and set the sail , and face what comes like men . 
And now some dark horror will clutch me , if I come near the Isle of Ierne . 
Unless you will cling to the land , and sail southward and southward for ever , I shall wander beyond the Atlantic , to the ocean which has no shore . 
Then they blest the magic bough , and sailed southward along the land . 
But ere they could pass Ierne , the land of mists and storms , the wild wind came down , dark and roaring , and caught the sail , and strained the ropes . 
And away they drove twelve nights , on the wide wild western sea , through the foam , and over the rollers , while they saw neither sun nor stars . 
And they cried again , 'We shall perish , for we know not where we are . 
We are lost in the dreary damp darkness , and cannot tell north from south . 
But Orpheus said , 'Turn from them , for no living man can land there there is no harbour on the coast , but steep walled cliffs all round . 
So Ancaios turned the ship away and for three days more they sailed on , till they came to Aiaia , Circe's home , and the fairy island of the West . 
And there Jason bid them land , and seek about for any sign of living man . 
And she came and looked at Medeia and Medeia hid her face beneath her veil . 
I will send you food and wine but your ship must not stay here , for it is foul with sin , and foul with sin its crew . 
Then a fair wind rose , and they sailed eastward by Tartessus on the Iberian shore , till they came to the Pillars of Hercules , and the Mediterranean Sea . 
And as they neared it , slowly and wearily , they heard sweet songs upon the shore . 
But when Medeia heard it , she started , and cried , 'Beware , all heroes , for these are the rocks of the Sirens . 
You must pass close by them , for there is no other channel but those who listen to that song are lost . 
Then Orpheus spoke , the king of all minstrels , 'Let them match their song against mine . 
The Wind overhead hushed his whistling , as he shepherded his clouds toward the west and the clouds stood in mid blue , and listened dreaming , like a flock of golden sheep . 
Then one lifted his head suddenly , and cried , 'What use in wandering for ever ? Let us stay here and rest awhile . 
And another , 'Let us row to the shore , and hear the words they sing . 
And another , 'I care not for the words , but for the music . 
They shall sing me to sleep , that I may rest . 
So Orpheus sang , and the Sirens , answering each other across the golden sea , till Orpheus' voice drowned the Sirens' , and the heroes caught their oars again . 
And they cried , 'We will be men like Perseus , and we will dare and suffer to the last . 
Sing us his song again , brave Orpheus , that we may forget the Sirens and their spell . 
And she lifted Butes as he lay sleeping , and wrapt him in golden mist and she bore him to the peak of Lilybaeum , and he slept there many a pleasant year . 
And when Orpheus saw it he groaned , and struck his hands together . 
And from her cave she fishes for all things which pass by for sharks , and seals , and dolphins , and all the herds of Amphitrite . 
And never ship's crew boasted that they came safe by her rock , for she bends her long necks down to them , and every mouth takes up a man . 
And who will help us now ? For Hera and Zeus hate us , and our ship is foul with guilt so we must die , whatever befalls . 
And they caught the ship , and guided her , and passed her on from hand to hand , and tossed her through the billows , as maidens toss the ball . 
And when Scylla stooped to seize her , they struck back her ravening heads , and foul Scylla whined , as a whelp whines , at the touch of their gentle hands . 
But she shrank into her cave affrighted for all bad things shrink from good and ARGO leapt safe past her , while a fair breeze rose behind . 
After that they rowed on steadily for many a weary day , till they saw a long high island , and beyond it a mountain land . 
And they searched till they found a harbour , and there rowed boldly in . 
And on either side they saw a harbour , with a narrow mouth , but wide within and black ships without number , high and dry upon the shore . 
But whence come these new harbours and vast works of polished stone ? But Jason said , 'They can be no savage people . 
We will go in and take our chance . 
So they rowed into the harbour , among a thousand black beaked ships , each larger far than ARGO , toward a quay of polished stone . 
And they wondered at that mighty city , with its roofs of burnished brass , and long and lofty walls of marble , with strong palisades above . 
And the quays were full of people , merchants , and mariners , and slaves , going to and fro with merchandise among the crowd of ships . 
Then the sailors hailed them roughly from the quay , 'What men are you ? we want no strangers here , nor pirates . 
We keep our business to ourselves . 
But Jason answered gently , with many a flattering word , and praised their city and their harbour , and their fleet of gallant ships . 
'Surely you are the children of Poseidon , and the masters of the sea and we are but poor wandering mariners , worn out with thirst and toil . 
Give us but food and water , and we will go on our voyage in peace . 
Then the sailors laughed , and answered , 'Stranger , you are no fool you talk like an honest man , and you shall find us honest too . 
We are the children of Poseidon , and the masters of the sea but come ashore to us , and you shall have the best that we can give . 
And one said , 'These fellows are but raw sailors they look as if they had been sea sick all the day . 
And another , 'Their legs have grown crooked with much rowing , till they waddle in their walk like ducks . 
At that Idas the rash would have struck them but Jason held him back , till one of the merchant kings spoke to them , a tall and stately man . 
'Do not be angry , strangers the sailor boys must have their jest . 
But we will treat you justly and kindly , for strangers and poor men come from God and you seem no common sailors by your strength , and height , and weapons . 
Come up with me to the palace of Alcinous , the rich sea going king , and we will feast you well and heartily and after that you shall tell us your name . 
'It is too late to turn , said Jason . 
Hither we came from Liburnia to escape the unrighteous Cyclopes for they robbed us , peaceful merchants , of our hard earned wares and wealth . 
So Nausithous , the son of Poseidon , brought us hither , and died in peace and now his son Alcinous rules us , and Arete the wisest of queens . 
And round the square worked the ship wrights , as many in number as ants , twining ropes , and hewing timber , and smoothing long yards and oars . 
And the Minuai went on in silence through clean white marble streets , till they came to the hall of Alcinous , and they wondered then still more . 
For the lofty palace shone aloft in the sun , with walls of plated brass , from the threshold to the innermost chamber , and the doors were of silver and gold . 
And boys of molten gold stood each on a polished altar , and held torches in their hands , to give light all night to the guests . 
For the rich south west wind fed them , till pear grew ripe on pear , fig on fig , and grape on grape , all the winter and the spring . 
Such noble gifts the heavens had given to Alcinous the wise . 
Then Alcinous rose , and welcomed them , and bade them sit and eat and the servants brought them tables , and bread , and meat , and wine . 
Do not send me back to my father to die some dreadful death but let me go my way , and bear my burden . 
We are the men who took the golden fleece , the men whose fame has run round every shore . 
We came hither out of the ocean , after sorrows such as man never saw before . 
We went out many , and come back few , for many a noble comrade have we lost . 
So let us go , as you should let your guests go , in peace that the world may say , Alcinous is a just king . 
'Let them choose out their champions , and we will fight them , man for man . 
'No guests of ours shall fight upon our island , and if you go outside they will outnumber you . 
I will do justice between you , for I know and do what is right . 
Then he turned to his kings , and said , 'This may stand over till to morrow . 
To night we will feast our guests , and hear the story of all their wanderings , and how they came hither out of the ocean . 
So Alcinous bade the servants take the heroes in , and bathe them , and give them clothes . 
And they were glad when they saw the warm water , for it was long since they had bathed . 
And they washed off the sea salt from their limbs , and anointed themselves from head to foot with oil , and combed out their golden hair . 
Then they came back again into the hall , while the merchant kings rose up to do them honour . 
And each man said to his neighbour , 'No wonder that these men won fame . 
How they stand now like Giants , or Titans , or Immortals come down from Olympus , though many a winter has worn them , and many a fearful storm . 
Let us see whose feet are nimblest . 
'We cannot race against you , for our limbs are stiff from sea and we have lost our two swift comrades , the sons of the north wind . 
But do not think us cowards if you wish to try our strength , we will shoot , and box , and wrestle , against any men on earth . 
And Alcinous smiled , and answered , 'I believe you , gallant guests with your long limbs and broad shoulders , we could never match you here . 
So they danced there and ran races , the jolly merchant kings , till the night fell , and all went in . 
And then they ate and drank , and comforted their weary souls , till Alcinous called a herald , and bade him go and fetch the harper . 
So the harper played and sang , while the dancers danced strange figures and after that the tumblers showed their tricks , till the heroes laughed again . 
'Sing to us , then , noble stranger , said Alcinous 'and we will give you precious gifts . 
Each man sat still and listened , with his chin upon his hand . 
But Arete pleaded hard with her husband for Medeia , for her heart was softened . 
And she said , 'The Gods will punish her , not we . 
After all , she is our guest and my suppliant , and prayers are the daughters of Zeus . 
And who , too , dare part man and wife , after all they have endured together ? And Alcinous smiled . 
'The minstrel's song has charmed you but I must remember what is right , for songs cannot alter justice and I must be faithful to my name . 
Alcinous I am called , the man of sturdy sense and Alcinous I will be . 
But for all that Arete besought him , until she won him round . 
So next morning he sent a herald , and called the kings into the square , and said , 'This is a puzzling matter remember but one thing . 
These Minuai live close by us , and we may meet them often on the seas but Aietes lives afar off , and we have only heard his name . 
'What say you to this , Jason the AEolid ? said Alcinous , turning to the Minuai . 
'I say , said the cunning Jason , 'that they are come here on a bootless errand . 
Better to settle there , and build a city , and let Aietes and Colchis help themselves . 
Take her , since you are no wiser and we will sail away toward the north . 
So Jason kept the dark witch maiden to breed him woe and shame and the Colchi went northward into the Adriatic , and settled , and built towns along the shore . 
Then the heroes rowed away to the eastward , to reach Hellas , their beloved land but a storm came down upon them , and swept them far away toward the south . 
And there they wandered starving for many a weary day , ere they could launch their ship again , and gain the open sea . 
And there Canthus was killed , while he was trying to drive off sheep , by a stone which a herdsman threw . 
But when they came nearer to the island they saw a wondrous sight upon the cliffs . 
For on a cape to the westward stood a giant , taller than any mountain pine , who glittered aloft against the sky like a tower of burnished brass . 
Then the heroes cried , 'We are no pirates . 
Then he waved his arms again as a signal , and they saw the people flying inland , driving their flocks before them , while a great flame arose among the hills . 
Then the giant ran up a valley and vanished , and the heroes lay on their oars in fear . 
But Medeia stood watching all from under her steep black brows , with a cunning smile upon her lips , and a cunning plot within her heart . 
At last she spoke , 'I know this giant . 
I heard of him in the East . 
Then all the heroes cried , 'What shall we do , wise Medeia ? We must have water , or we die of thirst . 
Flesh and blood we can face fairly but who can face this red hot brass ? 'I can face red hot brass , if the tale I hear be true . 
But if I can get it once into these hands , you shall water your ship here in peace . 
Then she bade them put her on shore , and row off again , and wait what would befall . 
The brass must rust , the fire must cool , for time gnaws all things in their turn . 
I am Medeia the enchantress my sister Circe gave me this , and said , Go and reward Talus , the faithful servant , for his fame is gone out into all lands . 
So come , and I will pour this into your veins , that you may live for ever young . 
Then that simple Talus dipped himself in the sea , till it hissed , and roared , and smoked and came and knelt before Medeia , and showed her the secret nail . 
And she drew the nail out gently , but she poured no ichor in and instead the liquid fire spouted forth , like a stream of red hot iron . 
At last , after many more adventures , they came to the Cape of Malea , at the south west point of the Peloponnese . 
And there they offered sacrifices , and Orpheus purged them from their guilt . 
We went to fetch the golden fleece , and we have brought it , and grief therewith . 
Give us news of our fathers and our mothers , if any of them be left alive on earth . 
Then Jason went up with Medeia to the palace of his uncle Pelias . 
And Jason fell down at his father's knees , and wept , and called him by his name . 
And the old man stretched his hands out , and felt him , and said , 'Do not mock me , young hero . 
My son Jason is dead long ago at sea . 
So now give me up the kingdom , Pelias my uncle , and fulfil your promise as I have fulfilled mine . 
Then his father clung to him like a child , and wept , and would not let him go and cried , 'Now I shall not go down lonely to my grave . 
Promise me never to leave me till I die . 
PART VI WHAT WAS THE END OF THE HEROES AND now I wish that I could end my story pleasantly but it is no fault of mine that I cannot . 
And first she laid a cunning plot to punish that poor old Pelias , instead of letting him die in peace . 
For she told his daughters , 'I can make old things young again I will show you how easy it is to do . 
Then she said to Pelias' daughters , 'Do to your father as I did to this ram , and he will grow young and strong again . 
But she only told them half the spell so they failed , while Medeia mocked them and poor old Pelias died , and his daughters came to misery . 
But the songs say she cured AEson , Jason's father , and he became young , and strong again . 
But Jason could not love her , after all her cruel deeds . 
So he was ungrateful to her , and wronged her and she revenged herself on him . 
And a terrible revenge she took too terrible to speak of here . 
For if we use an adder even against our enemies , it will turn again and sting us . 
And what became of Cheiron , the good immortal beast ? That , too , is a sad story for the heroes never saw him more . 
He was wounded by a poisoned arrow , at Pholoe among the hills , when Heracles opened the fatal wine jar , which Cheiron had warned him not to touch . 
And the Centaurs smelt the wine , and flocked to it , and fought for it with Heracles but he killed them all with his poisoned arrows , and Cheiron was left alone . 
So Cheiron gave him his immortality , and died , and had rest from pain . 
And in time the heroes died , all but Nestor , the silver tongued old man and left behind them valiant sons , but not so great as they had been . 
We will read that sweet story , children , by the fire some winter night . 
And now I will end my tale , and begin another and a more cheerful one , of a hero who became a worthy king , and won his people's love . 
THESEUS PART I HOW THESEUS LIFTED THE STONE ONCE upon a time there was a princess in Troezene , Aithra , the daughter of Pittheus the king . 
And when Theseus was full fifteen years old she took him up with her to the temple , and into the thickets of the grove which grew in the temple yard . 
And she led him to a tall plane tree , beneath whose shade grew arbutus , and lentisk , and purple heather bushes . 
Then Theseus pushed his way in through the thick bushes , and saw that they had not been moved for many a year . 
And searching among their roots he found a great flat stone , all overgrown with ivy , and acanthus , and moss . 
He tried to lift it , but he could not . 
And he tried till the sweat ran down his brow from heat , and the tears from his eyes for shame but all was of no avail . 
Then she sighed , and said , 'The Gods wait long but they are just at last . 
Let it be for another year . 
The day may come when you will be a stronger man than lives in all Troezene . 
Then she took him by the hand , and went into the temple and prayed , and came down again with Theseus to her home . 
And when a full year was past she led Theseus up again to the temple , and bade him lift the stone but he could not . 
So he said to himself , 'The day shall surely come when I will lift that stone , though no man in Troezene can . 
And Theseus went into the thicket , and stood over the stone , and tugged at it and it moved . 
Then his spirit swelled within him , and he said , 'If I break my heart in my body , it shall up . 
And he tugged at it once more , and lifted it , and rolled it over with a shout . 
But when she saw them she wept long in silence , hiding her fair face in her shawl and Theseus stood by her wondering , and wept also , he knew not why . 
And she said , 'It is but a little land , barren and rocky , and looks towards the bleak north east . 
Do you see that land beyond ? 'Yes that is Attica , where the Athenian people dwell . 
'That is a fair land and large , Theseus my son and it looks toward the sunny south a land of olive oil and honey , the joy of Gods and men . 
But Athens itself he could not see , for purple AEgina stood before it , midway across the sea . 
But Theseus wept , 'Shall I leave you , O my mother ? But she answered , 'Weep not for me . 
That which is fated must be and grief is easy to those who do nought but grieve . 
Full of sorrow was my youth , and full of sorrow my womanhood . 
Yet beyond that I see new sorrows but I can bear them as I have borne the past . 
Then she kissed Theseus , and wept over him and went into the temple , and Theseus saw her no more . 
PART II HOW THESEUS SLEW THE DEVOURERS OF MEN SO Theseus stood there alone , with his mind full of many hopes . 
Perhaps there I may hear of brave adventures , and do something which shall win my father's love . 
And he went up into the gloomy glens , between the furrowed marble walls , till the lowland grew blue beneath his feet and the clouds drove damp about his head . 
But over that down he must go , for there was no road right or left so he toiled on through bog and brake , till he came to a pile of stones . 
And on the stones a man was sitting , wrapt in a bearskin cloak . 
And when he saw Theseus he rose , and laughed till the glens rattled . 
But men call me Corynetes the club bearer and here is my spider's fang . 
And he lifted from off the stones at his side a mighty club of bronze . 
'This my father gave me , and forged it himself in the roots of the mountain and with it I pound all proud flies till they give out their fatness and their sweetness . 
So give me up that gay sword of yours , and your mantle , and your golden sandals , lest I pound you , and by ill luck you die . 
And by the side of a pleasant fountain , under the shade of rocks and trees , were nymphs and shepherds dancing but no one piped to them while they danced . 
And when they saw Theseus they shrieked and the shepherds ran off , and drove away their flocks , while the nymphs dived into the fountain like coots , and vanished . 
And one said , 'Surely he is not Periphetes and another , 'He looks like no robber , but a fair and gentle youth . 
Then Theseus smiled , and called them , 'Fair nymphs , I am not Periphetes . 
He sleeps among the kites and crows but I have brought away his bearskin and his club . 
Then they leapt across the pool , and came to him , and called the shepherds back . 
And when he woke , they begged him to stay but he would not . 
'I have a great work to do , he said 'I must be away toward the Isthmus , that I may go to Athens . 
But the shepherds said , 'Will you go alone toward Athens ? None travel that way now , except in armed troops . 
'As for arms , I have enough , as you see . 
And as for troops , an honest man is good enough company for himself . 
And before Theseus could answer , another cried , 'And after that is a worse danger still , unless you go inland always , and leave Eleusis far on your right . 
For in Eleusis rules Kerkuon the cruel king , the terror of all mortals , who killed his own daughter Alope in prison . 
But she was changed into a fair fountain and her child he cast out upon the mountains , but the wild mares gave it milk . 
Then Theseus frowned , and said , 'This seems indeed an ill ruled land , and adventures enough in it to be tried . 
But if I am the heir of it , I will rule it and right it , and here is my royal sceptre . 
And he shook his club of bronze , while the nymphs and shepherds clung round him , and entreated him not to go . 
But on he went nevertheless , till he could see both the seas and the citadel of Corinth towering high above all the land . 
And he rushed on Theseus , lifting his club , and Theseus rushed upon him . 
Then they hammered together till the greenwoods rang but the metal was tougher than the pine , and Sinis' club broke right across , as the bronze came down upon it . 
And there he saw Sciron sitting by a fountain , at the edge of the cliff . 
On his knees was a mighty club and he had barred the path with stones , so that every one must stop who came up . 
And he stood before his barrier , and lifted up his club in both hands . 
And Sciron cried panting , 'Loose me , and I will let thee pass . 
Then Theseus lifted him up all bruised , and said , 'Come hither and wash my feet . 
And he drew his sword , and sat down by the well , and said , 'Wash my feet , or I cut you piecemeal . 
And Sciron washed his feet trembling and when it was done , Theseus rose , and cried , 'As thou hast done to others , so shall it be done to thee . 
Go feed thy tortoise thyself and he kicked him over the cliff into the sea . 
And whether the tortoise ate him , I know not for some say that earth and sea both disdained to take his body , so foul it was with sin . 
So he went all day until the evening , till he saw the Thriasian plain , and the sacred city of Eleusis , where the Earth mother's temple stands . 
For there she met Triptolemus , when all the land lay waste , Demeter the kind Earth mother , and in her hands a sheaf of corn . 
So at Eleusis all men honour her , whosoever tills the land her and Triptolemus her beloved , who gave corn to labouring men . 
And there he saw Kerkuon sitting at the table in the hall alone and before him was a whole sheep roasted , and beside him a whole jar of wine . 
At last , when the sheep was eaten and the jar of wine drained dry , King Kerkuon rose , and cried , 'Let us wrestle a fall before we sleep . 
So they tossed off all their garments , and went forth in the palace yard and Kerkuon bade strew fresh sand in an open space between the bones . 
And there the heroes stood face to face , while their eyes glared like wild bulls' and all the people crowded at the gates to see what would befall . 
And there they stood and wrestled , till the stars shone out above their heads up and down and round , till the sand was stamped hard beneath their feet . 
But at last Kerkuon grew angry , and caught Theseus round the neck , and shook him as a mastiff shakes a rat but he could not shake him off his feet . 
Then Theseus opened the gates , and called in all the people and they cried , 'You have slain our evil king be you now our king , and rule us well . 
'Then I have slain my own kinsman , said Theseus , 'though well he deserved to die . 
Thither you shall go and be purified , and after you shall be our king . 
And as he was skirting the Vale of Cephisus , along the foot of lofty Parnes , a very tall and strong man came down to meet him , dressed in rich garments . 
Come up to my castle , and rest yourself awhile . 
'I give you thanks , said Theseus 'but I am in haste to go up the valley , and to reach Aphidnai in the Vale of Cephisus . 
For whatsoever the stature of my guest , however tall or short , that bed fits him to a hair , and he sleeps on it as he never slept before . 
And he laid hold on Theseus' hands , and would not let him go . 
But he consented , and went with the man up a glen which led from the road toward the peaks of Parnes , under the dark shadow of the cliffs . 
And as they went up , the glen grew narrower , and the cliffs higher and darker , and beneath them a torrent roared , half seen between bare limestone crags . 
And he asked at last , 'Your castle stands , it seems , in a dreary region . 
'Yes but once within it , hospitality makes all things cheerful . 
'Ah , poor souls ! said the stranger . 
'Well for them that I looked back and saw them ! And well for me too , for I shall have the more guests at my feast . 
Wait awhile till I go down and call them , and we will eat and drink together the livelong night . 
But as he went up he met an aged man , who had been gathering driftwood in the torrent bed . 
He had laid down his faggot in the road , and was trying to lift it again to his shoulder . 
And when he saw Theseus , he called to him , and said 'O fair youth , help me up with my burden , for my limbs are stiff and weak with years . 
Then Theseus lifted the burden on his back . 
is a robber and a murderer of men . 
'Why ? asked Theseus , astonished . 
And once I was a wealthy merchant , and dwelt in brazen gated Thebes but now I hew wood and draw water for him , the torment of all mortal men . 
Then Theseus said nothing but he ground his teeth together . 
'Escape , then , said the old man , 'for he will have no pity on thy youth . 
And therefore he is called Procrustes the stretcher , though his father called him Damastes . 
Flee from him yet whither will you flee ? The cliffs are steep , and who can climb them ? and there is no other road . 
But Theseus laid his hand upon the old man's month , and said , 'There is no need to flee and he turned to go down the pass . 
'Is this true , my host , or is it false ? But Procrustes answered never a word . 
Then Theseus flung him from him , and lifted up his dreadful club and before Procrustes could strike him he had struck , and felled him to the ground . 
And once again he struck him and his evil soul fled forth , and went down to Hades squeaking , like a bat into the darkness of a cave . 
Then Theseus stript him of his gold ornaments , and went up to his house , and found there great wealth and treasure , which he had stolen from the passers by . 
And he called the people of the country , whom Procrustes had spoiled a long time , and parted the spoil among them , and went down the mountains , and away . 
So Theseus went up through Athens , and all the people ran out to see him for his fame had gone before him and every one knew of his mighty deeds . 
And all cried , 'Here comes the hero who slew Sinis , and Phaia the wild sow of Crommyon , and conquered Kerkuon in wrestling , and slew Procrustes the pitiless . 
And there he saw his cousins sitting about the table at the wine many a son of Pallas , but no AEgeus among them . 
There they sat and feasted , and laughed , and passed the wine cup round while harpers harped , and slave girls sang , and the tumblers showed their tricks . 
'Then take it , and welcome . 
You look like a hero and a bold warrior and we like such to drink with us . 
'I ask no hospitality of you I ask it of AEgeus the king , the master of this house . 
At that some growled , and some laughed , and shouted , 'Heyday ! we are all masters here . 
But each man's neighbour whispered in return , 'His shoulders are broad will you rise and put him out ? So they all sat still where they were . 
Then Theseus called to the servants , and said , 'Go tell King AEgeus , your master , that Theseus of Troezene is here , and asks to be his guest awhile . 
A servant ran and told AEgeus , where he sat in his chamber within , by Medeia the dark witch woman , watching her eye and hand . 
And when AEgeus heard of Troezene he turned pale and red again , and rose from his seat trembling , while Medeia watched him like a snake . 
'What is Troezene to you ? she asked . 
I must go out and welcome him . 
'All I ask , said Theseus , 'is to eat and drink at your table . 
'That I can give you , said AEgeus , 'if at least I am master in my own hall . 
But Medeia the dark witch woman had been watching him all the while . 
She saw how AEgeus turned red and pale when the lad said that he came from Troezene . 
She saw , too , how his heart was opened toward Theseus and how Theseus bore himself before all the sons of Pallas , like a lion among a pack of curs . 
And she said to herself , 'This youth will be master here perhaps he is nearer to AEgeus already than mere fancy . 
At least the Pallantilds will have no chance by the side of such as he . 
Drink of my cup , for in it sparkles the wine of the East , and Nepenthe , the comfort of the Immortals . 
And as she spoke , she poured the flask into the cup and the fragrance of the wine spread through the hall , like the scent of thyme and roses . 
And Theseus looked up in her fair face and into her deep dark eyes . 
And as he looked , he shrank and shuddered for they were dry like the eyes of a snake . 
Then Medeia turned pale , and stammered , 'Forgive me , fair hero but I am ill , and dare drink no wine . 
And Theseus looked again into her eyes , and cried , 'Thou shalt pledge me in that cup , or die . 
And he lifted up his brazen club , while all the guests looked on aghast . 
But Medeia called her dragon chariot , and sprang into it and fled aloft , away over land and sea , and no man saw her more . 
And AEgeus cried , 'What hast thou done ? But Theseus pointed to the stone , 'I have rid the land of an enchantment now I will rid it of one more . 
And he came close to AEgeus , and drew from his bosom the sword and the sandals , and said the words which his mother bade him . 
Then AEgeus turned to all the people , and cried , 'Behold my son , children of Cecrops , a better man than his father was before him . 
And he cried , 'Go in peace , if you will , my cousins but if not , your blood be on your own heads . 
But they rushed at him and then stopped short and railed him , as curs stop and bark when they rouse a lion from his lair . 
But one hurled a lance from the rear rank , which past close by Theseus' head and at that Theseus rushed forward , and the fight began indeed . 
Then he went to his father , and asked him but AEgeus turned away his face and wept . 
'Do not ask , my son , beforehand , about evils which must happen it is enough to have to face them when they come . 
And you must be surely a stranger here , or you would know why I come , and that I come by right . 
'I am a stranger here . 
Tell me , then , why you come . 
'To fetch the tribute which King AEgeus promised to Minos , and confirmed his promise with an oath . 
For Minos conquered all this land , and Megara which lies to the east , when he came hither with a great fleet of ships , enraged about the murder of his son . 
For his son Androgeos came hither to the Panathenaic games , and overcame all the Greeks in the sports , so that the people honoured him as a hero . 
But when AEgeus saw his valour , he envied him , and feared lest he should join the sons of Pallas , and take away the sceptre from him . 
So he plotted against his life , and slew him basely , no man knows how or where . 
But AEgeus says that the young men killed him from envy , because he had conquered them in the games . 
Break not my heart by questions it is enough to endure in silence . 
Then Theseus groaned inwardly , and said , 'I will go myself with these youths and maidens , and kill Minos upon his royal throne . 
From that labyrinth no one can escape , entangled in its winding ways , before they meet the Minotaur , the monster who feeds upon the flesh of men . 
There he devours them horribly , and they never see this land again . 
Then Theseus grew red , and his ears tingled , and his heart beat loud in his bosom . 
, and hoist instead a white sail , that I may know afar off that you are safe . 
I myself will be one of the seven . 
And the herald asked in wonder , 'Fair youth , know you whither you are going ? And Theseus said , 'I know . 
Let us go down to the black sailed ship . 
So they went down to the black sailed ship , seven maidens , and seven youths , and Theseus before them all , and the people following them lamenting . 
But Theseus whispered to his companions , 'Have hope , for the monster is not immortal . 
And he sat among the pillars of the hall , upon his throne of beaten gold , and around him stood the speaking statues which Daidalos had made by his skill . 
, and changed him into a partridge , which flits for ever about the hills . 
And Daidalos fled to Crete , to Minos , and worked for him many a year , till he did a shameful deed , at which the sun hid his face on high . 
Then he fled from the anger of Minos , he and Icaros his son having made themselves wings of feathers , and fixed the feathers with wax . 
So they flew over the sea toward Sicily but Icaros flew too near the sun and the wax of his wings was melted , and he fell into the Icarian Sea . 
And for Minos he made statues which spoke and moved , and the temple of Britomartis , and the dancing hall of Ariadne , which he carved of fair white stone . 
And in Sardinia he worked for I laos , and in many a land beside , wandering up and down for ever with his cunning , unlovely and accursed by men . 
But Theseus stood before Minos , and they looked each other in the face . 
And Minos bade take them to prison , and cast them to the monster one by one , that the death of Androgeos might be avenged . 
Then Theseus cried 'A boon , O Minos ! Let me be thrown first to the beast . 
For I came hither for that very purpose , of my own will , and not by lot . 
It is a pity that one so brave should die . 
But Theseus said , 'I have sworn that I will not go back till I have seen the monster face to face . 
And at that Minos frowned , and said , 'Then thou shalt see him take the madman away . 
And they led Theseus away into the prison , with the other youths and maids . 
'And will you kill the Minotaur ? How , then ? 'I know not , nor do I care but he must be strong if he be too strong for me . 
Then she loved him all the more , and said 'Fair youth , you are too bold but I can help you , weak as I am . 
Only promise me that if you escape safe you will take me home with you to Greece for my father will surely kill me , if he knows what I have done . 
And when the evening came , the guards came in and led him away to the labyrinth . 
And he went down into that doleful gulf , through winding paths among the rocks , under caverns , and arches , and galleries , and over heaps of fallen stone . 
And he turned on the left hand , and on the right hand , and went up and down , till his head was dizzy but all the while he held his clue . 
And when he saw him he stopped awhile , for he had never seen so strange a beast . 
His body was a man's but his head was the head of a bull and his teeth were the teeth of a lion , and with them he tore his prey . 
And when he saw Theseus he roared , and put his head down , and rushed right at him . 
And Theseus followed him at full speed , holding the clue of thread in his left hand . 
PART IV HOW THESEUS FELL BY HIS PRIDE BUT that fair Ariadne never came to Athens with her husband . 
Now AEgeus his father sat and watched on Sunium day after day , and strained his old eyes across the sea to see the ship afar . 
And now Theseus was king of Athens , and he guarded it and ruled it well . 
But Theseus stopped them there , and conquered them , and took Hippolute their queen to be his wife . 
were found in Scuros , an isle beyond the sea and they were bigger than the bones of mortal man . 
And one thing worst of all he did , which brought him to his grave with sorrow . 
with that bold Peirithoos his friend to help him to carry off Persephone , the queen of the world below . 
But Peirithoos was killed miserably , in the dark fire kingdoms under ground and Theseus was chained to a rock in everlasting pain . 
And there he sat for years , till Heracles the mighty came down to bring up the three headed dog who sits at Pluto's gate . 
So Heracles loosed him from his chain , and brought him up to the light once more . 
So the fair land of Athens was wasted , and another king ruled it , who drove out Theseus shamefully , and he fled across the sea to Scuros . 
And there he lived in sadness , in the house of Lucomedes the king , till Lucomedes killed him by treachery , and there was an end of all his labours . 
So it is still , my children , and so it will be to the end . 
In those old Greeks , and in us also , all strength and virtue come from God . 
Between the Crimaea and Circassia . 
