Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com GINX'S BABY His Birth and other Misfortunes A SATIRE by Edward Jenkins ? ? ? ? PREFACE . 
I never read a more improbable story in my life . 
Notwithstanding , it may be true . 
PART I. WHAT GINX DID WITH HIM . 
Home , sweet Home ! III . 
Digressive , and may be skipped without mutilating the History V. Reasons and Resolves VI . 
The Antagonism of Law and Necessity VII . 
The Baby's First Translation PART II . 
WHAT CHARITY AND THE CHURCHES DID WITH HIM . 
I. The Milk of Human Kindness , Mother's Milk , and the Milk of the Word II . 
The Protestant Detectoral Association III . 
The Sacrament of Baptism IV . 
Law on Behalf of Gospel V. Magistrate's Law VI . 
Popery and Protestantism in the Queen's Bench VII . 
A Protestor , but not a Protestant VIII . 
See how these Christians love one another IX . 
Good Samaritans , and Good Samaritan Twopences X. The Force and a Specimen of its Weakness XI . 
The Unity of the Spirit and the Bond of Peace XII . 
No Funds no Faith , no Works XIII . 
WHAT THE PARISH DID WITH HIM . 
I. Parochial Knots to be untied without Prejudice II . 
A Board of Guardians III . 
The World is my Parish IV . 
Without Prejudice to any one but the Guardians V. An Ungodly Jungle VI . 
Parochial Benevolence and another Translation PART IV . 
WHAT THE CLUBS AND POLITICIANS DID WITH HIM . 
A thorough paced Reformer if not a Revolutionary IV . 
Very Broad Views V. Party Tactics and Political Obstructions to Social Reform VI . 
Amateur Debating in a High Legislative Body PART V. WHAT GINX'S BABY DID WITH HIMSELF . 
The Last Chapter PART I. WHAT GINX DID WITH HIM . 
The name of the father of Ginx's Baby was Ginx . 
By a not unexceptional coincidence , its mother was Mrs. Ginx . 
The gender of Ginx's Baby was masculine . 
On the day when our hero was born , Mr. and Mrs. Ginx were living at Number Five , Rosemary Street , in the City of Westminster . 
The being then and there brought into the world was not the only human entity to which the title of Ginx's Baby was or had been appropriate . 
Ginx had been married to Betsy Hicks at St . 
John's , Westminster , on the twenty fifth day of October , , as appears from the marriage lines retained by Betsy Ginx , and carefully collated by me with the original register . 
Our hero was their thirteenth child . 
Patient inquiry has enabled me to verify the following history of their propagations . 
On July the twenty fifth , the year after their marriage , Mrs. Ginx was safely delivered of a girl . 
No announcement of this appeared in the newspapers . 
The news penetrated to Dean's Yard and the ancient school of Westminster . 
This time two sons and two daughters fell to the lot of the happy pair . 
Her Majesty sent four pounds . 
But whatever peace there was at home , broils disturbed the street . 
Home , sweet Home ! The day on which Ginx uttered his awful threat was that next to the one wherein number twelve had drawn his first breath . 
His wife lay on the bed which , at the outset of wedded life , they had purchased secondhand in Strutton Ground for the sum of nine shillings and sixpence . 
SECOND HAND ! It had passed through , at least , as many hands as there were afterwards babies born upon it . 
Twelfth or thirteenth hand , a vagabond , botched bedstead , type of all the furniture in Ginx's rooms , and in numberless houses through the vast city . 
Its dimensions were feet inches by feet . 
Without foot board or pillows , the lodgment of these infants was precarious , since any fatuous movement of Ginx's legs was likely to expel them head first . 
However they were safe , for they were sure to fall on one or other of their brothers or sisters . 
I shall be as particular as a valuer , and describe what I have seen . 
The family sleeping room measured feet inches by feet . 
Opening out of this , and again on the landing of the third floor , was their kitchen and sitting room it was not quite so large as the other . 
This room contained a press , an old chest of drawers , a wooden box once used for navvy's tools , three chairs , a stool , and some cooking utensils . 
For them an old straw mattress , limp enough to be rolled up and thrust under the bed , was at night extended on the floor . 
With this , and a patchwork quilt , the five were left to pack themselves together as best they could . 
Not to be described are the dinginess of the walls , the smokiness of the ceilings , the grimy windows , the heavy , ever murky atmosphere of these rooms . 
They were feet inches in height , and any curious statist can calculate the number of cubic feet of air which they afforded to each person . 
The other side of the street was feet distant . 
Behind , the backs of similar tenements came up black and cowering over the little yard of Number Five . 
As rare , in the well thus formed , was the circulation of air as that of coin in the pockets of the inhabitants . 
I have seen the yard let me warn you , if you are fastidious , not to enter it . 
Such of the filth of the house as could not , at night , be thrown out of the front windows , was there collected , and seldom , if ever , removed . 
It had once been capped by a cistern , long since rotted away The street was at one time the prey of the gas company at another , of the drainage contractors . 
One needs not affirm that Rosemary Street was not so called from its fragrance . 
If the Ginxes and their neighbors preserved any semblance of health in this place , the most popular guardian on the board must own it a miracle . 
They , poor people , knew nothing of sanitary reform , sanitary precautions , zymotics , endemics , epidemics , deodorizers , or disinfectants . 
They regarded disease with the apathy of creatures who felt it to be inseparable from humanity , and with the fatalism of despair . 
Gin was their cardinal prescription , not for cure , but for oblivion Sold everywhere . 
Veritable wreckers they who construct these haunts , viler than the wretches who place false beacons and plunder bodies on the beach . 
The lips from which that counsel dropped offered some unpleasant alternatives , leaving out one , however , which nowadays may yet reach you the contempt of your kind . 
I return again to Ginx's menace to his wife , who was suckling her infant at the time on the bed . 
For her he had an animal affection that preserved her from unkindness , even in his cups . 
His hand had never unmanned itself by striking her , and rarely indeed did it injure any one else . 
He wrestled not against flesh and blood , or powers , or principalities , or wicked spirits in high places . 
He struggled with clods and stones , and primeval chaos . 
His hands were horny with the fight , and his nature had perhaps caught some of the dull ruggedness of the things wherewith he battled . 
A dozen children overrunning the space in his rooms was then a strain beyond the endurance of Ginx . 
Nor had he the heart to try the common plan , and turn his children out of doors on the chance of their being picked up in a raid of Sunday School teachers . 
So he turned out himself to talk with the humbler spirits of the Dragon , or listen sleepily while alehouse demagogues prescribed remedies for State abuses . 
Our friend was nearly as guiltless of knowledge as if Eve had never rifled the tree whereon it grew . 
Vacant of policies were his thoughts innocent he of ideas of state craft . 
He knew there was a Queen he had seen her . 
Lords and Commons were to him vague deities possessing strange powers . 
Little recked he of their uses or abuses . 
The functions of Government were to him Asian mysteries . 
He only felt that it ought to have a strong arm , like the brawny member wherewith he preserved order in his domestic kingdom , and therefore generally associated Government with the Police . 
In his view these were to clear away evil doers and leave every one else alone . 
The higher objects of Government were , if at all , outlined in the shadowiest form in his imagination . 
Government imposed taxes that he was obliged to know . 
Government maintained the parks for that he thanked it . 
Why they should do so he never conceived I am not sure that he cared . 
I must , at any risk , say something about this in a separate chapter . 
Digressive , and may be skipped without mutilating the History . 
To these the obedience he will render will not be the loving assent of his heart , but a begrudged concession to circumstance . 
Your awe invested legislature is not viewed as his friend and brother helper , but his tyrant . 
Therefore the most natural bent of his workman statesmanship a rough , bungling affair will be to tame you you who ought to be his Counsellor and Friend . 
When he finds that your legislative action exerts upon him a repressive and restraining force he will curse you as its author , because he sees not the springs you are working . 
Other attractions may be found in that solution such as the untying of some knots of electoral difficulty , and removing incitements to corruption . 
Ten thousand pounds for one year's power were a high price even to a contractor . 
Everywhere around us are unhewn rocks stirred with a strange motion . 
Ginx has been waiting through three chapters to explain his truculence upon the birth of his twelfth child . 
Much explanation is not necessary . 
When he looked round his nest and saw the many open mouths about him , he might well be appalled to have another added to them . 
His children were not chameleons , yet they were already forced to be content with a proportion of air for their food . 
And even the air was bad . 
They were pallid and pinched . 
Her poor , unintelligent mind clung tenaciously to the controverted aphorism , Where God sends mouths he sends food to fill them . 
In the rush and tumult of the world it is likely that the summum bonum of nine tenths of mankind is embraced in that purely negative happiness to get along . 
If a mother can forget her sucking child she was not that mother . 
The Antagonism of Law and Necessity . 
In eighteen months , notwithstanding resolves , menaces , and prophecies , GINX'S BABY was born . 
The mother hid the impending event long , from the father . 
When he came to know it , he fixed his determination by much thought and a little extra drinking . 
He argued thus He wouldn't go on the parish . 
He couldn't keep another youngster to save his life . 
He had never taken charity and never would . 
There was nothink to do with it but drown it ! Female friends of Mrs. Ginx bruited his intentions about the neighborhood , so that her time was watched for with interest . 
One afternoon Ginx , lounging home , saw signs of excitement around his door in Rosemary Street . 
A knot of women and children awaited his coming . 
Passing through them he soon learned what had happened . 
The man meanwhile had reached the street . 
Here he comes ! There's the baby ! He's going to do it , sure enough ! shrieked the women . 
It is very well to talk about drowning your baby , but to do it you need two things , water and opportunity . 
Vauxhall Bridge was the nearest way to the former , and towards it Ginx turned . 
Stop him ! Murder ! Take the child from him ! The crowd grew larger , and impeded the man's progress . 
Some of his fellow workmen stood by regarding the fun . 
Leave us aloan , naabors , shouted Ginx this is my own baby , and I'll do wot I likes with it . 
I kent keep it an' if I've got anythin' I kent keep , it's best to get rid of it , ain't it ? This child's goin' over Wauxhall Bridge . 
But the women clung to his arms and coattails . 
Where was it found ? CHORUS . 
It warn't found at all it's Ginx's baby . 
Ginx's baby ? Who's Ginx ? GINX . 
He's goin' to drown it . 
Going to drown it ? Nonsense . 
But , bless my heart , that's murder ! GINX . 
I've twelve already at home . 
Starvashon's sure to kill this 'un . 
Best save it the trouble . 
Take it away , Mr. Smug , he'll kill it if you don't . 
Stuff and nonsense ! Quite contrary to law ! Why , man , you're bound to support your child . 
You can't throw it off in that way nor on the parish neither . 
I must get a magistrate's order . 
The act of parliament is as clear as daylight . 
I had a man up under it last week . 
Mr. Smug , the officer , rolled out this section in a sonorous monotone , without stops , like a clerk of the court . 
It was his pride to know by heart all the acts relating to his department , and to bring them down upon any obstinate head that he wished to crush . 
Ginx's head , however , was impervious to an act of parliament . 
In his then temper , the Commination Service or St . 
Ernulphus's curse would have been feathers to him . 
The only feeling aroused in his mind by the words of the legislature was one of resentment . 
To him they seemed unjust , because they were hard and fast , and made no allowance for circumstances . 
D the act of parliament ! What's the use of saying I shan't abandon the child , when I can't keep it alive ? OFFICER . 
But you're bound by law to keep it alive . 
little better nor alive now . 
If that's an act of Parleyment , why don't the act of Parleyment provide for 'em ? You know what wages is , and I can't get more than is going . 
Why don't Parleyment provide for 'em ? You take the child , Mr. Smug . 
ME take the child ! The parish has enough to do to take care of foundlings and children whose parents can't or don't work . 
You don't suppose we will look after the children of those who can ? GINX . 
You'll bring up bastards and beggars' pups , but you won't help an honest man to keep his head above water . 
This child's head is goin' under water anyhow ! and he prepared to bolt , amid fresh screams from the Chorus . 
Two gentlemen , who had been observing the excitement , here came forward . 
This is our problem again , Mr. Philosopher . 
There are two aspects of a question . 
I am serious , my friend . 
Did it never occur to you that you had no right to bring children into the world unless you could feed and clothe and educate them ? CHORUS . 
Laws a' mercy ! GINX . 
I'd like to know how I could help it , naabor . 
Well , I will go further and say you ought not to have married without a fair prospect of being able to provide for any contingent increase of family . 
Laws a' mercy ! PHILOSOPHER . 
Civil words , naabor don't call my family hard names . 
Then let me say , such a monstrous number of children as thirteen ? You knew , as you said just now , that wages were wages and did not vary much . 
And yet you have gone on subdividing your resources by the increase of what must become a degenerate offspring . 
All you workpeople are doing it . 
The philosopher had gone too far . 
There were some angry murmurs among the women and Ginx's face grew dark . 
He may have been much of a brute , but he felt that , after all , that sort of thing was denied to dogs and pigs . 
Before he could translate his thoughts into words or acts a shrewd looking , curly haired stonemason , who stood by with his tin on his arm , cut into the discussion . 
Your doctrines won't go down here , Mr. Philosopher . 
I've 'eard of them before . 
Well , to take the last point first , there are physical and ethical questions involved in it , which it is hard to discuss before such an audience as this . 
But you must discuss 'em , if you wish us to change our ways , and stop breeding . 
Very well perhaps you are right . 
But , again , I should first have to establish a basis for my arguments , by showing that the conception of marriage entertained by you all is a low one . 
It is not simply a breeding matter . 
The beauty and value of the relation lies in its educational effects the cultivation of mutual sentiments and refinements of great importance to a community . 
Besides , ain't there good of another kind to be got out of the relation of parents and children ? Did you ever have a child yourself ? GINX . 
HE have a youngster ! He couldn't . 
Ha ! Ha ! Ha ! STONEMASON . 
I don't believe in yer humbuggin' notions . 
They lead to lust and crime I'm told they do in France . 
You can't stop eating by passin' an act of Parleyment to stop it . 
And as for yer eddication and cultivation , that makes no difference . 
We know something here about yer eddicated men more than they think . 
They have their passions like other men and eddication don't keep 'em down . 
Among us I tell you , sir , three fourths of our eddication , is eddication of the heart . 
The Philosopher testified some admiration by listening attentively , and was about to reply , but the Chorus was tired , and the women would not hear him . 
Best get out o' this . 
We don't want any o' yer filhosophy . 
Go and get childer' of yer own , c . 
The Philosopher and his friend departed , carrying with them unsolved the problem they had brought . 
The stonemason had been the hero of the moment now attention centred on our own hero . 
He could not run her down . 
Stop , MAN ! Are you mad ? Give me the child . 
He placed the little bundle in her arms . 
She uncovered the queer , ruby face , and kissed it . 
Ginx had not looked at the face before , but after seeing it , and the act of this woman , he could not have touched a hair of his child's head . 
His purpose died from that moment , though his perplexity was still alive . 
I will take it to the Sisters' Home , and it shall live there . 
Your wife may come and nurse it . 
We will take charge of it . 
And you won't send it back again ? You'll take it for good and all ? NUN . 
A little white hand came out from under her burthen , and was at once half crushed in Ginx's elephantine grasp . 
Come , mates , I'll stand a drink . 
WHAT CHARITY AND THE CHURCHES DID WITH HIM . 
I. The Milk of Human Kindness , Mother's Milk , and the Milk of the Word . 
The early days of his residence at the Home of the Sisters of Misery , in Winkle Street , was the Eden of Ginx's Baby's existence . 
He was nestled in kind serge covered arms kisses rained upon him from chaste lips . 
The awkward questions foreshadowed in the discovery were left to be considered when their growing importance should demand upon them the judgment of the archbishop . 
But Ginx's Baby was in a religious atmosphere , and that is always surcharged with electricity . 
His lot must have been above that of any other human being if he could long have remained in such a climate unvisited by thunder . 
The mother had been permitted to attend at the Home with the same regularity as the milkman , to discharge her maternal duties . 
Then with the rise of the visionary projects just mentioned the gravest doubts began to agitate the fertile and casuistic mind of the Lady Superior . 
The holier her ideal St . 
Ginx of the future , the more to be deplored was any heretical taint in the present . 
He gave his opinion in the following letter DEAR SISTER SUSPICIOSA , The very grave question you have put to me has given me much anxiety . 
It could not but do so since it occupied , I knew , so fully your own holy reflections . 
I pondered it during the night while I repeated one hundred Aves on my knees , and I think the Blessed Virgin has vouchsafed her assistance . 
In this you are but following the usage of the Church in all ages , for She has ever enjoined the advantage of infusing Her doctrines into Her children with the mother's milk . 
Three courses only appear to me to be open to us . 
Thus we may hope to shield the young soul in its present freshness from contact with carnal elements . 
Your loving Father in , c . 
On receiving this letter the Superioress conferred not with flesh and blood , but sent for Mrs. Ginx . 
That worthy woman was not enchanted with her child's position . 
I have hinted that her faith was simple , but in proportion to its simplicity it was strongly rooted in her nature . 
'Tis not infrequent to find it so . 
Lengthy creeds and confessions of faith are apt to extend the strength and fervor of belief over too wide a surface . 
In the close frame of some single article will be concentrated the whole energy of the soul . 
Mrs. Ginx's creed was succinct . 
I believe in God , giver of bread , meat , money , and health . 
This she maintained , with indifferent ritual and devotional observances . 
But there was to Mrs. Ginx's faith a corollary or secondary creed , only needed to meet special emergencies . 
I believe in the Church of England . 
I believe in Heaven and Hell . 
I hate Popery , priests , and the Devil . 
When her husband made his fatal gift to the nun , this third article of his wife's belief , or unbelief , stirred up and waxed aggressive . 
Said the Lady Superior , My good woman , your child thrives under the care of Holy Mother Church . 
Yes'm , he thrives well , replies Mrs. Ginx , repeating no more of Sister Suspiciosa's sentence , an' I've 'ad more milk than ever for the darlin' this time , thank God . 
I dunno about her , cries Mrs. Ginx emphatically , perhaps not seeing congruity between a virgin and the subject of thankfulness . 
And the Holy Virgin , repeated the nun , who interests herself in all mothers . 
She has thus blessed you that your child may be made strong for the work of the Church . 
I beseech you listen to Her voice , and come and enter Her fold . 
O dear ! O dear ! The Lady Superior shut her ears she had raised a familiar spirit and could not lay it . 
You know your husband has given the child to us . 
It will be called the infant Ambrosius . 
No , mum ! she said I couldn't sleep with that on my breast and cried hysterically . 
This lower class heretic WAS brutally refractory . 
So thought the Superioress , and so gave Mrs. Ginx notice to come no more . 
She went home rather jubilant she was a martyr . 
Ginx's baby was now fed on consecrated pap . 
But his mother was not a woman to be silent under her wrongs . 
From her husband she hid them , because the subject was forbidden . 
She poured out her complaint to Mrs. Spittal and other Protestant matrons . 
Thus it came to pass that one day , in Ginx's absence , the good woman was surprised by a visit from a gentleman . 
He was small , sharp , rapid , dressed in black . 
He opened his business at once . 
Mrs. Ginx ? Ah ! I am the agent of the Protestant Detectoral Association . 
Mrs. Ginx wiped her best chair and set it for him . 
By great good fortune the secretary received only half an hour ago intelligence of the shocking instance of Papal aggression of which you have been the victim . 
To hear her case put so grandly was honey to Mrs. Ginx . 
Well now , continued the little man , we are ready to render you every assistance to save your child from the claws of the Great Dragon . 
It was the very case for the Protestant Detectoral Association . 
Would Mr. Ginx not join in an effort to recover his child ? No , sir I should think not he went an' gave it away . 
I know but he is a Protestant ? I don't think he be much o' anything , sir . 
I know he hate priests like pison , but he don't care about these things as I do . 
Writes in his memorandum book husband indifferent . 
But don't you think he would help you to get the child back again ? No , sir . 
I wouldn't speak of it to him for the world . 
He'd knock any one down if they was to mention the child to him . 
The little man mentally determined not to see Ginx . 
Well would you like to have your child back ? You see , I couldn't bring it 'ere , sir . 
Ginx won't 'ave it but I'd like to see it took away from them nunnerys . 
Ha ! very well then . 
We can perhaps manage it for you . 
Then we'll have an affidavit and apply for a Habeas Corpus . 
It was impossible not to be satisfied with such words as these , whatever they meant and Mrs. Ginx was cheered , while the little man went on his way . 
Mother , or Mrs. Suspiciosa , fed Ginx's Baby with holy pap . 
It seemed proper now that he should be christened and formally received into the Church . 
No small stir was made by this ceremony , for which all the resources of the convent were called into action . 
The day selected was that sacred to St . 
The chapel was decorated with flowers . 
Mother Suspiciosa carried the infant , clothed in a pure white robe , with a red cross embroidered on its front . 
In the absence of the natural parent a wax figure of St . 
These things are a mystery . 
I have no hesitation about describing the impious behavior of little Ginx . 
Whatever swaddled infant could do in the way of opposition , with hands , and legs , and voice , was done by that embryo saint . 
The incense made him cough and sputter the lights and singing raised the very devil within him . 
His cries drowned the prayers . 
He frightened his conductress by the redness of his face . 
He ruined the red cross with ejected matter . 
You would have taken him for an infant demoniac . 
Mother Suspiciosa , though annoyed , was encouraged . 
She looked upon this as an evident testimony to little Ginx's value . 
Michael were contending for his body . 
At length he was baptized , and carried out . 
He instantly sank into a deep sleep . 
It was a miracle Satan had yielded to the sign of the cross ! IV . 
Law on Behalf of Gospel . 
In the moment of Sister Suspiciosa's triumph , the enemy was laying his train against her . 
The little man made his report to the secretary of the Protestant Detectoral Association . 
In any other matter he could act coolly , and with deliberation in this he was an enthusiast . 
He had a keen Roman nose . 
He could scent a priest anywhere in the United Kingdom . 
He could smell Jesuitry in the Queen's drawing room , a cabinet council or convocation , though he had never been at either . 
His eye was beyond a falcon's he saw things that were invisible . 
It penetrated through all disguises . 
He knew a secret emissary of the Pope by the cock of his hat , or the color of his stockings . 
At least , he thought so , and thousands of persons acted on his estimate of himself . 
Here is a man , as you have expressed it , 'indifferent' to his child's life animal and spiritual . 
The mother , with a true Protestant heart , and a fine breast of milk , is longing to nurture her child , and to deliver it from the toils of the Papacy . 
But the husband , what's his name ? . 
Ginx Ginx ? a very bad name for a case , by the way GINX'S CASE ! this Ginx has given up his child to the Sisters of Misery . 
How are we to get it away again , without his cooperation ? . 
Well , we must try . 
The solicitor of the Association was forthwith summoned . 
When the matter had been laid before him , he expressed doubts , offered and withdrew courses of action , and ended by suggesting that he should take the opinion of counsel . 
Mr. Stigma , I suppose ? said he to the secretary . 
Oh , yes , Sir Adolphus Stigma is one of our principal supporters , and his son's heart is thoroughly with us . 
Roundhead , Roundhead and Lollard , drew up a case to be submitted to Mr. Stigma . 
Whether a summons should be taken out before a magistrate against the Lady Superior of the convent , for enticing away or detaining the infant , under the th sect . 
To advise generally on behalf of the infant . 
Mr. Adolphus Stigma took ten days to consider . 
Meanwhile , the infant Ambrosius continued to thrive on conventual pap . 
Then Mr. Stigma wrote his opinion . 
It was a model for a barrister . 
You took the advice at your own peril not his . 
'I have given to this case my most careful attention and it is one of great difficulty . 
Having regard to the questions put to me , I think . 
Section of the Act of and Vict . 
, appears at first sight to be directed against the stealing and abduction of children for marriage , or other improper purposes . 
It provides that 'Whosoever shall UNLAWFULLY , either by force or fraud , lead or take away , or decoy , or entice away , or detain any child , c . 
, with intent to deprive ANY parent , c . 
, of the possession of such child' shall be guilty of felony . 
It is perfectly clear , that in the case before me , the infant was not , 'by force or fraud , led or taken away , or decoyed , or enticed away . 
The statute , however , uses the word 'detain and this , it appears to me , has much the same force and intention as the previous words . 
The point is new , and of great importance and if the Protestant Detectoral Association feel disposed to try it , they would do so under favorable circumstances in the present case . 
The second question is also involved in difficulty . 
Were the father to be joined in the proceedings , the writ of Habeas Corpus would be the correct remedy . 
But his probable refusal necessitates the inquiry whether the mother can alone apply for the writ . 
The general rule of law is , that the father is entitled to the custody and disposition of his children . 
In Cartlidge and Cartlidge , , L. J. , P. M. D. , it was held that this rule would not be generally departed from by the Divorce Court but in Barnes v . 
These cases were , however , in the Divorce Court , and do not apply . 
It has been decided under this Act that the court has power to give the custody of children under seven to the mother . 
As this infant is but six weeks old it comes within that case . 
I have no general advice to give on behalf of the infant . 
ADOLPHUS STIGMA , , Plumtree Court . 
If none of the courses suggested by Mr. Stigma was very decided , Messrs . 
Roundhead , Roundhead and Lollard were not sorry to have three strings to their bow . 
The Detectoral Association were good clients most of their funds went into their lawyers' pockets . 
It was part of their policy to be litigious . 
Thereby the world was kept alive to the existence of Papacy within its bosom . 
Though the Devil should not get his due , few would give him any sympathy . 
The solicitor at once instructed Mr. Dignam Bailey , Q. C. , to apply with Mr. Stigma to a magistrate for a summons . 
Mr. Bailey , Q. C. , was not chosen for his partialities . 
In religious matters he was a perfect Gallio but he was like St . 
Paul in one particular , he could be all things to all men . 
, applied in the case of re an infant , exparte Ginx , is not material to this history . 
It will be most convenient to insert the report of the Daily Electric Meteor WESTMINSTER . 
On whose behalf do you apply ? The learned counsel stated that he was instructed by the Protestant Detectoral Association to apply on behalf of the mother . 
The case was also watched by the solicitors of the Society for Preventing the Suppression of Women and Children . 
Does the father join in the application ? Mr. BAILEY . 
Why ? He ought to be joined if living . 
Perhaps you will allow me , sir , to state the case . 
The fact is Mr. D'ACERBITY . 
I cannot understand why the father should not be represented if the child has been abducted . 
The father appeared to be indifferent , or to have given a sort of general acquiescence . 
This was Mrs. Ginx's thirteenth child , around whom gathered the concentrated affections Mr. D'ACERBITY . 
We have no time for sentiment here , Mr. Bailey . 
If the father consented , can you call it abduction ? It looks like reduction . 
Mr. Bailey called attention to the consolidated statutes of criminal law , and said he was going for illegal detention rather than abduction , and argued at great length from section . 
The father had been a consenting party , on the counsel's own statement , to the child's removal , and no suggestion had been made that he had withdrawn his consent . 
He should refuse a summons . 
Mr. Bailey endeavored to address the magistrate but was stopped . 
I have no more to say . 
You can apply to the Queen's Bench . 
I have no sympathy with you whatever . 
The application to the magistrate was far from satisfactory . 
There had not even been an exposure , and the Windmill Bulletin gayly bantered the Detectoral Association . 
Meanwhile had happened the grand christening , of which a circumstantial account was in the hands of the council of the Detectoral Association shortly after the ceremony had been performed . 
Board men paraded the great thoroughfares carrying this appeal PROTESTANT DETECTORAL ASSOCIATION . 
The metropolis was in an uproar . 
Meetings were held , subscriptions poured in , dangerous crowds collected in Winkle Street . 
When Mr. Dignam Bailey , Q. C. , went down to Westminster , to move the Court of Queen's Bench , multitudes besieged it . 
Protestant champions and Papal ecclesiastics vied in their efforts to get seats . 
The writ had gone from judge's chambers returnable to the full court . 
Sister Suspiciosa , bearing the infant Ambrosius , and supported by two novices and Father Certificatus , had been smuggled into court through mysterious passages in its rear . 
He was assisted by half a dozen counsel . 
One cannot do Justice to Mr. Dignam Bailey's argument , when after lunch he rose to reply . 
He was logical and passionate , vindictive and pathetic by turns . 
Mr. Bailey concluded by a play on the aphorism cited by his learned friend . 
He would say that if such justice were to be done , as his friend had urged , the Kingdom of Heaven in England would rush to its fall . 
As they passed out of Court , Mr. Stigma said to his clients , Quite as I anticipated you remember I told you so in my Opinion . 
A Protestor , but not a Protestant . 
The infant Ambrosius and his conductors could scarcely reach the convent in safety . 
The building showed few windows to the street , but they were all broken . 
What might have happened in a few days , but that Ginx's Baby took the matter into his own hands , none can say . 
The treatment to which the little saint was subjected soured his temper . 
His kind nurses had choked him twice a day with incense , and now he had inhaled for seven hours the air of the Queen's Bench . 
On his return to the convent he was hastily fed , and carried to the chapel to give thanks for the victory of the day . 
Wrapped in a handsome chasuble , they laid him on the steps of the altar . 
In the most solemn part of the service he coughed , and grew sick . 
When the officiating priest , to save that garment , took the child in his arms , he nefariously polluted the sacerdotal vestments and the altar steps . 
Then he kicked toward the altar itself , roared lustily , and finally went into convulsions in Sister Suspiciosa's arms . 
Like most women , the Lady Superior required her enthusiasm to be fed with success . 
She began to think that she had been cozened Ginx's Baby was too evidently a spiritual miscarriage . 
He must , like the rest of his family , be , indeed , Protestant to the backbone . 
Father Certificatus agreed with her . 
His robes and best chasuble were befouled . 
Let us not risk a repetition of this conduct , said he let the child be given up . 
He is baptized , and cannot be severed from the Church . 
He will return after many days . 
Next morning the solicitors of the Protestant Detectoral Association received a letter from their opponents . 
In this they said that presuming Messrs . 
See how these Christians love one another . 
A mass meeting of Protestants had been summoned for three o'clock on the day designated in the letter of the Papist attorneys , to be held in the Philopragmon Hall . 
That was the favorite centre of countless movements , both well meant and well executed , and of others as futile as they were foolish . 
Yet one could not say that a larger proportion of the latter were connected with the Hall than existed in as many other human enterprises of any sort . 
The concession of the Romanists at first dashed the managers of the demonstration . 
Still there remained topics for a meeting they would rejoice over victory , and consult about the future of the Protestant Baby . 
The Secretary was an old hand at these meetings . 
He planned to import into this one a sensation . 
I am afraid he was quite as uncomfortable as he had ever been at the convent . 
The child was astounded into quietness . 
Mr. Trumpeter took the chair believed by many to be , next to the Queen , the most powerful defender of the faith in the three kingdoms . 
I never could understand why the newspapers reported his speeches I cannot . 
Before Lord Evergood could say a word murmurs arose in every part of the hall . 
He was a mild , gentlemanly Christian , without guile , and the opposition both surprised and frightened him . 
He uttered a few sentences in approval of his proposition and sat down . 
An individual in the gallery shouted Sir ! I rise to move an amendment ! Cheers , and cries of Order ! order ! Sit down ! c . 
The Chairman , with great blandness , said The gentleman is out of order the resolution has not yet been seconded . 
I call upon the Rev . 
Mr. Valpy to second the resolution . 
Mr. Valpy , incumbent of St . 
Swithin's within , insisted on speaking , but what he said was known only to himself . 
When he had finished there was an extraordinary commotion . 
On the platform many ministers and laymen jumped to their feet in the hall at least a hundred aspirants for a hearing raised themselves on benches or the convenient backs of friends . 
The Chairman shouted , Order ! ORDER , gentlemen ! This is a great occasion let us show unanimity ! There seemed to be an unanimous desire to speak . 
Amid cheers , cries for order , and Kentish fire , you could hear the Rev . 
Mark Slowboy , Independent , the Rev . 
Hugh Quickly , Wesleyan , the Rev . 
Bereciah Calvin , Presbyterian , the Rev . 
Ezekiel Cutwater , Baptist , calling to the chair . 
What was the matter ? Why the proposal to hand over the baby to an Anglican refuge stirred up the blood of every Dissenter present . 
It was lifting the infant out of the frying pan and dexterously dropping him into the fire . 
But the chairman was accustomed to these scenes . 
He stayed the tumult by proposing that a representative from each denomination should give his opinion to the audience . 
It is quite credible that if Dr . 
Watts's assertion be true that Satan trembles when he sees The weakest saint upon his knees , that arch enemy was unusually perturbed when Ezekiel Cutwater was upon his . 
On these he had borne manly contests with evil . 
Whoso should not join with him in these let him be Anathema Maranatha . 
His eye kindled as he looked at the seething audience . 
Sir , said he , I beg to move an amendment to the motion of the noble lord . 
, just snatched from the toils of a kindred superstition . 
I withdraw the expression I did not mean to be offensive . 
This is a grand representative meeting not of the English Church , not of the Baptist Church , not of the Wesleyan Church but of Protestantism . 
In such an assembly is it right to propose any singular disposition of a representative infant ? This is now the adopted child , not of one , but of all denominations . 
Him then concentrate the sympathies of every Protestant heart . 
Let us not despoil the occasion of its greatness by exhibiting a narrow bigotry in one direction ! Let us bring into this infantile focus the rays of Catholic unity . 
Yes ! I say a farce , whether you regard the age of the acolyte or the indifferent proportion of water with which it would be performed . 
By this proposition , which was received with enthusiasm , Ginx's Baby was to be incontinently pitched into an arena of polemical warfare . 
Every one was willing that a committee should fight out the question vicariously and , therefore , when Mr. Slowboy seconded the amendment , it was carried with loud acclamations . 
But they were not yet out of the wood . 
On proceeding to nominate members of the committee , the Unitarians and Quakers claimed to be represented . 
The platform and the meeting were by the ears again . 
The Unitarians and Quakers took their stand on the Catholic principles embodied in the amendment , and on the fact that Ginx's Baby had now become national Protestant property . 
Mr. Cutwater and a few others , moved by the scandal of the dispute , interfered , and the committee was at length constituted to the satisfaction of all parties . 
It was to be called The Branch Committee of the Protestant Detectoral Union for promoting the Physical and Spiritual Well being of Ginx's Baby . 
This promised well for Master Ginx's future . 
The meeting had lasted five hours , and while they were discussing him the child grew hungry . 
In the tumult every one had forgotten the subject of it , and now it was over , they dispersed without thought of him . 
But he would not allow those near him at all events to overlook his presence . 
Some , foreseeing that awkwardness was impending , slipped away while three or four stayed to ask what was to be done with him . 
Hand him over to the custody of the Chairman , said a Mr. Dove . 
I should be most happy , said he , smoothly , but Mrs. Trumpeter is out of town . 
Could your dear wife take him , Mr. Dove ? Mr. Dove's wife was otherwise engaged . 
The Secretary was unmarried chambers at Nincome's Inn . 
After her name and address had been hastily noted , the Protestant baby was placed in her arms . 
My Lord Evergood , the Chairman , the clergy , the Secretary , and the mob went home rejoicing . 
By an ironical chance he was wrapped in a copy of the largest daily paper in the world . 
Good Samaritans , and Good Samaritan Twopences . 
To have called a public meeting to discuss his fate before deserting him , would have been a refinement of inhumanity . 
The committee were rather ashamed when they met . 
Instant measures were taken to recover the child and place him in good hands . 
The duchess again provided baby clothes . 
The next Sunday sermons were preached on his behalf in a score of chapels . 
The collections amounted to L , a sum increased by donations and subscriptions to the handsome total of L s . 
It will be seen hereafter what the committee did with the baby , but I happen to have an account of what became of the funds . 
They were spent as follows , according to a balance sheet never submitted to the subscribers Pounds s . 
Secretaries employed by the Committee . 
Agents , canvassing , c . 
Advertisements of Meetings , Sermons , c . 
Postage , Firing , and Sundries . 
Total Pounds This left L s . 
No child could have been more thoroughly discussed , preached and written about , advertised , or advised by counsel but his resources dwindled in proportion to these advantages . 
A cynic would tell them that to look sharply after the disposal of their guerdon was half the gift . 
Their indifference was akin to that satirized by the poet Prodigus et stultus dedit quae spernit et odit . 
In an age of luxury we are grown so luxurious as to be content to pay agents to do our good deeds for us but they charge us three hundred per cent . 
X. The Force and a Specimen of its Weakness . 
Ginx's baby had been discovered by a policeman swaddled in a penny paper , distressingly familiar to metropolitan travellers by rail . 
To omit the details of his treatment at the hands of that great institution , The Force , would be invidious . 
The member thereof who fell in with him was walking a back street , sighting doors with his bull's eye . 
He had been carefully drilled not to walk more than three miles an hour . 
He was not a little startled when the rays of his lamp fell upon a struggling newspaper , out of which , as from a shell , came mysterious cries . 
He took up a corner of the paper and peeped in upon the face of Ginx's Baby then he occupied a quarter of an hour in embarrassing reflections . 
A nearly naked child crying in the cold ought to be housed as soon as possible , but X was ON HIS BEAT , and those magic words chained him to certain limits . 
This , of course , was the rule under a former commissioner , and every one knows that such absurd strategy has been abolished in the existing regime . 
Unhappily the baby was on his beat , and he was delivered from the temptation of transferring it to the other by the appearance of X 's bull's eye not far off . 
If he left it where it was , and it perished , he might be charged with murder . 
He was at his wits' end but having got there , he resolved on the simplest process , namely to carry it to the station . 
No provision was made by the regulations of the force to protect a beat casually deserted even for a proper purpose . 
Hence , while X was absent on his errand of mercy , the valuable shop of Messrs . 
Trinkett and Blouse , ecclesiastical tailors , was broken into , and several stoles , chasubles , altar cloths and other decorative tapestries were appropriated to profane uses . 
At the station the baby was disposed of according to rule . 
Due entry was first made in the night book by the superintendent of all the particulars of his discovery . 
Some cold milk was then procured and poured down the child's throat . 
Afterwards , wrapped in a constable's cape , he was placed in a cell where , when the door was locked , he could not disturb the guardians of the peace . 
The Unity of the Spirit and the Bond of Peace . 
When the committee met , every one discovered his incongruity with the rest . 
Each was disposed to treat Ginx's Baby in a different way in other words , each wished to reflect the views of his particular sect on the object of their charity . 
They were a new Evangelical Alliance , agreed only in hatred to Popery . 
This committee reported that there arose , respecting the child , the following questions I. As touching the body a . 
Wherewithal he should be fed and clothed ? b . 
In what manner and fashion that should be done ? II . 
As touching the mind and spirit a . 
Whether he should be educated ? If so , b . 
What were to be the subjects of instruction ? c . 
What creed , if any , should be primarily taught ? d . 
Should he be further baptized ? If so , . 
By what ceremonial ? This programme , it appeared to its concoctors , embraced everything that concerned Ginx's Baby except his death by the act of God or the Queen's enemies . 
No sooner was the report made than adopted . 
Then a member , eager for the fray , moved the postponement of the first division of questions until the others had been determined . 
Why should apostles of truth trouble themselves to serve tables ? These were very subordinate questions to them though , I think , of first importance to Ginx's Baby . 
It was decided to discuss little Ginx's future before considering his present . 
That with the A should be taught the origin , and with the Z the final destiny and destruction , of evil . 
To separate education from religion was to clip the wings of the heavenly dove . 
He need not say that he excluded Rugby under its then profane management . 
The Church was , however , divided against itself , for the Dean of Triston said he would give more latitude than his very reverend brother . 
You ought not to define in an infant mind a rigid outline of creed . 
In fact , he did not acknowledge any creed , he was not obliged to by law and was disinclined to by his reason . 
He would rather allow the inner seeds of natural light the glorious all pervading efflorescence of the Deity in all men's hearts , to grow within the young spirit . 
The Dean was assuredly vague and far less earnest than his brother cleric . 
Mr. Bumpus , Unitarian , met the suggestions of the Archdeacon with the scorn they merited . 
It was impossible to apply to a representative child of an enlightened age theories so long exploded . 
The Dean had certainly come nearer the truth with that broad sympathy for which he was noted . 
He himself proposed that the child should be made a model nursling of the liberalism of a new era . 
Old things were passing away all things had become new . 
Truth was kaleidoscopic , and varied with the media through which it was viewed . 
As for the child , every aspect of truth and error should be allowed to play upon his mind . 
Let him acquire ordinary school learning for fifteen years , and then send him to the London University . 
Here the Chairman , and half a dozen members of the committee , protested that the said University was a school of the devil , and several interchanges of discourtesy took place . 
He had been able a score of times to demonstrate to the House of Commons how silly it was to consider probabilities . 
In fact , he was opposed heart and soul to prophetic legislation he would live , legislatively , from hand to mouth . 
But the committee would not allow Mr. Shortt to run away with the bone of contention . 
M'Gregor Lucas , of the National Caledonian Believers , had been silent too long to contain himself further . 
This man needs some particular description whenever his name is made public . 
Nay , for this he lives , and by it , some think . 
At all events , he appears to be equally eager for rebuke and applause they both involve notoriety , and notoriety is sure to pay . 
Few absurdities had been overlooked by his shallow ingenuity . 
Cheap prophecy was his staple . 
Had you heard the honeyed words dropping from his lips , you would have taken him for a Scotch angel , and , consequently , a rarity . 
It was safe for him to stand and throw his darts . 
No one could say whether they hit or did not while most spectators had the good will to hope that they did . 
How he would have lived if Daniel and St . 
John had dreamed no dreams , one cannot conjecture . 
As it was , they provided the doctor with endless openings for his fancy . 
Since no one could solve the riddle of their prophecies , it was certain that no one could disprove his solutions . 
Lucas at so great a length , because it will be easier and more edifying to the reader to conceive what he said , than for me to recount it . 
He showed the Baby to be one of seven mysteries . 
He was in favor of teaching him at once to hate idolatry , music , crosses , masses , nuns , priests , bishops , and cardinals . 
Mr. Ogle , M. P. , here vigorously intervened . 
Said he I can't , with all deference , agree to any of these suggestions . 
They involve hand to hand fighting over this baby's body . 
No one of us is entitled to take charge of him . 
Theodoret Verity , M. A. , rose in anger . 
Truth is truth , or there is none at all . 
If there be any , it is our duty to impart it to this immortal at the outset of his existence . 
Mr. Verity has been saying the same thing any time these forty years . 
Forgive me , replied Mr. Ogle , if I say that this is very vague talking . 
I have not proposed to sever one question from another . 
I only propose to do in a different way that which is being done now by the most rigid of Mr. Verity's friends . 
It is impossible to comprehend what is meant by such a statement as that every truth is somehow connected with religion . 
I would admit that , but is not blood a different and perfectly severable thing from bone ? Each has its place , office , relation . 
Thus it is with the body of truth . 
In spite of Mr. Verity I affirm that there are truths that have not in themselves any element of religion whatever . 
These subjects and others are taught in our most bigoted schools in separate hours and relations from religion . 
Well , we all go to the Bible . 
We agree that between its covers lies religious truth somewhere . 
Give him no catechism let him read a creed in our daily life . 
'What is truth ? he must ask and answer for himself , as we all must do before God . 
Don't mistake me I hope I am not more indifferent to religion than any here present but I differ from them on the best method of imbuing the mind and heart with it . 
But , with so many of Christ's followers about me , surely , surely without providing any ecclesiastical mechanism , there will be testified to him simply how he may be saved . 
Let some good woman do for him a mother's part , but choose her for her general goodness and not for the dogmas of her church . 
The simpler her piety the better for him I should say ! This straightforward speech fell like a new apple of discord in the midst of the committee . 
Angry knots were formed , and the noble chairman found that he could not restore order . 
An adjournment was agreed to . 
That religious teaching was due to an immortal spirit some notion and evidence of the Divine and the Great Hereafter to be conveyed to it scarce was disputed . 
Nor was there collision over the necessity of what is called intellectual cultivation . 
The boy must be taught something of the world in which he was to live nay , this latter knowledge seemed to be most immediately practical . 
As each disputant fixed his eye on one or the other aim that end appeared to him to be the most important . 
Hence , by a natural lapse , they came to treat subjects as antagonistic which were , in fact , parallel and quite consistent . 
The one called the others godless the others threw back the aspersion of bigotry . 
What was religion ? Intellectual culture they could agree about it embraced well known areas but this religion divided itself into many disputable fields . 
Not always , perhaps , but often , they fought for futile distinctions . 
No Funds no Faith , no Works . 
The Committee of the Protestant Detectoral Union on Ginx's Baby held twenty three meetings . 
They were then as far from unity of purpose as when they set out . 
Variety was given to the meetings by the changing combinations of members in attendance . 
The finances were little heeded in the intensity of their zeal for truth . 
These at length fell altogether into the hands of the association's secretary , and we have seen involved large items of expense . 
The twenty three meetings extended over a year . 
Gooddee , of a solitary survivor of the ancient Church of the Vieuxbois Protestants in a secluded valley of the Pyrenees . 
The secretary asked the committee to provide the money to discharge the baby's liabilities but they instantly adjourned , and no effort could afterwards get a quorum together . 
Since no money appeared they sold whatever clothes had been provided for him , and absconded from the place where they had been farming him for Protestantism . 
The secretary , by chance hearing of this , was discreet enough to make no inquiries . 
Ginx's Baby , as a Protestant question , vanished from the world . 
I never heard that any one was asked what had been done with the funds but I have already furnished the account that ought to have been rendered . 
One night , near twelve o'clock , a shrewd tradesman , looking out of his shopdoor before he turned into bed , heard a cry which proceeded from a bundle on the pavement . 
This he discovered to be an infant wrapt in a potato sack . 
Simon Magus and the adjacent parish of St . 
WHAT THE PARISH DID WITH HIM . 
I. Parochial Knots to be untied without prejudice . 
The infant borne to the workhouse of St . 
When he had been placed on the floor of the matron's room , and examined by the master , that official turned to the unwelcome bearer of the burden . 
Did you find this child ? Yes . 
Where ? Lying opposite my shop in Nether Place . 
What's your name ? Doll . 
Oh ! you're the cheesemonger . 
Your shop's on the other side of the boundary , in the other parish . 
The child ought not to come here it doesn't belong to us . 
Yes it does it wasn't on my side of the line . 
But it was in front of your house ? Well , the line runs crossways it don't follow the child was in our parish . 
Oh , nonsense ! there's no doubt about it ! We can't take the child in . 
You must carry it away again . 
Mr. Snigger turned to leave the room . 
Wait a bit , sir , said Mr. Doll I shall leave the child here , and you can do as you like with it . 
It ain't mine , at all events . 
I say it lay in your parish and if you don't look after it you may be the worse of it . 
The coroner's sure to try to earn his fees . 
He hurried from the room . 
Stop ! shouted the master , I say I don't accept the child . 
You leave it here at your own risk . 
We keep it without prejudice , remember without prejudice , sir ! without Mr. Doll was in the street and out of hearing . 
Bartimeus met the day after Mr. Doll's clever stratagem . 
The Guardians were not accustomed to restrain themselves , and did not withhold the expression of their indignation upon this announcement . 
As Mr. Doll had himself been a guardian of St . 
Simon Magus , it was clear to their impartial minds that he was trying by a trick to foist a bastard perhaps his own on the wrong parish . 
Mr. Cheekey , a licensed victualler , moved that the master's report be put under the table . 
Mr. Slinkum , draper , seconded the motion . 
Well , said Mr. Cheekey , turning painfully red , no matter how ye put it , I move to get rid of the brat . 
What's the best form of motion ? A churchwarden , who happened to be a gentleman , explained that the Board could not dismiss the question in so summary a way . 
He could foresee that there might be a nice point of law in the case . 
They would have to take some legal means of ascertaining their liabilities , and of forcing the other parish to take the child if they ought to do so . 
They must consult their solicitor . 
This gentleman was sent for post haste . 
Meanwhile the baby was ordered to be brought in for inspection . 
This person brought Ginx's Baby into the Board room , and placed him on the table . 
The Board of Guardians took a good look at him . 
He was not then in fair condition . 
Pallidula , rigida , nudula . 
Hum ! said Mr. Stink , who was a dog breeder What's his pedigree ? This brutal joke was well received by some of the Guardians . 
His pedigree , answered the half wit , gravely , goes back for three hundred years . 
Parients unknown by name , but got by Misery out o' Starvashun . 
The line began with Poverty out o' Laziness in Queen Elizabeth's time . 
The breed has been a large 'un wotever you thinks of the quality . 
This pleasantry was less acceptable to the Board . 
Well , said Mr. Scoop , grocer , a great stickler for parliamentary modes of procedure , I move it be committed . 
Committed ! Where ? said Mr. Stink . 
To Newgate I s'pose , said the half wit , his eyes twinkling . 
Nonsense , sir , for consideration . 
Send that man out , exclaimed Scoop clear the room for consultation . 
Davus was expelled , and the baby was then formally consigned to the care of a committee . 
By this time the legal adviser came in . 
found the child beyond the boundaries of St . 
Simon Magus and he will of course swear that he did you cannot refuse to take it in . 
However , I had better ascertain the facts from Mr. Doll and take the opinion of counsel . 
Meanwhile we must beware not to compromise ourselves by admitting anything , or doing anything equivalent to an admission . 
Then , to resume , thirdly and to be strictly safe , we must serve a notice on the infant and all whom it may concern . 
I think I'll draft it at once . 
In a few minutes the committee in charge pinned to the only garment of Ginx's Baby a paper in the following form PARISH OF ST . 
, a Foundling , and all other persons interested in the said Foundling . 
TAKE NOTICE That you , or either of you , have no just or lawful claim to have you or the said infant chargeable on the said Parish . 
WINKLE PHILLPOTTS , Solicitors for the Board . 
The World is my Parish . 
When Mr. Phillpotts called upon Doll , the cheesemonger , the latter straightway gave him the facts as they had occurred . 
Ginx's Baby , under the title Re a Foundling , was once more submitted for the opinion of counsel . 
They advised the Board that as the child was in both parishes when found , but had been taken up by a ratepayer of St . 
Simon Magus , the latter parish was bound to support him . 
Whereupon the Guardians of St . 
On receiving the challenge the Guardians of St . 
Simon Magus also took counsel's opinion . 
They were advised that as the greater part , and especially the head of the infant , was when discovered in the parish of St . 
Bartimeus , the latter was clearly chargeable . 
Both parties then proceeded to swear affidavits . 
Without prejudice to any one but the Guardians . 
The Court of Queen's Bench , after hearing an elaborate statement from the Attorney General , granted a rule nisi for a mandamus . 
This rule was entered for argument in a paper called The Special Paper , and , the list being a heavy one , nearly a year elapsed before it was reached . 
It was then again postponed several times for the convenience of counsel . 
Bartimeus chafed under the law's delay . 
They became morbidly sensitive to the incubus of Ginx's Baby , especially as the press had been reviewing some of their recent acts with great bitterness . 
Having served their notices , they were induced by Mr. Stink to resolve not to maintain the infant . 
The poor child was threatened with dissolution . 
Thus , no doubt , many difficulties in parochial administration are solved the subject vanishes away . 
The baby was kept provisionally in a room at the workhouse . 
On the outside of the door was a notice in fair round hand NOTICE . 
No food is to be supplied to it from the workhouse kitchen . 
N. B. This is not intended to prevent persons other than officials , c . 
, from having access to the infant , or assisting it . 
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD . 
There was nothing they could not do or leave undone . 
Fortunately for Ginx's Baby , the order was disobeyed . 
When the child grew hungry and dangerously thin , he brought bottles of pap prepared by Mrs. Snigger , and administered it to him . 
Thus things had gone on for many months , when one day an eye of that Argus monster , the Public , was set upon Ginx's Baby . 
Curiosity took him in , and horror chained him there for some time . 
Had he not entered , Ginx's Baby , spite of Snigger , would in twenty four hours have ceased to supply facts to history . 
He was suffering from low fever , and his condition was as sensationally shocking as any reporter could have wished . 
Out rushed the peer for a doctor , took a cab to a magistrate and detailed the whole case , to be repeated in next morning's papers . 
Penny a liners ran to the spot , wrote vivid descriptions of the baby and the room , and transcribed the notice . 
The Guardians were drubbed in trenchant leaders and indignant letters . 
They , instead of bending to the storm , strove to confront it , and passed angry resolutions of a childish and grotesque character . 
The few of them who possessed any sense of propriety were railed at in the meetings till they ceased to attend . 
The reports of their proceedings read like the vagaries of a lunatic asylum or the deliberations of the American Senate . 
They discharged Snigger for breach of orders , substituting a relative of Mr. Stink . 
They put a lock on the door , and passed food to the Baby by a stick . 
They refused to allow any doctor but one employed by themselves to see him . 
The case of the Guardians of St . 
Bartimeus against the Guardians of St . 
Simon Magus was at length reached . 
The argument lasted for two days . 
There is a grim work , the short title whereof is Burns's Justice , in five fat volumes , from which the legal Dryasdust turns aghast . 
In one of these portentous books , title Poor , pp . 
Clear the board , gentlemen . 
True regenerative legislation will begin by drawing away the rubbish . 
Reform means more than repair . 
REFORM , which means , Pull down with bold statesman's hand , and with like hand REBUILD , is no darling of your political Repairer . 
Just now all Social Reformation , in its noblest aims and attempts , is fettered by the Repair party . 
What is termed Sanitary Reform is enfeebled , and the vigor withdrawn from it , by this party . 
A comprehensive scheme of National Education is seized and half throttled by the Repair party . 
It will cost you ever so much to rebuild Repair ! The methods of relief to the Poor are old , cumbrous , unequal , as stupid as those who administer them . 
Give me a trenchant statesman , or I pray you leave legislation alone . 
Better things as they are than patched to distraction . 
At length , by means of some delicate legal adjustments , the judges saw their way to affirming that Ginx's Baby's parish was that of St . 
Bartimeus , and refused the rule for a mandamus . 
Parochial Benevolence and another translation . 
Bartimeus did not take kindly to the charge imposed upon them by the Queen's Bench . 
Some of the Guardians privately hinted to the master that it was unnecessary to overfeed the infant . 
They did not burthen him with much clothing , and what he had was shared with many lively companions . 
Ginx's Baby was not an ill favored child . 
He had inherited his father's frame and strength these helped him through the changes we are relating . 
To reduce his strength one half was to reduce one half his chances of independence , and to multiply the prospects of his continuous application for STATE AID . 
The money spent in stopping a hole in a Dutch dyke is doubtless better invested than if it were to be retained until a vast breach had laid half a kingdom under water . 
Some are doing it by special license of the devil , others by Act of Parliament , others by negligence or niggardliness . 
Society that recognizes not a root truth like that is sowing the wind God knows what it will reap . 
, Vile company , Neglect , Occasional cruelty , and A small supply of bad food and clothing . 
Every pauper was to them an obnoxious charge by any and every means to be reduced to a minimum or nil . 
Ginx's Baby was reduced to a minimum . 
His constitution enabled him to protest against reduction to nil . 
But , just after the bills of costs had been taxed , mulcting the rate payers of St . 
Bartimeus in a sum of more than L , , the Guardians were made aware of the name and origin of their charge . 
One of the persons who had deserted him was arrested for theft , and among other articles in her possession were some of the Baby's clothes . 
WHAT THE CLUBS AND POLITICIANS DID WITH HIM . 
Ginx's Baby's brothers and sisters would have nothing to say to him . 
Mrs. Ginx declared she could see in him no likeness to her own dear lost one and her husband swore that the brat never was his . 
The couple had latterly been pinching themselves and their children to save enough to emigrate . 
For this purpose aid and counsel were given to them by a neighboring curate , whose name , were my pages destined to immortality , should be printed here in golden letters . 
Rich and full will be his sheaves when many a statesman reaps tares . 
Finding that a thirteenth child was imposed on them by so superior a force as the law of England the Ginxes hastened their departure . 
Their last night in London , towards the small hours , Ginx , carrying our hero , went along Birdcage Walk . 
He scarcely knew where he was going , or how he was about to dispose of his burden , but he meant to get rid of it . 
Slowly Ginx tramped along Pall Mall , with only one other creature stirring , as it seemed for the moment a gentleman who turned up the steps of a large building . 
Seating the child on the bottom step and telling him not to cry , Ginx instantly crossed the road , turned into St . 
James's Square , passed by the rails , and stealing from corner to corner through the mazes of that locality , reached home by way of Piccadilly and Grosvenor Place . 
Henceforth this history shall know him no more . 
Scarcely had the shadow of his parent vanished in the gloom before Ginx's Baby piped forth a lusty protest the street rang again . 
Ere long the doors at the top of the steps swung back , and a portly form stood in the light . 
Why , bless my heart , here's a child crying on the steps ! Another form appeared . 
Is there nobody with it ? Halloo ! any one there ? No answer came save from poor little Ginx , but his was decided . 
The two servants descended the steps and looked at the miserable boy without touching him . 
Then they peered into the darkness in hope that they might get a glimpse of his mother or a policeman . 
A rapid step sounded on the pavement and a gentleman came up to the group . 
What have we here ? he said gently . 
It's a child , Sir Charles , I found crying on the steps . 
I expect it's a trick to get rid of him . 
We are looking for a policeman to take him away . 
Bring him into the Club , Smirke . 
The men hesitated a moment before executing so unwonted a demand , but Sir Charles Sterling was a man not safely to be thwarted a late minister and a member of the committee . 
The child being carried into the magnificent hall of the Club , stood on its mosaic floor . 
From above the radiance of the gas sunlight streamed down over the marble pillars , and glanced on gilded cornices and panels of scagliola . 
On the walls around were portraits of men who had striven for the deliverance of the people from ancient yokes and fetters . 
Of course Ginx's Baby did not see all this . 
What's all this ? said a big Member of Parliament , a minister renowned for economy in matters financial and intellectual . 
What are you doing with this youngster ? I never saw such an irregularity in a Club in my life . 
If you saw it oftener you would think more about it , said Sir Charles Sterling . 
We found him on the steps . 
I think he was asking for you , Glibton . 
This sally turned a laugh against the minister . 
Well , said another , he has come to the wrong quarter if he wants money . 
I shouldn't wonder , said a third , if he were one of the new messengers at the Office of Popular Edifices . 
Glibton is reducing their staff . 
If that's the case I think you have reached the minimum here , Glibton , cried Sir Charles . 
Can't the country afford a livery ? Bother you all , replied the Secretary , who was secretly pleased to be quizzed for his peculiarities tell us what this means . 
Whose 'lark' is it ? No lark at all , said Sterling . 
Here is a problem for you and all of us to solve . 
This forlorn object is representative , and stands here to night preaching us a serious sermon . 
He was deserted on the Club steps left there , perhaps , as a piece of clever irony he might be son to some of us . 
What's your name , my boy ? Ginx's Baby managed to say Dunno ! Ask him if he has any name ? said an Irish ex member , with a grave face . 
Ginx's Baby to this question responded distinctly No. No name , said the humorist then the author of his being must be Wilkie Collins . 
Everybody laughed at this indifferent pleasantry but our hero . 
His bosom began to heave ominously . 
What's to be done with him ? Send him to the workhouse . 
Give him to the porter . 
No thank you , sir , said he , promptly . 
The gentlemen were turning away , when Sir Charles stopped them . 
Look here ! he said , taking the boy's arm and baring it , this boy can hardly be called a human being . 
See what a thin arm he has how flaccid and colorless the flesh seems what an old face ! and I can scarcely feel any pulse . 
Good heavens , get him some wine ! A few hours will send him to the d sure enough . 
What are we to do for him , Glibton ? I say again , he is only part of a great problem . 
There must be hundreds of thousands growing up like this child and what a generation to contemplate in all its relations and effects ! The gentlemen were dashed by his earnestness . 
Oh , you're exaggerating , said Glibton there can't be such widespread misery . 
Why , if there were , the people would be wrecking our houses . 
I could bring you a hundred clergymen to testify to it to morrow morning . 
God forbid ! said Glibton . 
Well for them then if they are not in charge of the State machinery . 
What an hour will that be for hurrying to and fro with water pipes and buckets , when proper forethought , diligence , and sacrifice would have made the building fireproof . 
A thorough paced Reformer if not a Revolutionary . 
By the kindness and influence of Sir Charles Sterling , Ginx's Baby that night , and long after , found shelter in the Radical Club . 
He gave rise to a discussion in the smoking room next evening that ought to be chronicled . 
To some of the latter Sir Charles had been insisting that , whether they kept the child or not , they could not stifle the questions excited by his condition . 
You may delay , but you cannot dissipate them . 
Social and political reform ought to be linked the people on whom you confer new political rights cannot enjoy them without health and well being . 
But all our legislation is directed to that ! exclaimed Mr. Joshua Hale . 
Reform , Free Trade , Free Corn have these not enhanced the wealth of the people ? Partially yet there are classes unregenerated by their reviving influences . 
Free trade cannot insure work , nor can free corn provide food for every citizen . 
Nor any other legislation let us be practical . 
I own there is much to be done . 
I have often stated my 'platform . 
Very good , perhaps , all of them , replied Sir Charles , but some not at the moment possible , and all together are not exhaustive . 
I forgot , you are a manufacturer yet the last man of whom I should believe that selfishness had warped the judgment . 
You have done and endured more than any living statesman for the advantage of your fellow citizens , so that I will not cast at you the aspersion of class blindness . 
Still , I can scarcely think you have looked at this matter in the pure light of patriotism , and not within the narrow scope of trade interests . 
Our best economists reprehend the policy of depleting our labor market . 
Emigration is a timely remedy for adversity and to be very sparingly used . 
Labor is our richest vein We may have too much of it . 
But , said Sir Charles , which none can so ill bear . 
Nay what if it is permanent ? You look to increased trade . 
My dear Sterling , pardon me if I say you are talking wildly . 
Perhaps you don't see that you are verging on rank communism . 
The working of economic laws can be as infallibly projected as a solar eclipse . 
You can secure no class from periodic calamity , and so regulate laws of supply and demand by guiding wheels of legislation and taxation as to save every man from penury . 
You have forgotten that there are other economic laws besides those you glance at . 
Oh ! let them take themselves out . 
There are too many going already . 
They will follow natural laws , and where labor is required thither the stream will flow . 
Mere surface talk , my clever friend , replied the other , the men who are trooping out at their own expense are our most sober , careful , and energetic workmen . 
Else they could not go . 
They go because here so many indifferent ones are weighing down their shoulders . 
It's utterly impracticable at this time . 
We couldn't entertain the demand for State help for an instant . 
I tell you again you're a Fourierite . 
You virtually propose to put your hand in the pocket of the upper classes to pay all sorts of expenses for the lower . 
You may call me a communist if you please , replied Sir Charles Sterling I do not shrink from shadows . 
Perhaps I am in favor of something nearer to communism than our present form of society . 
I never expect to see that . 
I do hope to see the men of greatest ability pay more generously for the privileges they enjoy . 
The best policy for them too . 
The better the condition of the general community the better for themselves . 
You cannot alarm me with epithets . 
But these views are happily not essential to the support of the Emigration policy . 
O dear ! O dear ! mad as a March hare ! cried the minister , as he stumped from the room . 
Sterling is a good fellow , said he to a colleague with whom he walked down Pall Mall , and a thorough paced Liberal . 
Besides , he carries great weight in the House . 
But he is an enthusiast , and , therefore , not always quite practical . 
The first , original and masterly statesmen are needed to initiate and perform the other is simply the art of a genius who knows how most adroitly to manipulate people and circumstances . 
Sir Charles Sterling , Mr. Joshua Hale , and others continued the conversation interrupted by the minister's exit . 
Then of these statesmen , most clung , if not to self interest , to personal crotchets . 
Still that egotism is not seldom disastrous to the people's interests . 
While these statesmen nursed their own bantlings and held them up to national notice , they were apt to avoid or too lightly regard the views of men as able as themselves . 
For instance , Joshua Hale who is far above these remarks generally had put forth a scheme for the solution of the St . 
Helena property question very likely a good one , albeit revolutionary , and nothing would convince him that any other could succeed . 
He wished every man in St . 
Yet there were other men ready to offer simpler remedies , and to prove that if every man in St . 
Helena became a landowner it would become a very hell upon earth , and more unmanageable than it was before . 
If these gentlemen do not sacrifice their pet fancies for the sake of a settlement , what will become of St . 
Helena ? Just now they were discussing Ginx's Baby . 
In fact earth , heaven , and seas were to be regenerated by Act of Parliament for the benefit of Ginx's Baby and the people of England . 
Sir Charles listened impatiently , and at last burst forth again . 
He said When you consider it , what we are all trying to do nowadays is vulgarly to improve the breed but we go to work in a round about way . 
No one seems to have gone directly to such a problem as that . 
The difficulties to be faced are tremendous . 
Your dirtiest British youngster is hedged round with principles of an inviolable liberty and rights of Habeas Corpus . 
You let his father and mother , or any one who will save you the trouble of looking after him , mould him in his years of tenderness as they please . 
There are endless means of improving your lad charities without number Yes , that will never reach him . 
Never mind , they may , you know . 
Industrial schools , reformatories , asylums , hospitals , Peabody buildings , poor laws . 
Everybody is working to improve the condition of the poor man . 
Sanitary administration goes to his house and makes it habitable . 
Very , interjected Sir Charles Sterling , dryly . 
Factory laws protect and educate factory children They don't educate in one case out of ten . 
They don't feed them , clothe them , give them amusement and cultivation , do they ? Certainly not that would be ridiculous . 
Why , the question is whether that would be ridiculous ! replied Sir Charles . 
Who's to pay for all this ? asked Mr. Fissure , pertinently . 
The State , which means society , the whole of which is directly interested . 
I tell you a million of children are crying to us to set them free from the despotism of a crime and ignorance protected by law . 
That is striking but you are treading on delicate ground . 
The liberty of the subject Exactly what I expected you to say . 
These words can be used in defence of almost any injustice and tyranny . 
Such terms as 'political economy , 'communism , 'socialism , are bandied about in the same way . 
Yet propositions coming fairly within these terms are often mentioned with approval by the very persons who cast them at you . 
In a report of a recent Royal Commission I find that one of the Commissioners is quite as revolutionary as I am . 
He says it is right by law to secure that no child shall be cruelly treated or mentally neglected , over worked or under educated . 
Some people would call that communism , I fancy . 
But I think him to be correct as a political economist in that broad proposition . 
Why ? Because a child's relation to the State is wider , more permanent , and more important than his relation to his parents . 
If he is in danger of being depreciated and damned for good citizenship , the State must rescue him . 
A paternal and maternal government together ! cries Lord Namby a government of nurses . 
You know I should like to stop the production of children among the lower orders . 
Your propositions are far in advance of my radicalism . 
The State must sometimes interfere between parent and child for instance , in education or protection from cruelty . 
But , if I understand you , you actually contemplate a general refining and elevation of the working class by legislative means . 
Assuredly I should aim to cultivate their morals , refine their tastes , manners , habits . 
I wish to lift from them that ever depressing sense of hopelessness which keeps them in the dust . 
So do most men but you must do that by personal and private influences , not by State enactments . 
How would you do it ? How ? I think I could draw up a programme . 
In a land so wealthy the programme is not impracticable , though severe . 
V. Party Tactics and Political Obstructions to Social Reform . 
In the Club our hero revelled awhile under the protection of Sir Charles Sterling , and the petting of peers , Members of Parliament , and loungers who swarm therein . 
Certain gentlemen of Stock Exchange mannerism and dressiness gave the protege the go by , and even sneered at those who noticed him with kindness . 
But then these are of the men with whom every question is checked by money , and is balanced on the pivot of profit and loss . 
I dare say some of them thought the worse of Judas only because he had made so small a gain out of his celebrated transaction . 
To foster Ginx's Baby in the Club , as a recognition of the important questions surrounding him , though these questions involved hundreds of thousands of other cases , was to them ridiculous . 
Of far greater consequence was it in their eyes to settle a dispute between two extravagant fools at Constantinople and Cairo , and quicken the sluggishness of Turkish consols or Egyptian per cents . 
I do not cast stones at them every man must look at a thing with his own eyes . 
But it was curious to note how the Baby's fortunes shifted in the Club . 
The porter , Mr. Smirke , had succeeded , by means of a detective , in discovering the boy's name , but his parents were then half way to Canada . 
The members of the Fogey Club opposite , hearing that so interesting a foundling was being cherished by their opponents , politely asked leave to examine him , and he occasionally visited them . 
They treated him kindly and discussed his condition with earnestness . 
The leaders of the party debated whether he might not with advantage be taken out of their opponents' hands . 
Some thought that a judicious use of him might win popularity but others objected that it would be perilous for them to mix themselves up with so doleful an interest . 
In the result the Fogies tipped young Ginx , but did not commit themselves for or against him . 
Thus a long time elapsed , and our hero had grown old enough to be a page . 
He had received food , clothing , and goodwill , but no one had thought of giving him an education . 
At length , by unanimous consent , he was decreed to be a nuisance , and a few days would have revoked his license at the Club . 
No sooner did the Fogies get wind of this than they manoeuvred to get Ginx's Baby under their own management . 
They instructed their organs , as they called them , to pipe to popular feeling on the disgraceful apathy of the Radicals in regard to the foundling . 
The Radicals resented this conduct extremely . 
Ginx's Baby was brought back to the Club and restored to favor . 
Sir Charles Sterling resumed his interest in the boy . 
He had been gallantly aiding his party in other questions . 
There was the Timbuctoo question . 
A miserable desert chief had shut up a wandering Englishman , not possessed of wit enough to keep his head out of danger . 
There was a general impression that English honor was at stake , and the previous Fogey Government had ordered an expedition to cross the desert and punish the sheikh . 
You would never believe what it cost if you had not seen the bill . 
Helena question always brooding over Parliament . 
Helena was a constituent part of the British Empire . 
Every patriot agreed that the Empire without it would be incomplete and was so far right that its subtraction would have left the Empire by so much less . 
Most of its inhabitants were aboriginal a mercurial race , full of fire , quick witted , and gifted with the exuberant eloquence of savages , but deficient in dignity and self control . 
Before any one else had been given them by Providence to fight , they slaughtered and ravaged one another . 
Our intrusive British ancestors stepped upon the island , and , being strong men , mowed down the islanders like wheat , and appropriated the lands their swords had cleared . 
Still the aborigines held out in corners , and defied the conquerors . 
The latter ground them down , confiscated the property of their half dozen chiefs , and distributed it among themselves . 
By way of showing their imperial imperiousness , they built over some ruins left by their devastations a great church , in which they ordered all the islanders to worship . 
This was at first abomination to the islanders , who fought like devils whenever they could , and ended by accepting the religion of their foes . 
But the conquerors , afterwards choosing to change their own faith , resolved that the islanders should do so too . 
The prominent scamps died , to be succeeded by their children , or other of the hated conquerors , from generation to generation . 
The islanders went on increasing and protesting . 
Upon that common stage of novelty there were ever springing up fresh difficulties . 
Secret clubs were formed for murder and reprisal . 
Their pleasure was to go about insanely blowing rams' horns , carrying flags and bearing oranges in their hands . 
The islanders hated oranges , and at every opportunity cracked the skulls of the orange bearers with brutal weapons peculiar to the island . 
These , in return , cracked native skulls . 
The whole island was in a state of perpetual commotion . 
Still , its general condition improved , its farms grew prosperous , and a joint stock company had built a mill for converting cocoanut fibre into horse cloths , which yielded large profits . 
Besides , latterly folly had been too organized on both sides to suffer oblivion . 
Everybody was tired of the squabbles of St . 
Some were in favor also of dividing all the farms in the country among the aborigines , but the difficulty was to know how at the same time to satisfy the present occupiers . 
These schemes were topics of high debate , upon them the fortunes of Government rose and fell , and while they were agitated Ginx's Baby could have no chance of a parliamentary hearing . 
Amateur Debating in a High Legislative Body . 
He proposed to send him to the Antipodes at the expense of the nation . 
If that minister lived long he would be forced to adopt and advocate in as pretty a manner the policy he was dissecting . 
Lord Munnibagge , a great authority in economic matters , said that a weaker case had never been presented to Parliament . 
To send away Ginx's Baby to a colony at imperial expense was at once to rob the pockets of the rich and to decrease our labor power . 
There was no necessity for it . 
Ginx's Baby could not starve in a country like this . 
had never heard of a case of a baby starving . 
There was no such wide spread distress as was represented by the noble lord . 
Ginx's Baby and all other babies would not then wish to go away . 
People were always making exaggerated statements about the condition of the poor . 
He believed the country , though temporarily depressed by financial collapses , to be in a most healthy state . 
It was absurd to say otherwise , when it was shown by the Board of Trade returns that we were growing richer every day . 
Of course Ginx's Baby must be growing richer with the rest . 
That the population of a country was a great fraction of its wealth was an elementary principle of political economy . 
He thought , from the high rates of wages , that there were not too many but too few laborers in the country . 
He should oppose the motion . 
The noble lord who had rushed unprepared into the arena was unequal to the forces marshalled against him , and withdrew his motion . 
Thus the great debate collapsed . 
The Lords were relieved that an awkward question had so easily been shifted . 
The newspapers on the ministerial side declared that this debate had proved the futility of the Ginx's Baby Expatriation question . 
So able an authority as Lord Munnibagge had established that there was no necessity for the interference of Government in the case of Ginx's Baby or any other babies or persons . 
Meanwhile Ginx's Baby once more decided a turn in his own fate . 
Whether the baronet and the Club were bashful of public ridicule or glad to be rid of the charge , I know not , but no attempt was made to recover him . 
PART V. WHAT GINX'S BABY DID WITH HIMSELF . 
A full formed Horse will , in any market , bring from twenty to as high as two hundred Friedrichs d'or such is his worth to the world . 
A full formed Man is not only worth nothing to the world , but the world could afford him a round sum would he simply engage to go and hang himself . 
Our hero was nearly fifteen years old when he left the Club to plunge into the world . 
He was not long in converting his spoils into money , and a very short time in spending it . 
Then he had to pit his wits against starvation , and some of his throws were desperate . 
Wherever he went the world seemed terribly full . 
If he answered an advertisement for an errand boy , there were a score kicking their heels at the rendezvous before him . 
Did he try to learn a useful trade , thousands of adepts were not only ready to underbid him , but to knock him on the head for an interloper . 
Even the thieves , to whom he gravitated , were jealous of his accession , because there were too many competitors already in their department . 
I did not then know what form it was that swilled down below the glistening current . 
