Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com The Golden Age By Kenneth Grahame 'T IS OPPORTUNE TO LOOK BACK UPON OLD TIMES , AND CONTEMPLATE OUR FOREFATHERS . 
GREAT EXAMPLES GROW THIN , AND TO BE FETCHED FROM THE PASSED WORLD . 
SIMPLICITY FLIES AWAY , AND INIQUITY COMES AT LONG STRIDES UPON US . 
But to those whose nearest were aunts and uncles , a special attitude of mind may be allowed . 
, and therewith the commonplace conviction that your child is merely animal . 
that , having absolute licence to indulge in the pleasures of life , they could get no good of it . 
No irresistible Energy haled them to church o' Sundays yet they went there regularly of their own accord , though they betrayed no greater delight in the experience than ourselves . 
On the whole , the existence of these Olympians seemed to be entirely void of interests , even as their movements were confined and slow , and their habits stereotyped and senseless . 
To anything but appearances they were blind . 
simply produced so many apples and cherries or it didn't , when the failures of Nature were not infrequently ascribed to us . 
They never set foot within fir wood or hazel copse , nor dreamt of the marvels hid therein . 
The mysterious sources sources as of old Nile that fed the duck pond had no magic for them . 
, though the whole place swarmed with such portents . 
They cared not about exploring for robbers' caves , nor digging for hidden treasure . 
Perhaps , indeed , it was one of their best qualities that they spent the greater part of their time stuffily indoors . 
I trust he is a bishop by this time , he had all the necessary qualifications , as we knew . 
Then brute force was pitilessly applied . 
We were captured , washed , and forced into clean collars silently submitting , as was our wont , with more contempt than anger . 
Anon , with unctuous hair and faces stiffened in a conventional grin , we sat and listened to the usual platitudes . 
We illuminati , eating silently , our heads full of plans and conspiracies , could have told them what real life was . 
We had just left it outside , and were all on fire to get back to it . 
Of course we didn't waste the revelation on them the futility of imparting our ideas had long been demonstrated . 
This strange anaemic order of beings was further removed from us , in fact , than the kindly beasts who shared our natural existence in the sun . 
, I was ready , after a moment's reflection , to own I was wrong , as a gentleman should . 
But was the matter allowed to end there ? I trow not . 
A word would have set all right but of course that word was never spoken . 
Well ! The Olympians are all past and gone . 
Somehow the sun does not seem to shine so brightly as it used the trackless meadows of old time have shrunk and dwindled away to a few poor acres . 
A saddening doubt , a dull suspicion , creeps over me . 
Et in Arcadia ego , I certainly did once inhabit Arcady . 
Can it be I too have become an Olympian ? A HOLIDAY . 
The masterful wind was up and out , shouting and chasing , the lord of the morning . 
Poplars swayed and tossed with a roaring swish dead leaves sprang aloft , and whirled into space and all the clear swept heaven seemed to thrill with sound like a great harp . 
It was one of the first awakenings of the year . 
The earth stretched herself , smiling in her sleep and everything leapt and pulsed to the stir of the giant's movement . 
With us it was a whole holiday the occasion a birthday it matters not whose . 
But the holiday was for all , the rapture of awakening Nature for all , the various outdoor joys of puddles and sun and hedge breaking for all . 
Colt like I ran through the meadows , frisking happy heels in the face of Nature laughing responsive . 
Out into the brimming sun bathed world I sped , free of lessons , free of discipline and correction , for one day at least . 
My legs ran of themselves , and though I heard my name called faint and shrill behind , there was no stopping for me . 
It was only Harold , I concluded , and his legs , though shorter than mine , were good for a longer spurt than this . 
Then I heard it called again , but this time more faintly , with a pathetic break in the middle and I pulled up short , recognising Charlotte's plaintive note . 
She panted up anon , and dropped on the turf beside me . 
Neither had any desire for talk the glow and the glory of existing on this perfect morning were satisfaction full and sufficient . 
Where's Harold I asked presently . 
Oh , he's just playin' muffin man , as usual , said Charlotte with petulance . 
He's coming along by the road , said Charlotte . 
All right , I said magnanimously . 
Come on and let's be surprised . 
But I could not help feeling that on this day of days even a grizzly felt misplaced and common . 
Shouldn't do anything , I observed after consideration and really it would be difficult to arrive at a wiser conclusion . 
Ah , but how are you to know a good lion from a bad one ? said Edward . 
The books don't tell you at all , and the lions ain't marked any different . 
Why , there aren't any good lions , said Harold , hastily . 
Oh yes , there are , heaps and heaps , contradicted Edward . 
Nearly all the lions in the story books are good lions . 
There was Androcles' lion , and St . 
Jerome's lion , and and the Lion and the Unicorn He beat the Unicorn , observed Harold , dubiously , all round the town . 
That PROVES he was a good lion , cried Edwards triumphantly . 
But the question is , how are you to tell 'em when you see 'em ? I should ask Martha , said Harold of the simple creed . 
Edward snorted contemptuously , then turned to Charlotte . 
I know your lions ! No , I won't I swear I won't , protested Edward . 
I'll be quite a new lion this time , something you can't even imagine . 
And he raced off to his post . 
Charlotte hesitated then she went timidly on , at each step growing less Charlotte , the mummer of a minute , and more the anxious Pilgrim of all time . 
The lion's wrath waxed terrible at her approach his roaring filled the startled air . 
I waited until they were both thoroughly absorbed , and then I slipped through the hedge out of the trodden highway , into the vacant meadow spaces . 
Humanity would have rejected it with scorn , Nature , everywhere singing in the same key , recognised and accepted it without a flicker of dissent . 
All the time the hearty wind was calling to me companionably from where he swung and bellowed in the tree tops . 
Take me for guide to day , he seemed to plead . 
A whimsical comrade I found him , ere he had done with me . 
There was indeed some reconciling influence abroad , which could bring the like antics into harmony with bud and growth and the frolic air . 
Though the rest was hidden , I knew the legs well enough they were usually attached to the body of Bill Saunders , the peerless bad boy of the village . 
Bill's coveted booty , too , I could easily guess at that it came from the Vicar's store of biscuits , kept in a cupboard along with his official trappings . 
For a moment I hesitated then I passed on my way . 
He was tugging at me anew , my insistent guide and I felt sure , as I rambled off in his wake , that he had more holiday matter to show me . 
And so , indeed , he had and all of it was to the same lawless tune . 
By the time I got there a whisk of feathers on the turf like scattered playbills was all that remained to tell of the tragedy just enacted . 
Yet Nature smiled and sang on , pitiless , gay , impartial . 
To her , who took no sides , there was every bit as much to be said for the hawk as for the chaffinch . 
Both were her children , and she would show no preferences . 
Further on , a hedgehog lay dead athwart the path nay , more than dead decadent , distinctly a sorry sight for one that had known the fellow in more bustling circumstances . 
But not a bit of it ! Jubilant as ever , her song went bubbling on , and Death in Life , and again , Life in Death , were its alternate burdens . 
For when at last he grew weary of such insignificant earthbound company , he deserted me at a certain spot I knew then dropped , subsided , and slunk away into nothingness . 
And outside our gate I found Charlotte , alone and crying . 
Harold , it further appeared , greatly coveting tadpoles , and top heavy with the eagerness of possession , had fallen into the pond . 
And my frame of mind was such , that I could only wish most heartily that I had done it . 
A WHITE WASHED UNCLE In our small lives that day was eventful when another uncle was to come down from town , and submit his character and qualifications to our careful criticism . 
Previous uncles had been weighed in the balance , and alas ! found grievously wanting . 
There was Uncle Thomas a failure from the first . 
It was no good we could not discover any salt in them . 
And as only a genuine gift of humour could have saved Uncle Thomas , for he pretended to naught besides , he was reluctantly writ down a hopeless impostor . 
Uncle George the youngest was distinctly more promising . 
Uncle George's manner at once underwent a complete and contemptible change . 
But despicable as his conduct had been , he underwent no hasty condemnation . 
The defection was discussed in all its bearings , but it seemed sadly clear at last that this uncle must possess some innate badness of character and fondness for low company . 
No Uncle George had fallen from grace , and was unanimously damned . 
And the non arrival of the Himalayan rabbits was only another nail in his coffin . 
Uncles , therefore , were just then a heavy and lifeless market , and there was little inclination to deal . 
Indeed , the cloud never really lifted during his stay . 
Selina roundly declared him a beast , pointing out that he had not even got us a half holiday and , indeed , there seemed little to do but to pass sentence . 
We were about to put it , when Harold appeared on the scene his red face , round eyes , and mysterious demeanour , hinting at awful portents . 
Then Harold told his tale . 
Buy what you like make little beasts of yourselves only don't tell the old people , mind ! Now cut away home ! So I cut . 
A solemn hush fell on the assembly , broken first by the small Charlotte . 
I didn't know , she observed dreamily , that there were such good men anywhere in the world . 
And that'll show we're sorry for our mistake ! I I christened that pig this morning , Harold guiltily confessed I christened it after the curate . 
We'll take that christening off , and call it Uncle William . 
And you can save up the curate for the next litter ! And the motion being agreed to without a division , the House went into Committee of Supply . 
The fact is , I was lazy , and the call to arms fell on indifferent ears . 
We three younger ones were stretched at length in the orchard . 
had there been such wealth and riot of buttercups throughout the lush grass . 
Green and gold was the dominant key that day . 
I'll be Lancelot ! I won't play unless I'm Lancelot , I said . 
I didn't mean it really , but the game of Knights always began with this particular contest . 
O PLEASE , implored Harold . 
You know when Edward's here I never get a chance of being Lancelot . 
I haven't been Lancelot for weeks ! Then I yielded gracefully . 
All right , I said . 
O , but you can't , cried Harold again . 
Charlotte has always been Tristram . 
She won't play unless she's allowed to be Tristram ! Be somebody else this time . 
Charlotte said nothing , but breathed hard , looking straight before her . 
The peerless hunter and harper was her special hero of romance , and rather than see the part in less appreciative hands , she would even have returned sadly to the stuffy schoolroom . 
I don't care , I said I'll be anything . 
What is it ? inquired Tristram , sitting up and shaking out her curls while Lancelot forsook the clanging lists and trotted nimbly to the hedge . 
I stood spell bound for a moment longer , and then , with a cry of Soldiers ! I was off to the hedge , Charlotte picking herself up and scurrying after . 
The moment they were past we were through the hedge and after them . 
Soldiers were not the common stuff of everyday life . 
But this was better , since it could only mean that blows and bloodshed were in the air . 
Is there going to be a battle ? panted Harold , hardly able to keep up for excitement . 
Of course there is , I replied . 
Won't Edward be sorry , puffed Harold , that he's begun that beastly Latin ? It did , indeed , seem hard . 
between four walls while Selina , who ever thrilled ecstatic to a red coat , was struggling with the uncouth German tongue . 
Age , I reflected , carries its penalties . 
It was a grievous disappointment to us that the troop passed through the village unmolested . 
Every cottage , I pointed out to my companions , ought to have been loopholed , and strongly held . 
But no opposition was offered to the soldiers , who , indeed , conducted themselves with a recklessness and a want of precaution that seemed simply criminal . 
At the last cottage a transitory gleam of common sense flickered across me , and , turning on Charlotte , I sternly ordered her back . 
or Roundheads , or what ? I reflected . 
Harold always required direct , straightforward answers not faltering suppositions . 
They won't be Indians , I replied at last nor yet Roundheads . 
There haven't been any Roundheads seen about here for a long time . 
All right , he said Frenchmen'll do but I did hope they'd be Indians . 
If they were going to be Indians , I explained , I I don't think I'd go on . 
Because when Indians take you prisoner they scalp you first , and then burn you at a stake . 
But Frenchmen don't do that sort of thing . 
Are you quite sure ? asked Harold doubtfully . 
The programme was rather attractive . 
I had a stitch in my side , and both Harold's stockings had come down . 
With a sinking at the heart , I began to suspect we had been fooled . 
Are they charging ? cried Harold , weary , but rallying gamely . 
I think not , I replied doubtfully . 
When there's going to be a charge , the officer always makes a speech , and then they draw their swords and the trumpets blow , and but let's try a short cut . 
We may catch them up yet . 
So we struck across the fields and into another road , and pounded down that , and then over more fields , panting , down hearted , yet hoping for the best . 
Not a hint nor a sign of friendly direction or assistance on the dogged white face of it . 
There was no longer any disguising it we were hopelessly lost . 
The small rain continued steadily , the evening began to come on . 
Really there are moments when a fellow is justified in crying and I would have cried too , if Harold had not been there . 
But I dreaded sore lest he should begin again with his questions . 
If ever a god emerged from a machine , it was when this heaven sent friend , recognising us , stopped and jumped out with a cheery hail . 
Harold rushed up to him at once . 
Have you been there ? he cried . 
Was it a jolly fight ? who beat ? were there many people killed ? The doctor appeared puzzled . 
I briefly explained the situation . 
I see , said the doctor , looking grave and twisting his face this way and that . 
Well , the fact is , there isn't going to be any battle to day . 
It's been put off , on account of the change in the weather . 
You will have due notice of the renewal of hostilities . 
And now you'd better jump in and I'll drive you home . 
You've been running a fine rig ! Why , you might have both been taken and shot as spies ! This special danger had never even occurred to us . 
The thrill of it accentuated the cosey homelike feeling of the cushions we nestled into as we rolled homewards . 
in every quarter of the globe . 
THE FINDING OF THE PRINCESS . 
It was the day I was promoted to a tooth brush . 
True , a fellow rebel was wanted and Harold might , as a rule , have been counted on with certainty . 
But just then Harold was very proud . 
In such a matter , girls were worse than useless , as wanting the necessary tenacity of will and contempt for self constituted authority . 
So eventually I slipped through the hedge a solitary protestant , and issued forth on the lane what time the rest of the civilised world was sitting down to lessons . 
Hither the yoke shouldering village folk were wont to come to fill their clinking buckets when the drippings made worms of wet in the thick dust of the road . 
served to prevent the water from slopping over . 
We used to wonder by what magic this strange principle worked , and who first invented the crosses , and whether he got a peerage for it . 
But indeed the well was a centre of mystery , for a hornet's nest was somewhere hard by , and the very thought was fearsome . 
Wasps we knew well and disdained , storming them in their fastnesses . 
At this time neither villagers nor hornets encroached on the stillness lessons , apparently , pervaded all Nature . 
If the lane had been deserted , this was loneliness become personal . 
Here mystery lurked and peeped here brambles caught and held with a purpose of their own , and saplings whipped the face with human spite . 
By this cheery companion I wandered along , conscious of little but that Nature , in providing store of water rats , had thoughtfully furnished provender of right sized stones . 
The excitement of the thing was becoming thrilling . 
A Black Flag must surely be fluttering close by . 
Here was evidently a malignant contrivance of the Pirates , designed to baffle our gun boats when we dashed up stream to shell them from their lair . 
Gone was the brambled waste , gone the flickering tangle of woodland . 
Self confessed it was here , then , at last the Garden of Sleep ! Two things , in those old days , I held in especial distrust gamekeepers and gardeners . 
Seeing , however , no baleful apparitions of either nature , I pursued my way between rich flower beds , in search of the necessary Princess . 
Conditions de clared her presence patently as trumpets without this centre such surroundings could not exist . 
A pavilion , gold topped , wreathed with lush jessamine , beckoned with a special significance over close set shrubs . 
There , if anywhere , She should be enshrined . 
Then you are a water baby , he replied . 
Come along , then , said the grown up man and you too , Water baby come and have something solid . 
I accompanied them , without any feeling of false delicacy . 
The world , as known to me , was spread with food each several mid day , and the particular table one sat at seemed a matter of no importance . 
The palace was very sumptuous and beautiful , just what a palace ought to be and we were met by a stately lady , rather more grownup than the Princess apparently her mother . 
My friend the Man was very kind , and introduced me as the Captain , saying I had just run down from Aldershot . 
I didn't know where Aldershot was , but had no manner of doubt that he was perfectly right . 
As a rule , indeed , grown up people are fairly correct on matters of fact it is in the higher gift of imagination that they are so sadly to seek . 
The lunch was excellent and varied . 
Another gentleman in beautiful clothes a lord , presumably lifted me into a high carved chair , and stood behind it , brooding over me like a Providence . 
The lord a reserved sort of man , I thought took no share in the conversation . 
After lunch I walked on the terrace with the Princess and my friend the Man , and was very proud . 
They laughed again , and my friend suggested I should go down to the pond and look at the gold fish , while they went for a stroll . 
When I woke , the sun had gone in , a chill wind set all the leaves a whispering , and the peacock on the lawn was harshly calling up the rain . 
SAWDUST AND SIN A belt of rhododendrons grew close down to one side of our pond and along the edge of it many things flourished rankly . 
Overhead the monkeys chattered , parrots flashed from bough to bough , strange large blossoms shone around you , and the push and rustle of great beasts moving unseen thrilled you deliciously . 
And if you lay down with your nose an inch or two from the water , it was not long ere the old sense of proportion vanished clean away . 
vanished abruptly , and earth resumed her old dimensions , when the sound of Charlotte's prattle somewhere hard by broke in on my primeval seclusion . 
Propping up her double burden against a friendly stump , she sat down in front of them , as full of worry and anxiety as a Chancellor on a Budget night . 
Her victims , who stared resignedly in front of them , were recognisable as Jerry and Rosa . 
Jerry hailed from far Japan his hair was straight and black his one garment cotton , of a simple blue and his reputation was distinctly bad . 
His head fell on her plump shoulder , causing her to start nervously . 
Now we'll go on , began Charlotte once more . 
Charlotte was not very angry this time . 
The sudden development of tragedy in the story had evidently been too much for the poor fellow . 
Then my eyes were opened , and the full measure of Jerry's infamy became apparent . 
This , then , was what he had been playing up for . 
I resolved to keep him under close observation . 
Jerry didn't seem to care , now he had gained his end , whether the stories lasted out or not . 
If it wasn't so near your bedtime , continued Charlotte , reflectively , I'd tell you a nice story with a bogy in it . 
But you'd be frightened , and you'd dream of bogies all night . 
Her limbs were rigid , her eyes glassy what had Jerry been doing ? It must have been something very bad , for her to take on like that . 
I scrutinised him carefully , while Charlotte ran to comfort the damsel . 
He appeared to be whistling a tune and regarding the scenery . 
If I only possessed Jerry's command of feature , I thought to myself , half regretfully , I would never be found out in anything . 
It's all your fault , Jerry , said Charlotte , reproachfully , when the lady had been restored to consciousness Rosa's as good as gold , except when you make her wicked . 
I'd put you in the corner , only a stump hasn't got a corner wonder why that is ? Thought everything had corners . 
Never mind , you'll have to sit with your face to the wall SO . 
One arm stuck stiffly upwards , as in passionate protestation his amorous countenance was full of entreaty . 
Rosa hesitated wavered and yielded , crushing his slight frame under the weight of her full bodied surrender . 
Charlotte had stood a good deal , but it was possible to abuse even her patience . 
When I looked again , Jerry was sitting up as before his garment , somewhat crumpled , was restored to its original position but his pallid countenance was set hard . 
Knowing as I did , only too well , what a volcano of passion and shame must be seething under that impassive exterior , for the moment I felt sorry for him . 
Rosa's face was still buried in her frock it might have been shame , it might have been grief for Jerry's sufferings . 
But the callous Japanese never even looked her way . 
His heart was exceeding bitter within him . 
In merely following up his natural impulses he had run his head against convention , and learnt how hard a thing it was and the sunshiny world was all black to him . 
Even Charlotte softened somewhat at the sight of his rigid misery . 
If you'll say you're sorry . 
Jerome , she said , I'll say I'm sorry , too . 
Jerry only dropped his shoulders against the stump and stared out in the direction of his dear native Japan , where love was no sin , and smacking had not been introduced . 
Why had he ever left it ? He would go back to morrow and yet there were obstacles another grievance . 
Nature , in endowing Jerry with every grace of form and feature , along with a sensitive soul , had somehow forgotten the gift of locomotion . 
The Black Man had got Jerry at last and though the tear of sensibility might moisten the eye , no one who really knew him could deny the justice of his fate . 
Now , kingdoms might totter and reel , and convulsions change the map of Europe but the iron unwritten law prevailed , that each boy severely fed his own rabbits . 
There was good ground , then , for suspicion and alarm and while the lettuce leaves were being drawn through the wires , Harold and I conferred seriously on the situation . 
It may be thought that the affair was none of our business and indeed we cared little as individuals . 
We were only concerned as members of a corporation , for each of whom the mental or physical ailment of one of his fellows might have far reaching effects . 
It was thought best that Harold , as least open to suspicion of motive , should be despatched to probe and peer . 
He was especially to be very diplomatic , and then to return and report progress . 
He departed on his mission gaily but his absence was short , and his return , discomfited and in tears , seemed to betoken some want of parts for diplomacy . 
at which point Edward , it would seem , had turned upon and savagely maltreated him , twisting his arm and punching him in the short ribs . 
Harold was soon all smiles and grease and I was not , on the whole , dissatisfied with the significant hint that had been gained as to the fons at origo mali . 
Fortunately , means were at hand for resolving any doubts on the subject , since the morning was Sunday , and already the bells were ringing for church . 
Edward's general demeanour , then , during morning service , was safe to convict him but there was also a special test for the particular case . 
The evidence was conclusive a court of law could have desired no better . 
The fact being patent , the next thing was to grapple with it and my mind was fully occupied during the sermon . 
There was really nothing unfair or unbrotherly in my attitude . 
permissible but the volcanic passions in which Edward indulged about once a quarter were a serious interference with business . 
I had sounded him as to the circus on our way to church , and he had replied briefly that the very thought of a clown made him sick . 
Morbidity could no further go . 
By the irony of fate , Aunt Eliza , of all people , turned out to be the Dea ex machina which thing fell out in this wise . 
Much cudgelling of brains , I suppose , had on that particular day made me torpid and unwary . 
Anyhow , when a victim came to be sought for , I fell an easy prey , while the others fled scatheless and whooping . 
Our first visit was to the Larkins . 
Here ceremonial might be viewed in its finest flower , and we conducted ourselves , like Queen Elizabeth when she trod the measure , high and disposedly . 
It's surprising to me , I heard my aunt remark presently , how my eldest nephew , Edward , despises little girls . 
I heard him tell Charlotte the other day that he wished he could exchange her for a pair of Japanese guinea pigs . 
It made the poor child cry . 
Now this boy , my aunt went on , is more human altogether . 
Only yesterday he took his sister to the baker's shop , and spent his only penny buying her sweets . 
I thought it showed such a nice disposition . 
I wish Edward were more like him ! I breathed again . 
It was unnecessary to explain my real motives for that visit to the baker's . 
I felt awfully mean as regarded Edward but what could I do ? I was in Gaza , gagged and bound the Philistines hemmed me in . 
The same evening the storm burst , the bolt fell , and to continue the metaphor the atmosphere grew serene and clear once more . 
and play at Indians and buffaloes with Aunt Eliza's fowls already strolling roostwards , regardless of their doom before that sedately stepping lady could return . 
Edward hung at the door , wavering the suggestion had unhallowed charms . 
A man can stand very much in the cause of love poverty , aunts , rivals , barriers of every sort , all these only serve to fan the flame . 
But personal ridicule is a shaft that reaches the very vitals . 
The crisis was past , and Edward was saved ! . 
If nothing came of it , there was no harm done and if on the contrary . 
Why , she's quite old , I said . 
Of course she is , replied Edward , scornfully . 
It's not her , it's her money he's after , you bet ! Didn't know she had any money , I observed timidly . 
Sure to have , said my brother , with confidence . 
, in the consideration of how such a state of things , supposing it existed , could be best turned to his own advantage . 
Bobby Ferris told me , began Edward in due course , that there was a fellow spooning his sister once What's spooning ? I asked meekly . 
Oh , I dunno , said Edward , indifferently . 
It's it's it's just a thing they do , you know . 
And he used to carry notes and messages and things between 'em , and he got a shilling almost every time . 
What , from each of 'em ? I innocently inquired . 
Edward looked at me with scornful pity . 
Girls never have any money , he briefly explained . 
But she did his exercises and got him out of rows , and told stories for him when he needed it and much better ones than he could have made up for himself . 
Girls are useful in some ways . 
So he was living in clover , when unfortunately they went and quarrelled about something . 
Don't see what that's got to do with it , I said . 
Nor don't I , rejoined Edward . 
But anyhow the notes and things stopped , and so did the shillings . 
Do not fail ! He got all that out of some rotten book , of course . 
The fellow looked puzzled and said , What hollow oak ? I don't know any hollow oak . 
Should think not , I said , the Royal Oak's an awful low sort of pub . 
I know , said Edward . 
Well , at last the fellow said , I think I know what she means the hollow tree in your father's paddock . 
It happens to be an elm , but she wouldn't know the difference . 
All right say I'll be there . 
Bobby hung about a bit , for he hadn't got his money . 
She was crying awfully , he said . 
Then he got his shilling . 
And wasn't the fellow riled , I inquired , when he got to the place and found nothing ? He found Bobby , said Edward , indignantly . 
Young Ferris was a gentleman , every inch of him . 
He brought the fellow another message from Bella I dare not leave the house . 
My cruel parents immure me closely If you only knew what I suffer . 
Out of the same rotten book . 
This made the fellow a little suspicious , 'cos it was the old Ferrises who had been keen about the thing all through the fellow , you see , had tin . 
But what's that got to I began again . 
Oh , I dunno , said Edward , impatiently . 
I'm telling you just what Bobby told me . 
He got suspicious , anyhow , but he couldn't exactly call Bella's brother a liar , so Bobby escaped for the time . 
Somehow women seem more mistrustful than men . 
They're so beastly suspicious by nature , you know . 
If we only knew what they were talking about , said he , you'd soon see whether I was right or not . 
He was naturally rather vexed at being stood up suddenly on the cold floor , and the job had no particular interest for him but he was both staunch and well disciplined . 
The means of exit were simple enough . 
A porch of iron trellis came up to within easy reach of the window , and was habitually used by all three of us , when modestly anxious to avoid public notice . 
A brief interval of silence ensued , broken suddenly by a sound of scuffle , and then a shrill , long drawn squeal , as of metallic surfaces in friction . 
Our scout had fallen into the hands of the enemy ! Indolence alone had made us devolve the task of investigation on our younger brother . 
Now that danger had declared itself , there was no hesitation . 
In a second we were down the side of the porch , and crawling Cherokee wise through the laurels to the back of the garden seat . 
Piteous was the sight that greeted us . 
Aunt Maria was on the seat , in a white evening frock , looking for an aunt really quite nice . 
The gruesome noise he was emitting did not really affect us otherwise than aesthetically . 
To one who has tried both , the wail of genuine physical anguish is easy distinguishable from the pumped up ad misericordiam blubber . 
Harold's could clearly be recognised as belonging to the latter class . 
We abode the promised disclosure without the least misgiving but even we had hardly given Harold due credit for his fertility of resource and powers of imagination . 
The style , though unlike Harold's native notes , seemed strangely familiar . 
Go on , said the curate , grimly . 
Pausing in his stealthy career , continued Harold , he gave a low whistle . 
Instantly the signal was responded to , and from the adjacent shadows two more figures glided forth . 
The miscreants were both armed to the teeth . 
Excellent , said the curate proceed . 
The robber chief , pursued Harold , warming to his work , joined his nefarious comrades , and conversed with them in silent tones . 
Hurry up and have done . 
The burglars vanished silently into the laurels , with horrid implications ! The curate looked slightly puzzled . 
The tale was well sustained , and certainly circumstantial . 
After all , the boy might have really seen something . 
Harold was hard pressed by his own flesh and blood , too ! At that moment Edward touched me on the shoulder and glided off through the laurels . 
When some ten yards away he gave a low whistle . 
Aunt Maria started up with a shriek . 
The curate faced the laurels hesitatingly . 
But Aunt Maria flung herself on him . 
O Mr. Hodgitts ! I heard her cry , you are brave ! for my sake do not be rash ! He was not rash . 
When I peeped out a second later , the coast was entirely clear . 
By this time there were sounds of a household timidly emerging and Edward remarked to me that perhaps we had better be off . 
Retreat was an easy matter . 
The curate's undaunted demeanour , as reported by Aunt Maria , was generally supposed to have terrified the burglars into flight , and much kudos accrued to him thereby . 
A HARVESTING The year was in its yellowing time , and the face of Nature a study in old gold . 
Now he was dreeing his weird , with such assistance as the chemist could afford . 
Another waggon had shot its load , and was jolting out through the rickyard gate , as we swung ourselves in , shouting , over its tail . 
Edward was the first up , and , as I gained my feet , he clutched me in a death grapple . 
I was a privateersman , he proclaimed , and he the captain of the British frigate Terpsichore , of I forget the precise number of guns . 
Edward always collared the best parts to himself but I was holding my own gallantly , when I suddenly discovered that the floor we battled on was swarming with earwigs . 
Shrieking , I hurled free of him , and rolled over the tail board on to the stubble . 
Edward executed a war dance of triumph on the deck of the retreating galleon but I cared little for that . 
I knew HE knew that I wasn't afraid of him , but that I was and terribly of earwigs , those mortal bugs o' the field . 
So I let him disappear , shouting lustily for all hands to repel boarders , while I strolled inland , down the village . 
There was a touch of adventure in the expedition . 
This was not our own village , but a foreign one , distant at least a mile . 
Elated with isolation , I went even more nose in air than usual and even so , I mused , might Mungo Park have threaded the trackless African forest and . 
Here I plumped against a soft , but resisting body . 
Recalled to my senses by the shock , I fell back in the attitude every boy under these circumstances instinctively adopts both elbows well up over the ears . 
His figure was bent in apologetic protest I ask a thousand pardons , sir , he said I am really so very absent minded . 
I trust you will forgive me . 
Now most boys would have suspected chaff under this courtly style of address . 
I take infinite credit to myself for recognising at once the natural attitude of a man to whom his fellows were gentlemen all , neither Jew nor Gentile , clean nor unclean . 
Of course , I took the blame on myself adding , that I was very absent minded too , which was indeed the case . 
I perceive , he said pleasantly , that we have something in common . 
I , an old man , dream dreams you , a young one , see visions . 
Your lot is the happier . 
And now his hand had been resting all this time on a wicket gate you are hot , it is easily seen the day is advanced , Virgo is the Zodiacal sign . 
Perhaps I may offer you some poor refreshment , if your engagements will permit . 
Heaps o' books , Martha , my informant , said but I knew the exact rate of discount applicable to Martha's statements . 
We passed eventually through a dark hall into a room which struck me at once as the ideal I had dreamed but failed to find . 
None of your feminine fripperies here ! None of your chair backs and tidies ! This man , it was seen , groaned under no aunts . 
This I hailed with a squeal of delight . 
O , but may I ? I asked in doubt . 
In ten seconds he was out of sight and call . 
A great book open on his knee , another propped up in front , a score or so disposed within easy reach , he read and jotted with an absorption almost passionate . 
I might have been in Boeotia , for any consciousness he had of me . 
So with a light heart I turned to and strummed . 
Their happiness comes from the concord and the relative value of the notes they handle the pure , absolute quality and nature of each note in itself are only appreciated by the strummer . 
Some bring moonlight , and some the deep crimson of a rose's heart some are blue , some red , and others will tell of an army with silken standards and march music . 
Spent with the rapture , I paused a moment and caught my friend's eye over the edge of a folio . 
You think not ? he rejoined , doubtfully , getting up and walking about the room . 
Well , I applaud such fairness and temperance in so young a critic . 
They are qualities in youth as rare as they are pleasing . 
I saw no trouble at all in the passage , and I said so . 
Precisely , he cried , delighted . 
To you , who possess the natural scholar's faculty in so happy a degree , there is no difficulty at all . 
But to this Schrumpffius But here , luckily for me , in came the housekeeper , a clean looking woman of staid aspect . 
Your tea is in the garden , she said , as if she were correcting a faulty emendation . 
I've put some cakes and things for the little gentleman and you'd better drink it before it gets cold . 
He waved her off and continued his stride , brandishing an aorist over my devoted head . 
The housekeeper waited unmoved till there fell a moment's break in his descant and then , You'd better drink it before it gets cold , she observed again , impassively . 
The wretched man cast a deprecating look at me . 
Perhaps a little tea would be rather nice , he observed , feebly and to my great relief he led the way into the garden . 
I looked about for the little gentleman , but , failing to discover him , I concluded he was absent minded too , and attacked the cakes and things with no misgivings . 
After a most successful and most learned tea a something happened which , small as I was , never quite shook itself out of my memory . 
Morn by morn he started forth with pockets lined and each returning evening found him with never a sou . 
He reviled his eyes , his features , his limbs , his profession , his relatives and surroundings and then slouched off , still oozing malice and filth . 
We watched the party to a turn in the road , where the woman , plainly weary , came to a stop . 
Lonely spaces everywhere , above and around . 
Only Hesperus hung in the sky , solitary , pure , ineffably far drawn and remote yet infinitely heartening , somehow , in his valorous isolation . 
SNOWBOUND Twelfth night had come and gone , and life next morning seemed a trifle flat and purposeless . 
Harold was frankly afraid unabashed , he buried himself in the cook's ample bosom . 
Edward feigned a manly superiority to illusion , and greeted these awful apparitions familiarly , as Dick and Harry and Joe . 
As for me , I was too big to run , too rapt to resist the magic and surprise . 
Heaven only knows how the germ of this dreary pastime first found way into his small boyish being . 
It was his own invention , and he was proportionately proud of it . 
Charlotte was sadly out of spirits . 
she had been gently but firmly informed that no such things as fairies ever really existed . 
Do you mean to say it's all lies ? asked Charlotte , bluntly . 
Miss Smedley deprecated the use of any such unladylike words in any connection at all . 
These stories had their origin , my dear , she explained , in a mistaken anthropomorphism in the interpretation of nature . 
Edward says everything's rot , I explained , now he thinks he's going into the Army . 
If a thing's in a book it MUST be true , so that settles it ! Charlotte looked almost reassured . 
Outside , the tall elm tops were hardly to be seen through the feathery storm . 
The sky's a falling , quoted Charlotte , softly I must go and tell the king . 
The quotation suggested a fairy story , and I offered to read to her , reaching out for the book . 
But the Wee Folk were under a cloud sceptical hints had embittered the chalice . 
That blast , said Balin , is blowen for me , for I am the prize , and yet am I not dead . 
Charlotte began to cry she knew the rest too well . 
I shut the book in despair . 
Harold emerged from behind the arm chair . 
, and he stared wide eyed at his tear stained sister . 
Edward put off his histrionics , and rushed up to her as the consoler a new part for him . 
I know a jolly story , he began . 
Aunt Eliza told it me . 
and there was a fellow there who had got two storks . 
And one stork died it was the she stork . 
And the other stork was quite sorry , and moped , and went on , and got very miserable . 
So they looked about and found a duck , and introduced it to the stork . 
The duck was a drake , but the stork didn't mind , and they loved each other and were as jolly as could be . 
Really Edward's stupid inability to see the real point in anything was TOO annoying ! It was always so . 
Any boy more gleg at the uptak would have met his parents half way , and eased their burden . 
As it was , the matter had to be approached all over again from a fresh standpoint . 
of the mischief he had done , wheeled round on Harold with a shout . 
I want a live dragon , he announced you've got to be my dragon ! Leave me go , will you ? squealed Harold , struggling stoutly . 
I'm playin' at something else . 
The next he was grovelling on the floor . 
No saurian ever swung a tail so scaly and so curly as his . 
Clubland was a thousand years away . 
With horrific pants he emitted smokiest smoke and fiercest fire . 
Now I want a Princess , cried Edward , clutching Charlotte ecstatically and YOU can be the doctor , and heal me from the dragon's deadly wound . 
Of all professions I held the sacred art of healing in worst horror and contempt . 
Cataclysmal memories of purge and draught crowded thick on me , and with Charlotte who courted no barren honours I made a break for the door . 
Edward did likewise , and the hostile forces clashed together on the mat , and for a brief space things were mixed and chaotic and Arthurian . 
The silvery sound of the luncheon bell restored an instant peace , even in the teeth of clenched antagonisms like ours . 
The Holy Grail itself , sliding athwart a sunbeam , never so effectually stilled a riot of warring passions into sweet and quiet accord . 
As in all well regulated families , the usual tariff obtained in ours , half a crown a tooth one shilling only if the molar were a loose one . 
This one , unfortunately in spite of Edward's interested affectation of agony had been shaky undisguised but the event was good enough to run to ginger beer . 
dodging the floating cork fragments with skill and judgment . 
O , it's all very well to say bosh , replied Harold , nettled but every one knows it's true but you . 
And they had to get a fresh bottle up . 
Then she fled like a hare for it was the custom of our Family to meet with physical coercion any independence of action in individuals . 
She's off with those Vicarage girls again , said Edward , regarding Selina's long black legs twinkling down the path . 
Yes but they don't talk about those sort of things at all , persisted Edward . 
I don't believe it , Edward growled . 
Well , that's what she SAID , anyway , rejoined Harold , indifferently . 
The subject did not seem to him of first class importance , and it was hindering the circulation of the ginger beer . 
We heard the click of the front gate . 
Through a gap in the hedge we could see the party setting off down the road . 
What DO they talk about , Charlotte ? I inquired , wishing to pacify Edward . 
You go out with them sometimes . 
I don't know , said poor Charlotte , dolefully . 
They make me walk behind , 'cos they say I'm too little , and mustn't hear . 
And I DO want to so , she added . 
When any lady comes to see Aunt Eliza , said Harold , they both talk at once all the time . 
And yet each of 'em seems to hear what the other one's saying . 
I can't make out how they do it . 
Grown up people are so clever ! The Curate's the funniest man , I remarked . 
He's always saying things that have no sense in them at all , and then laughing at them as if they were jokes . 
Yesterday , when they asked him if he'd have some more tea he said Once more unto the breach , dear friends , once more , and then sniggered all over . 
I didn't see anything funny in that . 
And then somebody asked him about his button hole and he said 'Tis but a little faded flower , and exploded again . 
I thought it very stupid . 
O HIM , said Edward contemptuously he can't help it , you know it's a sort of way he's got . 
But it's these girls I can't make out . 
He's got something better to do . 
And Edward aimed a ginger beer cork at the unruffled beast , who never budged . 
O but rabbits DO talk , interposed Harold . 
I've watched them often in their hutch . 
They put their heads together and their noses go up and down , just like Selina's and the Vicarage girls' . 
Only of course I can t hear what they're saying . 
It was not surprising therefore that the heroes of classic legend , when first we made their acquaintance , failed to win our entire sympathy at once . 
But even in our admonishment we were on his side and as we distrustfully eyed these new arrivals , old Saturn himself seemed something of a parvenu . 
Even strangers , however , if they be good fellows at heart , may develop into sworn comrades and these gay swordsmen , after all , were of the right stuff . 
Ulysses , with his captivating shifts and strategies , broke down the final barrier , and hence forth the band was adopted and admitted into our freemasonry . 
Edward put his worms into his hat , and we strolled along together , discussing high matters of state . 
As we reached the tool shed , strange noises arrested our steps looking in , we perceived Harold , alone , rapt , absorbed , immersed in the special game of the moment . 
Edward strode in upon him . 
What rot are you playing at now ? he demanded sternly . 
Harold flushed up , but stuck to his pig trough like a man . 
I'm Jason , he replied , defiantly and this is the Argo . 
The other fellows are here too , only you can't see them and we're just going through the Hellespont , so don't you come bothering . 
And once more he plied the wine dark sea . 
Edward kicked the pig trough contemptuously . 
Pretty sort of Argo you've got ! said he . 
Harold began to get annoyed . 
I can't help it , he replied . 
It's the best sort of Argo I can manage , and it's all right if you only pretend enough but YOU never could pretend one bit . 
Harold tumbled out of the trough in the excess of his emotion . 
But we aren't allowed to go on the water by ourselves , he cried . 
Charlotte , for her part , had a habit of day dreams , and was as likely as not to fall overboard in one of her rapt musings . 
To be sure , she would dissolve in tears when she found herself left out but even that was better than a watery tomb . 
In fine , the public voice and rightly , perhaps was against the admission of the skirted animal spite the precedent of Atalanta , who was one of the original crew . 
And now , said Edward , who's to ask Farmer Larkin ? I can't last time I saw him he said when he caught me again he'd smack my head . 
I hesitated , for good reasons . 
You know those precious calves of his ? I began . 
All right , he said then we won't ask him at all . 
He'd only be annoyed , and that would be a pity . 
We made our way down to the stream , and captured the farmer's boat without let or hindrance , the enemy being engaged in the hayfields . 
This river , so called , could never be discovered by us in any atlas indeed our Argo could hardly turn in it without risk of shipwreck . 
But to us 't was Orinoco , and the cities of the world dotted its shores . 
Then launching forth from Thessaly , we threaded the Hellespont with shouts , breathlessly dodged the Clashing Rocks , and coasted under the lee of the Siren haunted isles . 
Lemnos was fringed with meadow sweet , dog roses dotted the Mysian shore , and the cheery call of the haymaking folk sounded along the coast of Thrace . 
No basket chairs , shawls , or novels dotted the lawn with colour and on the garden front of the house behind , the blinds were mostly drawn . 
A grey old sun dial dominated the central sward , and we moved towards it instinctively , as the most human thing visible . 
An antique motto ran round it , and with eyes and fingers we struggled at the decipherment . 
TIME TRYETH TROTHE spelt out Harold at last . 
I wonder what that means ? I could not enlighten him , nor meet his further questions as to the inner mechanism of the thing , and where you wound it up . 
I had seen these instruments before , of course , but had never fully understood their manner of working . 
We were still puzzling our heads over the contrivance , when I became aware that Medea herself was moving down the path from the house . 
You needn't take on so about him , I observed , politely . 
He'll cry for just one minute , and then he'll be all right . 
O you boys ! cried Medea , throwing wide her arms with abandonment . 
Girls can play at rounders . 
And we could serve up to the sun dial here . 
But you want a bat and a ball , and some more people . 
She struck her hands together tragically . 
I haven't a bat , she cried , or a ball , or more people , or anything sensible whatever . 
Never mind let's play at hide and seek in the kitchen garden . 
Please , I want to know what that means . 
Medea's face drooped low over the sun dial , till it was almost hidden in her fingers . 
That's what I'm here for , she said presently , in quite a changed , low voice . 
There was silence again in the old garden . 
I felt clumsily helpless and awkward beyond a vague idea of kicking Harold , nothing remedial seemed to suggest itself . 
Lucy ! she said , sharply , in a tone with AUNT writ large over it and Medea started up guiltily . 
You've been crying , said the newcomer , grimly regarding her through spectacles . 
And pray who are these exceedingly dirty little boys ? Friends of mine , aunt , said Medea , promptly , with forced cheerfulness . 
I I've known them a long time . 
I asked them to come . 
You must come indoors , dear , she said , and lie down . 
The sun will give you a headache . 
And you little boys had better run away home to your tea . 
Remember , you should not come to pay visits without your nursemaid . 
Harold had been tugging nervously at my jacket for some time , and I only waited till Medea turned and kissed a white hand to us as she was led away . 
We gained the boat in safety and What an old dragon ! said Harold . 
Wasn't she a beast ! I replied . 
Fancy the sun giving any one a headache ! But Medea was a real brick . 
Couldn't we carry her off ? We could if Edward was here , said Harold , confidently . 
The question was , What had become of that defaulting hero ? We were not left long in doubt . 
First , there came down the lane the shrill and wrathful clamour of a female tongue , then Edward , running his best , and then an excited woman hard on his heel . 
That was just like a bit out of Westward Ho ! I remarked approvingly , as we sculled down the stream . 
But what had you been doing to her ? Hadn't been doing anything , panted Edward , still breathless . 
I went up into the village and explored , and it was a very nice one , and the people were very polite . 
And there was a blacksmith's forge there , and they were shoeing horses , and the hoofs fizzled and smoked , and smelt so jolly ! I stayed there quite a long time . 
Edward was so full of his personal injuries that there was no interesting him in Medea at all . 
Moreover , the evening was closing in , and it was evident that this cutting out expedition must be kept for another day . 
Enjoining silence , he waited till we were but a little way from the fated landing place , and then brought us in to the opposite bank . 
We scrambled out noiselessly , and the gathering darkness favouring us crouched behind a willow , while Edward pushed off the empty boat with his foot . 
We wondered , as we listened , where Farmer Larkin , who was bucolically bred and reared , had acquired such range and wealth of vocabulary . 
Edward was anxious to wait and exchange cour tesies and compliments with the disappointed farmer , when he should confront us on the opposite bank but wiser counsels prevailed . 
Edward held but a low opinion of me as a counsellor but he had a very solid respect for Ulysses . 
A loiterer you had need to be , did you choose one of them , so many were the tiny hands thrust out to detain you , from this side and that . 
Grown up people sometimes spoke of it as the Pilgrims' Way but I didn't know much about pilgrims , except Walter in the Horselberg story . 
All roads lead to Rome , I had once heard somebody say and I had taken the remark very seriously , of course , and puzzled over it many days . 
There must have been some mistake , I concluded at last but of one road at least I intuitively felt it to be true . 
Rome ! It was fascinating to think that it lay at the other end of this white ribbon that rolled itself off from my feet over the distant downs . 
I tried to imagine what it would be like when I got there . 
The Coliseum I knew , of course , from a woodcut in the history book so to begin with I plumped that down in the middle . 
, Athens , and Glasgow , whose glories the gardener sang but there was a certain sameness in my conception of all of them that Wesleyan chapel would keep cropping up everywhere . 
It was easier to go a building among those dream cities where no limitations were imposed , and one was sole architect , with a free hand . 
Down a delectable street of cloud built palaces I was mentally pacing , when I happened upon the Artist . 
He was seated at work by the roadside , at a point whence the cool large spaces of the downs , juniper studded , swept grandly westwards . 
His attributes proclaimed him of the artist tribe besides , he wore knickerbockers like myself , a garb confined , I was aware , to boys and artists . 
Pleasant place , Rome , he murmured you'll like it . 
It was some minutes later that he added But I wouldn't go just now , if I were you , too jolly hot . 
YOU haven't been to Rome , have you ? I inquired . 
Rather , he replied , briefly I live there . 
This was too much , and my jaw dropped as I struggled to grasp the fact that I was sitting there talking to a fellow who lived in Rome . 
Speech was out of the question besides , I had other things to do . 
Well , he said , good naturedly overlooking the slight rudeness of my query , I live there as much as l live anywhere , about half the year sometimes . 
I've got a sort of a shanty there . 
You must come and see it some day . 
But do you live anywhere else as well ? I went on , feeling the forbidden tide of questions surging up within me . 
O yes , all over the place , was his vague reply . 
And I've got a diggings somewhere off Piccadilly . 
Where's that ? I inquired . 
Where's what ? said he . 
Oh , Piccadilly ! It's in London . 
There's a goat , though , not far off , and sometimes I talk to him when I'm feeling lonely but he's very proud . 
Goats ARE proud , I admitted . 
There's one lives near here , and if you say anything to him at all , he hits you in the wind with his head . 
You know what it feels like when a fellow hits you in the wind ? I do , well , he replied , in a tone of proper melancholy , and painted on . 
And have you been to any other places , I began again , presently , besides Rome and Piccy what's his name ? Heaps , he said . 
I'm a sort of Ulysses seen men and cities , you know . 
In fact , about the only place I never got to was the Fortunate Island . 
I began to like this man . 
He answered your questions briefly and to the point , and never tried to be funny . 
I felt I could be confidential with him . 
Wouldn't you like , I inquired , to find a city without any people in it at all ? He looked puzzled . 
I'm afraid I don't quite understand , said he . 
That WOULD be a nice city , he said . 
You can't do that sort of thing in Rome , or in Piccadilly either . 
But I fear it's one of the places I've never been to . 
So you wouldn't have any relations ? said the artist . 
Well , perhaps you're right . 
We have tastes in common , I see . 
I'd have Harold , I said , reflectively , and Charlotte . 
The others are getting too old . 
Oh , and Martha I'd have Martha , to cook and wash up and do things . 
She's ever so much nicer than Aunt Eliza . 
She's my idea of a real lady . 
I'm afraid it hasn't got a name yet . 
The artist gazed out over the downs . 
You don't know him , I suppose you will some day . 
Who's he ? I inquired . 
Oh , just another fellow who lived in Rome , he replied , dabbing away . 
O dear ! I cried , disconsolately . 
What a lot of people seem to live at Rome , and I've never even been there ! But I think I'd like MY city best . 
And so would I , he replied with unction . 
But Marcus Aurelius wouldn't , you know . 
Then we won't invite him , I said , will we ? I won't if you won't , said he . 
And that point being settled , we were silent for a while . 
They won't talk much about it only broken hints , now and then but they've been there sure enough . 
Gone back , I suppose . 
But I've known people , too , who've gone there . 
The artist stared , but without incivility . 
Well , there's Lancelot , I went on . 
The book says he died , but it never seemed to read right , somehow . 
He just went away , like Arthur . 
And Crusoe , when he got tired of wearing clothes and being respectable . 
And all the nice men in the stones who don't marry the Princess , 'cos only one man ever gets married in a book , you know . 
I felt very low we would have to part , it seemed , just as we were getting on so well together . 
Then he stood up , and he was very straight and tall , and the sunset was in his hair and beard as he stood there , high over me . 
He took my hand like an equal . 
I've enjoyed our conversation very much , he said . 
That was an interesting subject you started , and we haven't half exhausted it . 
We shall meet again , I hope . 
Of course we shall , I replied , surprised that there should be any doubt about it . 
In Rome , perhaps ? said he . 
Yes , in Rome , I answered , or Piccy the other place , or somewhere . 
Or else , said he , in that other city , when we've found the way there . 
And I'll look out for you , and you'll sing out as soon as you see me . 
Oh , but you'll stay in my house , won't you ? I cried wouldn't ask everybody but I'll ask YOU . 
He affected to consider a moment then Right ! he said I believe you mean it , and I WILL come and stay with you . 
I won't go to anybody else , if they ask me ever so much . 
And I'll stay quite a long time , too , and I won't be any trouble . 
Upon this compact we parted , and I went down heartedly from the man who understood me , back to the house where I never could do anything right . 
Meantime , there only remained the finding it , an easy matter . 
THE SECRET DRAWER IT must surely have served as a boudoir for the ladies of old time , this little used , rarely entered chamber where the neglected old bureau stood . 
Those aunts of a former generation I sometimes felt would have suited our habits better . 
But even by us children , to whom few places were private or reserved , the room was visited but rarely . 
Uncle Thomas was the first to draw my attention to the possibilities of the old bureau . 
H'm ! Sheraton ! he remarked . 
Then he let down the flap , and examined the empty pigeon holes and dusty panelling . 
Fine bit of inlay , he went on good work , all of it . 
There's a secret drawer in there somewhere . 
First , there was the pipe I wanted to give George Jannaway . 
I thought it so nice of George to think of me at the fair , and that's why I wanted to give him a pipe . 
for a less sum than eighteen pence . 
My only hope now lay in the magic drawer , and here I was standing and letting the precious minutes slip by . 
Whether findings of this sort could , morally speaking , be considered keepings , was a point that did not occur to me . 
The room was very still as I approached the bureau , possessed , it seemed to be , by a sort of hush of expectation . 
Even so , ere this , the pot pourri had mixed itself with the tints of the old brocade , and brocade and pot pourri had long been one . 
With expectant fingers I explored the empty pigeon holes and sounded the depths of the softly sliding drawers . 
No books that I knew of gave any general recipe for a quest like this but the glory , should I succeed unaided , would be all the greater . 
I pocketed the treasure carefully and proceeded . 
At the back of another drawer , three old foreign stamps told me I was surely on the highroad to fortune . 
Following on these bracing incentives , came a dull blank period of unrewarded search . 
In vain I removed all the drawers and felt over every inch of the smooth surfaces , from front to back . 
Never a knob , spring or projection met the thrilling finger tips unyielding the old bureau stood , stoutly guarding its secret , if secret it really had . 
I began to grow weary and disheartened . 
This was not the first time that Uncle Thomas had proved shallow , uninformed , a guide into blind alleys where the echoes mocked you . 
Disillusioned and depressed , I left my work and went to the window . 
The light was ebbing from the room , and outside seemed to be collecting itself on the horizon for its concentrated effort of sunset . 
Far down the garden , Uncle Thomas was holding Edward in the air reversed , and smacking him . 
Edward , gurgling hysterically , was striking blind fists in the direction where he judged his uncle's stomach should rightly be the contents of his pockets a motley show were strewing the lawn . 
Somehow , though I had been put through a similar performance an hour or two ago , myself , it all seemed very far away and cut off from me . 
Somewhere very far off , a horn was being blown , clear and thin it sounded like the golden streak grown audible , while the gold seemed the visible sound . 
I drew it out and carried it to the window , to examine it in the failing light . 
No ingots or dollars were here , to crown me the little Monte Cristo of a week . 
Outside , the distant horn had ceased its gnat song , the gold was paling to primrose , and everything was lonely and still . 
Within , my confident little castles were tumbling down like card houses , leaving me stripped of estate , both real and personal , and dominated by the depressing reaction . 
Also , a ferret's muzzle , and a twist of tarry string , still faintly aromatic . 
It was a real boy's hoard , then , that I had happened upon . 
I restored the drawer , with its contents , to the trusty bureau , and heard the spring click with a certain satisfaction . 
Some other boy , perhaps , would some day release that spring again . 
I trusted he would be equally appreciative . 
As I opened the door to go , I could hear from the nursery at the end of the passage shouts and yells , telling that the hunt was up . 
Bears , apparently , or bandits , were on the evening bill of fare , judging by the character of the noises . 
In another minute I would be in the thick of it , in all the warmth and light and laughter . 
The time that remained had been taken up by the planning of practical expressions of the popular sentiment . 
I was awakened by Harold digging me in the ribs , and She's going to day ! was the morning hymn that scattered the clouds of sleep . 
Strange to say , it was with no corresponding jubilation of spirits that I slowly realised the momentous fact . 
Indeed , as I dressed , a dull disagreeable feeling that I could not define grew within me something like a physical bruise . 
But I crossly bade him look sharp and say his prayers and not bother me . 
I touched him on the shoulder . 
She's going to day ! I said . 
Edward's carol subsided like a water tap turned off . 
So she is ! he replied , and got down at once off the gate and we returned to the house without another word . 
At breakfast Miss Smedley behaved in a most mean and uncalled for manner . 
The right divine of governesses to govern wrong includes no right to cry . 
In thus usurping the prerogative of their victims , they ignore the rules of the ring , and hit below the belt . 
Charlotte was crying , of course but that counted for nothing . 
Charlotte even cried when the pigs' noses were ringed in due season thereby evoking the cheery contempt of the operators , who asserted they liked it , and doubtless knew . 
But when the cloud compeller , her bolts laid aside , resorted to tears , mutinous humanity had a right to feel aggrieved , and placed in a false and difficult position . 
What would the Romans have done , supposing Hannibal had cried ? History has not even considered the possibility . 
Rules and precedents should be strictly observed on both sides when they are violated , the other party is justified in feeling injured . 
But this thing was not to be and I was free to stroll by myself through the garden , and combat , as best I might , this growing feeling of depression . 
It was a wrong system altogether , I thought , this going of people one had got used to . 
Things ought always to continue as they had been . 
Did you come to love a pig , and he was taken from you , grief was quickly assuaged in the delight of selection from the new litter . 
But now , when it was no question of a peerless pig , but only of a governess , Nature seemed helpless , and the future held no litter of oblivion . 
Edward slouched up alongside of me presently , with a hang dog look on him , as if he had been caught stealing jam . 
What a lark it'll be when she's really gone ! he observed , with a swagger obviously assumed . 
Grand fun ! I replied , dolorously and conversation flagged . 
We reached the hen house , and contemplated the banner of freedom lying ready to flaunt the breezes at the supreme moment . 
Shall you run it up , I asked , when the fly starts , or or wait a little till it's out of sight ? Edward gazed around him dubiously . 
We're going to have some rain , I think , he said and and it's a new flag . 
It would be a pity to spoil it . 
P'raps I won't run it up at all . 
Harold came round the corner like a bison pursued by Indians . 
Don't touch the gunpowder till you're told , or you'll get your head smacked . 
Harold fell behind , limp , squashed , obedient . 
She wants me to write to her , he began , presently . 
Says she doesn't mind the spelling , it I'll only write . 
Fancy her saying that ! Oh , shut up , will you ? said Edward , savagely and once more we were silent , with only our thoughts for sorry company . 
Let's go off to the copse , I suggested timidly , feeling that something had to be done to relieve the tension , and cut more new bows and arrows . 
She gave me a knife my last birthday , said Edward , moodily , never budging . 
It wasn't much of a knife but I wish I hadn't lost it . 
When my legs used to ache , I said , she sat up half the night , rubbing stuff on them . 
I forgot all about that till this morning . 
There's the fly ! cried Harold suddenly . 
I can hear it scrunching on the gravel . 
Then for the first time we turned and stared one another in the face . 
From out the frosted cake of our existence Fate had cut an irreplaceable segment turn which way we would , the void was present . 
At the end of an hour or so , I was joined by Edward . 
I've been chopping up wood , he explained , in a guilty sort of way , though nobody had called on him to account for his doings . 
What for ? I inquired , stupidly . 
There's piles and piles of it chopped up already . 
I know , said Edward but there's no harm in having a bit over . 
You never can tell what may happen . 
Good gardeners always tell you that's the right thing to do . 
It did look like rain at one time , Edward admitted but it's passed off now . 
Very queer weather we're having . 
I suppose that's why I've felt so funny all day . 
Yes , I suppose it's the weather , I replied . 
I've been feeling funny too . 
The weather had nothing to do with it , as we well knew . 
But we would both have died rather than have admitted the real reason . 
A pretty dream , nothing more . 
There was much of the tempestuous March weather in the hearts of both of us , as we sullenly glowered along the carriage windows of the slackening train . 
One is apt , however , to misjudge the special difficulties of a situation and the reception proved , after all , an easy and informal matter . 
He had taken his line , and meant to stick to it . 
Meantime our friend had made an imaginary spy glass out of his fist , and was squinting through it at something I could not perceive . 
What an exquisite bit ! he burst out fifteenth century , no , yes , it is ! I began to feel puzzled , not to say alarmed . 
It reminded me of the butcher in the Arabian Nights , whose common joints , displayed on the shop front , took to a startled public the appearance of dismembered humanity . 
This man seemed to see the strangest things in our dull , familiar surroundings . 
I'll take you over to Farmer Cox's to morrow , if he's a friend of yours but there's nothing to see there . 
These familiar fields and farms , of which we knew every blade and stick , had done nothing that I knew of to be bespattered with adjectives in this way . 
I had never thought of them as divine , unique , or anything else . 
They were well , they were just themselves , and there was an end of it . 
Despairingly I jogged Edward in the ribs , as a sign to start rational conversation , but he only grinned and continued obdurate . 
Needless to say , he exploded with a full charge of adjectives . 
Oh , but there must be more than bats , he cried . 
Don't tell me there are no ghosts . 
I shall be deeply disappointed if there aren't any ghosts . 
I did not think it worth while to reply , feeling really unequal to this sort of conversation besides , we were nearing the house , when my task would be ended . 
By the time we returned , our new importation had gone up to dress for dinner , so till the morrow at least we were free of him . 
In the bright moonlight , wind swung branches tossed and swayed eerily across the blinds there was rumbling in chimneys , whistling in keyholes , and everywhere a clamour and a call . 
Sleep was out of the question , and , sitting up in bed , I looked round . 
I was wondering when you were going to wake , he said . 
It's no good trying to sleep through this . 
I vote we get up and do something . 
I'm game , I replied . 
and we can be wrecked on an island , or left on a raft , whichever you choose but I like an island best myself , because there's more things on it . 
Edward on reflection negatived the idea . 
It would make too much noise , he pointed out . 
There's no fun playing at ships , unless you can make a jolly good row . 
The door creaked , and a small figure in white slipped cautiously in . 
Thought I heard you talking , said Charlotte . 
We don't like it we're afraid Selina too . 
She'll be here in a minute . 
She's putting on her new dressing gown she's so proud of . 
His arms round his knees , Edward cogitated deeply until Selina appeared , barefooted , and looking slim and tall in the new dressing gown . 
Then , Look here , he exclaimed now we're all together , I vote we go and explore ! You're always wanting to explore , I said . 
What on earth is there to explore for in this house ? Biscuits ! said the inspired Edward . 
Hooray ! Come on ! chimed in Harold , sitting up suddenly . 
He had been awake all the time , but had been shamming asleep , lest he should be fagged to do anything . 
It was indeed a fact , as Edward had remembered , that our thoughtless elders occasionally left the biscuits out , a prize for the night walking adventurer with nerves of steel . 
Edward tumbled out of bed , and pulled a baggy old pair of knickerbockers over his bare shanks . 
Our commander now enjoined on us a silence deep as the grave , reminding us that Aunt Eliza usually slept with an open door , past which we had to file . 
But we'll take the short cut through the Blue Room , said the wary Selina . 
Of course , said Edward , approvingly . 
It was rarely occupied , except when a casual uncle came down for the night . 
We entered in noiseless file , the room being plunged in darkness , except for a bright strip of moonlight on the floor , across which we must pass for our exit . 
On this our leading lady chose to pause , seizing the opportunity to study the hang of her new dressing gown . 
Greatly satisfied thereat , she proceeded , after the feminine fashion , to peacock and to pose , pacing a minuet down the moonlit patch with an imaginary partner . 
This was too much for Edward's histrionic instincts , and after a moment's pause he drew his single stick , and with flourishes meet for the occasion , strode onto the stage . 
A struggle ensued on approved lines , at the end of which Selina was stabbed slowly and with unction , and her corpse borne from the chamber by the ruthless cavalier . 
It's a funny thing , said Edward , as we chatted , how I hate this room in the daytime . 
It always means having your face washed , and your hair brushed , and talking silly company talk . 
But to night it's really quite jolly . 
I never can make out I said , what people come here to tea for . 
You don't know anything about it , she said . 
In society you have to call on each other . 
It's the proper thing to do . 
Pooh ! YOU'RE not in society , said Edward , politely and , what's more , you never will be . 
Yes , I shall , some day , retorted Selina but I shan't ask you to come and see me , so there ! Wouldn't come if you did , growled Edward . 
Well , you won't get the chance , rejoined our sister , claiming her right of the last word . 
There was no heat about these little amenities , which made up as we understood it the art of polite conversation . 
I don 't like society people , put in Harold from the sofa , where he was sprawling at full length , a sight the daylight hours would have blushed to witness . 
There were some of 'em here this afternoon , when you two had gone off to the station . 
Don't know why she couldn't pick it herself but I said , All right , I will if you'll hold my mouse . 
But she screamed , and threw it away and Augustus got it , and ran away with it . 
Our vacant beds seemed to be calling to us imperiously and we were all glad when Edward gave the signal for retreat . 
At the top of the staircase Harold unexpectedly turned mutinous , insisting on his right to slide down the banisters in a free country . 
Snug in bed at last , I was just slipping off into slumber when I heard Edward explode , with chuckle and snort . 
By Jove ! he said I forgot all about it . 
On returning to the house at the fated hour appointed for study , we were thunderstruck to see the station cart disappearing down the drive , freighted with our new acquaintance . 
Aunt Eliza was brutally uncommunicative but she was overheard to remark casually that she thought the man must be a lunatic . 
In this theory we were only too ready to concur , dismissing thereafter the whole matter from our minds . 
The following particulars were communicated by a young member of the Society , of undoubted probity and earnestness , and are a chronicle of actual and recent experience . 
The fellow was not even original . 
A FALLING OUT Harold told me the main facts of this episode some time later , in bits , and with reluctance . 
It was not a recollection he cared to talk about . 
He knew he was a brute the moment he had done it Selina had not meant to worry , only to comfort and assist . 
But his soul was one raw sore within him , when he found himself shut up in the schoolroom after hours , merely for insisting that times amounted to . 
The injustice of it seemed so flagrant . 
The fit passed directly , his eyes were opened , and his soul sat in the dust as he sorrowfully began to cast about for some atonement heroic enough to salve the wrong . 
Of course poor Selina looked for no sacrifice nor heroics whatever she didn't even want him to say he was sorry . 
If he would only make it up , she would have done the apologising part herself . 
But that was not a boy's way . 
I know what she wants most , said Harold . 
The result worked out as follows s . 
By one uncle , unspent through having been lost for nearly a week turned up at last in the straw of the dog kennel . 
Brought forward , By advance from me on security of next uncle , and failing that , to be called in at Christmas . 
By shaken out of missionary box with the help of a knife blade . 
By bet due from Edward , for walking across the field where Farmer Larkin's bull was , and Edward bet him twopence he wouldn't called in with difficulty . 
By advance from Martha , on no security at all , only you mustn't tell your aunt . 
Total and at last we breathed again . 
The rest promised to be easy . 
Selina had a tea party at five on the morrow , with the chipped old wooden tea things that had served her successive dolls from babyhood . 
Harold would slip off directly after dinner , going alone , so as not to arouse suspicion , as we were not allowed to go into the town by ourselves . 
Then , finally , at five , the rapture of the new tea service , descended from the skies and , retribution made , making up at last , without loss of dignity . 
When next day the hour for action arrived , Harold evaded Olympian attention with an easy modesty born of long practice , and made off for the front gate . 
I saw it all , and although cold reason approved our line of action , instinct told me we were brutes . 
And now the farmer came out in quite a new and unexpected light . 
Never a word did he say of broken fences and hurdles , of trampled crops and harried flocks and herds . 
One would have thought the man had never possessed a head of live stock in his life . 
Really , those Olympians have certain good points , far down in them . 
I shall have to leave off abusing them some day . 
But Harold and I , in our stupid masculine way , thought all her happiness sprang from possession of the long coveted tea service . 
Thus we were rarely taken by surprise , and so were considered by our disappointed elders to be apathetic and to lack the divine capacity for wonder . 
Martha was a trusty soul , but a bad witness for the defence , and we soon had it all out of her . 
The word had gone forth , the school had been selected the necessary sheets were hemming even now and Edward was the designated and appointed victim . 
Unfortunately , the data in our possession were absolutely insufficient , and we knew not whither to turn for exact information . 
Uncle Thomas could have told us all about it , of course he had been there himself , once , in the dim and misty past . 
But an unfortunate conviction , that Nature had intended him for a humourist , tainted all his evidence , besides making it wearisome to hear . 
Again , of such among our contemporaries as we had approached , the trumpets gave forth an uncertain sound . 
According to some , it meant larks , revels , emancipation , and a foretaste of the bliss of manhood . 
According to others , the majority , alas ! it was a private and peculiar Hades , that could give the original institution points and a beating . 
When Edward was observed to be swaggering round with a jaunty air and his chest stuck out , I knew that he was contemplating his future from the one point of view . 
When , on the contrary , he was subdued and unaggressive , and sought the society of his sisters , I recognised that the other aspect was in the ascendant . 
Hitherto I had acted mostly to orders . 
Even when I had devised and counselled any particular devilry , it had been carried out on Edward's approbation , and as eldest at his special risk . 
Henceforward I began to be anxious of the bugbear Responsibility , and to realise what a soul throttling thing it is . 
True , my new position would have its compensations . 
Edward had been masterful exceedingly , imperious , perhaps a little narrow impassioned for hard facts , and with scant sympathy for make believe . 
I should now be free and untrammelled in the conception and carrying out of a scheme , I could accept and reject to better artistic purpose . 
It would , moreover , be needless to be a Radical any more . 
Radical I never was , really , by nature or by sympathy . 
The part had been thrust on me one day , when Edward proposed to foist the House of Lords on our small Republic . 
We others were to be the Commons . 
But in its initial stages the thing wouldn't work properly unless he were first and only Lord . 
Then I put my foot down promptly , and said it was all rot , and I didn't see the good of any House of Lords at all . 
Then you must be a low Radical ! said Edward , with fine contempt . 
The inference seemed hardly necessary , but what could I do ? I accepted the situation , and said firmly , Yes , I was a low Radical . 
In this monstrous character I had been obliged to masquerade ever since but now I could throw it off , and look the world in the face again . 
To Edward this had been nothing he had withstood the impact of Olympus without flinching , like Teneriffe or Atlas unremoved . 
In those fortunate days of old one was free from the hard necessity of transmuting the vague idea into the mechanical inadequate medium of words . 
But the feeling was there , that I might not possess the qualities of character for so delicate a position . 
The unnatural halo round Edward got more pronounced , his own demeanour more responsible and dignified , with the arrival of his new clothes . 
As for the girls , they simply grovelled . 
The Olympians , too , in their uncouth way , by gift of carnal delicacies and such like indulgence , seemed anxious to demonstrate that they had hitherto misjudged this one of us . 
Altogether the situation grew strained and false , and I think a general relief was felt when the end came . 
We all trooped down to the station , of course it is only in later years that the farce of seeing people off is seen in its true colours . 
Edward was the life and soul of the party and if his gaiety struck one at times as being a trifle overdone , it was not a moment to be critical . 
Then suddenly , when we were about half way down , one of the girls fell a snivelling . 
Even so it was with Edward , who turned his head aside , feigning an interest in the landscape . 
It was but for a moment then he recollected the hat he was wearing , a hard bowler , the first of that sort he had ever owned . 
He took it off , examined it , and felt it over . 
Something about it seemed to give him strength , and he was a man once more . 
At the station , Edward's first care was to dispose his boxes on the platform so that every one might see the labels and the lettering thereon . 
We were all dry of conversation by this time , and could only stand round and stare in silence at the victim decked for the altar . 
Very small and white his face looked , on the long side of the retreating train . 
When a crab has lost a leg , his gait is still more awkward than his wont , till Time and healing Nature make him totus teres atque rotundus once more . 
Home at last , Harold suggested one or two occupations of a spicy and contraband flavour , but though we did our manful best there was no knocking any interest out of them . 
Then I suggested others , with the same want of success . 
