Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
uk Gulliver's Travels into Several Remote Nations of the World by Jonathan Swift THE PUBLISHER TO THE READER . 
As given in the original edition . 
The author of these Travels , Mr. Lemuel Gulliver , is my ancient and intimate friend there is likewise some relation between us on the mother's side . 
Before he quitted Redriff , he left the custody of the following papers in my hands , with the liberty to dispose of them as I should think fit . 
I have carefully perused them three times . 
The style is very plain and simple and the only fault I find is , that the author , after the manner of travellers , is a little too circumstantial . 
But I was resolved to fit the work as much as possible to the general capacity of readers . 
However , if my own ignorance in sea affairs shall have led me to commit some mistakes , I alone am answerable for them . 
And if any traveller hath a curiosity to see the whole work at large , as it came from the hands of the author , I will be ready to gratify him . 
As for any further particulars relating to the author , the reader will receive satisfaction from the first pages of the book . 
A LETTER FROM CAPTAIN GULLIVER TO HIS COUSIN SYMPSON . 
Thus much I thought proper to tell you in relation to yourself , and to the trust I reposed in you . 
These , and a thousand other reformations , I firmly counted upon by your encouragement as indeed they were plainly deducible from the precepts delivered in my book . 
, and of abusing the female sex . 
I hear some of our sea YAHOOS find fault with my sea language , as not proper in many parts , nor now in use . 
In my first voyages , while I was young , I was instructed by the oldest mariners , and learned to speak as they did . 
to remove that infernal habit of lying , shuffling , deceiving , and equivocating , so deeply rooted in the very souls of all my species especially the Europeans . 
I have other complaints to make upon this vexatious occasion but I forbear troubling myself or you any further . 
APRIL , PART I. A VOYAGE TO LILLIPUT . 
CHAPTER I. The author gives some account of himself and family . 
His first inducements to travel . 
He is shipwrecked , and swims for his life . 
Gets safe on shore in the country of Lilliput is made a prisoner , and carried up the country . 
My father had a small estate in Nottinghamshire I was the third of five sons . 
When I came back I resolved to settle in London to which Mr. Bates , my master , encouraged me , and by him I was recommended to several patients . 
Having therefore consulted with my wife , and some of my acquaintance , I determined to go again to sea . 
I was surgeon successively in two ships , and made several voyages , for six years , to the East and West Indies , by which I got some addition to my fortune . 
The last of these voyages not proving very fortunate , I grew weary of the sea , and intended to stay at home with my wife and family . 
I removed from the Old Jewry to Fetter Lane , and from thence to Wapping , hoping to get business among the sailors but it would not turn to account . 
After three years expectation that things would mend , I accepted an advantageous offer from Captain William Prichard , master of the Antelope , who was making a voyage to the South Sea . 
We set sail from Bristol , May , , and our voyage was at first very prosperous . 
By an observation , we found ourselves in the latitude of degrees minutes south . 
Twelve of our crew were dead by immoderate labour and ill food the rest were in a very weak condition . 
Six of the crew , of whom I was one , having let down the boat into the sea , made a shift to get clear of the ship and the rock . 
We rowed , by my computation , about three leagues , till we were able to work no longer , being already spent with labour while we were in the ship . 
We therefore trusted ourselves to the mercy of the waves , and in about half an hour the boat was overset by a sudden flurry from the north . 
For my own part , I swam as fortune directed me , and was pushed forward by wind and tide . 
The declivity was so small , that I walked near a mile before I got to the shore , which I conjectured was about eight o'clock in the evening . 
I likewise felt several slender ligatures across my body , from my arm pits to my thighs . 
I could only look upwards the sun began to grow hot , and the light offended my eyes . 
I heard a confused noise about me but in the posture I lay , could see nothing except the sky . 
I lay all this while , as the reader may believe , in great uneasiness . 
, and some on my face , which I immediately covered with my left hand . 
But fortune disposed otherwise of me . 
He acted every part of an orator , and I could observe many periods of threatenings , and others of promises , pity , and kindness . 
by putting my finger frequently to my mouth , to signify that I wanted food . 
I observed there was the flesh of several animals , but could not distinguish them by the taste . 
There were shoulders , legs , and loins , shaped like those of mutton , and very well dressed , but smaller than the wings of a lark . 
I ate them by two or three at a mouthful , and took three loaves at a time , about the bigness of musket bullets . 
They supplied me as fast as they could , showing a thousand marks of wonder and astonishment at my bulk and appetite . 
I then made another sign , that I wanted drink . 
They brought me a second hogshead , which I drank in the same manner , and made signs for more but they had none to give me . 
When I had performed these wonders , they shouted for joy , and danced upon my breast , repeating several times as they did at first , HEKINAH DEGUL . 
Besides , I now considered myself as bound by the laws of hospitality , to a people who had treated me with so much expense and magnificence . 
After some time , when they observed that I made no more demands for meat , there appeared before me a person of high rank from his imperial majesty . 
and then to my own head and body , to signify that I desired my liberty . 
However , he made other signs to let me understand that I should have meat and drink enough , and very good treatment . 
Upon this , the HURGO and his train withdrew , with much civility and cheerful countenances . 
These circumstances , added to the refreshment I had received by their victuals and drink , which were very nourishing , disposed me to sleep . 
that plenty of meat and drink should be sent to me , and a machine prepared to carry me to the capital city . 
This resolution perhaps may appear very bold and dangerous , and I am confident would not be imitated by any prince in Europe on the like occasion . 
These people are most excellent mathematicians , and arrived to a great perfection in mechanics , by the countenance and encouragement of the emperor , who is a renowned patron of learning . 
This prince has several machines fixed on wheels , for the carriage of trees and other great weights . 
Five hundred carpenters and engineers were immediately set at work to prepare the greatest engine they had . 
It was a frame of wood raised three inches from the ground , about seven feet long , and four wide , moving upon twenty two wheels . 
The shout I heard was upon the arrival of this engine , which , it seems , set out in four hours after my landing . 
It was brought parallel to me , as I lay . 
But the principal difficulty was to raise and place me in this vehicle . 
All this I was told for , while the operation was performing , I lay in a profound sleep , by the force of that soporiferous medicine infused into my liquor . 
The next morning at sunrise we continued our march , and arrived within two hundred yards of the city gates about noon . 
The emperor , and all his court , came out to meet us but his great officers would by no means suffer his majesty to endanger his person by mounting on my body . 
In this edifice it was determined I should lodge . 
The great gate fronting to the north was about four feet high , and almost two feet wide , through which I could easily creep . 
Over against this temple , on the other side of the great highway , at twenty feet distance , there was a turret at least five feet high . 
Here the emperor ascended , with many principal lords of his court , to have an opportunity of viewing me , as I was told , for I could not see them . 
But a proclamation was soon issued , to forbid it upon pain of death . 
But the noise and astonishment of the people , at seeing me rise and walk , are not to be expressed . 
The emperor of Lilliput , attended by several of the nobility , comes to see the author in his confinement . 
The emperor's person and habit described . 
Learned men appointed to teach the author their language . 
He gains favour by his mild disposition . 
His pockets are searched , and his sword and pistols taken from him . 
When I found myself on my feet , I looked about me , and must confess I never beheld a more entertaining prospect . 
The country around appeared like a continued garden , and the enclosed fields , which were generally forty feet square , resembled so many beds of flowers . 
and the tallest trees , as I could judge , appeared to be seven feet high . 
I viewed the town on my left hand , which looked like the painted scene of a city in a theatre . 
I had been for some hours extremely pressed by the necessities of nature which was no wonder , it being almost two days since I had last disburdened myself . 
I was under great difficulties between urgency and shame . 
When this adventure was at an end , I came back out of my house , having occasion for fresh air . 
When he alighted , he surveyed me round with great admiration but kept beyond the length of my chain . 
He is taller by almost the breadth of my nail , than any of his court which alone is enough to strike an awe into the beholders . 
He was then past his prime , being twenty eight years and three quarters old , of which he had reigned about seven in great felicity , and generally victorious . 
His voice was shrill , but very clear and articulate and I could distinctly hear it when I stood up . 
The ladies and courtiers were all most magnificently clad so that the spot they stood upon seemed to resemble a petticoat spread upon the ground , embroidered with figures of gold and silver . 
His imperial majesty spoke often to me , and I returned answers but neither of us could understand a syllable . 
By the same computation , they provided me with sheets , blankets , and coverlets , tolerable enough for one who had been so long inured to hardships . 
They apprehended my breaking loose that my diet would be very expensive , and might cause a famine . 
However , that I should be used with all kindness . 
And he advised me to acquire , by my patience and discreet behaviour , the good opinion of himself and his subjects . 
I said , His majesty should be satisfied for I was ready to strip myself , and turn up my pockets before him . 
This I delivered part in words , and part in signs . 
In one of my fobs there was a silver watch , and in the other a small quantity of gold in a purse . 
after the strictest search , we found only one great piece of coarse cloth , large enough to be a foot cloth for your majesty's chief room of state . 
In the left pocket we saw a huge silver chest , with a cover of the same metal , which we , the searchers , were not able to lift . 
In the left pocket , another engine of the same kind . 
In the left pocket were two black pillars irregularly shaped we could not , without difficulty , reach the top of them , as we stood at the bottom of his pocket . 
Within each of these was enclosed a prodigious plate of steel which , by our orders , we obliged him to show us , because we apprehended they might be dangerous engines . 
Out of the right fob hung a great silver chain , with a wonderful kind of engine at the bottom . 
that he seldom did any thing without consulting it . 
He called it his oracle , and said , it pointed out the time for every action of his life . 
This is an exact inventory of what we found about the body of the man mountain , who used us with great civility , and due respect to your majesty's commission . 
Signed and sealed on the fourth day of the eighty ninth moon of your majesty's auspicious reign . 
CLEFRIN FRELOCK , MARSI FRELOCK . 
When this inventory was read over to the emperor , he directed me , although in very gentle terms , to deliver up the several particulars . 
He first called for my scimitar , which I took out , scabbard and all . 
to surround me at a distance , with their bows and arrows just ready to discharge but I did not observe it , for mine eyes were wholly fixed upon his majesty . 
He then desired me to draw my scimitar , which , although it had got some rust by the sea water , was , in most parts , exceeding bright . 
The next thing he demanded was one of the hollow iron pillars by which he meant my pocket pistols . 
I first cautioned the emperor not to be afraid , and then I let it off in the air . 
The astonishment here was much greater than at the sight of my scimitar . 
Hundreds fell down as if they had been struck dead and even the emperor , although he stood his ground , could not recover himself for some time . 
My scimitar , pistols , and pouch , were conveyed in carriages to his majesty's stores but the rest of my goods were returned me . 
The author diverts the emperor , and his nobility of both sexes , in a very uncommon manner . 
The diversions of the court of Lilliput described . 
The author has his liberty granted him upon certain conditions . 
I took all possible methods to cultivate this favourable disposition . 
The natives came , by degrees , to be less apprehensive of any danger from me . 
I had now made a good progress in understanding and speaking the language . 
The emperor had a mind one day to entertain me with several of the country shows , wherein they exceed all nations I have known , both for dexterity and magnificence . 
I was diverted with none so much as that of the rope dancers , performed upon a slender white thread , extended about two feet , and twelve inches from the ground . 
Upon which I shall desire liberty , with the reader's patience , to enlarge a little . 
This diversion is only practised by those persons who are candidates for great employments , and high favour at court . 
They are trained in this art from their youth , and are not always of noble birth , or liberal education . 
Very often the chief ministers themselves are commanded to show their skill , and to convince the emperor that they have not lost their faculty . 
Flimnap , the treasurer , is allowed to cut a caper on the straight rope , at least an inch higher than any other lord in the whole empire . 
I have seen him do the summerset several times together , upon a trencher fixed on a rope which is no thicker than a common pack thread in England . 
These diversions are often attended with fatal accidents , whereof great numbers are on record . 
I myself have seen two or three candidates break a limb . 
There is likewise another diversion , which is only shown before the emperor and empress , and first minister , upon particular occasions . 
The emperor lays on the table three fine silken threads of six inches long one is blue , the other red , and the third green . 
These threads are proposed as prizes for those persons whom the emperor has a mind to distinguish by a peculiar mark of his favour . 
Sometimes the emperor holds one end of the stick , and his first minister the other sometimes the minister has it entirely to himself . 
I had the good fortune to divert the emperor one day after a very extraordinary manner . 
When I had finished my work , I desired the emperor to let a troop of his best horses twenty four in number , come and exercise upon this plain . 
His majesty approved of the proposal , and I took them up , one by one , in my hands , ready mounted and armed , with the proper officers to exercise them . 
I presently knew what they meant , and was glad at heart to receive this intelligence . 
He desired I would stand like a Colossus , with my legs as far asunder as I conveniently could . 
This body consisted of three thousand foot , and a thousand horse . 
But it was carried against him by the whole board , and confirmed by the emperor . 
That minister was GALBET , or admiral of the realm , very much in his master's confidence , and a person well versed in affairs , but of a morose and sour complexion . 
These articles were brought to me by Skyresh Bolgolam in person attended by two under secretaries , and several persons of distinction . 
d , He shall not presume to come into our metropolis , without our express order at which time , the inhabitants shall have two hours warning to keep within doors . 
d , The said man mountain shall confine his walks to our principal high roads , and not offer to walk , or lie down , in a meadow or field of corn . 
safe to our imperial presence . 
th , He shall be our ally against our enemies in the island of Blefuscu , and do his utmost to destroy their fleet , which is now preparing to invade us . 
Given at our palace at Belfaborac , the twelfth day of the ninety first moon of our reign . 
The emperor himself , in person , did me the honour to be by at the whole ceremony . 
By which the reader may conceive an idea of the ingenuity of that people , as well as the prudent and exact economy of so great a prince . 
Mildendo , the metropolis of Lilliput , described , together with the emperor's palace . 
A conversation between the author and a principal secretary , concerning the affairs of that empire . 
The author's offers to serve the emperor in his wars . 
The people had notice , by proclamation , of my design to visit the town . 
The garret windows and tops of houses were so crowded with spectators , that I thought in all my travels I had not seen a more populous place . 
The city is an exact square , each side of the wall being five hundred feet long . 
The two great streets , which run across and divide it into four quarters , are five feet wide . 
The lanes and alleys , which I could not enter , but only view them as I passed , are from twelve to eighteen inches . 
The town is capable of holding five hundred thousand souls the houses are from three to five stories the shops and markets well provided . 
The emperor's palace is in the centre of the city where the two great streets meet . 
It is enclosed by a wall of two feet high , and twenty feet distance from the buildings . 
I had his majesty's permission to step over this wall and , the space being so wide between that and the palace , I could easily view it on every side . 
Of these trees I made two stools , each about three feet high , and strong enough to bear my weight . 
The people having received notice a second time , I went again through the city to the palace with my two stools in my hands . 
I then stept over the building very conveniently from one stool to the other , and drew up the first after me with a hooked stick . 
There I saw the empress and the young princes , in their several lodgings , with their chief attendants about them . 
Her imperial majesty was pleased to smile very graciously upon me , and gave me out of the window her hand to kiss . 
for private affairs , came to my house attended only by one servant . 
I offered to lie down that he might the more conveniently reach my ear , but he chose rather to let me hold him in my hand during our conversation . 
The animosities between these two parties run so high , that they will neither eat , nor drink , nor talk with each other . 
We compute the TRAMECKSAN , or high heels , to exceed us in number but the power is wholly on our side . 
Which two mighty powers have , as I was going to tell you , been engaged in a most obstinate war for six and thirty moons past . 
It began upon the following occasion . 
Whereupon the emperor his father published an edict , commanding all his subjects , upon great penalties , to break the smaller end of their eggs . 
These civil commotions were constantly fomented by the monarchs of Blefuscu and when they were quelled , the exiles always fled for refuge to that empire . 
It is computed that eleven thousand persons have at several times suffered death , rather than submit to break their eggs at the smaller end . 
Many hundred large volumes have been published upon this controversy but the books of the Big endians have been long forbidden , and the whole party rendered incapable by law of holding employments . 
This , however , is thought to be a mere strain upon the text for the words are these 'that all true believers break their eggs at the convenient end . 
And which is the convenient end , seems , in my humble opinion to be left to every man's conscience , or at least in the power of the chief magistrate to determine . 
CHAPTER V. The author , by an extraordinary stratagem , prevents an invasion . 
A high title of honour is conferred upon him . 
Ambassadors arrive from the emperor of Blefuscu , and sue for peace . 
The empress's apartment on fire by an accident the author instrumental in saving the rest of the palace . 
The empire of Blefuscu is an island situated to the north east of Lilliput , from which it is parted only by a channel of eight hundred yards wide . 
for a great quantity of the strongest cable and bars of iron . 
The cable was about as thick as packthread and the bars of the length and size of a knitting needle . 
I trebled the cable to make it stronger , and for the same reason I twisted three of the iron bars together , bending the extremities into a hook . 
I waded with what haste I could , and swam in the middle about thirty yards , till I felt ground . 
I arrived at the fleet in less than half an hour . 
The enemy was so frightened when they saw me , that they leaped out of their ships , and swam to shore , where there could not be fewer than thirty thousand souls . 
I then took my tackling , and , fastening a hook to the hole at the prow of each , I tied all the cords together at the end . 
My greatest apprehension was for mine eyes , which I should have infallibly lost , if I had not suddenly thought of an expedient . 
I kept , among other little necessaries , a pair of spectacles in a private pocket , which , as I observed before , had escaped the emperor's searchers . 
The Blefuscudians , who had not the least imagination of what I intended , were at first confounded with astonishment . 
The emperor and his whole court stood on the shore , expecting the issue of this great adventure . 
They saw the ships move forward in a large half moon , but could not discern me , who was up to my breast in water . 
When I advanced to the middle of the channel , they were yet more in pain , because I was under water to my neck . 
His majesty desired I would take some other opportunity of bringing all the rest of his enemy's ships into his ports . 
And , when the matter was debated in council , the wisest part of the ministry were of my opinion . 
This open bold declaration of mine was so opposite to the schemes and politics of his imperial majesty , that he could never forgive me . 
Of so little weight are the greatest services to princes , when put into the balance with a refusal to gratify their passions . 
And this was the first time I began to conceive some imperfect idea of courts and ministers . 
, never once mentioned them to me . 
However , it was not long before I had an opportunity of doing his majesty , at least as I then thought , a most signal service . 
I was alarmed at midnight with the cries of many hundred people at my door by which , being suddenly awaked , I was in some kind of terror . 
I found they had already applied ladders to the walls of the apartment , and were well provided with buckets , but the water was at some distance . 
I might easily have stifled it with my coat , which I unfortunately left behind me for haste , and came away only in my leathern jerkin . 
By the luckiest chance in the world , I had not discharged myself of any part of it . 
Of the inhabitants of Lilliput their learning , laws , and customs the manner of educating their children . 
The author's way of living in that country . 
His vindication of a great lady . 
Their tallest trees are about seven feet high I mean some of those in the great royal park , the tops whereof I could but just reach with my fist clenched . 
The other vegetables are in the same proportion but this I leave to the reader's imagination . 
will turn upside down , and by this means they shall , at their resurrection , be found ready standing on their feet . 
The learned among them confess the absurdity of this doctrine but the practice still continues , in compliance to the vulgar . 
It is only to be wished they were as well executed . 
The first I shall mention , relates to informers . 
The emperor also confers on him some public mark of his favour , and proclamation is made of his innocence through the whole city . 
And these people thought it a prodigious defect of policy among us , when I told them that our laws were enforced only by penalties , without any mention of reward . 
Their notions relating to the duties of parents and children differ extremely from ours . 
These schools are of several kinds , suited to different qualities , and both sexes . 
They have certain professors well skilled in preparing children for such a condition of life as befits the rank of their parents , and their own capacities , as well as inclinations . 
I shall first say something of the male nurseries , and then of the female . 
The nurseries for males of noble or eminent birth , are provided with grave and learned professors , and their several deputies . 
The clothes and food of the children are plain and simple . 
The pension from each family for the education and entertainment of a child , upon failure of due payment , is levied by the emperor's officers . 
Their linen is usually three inches wide , and three feet make a piece . 
Three hundred tailors were employed in the same manner to make me clothes but they had another contrivance for taking my measure . 
, they looked like the patch work made by the ladies in England , only that mine were all of a colour . 
I had three hundred cooks to dress my victuals , in little convenient huts built about my house , where they and their families lived , and prepared me two dishes a piece . 
A dish of their meat was a good mouthful , and a barrel of their liquor a reasonable draught . 
Their mutton yields to ours , but their beef is excellent . 
I have had a sirloin so large , that I have been forced to make three bites of it but this is rare . 
My servants were astonished to see me eat it , bones and all , as in our country we do the leg of a lark . 
Their geese and turkeys I usually ate at a mouthful , and I confess they far exceed ours . 
Of their smaller fowl I could take up twenty or thirty at the end of my knife . 
They came accordingly , and I placed them in chairs of state , upon my table , just over against me , with their guards about them . 
I have some private reasons to believe , that this visit from his majesty gave Flimnap an opportunity of doing me ill offices to his master . 
That minister had always been my secret enemy , though he outwardly caressed me more than was usual to the moroseness of his nature . 
He represented to the emperor the low condition of his treasury that he was forced to take up money at a great discount that exchequer bills would not circulate under nine per cent . 
and , upon the whole , that it would be advisable in the emperor to take the first fair occasion of dismissing me . 
I am here obliged to vindicate the reputation of an excellent lady , who was an innocent sufferer upon my account . 
This I solemnly declare to be a most infamous falsehood , without any grounds , further than that her grace was pleased to treat me with all innocent marks of freedom and friendship . 
And I still appeal to my servants round , whether they at any time saw a coach at my door , without knowing what persons were in it . 
and place them on a table , where I had fixed a movable rim quite round , of five inches high , to prevent accidents . 
I have passed many an afternoon very agreeably in these conversations . 
The author , being informed of a design to accuse him of high treason , makes his escape to Blefuscu . 
I had been hitherto , all my life , a stranger to courts , for which I was unqualified by the meanness of my condition . 
came to my house very privately at night , in a close chair , and , without sending his name , desired admittance . 
has been your mortal enemy , almost ever since your arrival . 
His original reasons I know not but his hatred is increased since your great success against Blefuscu , by which his glory as admiral is much obscured . 
against the duty , etc . 
There are some other articles but these are the most important , of which I have read you an abstract . 
This proposal was received with the utmost disapprobation by the whole board . 
Thus , by the great friendship of the secretary , the whole affair was compromised . 
I leave to your prudence what measures you will take and to avoid suspicion , I must immediately return in as private a manner as I came . 
His lordship did so and I remained alone , under many doubts and perplexities of mind . 
I sometimes thought of standing my trial , for , although I could not deny the facts alleged in the several articles , yet I hoped they would admit of some extenuation . 
Neither had I so soon learned the gratitude of courtiers , to persuade myself , that his majesty's present seventies acquitted me of all past obligations . 
I had an answer in about an hour , that his majesty , attended by the royal family , and great officers of the court , was coming out to receive me . 
I advanced a hundred yards . 
The emperor and his train alighted from their horses , the empress and ladies from their coaches , and I did not perceive they were in any fright or concern . 
I lay on the ground to kiss his majesty's and the empress's hands . 
The author , by a lucky accident , finds means to leave Blefuscu and , after some difficulties , returns safe to his native country . 
This fleet sailed round , while I went back the shortest way to the coast , where I first discovered the boat . 
I found the tide had driven it still nearer . 
The seamen were all provided with cordage , which I had beforehand twisted to a sufficient strength . 
I did very much wonder , in all this time , not to have heard of any express relating to me from our emperor to the court of Blefuscu . 
The emperor of Blefuscu , having taken three days to consult , returned an answer consisting of many civilities and excuses . 
These considerations moved me to hasten my departure somewhat sooner than I intended to which the court , impatient to have me gone , very readily contributed . 
Five hundred workmen were employed to make two sails to my boat , according to my directions , by quilting thirteen folds of their strongest linen together . 
I was at the pains of making ropes and cables , by twisting ten , twenty , or thirty of the thickest and strongest of theirs . 
A great stone that I happened to find , after a long search , by the sea shore , served me for an anchor . 
I had the tallow of three hundred cows , for greasing my boat , and other uses . 
In about a month , when all was prepared , I sent to receive his majesty's commands , and to take my leave . 
The ceremonies at my departure were too many to trouble the reader with at this time . 
I took with me six cows and two bulls alive , with as many ewes and rams , intending to carry them into my own country , and propagate the breed . 
And to feed them on board , I had a good bundle of hay , and a bag of corn . 
I advanced forward , and cast anchor on the lee side of the island , which seemed to be uninhabited . 
I then took some refreshment , and went to my rest . 
I slept well , and as I conjectured at least six hours , for I found the day broke in two hours after I awaked . 
It was a clear night . 
My intention was to reach , if possible , one of those islands . 
which I had reason to believe lay to the north east of Van Diemen's Land . 
I hailed her , but could get no answer yet I found I gained upon her , for the wind slackened . 
I made all the sail I could , and in half an hour she spied me , then hung out her ancient , and discharged a gun . 
It is not easy to express the joy I was in , upon the unexpected hope of once more seeing my beloved country , and the dear pledges I left in it . 
The ship slackened her sails , and I came up with her between five and six in the evening , September th but my heart leaped within me to see her English colours . 
I put my cows and sheep into my coat pockets , and got on board with all my little cargo of provisions . 
I then showed him the gold given me by the emperor of Blefuscu , together with his majesty's picture at full length , and some other rarities of that country . 
I shall not trouble the reader with a particular account of this voyage , which was very prosperous for the most part . 
We arrived in the Downs on the th of April , . 
I had only one misfortune , that the rats on board carried away one of my sheep I found her bones in a hole , picked clean from the flesh . 
I stayed but two months with my wife and family , for my insatiable desire of seeing foreign countries , would suffer me to continue no longer . 
I left fifteen hundred pounds with my wife , and fixed her in a good house at Redriff . 
My remaining stock I carried with me , part in money and part in goods , in hopes to improve my fortunes . 
My son Johnny , named so after his uncle , was at the grammar school , and a towardly child . 
was then at her needle work . 
But my account of this voyage must be referred to the Second Part of my Travels . 
CHAPTER I. A great storm described the long boat sent to fetch water the author goes with it to discover the country . 
He is left on shore , is seized by one of the natives , and carried to a farmer's house . 
His reception , with several accidents that happened there . 
A description of the inhabitants . 
The ship lay very broad off , so we thought it better spooning before the sea , than trying or hulling . 
We reefed the fore sail and set him , and hauled aft the fore sheet the helm was hard a weather . 
It was a very fierce storm the sea broke strange and dangerous . 
We hauled off upon the laniard of the whip staff , and helped the man at the helm . 
When the storm was over , we set fore sail and main sail , and brought the ship to . 
Then we set the mizen , main top sail , and the fore top sail . 
Our course was east north east , the wind was at south west . 
Our provisions held out well , our ship was staunch , and our crew all in good health but we lay in the utmost distress for water . 
On the th day of June , , a boy on the top mast discovered land . 
on the south side whereof was a small neck of land jutting out into the sea , and a creek too shallow to hold a ship of above one hundred tons . 
I desired his leave to go with them , that I might see the country , and make what discoveries I could . 
When we came to land we saw no river or spring , nor any sign of inhabitants . 
I fell into a high road , for so I took it to be , though it served to the inhabitants only as a foot path through a field of barley . 
Here I walked on for some time , but could see little on either side , it being now near harvest , and the corn rising at least forty feet . 
There was a stile to pass from this field into the next . 
It had four steps , and a stone to cross over when you came to the uppermost . 
It was impossible for me to climb this stile , because every step was six feet high , and the upper stone about twenty . 
He appeared as tall as an ordinary spire steeple , and took about ten yards at every stride , as near as I could guess . 
Whereupon seven monsters , like himself , came towards him with reaping hooks in their hands , each hook about the largeness of six scythes . 
However , I made a shift to go forward , till I came to a part of the field where the corn had been laid by the rain and wind . 
At the same time I heard the reapers not a hundred yards behind me . 
Being quite dispirited with toil , and wholly overcome by grief and dispair , I lay down between two ridges , and heartily wished I might there end my days . 
I bemoaned my desolate widow and fatherless children . 
I lamented my own folly and wilfulness , in attempting a second voyage , against the advice of all my friends and relations . 
I reflected what a mortification it must prove to me , to appear as inconsiderable in this nation , as one single Lilliputian would be among us . 
It might have pleased fortune , to have let the Lilliputians find some nation , where the people were as diminutive with respect to them , as they were to me . 
And who knows but that even this prodigious race of mortals might be equally overmatched in some distant part of the world , whereof we have yet no discovery . 
He blew my hairs aside to take a better view of my face . 
He called his hinds about him , and asked them , as I afterwards learned , whether they had ever seen in the fields any little creature that resembled me . 
They all sat down in a circle about me , the better to observe my motions . 
I pulled off my hat , and made a low bow towards the farmer . 
but could make nothing of it . 
Whereupon I made a sign that he should place his hand on the ground . 
I then took the purse , and , opening it , poured all the gold into his palm . 
There were six Spanish pieces of four pistoles each , beside twenty or thirty smaller coins . 
The farmer , by this time , was convinced I must be a rational creature . 
He spoke often to me but the sound of his voice pierced my ears like that of a water mill , yet his words were articulate enough . 
There he called his wife , and showed me to her but she screamed and ran back , as women in England do at the sight of a toad or a spider . 
It was about twelve at noon , and a servant brought in dinner . 
in a dish of about four and twenty feet diameter . 
The company were , the farmer and his wife , three children , and an old grandmother . 
When they were sat down , the farmer placed me at some distance from him on the table , which was thirty feet high from the floor . 
I was in a terrible fright , and kept as far as I could from the edge , for fear of falling . 
The wife minced a bit of meat , then crumbled some bread on a trencher , and placed it before me . 
I made her a low bow , took out my knife and fork , and fell to eat , which gave them exceeding delight . 
This liquor tasted like a small cider , and was not unpleasant . 
and waving it over my head , made three huzzas , to show I had got no mischief by my fall . 
In the midst of dinner , my mistress's favourite cat leaped into her lap . 
But it happened there was no danger , for the cat took not the least notice of me when my master placed me within three yards of her . 
It stood prominent six feet , and could not be less than sixteen in circumference . 
My mistress was gone about her household affairs , and had locked me in . 
The bed was eight yards from the floor . 
While I was under these circumstances , two rats crept up the curtains , and ran smelling back wards and forwards on the bed . 
One of them came up almost to my face , whereupon I rose in a fright , and drew out my hanger to defend myself . 
After this exploit , I walked gently to and fro on the bed , to recover my breath and loss of spirits . 
Soon after my mistress came into the room , who seeing me all bloody , ran and took me up in her hand . 
Then she set me on a table , where I showed her my hanger all bloody , and wiping it on the lappet of my coat , returned it to the scabbard . 
Of less moment which were in my first copy , for fear of being censured as tedious and trifling , whereof travellers are often , perhaps not without justice , accused . 
A description of the farmer's daughter . 
The author carried to a market town , and then to the metropolis . 
The particulars of his journey . 
My mistress had a daughter of nine years old , a child of towardly parts for her age , very dexterous at her needle , and skilful in dressing her baby . 
This was my bed all the time I staid with those people , though made more convenient by degrees , as I began to learn their language and make my wants known . 
She was very good natured , and not above forty feet high , being little for her age . 
She gave me the name of GRILDRIG , which the family took up , and afterwards the whole kingdom . 
The word imports what the Latins call NANUNCULUS , the Italians HOMUNCELETINO , and the English MANNIKIN . 
Another farmer , who lived hard by , and was a particular friend of my master , came on a visit on purpose to inquire into the truth of this story . 
Our people , who discovered the cause of my mirth , bore me company in laughing , at which the old fellow was fool enough to be angry and out of countenance . 
But the next morning Glumdalclitch , my little nurse , told me the whole matter , which she had cunningly picked out from her mother . 
The poor girl laid me on her bosom , and fell a weeping with shame and grief . 
She apprehended some mischief would happen to me from rude vulgar folks , who might squeeze me to death , or break one of my limbs by taking me in their hands . 
For my own part , I may truly affirm , that I was less concerned than my nurse . 
The box was close on every side , with a little door for me to go in and out , and a few gimlet holes to let in air . 
The girl had been so careful as to put the quilt of her baby's bed into it , for me to lie down on . 
Our journey was somewhat farther than from London to St . 
and in every part of the body resembling a human creature , could speak several words , and perform a hundred diverting tricks . 
I was placed upon a table in the largest room of the inn , which might be near three hundred feet square . 
My little nurse stood on a low stool close to the table , to take care of me , and direct what I should do . 
My master , to avoid a crowd , would suffer only thirty people at a time to see me . 
I turned about several times to the company , paid my humble respects , said THEY WERE WELCOME , and used some other speeches I had been taught . 
My nurse gave me a part of a straw , which I exercised as a pike , having learnt the art in my youth . 
although I were not carried to the town . 
My master , finding how profitable I was likely to be , resolved to carry me to the most considerable cities of the kingdom . 
My master made his daughter Glumdalclitch ride behind him . 
She carried me on her lap , in a box tied about her waist . 
We had no other company but a boy of the house , who rode after us with the luggage . 
We passed over five or six rivers , many degrees broader and deeper than the Nile or the Ganges and there was hardly a rivulet so small as the Thames at London bridge . 
We were ten weeks in our journey , and I was shown in eighteen large towns , besides many villages , and private families . 
On the th day of October we arrived at the metropolis , called in their language LORBRULGRUD , or Pride of the Universe . 
He hired a large room between three and four hundred feet wide . 
I was shown ten times a day , to the wonder and satisfaction of all people . 
I could now speak the language tolerably well , and perfectly understood every word , that was spoken to me . 
The author sent for to court . 
The queen buys him of his master the farmer , and presents him to the king . 
He disputes with his majesty's great scholars . 
An apartment at court provided for the author . 
He is in high favour with the queen . 
He stands up for the honour of his own country . 
His quarrels with the queen's dwarf . 
I had quite lost my stomach , and was almost reduced to a skeleton . 
The farmer observed it , and concluding I must soon die , resolved to make as good a hand of me as he could . 
Some of the latter had already been to see me , and reported strange things of my beauty , behaviour , and good sense . 
Her majesty , and those who attended her , were beyond measure delighted with my demeanour . 
She made me some general questions about my country and my travels , which I answered as distinctly , and in as few words as I could . 
My late master withdrew , bidding me farewell , and saying he had left me in a good service to which I replied not a word , only making him a slight bow . 
The queen observed my coldness and , when the farmer was gone out of the apartment , asked me the reason . 
That the life I had since led was laborious enough to kill an animal of ten times my strength . 
This was the sum of my speech , delivered with great improprieties and hesitation . 
The latter part was altogether framed in the style peculiar to that people , whereof I learned some phrases from Glumdalclitch , while she was carrying me to court . 
The queen , giving great allowance for my defectiveness in speaking , was , however , surprised at so much wit and good sense in so diminutive an animal . 
She took me in her own hand , and carried me to the king , who was then retired to his cabinet . 
contrived by some ingenious artist . 
But when he heard my voice , and found what I delivered to be regular and rational , he could not conceal his astonishment . 
His majesty sent for three great scholars , who were then in their weekly waiting , according to the custom in that country . 
These gentlemen , after they had a while examined my shape with much nicety , were of different opinions concerning me . 
One of these virtuosi seemed to think that I might be an embryo , or abortive birth . 
After this decisive conclusion , I entreated to be heard a word or two . 
To this they only replied with a smile of contempt , saying , that the farmer had instructed me very well in my lesson . 
The king , who had a much better understanding , dismissing his learned men , sent for the farmer , who by good fortune was not yet gone out of town . 
Having therefore first examined him privately , and then confronted him with me and the young girl , his majesty began to think that what we told him might possibly be true . 
The queen commanded her own cabinet maker to contrive a box , that might serve me for a bedchamber , after the model that Glumdalclitch and I should agree upon . 
I desired a lock for my door , to prevent rats and mice from coming in . 
The smith , after several attempts , made the smallest that ever was seen among them , for I have known a larger at the gate of a gentleman's house in England . 
I made a shift to keep the key in a pocket of my own , fearing Glumdalclitch might lose it . 
The queen likewise ordered the thinnest silks that could be gotten , to make me clothes , not much thicker than an English blanket , very cumbersome till I was accustomed to them . 
They were after the fashion of the kingdom , partly resembling the Persian , and partly the Chinese , and are a very grave and decent habit . 
The queen became so fond of my company , that she could not dine without me . 
I had a table placed upon the same at which her majesty ate , just at her left elbow , and a chair to sit on . 
Glumdalclitch stood on a stool on the floor near my table , to assist and take care of me . 
No person dined with the queen but the two princesses royal , the eldest sixteen years old , and the younger at that time thirteen and a month . 
took up , at one mouthful , as much as a dozen English farmers could eat at a meal , which to me was for some time a very nauseous sight . 
She drank out of a golden cup , above a hogshead at a draught . 
Her knives were twice as long as a scythe , set straight upon the handle . 
The spoons , forks , and other instruments , were all in the same proportion . 
His apprehension was so clear , and his judgment so exact , that he made very wise reflections and observations upon all I said . 
But as I was not in a condition to resent injuries , so upon mature thoughts I began to doubt whether I was injured or no . 
But my little nurse ran to my relief , and took me out , after I had swallowed above a quart of cream . 
I was put to bed however , I received no other damage than the loss of a suit of clothes , which was utterly spoiled . 
I believe it was near a minute before any one knew what was become of me for I thought it below me to cry out . 
But , as princes seldom get their meat hot , my legs were not scalded , only my stockings and breeches in a sad condition . 
The dwarf , at my entreaty , had no other punishment than a sound whipping . 
I had much ado to defend myself against these detestable animals , and could not forbear starting when they came on my face . 
My remedy was to cut them in pieces with my knife , as they flew in the air , wherein my dexterity was much admired . 
However , I had the courage to rise and draw my hanger , and attack them in the air . 
I dispatched four of them , but the rest got away , and I presently shut my window . 
These insects were as large as partridges I took out their stings , found them an inch and a half long , and as sharp as needles . 
A proposal for correcting modern maps . 
The king's palace and some account of the metropolis . 
The author's way of travelling . 
For the queen , whom I always attended , never went farther when she accompanied the king in his progresses , and there staid till his majesty returned from viewing his frontiers . 
On the three other sides , it is bounded by the ocean . 
However , now and then they take a whale that happens to be dashed against the rocks , which the common people feed on heartily . 
The country is well inhabited , for it contains fifty one cities , near a hundred walled towns , and a great number of villages . 
To satisfy my curious reader , it may be sufficient to describe Lorbrulgrud . 
This city stands upon almost two equal parts , on each side the river that passes through . 
It contains above eighty thousand houses , and about six hundred thousand inhabitants . 
I reckoned our coach to be about a square of Westminster hall , but not altogether so high however , I cannot be very exact . 
There was a fellow with a wen in his neck , larger than five wool packs and another , with a couple of wooden legs , each about twenty feet high . 
But the most hateful sight of all , was the lice crawling on their clothes . 
And having been long used to sea voyages , those motions , although sometimes very violent , did not much discompose me . 
I was very desirous to see the chief temple , and particularly the tower belonging to it , which is reckoned the highest in the kingdom . 
I measured a little finger which had fallen down from one of these statues , and lay unperceived among some rubbish , and found it exactly four feet and an inch in length . 
The king's kitchen is indeed a noble building , vaulted at top , and about six hundred feet high . 
The great oven is not so wide , by ten paces , as the cupola at St . 
Paul's for I measured the latter on purpose , after my return . 
and transmitted thither , the king and his people would have reason to complain that I had done them an injury , by a false and diminutive representation . 
His majesty seldom keeps above six hundred horses in his stables they are generally from fifty four to sixty feet high . 
CHAPTER V. Several adventurers that happened to the author . 
The execution of a criminal . 
The author shows his skill in navigation . 
I should have lived happy enough in that country , if my littleness had not exposed me to several ridiculous and troublesome accidents some of which I shall venture to relate . 
Another day , Glumdalclitch left me on a smooth grass plot to divert myself , while she walked at some distance with her governess . 
and having left my box at home , to avoid the trouble of carrying it , went to another part of the garden with her governess and some ladies of her acquaintance . 
By good fortune he had been so well taught , that I was carried between his teeth without the least hurt , or even tearing my clothes . 
She severely reprimanded the gardener on account of his dog . 
This accident absolutely determined Glumdalclitch never to trust me abroad for the future out of her sight . 
I had been long afraid of this resolution , and therefore concealed from her some little unlucky adventures , that happened in those times when I was left by myself . 
I likewise broke my right shin against the shell of a snail , which I happened to stumble over , as I was walking alone and thinking on poor England . 
I remember , a thrush had the confidence to snatch out of my hand , with his bill , a of cake that Glumdalclitch had just given me for my breakfast . 
But I was soon relieved by one of our servants , who wrung off the bird's neck , and I had him next day for dinner , by the queen's command . 
This linnet , as near as I can remember , seemed to be somewhat larger than an English swan . 
The maids of honour often invited Glumdalclitch to their apartments , and desired she would bring me along with her , on purpose to have the pleasure of seeing and touching me . 
And , after all , I found their natural smell was much more supportable , than when they used perfumes , under which I immediately swooned away . 
Upon this point , I cannot forbear doing justice to the queen my mistress , and Glumdalclitch my nurse , whose persons were as sweet as those of any lady in England . 
But I was so much displeased , that I entreated Glumdalclitch to contrive some excuse for not seeing that young lady any more . 
One day , a young gentleman , who was nephew to my nurse's governess , came and pressed them both to see an execution . 
It was of a man , who had murdered one of that gentleman's intimate acquaintance . 
The malefactor was fixed in a chair upon a scaffold erected for that purpose , and his head cut off at one blow , with a sword of about forty feet long . 
Her majesty said , if I would contrive a boat , her own joiner should make it , and she would provide a place for me to sail in . 
The fellow was an ingenious workman , and by my instructions , in ten days , finished a pleasure boat with all its tackling , able conveniently to hold eight Europeans . 
But the queen had before contrived another project . 
It had a cock near the bottom to let out the water , when it began to grow stale and two servants could easily fill it in half an hour . 
Here I often used to row for my own diversion , as well as that of the queen and her ladies , who thought themselves well entertained with my skill and agility . 
When I had done , Glumdalclitch always carried back my boat into her closet , and hung it on a nail to dry . 
The largeness of its features made it appear the most deformed animal that can be conceived . 
However , I desired Glumdalclitch to let me deal with it alone . 
I banged it a good while with one of my sculls , and at last forced it to leap out of the boat . 
But the greatest danger I ever underwent in that kingdom , was from a monkey , who belonged to one of the clerks of the kitchen . 
Glumdalclitch had locked me up in her closet , while she went somewhere upon business , or a visit . 
, and dragged me out . 
I have good reason to believe , that he took me for a young one of his own species , by his often stroking my face very gently with his other paw . 
I heard Glumdalclitch give a shriek at the moment he was carrying me out . 
Some of the people threw up stones , hoping to drive the monkey down but this was strictly forbidden , or else , very probably , my brains had been dashed out . 
Yet I was so weak and bruised in the sides with the squeezes given me by this odious animal , that I was forced to keep my bed a fortnight . 
The king , queen , and all the court , sent every day to inquire after my health and her majesty made me several visits during my sickness . 
The monkey was killed , and an order made , that no such animal should be kept about the palace . 
When I attended the king after my recovery , to return him thanks for his favours , he was pleased to rally me a good deal upon this adventure . 
He desired to know , what I would have done upon such an occasion in my own country . 
This I delivered in a firm tone , like a person who was jealous lest his courage should be called in question . 
However , my speech produced nothing else beside a laud laughter , which all the respect due to his majesty from those about him could not make them contain . 
The girl , who had been out of order , was carried by her governess to take the air about an hour's distance , or thirty miles from town . 
They alighted out of the coach near a small foot path in a field , and Glumdalclitch setting down my travelling box , I went out of it to walk . 
There was a cow dung in the path , and I must need try my activity by attempting to leap over it . 
I took a run , but unfortunately jumped short , and found myself just in the middle up to my knees . 
Several contrivances of the author to please the king and queen . 
He shows his skill in music . 
The king inquires into the state of England , which the author relates to him . 
His majesty , according to the custom of the country , was only shaved twice a week . 
I once prevailed on the barber to give me some of the suds or lather , out of which I picked forty or fifty of the strongest stumps of hair . 
And this puts me in mind of an amusement , wherein I spent many of my leisure hours . 
I likewise made a neat little purse , about five feet long , with her majesty's name deciphered in gold letters , which I gave to Glumdalclitch , by the queen's consent . 
I am confident that all the drums and trumpets of a royal army , beating and sounding together just at your ears , could not equal it . 
I had learned in my youth to play a little upon the spinet . 
A fancy came into my head , that I would entertain the king and queen with an English tune upon this instrument . 
Before the spinet a bench was placed , about four feet below the keys , and I was put upon the bench . 
In this manner I had several conversations with him . 
The king heard me with attention , and began to conceive a much better opinion of me than he had ever before . 
, he should be glad to hear of any thing that might deserve imitation . 
I began my discourse by informing his majesty , that our dominions consisted of two islands , which composed three mighty kingdoms , under one sovereign , beside our plantations in America . 
I dwelt long upon the fertility of our soil , and the temperature of our climate . 
And that these two bodies made up the most august assembly in Europe to whom , in conjunction with the prince , the whole legislature is committed . 
I mentioned the prudent management of our treasury the valour and achievements of our forces , by sea and land . 
I computed the number of our people , by reckoning how many millions there might be of each religious sect , or political party among us . 
I did not omit even our sports and pastimes , or any other particular which I thought might redound to the honour of my country . 
And I finished all with a brief historical account of affairs and events in England for about a hundred years past . 
But , if what I told him were true , he was still at a loss how a kingdom could run out of its estate , like a private person . 
He said , he knew no reason why those , who entertain opinions prejudicial to the public , should be obliged to change , or should not be obliged to conceal them . 
The author's love of his country . 
He makes a proposal of much advantage to the king , which is rejected . 
The king's great ignorance in politics . 
The learning of that country very imperfect and confined . 
The laws , and military affairs , and parties in the state . 
Nothing but an extreme love of truth could have hindered me from concealing this part of my story . 
This was my sincere endeavour in those many discourses I had with that monarch , although it unfortunately failed of success . 
And it would be hard indeed , if so remote a prince's notions of virtue and vice were to be offered as a standard for all mankind . 
To confirm what I have now said , and further to show the miserable effects of a confined education , I shall here insert a passage , which will hardly obtain belief . 
This I humbly offered to his majesty , as a small tribute of acknowledgment , in turn for so many marks that I had received , of his royal favour and protection . 
The king was struck with horror at the description I had given of those terrible engines , and the proposal I had made . 
a very mean opinion of our understandings . 
He professed both to abominate and despise all mystery , refinement , and intrigue , either in a prince or a minister . 
He could not tell what I meant by secrets of state , where an enemy , or some rival nation , were not in the case . 
The learning of this people is very defective , consisting only in morality , history , poetry , and mathematics , wherein they must be allowed to excel . 
And as to ideas , entities , abstractions , and transcendentals , I could never drive the least conception into their heads . 
No law in that country must exceed in words the number of letters in their alphabet , which consists only of two and twenty . 
But indeed few of them extend even to that length . 
As to the decision of civil causes , or proceedings against criminals , their precedents are so few , that they have little reason to boast of any extraordinary skill in either . 
It was indeed a moveable pair of stairs , the lowest end placed at ten feet distance from the wall of the chamber . 
Their style is clear , masculine , and smooth , but not florid for they avoid nothing more than multiplying unnecessary words , or using various expressions . 
I have perused many of their books , especially those in history and morality . 
The book treats of the weakness of human kind , and is in little esteem , except among the women and the vulgar . 
However , I was curious to see what an author of that country could say upon such a subject . 
He added , that nature was degenerated in these latter declining ages of the world , and could now produce only small abortive births , in comparison of those in ancient times . 
From this way of reasoning , the author drew several moral applications , useful in the conduct of life , but needless here to repeat . 
And I believe , upon a strict inquiry , those quarrels might be shown as ill grounded among us as they are among that people . 
A cavalier , mounted on a large steed , might be about ninety feet high . 
I have seen this whole body of horse , upon a word of command , draw their swords at once , and brandish them in the air . 
The king and queen make a progress to the frontiers . 
The manner in which he leaves the country very particularly related . 
I could never forget those domestic pledges I had left behind me . 
But my deliverance came sooner than I expected , and in a manner not very common the whole story and circumstances of which I shall faithfully relate . 
I was carried , as usual , in my travelling box , which as I have already described , was a very convenient closet , of twelve feet wide . 
Glumdalclitch and I were much fatigued I had gotten a small cold , but the poor girl was so ill as to be confined to her chamber . 
I longed to see the ocean , which must be the only scene of my escape , if ever it should happen . 
The boy took me out in my box , about half an hours walk from the palace , towards the rocks on the seashore . 
I ordered him to set me down , and lifting up one of my sashes , cast many a wistful melancholy look towards the sea . 
I found myself not very well , and told the page that I had a mind to take a nap in my hammock , which I hoped would do me good . 
I got in , and the boy shut the window close down , to keep out the cold . 
Be that as it will , I found myself suddenly awaked with a violent pull upon the ring , which was fastened at the top of my box for the conveniency of carriage . 
I felt my box raised very high in the air , and then borne forward with prodigious speed . 
The first jolt had like to have shaken me out of my hammock , but afterward the motion was easy enough . 
I called out several times , as loud as I could raise my voice , but all to no purpose . 
I looked towards my windows , and could see nothing but the clouds and sky . 
, and then , all on a sudden , felt myself falling perpendicularly down , for above a minute , but with such incredible swiftness , that I almost lost my breath . 
I now perceived I was fallen into the sea . 
preserved the balance while it fell , and hindered it from being broken on the surface of the water . 
I saw the water ooze in at several crannies , although the leaks were not considerable , and I endeavoured to stop them as well as I could . 
This gave me some faint hopes of relief , although I was not able to imagine how it could be brought about . 
I apprehended it to be a rock , and found myself tossed more than ever . 
I plainly heard a noise upon the cover of my closet , like that of a cable , and the grating of it as it passed through the ring . 
I then found myself hoisted up , by degrees , at least three feet higher than I was before . 
Whereupon I again thrust up my stick and handkerchief , calling for help till I was almost hoarse . 
In return to which , I heard a great shout repeated three times , giving me such transports of joy as are not to be conceived but by those who feel them . 
The sailors were all in amazement , and asked me a thousand questions , which I had no inclination to answer . 
I slept some hours , but perpetually disturbed with dreams of the place I had left , and the dangers I had escaped . 
However , upon waking , I found myself much recovered . 
It was now about eight o'clock at night , and the captain ordered supper immediately , thinking I had already fasted too long . 
That he laughed at their folly , and went himself in the boat , ordering his men to take a strong cable along with them . 
That the weather being calm , he rowed round me several times , observed my windows and wire lattices that defended them . 
That he discovered two staples upon one side , which was all of boards , without any passage for light . 
He said , they saw my stick and handkerchief thrust out of the hole , and concluded that some unhappy man must be shut up in the cavity . 
I asked , whether he or the crew had seen any prodigious birds in the air , about the time he first discovered me . 
I assured him , that he must be mistaken by almost half , for I had not left the country whence I came above two hours before I dropped into the sea . 
Whereupon he began again to think that my brain was disturbed , of which he gave me a hint , and advised me to go to bed in a cabin he had provided . 
I assured him , I was well refreshed with his good entertainment and company , and as much in my senses as ever I was in my life . 
I begged his patience to hear me tell my story , which I faithfully did , from the last time I left England , to the moment he first discovered me . 
I opened it in his own presence , and showed him the small collection of rarities I made in the country from which I had been so strangely delivered . 
I desired the captain would please to accept this ring in return for his civilities which he absolutely refused . 
Lastly , I desired him to see the breeches I had then on , which were made of a mouse's skin . 
I could force nothing on him but a footman's tooth , which I observed him to examine with great curiosity , and found he had a fancy for it . 
He received it with abundance of thanks , more than such a trifle could deserve . 
I got it cleaned , and put it into my cabinet . 
It was about a foot long , and four inches in diameter . 
However , I thanked him for his good opinion , and promised to take the matter into my thoughts . 
The captain having been at Tonquin , was , in his return to England , driven north eastward to the latitude of degrees , and longitude of . 
Our voyage was very prosperous , but I shall not trouble the reader with a journal of it . 
I offered to leave my goods in security for payment of my freight but the captain protested he would not receive one farthing . 
We took a kind leave of each other , and I made him promise he would come to see me at my house in Redriff . 
I hired a horse and guide for five shillings , which I borrowed of the captain . 
As I was on the road , observing the littleness of the houses , the trees , the cattle , and the people , I began to think myself in Lilliput . 
for fear of striking my head . 
My wife run out to embrace me , but I stooped lower than her knees , thinking she could otherwise never be able to reach my mouth . 
I looked down upon the servants , and one or two friends who were in the house , as if they had been pigmies and I a giant . 
I told my wife , she had been too thrifty , for I found she had starved herself and her daughter to nothing . 
In short , I behaved myself so unaccountably , that they were all of the captain's opinion when he first saw me , and concluded I had lost my wits . 
This I mention as an instance of the great power of habit and prejudice . 
In the mean time , I here conclude the second part of my unfortunate voyages . 
A VOYAGE TO LAPUTA , BALNIBARBI , LUGGNAGG , GLUBBDUBDRIB , AND JAPAN . 
CHAPTER I. The author sets out on his third voyage . 
The malice of a Dutchman . 
His arrival at an island . 
He is received into Laputa . 
I had formerly been surgeon of another ship where he was master , and a fourth part owner , in a voyage to the Levant . 
The only difficulty that remained , was to persuade my wife , whose consent however I at last obtained , by the prospect of advantage she proposed to her children . 
We set out the th day of August , , and arrived at Fort St . 
George the th of April , . 
We staid there three weeks to refresh our crew , many of whom were sick . 
, they pinioned us with strong ropes , and setting guard upon us , went to search the sloop . 
I observed among them a Dutchman , who seemed to be of some authority , though he was not commander of either ship . 
He knew us by our countenances to be Englishmen , and jabbering to us in his own language , swore we should be tied back to back and thrown into the sea . 
This inflamed his rage he repeated his threatenings , and turning to his companions , spoke with great vehemence in the Japanese language , as I suppose , often using the word CHRISTIANOS . 
The largest of the two pirate ships was commanded by a Japanese captain , who spoke a little Dutch , but very imperfectly . 
He came up to me , and after several questions , which I answered in great humility , he said , we should not die . 
, however , prevailed so far , as to have a punishment inflicted on me , worse , in all human appearance , than death itself . 
My men were sent by an equal division into both the pirate ships , and my sloop new manned . 
I got down into the canoe , while the Dutchman , standing upon the deck , loaded me with all the curses and injurious terms his language could afford . 
About an hour before we saw the pirates I had taken an observation , and found we were in the latitude of N. and longitude of . 
When I was at some distance from the pirates , I discovered , by my pocket glass , several islands to the south east . 
It was all rocky however I got many birds' eggs and , striking fire , I kindled some heath and dry sea weed , by which I roasted my eggs . 
I ate no other supper , being resolved to spare my provisions as much as I could . 
I passed the night under the shelter of a rock , strewing some heath under me , and slept pretty well . 
The next day I sailed to another island , and thence to a third and fourth , sometimes using my sail , and sometimes my paddles . 
This island was at a greater distance than I expected , and I did not reach it in less than five hours . 
I encompassed it almost round , before I could find a convenient place to land in which was a small creek , about three times the wideness of my canoe . 
I found the island to be all rocky , only a little intermingled with tufts of grass , and sweet smelling herbs . 
I lay all night in the cave where I had lodged my provisions . 
My bed was the same dry grass and sea weed which I intended for fuel . 
I slept very little , for the disquiets of my mind prevailed over my weariness , and kept me awake . 
I stood upon a height about two hundred yards from the shore , and saw this vast body descending almost to a parallel with me , at less than an English mile distance . 
to raise or sink , or put it into progressive motion , as they pleased . 
In the lowest gallery , I beheld some people fishing with long angling rods , and others looking on . 
I found by their pointing towards me and to each other , that they plainly discovered me , although they made no return to my shouting . 
But I could see four or five men running in great haste , up the stairs , to the top of the island , who then disappeared . 
I happened rightly to conjecture , that these were sent for orders to some person in authority upon this occasion . 
I then put myself in the most supplicating posture , and spoke in the humblest accent , but received no answer . 
Those who stood nearest over against me , seemed to be persons of distinction , as I supposed by their habit . 
They conferred earnestly with each other , looking often upon me . 
Although neither of us understood the other , yet my meaning was easily known , for the people saw the distress I was in . 
The humours and dispositions of the Laputians described . 
An account of their learning . 
Of the king and his court . 
The inhabitants subject to fear and disquietudes . 
An account of the women . 
Ay my alighting , I was surrounded with a crowd of people , but those who stood nearest seemed to be of better quality . 
Their heads were all reclined , either to the right , or the left one of their eyes turned inward , and the other directly up to the zenith . 
In each bladder was a small quantity of dried peas , or little pebbles , as I was afterwards informed . 
With these bladders , they now and then flapped the mouths and ears of those who stood near them , of which practice I could not then conceive the meaning . 
in their family , as one of their domestics nor ever walk abroad , or make visits , without him . 
Before the throne , was a large table filled with globes and spheres , and mathematical instruments of all kinds . 
His majesty took not the least notice of us , although our entrance was not without sufficient noise , by the concourse of all persons belonging to the court . 
But he was then deep in a problem and we attended at least an hour , before he could solve it . 
The king , as far as I could conjecture , asked me several questions , and I addressed myself to him in all the languages I had . 
, where two servants were appointed to attend me . 
My dinner was brought , and four persons of quality , whom I remembered to have seen very near the king's person , did me the honour to dine with me . 
We had two courses , of three dishes each . 
In the first course , there was a shoulder of mutton cut into an equilateral triangle , a piece of beef into a rhomboides , and a pudding into a cycloid . 
The second course was two ducks trussed up in the form of fiddles sausages and puddings resembling flutes and hautboys , and a breast of veal in the shape of a harp . 
The servants cut our bread into cones , cylinders , parallelograms , and several other mathematical figures . 
I was soon able to call for bread and drink , or whatever else I wanted . 
After dinner my company withdrew , and a person was sent to me by the king's order , attended by a flapper . 
He brought with him pen , ink , and paper , and three or four books , giving me to understand by signs , that he was sent to teach me the language . 
Then I took down the sentence in writing . 
He gave me the names and descriptions of all the musical instruments , and the general terms of art in playing on each of them . 
After he had left me , I placed all my words , with their interpretations , in alphabetical order . 
And thus , in a few days , by the help of a very faithful memory , I got some insight into their language . 
The word , which I interpret the flying or floating island , is in the original LAPUTA , whereof I could never learn the true etymology . 
LAP , in the old obsolete language , signifies high and UNTUH , a governor from which they say , by corruption , was derived LAPUTA , from LAPUNTUH . 
But I do not approve of this derivation , which seems to be a little strained . 
Those to whom the king had entrusted me , observing how ill I was clad , ordered a tailor to come next morning , and take measure for a suit of clothes . 
This operator did his office after a different manner from those of his trade in Europe . 
But my comfort was , that I observed such accidents very frequent , and little regarded . 
It was about ninety leagues distant , and our voyage lasted four days and a half . 
I was not in the least sensible of the progressive motion made in the air by the island . 
And to this purpose , several packthreads were let down , with small weights at the bottom . 
On these packthreads the people strung their petitions , which mounted up directly , like the scraps of paper fastened by school boys at the end of the string that holds their kite . 
Sometimes we received wine and victuals from below , which were drawn up by pulleys . 
The knowledge I had in mathematics , gave me great assistance in acquiring their phraseology , which depended much upon that science , and music and in the latter I was not unskilled . 
Their ideas are perpetually conversant in lines and figures . 
I observed in the king's kitchen all sorts of mathematical and musical instruments , after the figures of which they cut up the joints that were served to his majesty's table . 
They are very bad reasoners , and vehemently given to opposition , unless when they happen to be of the right opinion , which is seldom their case . 
Most of them , and especially those who deal in the astronomical part , have great faith in judicial astrology , although they are ashamed to own it publicly . 
These people are under continual disquietudes , never enjoying a minutes peace of mind and their disturbances proceed from causes which very little affect the rest of mortals . 
This may perhaps pass with the reader rather for an European or English story , than for one of a country so remote . 
A phenomenon solved by modern philosophy and astronomy . 
The Laputians' great improvements in the latter . 
The king's method of suppressing insurrections . 
I desired leave of this prince to see the curiosities of the island , which he was graciously pleased to grant , and ordered my tutor to attend me . 
I chiefly wanted to know , to what cause , in art or in nature , it owed its several motions , whereof I will now give a philosophical account to the reader . 
The flying or floating island is exactly circular , its diameter yards , or about four miles and a half , and consequently contains ten thousand acres . 
It is three hundred yards thick . 
Above it lie the several minerals in their usual order , and over all is a coat of rich mould , ten or twelve feet deep . 
From these basins the water is continually exhaled by the sun in the daytime , which effectually prevents their overflowing . 
For the highest clouds cannot rise above two miles , as naturalists agree , at least they were never known to do so in that country . 
In this cave are twenty lamps continually burning , which , from the reflection of the adamant , cast a strong light into every part . 
The place is stored with great variety of sextants , quadrants , telescopes , astrolabes , and other astronomical instruments . 
But the greatest curiosity , upon which the fate of the island depends , is a loadstone of a prodigious size , in shape resembling a weaver's shuttle . 
It is in length six yards , and in the thickest part at least three yards over . 
This magnet is sustained by a very strong axle of adamant passing through its middle , upon which it plays , and is poised so exactly that the weakest hand can turn it . 
It is hooped round with a hollow cylinder of adamant , four feet yards in diameter , placed horizontally , and supported by eight adamantine feet , each six yards high . 
In the middle of the concave side , there is a groove twelve inches deep , in which the extremities of the axle are lodged , and turned round as there is occasion . 
By means of this loadstone , the island is made to rise and fall , and move from one place to another . 
Upon placing the magnet erect , with its attracting end towards the earth , the island descends but when the repelling extremity points downwards , the island mounts directly upwards . 
When the position of the stone is oblique , the motion of the island is so too for in this magnet , the forces always act in lines parallel to its direction . 
By this oblique motion , the island is conveyed to different parts of the monarch's dominions . 
is conveyed from one part of the dominions to the other . 
But it must be observed , that this island cannot move beyond the extent of the dominions below , nor can it rise above the height of four miles . 
This loadstone is under the care of certain astronomers , who , from time to time , give it such positions as the monarch directs . 
They spend the greatest part of their lives in observing the celestial bodies , which they do by the assistance of glasses , far excelling ours in goodness . 
For , although their largest telescopes do not exceed three feet , they magnify much more than those of a hundred with us , and show the stars with greater clearness . 
They have observed ninety three different comets , and settled their periods with great exactness . 
If any town should engage in rebellion or mutiny , fall into violent factions , or refuse to pay the usual tribute , the king has two methods of reducing them to obedience . 
But there is still indeed a more weighty reason , why the kings of this country have been always averse from executing so terrible an action , unless upon the utmost necessity . 
Of all this the people are well apprised , and understand how far to carry their obstinacy , where their liberty or property is concerned . 
The author leaves Laputa is conveyed to Balnibarbi arrives at the metropolis . 
A description of the metropolis , and the country adjoining . 
The author hospitably received by a great lord . 
His conversation with that lord . 
On the other side , after having seen all the curiosities of the island , I was very desirous to leave it , being heartily weary of those people . 
There was a great lord at court , nearly related to the king , and for that reason alone used with respect . 
He was universally reckoned the most ignorant and stupid person among them . 
He listened to me with great attention , and made very wise observations on all I spoke . 
On the th of February I took leave of his majesty and the court . 
The island being then hovering over a mountain about two miles from it , I was let down from the lowest gallery , in the same manner as I had been taken up . 
I felt some little satisfaction in finding myself on firm ground . 
I walked to the city without any concern , being clad like one of the natives , and sufficiently instructed to converse with them . 
I soon found out the person's house to whom I was recommended , presented my letter from his friend the grandee in the island , and was received with much kindness . 
This great lord , whose name was Munodi , ordered me an apartment in his own house , where I continued during my stay , and was entertained in a most hospitable manner . 
The people in the streets walked fast , looked wild , their eyes fixed , and were generally in rags . 
This lord Munodi was a person of the first rank , and had been some years governor of Lagado but , by a cabal of ministers , was discharged for insufficiency . 
However , the king treated him with tenderness , as a well meaning man , but of a low contemptible understanding . 
I answered , that his excellency's prudence , quality , and fortune , had exempted him from those defects , which folly and beggary had produced in others . 
I told his excellency that I was entirely at his disposal and accordingly we set out next morning . 
Neither do I remember to have seen a more delightful prospect . 
We came at length to the house , which was indeed a noble structure , built according to the best rules of ancient architecture . 
The fountains , gardens , walks , avenues , and groves , were all disposed with exact judgment and taste . 
CHAPTER V. The author permitted to see the grand academy of Lagado . 
The arts wherein the professors employ themselves . 
This academy is not an entire single building , but a continuation of several houses on both sides of a street , which growing waste , was purchased and applied to that use . 
I was received very kindly by the warden , and went for many days to the academy . 
Every room has in it one or more projectors and I believe I could not be in fewer than five hundred rooms . 
The first man I saw was of a meagre aspect , with sooty hands and face , his hair and beard long , ragged , and singed in several places . 
His clothes , shirt , and skin , were all of the same colour . 
I made him a small present , for my lord had furnished me with money on purpose , because he knew their practice of begging from all who go to see them . 
I went into another chamber , but was ready to hasten back , being almost overcome with a horrible stink . 
My conductor pressed me forward , conjuring me in a whisper to give no offence , which would be highly resented and therefore I durst not so much as stop my nose . 
The projector of this cell was the most ancient student of the academy his face and beard were of a pale yellow his hands and clothes daubed over with filth . 
When I was presented to him , he gave me a close embrace , a compliment I could well have excused . 
He had a weekly allowance , from the society , of a vessel filled with human ordure , about the bigness of a Bristol barrel . 
I saw another at work to calcine ice into gunpowder who likewise showed me a treatise he had written concerning the malleability of fire , which he intended to publish . 
It was indeed my misfortune to find them at that time not very perfect in their lessons , and the professor himself happened to be generally mistaken . 
This artist is much encouraged and esteemed by the whole fraternity . 
In another apartment I was highly pleased with a projector who had found a device of ploughing the ground with hogs , to save the charges of ploughs , cattle , and labour . 
However it is not doubted , that this invention may be capable of great improvement . 
I went into another room , where the walls and ceiling were all hung round with cobwebs , except a narrow passage for the artist to go in and out . 
At my entrance , he called aloud to me , not to disturb his webs . 
, and the patient recovered . 
I saw him try both experiments upon a dog , but could not discern any effect from the former . 
After the latter the animal was ready to burst , and made so violent a discharge as was very offensive to me and my companion . 
The dog died on the spot , and we left the doctor endeavouring to recover him , by the same operation . 
I visited many other apartments , but shall not trouble my reader with all the curiosities I observed , being studious of brevity . 
He told us he had been thirty years employing his thoughts for the improvement of human life . 
He had two large rooms full of wonderful curiosities , and fifty men at work . 
We crossed a walk to the other part of the academy , where , as I have already said , the projectors in speculative learning resided . 
The first professor I saw , was in a very large room , with forty pupils about him . 
But the world would soon be sensible of its usefulness and he flattered himself , that a more noble , exalted thought never sprang in any other man's head . 
He then led me to the frame , about the sides , whereof all his pupils stood in ranks . 
It was twenty feet square , placed in the middle of the room . 
The superfices was composed of several bits of wood , about the bigness of a die , but some larger than others . 
They were all linked together by slender wires . 
The professor then desired me to observe for he was going to set his engine at work . 
We next went to the school of languages , where three professors sat in consultation upon improving that of their own country . 
The first project was , to shorten discourse , by cutting polysyllables into one , and leaving out verbs and participles , because , in reality , all things imaginable are but norms . 
The other project was , a scheme for entirely abolishing all words whatsoever and this was urged as a great advantage in point of health , as well as brevity . 
Therefore the room where company meet who practise this art , is full of all things , ready at hand , requisite to furnish matter for this kind of artificial converse . 
And thus ambassadors would be qualified to treat with foreign princes , or ministers of state , to whose tongues they were utter strangers . 
I was at the mathematical school , where the master taught his pupils after a method scarce imaginable to us in Europe . 
The proposition , and demonstration , were fairly written on a thin wafer , with ink composed of a cephalic tincture . 
This , the student was to swallow upon a fasting stomach , and for three days following , eat nothing but bread and water . 
As the wafer digested , the tincture mounted to his brain , bearing the proposition along with it . 
A further account of the academy . 
The author proposes some improvements , which are honourably received . 
But , however , I shall so far do justice to this part of the Academy , as to acknowledge that all of them were not so visionary . 
There was a most ingenious doctor , who seemed to be perfectly versed in the whole nature and system of government . 
When parties in a state are violent , he offered a wonderful contrivance to reconcile them . 
Let the occiputs , thus cut off , be interchanged , applying each to the head of his opposite party man . 
It seems indeed to be a work that requires some exactness , but the professor assured us , that if it were dexterously performed , the cure would be infallible . 
I heard a very warm debate between two professors , about the most commodious and effectual ways and means of raising money , without grieving the subject . 
The women were proposed to be taxed according to their beauty and skill in dressing , wherein they had the same privilege with the men , to be determined by their own judgment . 
But constancy , chastity , good sense , and good nature , were not rated , because they would not bear the charge of collecting . 
Another professor showed me a large paper of instructions for discovering plots and conspiracies against the government . 
The whole discourse was written with great acuteness , containing many observations , both curious and useful for politicians but , as I conceived , not altogether complete . 
This I ventured to tell the author , and offered , if he pleased , to supply him with some additions . 
He received my proposition with more compliance than is usual among writers , especially those of the projecting species , professing he would be glad to receive further information . 
When this method fails , they have two others more effectual , which the learned among them call acrostics and anagrams . 
First , they can decipher all initial letters into political meanings . 
And this is the anagrammatic method . 
The professor made me great acknowledgments for communicating these observations , and promised to make honourable mention of me in his treatise . 
I saw nothing in this country that could invite me to a longer continuance , and began to think of returning home to England . 
The author leaves Lagado arrives at Maldonada . 
He takes a short voyage to Glubbdubdrib . 
His reception by the governor . 
This island of Luggnagg stands south eastward of Japan , about a hundred leagues distant . 
There is a strict alliance between the Japanese emperor and the king of Luggnagg which affords frequent opportunities of sailing from one island to the other . 
I determined therefore to direct my course this way , in order to my return to Europe . 
I hired two mules , with a guide , to show me the way , and carry my small baggage . 
I took leave of my noble protector , who had shown me so much favour , and made me a generous present at my departure . 
My journey was without any accident or adventure worth relating . 
there was no ship in the harbour bound for Luggnagg , nor likely to be in some time . 
The town is about as large as Portsmouth . 
I soon fell into some acquaintance , and was very hospitably received . 
He offered himself and a friend to accompany me , and that I should be provided with a small convenient bark for the voyage . 
Glubbdubdrib , as nearly as I can interpret the word , signifies the island of sorcerers or magicians . 
It is about one third as large as the Isle of Wight , and extremely fruitful it is governed by the head of a certain tribe , who are all magicians . 
This tribe marries only among each other , and the eldest in succession is prince or governor . 
He has a noble palace , and a park of about three thousand acres , surrounded by a wall of hewn stone twenty feet high . 
In this park are several small enclosures for cattle , corn , and gardening . 
The governor and his family are served and attended by domestics of a kind somewhat unusual . 
He understood the language of Balnibarbi , although it was different from that of this island . 
I had the honour to dine with the governor , where a new set of ghosts served up the meat , and waited at table . 
I now observed myself to be less terrified than I had been in the morning . 
I stayed till sunset , but humbly desired his highness to excuse me for not accepting his invitation of lodging in the palace . 
After this manner we continued in the island for ten days , most part of every day with the governor , and at night in our lodging . 
And one thing I might depend upon , that they would certainly tell me the truth , for lying was a talent of no use in the lower world . 
I made my humble acknowledgments to his highness for so great a favour . 
We were in a chamber , from whence there was a fair prospect into the park . 
Alexander was called up into the room it was with great difficulty that I understood his Greek , and had but little of my own . 
He assured me upon his honour that he was not poisoned , but died of a bad fever by excessive drinking . 
Next , I saw Hannibal passing the Alps , who told me he had not a drop of vinegar in his camp . 
I saw Caesar and Pompey at the head of their troops , just ready to engage . 
I saw the former , in his last great triumph . 
I desired that the senate of Rome might appear before me , in one large chamber , and an assembly of somewhat a later age in counterview , in another . 
The first seemed to be an assembly of heroes and demigods the other , a knot of pedlars , pick pockets , highwayman , and bullies . 
The governor , at my request , gave the sign for Caesar and Brutus to advance towards us . 
I chiefly fed mine eyes with beholding the destroyers of tyrants and usurpers , and the restorers of liberty to oppressed and injured nations . 
But it is impossible to express the satisfaction I received in my own mind , after such a manner as to make it a suitable entertainment to the reader . 
A further account of Glubbdubdrib . 
Ancient and modern history corrected . 
Having a desire to see those ancients who were most renowned for wit and learning , I set apart one day on purpose . 
I knew , and could distinguish those two heroes , at first sight , not only from the crowd , but from each other . 
Homer was the taller and comelier person of the two , walked very erect for one of his age , and his eyes were the most quick and piercing I ever beheld . 
Aristotle stooped much , and made use of a staff . 
His visage was meagre , his hair lank and thin , and his voice hollow . 
He predicted the same fate to ATTRACTION , whereof the present learned are such zealous asserters . 
I spent five days in conversing with many others of the ancient learned . 
I saw most of the first Roman emperors . 
I prevailed on the governor to call up Heliogabalus's cooks to dress us a dinner , but they could not show us much of their skill , for want of materials . 
A helot of Agesilaus made us a dish of Spartan broth , but I was not able to get down a second spoonful . 
But my disappointment was grievous and unexpected . 
For , instead of a long train with royal diadems , I saw in one family two fiddlers , three spruce courtiers , and an Italian prelate . 
In another , a barber , an abbot , and two cardinals . 
I have too great a veneration for crowned heads , to dwell any longer on so nice a subject . 
But as to counts , marquises , dukes , earls , and the like , I was not so scrupulous . 
And I confess , it was not without some pleasure , that I found myself able to trace the particular features , by which certain families are distinguished , up to their originals . 
I was chiefly disgusted with modern history . 
a great number of persons concerned were called up and , upon a very slight examination , discovered such a scene of infamy , that I cannot reflect upon it without some seriousness . 
I had often read of some great services done to princes and states , and desired to see the persons by whom those services were performed . 
As to the rest , I had never once heard of them . 
Among others , there was one person , whose case appeared a little singular . 
He had a youth about eighteen years old standing by his side . 
I was so curious to know the truth of this story , that I desired Agrippa might be called , who was admiral in that fight . 
He appeared , and confirmed the whole account but with much more advantage to the captain , whose modesty had extenuated or concealed a great part of his merit . 
The author returns to Maldonada . 
Sails to the kingdom of Luggnagg . 
He is sent for to court . 
The manner of his admittance . 
The king's great lenity to his subjects . 
The two gentlemen , and some others , were so generous and kind as to furnish me with provisions , and see me on board . 
I was a month in this voyage . 
We had one violent storm , and were under a necessity of steering westward to get into the trade wind , which holds for above sixty leagues . 
On the st of April , , we sailed into the river of Clumegnig , which is a seaport town , at the south east point of Luggnagg . 
We cast anchor within a league of the town , and made a signal for a pilot . 
, and was now endeavouring to get to Japan , whence I might find a convenience of returning to my own country . 
The officer said , I must be confined till he could receive orders from court , for which he would write immediately , and hoped to receive an answer in a fortnight . 
I was invited by several persons , chiefly out of curiosity , because it was reported that I came from countries very remote , of which they had never heard . 
By his assistance , I was able to hold a conversation with those who came to visit me but this consisted only of their questions , and my answers . 
The despatch came from court about the time we expected . 
, by a party of ten horse . 
However , this was a peculiar grace , not allowed to any but persons of the highest rank , when they desire an admittance . 
Neither is there any remedy because it is capital for those , who receive an audience to spit or wipe their mouths in his majesty's presence . 
But this good prince was so gracious as to forgive the poor page his whipping , upon promise that he would do so no more , without special orders . 
To return from this digression . 
This is the compliment , established by the laws of the land , for all persons admitted to the king's presence . 
I spoke in the Balnibarbian tongue , and my interpreter delivered my meaning in that of Luggnagg . 
I staid three months in this country , out of perfect obedience to his majesty who was pleased highly to favour me , and made me very honourable offers . 
But I thought it more consistent with prudence and justice to pass the remainder of my days with my wife and family . 
CHAPTER X. The Luggnaggians commended . 
A particular description of the Struldbrugs , with many conversations between the author and some eminent persons upon that subject . 
I had many acquaintance , and among persons of the best fashion and being always attended by my interpreter , the conversation we had was not disagreeable . 
In the pursuit of which , by thrift and management , I might reasonably expect , in about two hundred years , to be the wealthiest man in the kingdom . 
I would exactly set down the several changes in customs , language , fashions of dress , diet , and diversions . 
By all which acquirements , I should be a living treasure of knowledge and wisdom , and certainly become the oracle of the nation . 
I would never marry after threescore , but live in a hospitable manner , yet still on the saving side . 
But my choice and constant companions should be a set of my own immortal brotherhood among whom , I would elect a dozen from the most ancient , down to my own contemporaries . 
I should then see the discovery of the longitude , the perpetual motion , the universal medicine , and many other great inventions , brought to the utmost perfection . 
That in the two kingdoms above mentioned , where , during his residence , he had conversed very much , he observed long life to be the universal desire and wish of mankind . 
That whoever had one foot in the grave was sure to hold back the other as strongly as he could . 
That the oldest had still hopes of living one day longer , and looked on death as the greatest evil , from which nature always prompted him to retreat . 
Only in this island of Luggnagg the appetite for living was not so eager , from the continual example of the STRULDBRUGS before their eyes . 
And he appealed to me , whether in those countries I had travelled , as well as my own , I had not observed the same general disposition . 
After this preface , he gave me a particular account of the STRULDBRUGS among them . 
He said , they commonly acted like mortals till about thirty years old after which , by degrees , they grew melancholy and dejected , increasing in both till they came to fourscore . 
Envy and impotent desires are their prevailing passions . 
But those objects against which their envy seems principally directed , are the vices of the younger sort and the deaths of the old . 
At ninety , they lose their teeth and hair they have at that age no distinction of taste , but eat and drink whatever they can get , without relish or appetite . 
The diseases they were subject to still continue , without increasing or diminishing . 
In talking , they forget the common appellation of things , and the names of persons , even of those who are their nearest friends and relations . 
with their neighbours the mortals and thus they lie under the disadvantage of living like foreigners in their own country . 
This was the account given me of the STRULDBRUGS , as near as I can remember . 
They are despised and hated by all sorts of people . 
They were the most mortifying sight I ever beheld and the women more horrible than the men . 
The reader will easily believe , that from what I had hear and seen , my keen appetite for perpetuity of life was much abated . 
I grew heartily ashamed of the pleasing visions I had formed and thought no tyrant could invent a death into which I would not run with pleasure , from such a life . 
The author leaves Luggnagg , and sails to Japan . 
From thence he returns in a Dutch ship to Amsterdam , and from Amsterdam to England . 
But I hope the Dutch , upon this notice , will be curious and able enough to supply my defects . 
, and a red diamond , which I sold in England for eleven hundred pounds . 
On the th of May , , I took a solemn leave of his majesty , and all my friends . 
This prince was so gracious as to order a guard to conduct me to Glanguenstald , which is a royal port to the south west part of the island . 
In six days I found a vessel ready to carry me to Japan , and spent fifteen days in the voyage . 
At landing , I showed the custom house officers my letter from the king of Luggnagg to his imperial majesty . 
They knew the seal perfectly well it was as broad as the palm of my hand . 
The impression was , A KING LIFTING UP A LAME BEGGAR FROM THE EARTH . 
The magistrates of the town , hearing of my letter , received me as a public minister . 
This interpreter was a person employed to transact affairs with the Hollanders . 
He soon conjectured , by my countenance , that I was a European , and therefore repeated his majesty's commands in Low Dutch , which he spoke perfectly well . 
For he assured me , that if the secret should be discovered by my countrymen the Dutch , they would cut my throat in the voyage . 
On the th day of June , , I arrived at Nangasac , after a very long and troublesome journey . 
I soon fell into the company of some Dutch sailors belonging to the Amboyna , of Amsterdam , a stout ship of tons . 
I had lived long in Holland , pursuing my studies at Leyden , and I spoke Dutch well . 
The seamen soon knew whence I came last they were curious to inquire into my voyages and course of life . 
I made up a story as short and probable as I could , but concealed the greatest part . 
I knew many persons in Holland . 
I was able to invent names for my parents , whom I pretended to be obscure people in the province of Gelderland . 
Nothing happened worth mentioning in this voyage . 
We sailed with a fair wind to the Cape of Good Hope , where we staid only to take in fresh water . 
From Amsterdam I soon after set sail for England , in a small vessel belonging to that city . 
On the th of April we put in at the Downs . 
I landed next morning , and saw once more my native country , after an absence of five years and six months complete . 
I went straight to Redriff , where I arrived the same day at two in the afternoon , and found my wife and family in good health . 
A VOYAGE TO THE COUNTRY OF THE HOUYHNHNMS . 
CHAPTER I. The author sets out as captain of a ship . 
His men conspire against him , confine him a long time to his cabin , and set him on shore in an unknown land . 
He travels up into the country . 
The Yahoos , a strange sort of animal , described . 
The author meets two Houyhnhnms . 
I continued at home with my wife and children about five months , in a very happy condition , if I could have learned the lesson of knowing when I was well . 
On the th , he was parted from us by a storm I heard since my return , that his ship foundered , and none escaped but one cabin boy . 
I had fifty hands onboard and my orders were , that I should trade with the Indians in the South Sea , and make what discoveries I could . 
I told them , I was their prisoner , and would submit . 
They sent me own victuals and drink , and took the government of the ship to themselves . 
Their design was to turn pirates and , plunder the Spaniards , which they could not do till they got more men . 
But first they resolved to sell the goods the ship , and then go to Madagascar for recruits , several among them having died since my confinement . 
Upon the th day of May , , one James Welch came down to my cabin , and said , he had orders from the captain to set me ashore . 
I expostulated with him , but in vain neither would he so much as tell me who their new captain was . 
They rowed about a league , and then set me down on a strand . 
I desired them to tell me what country it was . 
was resolved , after they had sold the lading , to get rid of me in the first place where they could discover land . 
They pushed off immediately , advising me to make haste for fear of being overtaken by the tide , and so bade me farewell . 
In this desolate condition I advanced forward , and soon got upon firm ground , where I sat down on a bank to rest myself , and consider what I had best do . 
The land was divided by long rows of trees , not regularly planted , but naturally growing there was great plenty of grass , and several fields of oats . 
I walked very circumspectly , for fear of being surprised , or suddenly shot with an arrow from behind , or on either side . 
I fell into a beaten road , where I saw many tracts of human feet , and some of cows , but most of horses . 
At last I beheld several animals in a field , and one or two of the same kind sitting in trees . 
Their shape was very singular and deformed , which a little discomposed me , so that I lay down behind a thicket to observe them better . 
Some of them coming forward near the place where I lay , gave me an opportunity of distinctly marking their form . 
They climbed high trees as nimbly as a squirrel , for they had strong extended claws before and behind , terminating in sharp points , and hooked . 
They would often spring , and bound , and leap , with prodigious agility . 
The dugs hung between their fore feet , and often reached almost to the ground as they walked . 
The hair of both sexes was of several colours , brown , red , black , and yellow . 
Upon the whole , I never beheld , in all my travels , so disagreeable an animal , or one against which I naturally conceived so strong an antipathy . 
I had not got far , when I met one of these creatures full in my way , and coming up directly to me . 
But looking on my left hand , I saw a horse walking softly in the field which my persecutors having sooner discovered , was the cause of their flight . 
I would have pursued my journey , but he placed himself directly in the way , yet looking with a very mild aspect , never offering the least violence . 
But this animal seemed to receive my civilities with disdain , shook his head , and bent his brows , softly raising up his right fore foot to remove my hand . 
Then he neighed three or four times , but in so different a cadence , that I almost began to think he was speaking to himself , in some language of his own . 
The two horses came up close to me , looking with great earnestness upon my face and hands . 
appeared to be much surprised the latter felt the lappet of my coat , and finding it to hang loose about me , they both looked with new signs of wonder . 
In return of which favour , I will make you a present of this knife and bracelet , taking them out of my pocket . 
I plainly observed that their language expressed the passions very well , and the words might , with little pains , be resolved into an alphabet more easily than the Chinese . 
Then the bay tried me with a second word , much harder to be pronounced but reducing it to the English orthography , may be spelt thus , HOUYHNHNM . 
I did not succeed in this so well as in the former but after two or three farther trials , I had better fortune and they both appeared amazed at my capacity . 
The author conducted by a Houyhnhnm to his house . 
The food of the Houyhnhnms . 
The author in distress for want of meat . 
His manner of feeding in this country . 
However , this confirmed my first opinion , that a people who could so far civilise brute animals , must needs excel in wisdom all the nations of the world . 
The gray came in just after , and thereby prevented any ill treatment which the others might have given me . 
He neighed to them several times in a style of authority , and received answers . 
We went through the second room towards the third . 
I began to think that this house must belong to some person of great note among them , because there appeared so much ceremony before I could gain admittance . 
But , that a man of quality should be served all by horses , was beyond my comprehension . 
I feared my brain was disturbed by my sufferings and misfortunes . 
I roused myself , and looked about me in the room where I was left alone this was furnished like the first , only after a more elegant manner . 
I rubbed my eyes often , but the same objects still occurred . 
I pinched my arms and sides to awake myself , hoping I might be in a dream . 
I then absolutely concluded , that all these appearances could be nothing else but necromancy and magic . 
They were all tied by the neck with strong withes fastened to a beam they held their food between the claws of their fore feet , and tore it with their teeth . 
The master horse ordered a sorrel nag , one of his servants , to untie the largest of these animals , and take him into the yard . 
The beast and I were brought close together , and by our countenances diligently compared both by master and servant , who thereupon repeated several times the word YAHOO . 
between his hoof and pastern I took it in my hand , and , having smelt it , returned it to him again as civilly as I could . 
He afterwards showed me a wisp of hay , and a fetlock full of oats but I shook my head , to signify that neither of these were food for me . 
This the master horse observed by my behaviour , and therefore sent the YAHOO back to his kennel . 
While we were thus engaged , I observed a cow passing by , whereupon I pointed to her , and expressed a desire to go and milk her . 
She gave me a large bowlful , of which I drank very heartily , and found myself well refreshed . 
About noon , I saw coming towards the house a kind of vehicle drawn like a sledge by four YAHOOS . 
There was in it an old steed , who seemed to be of quality he alighted with his hind feet forward , having by accident got a hurt in his left fore foot . 
He came to dine with our horse , who received him with great civility . 
They dined in the best room , and had oats boiled in milk for the second course , which the old horse ate warm , but the rest cold . 
Their mangers were placed circular in the middle of the room , and divided into several partitions , round which they sat on their haunches , upon bosses of straw . 
The behaviour of the young colt and foal appeared very modest , and that of the master and mistress extremely cheerful and complaisant to their guest . 
I happened to wear my gloves , which the master gray observing , seemed perplexed , discovering signs of wonder what I had done to my fore feet . 
This occasioned farther talk and I saw the company was pleased with my behaviour , whereof I soon found the good effects . 
When dinner was done , the master horse took me aside , and by signs and words made me understand the concern he was in that I had nothing to eat . 
Oats in their tongue are called HLUNNH . 
The horse immediately ordered a white mare servant of his family to bring me a good quantity of oats in a sort of wooden tray . 
These I heated before the fire , as well as I could , and rubbed them till the husks came off , which I made a shift to winnow from the grain . 
I ground and beat them between two stones then took water , and made them into a paste or cake , which I toasted at the fire and eat warm with milk . 
And I cannot but observe , that I never had one hours sickness while I stayed in this island . 
This is enough to say upon the subject of my diet , wherewith other travellers fill their books , as if the readers were personally concerned whether we fare well or ill . 
When it grew towards evening , the master horse ordered a place for me to lodge in it was but six yards from the house and separated from the stable of the YAHOOS . 
Here I got some straw , and covering myself with my own clothes , slept very sound . 
But I was in a short time better accommodated , as the reader shall know hereafter , when I come to treat more particularly about my way of living . 
The author studies to learn the language . 
The Houyhnhnm , his master , assists in teaching him . 
Several Houyhnhnms of quality come out of curiosity to see the author . 
He gives his master a short account of his voyage . 
In this employment , a sorrel nag , one of the under servants , was very ready to assist me . 
The emperor Charles V. made almost the same observation , when he said that if he were to speak to his horse , it should be in High Dutch . 
The curiosity and impatience of my master were so great , that he spent many hours of his leisure to instruct me . 
that I must be a YAHOO but my teachableness , civility , and cleanliness , astonished him which were qualities altogether opposite to those animals . 
To help my memory , I formed all I learned into the English alphabet , and writ the words down , with the translations . 
This last , after some time , I ventured to do in my master's presence . 
It cost me much trouble to explain to him what I was doing for the inhabitants have not the least idea of books or literature . 
In about ten weeks time , I was able to understand most of his questions and in three months , could give him some tolerable answers . 
, with some appearance of cunning , and the strongest disposition to mischief , were observed to be the most unteachable of all brutes . 
It was with some difficulty , and by the help of many signs , that I brought him to understand me . 
He replied , that I must needs be mistaken , or that I said the thing which was not for they have no word in their language to express lying or falsehood . 
He knew it was impossible that there could be a country beyond the sea , or that a parcel of brutes could move a wooden vessel whither they pleased upon water . 
He was sure no HOUYHNHNM alive could make such a vessel , nor would trust YAHOOS to manage it . 
The word HOUYHNHNM , in their tongue , signifies a HORSE , and , in its etymology , the PERFECTION OF NATURE . 
These delighted to converse with me they put many questions , and received such answers as I was able to return . 
By all these advantages I made so great a progress , that , in five months from my arrival I understood whatever was spoken , and could express myself tolerably well . 
I have already told the reader , that every night , when the family were gone to bed , it was my custom to strip , and cover myself with my clothes . 
It happened , one morning early , that my master sent for me by the sorrel nag , who was his valet . 
When he came I was fast asleep , my clothes fallen off on one side , and my shirt above my waist . 
Whereupon I first unbuttoned my coat , and pulled it off . 
I did the same with my waistcoat . 
I drew off my shoes , stockings , and breeches . 
I let my shirt down to my waist , and drew up the bottom fastening it like a girdle about my middle , to hide my nakedness . 
My master observed the whole performance with great signs of curiosity and admiration . 
He desired to see no more and gave me leave to put on my clothes again , for I was shuddering with cold . 
I described the ship to him in the best terms I could , and explained , by the help of my handkerchief displayed , how it was driven forward by the wind . 
our countrymen would hardly think it probable that a HOUYHNHNM should be the presiding creature of a nation , and a YAHOO the brute . 
The Houyhnhnm's notion of truth and falsehood . 
The author's discourse disapproved by his master . 
The author gives a more particular account of himself , and the accidents of his voyage . 
And these were all the notions he had concerning that faculty of lying , so perfectly well understood , and so universally practised , among human creatures . 
To return from this digression . 
I begged his honour would please to excuse me from proceeding any further , because I was very certain that the account he expected from me would be highly displeasing . 
But he insisted in commanding me to let him know the best and the worst . 
I told him he should be obeyed . 
During this discourse , my master was pleased to interrupt me several times . 
I had made use of many circumlocutions in describing to him the nature of the several crimes for which most of our crew had been forced to fly their country . 
This labour took up several days' conversation , before he was able to comprehend me . 
He was wholly at a loss to know what could be the use or necessity of practising those vices . 
To clear up which , I endeavoured to give some ideas of the desire of power and riches of the terrible effects of lust , intemperance , malice , and envy . 
All this I was forced to define and describe by putting cases and making suppositions . 
After which , like one whose imagination was struck with something never seen or heard of before , he would lift up his eyes with amazement and indignation . 
CHAPTER V. The author at his master's command , informs him of the state of England . 
The causes of war among the princes of Europe . 
The author begins to explain the English constitution . 
Neither are any wars so furious and bloody , or of so long a continuance , as those occasioned by difference in opinion , especially if it be in things indifferent . 
Sometimes the quarrel between two princes is to decide which of them shall dispossess a third of his dominions , where neither of them pretend to any right . 
Sometimes one prince quarrels with another for fear the other should quarrel with him . 
Sometimes a war is entered upon , because the enemy is too strong and sometimes , because he is too weak . 
Sometimes our neighbours want the things which we have , or have the things which we want , and we both fight , till they take ours , or give us theirs . 
It is a very justifiable cause of a war , to invade a country after the people have been wasted by famine , destroyed by pestilence , or embroiled by factions among themselves . 
For , your mouths lying flat with your faces , you can hardly bite each other to any purpose , unless by consent . 
Then as to the claws upon your feet before and behind , they are so short and tender , that one of our YAHOOS would drive a dozen of yours before him . 
And therefore , in recounting the numbers of those who have been killed in battle , I cannot but think you have said the thing which is not . 
I could not forbear shaking my head , and smiling a little at his ignorance . 
I was going on to more particulars , when my master commanded me silence . 
But as my discourse had increased his abhorrence of the whole species , so he found it gave him a disturbance in his mind to which he was wholly a stranger before . 
for its cruelty , or a sharp stone for cutting his hoof . 
But when a creature pretending to reason could be capable of such enormities , he dreaded lest the corruption of that faculty might be worse than brutality itself . 
He added , that he had heard too much upon the subject of war , both in this and some former discourses . 
There was another point , which a little perplexed him at present . 
To this society all the rest of the people are slaves . 
For example , if my neighbour has a mind to my cow , he has a lawyer to prove that he ought to have my cow from me . 
I must then hire another to defend my right , it being against all rules of law that any man should be allowed to speak for himself . 
And therefore I have but two methods to preserve my cow . 
The first is , to gain over my adversary's lawyer with a double fee , who will then betray his client by insinuating that he hath justice on his side . 
These , under the name of precedents , they produce as authorities to justify the most iniquitous opinions and the judges never fail of directing accordingly . 
In pleading , they studiously avoid entering into the merits of the cause but are loud , violent , and tedious , in dwelling upon all circumstances which are not to the purpose . 
A continuation of the state of England under Queen Anne . 
The character of a first minister of state in European courts . 
He said that must needs be a miserable country which cannot furnish food for its own inhabitants . 
But beside all this , the bulk of our people supported themselves by furnishing the necessities or conveniences of life to the rich and to each other . 
But here it was with the utmost difficulty that I brought him to apprehend what I meant . 
To remedy which , there was a sort of people bred up among us in the profession , or pretence , of curing the sick . 
And because I had some skill in the faculty , I would , in gratitude to his honour , let him know the whole mystery and method by which they proceed . 
a medicine equally annoying and disgustful to the bowels which , relaxing the belly , drives down all before it and this they call a purge , or a clyster . 
They are likewise of special use to husbands and wives who are grown weary of their mates to eldest sons , to great ministers of state , and often to princes . 
But having here accidentally mentioned a minister of state , he commanded me , some time after , to inform him , what species of YAHOO I particularly meant by that appellation . 
The worst mark you can receive is a promise , especially when it is confirmed with an oath after which , every wise man retires , and gives over all hopes . 
There are three methods , by which a man may rise to be chief minister . 
, they secure themselves from after reckonings , and retire from the public laden with the spoils of the nation . 
, whom they hate and despise . 
The imperfections of his mind run parallel with those of his body , being a composition of spleen , dullness , ignorance , caprice , sensuality , and pride . 
Without the consent of this illustrious body , no law can be enacted , repealed , or altered and these nobles have likewise the decision of all our possessions , without appeal . 
The author's great love of his native country . 
His master's observations upon the constitution and administration of England , as described by the author , with parallel cases and comparisons . 
His master's observations upon human nature . 
Let me deal so candidly with the reader as to confess that there was yet a much stronger motive for the freedom I took in my representation of things . 
But it was decreed by fortune , my perpetual enemy , that so great a felicity should not fall to my share . 
But he now found he had been mistaken , and that the dissensions of those brutes in his country were owing to the same cause with ours , as I had described them . 
But if they find their project has miscarried , they return home , and , for want of enemies , engage in what I call a civil war among themselves . 
If their prey held out , they would eat till they were ready to burst after which , nature had pointed out to them a certain root that gave them a general evacuation . 
This favourite is hated by the whole herd , and therefore , to protect himself , keeps always near the person of his leader . 
But how far this might be applicable to our courts , and favourites , and ministers of state , my master said I could best determine . 
Another thing he wondered at in the YAHOOS , was their strange disposition to nastiness and dirt whereas there appears to be a natural love of cleanliness in all other animals . 
My master likewise mentioned another quality which his servants had discovered in several Yahoos , and to him was wholly unaccountable . 
And the only remedy they found was , to set him to hard work , after which he would infallibly come to himself . 
I expected every moment that my master would accuse the YAHOOS of those unnatural appetites in both sexes , so common among us . 
But nature , it seems , has not been so expert a school mistress and these politer pleasures are entirely the productions of art and reason on our side of the globe . 
The author relates several particulars of the YAHOOS . 
The great virtues of the HOUYHNHNMS . 
The education and exercise of their youth . 
They are prodigiously nimble from their infancy . 
, and my sorrel nag being by , they durst not venture near us . 
I observed the young animal's flesh to smell very rank , and the stink was somewhat between a weasel and a fox , but much more disagreeable . 
By what I could discover , the YAHOOS appear to be the most unteachable of all animals their capacity never reaching higher than to draw or carry burdens . 
Yet I am of opinion , this defect arises chiefly from a perverse , restive disposition for they are cunning , malicious , treacherous , and revengeful . 
They are strong and hardy , but of a cowardly spirit , and , by consequence , insolent , abject , and cruel . 
It is observed , that the red haired of both sexes are more libidinous and mischievous than the rest , whom yet they much exceed in strength and activity . 
, which they greedily devour . 
They swim from their infancy like frogs , and are able to continue long under water , where they often take fish , which the females carry home to their young . 
And , upon this occasion , I hope the reader will pardon my relating an odd adventure . 
Being one day abroad with my protector the sorrel nag , and the weather exceeding hot , I entreated him to let me bathe in a river that was near . 
He consented , and I immediately stripped myself stark naked , and went down softly into the stream . 
I was never in my life so terribly frightened . 
The nag was grazing at some distance , not suspecting any harm . 
She embraced me after a most fulsome manner . 
This was a matter of diversion to my master and his family , as well as of mortification to myself . 
So that controversies , wranglings , disputes , and positiveness , in false or dubious propositions , are evils unknown among the HOUYHNHNMS . 
They preserve decency and civility in the highest degrees , but are altogether ignorant of ceremony . 
They have no fondness for their colts or foals , but the care they take in educating them proceeds entirely from the dictates of reason . 
And I observed my master to show the same affection to his neighbour's issue , that he had for his own . 
This caution is necessary , to prevent the country from being overburdened with numbers . 
In their marriages , they are exactly careful to choose such colours as will not make any disagreeable mixture in the breed . 
Courtship , love , presents , jointures , settlements have no place in their thoughts , or terms whereby to express them in their language . 
In educating the youth of both sexes , their method is admirable , and highly deserves our imitation . 
it is immediately supplied by unanimous consent and contribution . 
A grand debate at the general assembly of the HOUYHNHNMS , and how it was determined . 
The learning of the HOUYHNHNMS . 
The defectiveness of their language . 
One of these grand assemblies was held in my time , about three months before my departure , whither my master went as the representative of our district . 
Several others declared their sentiments to the same purpose , when my master proposed an expedient to the assembly , whereof he had indeed borrowed the hint from me . 
which most of them had heard of , and many of them had seen . 
This was all my master thought fit to tell me , at that time , of what passed in the grand council . 
The HOUYHNHNMS have no letters , and consequently their knowledge is all traditional . 
I have already observed that they are subject to no diseases , and therefore can have no need of physicians . 
They calculate the year by the revolution of the sun and moon , but use no subdivisions into weeks . 
They are well enough acquainted with the motions of those two luminaries , and understand the nature of eclipses and this is the utmost progress of their astronomy . 
In poetry , they must be allowed to excel all other mortals wherein the justness of their similes , and the minuteness as well as exactness of their descriptions , are indeed inimitable . 
Their buildings , although very rude and simple , are not inconvenient , but well contrived to defend them from all injuries of and heat . 
, they stick them erect in the ground , about ten inches asunder , and then weave in oat straw , or sometimes wattles , between them . 
The roof is made after the same manner , and so are the doors . 
They milk their cows , reap their oats , and do all the work which requires hands , in the same manner . 
They have a kind of hard flints , which , by grinding against other stones , they form into instruments , that serve instead of wedges , axes , and hammers . 
They make a rude kind of earthen and wooden vessels , and bake the former in the sun . 
The word is strongly expressive in their language , but not easily rendered into English it signifies , to retire to his first mother . 
She died about three months after . 
They live generally to seventy , or seventy five years , very seldom to fourscore . 
Some weeks before their death , they feel a gradual decay but without pain . 
During this time they are much visited by their friends , because they cannot go abroad with their usual ease and satisfaction . 
For instance , HHNM YAHOO WHNAHOLM YAHOO , YNLHMNDWIHLMA YAHOO , and an ill contrived house YNHOLMHNMROHLNW YAHOO . 
CHAPTER X. The author's economy , and happy life , among the Houyhnhnms . 
His great improvement in virtue by conversing with them . 
The author has notice given him by his master , that he must depart from the country . 
He falls into a swoon for grief but submits . 
He contrives and finishes a canoe by the help of a fellow servant , and puts to sea at a venture . 
I had settled my little economy to my own heart's content . 
I had worked two chairs with my knife , the sorrel nag helping me in the grosser and more laborious part . 
Of these I also made very tolerable stockings . 
I often got honey out of hollow trees , which I mingled with water , or ate with my bread . 
No man could more verify the truth of these two maxims , That nature is very easily satisfied and , That necessity is the mother of invention . 
I enjoyed perfect health of body , and tranquillity of mind I did not feel the treachery or inconstancy of a friend , nor the injuries of a secret or open enemy . 
Both he and his company would often descend to ask me questions , and receive my answers . 
I had also sometimes the honour of attending my master in his visits to others . 
I admired the strength , comeliness , and speed of the inhabitants and such a constellation of virtues , in such amiable persons , produced in me the highest veneration . 
I observed by his countenance that he was in some perplexity , and at a loss how to begin what he had to speak . 
My master added , that he was daily pressed by the HOUYHNHNMS of the neighbourhood to have the assembly's exhortation executed , which he could not put off much longer . 
I was struck with the utmost grief and despair at my master's discourse and being unable to support the agonies I was under , I fell into a swoon at his feet . 
When I came to myself , he told me that he concluded I had been dead for these people are subject to no such imbecilities of nature . 
, to follow my instruction because I told my master , that his help would be sufficient , and I knew he had a tenderness for me . 
In his company , my first business was to go to that part of the coast where my rebellious crew had ordered me to be set on shore . 
I got upon a height , and looking on every side into the sea fancied I saw a small island toward the north east . 
After I had discovered this island , I considered no further but resolved it should if possible , be the first place of my banishment , leaving the consequence to fortune . 
I laid in a stock of boiled flesh , of rabbits and fowls , and took with me two vessels , one filled with milk and the other with water . 
partly out of kindness , was determined to see me in my canoe , and got several of his neighbouring friends to accompany him . 
I am not ignorant how much I have been censured for mentioning this last particular . 
But , if these censurers were better acquainted with the noble and courteous disposition of the HOUYHNHNMS , they would soon change their opinion . 
I paid my respects to the rest of the HOUYHNHNMS in his honour's company then getting into my canoe , I pushed off from shore . 
He arrives at New Holland , hoping to settle there . 
Is wounded with an arrow by one of the natives . 
Is seized and carried by force into a Portuguese ship . 
The great civilities of the captain . 
The author arrives at England . 
I began this desperate voyage on February , , at nine o'clock in the morning . 
crying out , HNUY ILLA NYHA , MAJAH YAHOO Take care of thyself , gentle YAHOO . 
It was nothing but a rock , with one creek naturally arched by the force of tempests . 
Here I put in my canoe , and climbing a part of the rock , I could plainly discover land to the east , extending from south to north . 
I lay all night in my canoe and repeating my voyage early in the morning , I arrived in seven hours to the south east point of New Holland . 
I saw no inhabitants in the place where I landed , and being unarmed , I was afraid of venturing far into the country . 
I found some shellfish on the shore , and ate them raw , not daring to kindle a fire , for fear of being discovered by the natives . 
I continued three days feeding on oysters and limpets , to save my own provisions and I fortunately found a brook of excellent water , which gave me great relief . 
On the fourth day , venturing out early a little too far , I saw twenty or thirty natives upon a height not above five hundred yards from me . 
They were stark naked , men , women , and children , round a fire , as I could discover by the smoke . 
One of them spied me , and gave notice to the rest five of them advanced toward me , leaving the women and children at the fire . 
, I made a shift to suck the wound , and dress it as well as I could . 
but I did not observe it , till the boat was almost on shore and it was too late to seek another hiding place . 
The seamen at their landing observed my canoe , and rummaging it all over , easily conjectured that the owner could not be far off . 
Four of them , well armed , searched every cranny and lurking hole , till at last they found me flat on my face behind the stone . 
One of the seamen , in Portuguese , bid me rise , and asked who I was . 
I trembled all the while betwixt fear and hatred . 
I told them I was born in England , whence I came about five years ago , and then their country and ours were at peace . 
The honest Portuguese were equally amazed at my strange dress , and the odd manner of delivering my words , which , however , they understood very well . 
I thought it best to comply with their proposal . 
They were very curious to know my story , but I gave them very little satisfaction , and they all conjectured that my misfortunes had impaired my reason . 
In two hours the boat , which went laden with vessels of water , returned , with the captain's command to fetch me on board . 
His name was Pedro de Mendez he was a very courteous and generous person . 
However , I remained silent and sullen I was ready to faint at the very smell of him and his men . 
But one of the seamen prevented me , and having informed the captain , I was chained to my cabin . 
The captain , a wise man , after many endeavours to catch me tripping in some part of my story , at last began to have a better opinion of my veracity . 
I gave him the promise he required but at the same time protested , that I would suffer the greatest hardships , rather than return to live among YAHOOS . 
Our voyage passed without any considerable accident . 
But the greatest part of the day I confined myself to my cabin , to avoid seeing any of the crew . 
The captain had often entreated me to strip myself of my savage dress , and offered to lend me the best suit of clothes he had . 
This I would not be prevailed on to accept , abhorring to cover myself with any thing that had been on the back of a YAHOO . 
I only desired he would lend me two clean shirts , which , having been washed since he wore them , I believed would not so much defile me . 
These I changed every second day , and washed them myself . 
We arrived at Lisbon , Nov . 
At our landing , the captain forced me to cover myself with his cloak , to prevent the rabble from crowding about me . 
I was conveyed to his own house and at my earnest request he led me up to the highest room backwards . 
He accoutred me with other necessaries , all new , which I aired for twenty four hours before I would use them . 
He gained so far upon me , that I ventured to look out of the back window . 
By degrees I was brought into another room , whence I peeped into the street , but drew my head back in a fright . 
In a week's time he seduced me down to the door . 
I found my terror gradually lessened , but my hatred and contempt seemed to increase . 
I was at last bold enough to walk the street in his company , but kept my nose well stopped with rue , or sometimes with tobacco . 
He told me , there was an English ship in the port just ready to sail , and he would furnish me with all things necessary . 
It would be tedious to repeat his arguments , and my contradictions . 
I complied at last , finding I could not do better . 
I left Lisbon the th day of November , in an English merchantman , but who was the master I never inquired . 
Don Pedro accompanied me to the ship , and lent me twenty pounds . 
He took kind leave of me , and embraced me at parting , which I bore as well as I could . 
During this last voyage I had no commerce with the master or any of his men but , pretending I was sick , kept close in my cabin . 
At the time I am writing , it is five years since my last return to England . 
My horses understand me tolerably well I converse with them at least four hours every day . 
They are strangers to bridle or saddle they live in great amity with me and friendship to each other . 
His design in publishing this work . 
His censure of those travellers who swerve from the truth . 
The author clears himself from any sinister ends in writing . 
The method of planting colonies . 
The right of the crown to those countries described by the author is justified . 
The difficulty of conquering them . 
The author takes his last leave of the reader proposes his manner of living for the future gives good advice , and concludes . 
It is easy for us who travel into remote countries , which are seldom visited by Englishmen or other Europeans , to form descriptions of wonderful animals both at sea and land . 
NEC SI MISERUM FORTUNA SINONEM FINXIT , VANUM ETIAM , MENDACEMQUE IMPROBA FINGET . 
I know likewise , that writers of travels , like dictionary makers , are sunk into oblivion by the weight and bulk of those who come last , and therefore lie uppermost . 
, and adding many new discoveries of their own , justle me out of vogue , and stand in my place , making the world forget that ever I was an author . 
This indeed would be too great a mortification , if I wrote for fame but as my sole intention was the public good , I cannot be altogether disappointed . 
But I forbear descanting further , and rather leave the judicious reader to his own remarks and application . 
Besides , I meddle not the least with any party , but write without passion , prejudice , or ill will against any man , or number of men , whatsoever . 
I write without any view to profit or praise . 
I never suffer a word to pass that may look like reflection , or possibly give the least offence , even to those who are most ready to take it . 
But I doubt whether our conquests in the countries I treat of would be as easy as those of Ferdinando Cortez over the naked Americans . 
The HOUYHNHNMS indeed appear not to be so well prepared for war , a science to which they are perfect strangers , and especially against missive weapons . 
However , supposing myself to be a minister of state , I could never give my advice for invading them . 
Their prudence , unanimity , unacquaintedness with fear , and their love of their country , would amply supply all defects in the military art . 
But I had another reason , which made me less forward to enlarge his majesty's dominions by my discoveries . 
To say the truth , I had conceived a few scruples with relation to the distributive justice of princes upon those occasions . 
Here commences a new dominion acquired with a title by divine right . 
the few questions I asked her . 
Yet , the smell of a YAHOO continuing very offensive , I always keep my nose well stopped with rue , lavender , or tobacco leaves . 
My reconcilement to the YAHOO kind in general might not be so difficult , if they would be content with those vices and follies only which nature has entitled them to . 
But I , who had more experience , could plainly observe some rudiments of it among the wild YAHOOS . 
Footnotes A stang is a pole or perch sixteen feet and a half . 
An act of parliament has been since passed by which some breaches of trust have been made capital . 
This is the revised text adopted by Dr . 
takes another form , commencing I told him that should I happen to live in a kingdom where lots were in vogue , c . 
The names Tribnia and Langdon an not mentioned , and the close stool and its signification do not occur . 
This paragraph is not in the original editions . 
The original editions and Hawksworth's have Rotherhith here , though earlier in the work , Redriff is said to have been Gulliver's home in England . 
