This etext was prepared by Dianne Bean of Chino Valley , AZ , using OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere . 
For of all living authors now that Tolstoi has gone I could least dispense with W. H. Hudson . 
Without apparent effort he takes you with him into a rare , free , natural world , and always you are refreshed , stimulated , enlarged , by going there . 
He is of course a distinguished naturalist , probably the most acute , broad minded , and understanding observer of Nature living . 
Hudson has indeed the gifts and knowledge of a Naturalist , but that is a mere fraction of his value and interest . 
A really great writer such as this is no more to be circumscribed by a single word than America by the part of it called New York . 
The expert knowledge which Hudson has of Nature gives to all his work backbone and surety of fibre , and to his sense of beauty an intimate actuality . 
But his real eminence and extraordinary attraction lie in his spirit and philosophy . 
We feel from his writings that he is nearer to Nature than other men , and yet more truly civilized . 
The competitive , towny culture , the queer up to date commercial knowingness with which we are so busy coating ourselves simply will not stick to him . 
I feel the 'strangeness' only with regard to my fellow men , especially in towns , where they exist in conditions unnatural to me , but congenial to them . 
This unspoiled unity with Nature pervades all his writings they are remote from the fret and dust and pettiness of town life they are large , direct , free . 
Somewhere Hudson says The sense of the beautiful is God's best gift to the human soul . 
So it is and to pass that gift on to others , in such measure as herein is expressed , must surely have been happiness to him who wrote Green Mansions . 
In form and spirit the book is unique , a simple romantic narrative transmuted by sheer glow of beauty into a prose poem . 
The book is soaked through and through with a strange beauty . 
I will not go on singing its praises , or trying to make it understood , because I have other words to say of its author . 
Thus he spake in The Purple Land Ah , yes , we are all vainly seeking after happiness in the wrong way . 
We had only to conquer Nature , find out her secrets , make her our obedient slave , then the Earth would be Eden , and every man Adam and every woman Eve . 
And again For here the religion that languishes in crowded cities or steals shamefaced to hide itself in dim churches flourishes greatly , filling the soul with a solemn joy . 
All Hudson's books breathe this spirit of revolt against our new enslavement by towns and machinery , and are true oases in an age so dreadfully resigned to the pale mechanician . 
But Hudson is not , as Tolstoi was , a conscious prophet his spirit is freer , more willful , whimsical almost perverse and far more steeped in love of beauty . 
I would that every man , woman , and child in England were made to read him and I would that you in America would take him to heart . 
He is a tonic , a deep refreshing drink , with a strange and wonderful flavour he is a mine of new interests , and ways of thought instinctively right . 
As a simple narrator he is well nigh unsurpassed as a stylist he has few , if any , living equals . 
And in all his work there is an indefinable freedom from any thought of after benefit even from the desire that we should read him . 
Style should not obtrude between a writer and his reader it should be servant , not master . 
From almost any page of his books an example might be taken . 
Or this , as the quintessence of a sly remark After that Mantel got on to his horse and rode away . 
So one might go on quoting felicity for ever from this writer . 
A very great writer and to my thinking the most valuable our age possesses . 
Let us hope that now , at last , the romance weaving will come to an end . 
It was felt in a vague way by his intimates that he had met with unusual experiences which had profoundly affected him and changed the course of his life . 
To me alone was the truth known , and I must now tell , briefly as possible , how my great friendship and close intimacy with him came about . 
Yet he was an alien , a Venezuelan , one of that turbulent people on our border whom the colonists have always looked on as their natural enemies . 
I had no sooner made his acquaintance than I ceased to wonder at the esteem and even affection with which he , a Venezuelan , was regarded in this British colony . 
It was , all felt , a good thing to have a Mr. Abel in Georgetown . 
That it was indeed good for me I quickly discovered . 
I had not looked for such happiness nor , he often said , had he . 
I did not take this seriously , but one morning , when calling to see me at the office , he attacked me in a way that made me downright angry with him . 
He told me that indolence and the use of stimulants was the cause of my bad health . 
He spoke in a mocking way , with a presence of not quite meaning it , but the feeling could not be wholly disguised . 
Stung by his reproaches , I blurted out that he had no right to talk to me , even in fun , in such a way . 
Yes , he said , getting serious , he had the best right that of our friendship . 
He would be no true friend if he kept his peace about such a matter . 
Then , in my haste , I retorted that to me the friendship between us did not seem so perfect and complete as it did to him . 
One condition of friendship is that the partners in it should be known to each other . 
He had had my whole life and mind open to him , to read it as in a book . 
HIS life was a closed and clasped volume to me . 
But he was beforehand with me , and with the morning came a letter begging my forgiveness and asking me to go that evening to dine with him . 
They were accustomed to see him in a more genial mood when he had a friend to dine . 
CHAPTER I Now that we are cool , he said , and regret that we hurt each other , I am not sorry that it happened . 
That was precious , and I desired above everything to keep it . 
But I must think no more about that now . 
I must think only of how I am to tell you my story . 
I will begin at a time when I was twenty three . 
It was early in life to be in the thick of politics , and in trouble to the extent of having to fly my country to save my liberty , perhaps my life . 
Every nation , someone remarks , has the government it deserves , and Venezuela certainly has the one it deserves and that suits it best . 
They have instead a government by cliques , tempered by revolution and a very good government it is , in harmony with the physical conditions of the country and the national temperament . 
In the event of failure such outbreaks are punished , but they are not regarded as immoral . 
On the contrary , men of the highest intelligence and virtue among us are seen taking a leading part in these adventures . 
Our adventure failed because the authorities got wind of the affair and matters were precipitated . 
But the attackers were seized , and some of them shot on the following day . 
In the circumstances we could not look to be pardoned , even on the score of youth . 
Now , when we had reached this comparatively safe breathing place safe , at all events , for the moment I changed my mind about leaving or attempting to leave the country . 
And now , finding myself on the south side of our great river , with unlimited time at my disposal , I determined to gratify this wish . 
My companion took his departure towards the coast , while I set about making preparations and hunting up information from those who had travelled in the interior to trade with the savages . 
I had no fear of being arrested in the semi independent and in most part savage region , as the Guayana authorities concerned themselves little enough about the political upheavals at Caracas . 
The first five or six months I spent in Guayana , after leaving the city of refuge , were eventful enough to satisfy a moderately adventurous spirit . 
But the book was not to be . 
From the mouth of the Meta I journeyed on , intending to visit the settlement of Atahapo , where the great River Guaviare , with other rivers , empties itself into the Orinoco . 
A more miserable place than Manapuri for a man to be ill of a low fever in could not well be imagined . 
The inhabitants mustered about eighty or ninety , mostly Indians of that degenerate class frequently to be met with in small trading outposts . 
To be succeeded , doubtless , by other and possibly greater tragedies . 
My thoughts at that period of suffering were pessimistic in the extreme . 
I flung it upon the floor with a curse and threw myself back on my bed with a groan . 
He affected to be astonished that I should regret its loss . 
He had come to me , he said , to propose something . 
He had lived twenty years at that place , and had got accustomed to the climate , but it would not do for me to remain any longer if I wished to live . 
I must go away at once to a different country to the mountains , where it was open and dry . 
These Indians came all the way from the Queneveta mountains , and were of the Maquiritari tribe . 
From this time my progress towards complete recovery was rapid . 
With the Maquiritari tribe I passed some weeks , and the sweet sensations of returning health made me happy for a time but such sensations seldom outlast convalescence . 
I was no sooner well again than I began to feel a restless spirit stirring in me . 
The monotony of savage life in this place became intolerable . 
After my long listless period the reaction had come , and I wished only for action , adventure no matter how dangerous and for new scenes , new faces , new dialects . 
For it was now in my mind to follow that river to the Amazons , and so down to Para and the Atlantic coast . 
And perhaps it will be as well to state at this point just what I possessed . 
It served as a covering by night , and to keep a man warm and comfortable when travelling in cold and wet weather no better garment was ever made . 
I had a revolver and metal cartridge box in my broad leather belt , also a good hunting knife with strong buckhorn handle and a heavy blade about nine inches long . 
During the tedious interval of waiting on the Chunapay I was told a flattering tale by the village Indians , which eventually caused me to abandon the proposed journey to the Rio Negro . 
These Indians wore necklets , like nearly all the Guayana savages but one , I observed , possessed a necklet unlike that of the others , which greatly aroused my curiosity . 
It was made of thirteen gold plates , irregular in form , about as broad as a man's thumb nail , and linked together with fibres . 
I was allowed to examine it , and had no doubt that the pieces were of pure gold , beaten flat by the savages . 
When questioned about it , they said it was originally obtained from the Indians of Parahuari , and Parahuari , they further said , was a mountainous country west of the Orinoco . 
Every man and woman in that place , they assured me , had such a necklet . 
The Indians gravely shook their heads when I tried to persuade them to take me . 
They were far enough from the Orinoco , and Parahuari was ten , perhaps fifteen , days' journey further on a country unknown to them , where they had no relations . 
As it was , I had two or three very narrow escapes . 
To return from this digression . 
I looked at last on the famous Parahuari mountains , which , I was greatly surprised to find , were after all nothing but hills , and not very high ones . 
This , however , did not impress me . 
And for a time I made no attempt to conciliate him . 
And now all my beautiful dreams all the pleasure and power to be had vanished like a mere mirage on the savannah at noon . 
The rare loveliness of the scene touched and lightened my heart . 
On that side , also to the north and south , there was open forest , but to the west a different prospect met the eye . 
This was the mountain Ytaioa , the chief landmark in that district . 
This unexpected peace which I had found now seemed to me of infinitely greater value than that yellow metal I had missed finding , with all its possibilities . 
My wish now was to rest for a season at this spot , so remote and lovely and peaceful , where I had experienced such unusual feelings and such a blessed disillusionment . 
It was clear to me that the time had come to part with my one remaining valuable trinket the tinder box of chased silver . 
I made myself a cigarette , then drew out the tinder box , with its flint and steel attached to it by means of two small silver chains . 
His eyes brightened a little as they curiously watched my movements , and he pointed without speaking to the glowing coals of fire at my feet . 
I shook my head , and striking the steel , sent out a brilliant spray of sparks , then blew on the tinder and lit my cigarette . 
This done , instead of returning the box to my pocket I passed the chain through the buttonhole of my cloak and let it dangle on my breast as an ornament . 
The Guayana savage judges a man for his staying powers . 
What I really wished to say to him was put in a few words at the conclusion of my well nigh meaningless oration . 
Then I rose , and detaching the silver ornament from my cloak , presented it to him . 
He accepted it not very graciously , as a stranger to these people might have imagined but I was satisfied , feeling sure that I had made a favourable impression . 
Then he called for a drink . 
A large jarful was produced Runi politely quaffed the first cup I followed then the others and the women drank also , a woman taking about one cupful to a man's three . 
Runi and I , however , drank the most , for we had our positions as the two principal personages there to maintain . 
Tongues were loosened now for the alcohol , small as the quantity contained in this mild liquor is , had begun to tell on our brains . 
I would measure my strength against his , and if necessary drink myself into a state of insensibility . 
At last I was scarcely able to stand on my legs . 
But even the seasoned old savage was affected by this time . 
In vino veritas , said the ancients and the principle holds good where there is no vinum , but only mild casserie . 
Now he found that it was not so , that I was a good man . 
His friendliness increased with intoxication . 
He also furnished me with a grass hammock , and had it hung up there and then , so that I could lie down when inclined . 
There was nothing he would not do for me . 
And at last , when many more cups had been emptied , and a third or fourth jar brought out , he began to unburthen his heart of its dark and dangerous secrets . 
But let him and all his people beware of Runi . 
Let him come ! Let Managa come ! I cried , staggering out after him . 
I am your friend , your brother I have no spear and no arrows , but I have this this ! And here I drew out and flourished my revolver . 
Where is Managa ? I continued . 
Where are the hills of Uritay ? He pointed to a star low down in the south west . 
A scream of terror burst out from the women and children , while Runi at my side , in an access of fierce delight and admiration , turned and embraced me . 
to a pulp by means of their own molars , after which it is watered down and put away in troughs to ferment . 
Great is the diligence of these willing slaves but , work how they will , they can only satisfy their lords' love of a big drink at long intervals . 
Besides Runi , there were , in our little community , two oldish men , his cousins I believe , who had wives and grown up children . 
Another family consisted of Piake , Runi's nephew , his brother Kua ko about whom there will be much to say and a sister Oalava . 
Piake had a wife and two children Kua ko was unmarried and about nineteen or twenty years old Oalava was the youngest of the three . 
I believe that Cla cla herself was the only living being who knew the name her parents had bestowed on her at birth . 
So much did she amuse me , although without intending it , that I thought it would be only fair , in my turn , to do something for her entertainment . 
It is true that these exhibitions were always witnessed by the adults with a profound gravity , which would have disheartened a stranger to their ways . 
They were a set of hollow bronze statues that looked at me , but I knew that the living animals inside of them were tickled at my singing , strumming , and pirouetting . 
The walk from the ridge over the savannah was easy , as the barren , stony ground sloped downwards the whole way . 
Lying on my back and gazing up , I felt reluctant to rise and renew my ramble . 
Thus in idleness , with such thoughts for company , I spent my time , glad that no human being , savage or civilized , was with me . 
It was better to be alone to listen to the monkeys that chattered without offending to watch them occupied with the unserious business of their lives . 
I saw more monkeys on that morning than I usually saw in the course of a week's rambling . 
I began to understand from their looks and the old man's vague words that their fear of the wood was superstitious . 
I replied that unless they gave me some more definite information I should certainly go again and put myself in the way of the danger they feared . 
But , like the child in the dark room , they fear the forest only when alone in it , and for this reason always hunt in couples or parties . 
In this place I witnessed a new thing and had a strange experience . 
Sitting on the ground in the shade of a large tree , I began to hear a confused noise as of a coming tempest of wind mixed with shrill calls and cries . 
In the midst of this leafy labyrinth I sat down on a projecting root to cool my blood before attempting to make my way back to my former position . 
It seemed to issue from a thick cluster of broad leaves of a creeper only a few yards from where I sat . 
With my eyes fixed on this green hiding place I waited with suspended breath for its repetition , wondering whether any civilized being had ever listened to such a strain before . 
Surely not , I thought , else the fame of so divine a melody would long ago have been noised abroad . 
I thought of the rialejo , the celebrated organbird or flute bird , and of the various ways in which hearers are affected by it . 
To some its warbling is like the sound of a beautiful mysterious instrument , while to others it seems like the singing of a blithe hearted child with a highly melodious voice . 
I had often heard and listened with delight to the singing of the rialejo in the Guayana forests , but this song , or musical phrase , was utterly unlike it in character . 
It was pure , more expressive , softer so low that at a distance of forty yards I could hardly have heard it . 
But its greatest charm was its resemblance to the human voice a voice purified and brightened to something almost angelic . 
The same voice , but not the same song not the same phrase the notes were different , more varied and rapidly enunciated , as if the singer had been more excited . 
The blood rushed to my heart as I listened my nerves tingled with a strange new delight , the rapture produced by such music heightened by a sense of mystery . 
Of one thing I was , however , now quite convinced , and that was that the singer had been following me all the time . 
The brave young hunter refused again and again but on each occasion he offered to perform some other service or to give me something in exchange for the box . 
Finally we started , he , as usual , armed with his zabatana , with which , I imagined , he would procure more game than usually fell to his little poisoned arrows . 
At length we sat down under a tree , in an open spot close to the border of the wood . 
He sat down very reluctantly , and seemed more troubled in his mind than ever , keeping his eyes continually roving about , while he listened intently to every sound . 
The sounds were not few , owing to the abundance of animal and especially of bird life in this favoured spot . 
I began to question my companion as to some of the cries we heard . 
But no he only said it was uttered by a little bird too little presumably to have a name . 
From the foliage of a neighbouring tree came a few tinkling chirps , as of a small mandolin , two or three strings of which had been carelessly struck by the player . 
By and by a bird came with low , swift flight , its great tail spread open fan wise , and perched itself on an exposed bough not thirty yards from us . 
It was all of a chestnut red colour , long bodied , in size like a big pigeon . 
Look , Kua ko , I said in a whisper , there is a bird for you to kill . 
But he only shook his head , still watchful . 
Give me the blow pipe , then , I said , with a laugh , putting out my hand to take it . 
But he refused to let me take it , knowing that it would only be an arrow wasted if I attempted to shoot anything . 
I laughed again , saying to myself , with some amusement , that Kua ko was not such a bad companion after all that he was not without imagination . 
In this case , judging from my companion's words , they had varied the form of the superstition somewhat , inventing a daughter of a water spirit to be afraid of . 
All at once he sprang to his feet as if overcome with terror and started running at full speed . 
All at once , making me almost jump , so sudden it was , so much nearer and louder than I had ever heard it before , the mysterious melody began . 
Unmistakably it was uttered by the same being heard on former occasions but today it was different in character . 
But later , without losing its friendly tone , it changed again . 
After patiently waiting and listening for some time , I began to look about me with a slight feeling of apprehension . 
As the silence continued unbroken , there was time to dwell on this thought . 
Imaginary terrors began to assail me . 
Ancient fables of men allured by beautiful forms and melodious voices to destruction all at once acquired a fearful significance . 
Or some jaguar or black tiger might steal towards me . 
masked by a bush or tree trunk , to spring upon me unawares . 
A slight rustling sound in the foliage above me made me start and cast up my eyes . 
In another moment it was gone . 
It was only a large araguato , or howling monkey , but I was so unnerved that I could not get rid of the idea that it was something more than a monkey . 
It commanded me to stand still to wait to watch to listen ! Had it cried Listen ! Do not move ! I could not have understood it better . 
Trying as the suspense was , I now felt powerless to escape . 
Something very terrible , I felt convinced , was about to happen , either to destroy or to release me from the spell that held me . 
That the Indians knew a great deal about the mysterious voice , and had held it in great fear , seemed evident . 
For the white man to put himself mentally on their level is not more impossible than for these aborigines to be perfectly open , as children are , towards the white . 
Nothing , therefore , was to be gained by questioning them , or , at all events , by telling them how much the subject attracted me . 
Kua ko was lying in his hammock , smoking , I think certainly not reading . 
When I entered he lifted his head and stared at me , probably surprised to see me alive , unharmed , and in a placid temper . 
I laughed at the look , and , somewhat disconcerted , he dropped his head down again . 
After a minute or two I took the metal match box and tossed it on to his breast . 
He clutched it and , starting up , stared at me in the utmost astonishment . 
He could scarcely believe his good fortune for he had failed to carry out his part of the compact and had resigned himself to the loss of the coveted prize . 
I am not translating his words , but that was what he gave them to understand pretty plainly , to my great amusement . 
Nothing , I replied carelessly . 
And against other enemies I have this , I added , touching my revolver . 
A brave speech , just after that araguato episode but I did not make it without blushing mentally . 
He shook his head , and said it was a poor weapon against some enemies also truly enough that it would procure no birds and monkeys for the stew pot . 
The previous day's experience had made me think that it would be better in the future to go there alone . 
But I was giving the poor youth more credit than he deserved it was far from his intention to face the terrible unknown again . 
We went in a different direction , and tramped for hours through woods where birds were scarce and only of the smaller kinds . 
Then my guide surprised me a second time by offering to teach me to use the zabatana . 
Kua ko was constantly at my elbow to assist and give advice and many an arrow I blew from the long tube , and hit no bird . 
The number of darts I wasted must have been a rather serious loss to him , but he did not seem troubled at it , and made no remark . 
Next day , to my surprise , he volunteered to give me a second lesson , and we went out again . 
I believe that on this day I made some little progress at all events , my teacher remarked that before long I would be able to hit a bird . 
This made me smile and answer that if he could place me within twenty yards of a bird not smaller than a small man I might manage to touch it with an arrow . 
This speech had a very unexpected and remarkable effect . 
Still , at intervals he would go back to what I had said about hitting a very big bird , and roar again , as if this wonderful joke was not easily exhausted . 
Through the leaves , to the height of a foot or more above them , a slender dead stem protruded , and from a twig at its summit depended a broken spider's web . 
The moving shadow had attracted it and , as the sequel showed , was mistaken for a fly running about over the leaves and flitting from leaf to leaf . 
I became deeply interested in this curious scene I began to wish that the shadow would remain quiet for a moment or two , so as to give the hunter a chance . 
I started up and looked hastily around , but no living creature was there . 
The mass of loose foliage I stared into was agitated , as if from a body having just pushed through it . 
In a moment the leaves and fronds were motionless again still , I could not be sure that a slight gust of wind had not shaken them . 
I was not afraid of losing myself the sun above and my sense of direction , which was always good , would enable me to return to the starting point . 
But it startled me nevertheless bird like warbling sounds had come to mean so much to me and pausing , I listened intently . 
Something else was there , which I did see instantly my cautious advance was arrested . 
I stood gazing with concentrated vision , scarcely daring to breathe lest I should scare it away . 
It was a human being a girl form , reclining on the moss among the ferns and herbage , near the roots of a small tree . 
From my position it was impossible to see her distinctly , yet I dared not move . 
I could make out that she was small , not above four feet six or seven inches in height , in figure slim , with delicately shaped little hands and feet . 
Her hair was very wonderful it was loose and abundant , and seemed wavy or curly , falling in a cloud on her shoulders and arms . 
Dark it appeared , but the precise tint was indeterminable , as was that of her skin , which looked neither brown nor white . 
For I was now convinced that in this wild solitary girl I had at length discovered the mysterious warbler that so often followed me in the wood . 
At length , seeing that it was growing late , I took a drink from the stream and slowly and reluctantly made my way out of the forest and went home . 
So soon ! thought I , elated , and with cautious steps I proceeded to explore the ground , hoping again to catch her unawares . 
Nothing more was heard at this spot , but an hour later , in another place , the same mysterious note sounded near me . 
During my remaining time in the forest I was served many times in the same way , and still nothing was seen , nor was there any change in the voice . 
Only when the day was near its end did I give up my quest , feeling very keenly disappointed . 
In the end I was vexed , and resolved to be even with her by not visiting the wood for some time . 
A display of indifference on my part would , I hoped , result in making her less coy in the future . 
The fruit , however , proved still green , so that we gathered none and killed few birds . 
Soon you will be able to hit , he said hit a bird as big as a small woman and he laughed once more immoderately at the old joke . 
At last , growing confidential , he said that I would soon possess a zabatana of my own , with arrows in plenty . 
He was going to make the arrows himself , and his uncle Otawinki , who had a straight eye , would make the tube . 
I treated it all as a joke , but he solemnly assured me that he meant it . 
By and by he returned to the same subject he could not understand why I would not go to that wood , and asked me if I had begun to grow afraid . 
No , not afraid , I replied but I know the place well , and am getting tired of it . 
I had seen everything in it birds and beasts and had heard all its strange noises . 
Yes , heard , he said , nodding his head knowingly but you have seen nothing strange your eyes are not good enough yet . 
He was a great deal too considerate , I said , and , with all the gravity I could command , asked him what kind of torture he would recommend . 
For me so valorous a person no torture , he answered magnanimously . 
But he Kua ko had made up his mind as to the form of torture he meant to inflict some day on his own person . 
He would prepare a large sack and into it put fire ants As many as that ! he exclaimed triumphantly , stooping and filling his two hands with loose sand . 
The poor youth had not an original mind , since this was one of the commonest forms of self torture among the Guayana tribes . 
But the sudden wonderful animation with which he spoke of it , the fiendish joy that illumined his usually stolid countenance , sent a sudden disgust and horror through me . 
I asked him to explain his meaning for it now began to appear plain that in everything he had said he had been leading up to some very important matter . 
It would , of course , have been a great mistake to suppose that my savage was offering me a blow pipe and a marketable virgin sister from purely disinterested motives . 
In reply he went back to that still unforgotten joke about my being able eventually to hit a bird as big as a small woman with an arrow . 
I could only grind my teeth and struggle to overcome an almost overpowering hatred and wrath . 
He continued gazing at me mute with astonishment , and prudence suggested that it would be best to conceal as far as possible the violent animosity I had conceived against him . 
I asked him somewhat scornfully if he believed that I should ever be able to hit anything bird or human being with an arrow . 
Accordingly , next day , after the heavy rain that fell during the morning hours had ceased , I set forth about noon to visit the wood . 
My mind was , however , now too greatly excited at the prospect of a possible encounter with the forest nymph to allow me to pay any heed to these ominous signs . 
I had passed through the first strip of wood and was in the succeeding stony sterile space when a gleam of brilliant colour close by on the ground caught my sight . 
It was a snake lying on the bare earth had I kept on without noticing it , I should most probably have trodden upon or dangerously near it . 
Viewing it closely , I found that it was a coral snake , famed as much for its beauty and singularity as for its deadly character . 
The symmetrical pattern and vividly contrasted colours would have given it the appearance of an artificial snake made by some fanciful artist , but for the gleam of life in its bright coils . 
Its fixed eyes , too , were living gems , and from the point of its dangerous arrowy head the glistening tongue flickered ceaselessly as I stood a few yards away regarding it . 
This roused the creature's anger , and in a moment with raised head he was gliding swiftly towards me . 
The cause of this sudden wonderful boldness , so unlike her former habit , was unmistakable . 
Do not fear , I shall not harm it , I said in the Indian tongue . 
She took no notice of my speech and continued speaking with increasing resentment . 
I shook my head , replying that her language was unknown to me . 
Then by means of signs I tried to make her understand that the creature was safe from further molestation . 
She pointed indignantly at the stone in my hand , which I had forgotten all about . 
At once I threw it from me , and instantly there was a change the resentment had vanished , and a tender radiance lit her face like a smile . 
Her figure and features were singularly delicate , but it was her colour that struck me most , which indeed made her differ from all other human beings . 
But that part of her skin that remained in shadow appeared of a dimmer white , and the underlying colour varied from dim , rosy purple to dim blue . 
With the skin the colour of the eyes harmonized perfectly . 
At first , when lit with anger , they had appeared flame like now the iris was of a peculiar soft or dim and tender red , a shade sometimes seen in flowers . 
She was a wild , solitary girl of the woods , and did not understand the language of the country in which I had addressed her . 
This union in her of two opposite qualities , which , with us , cannot or do not exist together , although so novel , yet struck me as the girl's principal charm . 
But she stirred not when I released her her eyes followed my movements then she glanced down at her feet . 
In a few moments I began to realize the horror of my position . 
Must I die ! must I die ! Oh , my God , is there nothing that can save me ? I cried in my heart . 
That sudden twilight and a long roll of approaching thunder , reverberating from the hills , increased my anguish and desperation . 
Death at that moment looked unutterably terrible . 
With uncertain steps I moved to a stone a yard or two away and sat down upon it . 
As I did so the hope came to me that this girl , so intimate with nature , might know of some antidote to save me . 
Touching my leg , and using other signs , I addressed her again in the Indian language . 
The snake has bitten me , I said . 
What shall I do ? Is there no leaf , no root you know that would save me from death ? Help me ! help me ! I cried in despair . 
Alas ! It was vain to appeal to her she knew what had happened , and what the result would most likely be , and pitied , but was powerless to help me . 
Then it occurred to me that if I could reach the Indian village before the venom overpowered me something might be done to save me . 
With a cry of anguish I started to my feet and was about to rush away towards the village when a dazzling flash of lightning made me pause for a moment . 
Good bye for ever ! I murmured , and turning once more from her , rushed away like one crazed into the wood . 
I stood still , perplexed , but could not shake off the conviction that I had started in the right direction . 
Eventually I resolved to keep on for a hundred yards or so and then , if no opening appeared , to turn back and retrace my steps . 
But this was no easy matter . 
I soon became entangled in a dense undergrowth , which so confused me that at last I confessed despairingly to myself that for the first time in this wood I was hopelessly lost . 
Trudging on to the summit of the slope , I saw that there was open savannah country beyond , and for a moment rejoiced that I had got free from the forest . 
A few steps more , and I was standing on the very edge of a bank , a precipice not less than fifty feet deep . 
I had never seen that bank before , and therefore knew that I could not be on the right side of the forest . 
But now my only hope was to get completely away from the trees and then to look for the village , and I began following the bank in search of a descent . 
No break occurred , and presently I was stopped by a dense thicket of bushes . 
Injured , and sore all over , but warm and dry surely dry nor was it lightning that dazzled , but firelight . 
I began to notice things little by little . 
The fire was burning on a clay floor a few feet from where I was lying . 
Before it , on a log of wood , sat or crouched a human figure . 
An old man , with chin on breast and hands clasped before his drawn up knees only a small portion of his forehead and nose visible to me . 
An Indian I took him to be , from his coarse , lank , grey hair and dark brown skin . 
I could hear the storm still raging outside the rush and splash of rain , and , at intervals , the distant growl of thunder . 
That I had not been killed by the venomous tooth , nor the subsequent fearful fall , seemed like a miracle to me . 
He gave a mighty start and , turning , fixed his eyes on me . 
Then I saw that he was not a pure Indian , for although as brown as old leather , he wore a beard and moustache . 
A curious face had this old man , which looked as if youth and age had made it a battling ground . 
In this part of his face youth had held its own , especially in the eyes , which looked young and lively . 
But lower down age had conquered , scribbling his skin all over with wrinkles , while moustache and beard were white as thistledown . 
Aha , the dead man is alive again ! he exclaimed , with a chuckling laugh . 
This in the Indian tongue then in Spanish he added But speak to me in the language you know best , senor for if you are not a Venezuelan call me an owl . 
And you , old man ? said I. Ah , I was right ! Why sir what I am is plainly written on my face . 
And the plant grows slowly , sir it is not an evil weed to come to maturity in a single day . 
And as for other leaves in the forest , I smoke them , yes but there is no comfort to the lungs in such smoke . 
My tobacco pouch was full , I said . 
You will find it in my coat , if I did not lose it . 
The saints forbid ! he exclaimed . 
Grandchild Rima , have you got a tobacco pouch with the other things ? Give it to me . 
She had my leather belt , with the revolver in its case , and my hunting knife attached , and the few articles I had had in my pockets , on her lap . 
Taking up the pouch , she handed it to him , and he clutched it with a strange eagerness . 
I will give it back presently , Rima , he said . 
Let me first smoke a cigarette and then another . 
It seemed probable from this that the good old man had already been casting covetous eyes on my property , and that his granddaughter had taken care of it for me . 
His face softened visibly , he became more and more genial and loquacious , and asked me how I came to be in that solitary place . 
I told him that I was staying with the Indian Runi , his neighbour . 
Love them , sir ! They are infidels , and therefore the good Christian must only hate them . 
They are thieves they will steal from you before your very face , so devoid are they of all shame . 
But they are all arrant cowards , and fear to approach me fear even to come into this wood . 
Why , sir , would you believe it ? They fear this child my granddaughter , seated there before you . 
Why , sir , it is due to her tender heart that you are safely sheltered here , instead of being left out of doors in this tempestuous night . 
To her to this girl ? I returned in astonishment . 
Explain , old man , for I do not know how I was saved . 
Today , senor , through your own heedlessness you were bitten by a venomous snake . 
Yes , that is true , although I do not know how it came to your knowledge . 
But why am I not a dead man , then have you done something to save me from the effects of the poison ? Nothing . 
What could I do so long after you were bitten ? When a man is bitten by a snake in a solitary place he is in God's hands . 
He will live or die as God wills . 
There is nothing to be done . 
But not this girl surely not this girl ! No other , said he , carefully rolling up another cigarette . 
It is not possible ! I returned . 
III would you have fared , sir , had she not been there . 
For after being bitten , you rushed away into the thickest part of the wood , and went about in a circle like a demented person for Heaven knows how long . 
But she never left you she was always close to you you might have touched her with your hand . 
Fortunately the spot where you had fallen is near not five hundred yards from the door . 
It was not an easy task , for you weigh , senor but between us we brought you in . 
While he spoke , the girl continued sitting in the same listless attitude as when I first observed her , with eyes cast down and hands folded in her lap . 
Rime that is your name , is it not ? I said . 
Will you come here and stand before me , and let me look closely at you ? Si , senor . 
The face also showed the same delicate lines , but of the brilliant animation and variable colour and expression there appeared no trace . 
Thank you , Rima oh , misery ! I groaned . 
Is there a bone left unbroken in my poor body ? Nothing broken , cried the old man , clouds of smoke flying out with his words . 
I have examined you well legs , arms , ribs . 
For this is how it was , senor . 
A thorny bush into which you fell saved you from being flattened on the stony ground . 
But you are bruised , sir , black with bruises and there are more scratches of thorns on your skin than letters on a written page . 
A long thorn might have entered my brain , I said , from the way it pains . 
Feel my forehead , Rima is it very hot and dry ? She did as I asked , touching me lightly with her little cool hand . 
No , senor , not hot , but warm and moist , she said . 
Thank Heaven for that ! I said . 
And it was you I saw in the wood one day , lying on the ground playing with a small bird ? Yes , senor . 
And it was you that followed me so often among the trees , calling to me , yet always hiding so that I could never see you ? Yes , senor . 
Oh , this is wonderful ! I exclaimed whereat the old man chuckled again . 
But tell me this , my sweet girl , I continued . 
Senor , said the old man , that is a question which you must excuse my child from answering . 
Not , sir , from want of will , for she is docile and obedient , though I say it , but there is no answer beyond what I can tell you . 
Very well , old man , said I to myself there let the matter rest for the present . 
But if I am destined to live and not die , I shall not long remain satisfied with your too simple explanation . 
Rima , I said , you must be fatigued it is thoughtless of me to keep you standing here so long . 
Her face brightened a little , and bending down , she replied in a low voice I am not fatigued , sir . 
Let me get you something to eat now . 
Heaven knows how many he had smoked by this time . 
He became very talkative and called to his side his two dogs , which I had not noticed in the room before , for me to see . 
It amused me to hear their names Susio and Goloso Dirty and Greedy . 
My old host , whose name was Nuflo , went off with his dogs , leaving the girl to attend to my wants . 
My curiosity was more excited than ever , and I resolved to get to the bottom of the mystery of her life . 
The girl had not shown herself responsive , but now that Nuflo was back I was treated to as much talk as I cared to hear . 
These things , senor , he said , are not properly managed . 
Here am I compelled for my sins to inhabit this wilderness with my poor granddaughter She is not your granddaughter ! I suddenly interrupted , thinking to surprise him into an admission . 
But he took his time to answer . 
Senor , we are never sure of anything in this world . 
And yet , sir , in this world , you will never know to a certainty that he is your son . 
Proceed with what you were saying , I returned , with some dignity . 
Here we are , he continued , compelled to inhabit this land and do not meet with proper protection from the infidel . 
And what , senor , is at the bottom of it ? Favoritism . 
And it is manifest that for this country of Guayana the proper person has not been appointed . 
Every evil is done and there is no remedy , and the Christian has no more consideration shown him than the infidel . 
Into this monster he was thrusting his spear . 
That is the kind of person that should be sent to rule these latitudes a person of firmness and resolution , with strength in his wrist . 
And yet it is probable that this very man this St . 
His views also amused me , although they were not novel . 
But the hope proved vain not a word to enlighten me would he drop , however cunningly I tempted him . 
So be it , thought I but if you are cunning , old man , I shall be cunning too and patient for all things come to him who waits . 
He was in no hurry to get rid of me . 
On the contrary , he more than hinted that I would be safer under his roof than with the Indians , at the same time apologizing for not giving me meat to eat . 
But why do you not have meat ? Never have I seen animals so abundant and tame as in this wood . 
For us , senor , every day is fast day only without the fish . 
We have maize , pumpkin , cassava , potatoes , and these suffice . 
And I , sir , loving her as I do , whatever my inclination may be , shed no blood and eat no flesh . 
I looked at him with an incredulous smile . 
And your dogs , old man ? My dogs ? Sir , they would not pause or turn aside if a coatimundi crossed their path an animal with a strong odour . 
As a man is , so is his dog . 
I could not very well tell the old man that he was lying to me that would have been bad policy and so I passed it off . 
I have no doubt that you are right , I said . 
I have heard that there are dogs in China that eat no meat , but are themselves eaten by their owners after being fattened on rice . 
I should not care to dine on one of your animals , old man . 
He looked at them critically and replied Certainly they are lean . 
I was thinking less of their leanness than of their smell , I returned . 
It is not like the fragrance of cattle when they return from the pasture . 
Every animal , he replied , gives out that odour which is peculiar to its kind an incontrovertible fact which left me nothing to say . 
She was once more the tantalizing , elusive , mysterious creature I had first known through her wandering , melodious voice . 
The only difference was that the musical , inarticulate sounds were now less often heard , and that she was no longer afraid to show herself to me . 
For she always wanted to lead me on and on , and whenever I paused she would return to show herself , or to chide or encourage me in her mysterious language . 
Meanwhile she came and went and came again and at last , finding that I was not to be moved , she approached and stood near me . 
Her face , when I glanced at it , had a somewhat troubled look both troubled and curious . 
Come here , Rima , I said , and stay with me for a little while I cannot follow you now . 
She took one or two hesitating steps , then stood still again and at length , slowly and reluctantly , advanced to within a yard of me . 
Then I rose from my seat on the root , so as to catch her face better , and placed my hand against the rough bark of the tree . 
Rime , you have not answered me , I persisted . 
Will you not say yes ? Yes . 
Where does your grandfather spend his day when he goes out with his dogs ? She shook her head slightly , but would not speak . 
Have you no mother , Rima ? Do you remember your mother ? My mother ! My mother ! she exclaimed in a low voice , but with a sudden , wonderful animation . 
Bending a little nearer , she continued Oh , she is dead ! Her body is in the earth and turned to dust . 
Like that , and she moved the loose sand with her foot . 
Her soul is up there , where the stars and the angels are , grandfather says . 
But what is that to me ? I am here am I not ? I talk to her just the same . 
Everything I see I point out , and tell her everything . 
In the daytime in the woods , when we are together . 
Ah , poor Rima ! she is dead and cannot speak to you cannot hear you ! Talk to me , Rima I am living and can answer . 
Silent still ? I said . 
Talk to me , then , of your mother , Rima . 
Do you know that you will see her again some day ? Yes , when I die . 
That is what the priest said . 
Everything have I told you , she returned , surprised that I did not know that she had exhausted the subject in those half dozen words she had spoken . 
You know ! flashed out her answer , with something like resentment . 
It is all there in there , waving her hand towards the hut . 
Thus she illustrated how all the matters she had been taught slipped from her mind when she was out of doors , out of sight of the picture . 
After an interval she added Only mother is here always with me . 
Oh , you are not like him , she suddenly replied . 
Sitting all day on a log by the fire all day , all day Goloso and Susio lying beside him sleep , sleep . 
Oh , when I saw you in the wood I followed you , and talked and talked still no answer . 
To me they would always be inarticulate sounds , affecting me like a tender spiritual music a language without words , suggesting more than words to the soul . 
But look into my eyes , and you will see me there all , all that is in my heart . 
Oh , I know what I should see there ! she returned quickly . 
There is a pool in the wood , and I look down and see myself there . 
Just as large as I am not small and black like a small , small fly . 
Far up , high as the tops of the tallest trees , a great blue winged butterfly was passing across the open space with loitering flight . 
At this spot she all at once vanished from my side and after listening and watching some time in vain , I sat down beside the giant trunk to wait for her . 
Very soon I heard a low , warbling sound which seemed quite near . 
Rime ! Rima ! I called , and instantly my call was repeated like an echo . 
Again and again I called , and still the words flew back to me , and I could not decide whether it was an echo or not . 
Then I gave up calling and presently the low , warbling sound was repeated , and I knew that Rima was somewhere near me . 
Rime , where are you ? I called . 
Rime , where are you ? came the answer . 
You are behind the tree . 
You are behind the tree . 
I shall catch you , Rima . 
And this time , instead of repeating my words , she answered Oh no . 
I jumped up and ran round the tree , feeling sure that I should find her . 
Rime , Rima ! sounded the mocking voice as soon as I had sat down . 
Where are you , Rima ? I shall catch you , Rima ! Have you caught Rima ? No , I have not caught her . 
There is no Rima now . 
She has faded away like a rainbow like a drop of dew in the sun . 
I have lost her I shall go to sleep . 
And stretching myself out at full length under the tree , I remained quiet for two or three minutes . 
Then a slight rustling sound was heard , and I looked eagerly round for her . 
But the sound was overhead and caused by a great avalanche of leaves which began to descend on me from that vast leafy canopy above . 
Her face had a bright , pleased expression , and showed no trace of fatigue or agitation . 
I caught her hand in mine . 
Do you like me to hold your hand , Rima ? Yes , she replied , with indifference . 
Is it I ? Yes . 
This time as if it was small satisfaction to make acquaintance with this purely physical part of me . 
Having her so close gave me an opportunity of examining that light sheeny garment she wore always in the woods . 
While I was feeling it on her shoulder and looking narrowly at it , she glanced at me with a mocking laugh in her eyes . 
Is it silk ? I asked . 
Then , as she remained silent , I continued Where did you get this dress , Rima ? Did you make it yourself ? Tell me . 
Suddenly she darted out her hand like a flash , making me start at the unexpected motion , and quickly withdrawing it , held up a finger before me . 
From its tip a minute gossamer spider , about twice the bigness of a pin's head , appeared suspended from a fine , scarcely visible line three or four inches long . 
Look ! she exclaimed , with a bright glance at my face . 
The small spider she had captured , anxious to be free , was falling , falling earthward , but could not reach the surface . 
After a few moments she cried Drop down , little spider . 
Her finger's motion ceased , and the minute captive fell , to lose itself on the shaded ground . 
Do you not see ? she said to me , pointing to her shoulder . 
Look into my eyes now and see if I am blind , and if there is nothing in them except an image of Rima like a small , small fly . 
She shook her head and laughed a little mockingly , but made no effort to escape from my arm . 
Then let us make a compact . 
I shall do everything to please you , and you must promise to do everything to please me . 
Little things , Rima none so hard as chasing you round a tree . 
Only to have you stand or sit by me and talk will make me happy . 
And to begin you must call me by my name Abel . 
Is that your name ? Oh , not your real name ! Abel , Abel what is that ? It says nothing . 
I have called you by so many names twenty , thirty and no answer . 
Have you ? But , dearest girl , every person has a name , one name he is called by . 
Your name , for instance , is Rima , is it not ? Rima ! only Rima to you ? In the morning , in the evening . 
now in this place and in a little while where know I ? . 
in the night when you wake and it is dark , dark , and you see me all the same . 
Only Rima oh , how strange ! What else , sweet girl ? Your grandfather Nuflo calls you Rima . 
Nuflo ? She spoke as if putting a question to herself . 
You shall listen when I speak , and do all I say . 
And tell me what to do to please you with your eyes let me look in your eyes that are not blind . 
She turned her face more towards me and with head a little thrown back and inclined to one side , gazing now full into my eyes as I had wished her to do . 
After a few moments she glanced away to the distant trees . 
But I could see into those divine orbs , and knew that she was not looking at any particular object . 
Listen , Rima , I said . 
When I look at you I see them all all and more , a thousand times , for I see Rima herself . 
I hear them all , and more , for I hear Rima . 
I must , after all , get my information from Nuflo , or rest in ignorance . 
My new game of hide and seek with Nuflo instead of with Rima began on the following morning . 
He was cunning so was I. Going out and concealing myself among the bushes , I began to watch the hut . 
That I could elude Rima's keener eyes I doubted but that did not trouble me . 
She was not in harmony with the old man , and would do nothing to defeat my plan . 
For some minutes he smoked , then rose , and after looking cautiously round slipped away among the trees . 
I saw that he was going off in the direction of the low range of rocky hills south of the forest . 
If that is your destination , thought I , old fox , your secrets are safe from me . 
It was still early in the day , and a slight breeze tempered the air and made it cool and pleasant on the hilltop after my exertions . 
My scramble through the wood had fatigued me somewhat , and resolving to spend some hours on that spot , I looked round for a comfortable resting place . 
I soon found a shady spot on the west side of an upright block of stone where I could recline at ease on a bed of lichen . 
When I woke , it was past noon , and the sun was shining directly on me . 
First I saw smoke again through an opening in the trees , then a small rude hut of sticks and palm leaves . 
Approaching cautiously , I peered through a crack and discovered old Nuflo engaged in smoking some meat over a fire , and at the same time grilling some bones on the coals . 
Stealing round , I suddenly presented myself at the opening to his den , when the dogs rose up with a growl and Nuflo instantly leaped to his feet , knife in hand . 
You see , said the old hypocrite , wiping the grease from his moustache , this is what I am compelled to do in order to avoid giving offence . 
My granddaughter is a strange being , sir , as you have perhaps observed That reminds me , I interrupted , that I wish you to relate her history to me . 
She is , as you say , strange , and has speech and faculties unlike ours , which shows that she comes of a different race . 
No , no , her faculties are not different from ours . 
They are sharper , that is all . 
It pleases the All Powerful to give more to some than to others . 
Not all the fingers on the hand are alike . 
You will find a man who will take up a guitar and make it speak , while I All that I understand , I broke in again . 
But her origin , her history that is what I wish to hear . 
And that , sir , is precisely what I am about to relate . 
Poor child , she was left on my hands by her sainted mother my daughter , sir who perished young . 
Now , her birthplace , where she was taught letters and the Catechism by the priest , was in an unhealthy situation . 
It was hot and wet always wet a place suited to frogs rather than to human beings . 
At length , thinking that it would suit the child better for she was pale and weakly to live in a drier atmosphere among mountains , I brought her to this district . 
For , after all , it is to the authorities above , in spite of some blots which we see in their administration , that we must look for justice . 
Frankly , sir , this is the whole story of my granddaughter's origin . 
Doubtless you are right , said the old dissembler . 
You treat her friends badly , said I , kicking the long tail of the coatimundi away with my foot , and regretting that I had joined in his repast . 
Senor , you must consider that we are only what Heaven made us . 
But we have not their delicate appetites . 
The more robust stomach which he gave to man cries out for meat . 
Do you understand ? But of all this , friend , not one word to Rima ! I laughed scornfully . 
But , sir , if you will pardon my presumption , you are saying too much . 
She does not come here , and therefore cannot see that I eat meat . 
Nor will my dogs chase any animal there . 
That is what I meant when I said that if an animal should stumble against their legs , they would lift up their noses and pass on without seeing it . 
For in that wood there is one law , the law that Rima imposes , and outside of it a different law . 
I am glad that you have told me this , I replied . 
He glanced at me in his usual quick , cunning way . 
By that time the sweet , warm air would have purified me . 
Besides , I did not consider that I had sufficiently punished Rima for her treatment of me . 
She would be anxious for my safety , perhaps even looking for me everywhere in the wood . 
My every action , word , thought , had my feeling for Rima as a motive . 
Why , I began to ask myself , was Rima so much to me ? It was easy to answer that question Because nothing so exquisite had ever been created . 
All the separate and fragmentary beauty and melody and graceful motion found scattered throughout nature were concentrated and harmoniously combined in her . 
And there was , besides , the fascinating mystery surrounding her origin to arouse and keep my interest in her continually active . 
That was the easy answer I returned to the question I had asked myself . 
But I knew that there was another answer a reason more powerful than the first . 
And I could no longer thrust it back , or hide its shining face with the dull , leaden mask of mere intellectual curiosity . 
Great was my surprise on arriving at the village to find no person there . 
Fortunately in this case they had not taken quite everything my hammock was there , also one small pot , some cassava bread , purple potatoes , and a few ears of maize . 
In vain I hunted for my guitar the Indians had taken it to delight their friends by twanging its strings . 
The profound silence began at length to oppress me . 
It was not like the forest , where one has wild birds for company , where their cries , albeit inarticulate , have a meaning and give a charm to solitude . 
Feeling my loneliness too acutely , I began to regret that I had left Rima , then to feel remorse at the secrecy I had practiced . 
It was painful to think of her in this way , of the pain I had doubtless given her by stealing off without a word of warning . 
Springing to the floor , I flung out of the house and went down to the stream . 
It was better there , for now the greatest heat of the day was over , and the weltering sun began to look large and red and rayless through the afternoon haze . 
The position was this for some days the idea had been present in my mind , and was now fixed there , that this desert was to be my permanent home . 
The thought of going back to Caracas , that little Paris in America , with its Old World vices , its idle political passions , its empty round of gaieties , was unendurable . 
I deceived myself , you will say , as I have often myself said . 
I had and I had not . 
Friends and relations I had who were dear to me but I could forget them , even as I could forget the splendid dreams which had been mine . 
And the woman I had loved , and who perhaps loved me in return I could forget her too . 
A daughter of civilization and of that artificial life , she could never experience such feelings as these and return to nature as I was doing . 
With a sharp cry of amazement and terror she straightened herself up , the bundle of sticks dropping to the ground , and turned to run from me . 
I burst out laughing whereat she twisted her neck until her wrinkled , brown old face appeared over her shoulder staring at me . 
This made me laugh again , whereupon she straightened herself up once more and turned round to have a good look at me . 
Why are you not with the others ? Ah , why ! she returned tragically . 
Slowly she turned round and advanced cautiously towards me , staring at me all the time . 
We thought you were dead , she remarked , still thinking that I might be a ghost after all . 
No , still alive , I said . 
By this time she had recovered from her fear and began to feel highly pleased at my return , only lamenting that she had no meat to give me . 
She was anxious to hear my adventures , and the reason of my long absence . 
I spent an amusing evening with my old savage hostess . 
Each time she got on this topic I cut her short , vowing that if I ever married she only should be my wife . 
But I stuck to it that she was young and beautiful , that our descendants would be more numerous than the birds in the forest . 
I waved my hand in good bye , laughingly reminding her that I was proof against all perils . 
By the time I reached the ridge , I had discovered that she had prophesied truly , for now an ominous change had come over nature . 
Then I set out once more at a run , taking advantage of the downward slope to get well on my way before the tempest should burst . 
No more thunder followed , but the rain was coming down heavily now in huge drops that fell straight through the gloomy , windless air . 
The sun had evidently gone down , and the whole sky was now covered with one thick cloud . 
Becoming more nervous as the gloom increased , I bent my steps more to the south , so as to keep near the border and more open part of the wood . 
Probably I had already grown confused before deviating and turned the wrong way , for instead of finding the forest easier , it grew closer and more difficult as I advanced . 
Before many minutes the darkness so increased that I could no longer distinguish objects more than five feet from my eyes . 
It was then , with that pang in my heart , that I was startled by hearing , close by , one of her own low , warbled expressions . 
There could be no mistake if the forest had been full of the sounds of animal life and songs of melodious birds , her voice would have been instantly distinguished from all others . 
How mysterious , how infinitely tender it sounded in that awful blackness ! so musical and exquisitely modulated , so sorrowful , yet piercing my heart with a sudden , unutterable joy . 
Rime ! Rima ! I cried . 
Is it you ? Come to me here . 
Again that low , warbling sound , or series of sounds , seemingly from a distance of a few yards . 
I knew that she was inviting me to follow her , but I refused to move . 
There came no response , and after some moments , becoming alarmed , I called to her again . 
Then close by me , in a low , trembling voice , she returned I am here . 
She was trembling , and I thought the rain had chilled her . 
I saw you coming across the savannah , and followed at a distance through the wood . 
Then , running my fingers down her arm , I took her hand in mine . 
It was hot , like the hand of one in a fever . 
I raised it to my lips and then attempted to draw her to me , but she slipped down and out of my arms to my feet . 
I felt her there , on her knees , with head bowed low . 
Stooping and putting my arm round her body , I drew her up and held her against my breast , and felt her heart throbbing wildly . 
All at once , as we came to a more open place , a strip of bright firelight appeared before us , shining from the half open door of Nuflo's lodge . 
She turned round as much as to say Now you know where you are , then hurried on , leaving me to follow as best I could . 
The sun had not yet risen , but old Nuflo was already among the ashes , on his hands and knees , blowing the embers he had uncovered to a flame . 
Then Rima appeared only to pass through the room with quick light tread to go out of the door without a word or even a glance at my face . 
The old man , after watching at the door for a few minutes , turned and began eagerly questioning me about my adventures on the previous evening . 
In reply I related to him how the girl had found me in the forest lost and unable to extricate myself from the tangled undergrowth . 
He rubbed his hands on his knees and chuckled . 
Happy for you , senor , he said , that my granddaughter regards you with such friendly eyes , otherwise you might have perished before morning . 
I am filled with remorse that it was all through my fault that the poor child was exposed to such weather . 
O senor , he cried airily , let not that distress you ! Rain and wind and hot suns , from which we seek shelter , do not harm her . 
She takes no cold , and no fever , with or without ague . 
My quest did not succeed not a glimpse of her delicate shadowy form did I catch among the trees and not one note from her melodious lips came to gladden me . 
Shall I thank you for this ? I said . 
I had sat there a full hour when all at once Rima appeared at my side . 
Bending forward , she touched my hand , but without glancing at my face Come with me , she said , and turning , moved swiftly towards the northern extremity of the forest . 
Glancing back for a few moments , she waved a hand towards the summit , and then at once began the ascent . 
Here too it seemed all familiar ground to her . 
At a great distance the circle of the horizon was broken here and there by mountains , but the hills in our neighbourhood were all beneath our feet . 
After gazing all round for some minutes , I jumped down from my stand and , leaning against the stone , stood watching the girl , waiting for her to speak . 
For a while she continued silent , her face averted , but her little movements and the way she clasped and unclasped her fingers showed that she was anxious and her mind working . 
Suddenly , half turning to me , she began speaking eagerly and rapidly . 
Do you see , she said , waving her hand to indicate the whole circuit of earth , how large it is ? Look ! pointing now to mountains in the west . 
Those are the Vahanas one , two , three the highest I can tell you their names Vahana Chara , Chumi , Aranoa . 
Do you see that water ? It is a river , called Guaypero . 
From the hills it comes down , Inaruna is their name , and you can see them there in the south far , far . 
And in this way she went on pointing out and naming all the mountains and rivers within sight . 
Then she suddenly dropped her hands to her sides and continued That is all . 
Because we can see no further . 
But the world is larger than that ! Other mountains , other rivers . 
I did not laugh at her simplicity , nor did I smile or feel any inclination to smile . 
This represents the mountain we are standing on , I continued , touching the pebble and this line encircling it encloses all of the earth we can see from the mountain top . 
Do you understand ? the line I have traced is the blue line of the horizon beyond which we cannot see . 
And outside of this little circle is all the flat top of Ytaioa representing the world . 
Consider , then , how small a portion of the world we can see from this spot ! And do you know it all ? she returned excitedly . 
All the world ? waving her hand to indicate the little stone plain . 
All the mountains , and rivers , and forests all the people in the world ? That would be impossible , Rima consider how large it is . 
Come , let us go together we two and grandfather and see all the world all the mountains and forests , and know all the people . 
You do not know what you are saying , Rima . 
You might as well say 'Come , let us go to the sun and find out everything in it . 
It is you who do not know what you are saying , she retorted , with brightening eyes which for a moment glanced full into mine . 
We have no wings like birds to fly to the sun . 
Am I not able to walk on the earth , and run ? Can I not swim ? Can I not climb every mountain ? No , you cannot . 
You imagine that all the earth is like this little portion you see . 
But it is not all the same . 
Also something , but very little , about the tribes of savage men . 
She heard me with impatience , which made me speak rapidly , in very general terms and to simplify the matter I made the world stand for the continent we were in . 
It seemed idle to go beyond that , and her eagerness would not have allowed it . 
Tell me all you know , she said the moment I ceased speaking . 
What is there and there and there ? pointing in various directions . 
Rivers and forests they are nothing to me . 
The villages , the tribes , the people everywhere tell me , for I must know it all . 
It would take long to tell , Rima . 
Because you are so slow . 
Look how high the sun is ! Speak , speak ! What is there ? pointing to the north . 
Still it would be Guayana rivers , rivers , rivers , with forests between , and other forests and rivers beyond . 
You must know that guayana is only a portion , a half , of our country , Venezuela . 
Look , I continued , putting my hand round my shoulder to touch the middle of my back , there is a groove running down my spine dividing my body into equal parts . 
This seemed to weary her but the moment I ceased speaking , and before I could well moisten my dry lips , she demanded to know what came after Caracas after all Venezuela . 
The ocean water , water , water , I replied . 
Look , Rima , I began , here we are on this small pebble Ytaioa and this line round it shuts us in we cannot see beyond . 
Now let us imagine that we can see beyond that we can see the whole flat mountaintop and that , you know , is the whole world . 
Now listen while I tell you of all the countries , and principal mountains , and rivers , and cities of the world . 
I marked the littoral cities as we progressed on that side , where earth ends and the Pacific Ocean begins , and infinitude . 
I mentioned its principal cities those small inflamed or festering pimples that attract much attention from appearing on such a body . 
But of its sublime history , its kings and conquerors , Haymar Capac the Mighty , and Huascar , and Atahualpa the Unhappy , not one word . 
At the last I showed her Cuzco , the city of the sun , and the highest dwelling place of men on earth . 
And while I spoke of the mountains , she hung on my words , following me closely in my walk , her countenance brilliant . 
her frame quivering with excitement . 
The very thought of the Amazonian forest made my spirit droop . 
And possibly her imagination would have been able to clothe it all with an unbroken forest . 
Her excitement had passed away by now . 
She was standing a little apart from me , her eyes cast down and thoughtful . 
Did I not tell you ? I returned stoutly for I had , of course , sunk the Isthmus of Panama beneath the sea . 
Water ! All round ? she persisted . 
Water , and no beyond ? Only water always water ? I could no longer adhere to so gross a lie . 
She was too intelligent , and I loved her too much . 
Standing up , I pointed to distant mountains and isolated peaks . 
Look at those peaks , I said . 
It is like that with the world this world we are standing on . 
But , Rima , they are so far away , so impossible to reach , that it is useless to speak or to think of them . 
They are to us like the sun and moon and stars , to which we cannot fly . 
And now sit down and rest by my side , for you know everything . 
She glanced at me with troubled eyes . 
Nothing do I know nothing have you told me . 
Did I not say that mountains and rivers and forests are nothing ? Tell me about all the people in the world . 
Look ! there is Cuzco over there , a city like no other in the world did you not tell me so ? Of the people nothing . 
Are they also different from all others in the world ? I will tell you that if you will first answer me one question , Rima . 
She drew a little nearer , curious to hear , but was silent . 
Promise that you will answer me , I persisted , and as she continued silent , I added Shall I not ask you , then ? Say , she murmured . 
Why do you wish to know about the people of Cuzco ? She flashed a look at me , then averted her face . 
For some moments she stood hesitating then , coming closer , touched me on the shoulder and said softly Turn away , do not look at me . 
I can answer that question , Rima , I said . 
Ah , no , poor child , there are none there like you not one , not one . 
She said nothing , and glancing round , I discovered that she was walking away , her fingers clasped before her , her eyes cast down , and looking profoundly dejected . 
Jumping up , I hurried after her . 
Listen ! I said , coming to her side . 
Do you know that there are others in the world like you who would understand your speech ? Oh , do I not ! Yes mother told me . 
But have you asked him ? I persisted . 
Have I not ! Not once not a hundred times . 
Look , she said , now we are standing in Guayana again . 
And over there in Brazil , and up there towards the Cordilleras , it is unknown . 
And there are people there . 
Come , let us go and seek for my mother's people in that place . 
With grandfather , but not the dogs they would frighten the animals and betray us by barking to cruel men who would slay us with poisoned arrows . 
O Rima , can you not understand ? It is too far . 
And your grandfather , poor old man , would die of weariness and hunger and old age in some strange forest . 
Would he die old grandfather ? Then we could cover him up with palm leaves in the forest and leave him . 
It would not be grandfather only his body that must turn to dust . 
He would be away away where the stars are . 
We should not die , but go on , and on , and on . 
To continue the discussion seemed hopeless . 
To the Indians she was only an object of superstitious fear a daughter of the Didi and to them nothing of her origin was known . 
And she , poor girl , had only a vague remembrance of a few words heard in childhood from her mother , and probably not rightly understood . 
While these thoughts had been passing through my mind , Rima had been standing silent by , waiting , perhaps , for an answer to her last words . 
Then stooping , she picked up a small pebble and tossed it three or four yards away . 
Do you see where it fell ? she cried , turning towards me . 
That is on the border of Guayana is it not ? Let us go there first . 
Rime , how you distress me ! We cannot go there . 
It is all a savage wilderness , almost unknown to men a blank on the map The map ? speak no word that I do not understand . 
In a very few words I explained my meaning even fewer would have sufficed , so quick was her apprehension . 
If it is a blank , she returned quickly , then you know of nothing to stop us no river we cannot swim , and no great mountains like those where Quito is . 
But I happen to know , Rima , for it has been related to me by old Indians , that of all places that is the most difficult of access . 
There is a river there , and although it is not on the map , it would prove more impassable to us than the mighty Orinoco and Amazon . 
It has vast malarious swamps on its borders , overgrown with dense forest , teeming with savage and venomous animals , so that even the Indians dare not venture near it . 
Riolama ! Riolama ! she repeated so rapidly and in a tone so sharp that it tingled in the brain . 
No , no , no Riolama . 
When I was a child , and the priest baptized me , he named me Riolama the place where my mother was found . 
But it was long to say , and they called me Rima . 
Traitor ! Traitor ! she cried , still looking homewards and using quick , passionate gestures . 
But it soon struck me that it was getting late , that the sun would be gone in a couple of hours and at once I began the descent . 
It was not accomplished without some bruises and a good many scratches . 
I had covered about half the distance from the foot of the hill to Nuflo's lodge when the sun went down . 
With increasing anxiety I hastened on , when all at once a low growl issuing from the bushes some yards ahead of me brought me to a stop . 
In a moment the dogs , Susio and Goloso , rushed out from some hiding place furiously barking but they quickly recognized me and slunk back again . 
Relieved from fear , I walked on for a short distance then it struck me that the old man must be about somewhere , as the dogs scarcely ever stirred from his side . 
But the fringe did not reach to the ground and under the bush . 
I caught sight of the other dog and after gazing in for some time , I also discovered a black , recumbent form , which I took to be Nuflo . 
What are you doing there , old man ? I cried . 
Where is Rima have you not seen her ? Come out . 
Then he stirred himself , slowly creeping out on all fours and finally , getting free of the dead twigs and leaves , he stood up and faced me . 
Fool , if you did not wish the dogs to feed on your flesh , it would have been better if you had taken your evening walk in some other direction . 
His attack did not seem quite spontaneous . 
In spite of the wildness of his manner and the violence of his speech , he appeared to be acting a part which he had rehearsed beforehand . 
I was only angry , and stepping forward , I dealt him a very sharp rap with my knuckles on his chest . 
Moderate your language , old man , I said remember that you are addressing a superior . 
What do you say to me ? he screamed in a shrill , broken voice , accompanying his words with emphatic gestures . 
An old man to a young one , I returned . 
And in virtue of my youth I am your superior . 
Shoot ! Shoot ! he screeched . 
You are here ! she cried in that quick , ringing tone that was almost painful to the sense . 
Rima ! Rima ! have mercy on me ! he cried out piteously . 
I cannot go to Riolama , it is so far so far . 
And I am old and should meet my death . 
Do you then wish me to die ? he cried . 
Shall you be glad at my death ? Behold , then I shall slay myself before your eyes . 
Rima , incapable of understanding such a thing , took it differently . 
Oh , you are going to kill yourself . 
Oh , wicked man , wait until you know what will happen to you after death . 
All shall now be told to my mother . 
Hear my words , then kill yourself . 
I also heard with the greatest wonder and admiration . 
For she had been shy and reticent with me , and now , as if oblivious of my presence , she was telling aloud the secrets of her inmost heart . 
O mother , mother , listen to me , to Rima , your beloved child ! she began . 
All these years I have been wickedly deceived by grandfather Nuflo the old man that found you . 
Often have I spoken to him of Riolama , where you once were , and your people are , and he denied all knowledge of such a place . 
At other times he affirmed that no such place existed that it was a tale told by the Indians such false things did he say to me to Rima , your child . 
But perhaps you did not listen , or did not hear , for I spoke softly and not as now , on my knees , solemnly . 
And that was most strange , since you had taught me differently but you were living then , at Voa , and now that you are in heaven , perhaps you know better . 
Therefore listen to me now , O mother , and let nothing I say escape you . 
And now , O mother , this is what happened next . 
And beyond where the world ends there is water , water , water . 
Therefore , O mother , listen well and do what I tell you . 
When he has killed himself , and has come into that place where you are , see that he does not escape the punishment he merits . 
Watch well for his coming , for he is full of cunning and deceit , and will endeavor to hide himself from your eyes . 
Rima my child , my child , not that ! he cried out in a voice that was broken with terror . 
It was a pitiable sight , and moving quickly to her side I touched her on the shoulder and asked her to forgive him . 
The response came quickly enough . 
Turning to him once more , she said I forgive you , grandfather . 
And now get up and take me to Riolama . 
He rose , but only to his knees . 
But you have not told her ! he said , recovering his natural voice , although still anxious , and jerking a thumb over his shoulder . 
Consider , my child , that I am old and shall doubtless perish on the way . 
What would become of my soul in such a case ? For now you have told her everything , and it will not be forgotten . 
O mother , listen to me , for I have something fresh to say to you . 
Grandfather has not killed himself , but has asked my forgiveness and has promised to obey me . 
O mother , I have forgiven him , and he will now take me to Riolama , to our people . 
He concluded by affirming that he could not start in less time than seven or eight days . 
For a while I listened with keen interest to this dispute , and at length interposed once more on the old man's side . 
The poor girl in her petition had unwittingly revealed to me the power I possessed , and it was a pleasing experience to exercise it . 
Touching her shoulder again , I assured her that seven or eight days was only a reasonable time in which to prepare for so long a journey . 
She instantly yielded , and after one glance at my face , she moved swiftly away into the darker shadows , leaving me alone with the old man . 
, he added that it was a fine thing to have a friend at court . 
I could not resist the temptation of remarking here that to an unregenerate man the celestial country might turn out a somewhat uncongenial place for a residence . 
Listening to her I was no longer the enlightened , the creedless man . 
Doubtless it was a delusion her mother was not really there above listening to the girl's voice . 
He stopped short to stare at me , and although it was too dark to see his face , I felt his astonishment . 
Senor ! he exclaimed , we cannot go without you . 
But what will Rima say to that ? Very well , I will go , but only on one condition . 
What is it ? he asked , with a sudden change of tone , which warned me that he was becoming cautious again . 
Ah , senor , it is a long story , and sad . 
But you shall hear it all . 
You must hear it , senor , since you are now one of us and when I am no longer here to protect her , then she will be yours . 
But the story would take long to tell . 
You shall hear it all as we journey to Riolama . 
I must hear it before I start . 
But he was determined to reserve the narrative until the journey , and after some further argument I yielded the point . 
CHAPTER XIII That evening by the fire old Nuflo , lately so miserable , now happy in his delusions , was more than usually gay and loquacious . 
He was like a child who by timely submission has escaped a threatened severe punishment . 
From that corner she could see my face , with the firelight full upon it , she herself in shadow , her eyes veiled by their drooping lashes . 
But not from any modern , nor from the poets of the last century , nor even from the greater seventeenth century . 
I am going now to that spot to wait for you . 
I must speak to you again in that place about this journey to Riolama . 
As she kept silent , I added Will you promise to come to me there ? She shook her head , turning half away . 
What do you wish , Rima ? She came nearer still . 
Listen ! You must not look into my eyes , you must not touch me with your hands . 
Sweet Rima , I must hold your hand when I speak with you . 
No , no , no , she murmured , shrinking from me and finding that it must be as she wished , I reluctantly agreed . 
Only now her trouble was different and greater , making her shyer and more reticent . 
Rime , your grandfather is going to take you to Riolama . 
Do you wish me to go with you ? Oh , do you not know that ? she returned , with a swift glance at my face . 
How should I know ? Her eyes wandered away restlessly . 
Tell me , why must you go to Riolama ? You have heard . 
To speak to my people . 
What will you say to them ? Tell me . 
What you do not understand . 
How tell you ? I understand you when you speak in Spanish . 
Oh , that is not speaking . 
Last night you spoke to your mother in Spanish . 
Did you not tell her everything ? Oh no not then . 
When I tell her everything I speak in another way , in a low voice not on my knees and praying . 
At night , and in the woods , and when I am alone I tell her . 
But perhaps she does not hear me she is not here , but up there so far ! She never answers , but when I speak to my people they will answer me . 
Then she turned away as if there was nothing more to be said . 
Is this all I am to hear from you , Rima these few words ? I exclaimed . 
But to you that do not understand , what can I say ? Only that you are not like him and all those that I knew at Voa . 
It is so different and the same . 
You are you , and I am I why is it do you know ? No yes I know , but cannot tell you . 
Why ? Do I not see it there ? she returned , with a quick gesture to indicate that it appeared in my face . 
Your sight is keen , Rima keen as a bird's . 
Mine is not so keen . 
Let me look once more into those beautiful wild eyes , then perhaps I shall see in them as much as you see in mine . 
But the shame was as nothing in strength compared to the impulse I felt to clasp her beautiful body in my arms and cover her face with kisses . 
Sick with desire , I turned away and , sitting on a root of the tree , covered my face with my hands . 
She came nearer I could see her shadow through my fingers then her face and wistful , compassionate eyes . 
Forgive me , dear Rima , I said , dropping my hands again . 
Left alone in the wood , I was not happy . 
I found my Indian friends home again , and was not surprised to observe a distinct change in their manner towards me . 
I had expected as much and considering that they must have known very well where and in whose company I had been spending my time , it was not strange . 
Coming across the savannah that morning I had first begun to think seriously of the risk I was running . 
I affected not to notice the change , and dipped my hand uninvited in the pot to satisfy my hunger , and smoked and dozed away the sultry hours in my hammock . 
I went to my hammock and slept , but without undressing . 
Next morning I missed my revolver and found that the holster containing it had been detached from the belt . 
My knife had not been taken , possibly because it was under me in the hammock while I slept . 
I affected to take it in good part , although feeling secretly ill at ease . 
Subsequent events confirmed me in this suspicion . 
He was in appearance more friendly towards me now , even asking me to repeat my last evening's song , and so we had that performance all over again to everybody's satisfaction . 
Next day the same excuse still I disguised my impatience and suspicion of him and waited , singing the ballad for the third time that evening . 
On the following day I attacked my host once more about the revolver , telling him with well acted indignation that if not found it must be paid for . 
I was going to add a wife , but as I had already been offered one it did not appear to be necessary . 
He seemed a little taken aback at the value I set upon my weapon , and promised to go and look for it again . 
Then I begged that Kua ko , in whose sharpness of sight I had great faith , might accompany us . 
He consented , and named the next day but one for the expedition . 
In spite of anxiety it amused me to see old Cla cla regarding me fixedly with owlish eyes and lips moving . 
My tale had no wonderful things in it , like hers of the olden time , which she told only to send her hearers to sleep . 
Perhaps she had discovered by now that it was the strange honey of melody which made the coarse , common cassava bread of everyday life in my story so pleasant to the palate . 
I was quite prepared to receive a proposal to give her music and singing lessons , and to bequeath a guitar to her in my last will and testament . 
I laughed at his idle tale and , taking up my cloak , swung out of the door , whistling a lively air . 
By following its course the distance to be covered would be considerably increased , but the shorter way would have exposed me to sight and made it more dangerous . 
I had put forth too much speed at first , and in a short time my exertions , and the hot sun , together with my intense excitement , overcame me . 
If my enemies had come on me then disposed to kill me , I could not have lifted a hand in defence of my life . 
But minutes passed and they came not . 
There was a strangely delightful sensation in me . 
And describing what I felt in that way , I was a little ashamed and laughed at myself nevertheless the feeling was very sweet . 
At that moment Mother and Nature seemed one and the same thing . 
I envied them not their wings at that moment earth did not seem fixed and solid beneath me , nor I bound by gravity to it . 
The faint , floating clouds , the blue infinite heaven itself , seemed not more ethereal and free than I , or the ground I walked on . 
The red evening flame had vanished from the summits of the trees , the sun was setting , the woods in shadow , when I got to the end of my walk . 
But as I drew near , the girl dropped behind and stood motionless regarding me , her face pallid and showing strong excitement . 
I could scarcely remove my eyes from her eloquent countenance I seemed to read in it relief and gladness mingled with surprise and something like vexation . 
She was piqued perhaps that I had taken her by surprise , that after much watching for me in the wood I had come through it undetected when she was indoors . 
Happy the eyes that see you ! shouted the old man , laughing boisterously . 
Happy are mine that look on Rima again , I answered . 
I have been long absent . 
Long you may say so , returned Nuflo . 
We had given you up . 
We said that , alarmed at the thought of the journey to Riolama , you had abandoned us . 
WE said ! exclaimed Rima , her pallid face suddenly flushing . 
Yes , I know I know ! he said airily , waving his hand . 
You said that he was in danger , that he was kept against his will from coming . 
He is present now let him speak . 
She was right , I said . 
Ah , Nuflo , old man , you have lived long , and got much experience , but not insight not that inner vision that sees further than the eyes . 
No , not that I know what you mean , he answered . 
Then , tossing his hand towards the sky , he added The knowledge you speak of comes from there . 
The girl had been listening with keen interest , glancing from one to the other . 
What ! she spoke suddenly . 
Then , pointing to me with her finger , she finished HE knows so many things ! Who tells them to HIM ? But distinguish , Rima . 
You do not distinguish the great from the little , he answered loftily . 
WE know a thousand things , but they are things that any man with a forehead can learn . 
The knowledge that comes from the blue is not like that it is more important and miraculous . 
Is it not so , senor ? he ended , appealing to me . 
Is it , then , left for me to decide ? said I , addressing the girl . 
But though her face was towards me , she refused to meet my look and was silent . 
Silent , but not satisfied she doubted still , and had perhaps caught something in my tone that strengthened her doubt . 
Old Nuflo understood the expression . 
Look at me , Rima , he said , drawing himself up . 
I am old , and he is young do I not know best ? I have spoken and have decided it . 
Still that unconvinced expression , and her face turned expectant to me . 
Am I to decide ? I repeated . 
The religion and cotton dress were evidently remains of her early training at the settlement of Voa . 
Old Nuflo , strange to say , had proved better than his word . 
You seem to think little of it , I said , observing that he took it very coolly . 
Yet I know not how I shall defend myself in case of an attack . 
I have no fear of an attack , he answered . 
It seems to me the same thing whether you have a revolver or many revolvers and carbines and swords , or no revolver no weapon at all . 
And for a very simple reason . 
While Rima is with us , so long as we are on her business , we are protected from above . 
The angels , senor , will watch over us by day and night . 
That is a small and low thing , a necessity common to all creatures , which all know how to meet . 
You would not expect an angel to drive away a cloud of mosquitoes , or to remove a bush tick from your person . 
It is wrong , senor , and , pardon me for saying it , it ill becomes you to put such fables into her head . 
I answered , with a smile She herself seems to doubt what you believe . 
But , senor , what can you expect from an ignorant girl like Rima ? She knows nothing , or very little , and will not listen to reason . 
Yes , many times , senor , he said . 
I should have been a poor Christian had I not mentioned it . 
CHAPTER XV The next day we were early at work . 
Nuflo had already gathered , dried , and conveyed to a place of concealment the greater portion of his garden produce . 
He was determined to leave nothing to be taken by any wandering party of savages that might call at the house during our absence . 
He had no fear of a visit from his neighbours they would not know , he said , that he and Rima were out of the wood . 
A few large earthen pots , filled with shelled maize , beans , and sun dried strips of pumpkin , still remained to be disposed of . 
Taking up one of these vessels and asking me to follow with another , he started off through the wood . 
We went a distance of five or six hundred yards , then made our way down a very steep incline , close to the border of the forest on the western side . 
And here was his nest , his most secret treasure house , . 
which he had probably not revealed even to me without a sharp inward conflict , notwithstanding that our fates were now linked together . 
Here , besides the food stuff , he had already stored a quantity of dried tobacco leaf , his rude weapons , cooking utensils , ropes , mats , and other objects . 
This was his load the other sack , which was smaller and contained parched corn and raw beans , was for me to carry . 
The old man , cautious in all his movements , always acting as if surrounded by invisible spies , delayed setting out until an hour after dark . 
The one compensation I had looked for , which would have outweighed all the extreme discomforts we suffered , was denied me . 
Rima kept us company in some such wild erratic way as that . 
A word , a sign from Nuflo was enough for her to know the direction to take the distant forest or still more distant mountain near which we should have to pass . 
Only on one occasion , two days after setting out , were we compelled to speak with strangers . 
After parting from them Nuflo was much troubled in his mind for the rest of that day . 
Other incidents of our long and wearisome journey need not be related . 
But according to his own account he was not in harmony with them . 
This difference of disposition made him morose and quarrelsome with his companions and they would , he said , have murdered him without remorse if he had not been so useful to them . 
But while thus anxious about his spiritual interests , he was not yet prepared to break with his companions . 
The infidels , he said , were God's natural enemies and fair game to the Christian . 
To make a long story short , Nuflo's Christian band , after some successful adventures , met with a reverse which reduced their number from nine to five . 
For , said Nuflo , a picture is a picture , and the other was a reality , which is finer . 
But at this moment his comrades , recovering from their astonishment , sprang to their feet , and the heavenly woman vanished . 
Accordingly he rose and began cautiously and slowly climbing down over the broken jagged rocks and through a dense mass of thorny bushes and creepers . 
She now gazed on her visitor in silent consternation while he , casting himself prostrate on the ground , implored her forgiveness and begged to know her will . 
That night he spent keeping watch over her , at intervals applying fresh wet leaves to her foot as the old ones became dry and wilted from the heat of the inflammation . 
She appeared to understand him , and allowed herself to be taken up in his arms and carried with much labour to the top of the chasm . 
In the cave he made her a second couch , and tended her assiduously . 
He made a fire on the floor and kept it burning night and day , and supplied her with water to drink and fresh leaves for her foot . 
There was little more that he could do . 
From the choicest and fattest bits of toasted tapir flesh he offered her she turned away with disgust . 
A little cassava bread soaked in water she would take , but seemed not to like it . 
Nuflo at first feared that she would now leave him , but before long he became convinced that she had no such intentions . 
And yet she was profoundly unhappy . 
He was accustomed to see her seated on a rock , as if brooding over some secret grief , her head bowed , and great tears falling from half closed eyes . 
But for several days , as they slowly journeyed over the plain , she would pause at intervals in her limping walk to gaze back on those blue summits , shedding abundant tears . 
Great was the astonishment and curiosity of the people of Voa when , after many weeks' travelling , Nuflo arrived at last with his companion . 
But he was not going to tell the truth , nor even the least particle of the truth , to a gaping crowd of inferior persons . 
But from the presence of others she shrank , as if in disgust or fear , excepting only Nuflo and the priest , whose kindly intentions she appeared to understand and appreciate . 
So far her life in the village was silent and sorrowful . 
To the mother death came slowly , but at last it seemed so near that Nuflo and the priest were together at her side waiting to see the end . 
Once more Nuflo became a wanderer , now with the fragile looking little Rima for companion , the sacred child who had inherited the position of his intercessor from a sacred mother . 
At Parahuari , where they arrived safely at last , they lived for some little time at one of the villages . 
The Indians , however , continued friendly with him and visited him with frequency . 
But when Rima grew up , developing into that mysterious woodland girl I found her , they became suspicious , and in the end regarded her with dangerously hostile feeling . 
The couples did not keep together , but moved about or remained concealed at a distance of forty or fifty yards apart , lest she should be missed . 
He ran some distance with the fatal barbed point in his flesh and met his comrade , who had mistaken him for the girl and shot him . 
He had seen it all with his own eyes , and his friend who had accidentally slain him believed his story and repeated it to the others . 
CHAPTER XVI We were eighteen days travelling to Riolama , on the last two making little progress , on account of continuous rain , which made us miserable beyond description . 
Fortunately the dogs had found , and Nuflo had succeeded in killing , a great ant eater , so that we were well supplied with excellent , strength giving flesh . 
We were among the Riolama mountains at last , and Rima kept with us , apparently expecting great things . 
I expected nothing , for reasons to be stated by and by . 
My belief was that the only important thing that could happen to us would be starvation . 
At length , when we were nearly under the peak , he began to ascend . 
Along the border of this ravine Nuflo began toiling upwards , and finally brought us out upon a stony plateau on the mountain side . 
I heard him with indifference . 
I had already recognized the place from his own exact description of it , and I now saw all that I had looked to see a big , barren hill . 
But Rima , what had she expected that her face wore that blank look of surprise and pain ? Is this the place where mother appeared to you ? she suddenly cried . 
The next thing was to make a torch , and aided by its light we groped our way in and explored the interior . 
Leaving our torch burning , we set to work cutting bushes to supply ourselves with wood enough to last us all night . 
were to him the greatest blessings that man could wish for . 
In me also the prospect of a cheerful blaze put a new heart , and I worked with a will in the rain , which increased in the end to a blinding downpour . 
By the time I dragged my last load in , Nuflo had got his fire well alight , and was heaping on wood in a most lavish way . 
No fear of burning our house down tonight , he remarked , with a chuckle the first sound of that description he had emitted for a long time . 
The old man appeared to be asleep , although still in a sitting posture close to the fire . 
It was a welcome change , but the shock of surprise and pleasure was instantly succeeded by the maddening fear that Rima was lost to me . 
I quickly made my way to her side , calling to her as I approached but she only half turned to cast a look at me and did not reply . 
Why should I wait ? Perhaps from the summit I shall see my people's country . 
Are we not near it now ? Oh , Rima , what do you expect to see ? Listen you must listen , for I know best . 
She turned to face me with flashing eyes . 
You know best ! she exclaimed . 
You know best and tell me that ! Never until this moment have you spoken falsely . 
But it is not he that speaks to me not one that showed me the whole world on Ytaioa . 
Rima , I cried , you are cruelly unjust to say such words to me . 
If you know that I have never deceived you before , give me a little credit now . 
You are no delusion no mirage , but Rima , like no other being on earth . 
As she listened to my words , spoken with passion , she grew pale and clasped her hands . 
But before I could take her in my arms she rose again quickly to her feet and moved away a little space from me . 
Oh no , no , it cannot be that you know best ! she began again . 
But I know that you have never sought to deceive me . 
And now , because I falsely accused you , I cannot go there without you pointing to the summit but must stand still and listen to all you have to say . 
He spoke truthfully at last , and brought us to this place , beyond which he cannot lead you . 
You are right I must go alone . 
Consider , Rima , he could not refuse , to make you more angry and so deprive himself of his only hope . 
My words seemed to trouble her , but very soon she spoke again with renewed animation . 
Come , let us go to the summit together to see from it the desert beneath us mountain and forest , mountain and forest . 
Somewhere there ! You said that I had knowledge of distant things . 
For a while she was silent , but her eyes and clasping fingers were restless and showed her agitation . 
She seemed to be searching in the depths of her mind for some argument to oppose to my assertions . 
Where you are , there I must be you have said it yourself . 
Besides , when we started I had some hope of finding your people . 
Now I know better , having heard Nuflo's story . 
Now I know that your hope is a vain one . 
Why ? Why ? Was she not found here mother ? Where , then , are the others ? Yes , she was found here , alone . 
You must remember all the things she spoke to you before she died . 
It is very sad so sad that it is hard to tell it . 
But she knew that she had survived them , that some great calamity had fallen upon and destroyed them . 
They were few in number , perhaps , and surrounded on every side by hostile tribes , and had no weapons , and made no war . 
CHAPTER XVII As I re entered the cave with my burden Nuflo sat up and stared at me with a frightened look in his eyes . 
Throwing my cloak down , I placed the girl on it and briefly related what had happened . 
He drew near to examine her then placed his hand on her heart . 
Dead ! she is dead ! he exclaimed . 
My own anxiety changed to an irrational anger at his words . 
Old fool ! She has only fainted , I returned . 
Get me some water , quick . 
But the water failed to restore her , and my anxiety deepened as I gazed on that white , still face . 
The old man , still bending over her , spoke again . 
No , I will not believe that she is dead yet but , sir , if not dead , then she is dying . 
I could have struck him down for his words . 
She will die in my arms , then , I exclaimed , thrusting him roughly aside , and lifting her up with the cloak beneath her . 
Rima ! Grandchild ! he prayed , his quivering voice betraying his agitation . 
Do not die just yet you must not die not wholly die until you have heard what I have to say to you . 
I do not ask you to answer in words you are past that , and I am not unreasonable . 
And do not cast in oblivion that at the last I obeyed your wish and brought you safely to Riolama . 
In your hands , Rima , I leave everything , relying on the promise you made me , and on my services . 
Only one word of caution remains to be added . 
I laid my finger tips on her heart and felt , or imagined that I felt , a faint fluttering and at last I became convinced that her heart was really beating . 
I turned my eyes on the old man , still bending forward , intently watching for the sign he had asked her to make . 
My anger and disgust at his gross earthy egoism had vanished . 
Let us thank God , old man , I said , the tears of joy half choking my utterance . 
She lives she is recovering from her fit . 
He drew back , and on his knees , with bowed head , murmured a prayer of thanks to Heaven . 
Yet when I remembered her face as it had looked an hour ago , I was confirmed in the belief that the progress to recovery , so strangely slow , was yet sure . 
Unconscious , but higher perhaps immortal . 
Afterwards I heard from some Indians to whom I described it that the flower I had discovered was called Hata also that they had a superstition concerning it a strange belief . 
And they also said that whosoever discovered the Hata flower in the forest would overcome all his enemies and obtain all his desires , and finally outlive other men by many years . 
But , as I have said , all this I heard afterwards , and my half superstitious feeling for the flower had grown up independently in my own mind . 
This feeling took such firm possession of my mind that it kept me for a time as motionless as the form I held in my arms . 
I was only released from its power by noting still further changes in the face I watched , a more distinct advance towards conscious life . 
And , at last , bending lower down to feel her breath , the beauty and sweetness of those lips could no longer be resisted , and I touched them with mine . 
Having once tasted their sweetness and fragrance , it was impossible to keep from touching them again and again . 
A strange new radiance had overspread it . 
Her lustrous eyes , half open , were gazing into mine . 
If you had not fainted so quickly , then I should have told you what I must tell you now . 
They are lost , Rima your people but I am with you , and know what you feel , even if you have no words to tell it . 
But what need of words ? It shines in your eyes , it burns like a flame in your face I can feel it in your hands . 
Still resting in my arms , as if glad to rest there , still gazing into my face , it was clear to me that she understood my every word . 
Abel shall I call you Abel now and always ? she spoke , still with her arms round my neck . 
At last I could try no more they were all dead like mother I had chased the false water on the savannah . 
'Oh , let me die too , I said , for I could not bear the pain . 
And afterwards , here in the cave , I was like one asleep , and when I woke I did not really wake . 
It was like morning with the light teasing me to open my eyes and look at it . 
Not yet , dear light a little while longer , it is so sweet to lie still . 
It was not morning , but the firelight , and I was in your arms , not in my little bed . 
Your eyes looking , looking into mine . 
But I could see yours better . 
I remembered everything then , how you once asked me to look into your eyes . 
That is only a hundred a thousand are more , ten times . 
Looking up I count a thousand leaves then stop counting , because there are thousands more behind the first , and thousands more , crowded together so that I cannot count them . 
Lying in your arms , looking up into your face , it was like that I could not count the things I remembered . 
In the wood , when you were there , and before and long , long ago at Voa , when I was a child with mother . 
Tell me some of the things you remembered , Rima . 
Yes , one only one now . 
When I was a child at Voa mother was very lame you know that . 
Whenever we went out , away from the houses , into the forest , walking slowly , slowly , she would sit under a tree while I ran about playing . 
And every time I came back to her I would find her so pale , so sad , crying crying . 
That was when I would hide and come softly back so that she would not hear me coming . 
'Oh , mother , why are you crying ? Does your lame foot hurt you ? And one day she took me in her arms and told me truly why she cried . 
She ceased speaking , but looked at me with a strange new light coming into her eyes . 
Then drawing back her head , she looked again at me , her eyes glistening with tears , her lips half parted with a smile , tender and wistful . 
Ah , poor child ! in spite of all that had been said , all that had happened , she had returned to the old delusion that I must understand her speech . 
I could only return her look , sorrowfully and in silence . 
Her face became clouded with disappointment , then she spoke again with something of pleading in her tone . 
Look , we are not now apart , I hiding in the wood , you seeking , but together , saying the same things . 
In your language yours and now mine . 
But before you came I knew nothing , nothing , for there was only grandfather to talk to . 
A few words each day , the same words . 
If yours is mine , mine must be yours . 
The bird that only chirps and twitters can never sing like the organ bird . 
Easily and well as she seemed able to declare herself in my tongue , I could well imagine that to her it would seem like the merest stammering . 
As she had said to me once when I asked her to speak in Spanish , That is not speaking . 
And so long as she could not commune with me in that better language , which reflected her mind , there would not be that perfect union of soul she so passionately desired . 
By and by , as she grew calmer , I sought to say something that would be consoling to both of us . 
And perhaps , after a while , you will be able to say all you wish in my language , which is also yours , as you said some time ago . 
And in the end , perhaps , you will find that it is not so impossible as you think . 
She looked at me , smiling again through her tears , and shook her head a little . 
Remember what I have heard , that before your mother died you were able to tell Nuflo and the priest what her wish was . 
Can you not , in the same way , tell me why she cried ? I can tell you , but it will not be telling you . 
You can tell the bare facts . 
I can imagine something more , and the rest I must lose . 
Her face became troubled she glanced away and let her eyes wander round the dim , firelit cavern then they returned to mine once more . 
Look , she said , grandfather lying asleep by the fire . 
They would be like the trees and rocks and animals so far ! Not with us nor we with them . 
But we are everywhere alone together , apart we two . 
It is love I know it now , but I did not know it before because I had forgotten what she told me . 
Oh , it will be morning by and by and the sun will shine on my wet leaves and that made me glad till I trembled with happiness . 
Then suddenly the lightning would come , so bright , and I would tremble with fear , and wish that it would be dark again . 
That was when you looked at me sitting in the shadow , and I could not take my eyes away quickly and could not meet yours , so that I trembled with fear . 
But I should not let you go alone , Rima your lonely days are over now . 
She opened her eyes wider and looked earnestly into my face . 
I must go back alone , Abel , she said . 
Before day comes I must leave you . 
Rest here , with grandfather , for a few days and nights , then follow me . 
I heard her with astonishment . 
It must not be , Rima , I cried . 
Her small hand moved up my arm and caressed my cheek then she drew my face down to hers until our lips met . 
But when I looked at her eyes again , I saw that she had not consented to my wish . 
What can you have to do , love ? everything can be done when we are in the wood together . 
O Abel , how happy I shall be ! she said , taking no notice of all I had said . 
Think of me alone , days and days , in the wood , waiting for you , working all the time saying 'Come quickly , Abel come slow , Abel . 
Among the bushes not far from the cave's mouth a small bird had broken out in song , a clear , tender melody soon taken up by other birds further away . 
It was not yet dawn , but there was still some light from the full moon , now somewhere behind the mountains . 
The sweet sound was repeated once more , but much lower down now , and so faintly that I scarcely heard it . 
And when I went on further and called again and again , there was no reply , and I knew that she had indeed gone on that long journey alone . 
CHAPTER XVIII When Nuflo at length opened his eyes he found me sitting alone and despondent by the fire , just returned from my vain chase . 
Not for two days more would he consent to set out on the return journey , and if he could have persuaded me our stay at Riolama would have lasted a week . 
The adventures we met with and the pains we suffered during this long march need not be related . 
The rain made us miserable , but we suffered more from hunger than from any other cause , and on more than one occasion were reduced to the verge of starvation . 
Twice we were driven to beg for food at Indian villages , and as we had nothing to give in exchange for it , we got very little . 
Now I was weak and miserable and without cunning . 
It is true that we could have exchanged the two dogs for cassava bread and corn , but we should then have been worse off than ever . 
Then Nuflo would rejoice and feast , rewarding them with the skin , bones , and entrails . 
He cut up and smoke dried the flesh , and the intolerable pangs of hunger compelled me to share the loathsome food with him . 
We were not only indecent , it seemed to me , but cannibals to feed on the faithful servant that had been our butcher . 
But what does it matter ? I argued with myself . 
All flesh , clean and unclean , should be , and is , equally abhorrent to me , and killing animals a kind of murder . 
But now I find myself constrained to do this evil thing that good may come . 
Only to live I take it now this hateful strength giver that will enable me to reach Rima , and the purer , better life that is to be . 
Rima was still the source and centre of all my thoughts from her they rose , and to her returned . 
Thinking , hoping , dreaming , sustained me in those dark days and nights of pain and privation . 
Imagination was the bread that gave me strength , the wine that exhilarated . 
What sustained old Nuflo's mind I know not . 
This maddening impatience told on my strength , which was small , and hindered me . 
At the finish he became silent and cautious , first entering the belt of trees leading away through the low range of hills at the southern extremity of the wood . 
For some moments I could not realize it . 
No , I had surely made a mistake , the house had not stood on that spot it would appear in sight a little further on . 
I took a few uncertain steps onwards , and then again stood still , my brain reeling , my heart swelling nigh to bursting with anguish . 
I was still standing motionless , with hand pressed to my breast , when Nuflo overtook me . 
Where is it the house ? I stammered , pointing with my hand . 
All his stolidity seemed gone now he was trembling too , his lips silently moving . 
The house , we soon found , had been burnt down . 
Where it had stood a heap of black ashes covered the ground nothing more . 
But on looking round we could discover no sign of human beings having recently visited the spot . 
As to what had become of Rima the old man could say no word . 
The thought that Rima had perished , that she was lost , was unendurable . 
It could not be ! No doubt the Indians tract come and destroyed the house during our absence but she had returned , and they had gone away again to come no more . 
She would be somewhere in the forest , perhaps not far off , impatiently waiting our return . 
A strange melancholy rested on the forest , a quietude seldom broken by a distant bird's cry . 
It occurred to me that the most likely place to seek her would be some of the old haunts known to us both , where we had talked together . 
I thought first of the mora tree , where she had hidden herself from me , and thither I directed my steps . 
The Indian is a good mimic of animal voices , but practice had made me able to distinguish the true from the false bird note . 
All at once I gave a great start , for directly before me , on the projecting root in the deeper shade of a tree , sat a dark , motionless human form . 
As he came up out of the deeper shade I recognized Piake , the surly elder brother of my friend Kua ko . 
It was a great shock to meet him in the wood , but I had no time to reflect just then . 
I only remembered that I had deeply offended him and his people , that they probably looked on me as an enemy , and would think little of taking my life . 
Nothing was left but to put a bold face on , greet him in a friendly way , and invent some plausible story to account for my action in secretly leaving the village . 
Piake ! I cried , advancing three or four steps . 
You have returned , he answered , but without moving . 
He shook his head , then asked where it was . 
Twenty days towards the setting sun , I said . 
As he remained silent I added I heard that I could find gold in the mountains there . 
An old man told me , and we went to look for gold . 
What did you find ? Nothing . 
Ah ! And so our conversation appeared to be at an end . 
But after a few moments my intense desire to discover whether the savages knew aught of Rima or not made me hazard a question . 
Do you live here in the forest now ? I asked . 
He shook his head , and after a while said We come to kill animals . 
You are like me now , I returned quickly you fear nothing . 
He looked distrustfully at me , then came a little nearer and said You are very brave . 
I should not have gone twenty days' journey with no weapons and only an old man for companion . 
What weapons did you have ? I saw that he feared me and wished to make sure that I had it not in my power to do him some injury . 
No weapon except my knife , I replied , with assumed carelessness . 
With that I raised my cloak so as to let him see for himself , turning my body round before him . 
Have you found my pistol ? I added . 
He shook his head but he appeared less suspicious now and came close up to me . 
How do you get food ? Where are you going ? he asked . 
I answered boldly Food ! I am nearly starving . 
I am going to the village to see if the women have got any meat in the pot , and to tell Runi all I have done since I left him . 
Only by means of my own cunning could I be saved , and Nuflo , poor old man , must take his chance . 
At intervals I talked to him , asking after all the other members of the community by name . 
At last , thinking only of Rima , I asked him if any other person or persons besides his people came to the wood now or lived there . 
I dared not press him with more questions but after an interval he said plainly She is not there now . 
And I was forced to believe him for had Rima been in the wood they would not have been there . 
She was not there , this much I had discovered . 
CHAPTER XIX My arrival at the village created some excitement but I was plainly no longer regarded as a friend or one of the family . 
Runi was absent , and I looked forward to his return with no little apprehension he would doubtless decide my fate . 
Kua ko was also away . 
The others sat or stood about the great room , staring at me in silence . 
I took no notice , but merely asked for food , then for my hammock , which I hung up in the old place , and lying down I fell into a doze . 
Runi made his appearance at dusk . 
I rose and greeted him , but he spoke no word and , until he went to his hammock , sat in sullen silence , ignoring my presence . 
On the following day the crisis came . 
And as is usual in such efforts , the same thought and expressions were used again and again , and yet again , with dull , angry insistence . 
The orator of Guayana to be impressive must be long , however little he may have to say . 
Strange as it may seem , I listened critically to him , not without a feeling of scorn at his lower intelligence . 
But I was easier in my mind now . 
I was a white man , he said , they were Indians nevertheless they had treated me well . 
They had fed me and sheltered me . 
They had done a great deal for me they had taught me the use of the zabatana , and had promised to make one for me , asking for nothing in return . 
They had also promised me a wife . 
How had I treated them ? I had deserted them , going away secretly to a distance , leaving them in doubt as to my intentions . 
How could they tell why I had gone , and where ? They had an enemy . 
Managa was his name he and his people hated them I knew that he wished them evil I knew where to find him , for they had told me . 
That was what they thought when I suddenly left them . 
Now I returned to them , saying that I had been to Riolama . 
He knew where Riolama was , although he had never been there it was so far . 
Why did I go to Riolama ? It was a bad place . 
There were Indians there , a few but they were not good Indians like those of Parahuari , and would kill a white man . 
I have heard you , I said . 
Your words are good words . 
They are the words of a friend . 
You are an Indian , I am a white man . 
You do not know all the white man's thoughts . 
These are the things I wish to tell you . 
In the white man's country are two kinds of men . 
Because they have gold , for with gold the white man buys everything . 
But I had an enemy , one worse than Managa , for he was rich and had many people . 
And in a war his people overcame mine , and he took my gold , and all I possessed , making me poor . 
The Indian kills his enemy , but the white man takes his gold , and that is worse than death . 
For the Indians are not like white men they have no gold they are not rich and poor all are alike . 
One roof covers them from the rain and sun . 
All have weapons which they make all kill birds in the forest and catch fish in the rivers and the women cook the meat and all eat from one pot . 
And with the Indians I will be an Indian , and hunt in the forest and eat with them and drink with them . 
Then I left my country and came here , and lived with you , Runi , and was well treated . 
And now , why did I go away ? This I have now to tell you . 
After I had been here a certain time I went over there to the forest . 
You wished me not to go , because of an evil thing , a daughter of the Didi , that lived there but I feared nothing and went . 
There I met an old man , who talked to me in the white man's language . 
He had travelled and seen much , and told me one strange thing . 
On a mountain at Riolama he told me that he had seen a great lump of gold , as much as a man could carry . 
I asked the old man to take me to Riolama and when he had consented I went away from here without saying a word , so as not to be prevented . 
It is far to Riolama , and I had no weapons but I feared nothing . 
I said 'If I must fight I must fight , and if I must be killed I must be killed . 
But when I got to Riolama I found no gold . 
There was only a yellow stone which the old man had mistaken for gold . 
It was yellow , like gold , but it would buy nothing . 
When I had finished speaking he emitted a sound which expressed neither approval nor disapproval , but only the fact that he had heard me . 
His expression had undergone a favourable change it was less grim . 
After a while he remarked , with a peculiar twitching of the mouth which might have developed into a smile The white man will do much to get gold . 
You walked twenty days to see a yellow stone that would buy nothing . 
It was fortunate that he took this view of the case , which was flattering to his Indian nature , and perhaps touched his sense of the ludicrous . 
At all events , he said nothing to discredit my story , to which they had all listened with profound interest . 
But my feelings towards them did not change , nor could they while that black and terrible suspicion concerning Rima was in my heart . 
I talked again freely with them , as if there had been no break in the old friendly relations . 
If they watched me furtively whenever I went out of doors , I affected not to see it . 
I set to work to repair my rude guitar , which had been broken in my absence , and studied to show them a cheerful countenance . 
But they were many , and there was no choice but to be cautious and patient if I wished to outwit them with a cunning superior to their own . 
Three days after my arrival at the village , Kua ko returned with his companion . 
Kua ko appeared to have brought some important news , which he discussed with Runi and the others and on the following day I noticed that preparations for an expedition were in progress . 
Spears and bows and arrows were got ready , but not blow pipes , and I knew by this that the expedition would not be a hunting one . 
Having discovered so much , also that only four men were going out , I called Kua ko aside and begged him to let me go with them . 
He seemed pleased at the proposal , and at once repeated it to Runi , who considered for a little and then consented . 
All I wished to show him was that his enemies were my enemies , that I was ready to fight for my friend . 
He was pleased at my words , and said no more and gave me no weapons . 
Next morning , however , when we set out before daylight , I made the discovery that he was carrying my revolver fastened to his waist . 
He had concealed it carefully under the one simple garment he wore , but it bulged slightly , and so the secret was betrayed . 
Sitting by the fire I resolved to make a first attempt to discover from Kua ko anything concerning Rima which might be known to him . 
Instead of lying down when the others did , I remained seated , my guardian also sitting no doubt waiting for me to lie down first . 
Presently I moved nearer to him and began a conversation in a low voice , anxious not to rouse the attention of the other men . 
Once you said that Oalava would be given to me for a wife , I began . 
Some day I shall want a wife . 
He nodded approval , and remarked sententiously that the desire to possess a wife was common to all men . 
What has been left to me ? I said despondingly and spreading out my hands . 
He fell readily into the trap . 
My return to practical subjects pleased him . 
He bade me hope that Oalava might yet be mine in spite of my poverty . 
Besides , did not Runi wish to keep me with them for other reasons ? But he could not keep me wifeless . 
I could do much I could sing and make music I was brave and feared nothing I could teach the children to fight . 
He did not say , however , that I could teach anything to one of his years and attainments . 
I protested that he gave me too much praise , that they were just as brave . 
He shook his head , and then all at once began to tell me how they first came to go there to hunt . 
Thus it came to be known that I had left the wood with the old man and the daughter of the Didi . 
His words had begun to excite me greatly , but I studied to appear calm and only slightly interested , so as to draw him on to say more . 
Then we returned , I said at last . 
But only two of us , and not together . 
I left the old man on the road , and SHE left us in Riolama . 
It was hard to dissemble still , to tempt him to say something that would madden me ! No , no , I answered , after considering his words . 
She feared to return she went away to hide herself in the great mountains beyond Riolama . 
She could not come back . 
But she came back ! he persisted , with that triumphant gleam in his eyes once more . 
He continued Seven days before you returned we saw her in the wood . 
We were always expecting , watching , always afraid and when hunting we were three and four together . 
On that day I and three others saw her . 
It was in an open place , where the trees are big and wide apart . 
We started up and chased her when she ran from us , but feared to shoot . 
And in one moment she climbed up into a small tree , then , like a monkey , passed from its highest branches into a big tree . 
We could not see her there , but she was there in the big tree , for there was no other tree near no way of escape . 
Three of us sat down to watch , and the other went back to the village . 
They brought axes and knives . 
Then Runi said 'Let no one shoot an arrow into the tree thinking to hit her , for the arrow would be caught in her hand and thrown back at him . 
We must burn her in the tree there is no way to kill her except by fire . 
So we cut down the small tree and lopped the branches off and heaped them round the big trunk . 
The feeling with which I had listened to this recital had become intolerable . 
The sweat ran from me in streams I shivered like a person in a fit of ague , and clenched my teeth together to prevent them from rattling . 
I must drink , I said , cutting him short and rising to my feet . 
He also rose , but did not follow me , when , with uncertain steps , I made my way to the waterside , which was ten or twelve yards away . 
Lying prostrate on my chest , I took a long draught of clear cold water , and held my face for a few moments in the current . 
It sent a chill through me , drying my wet skin , and bracing me for the concluding part of the hideous narrative . 
Slowly I stepped back to the fireside and sat down again , while he resumed his old place at my side . 
You burnt the tree down , I said . 
Finish telling me now and let me sleep my eyes are heavy . 
While the men cut and brought trees , the women and children gathered dry stuff in the forest and brought it in their arms and piled it round . 
It was well for me that he spoke rapidly , and finished quickly . 
Even before he had quite concluded I drew my cloak round my face and stretched myself out . 
And I suppose that he at once followed my example , but I had grown blind and deaf to outward things just then . 
I could not endure it longer , and rose at last to my feet . 
Now was my chance to escape if to escape was my wish . 
Yes for I now possessed the coveted knowledge , and nothing more was to be gained by keeping with my deadly enemies . 
Glancing away from Kua ko's still stone like face . 
I caught sight of that pale solitary star which Runi had pointed out to me low down in the north western sky when I had asked him where his enemy lived . 
He had turned over on his side , and his face was now towards me . 
His eyes appeared closed , but he might be only feigning sleep , and I dared not go back to pick up the spear . 
At intervals I paused to listen for a moment and presently I heard a pattering sound as of footsteps coming swiftly after me . 
I instantly concluded that Kua ko had been awake all the time watching my movements , and that he was now following me . 
I now put forth my whole speed , and while thus running could distinguish no sound . 
Besides , he had no doubt roused the others before starting , and they would be close behind . 
It was Kua ko , and after wounding me with his spear he was about to finish me with his knife . 
I was wounded , but my right hand was sound and clutched a knife as good as his , and we were on an equality . 
I waited for him calmly . 
Ah , that was only making believe and childish play this was reality . 
From his prostrate form I turned , the wet , red knife in my hand , to meet the others , still thinking that they were on the track and close at hand . 
But had I indeed killed him ? I asked , hearing a sound like a groan escape from his lips . 
And still no sound of hurrying footsteps came to my listening ears and no vague forms appeared in the darkness . 
I concluded that he had either left them sleeping or that they had not followed in the right direction . 
CHAPTER XX That good fight had been to me like a draught of wine , and made me for a while oblivious of my loss and of the pain from my wound . 
But the glow and feeling of exultation did not last the lacerated flesh smarted I was weak from loss of blood , and oppressed with sensations of fatigue . 
At last , recovering somewhat from my faint condition , and losing all fear of being overtaken , my sorrow revived in full force , and thought returned to madden me . 
Of that night , the beginning of the blackest period of my life , I shall say no more and over subsequent events I shall pass quickly . 
Morning found me at a distance of many miles from the scene of my duel with the Indian , in a broken , hilly country , varied with savannah and open forest . 
I was well nigh spent with my long march , and felt that unless food was obtained before many hours my situation would be indeed desperate . 
I told him a part of my story enough to show that I had a deadly feud with Runi , that I had escaped from him after killing one of his people . 
He had followed the trace for some distance , and he was satisfied that Runi had come thus far in the first place only with the intention of spying on him . 
Kill me , Managa , I cried , smiting my chest as I stood facing him . 
Kill me , and the result will be that he will come upon you unawares and murder you all , as he has resolved to do sooner or later . 
It is painful to recall that secret dark chapter of my life that period of moral insanity . 
But I wish not to be a hypocrite , conscious or unconscious , to delude myself or another with this plea of insanity . 
Can I even say that I was blinded by passion ? Driven , perhaps , but certainly not blinded . 
For no reaction , or submission , had followed on that furious revolt against the unknown being , personal or not , that is behind nature , in whose existence I believed . 
I was still in revolt I would hate Him , and show my hatred by being like Him , as He appears to us reflected in that mirror of Nature . 
I succeeded in the end it would have been strange if I had not . 
The horrible details need not be given . 
Managa did not wait for his enemy , but fell on him unexpectedly , an hour after nightfall in his own village . 
After a while I slunk away out of the great circle of firelight into the thick darkness beyond . 
Into the deeper blackness of the interior I dared not venture on the border I paused to ask myself what I did there alone in the night time . 
Sitting down , I covered my face with my hands as if to hide it more effectually than it could be hidden by night and the forest shadows . 
My physical misery was now so great that it prevented me from dwelling on the scenes witnessed on the previous evening . 
Nature was again merciful in this . 
I only remembered that it was necessary to hide myself , in case the Indians should be still in the neighbourhood and pay the wood a visit . 
Slowly and painfully I crept away into the forest , and there sat for several hours , scarcely thinking at all , in a half stupefied condition . 
At noon the sun shone out and dried the wood . 
This fear prevented me from stirring until the twilight came , when I crept forth and made my way to the border of the forest , to spend the night there . 
When morning came again , I felt so weak that a vague fear of sinking down and dying of hunger at last roused me and sent me forth in quest of food . 
It was little , but it sufficed for the day . 
I was more forgetful of self , more eager , and like a wild animal with no thought or feeling beyond its immediate wants . 
Fatigued at the end , I fell asleep as soon as darkness brought my busy rambles to a close , and did not wake until another morning dawned . 
My hunger was extreme now . 
The possession of this gum , when night closed round me again , produced in me an intense longing for artificial light and warmth . 
The darkness was harder than ever to endure . 
Yet there was fire in everything even when I struck at hard wood with my knife , sparks were emitted . 
I nursed it well , and spent the night beside it and it also served to roast some huge white grubs which I had found in the rotten wood of a prostrate trunk . 
For a long time an undefined feeling prevented me from going near the site of Nuflo's burnt lodge . 
I cleared away ashes and rubbish , and marked out the very spot where Rima's separate bower had been for my habitation , which I intended to make small . 
In five days it was finished then , after lighting a fire , I stretched myself out in my dry bed of moss and leaves with a feeling that was almost triumphant . 
From that first sleep under shelter I woke refreshed , and was not driven by the cruel spur of hunger into the wet forest . 
The wished time had come of rest from labour , of leisure for thought . 
I had other company besides this unfailing vision and the bright dancing fire that talked to me in its fantastic fire language . 
But to exclude them entirely proved impossible through a dozen invisible chinks they would find their way to me also some entered by day to lie concealed until after nightfall . 
He troubled me but now , for Rima's sake , could slay no living thing except from motives of hunger . 
He might come stealthily back at night to plunge his long , crooked farces into my throat , poisoning my blood with fever and delirium and black death . 
So I left him alone , and glanced furtively and fearfully at him , hoping that he had not divined any thoughts thus we lived on unsocially together . 
More companionable , but still in an uncomfortable way , were the large crawling , running insects crickets , beetles , and others . 
Centipedes and millipedes in dozens came too , and were not welcome . 
I grew skilful at picking them up with a pair of pliant green twigs , to thrust them into the outer darkness . 
One night a moth fluttered in and alighted on my hand as I sat by the fire , causing me to hold my breath as I gazed on it . 
Very soon it flew up , circling about , and finally lighted on the palm leaf thatch directly over the fire . 
I sprang forward with a shriek and stood staring into the fire , my whole frame trembling with a sudden terrible emotion . 
It was calm then after the storm . 
Nevertheless , my health deteriorated . 
I ate little and slept little and grew thin and weak . 
To see this reflection had a strangely disturbing effect on me . 
A torturing voice would whisper in my ear Yes , you are evidently going mad . 
By and by you will rush howling through the forest , only to drop down at last and die and no person will ever find and bury your bones . 
Old Nuflo was more fortunate in that he perished first . 
A lying voice ! I retorted in sudden anger . 
My faculties were never keener than now . 
Not a fruit can ripen but I find it . 
Could a savage born in the forest do more ? He would starve where I find food ! Ay , yes , there is nothing wonderful in that , answered the voice . 
The stranger from a cold country suffers less from the heat , when days are hottest , than the Indian who knows no other climate . 
But mark the result ! The stranger dies , while the Indian , sweating and gasping for breath , survives . 
In like manner the low minded savage , cut off from all human fellowship , keeps his faculties to the end , while your finer brain proves your ruin . 
It is not the tangled condition of your hair , persisted the voice , but your eyes , so wild and strange in their expression , that show the approach of madness . 
And being no longer able to reply , rage and desperation drove me to an act which only seemed to prove that the hateful voice had prophesied truly . 
Nor had I looked for it . 
On the contrary , my wish was never to see it , and the fear of coming accidentally upon it made me keep to the old familiar paths . 
I started up and replenished the fire with trembling hands , then set the door open to let the welcoming stream out into the wood . 
But Rima had done more going out into the black forest in the pitiless storm , she had found and led me home . 
Could I do less ! I was quickly out in the shadows of the wood . 
I searched all day and found nothing but the area was large , and to search it thoroughly would require several days . 
On the third day I discovered the fatal spot , and knew that never again would I behold Rima in the flesh , that my last hope had indeed been a vain one . 
Here and there slender plants had sprung up through the ashes , and the omnipresent small leaved creepers were beginning to throw their pale green embroidery over the blackened trunks . 
Having resolved to sift and examine the entire heap , I at once set about my task . 
And when I had recovered them all , even to the smallest , I took my treasure home . 
Another storm had shaken my soul , and had been succeeded by a second calm , which was more complete and promised to be more enduring than the first . 
The calcined bones I had rescued were kept in one of the big , rudely shaped , half burnt earthen jars which Nuflo had used for storing grain and other food stuff . 
I might , in the proudly modest spirit of the old sculptors , have inscribed on the vase the words Abel was doing this . 
The days went by , and to others grouped themselves into weeks and months to me they were only days not Saturday , Sunday , Monday , but nameless . 
My stock of provisions had been so long consumed that I had forgotten the flavour of pulse and maize and pumpkins and purple and sweet potatoes . 
Only wild food , and too little of that , found with much seeking and got with many hurts . 
Birds screamed at and scolded me branches bruised and thorns scratched me and still worse were the angry clouds of waspish things no bigger than flies . 
Bird and beast despised my snares , which took me so many waking hours at night to invent , so many daylight hours to make . 
But nothing impossible happened , and I had no meat . 
I found a serpent coiled up in my way in a small glade , and arming myself with a long stick , I roused him from his siesta and slew him without mercy . 
Rima was not there to pluck the rage from my heart and save his evil life . 
The starved , bloodless brain , I said , has strange thoughts . 
Long ago , when the soul that looked from your eyes was not the accursed thing it is now . 
Now Rima would start at the sight of them now she would fly in terror from their insane expression . 
Night by night , from my dry grass bed I beheld Nuflo sitting in his old doubled up posture , his big brown feet close to the white ashes sitting silent and miserable . 
I pitied him I owed him hospitality but it seemed intolerable that he should be there . 
It was better to shut my eyes for then Rima's arms would be round my neck the silky mist of her hair against my face , her flowery breath mixing with my breath . 
Then my eyes would open wide . 
For do you not see that when I come she fades away and is nothing ? Not that do not ask it . 
But I will wait patiently , and we shall be together in the end , and see each other without disguise . 
Only wish not for it soon think not that death will ease your pain , and seek it not . 
Austerities ? Good works ? Prayers ? They are not seen they are not heard , they are less than nothing , and there is no intercession . 
I did not know it then , but you knew it . 
That which you have done is done , and yours must be the penalty and the sorrow yours and mine yours and mine yours and mine . 
I was not so crazed as not to know it only a phantom , an illusion , yet more real than reality real as my crime and vain remorse and death to come . 
I must wait , and in spite of a weakened body and a mind diseased , struggle still to wrest a scanty subsistence from wild nature . 
No doubt it would contain grubs those huge , white wood borers which now formed an important item in my diet . 
It was a robust , round headed , short legged creature , about as big as a good sized cat , and clothed in a thick , greenish brown fur . 
Poor sloth ! I said as I stood over it . 
A noble capture ! As much to me as if a stray , migratory mule had rambled into the wood and found me , and I him . 
How safely to convey Rima's treasured ashes was a subject of much thought and anxiety . 
On the morrow I would bid a last farewell to that forest of many memories . 
Glancing at the fragments scattered on the floor , I remembered old Nuflo , and how I had surprised him at his feast of rank coatimundi in his secret retreat . 
After the good night to my neighbour , I tumbled into my straw and slept soundly , animal like . 
But when morning dawned again , it was bitter to rise up and go away for ever from that spot where I had often talked with Rima the true and the visionary . 
The sky was cloudless and the forest wet as if rain had fallen it was only a heavy dew , and it made the foliage look pale and hoary in the early light . 
The everlasting beauty and freshness of nature was over all again , as I had so often seen it with joy and adoration before grief and dreadful passions had dimmed my vision . 
And now as I walked , murmuring my last farewell , my eyes grew dim again with the tears that gathered to them . 
That was what I feared . 
The recollection served to inspire me with a new desperate courage . 
Bidding good bye to the Indian village where the fever had smitten me , I set out once more on that apparently hopeless adventure . 
Hopeless , indeed , it seemed to one in my weak condition . 
My legs trembled under me when I walked , while hot sun and pelting rain were like flame and stinging ice to my morbidly sensitive skin . 
For many days my sufferings were excessive , so that I often wished myself back in that milder purgatory of the forest , from which I had been so anxious to escape . 
Hot and cold , cold and hot , and no medium . 
This I set down to the workings of remorse in a disordered mind and to clouds of venomous insects perpetually shrilling in my ears and stabbing me with their small , fiery needles . 
Not only was I pursued by phantom savages and pierced by phantom arrows , but the creations of the Indian imagination had now become as real to me as anything in nature . 
I was persecuted by that superhuman man eating monster supposed to be the guardian of the forest . 
His huge , hairy arms are round me his foul , hot breath is on my skin he will tear my liver out with his great green teeth to satisfy his raging hunger . 
Nor can I conjecture how far I strayed north or south from my course . 
I may have seen Roraima during that mentally clouded period . 
That spectral moonlight camoodi was one of many serpent fancies that troubled me . 
There was another , surpassing them all , which attended me many days . 
When the sun grew hot overhead and the way was over open savannah country , I would see something moving on the ground at my side and always keeping abreast of me . 
A small snake , one or two feet long . 
No , not a small snake , but a sinuous mark in the pattern on a huge serpent's head , five or six yards long , always moving deliberately at my side . 
How or when this monster left me washed away by cold rains perhaps I do not know . 
Probably it only transformed itself into some new shape , its long coils perhaps changing into those endless processions and multitudes of pale faced people I seem to remember having encountered . 
In my devious wanderings I must have reached the shores of the undiscovered great White Lake , and passed through the long shining streets of Manoa , the mysterious city in the wilderness . 
A new Ahasuerus , cursed by inexpiable crime , yet sustained by a great purpose . 
But Ahasuerus prayed ever for death to come to him and ran to meet it , while I fought against it with all my little strength . 
There would have been comfort in this belief had it not been for that fevered imagination which corrupted everything that touched me and gave it some new hateful character . 
For soon enough this conviction that the will would triumph grew to something monstrous , a parent of monstrous fancies . 
I had lived through that which would have killed most men lived only to accomplish the one remaining purpose of my life . 
Now it was accomplished the sacred ashes brought so far , with such infinite labour , through so many and such great perils , were safe and would mix with mine at last . 
There was nothing more in life to make me love it or keep me prisoner in its weary chains . 
Or take it as a symbol , since that may come to be one with the thing symbolized . 
In those darkest days in the forest I had her as a visitor a Rima of the mind , whose words when she spoke reflected my despair . 
Yet even then I was not entirely without hope . 
Heaven itself , she said , could not undo that which I had done and she also said that if I forgave myself , Heaven would say no word , nor would she . 
Nevertheless there is a way , which every soul can find out for itself even the most rebellious , the most darkened with crime and tormented by remorse . 
