THE GODS OF MARS was first published in ALL STORY MAGAZINE as a five part serial , January through May . 
I had wondered if he had found his black haired Princess and the slender son he had dreamed was with her in the royal gardens of Tardos Mors , awaiting his return . 
Tearing it open I read 'Meet me to morrow hotel Raleigh Richmond . 
'JOHN CARTER' Early the next morning I took the first train for Richmond and within two hours was being ushered into the room occupied by John Carter . 
As I entered he rose to greet me , his old time cordial smile of welcome lighting his handsome face . 
Apparently he had not aged a minute , but was still the straight , clean limbed fighting man of thirty . 
You have been back to Mars ? Tell me . 
He patted a swelling portfolio that lay on the table at his elbow . 
Earth men have not yet progressed to a point where they can comprehend the things that I have written in those notes . 
'Give them what you wish of it , what you think will not harm them , but do not feel aggrieved if they laugh at you . 
That night I walked down to the cemetery with him . 
At the door of his vault he turned and pressed my hand . 
'Good bye , nephew , he said . 
The great door swung slowly to . 
The ponderous bolts grated into place . 
I have never seen Captain John Carter , of Virginia , since . 
E. R. B. CONTENTS Contents I. The Plant Men II . 
The Chamber of Mystery IV . 
Thuvia V. Corridors of Peril VI . 
The Black Pirates of Barsoom VII . 
The Depths of Omean IX . 
Issus , Goddess of Life Eternal X. The Prison Isle of Shador XI . 
When Hell Broke Loose XII . 
A Break for Liberty XIV . 
The Eyes in the Dark XV . 
Through Flood and Flame XXII . 
Suddenly a qualm of nausea swept over me , my senses swam , my knees gave beneath me and I pitched headlong to the ground upon the very verge of the dizzy bluff . 
With scarcely a parting glance I turned my eyes again toward Mars , lifted my hands toward his lurid rays , and waited . 
Nor did I have long to wait for scarce had I turned ere I shot with the rapidity of thought into the awful void before me . 
I call them birds since they were winged , but mortal eye ne'er rested on such odd , unearthly shapes . 
As I rose to investigate further I experienced the same ridiculous catastrophe that had met my first attempt to walk under Martian conditions . 
I arose again , laughing at my forgetfulness , and soon had mastered once more the art of attuning my earthly sinews to these changed conditions . 
As I walked slowly down the imperceptible slope toward the sea I could not help but note the park like appearance of the sward and trees . 
The trees of the forest attracted my deep admiration as I proceeded toward the sea . 
As far aloft as I could see the stems and branches and twigs were as smooth and as highly polished as the newest of American made pianos . 
At a little distance up the river rose mighty perpendicular bluffs , from the very base of which the great river seemed to rise . 
But it was not these inspiring and magnificent evidences of Nature's grandeur that took my immediate attention from the beauties of the forest . 
It was the sight of a score of figures moving slowly about the meadow near the bank of the mighty river . 
Odd , grotesque shapes they were unlike anything that I had ever seen upon Mars , and yet , at a distance , most manlike in appearance . 
The larger specimens appeared to be about ten or twelve feet in height when they stood erect , and to be proportioned as to torso and lower extremities precisely as is earthly man . 
The fastest flier of the Heliumetic Navy could not quickly enough have carried me far from this hideous creature . 
Below this repulsive orifice the face was quite blank to the chin , for the thing had no mouth that I could discover . 
The head , with the exception of the face , was covered by a tangled mass of jet black hair some eight or ten inches in length . 
The body and the legs were as symmetrically human as Nature could have fashioned them , and the feet , too , were human in shape , but of monstrous proportions . 
From heel to toe they were fully three feet long , and very flat and very broad . 
They were suspended by a small stem which seemed to grow from the exact tops of their heads to where it connected them with the body of the adult . 
Whether they were the young , or merely portions of a composite creature , I did not know . 
Instantly every eye turned toward one member of the herd , a large fellow who evidently was the leader . 
Their speed and method of locomotion were both remarkable , springing as they did in great leaps of twenty or thirty feet , much after the manner of a kangaroo . 
For this reason I came quite close to the cause of the disturbance before the scene broke upon my horrified gaze . 
As I topped a great boulder I saw the herd of plant men surrounding a little group of perhaps five or six green men and women of Barsoom . 
That I was indeed upon Mars I now had no doubt , for here were members of the wild hordes that people the dead sea bottoms and deserted cities of that dying planet . 
But now they stood back to back , facing , in wide eyed amazement , the very evidently hostile demonstrations of a common enemy . 
Both men and women were armed with long swords and daggers , but no firearms were in evidence , else it had been short shrift for the gruesome plant men of Barsoom . 
The plant man charged to within a dozen feet of the party and then , with a bound , rose as though to pass directly above their heads . 
The balance of the frightful herd was now circling rapidly and with bewildering speed about the little knot of victims . 
The other , however , dealt a single blow with his cruel tail that laid both of the females crushed corpses upon the ground . 
It will be a great death , I said to my companion . 
Look ! As he shot a quick glance in the direction I indicated he smiled . 
We may at least die fighting and as great warriors should , John Carter , he replied . 
We had just finished the last of our immediate antagonists as he spoke , and I turned in surprised wonderment at the sound of my name . 
Come , cried Tars Tarkas , we must make for the cliffs . 
There lies our only hope of even temporary escape there we may find a cave or a narrow ledge which two may defend for ever against this motley , unarmed horde . 
Together we raced across the scarlet sward , I timing my speed that I might not outdistance my slower companion . 
They were rapidly overhauling us when Tars Tarkas cried to me to hasten ahead and discover , if possible , the sanctuary we sought . 
The cliffs rose perpendicular directly from the almost level sward of the valley . 
There was no accumulation of fallen debris , forming a more or less rough ascent to them , as is the case with nearly all other cliffs I have ever seen . 
The cliffs towered above me a good five thousand feet . 
The sun was not quite upon them and they loomed a dull yellow in their own shade . 
Here and there they were broken with streaks and patches of dusky red , green , and occasional areas of white quartz . 
Altogether they were very beautiful , but I fear that I did not regard them with a particularly appreciative eye on this , my first inspection of them . 
Tars Tarkas was approaching me rapidly , and still more rapidly came the awful horde at his heels . 
Almost immediately I recognised them for what they were , the dark openings of caves entering the solid walls possible avenues of escape or temporary shelter , could we but reach them . 
There was but a single way , and that led through the mighty , towering trees upon our right . 
However , there was nothing else to consider than an attempt to scale the trees contiguous to the cliff in an effort to reach the caves above . 
The Thark grasped the possibilities and the difficulties of the plan at once , but there was no alternative , and so we set out rapidly for the trees nearest the cliff . 
But that Tars Tarkas was the bravest of the brave he had proven thousands of times yes , tens of thousands in countless mortal combats with men and beasts . 
But I had reckoned without a just appreciation either of the cunning of my immediate antagonist or the swiftness with which his fellows were covering the distance which had separated them from me . 
In an instant the brute was upon me , but ere it could fasten its hideous mouths into my breast and throat I grasped a writhing tentacle in either hand . 
Now , at last , I saw the nature of the other monsters who had come with the plant men in response to the weird calling of the man upon the cliff's face . 
They were that most dreaded of Martian creatures great white apes of Barsoom . 
They stand fifteen feet in height and walk erect upon their hind feet . 
Like the green Martians , they have an intermediary set of arms midway between their upper and lower limbs . 
Upon their heads grows an enormous shock of bristly hair . 
Instantly a score of cruel fangs and keen talons were sunk into my flesh cold , sucking lips fastened themselves upon my arteries . 
Time and again the ferocious apes sprang in to close with us , and time and again we beat them back with our swords . 
Tars Tarkas was in the lead , and suddenly I heard a little cry of exultation from him . 
In with you , Tars Tarkas , I cried , but he would not go saying that his bulk was too great for the little aperture , while I might slip in easily . 
We shall both die if we remain without , John Carter here is a slight chance for one of us . 
Then we shall die together , Tars Tarkas , I replied , for I shall not go first . 
Let me defend the opening while you get in , then my smaller stature will permit me to slip in with you before they can prevent . 
We still were fighting furiously as we talked in broken sentences , punctured with vicious cuts and thrusts at our swarming enemy . 
As you will , my friend , I replied but quickly now , head first , while I cover your retreat . 
He hesitated a little at that word , for never before in his whole life of continual strife had he turned his back upon aught than a dead or defeated enemy . 
Haste , Tars Tarkas , I urged , or we shall both go down to profitless defeat I cannot hold them for ever alone . 
As he dropped to the ground to force his way into the tree , the whole howling pack of hideous devils hurled themselves upon me . 
But scarce had I fallen ere I felt powerful hands grip my ankles , and in another second I was being drawn within the shelter of the tree's interior . 
Torn and bleeding from many cruel wounds , I lay panting upon the ground within the hollow of the tree , while Tars Tarkas defended the opening from the furious mob without . 
As I raised my eyes toward its roof to note the height I saw far above me a faint glow of light . 
There was an opening above . 
If we could but reach it we might still hope to make the shelter of the cliff caves . 
These bars were set one above another about three feet apart , and formed a perfect ladder as far above me as I could see . 
For fully five hundred feet I continued to climb , until at length I reached the opening in the stem which admitted the light . 
I did not venture out upon the limb for fear that I might be discovered and our retreat in this direction cut off but instead hurried to retrace my steps to Tars Tarkas . 
I soon reached him and presently we were both ascending the long ladder toward the opening above . 
As we were to learn later , this precaution saved us from dire predicament , and was eventually the means of our salvation . 
Five hundred feet below me lay the vivid scarlet carpet of the valley nearly five thousand feet above towered the mighty , gleaming face of the gorgeous cliffs . 
The cave that I faced was not one of those that I had seen from the ground , and which lay much higher , possibly a thousand feet . 
But so far as I might know it was as good for our purpose as another , and so I returned to the tree for Tars Tarkas . 
This we did without mishap and soon found ourselves together upon the verge of a dizzy little balcony , with a magnificent view of the valley spreading out below us . 
As far as the eye could reach gorgeous forest and crimson sward skirted a silent sea , and about all towered the brilliant monster guardian cliffs . 
As we advanced we found a well proportioned tunnel cut from the solid cliff . 
Its walls rose some twenty feet above the floor , which was about five feet in width . 
How far we traversed the tunnel in this manner I do not know , but presently we came to an obstruction which blocked our further progress . 
Without more ado I swung the door wide open and , followed by the huge Thark , stepped into the chamber . 
My fingers clawed futilely at the unyielding portal , while my eyes sought in vain for a duplicate of the button which had given us ingress . 
And then , from unseen lips , a cruel and mocking peal of laughter rang through the desolate place . 
CHAPTER III THE CHAMBER OF MYSTERY For moments after that awful laugh had ceased reverberating through the rocky room , Tars Tarkas and I stood in tense and expectant silence . 
But no further sound broke the stillness , nor within the range of our vision did aught move . 
At length Tars Tarkas laughed softly , after the manner of his strange kind when in the presence of the horrible or terrifying . 
It is not an hysterical laugh , but rather the genuine expression of the pleasure they derive from the things that move Earth men to loathing or to tears . 
I looked up at the Thark , a smile upon my own lips , for here in truth was greater need for a smiling face than a trembling chin . 
What do you make of it all ? I asked . 
Where in the deuce are we ? He looked at me in surprise . 
Where are we ? he repeated . 
No , Tars Tarkas , I know not where we be . 
Why you had gone none could guess , for your princess still lived Thank God , I interrupted him . 
And she lives yet ? She lives , John Carter . 
You have not told me where we are , I reminded him . 
We are where I expected to find you , John Carter and another . 
Many years ago you heard the story of the woman who taught me the thing that green Martians are reared to hate , the woman who taught me to love . 
You know the cruel tortures and the awful death her love won for her at the hands of the beast , Tal Hajus . 
She , I thought , awaited me by the Lost Sea of Korus . 
Do you understand now where you be , John Carter ? And that was the River Iss , emptying into the Lost Sea of Korus in the Valley Dor ? I asked . 
This , John Carter , is Heaven . 
His tone was cold and ironical its bitterness but reflecting the terrible disappointment he had suffered . 
I laid my hand upon his shoulder . 
I am sorry , I said , nor did there seem aught else to say . 
As Earth men say , we are between the devil and the deep sea , Tars Tarkas , I replied , nor could I help but smile at our dilemma . 
But about yourself , John Carter , he cried at last . 
I have answered you , my friend . 
Do you believe ? I believe , replied Tars Tarkas , though I cannot understand . 
As we talked I had been searching the interior of the chamber with my eyes . 
Here and there polished surfaces of ruby , emerald , and diamond patched the golden walls and ceiling . 
The floor was of another material , very hard , and worn by much use to the smoothness of glass . 
Aside from the two doors I could discern no sign of other aperture , and as one we knew to be locked against us I approached the other . 
Hope not , for there is no hope . 
Go back , O fools , the way thou camest . 
And then the awful laugh broke out from another part of the chamber . 
Most uncanny , I remarked , turning to Tars Tarkas . 
What shall we do ? he asked . 
If , as you say , we cannot fight empty air , Tars Tarkas , I replied , neither , on the other hand , can empty air fight us . 
I , who have faced and conquered in my time thousands of sinewy warriors and tempered blades , shall not be turned back by wind nor no more shall you , Thark . 
But unseen voices may emanate from unseen and unseeable creatures who wield invisible blades , answered the green warrior . 
The banth is a fierce beast of prey that roams the low hills surrounding the dead seas of ancient Mars . 
Like nearly all Martian animals it is almost hairless , having only a great bristly mane about its thick neck . 
An instant later I drew my blade from the still heart of this great Barsoomian lion , and turning toward Tars Tarkas was surprised to see him facing a similar monster . 
From then on for the better part of an hour one hideous creature after another was launched upon us , springing apparently from the empty air about us . 
What I saw was the quick movement of a section of the wall behind me . 
It was turning upon pivots , and with it a section of the floor directly in front of it was turning . 
The card might represent the section of the wall that turned and the silver dollar the section of the floor . 
Both were so nicely fitted into the adjacent portions of the floor and wall that no crack had been noticeable in the dim light of the chamber . 
But what had interested me most was the sight that the half turned section had presented through the opening that it had made . 
The prisoners behind him were red Martians . 
Chained with them were a number of fierce beasts , such as had been turned upon us , and others equally as ferocious . 
As I turned to meet my new foe it was with a heart considerably lightened . 
Watch the wall at your end of the chamber , Tars Tarkas , I cautioned , it is through secret doorways in the wall that the brutes are loosed upon us . 
I was very close to him and spoke in a low whisper that my knowledge of their secret might not be disclosed to our tormentors . 
Instantly my own eyes sought the mirror upon Tars Tarkas' back and in another second I was closely watching the section of the wall which had been disgorging its savage terrors upon us . 
I had not long to wait , for presently the golden surface commenced to move rapidly . 
Scarcely had it started than I gave the signal to Tars Tarkas , simultaneously springing for the receding half of the pivoting door . 
In like manner the Thark wheeled and leaped for the opening being made by the inswinging section . 
A single bound carried me completely through into the adjoining room and brought me face to face with the fellow whose cruel face I had seen before . 
He was about my own height and well muscled and in every outward detail moulded precisely as are Earth men . 
At his side hung a long sword , a short sword , a dagger , and one of the destructive radium revolvers that are common upon Mars . 
Instantly he drew his long sword , and thus evenly armed we set to in earnest for one of the closest battles I ever have fought . 
The fellow was a marvellous swordsman and evidently in practice , while I had not gripped the hilt of a sword for ten long years before that morning . 
His face became livid with rage as he found my guard impregnable , while blood flowed from a dozen minor wounds upon his face and body . 
Who are you , white man ? he hissed . 
That you are no Barsoomian from the outer world is evident from your colour . 
And you are not of us . 
His last statement was almost a question . 
What if I were from the Temple of Issus ? I hazarded on a wild guess . 
Fate forfend ! he exclaimed , his face going white under the blood that now nearly covered it . 
I did not know how to follow up my lead , but I carefully laid the idea away for future use should circumstances require it . 
But as the body of my antagonist sank an inert mass to the floor a cry of warning broke from one of the female prisoners . 
The fellow had crept stealthily from a dark corridor and was almost upon me with raised sword ere I saw him . 
Tars Tarkas was nowhere in sight and the secret panel in the wall , through which I had come , was closed . 
But the fellow was evidently of another mind , for he backed and parried and parried and sidestepped until I was almost completely fagged from the exertion of attempting to finish him . 
And so he died , his thin lips curled in the snarl of his hateful laugh , and a bullet from the revolver of his dead companion bursting in his heart . 
His body , borne by the impetus of his headlong rush , plunged upon me . 
The hilt of his sword must have struck my head , for with the impact of the corpse I lost consciousness . 
CHAPTER IV THUVIA It was the sound of conflict that aroused me once more to the realities of life . 
For a moment I could neither place my surroundings nor locate the sounds which had aroused me . 
As I rose to my feet I glanced hurriedly about the chamber in which I had just encountered such a warm reception . 
The prisoners and the savage brutes rested in their chains by the opposite wall eyeing me with varying expressions of curiosity , sullen rage , surprise , and hope . 
The latter emotion seemed plainly evident upon the handsome and intelligent face of the young red Martian woman whose cry of warning had been instrumental in saving my life . 
As she was entirely unadorned I could not even guess her station in life , though it was evident that she was either a prisoner or slave in her present environment . 
With a cry of encouragement I threw my weight against the secret door , but as well have assayed the down hurling of the cliffs themselves . 
Know you the secret of it then ? I asked . 
Yes release me and I will give you entrance to the other horror chamber , if you wish . 
The keys to my fetters are upon the first dead of thy foemen . 
Again she sought out a key upon the ring . 
This time a slender , needle like affair which she inserted in an almost invisible hole in the wall . 
Instantly the door swung upon its pivot , and the contiguous section of the floor upon which I was standing carried me with it into the chamber where Tars Tarkas fought . 
The great Thark stood with his back against an angle of the walls , while facing him in a semi circle a half dozen huge monsters crouched waiting for an opening . 
Sharp talons and cruel fangs had torn leg , arm , and breast literally to ribbons . 
So weak was he from continued exertion and loss of blood that but for the supporting wall I doubt that he even could have stood erect . 
Wait , she whispered , leave them to me , and pushing me advanced , all defenceless and unarmed , upon the snarling banths . 
When quite close to them she spoke a single Martian word in low but peremptory tones . 
For a moment neither of us spoke . 
To our disappointment the panel eluded our every effort to negotiate its secret lock . 
We felt that once beyond it we might look with some little hope of success for a passage to the outside world . 
The fact that the prisoners within were securely chained led us to believe that surely there must be an avenue of escape from the terrible creatures which inhabited this unspeakable place . 
Again and again we turned from one door to another , from the baffling golden panel at one end of the chamber to its mate at the other equally baffling . 
When we had about given up all hope one of the panels turned silently toward us , and the young woman who had led away the banths stood once more beside us . 
I am not of Barsoom , nor have I taken yet the voluntary pilgrimage upon the River Iss . 
I am of another world . 
I am John Carter , Prince of the House of Tardos Mors , Jeddak of Helium . 
Perchance some faint rumour of me may have leaked within the confines of your hellish abode . 
Yes , she replied , naught that passes in the world we have left is unknown here . 
I have heard of you , many years ago . 
The therns have ofttimes wondered whither you had flown , since you had neither taken the pilgrimage , nor could be found upon the face of Barsoom . 
What death ? I asked . 
And to this cruel end I have been condemned . 
It was to be within a few hours , had your advent not caused an interruption of their plans . 
Was it then Holy Therns who felt the weight of John Carter's hand ? I asked . 
Oh , no those whom you laid low are lesser therns but of the same cruel and hateful race . 
The Holy Therns abide upon the outer slopes of these grim hills , facing the broad world from which they harvest their victims and their spoils . 
They are kept to do the bidding of the race of therns to furnish at once their sport and their sustenance . 
The Temple of Issus is , I take it , a heaven within a heaven , I said . 
Let us hope that there it will be meted to the therns as they have meted it here unto others . 
Who knows ? the girl murmured . 
The therns are mortal , she replied . 
And should a plant man die ? I asked . 
We sent several Holy Therns to the silians to day , then , said Tars Tarkas , laughing . 
And so will your death be the more terrible when it comes , said the maiden . 
And come it will you cannot escape . 
One has escaped , centuries ago , I reminded her , and what has been done may be done again . 
It is useless even to try , she answered hopelessly . 
But try we shall , I cried , and you shall go with us , if you wish . 
We have the right to escape if we can , I answered . 
Both the girl and the green warrior stood silent in thought for some moments . 
The former it was who eventually broke the silence . 
Never had I considered the matter in that light before , she said . 
Indeed would I give my life a thousand times if I could but save a single soul from the awful life that I have led in this cruel place . 
Yes , you are right , and I will go with you as far as we can go but I doubt that we ever shall escape . 
I turned an inquiring glance toward the Thark . 
Come , then , said the girl , but do not flatter yourself that you can find no worse place than this within the territory of the therns . 
So saying she swung the secret panel that separated us from the apartment in which I had found her , and we stepped through once more into the presence of the other prisoners . 
Thuvia , the girl whom I had first freed , soon had the others at liberty . 
We distributed the weapons as far as they would go among our followers , giving the firearms to two of the women Thuvia being one so armed . 
Our destination , Thuvia said , was a distant storeroom where arms and ammunition in plenty might be found . 
And even then , O Prince , she cried , the arm of the Holy Thern is long . 
It reaches to every nation of Barsoom . 
His secret temples are hidden in the heart of every community . 
Wherever we go should we escape we shall find that word of our coming has preceded us , and death awaits us before we may pollute the air with our blasphemies . 
It is the one priceless jewel of Barsoom . 
The stone worn by the thern who confronted us was of about the same size as that which I had seen before an inch in diameter I should say . 
It scintillated nine different and distinct rays the seven primary colours of our earthly prism and the two rays which are unknown upon Earth , but whose wondrous beauty is indescribable . 
As the thern saw us his eyes narrowed to two nasty slits . 
What means this , Thuvia ? For answer the girl raised her revolver and fired point blank at him . 
Without a sound he sank to the earth , dead . 
After all these years I am at last revenged . 
O Prince , she cried , Fate is indeed kind to us . 
The way is still difficult , but through this vile thing upon the floor we may yet win to the outer world . 
What of the resemblance ? I asked the girl Thuvia . 
Rising , she advanced to my side and placing the yellow wig over my black hair , crowned me with the golden circlet set with the magnificent gem . 
As I stooped to the dead man to do her bidding I noted that not a hair grew upon his head , which was quite as bald as an egg . 
They are all thus from birth , explained Thuvia noting my surprise . 
The race from which they sprang were crowned with a luxuriant growth of golden hair , but for many ages the present race has been entirely bald . 
In another moment I stood garbed in the habiliments of a Holy Thern . 
In an instant I was asleep . 
CHAPTER V CORRIDORS OF PERIL How long I slept upon the floor of the storeroom I do not know , but it must have been many hours . 
In an instant I was upon my feet . 
A dozen lesser therns confronted us from a large doorway at the opposite end of the storeroom from which we had entered . 
As I gained my feet the therns lowered their wicked rifles , their faces distorted in mingled chagrin , consternation , and alarm . 
Instantly I rose to the occasion . 
What means this ? I cried in tones of fierce anger . 
Ask them their mission here , whispered Thuvia at my elbow . 
What do you here , fellows ? I cried . 
Two from the outer world are at large within the dominions of the therns . 
We sought them at the command of the Father of Therns . 
One was white with black hair , the other a huge green warrior , and here the fellow cast a suspicious glance toward Tars Tarkas . 
And now in your stupidity have you come and killed all but myself , and like to have killed the mighty Sator Throg himself . 
The men looked very sheepish and very scared . 
Had they not better throw these bodies to the plant men and then return to their quarters , O Mighty One ? asked Thuvia of me . 
Yes do as Thuvia bids you , I said . 
That he suspicioned something of the truth I could have sworn but that it was only a suspicion which he did not dare voice was evidenced by his silence . 
The last fleeting glimpse that I obtained of his profile as he passed from my sight without the chamber revealed a cunning smile of triumph upon his lips . 
Only Tars Tarkas , Thuvia , and I were left . 
The fatal marksmanship of the therns had snatched from our companions whatever slender chance they had of gaining the perilous freedom of the world without . 
So soon as the last of the gruesome procession had disappeared the girl urged us to take up our flight once more . 
She , too , had noted the questioning attitude of the thern who had borne Sator Throg away . 
It bodes no good for us , O Prince , she said . 
It seemed that in any event the outcome of our plight must end in death . 
I was refreshed from my sleep , but still weak from loss of blood . 
No medicinal aid seemed possible . 
How I longed for the almost miraculous healing power of the strange salves and lotions of the green Martian women . 
In an hour they would have had me as new . 
Never had a feeling of such utter hopelessness come over me in the face of danger . 
Then the long flowing , yellow locks of the Holy Thern , caught by some vagrant draught , blew about my face . 
What will the fellow do first , Thuvia ? I asked . 
How long will it be before they may return for us ? He will go directly to the Father of Therns , old Matai Shang . 
Then if the Father of Therns puts credence in his story , another hour will see the galleries and chambers , the courts and gardens , filled with searchers . 
What we do then must be done within an hour . 
From there our way will lie within the temples of the therns and across them to the outer court . 
Then the ramparts O Prince , it is hopeless . 
Ten thousand warriors could not hew a way to liberty from out this awful place . 
Since the beginning of time , little by little , stone by stone , have the therns been ever adding to the defences of their stronghold . 
A continuous line of impregnable fortifications circles the outer slopes of the Mountains of Otz . 
Within the temples that lie behind the ramparts a million fighting men are ever ready . 
The courts and gardens are filled with slaves , with women and with children . 
None could go a stone's throw without detection . 
If there is no other way , Thuvia , why dwell upon the difficulties of this . 
Can we not better make the attempt after dark ? asked Tars Tarkas . 
There would seem to be no chance by day . 
There would be a little better chance by night , but even then the ramparts are well guarded possibly better than by day . 
There are fewer abroad in the courts and gardens , though , said Thuvia . 
What is the hour ? I asked . 
It was midnight when you released me from my chains , said Thuvia . 
Two hours later we reached the storeroom . 
There you slept for fourteen hours . 
It must now be nearly sundown again . 
Come , we will go to some nearby window in the cliff and make sure . 
So saying , she led the way through winding corridors until at a sudden turn we came upon an opening which overlooked the Valley Dor . 
At our right the sun was setting , a huge red orb , below the western range of Otz . 
A little below us stood the Holy Thern on watch upon his balcony . 
His scarlet robe of office was pulled tightly about him in anticipation of the cold that comes so suddenly with darkness as the sun sets . 
So rare is the atmosphere of Mars that it absorbs very little heat from the sun . 
During the daylight hours it is always extremely hot at night it is intensely cold . 
Nor does the thin atmosphere refract the sun's rays or diffuse its light as upon Earth . 
There is no twilight on Mars . 
When the great orb of day disappears beneath the horizon the effect is precisely as that of the extinguishing of a single lamp within a chamber . 
From brilliant light you are plunged without warning into utter darkness . 
Then the moons come the mysterious , magic moons of Mars , hurtling like monster meteors low across the face of the planet . 
The declining sun lighted brilliantly the eastern banks of Korus , the crimson sward , the gorgeous forest . 
Beneath the trees we saw feeding many herds of plant men . 
The adults stood aloft upon their toes and their mighty tails , their talons pruning every available leaf and twig . 
As we watched , our eyes wandered to the rolling Iss , which issued from the base of the cliffs beneath us . 
Presently there emerged from the mountain a canoe laden with lost souls from the outer world . 
There were a dozen of them . 
All were of the highly civilized and cultured race of red men who are dominant on Mars . 
The eyes of the herald upon the balcony beneath us fell upon the doomed party as soon as did ours . 
For an instant the brutes stood with stiffly erected ears , then they poured from the grove toward the river's bank , covering the distance with great , ungainly leaps . 
The party had landed and was standing on the sward as the awful horde came in sight . 
There was a brief and futile effort of defence . 
Then silence as the huge , repulsive shapes covered the bodies of their victims and scores of sucking mouths fastened themselves to the flesh of their prey . 
I turned away in disgust . 
Their part is soon over , said Thuvia . 
The great white apes get the flesh when the plant men have drained the arteries . 
Look , they are coming now . 
As I turned my eyes in the direction the girl indicated , I saw a dozen of the great white monsters running across the valley toward the river bank . 
Then the sun went down and darkness that could almost be felt engulfed us . 
Thuvia lost no time in leading us toward the corridor which winds back and forth up through the cliffs toward the surface thousands of feet above the level on which we had been . 
Twice great banths , wandering loose through the galleries , blocked our progress , but in each instance Thuvia spoke a low word of command and the snarling beasts slunk sullenly away . 
If you can dissolve all our obstacles as easily as you master these fierce brutes I can see no difficulties in our way , I said to the girl , smiling . 
How do you do it ? She laughed , and then shuddered . 
I do not quite know , she said . 
When first I came here I angered Sator Throg , because I repulsed him . 
He ordered me to be thrown into one of the great pits in the inner gardens . 
It was filled with banths . 
In my own country I had been accustomed to command . 
Something in my voice , I do not know what , cowed the beasts as they sprang to attack me . 
Instead of tearing me to pieces , as Sator Throg had desired , they fawned at my feet . 
So greatly were Sator Throg and his friends amused by the sight that they kept me to train and handle the terrible creatures . 
I know them all by name . 
There are many of them wandering through these lower regions . 
Many prisoners die here in their chains . 
The banths solve the problem of sanitation , at least in this respect . 
In the gardens and temples above they are kept in pits . 
It is because of the banths that they seldom venture below ground except as their duties call them . 
An idea occurred to me , suggested by what Thuvia had just said . 
Why not take a number of banths and set them loose before us above ground ? I asked . 
It would distract attention from us , I am sure , she said . 
She commenced calling in a low singsong voice that was half purr . 
She continued this as we wound our tedious way through the maze of subterranean passages and chambers . 
Presently soft , padded feet sounded close behind us , and as I turned I saw a pair of great , green eyes shining in the dark shadows at our rear . 
From a diverging tunnel a sinuous , tawny form crept stealthily toward us . 
Low growls and angry snarls assailed our ears on every side as we hastened on and one by one the ferocious creatures answered the call of their mistress . 
She spoke a word to each as it joined us . 
Soon we were entirely surrounded by some fifty of the brutes . 
Two walked close on either side of Thuvia , as guards might walk . 
The sleek sides of others now and then touched my own naked limbs . 
I shall not soon forget it . 
Presently we approached a great chamber more brightly lighted than the corridors . 
Quietly she stole toward the entrance and glanced within . 
Then she motioned us to follow her . 
Constant confinement below ground had wrought odd freaks upon their skins . 
They more resemble corpses than living beings . 
Many are deformed , others maimed , while the majority , Thuvia explained , are sightless . 
Several times we passed the entrances to other chambers similarly peopled , and twice again we were compelled to cross directly through them . 
In others were chained prisoners and beasts . 
Why is it that we see no therns ? I asked of Thuvia . 
They seldom traverse the underworld at night , for then it is that the great banths prowl the dim corridors seeking their prey . 
The therns fear the awful denizens of this cruel and hopeless world that they have fostered and allowed to grow beneath their feet . 
The prisoners even sometimes turn upon them and rend them . 
The thern can never tell from what dark shadow an assassin may spring upon his back . 
By day it is different . 
Then the corridors and chambers are filled with guards passing to and fro slaves from the temples above come by hundreds to the granaries and storerooms . 
You did not see it because I led you not in the beaten tracks , but through roundabout passages seldom used . 
Yet it is possible that we may meet a thern even yet . 
They do occasionally find it necessary to come here after the sun has set . 
Because of this I have moved with such great caution . 
But we reached the upper galleries without detection and presently Thuvia halted us at the foot of a short , steep ascent . 
Above us , she said , is a doorway which opens on to the inner gardens . 
I have brought you thus far . 
From here on for four miles to the outer ramparts our way will be beset by countless dangers . 
Guards patrol the courts , the temples , the gardens . 
Every inch of the ramparts themselves is beneath the eye of a sentry . 
I questioned Thuvia , asking her what enemies the therns could fear in their impregnable fortress . 
We had reached the doorway now and Thuvia was opening it . 
They fear the black pirates of Barsoom , O Prince , she said , from whom may our first ancestors preserve us . 
The door swung open the smell of growing things greeted my nostrils the cool night air blew against my cheek . 
The great banths sniffed the unfamiliar odours , and then with a rush they broke past us with low growls , swarming across the gardens beneath the lurid light of the nearer moon . 
The great Thark's long sword leaped from its scabbard Thuvia shrank shuddering to my side . 
CHAPTER VI THE BLACK PIRATES OF BARSOOM What is it ? I asked of the girl . 
For answer she pointed to the sky . 
I looked , and there , above us , I saw shadowy bodies flitting hither and thither high over temple , court , and garden . 
Almost immediately flashes of light broke from these strange objects . 
There was a roar of musketry , and then answering flashes and roars from temple and rampart . 
The black pirates of Barsoom , O Prince , said Thuvia . 
In great circles the air craft of the marauders swept lower and lower toward the defending forces of the therns . 
Volley after volley they vomited upon the temple guards volley on volley crashed through the thin air toward the fleeting and illusive fliers . 
As the pirates swooped closer toward the ground , thern soldiery poured from the temples into the gardens and courts . 
The sight of them in the open brought a score of fliers darting toward us from all directions . 
The therns fired upon them through shields affixed to their rifles , but on , steadily on , came the grim , black craft . 
They were small fliers for the most part , built for two to three men . 
A few larger ones there were , but these kept high aloft dropping bombs upon the temples from their keel batteries . 
Scarcely waiting for their craft to touch , the creatures manning them leaped among the therns with the fury of demons . 
Such fighting ! Never had I witnessed its like before . 
Beneath the brilliant light of Mars' two glorious moons the whole scene presented itself in vivid distinctness . 
The golden haired , white skinned therns battling with desperate courage in hand to hand conflict with their ebony skinned foemen . 
The black pirates interested me immensely . 
I had heard vague rumours , little more than legends they were , during my former life on Mars but never had I seen them , nor talked with one who had . 
They were popularly supposed to inhabit the lesser moon , from which they descended upon Barsoom at long intervals . 
Where they visited they wrought the most horrible atrocities , and when they left carried away with them firearms and ammunition , and young girls as prisoners . 
These latter , the rumour had it , they sacrificed to some terrible god in an orgy which ended in the eating of their victims . 
I had an excellent opportunity to examine them , as the strife occasionally brought now one and now another close to where I stood . 
They were large men , possibly six feet and over in height . 
The physical structure of their bodies seemed identical with those of the therns , the red men , and my own . 
But if their bodies are divine , their hearts , apparently , are quite the reverse . 
Never did I witness such a malign lust for blood as these demons of the outer air evinced in their mad battle with the therns . 
All about us in the garden lay their sinister craft , which the therns for some reason , then unaccountable to me , made no effort to injure . 
Now and again a black warrior would rush from a near by temple bearing a young woman in his arms . 
Straight for his flier he would leap while those of his comrades who fought near by would rush to cover his escape . 
As the fighting receded from our position for a moment , Thuvia turned toward me with a question . 
From time immemorial the black pirates of Barsoom have preyed upon the Holy Therns . 
Yet they never carry their expeditions to a point , as one might readily believe it was in their power to do , where the extermination of the race of therns is threatened . 
Why don't they jump in and destroy these fliers ? I asked . 
That would soon put a stop to the attacks , or at least the blacks would scarce be so bold . 
Why , see how perfectly unguarded they leave their craft , as though they were lying safe in their own hangars at home . 
The therns do not dare . 
The therns know that they live at all only by the sufferance of the black men . 
They were near to extermination that once and they will not venture risking it again . 
As she ceased talking a new element was instilled into the conflict . 
It came from a source equally unlooked for by either thern or pirate . 
A horrid scream of bestial rage broke from the banth as he felt warm flesh beneath his powerful talons . 
As though his cry was but a signal to the others , the entire great pack hurled themselves among the fighters . 
Panic reigned in an instant . 
Thern and black man turned alike against the common enemy , for the banths showed no partiality toward either . 
The awful beasts bore down a hundred men by the mere weight of their great bodies as they hurled themselves into the thick of the fight . 
Leaping and clawing , they mowed down the warriors with their powerful paws , turning for an instant to rend their victims with frightful fangs . 
The therns were so engaged with their terrible assailants that now , if ever , escape should be comparatively easy . 
I turned to search for an opening through the contending hordes . 
If we could but reach the ramparts we might find that the pirates somewhere had thinned the guarding forces and left a way open to us to the world without . 
As my eyes wandered about the garden , the sight of the hundreds of air craft lying unguarded around us suggested the simplest avenue to freedom . 
Why it had not occurred to me before ! I was thoroughly familiar with the mechanism of every known make of flier on Barsoom . 
For nine years I had sailed and fought with the navy of Helium . 
I had raced through space on the tiny one man air scout and I had commanded the greatest battleship that ever had floated in the thin air of dying Mars . 
To think , with me , is to act . 
Grasping Thuvia by the arm , I whispered to Tars Tarkas to follow me . 
Quickly we glided toward a small flier which lay furthest from the battling warriors . 
Another instant found us huddled on the tiny deck . 
My hand was on the starting lever . 
The craft swayed slightly but she did not move . 
Then a new cry of warning broke upon our ears . 
Turning , I saw a dozen black pirates dashing toward us from the melee . 
With shrieks of rage the demons sprang for us . 
With frenzied insistence I continued to press the little button which should have sent us racing out into space , but still the vessel refused to budge . 
Then it came to me the reason that she would not rise . 
We had stumbled upon a two man flier . 
Its ray tanks were charged only with sufficient repulsive energy to lift two ordinary men . 
The Thark's great weight was anchoring us to our doom . 
The blacks were nearly upon us . 
There was not an instant to be lost in hesitation or doubt . 
I pressed the button far in and locked it . 
Then I set the lever at high speed and as the blacks came yelling upon us I slipped from the craft's deck and with drawn long sword met the attack . 
At the same moment a girl's shriek rang out behind me and an instant later , as the blacks fell upon me . 
I knew though that my ruse had worked and that temporarily at least Thuvia and Tars Tarkas were safe , and the means of escape was theirs . 
My seething blade wove a net of death about me . 
I knew though that it was but a question of minutes before their greater numbers would wear me down , or get around my guard . 
I must go down eventually to certain death before them . 
I shuddered at the thought of it , dying thus in this terrible place where no word of my end ever could reach my Dejah Thoris . 
Dying at the hands of nameless black men in the gardens of the cruel therns . 
Then my old time spirit reasserted itself . 
The fighting blood of my Virginian sires coursed hot through my veins . 
The fierce blood lust and the joy of battle surged over me . 
The fighting smile that has brought consternation to a thousand foemen touched my lips . 
I put the thought of death out of my mind , and fell upon my antagonists with fury that those who escaped will remember to their dying day . 
That others would press to the support of those who faced me I knew , so even as I fought I kept my wits at work , searching for an avenue of escape . 
It came from an unexpected quarter out of the black night behind me . 
I had just disarmed a huge fellow who had given me a desperate struggle , and for a moment the blacks stood back for a breathing spell . 
They eyed me with malignant fury , yet withal there was a touch of respect in their demeanour . 
Thern , said one , you fight like a Dator . 
But for your detestable yellow hair and your white skin you would be an honour to the First Born of Barsoom . 
But just at that moment a heavy object smote me a resounding whack between my shoulders that nearly felled me to the ground . 
As I turned to meet this new enemy an object passed over my shoulder , striking one of my assailants squarely in the face and knocking him senseless to the sward . 
At the same instant I saw that the thing that had struck us was the trailing anchor of a rather fair sized air vessel possibly a ten man cruiser . 
The ship was floating slowly above us , not more than fifty feet over our heads . 
Instantly the one chance for escape that it offered presented itself to me . 
The vessel was slowly rising and now the anchor was beyond the blacks who faced me and several feet above their heads . 
With a bound that left them gaping in wide eyed astonishment I sprang completely over them . 
A second leap carried me just high enough to grasp the now rapidly receding anchor . 
Presently the vessel veered toward the west and then swung gracefully to the south . 
Carefully I climbed to a sitting posture across the anchor's arms . 
I wondered if by chance the vessel might be deserted . 
Or possibly it might belong to a friendly people , and have wandered by accident almost within the clutches of the pirates and the therns . 
The fact that it was retreating from the scene of battle lent colour to this hypothesis . 
But I decided to know positively , and at once , so , with the greatest caution , I commenced to climb slowly up the anchor chain toward the deck above me . 
One hand had just reached for the vessel's rail and found it when a fierce black face was thrust over the side and eyes filled with triumphant hate looked into mine . 
CHAPTER VII A FAIR GODDESS For an instant the black pirate and I remained motionless , glaring into each other's eyes . 
Simultaneously my free hand shot out for the black throat , just within reach , and the ebony finger tightened on the trigger . 
The pirate's hissing , Die , cursed thern , was half choked in his windpipe by my clutching fingers . 
The hammer fell with a futile click upon an empty chamber . 
Before he could fire again I had pulled him so far over the edge of the deck that he was forced to drop his firearm and clutch the rail with both hands . 
My grasp upon his throat effectually prevented any outcry , and so we struggled in grim silence he to tear away from my hold , I to drag him over to his death . 
His face was taking on a livid hue , his eyes were bulging from their sockets . 
It was evident to him that he soon must die unless he tore loose from the steel fingers that were choking the life from him . 
That little second was all that I awaited . 
With one mighty downward surge I swept him clear of the deck . 
Instead I held grimly to him , choking , ever choking , while his frantic struggles dragged me lower and lower toward the end of the chain . 
Gradually his contortions became spasmodic , lessening by degrees until they ceased entirely . 
Then I released my hold upon him and in an instant he was swallowed by the black shadows far below . 
Again I climbed to the ship's rail . 
This time I succeeded in raising my eyes to the level of the deck , where I could take a careful survey of the conditions immediately confronting me . 
Huddled close to the base of a rapid fire gun was a young white girl , securely bound . 
Her eyes were widespread in an expression of horrified anticipation and fixed directly upon me as I came in sight above the edge of the deck . 
Unutterable relief instantly filled them as they fell upon the mystic jewel which sparkled in the centre of my stolen headpiece . 
Instead her eyes warned me to beware the sleeping figures that surrounded her . 
Noiselessly I gained the deck . 
The girl nodded to me to approach her . 
As I bent low she whispered to me to release her . 
I can aid you , she said , and you will need all the aid available when they awaken . 
Some of them will awake in Korus , I replied smiling . 
She caught the meaning of my words , and the cruelty of her answering smile horrified me . 
Give me a revolver , she whispered . 
I can use that upon those your sword does not silence in time . 
I did as she bid . 
Then I turned toward the distasteful work that lay before me . 
This was no time for fine compunctions , nor for a chivalry that these cruel demons would neither appreciate nor reciprocate . 
Stealthily I approached the nearest sleeper . 
When he awoke he was well on his journey to the bosom of Korus . 
His piercing shriek as consciousness returned to him came faintly up to us from the black depths beneath . 
The second awoke as I touched him , and , though I succeeded in hurling him from the cruiser's deck , his wild cry of alarm brought the remaining pirates to their feet . 
There were five of them . 
As they arose the girl's revolver spoke in sharp staccato and one sank back to the deck again to rise no more . 
The others rushed madly upon me with drawn swords . 
The girl evidently dared not fire for fear of wounding me , but I saw her sneak stealthily and cat like toward the flank of the attackers . 
Then they were on me . 
For a few minutes I experienced some of the hottest fighting I had ever passed through . 
The quarters were too small for foot work . 
It was stand your ground and give and take . 
At first I took considerably more than I gave , but presently I got beneath one fellow's guard and had the satisfaction of seeing him collapse upon the deck . 
The others redoubled their efforts . 
The crashing of their blades upon mine raised a terrific din that might have been heard for miles through the silent night . 
Sparks flew as steel smote steel , and then there was the dull and sickening sound of a shoulder bone parting beneath the keen edge of my Martian sword . 
Three now faced me , but the girl was working her way to a point that would soon permit her to reduce the number by one at least . 
Then things happened with such amazing rapidity that I can scarce comprehend even now all that took place in that brief instant . 
The three rushed me with the evident purpose of forcing me back the few steps that would carry my body over the rail into the void below . 
At the same instant the girl fired and my sword arm made two moves . 
Disarmed myself , I now faced my remaining foeman , whose own sword lay somewhere thousands of feet below us , lost in the Lost Sea . 
The new conditions seemed to please my adversary , for a smile of satisfaction bared his gleaming teeth as he rushed at me bare handed . 
The great muscles which rolled beneath his glossy black hide evidently assured him that here was easy prey , not worth the trouble of drawing the dagger from his harness . 
I let him come almost upon me . 
Then I ducked beneath his outstretched arms , at the same time sidestepping to the right . 
Pivoting on my left toe , I swung a terrific right to his jaw , and , like a felled ox , he dropped in his tracks . 
A low , silvery laugh rang out behind me . 
You are no thern , said the sweet voice of my companion , for all your golden locks or the harness of Sator Throg . 
Never lived there upon all Barsoom before one who could fight as you have fought this night . 
Who are you ? I am John Carter , Prince of the House of Tardos Mors , Jeddak of Helium , I replied . 
And whom , I added , has the honour of serving been accorded me ? She hesitated a moment before speaking . 
Then she asked You are no thern . 
Are you an enemy of the therns ? I have been in the territory of the therns for a day and a half . 
During that entire time my life has been in constant danger . 
I have been harassed and persecuted . 
Armed men and fierce beasts have been set upon me . 
I had no quarrel with the therns before , but can you wonder that I feel no great love for them now ? I have spoken . 
She looked at me intently for several minutes before she replied . 
It was as though she were attempting to read my inmost soul , to judge my character and my standards of chivalry in that long drawn , searching gaze . 
Apparently the inventory satisfied her . 
At that moment I noticed that the black I had dropped with my fist was commencing to show signs of returning consciousness . 
I sprang to his side . 
Stripping his harness from him I securely bound his hands behind his back , and after similarly fastening his feet tied him to a heavy gun carriage . 
Why not the simpler way ? asked Phaidor . 
What 'simpler way' ? I replied . 
With a slight shrug of her lovely shoulders she made a gesture with her hands personating the casting of something over the craft's side . 
I am no murderer , I said . 
I kill in self defence only . 
She looked at me narrowly . 
Then she puckered those divine brows of hers , and shook her head . 
Well , neither had my own Dejah Thoris been able to understand what to her had seemed a foolish and dangerous policy toward enemies . 
Upon Barsoom , quarter is neither asked nor given , and each dead man means so much more of the waning resources of this dying planet to be divided amongst those who survive . 
I think that Phaidor regretted the thrill that the spectacle would have afforded her rather than the fact that my decision left another enemy alive to threaten us . 
The man had now regained full possession of his faculties , and was regarding us intently from where he lay bound upon the deck . 
He was a handsome fellow , clean limbed and powerful , with an intelligent face and features of such exquisite chiselling that Adonis himself might have envied him . 
The vessel , unguided , had been moving slowly across the valley but now I thought it time to take the helm and direct her course . 
Only in a very general way could I guess the location of the Valley Dor . 
That a northerly course would quickest lead me toward the more settled portions of the planet immediately decided the direction that I should steer . 
Beneath my hand the cruiser swung gracefully about . 
Then the button which controlled the repulsive rays sent us soaring far out into space . 
With speed lever pulled to the last notch , we raced toward the north as we rose ever farther and farther above that terrible valley of death . 
No sound of conflict reached our ears , for in the rarefied atmosphere of our great altitude no sound wave could penetrate they were dissipated in thin air far below us . 
The girl , Phaidor , and the black pirate kept their eyes glued upon me . 
At length the girl spoke . 
Unconsciousness comes quickly at this altitude , she said quietly . 
Unless you are inviting death for us all you had best drop , and that quickly . 
There was no fear in her voice . 
It was as one might say You had better carry an umbrella . 
It is going to rain . 
I dropped the vessel quickly to a lower level . 
Nor was I a moment too soon . 
The black , too , was unconscious , while I , myself , retained my senses , I think , only by sheer will . 
The one on whom all responsibility rests is apt to endure the most . 
We were swinging along low above the foothills of the Otz . 
It was a close call , she said . 
It has taught me two things though , I replied . 
What ? That even Phaidor , daughter of the Master of Life and Death , is mortal , I said smiling . 
There is immortality only in Issus , she replied . 
And Issus is for the race of therns alone . 
I caught a fleeting grin passing across the features of the black as he heard her words . 
I did not then understand why he smiled . 
Later I was to learn , and she , too , in a most horrible manner . 
If the other thing you have just learned , she continued , has led to as erroneous deductions as the first you are little richer in knowledge than you were before . 
The other , I replied , is that our dusky friend here does not hail from the nearer moon he was like to have died at a few thousand feet above Barsoom . 
Had we continued the five thousand miles that lie between Thuria and the planet he would have been but the frozen memory of a man . 
Phaidor looked at the black in evident astonishment . 
If you are not of Thuria , then where ? she asked . 
He shrugged his shoulders and turned his eyes elsewhere , but did not reply . 
The girl stamped her little foot in a peremptory manner . 
The daughter of Matai Shang is not accustomed to having her queries remain unanswered , she said . 
One of the lesser breed should feel honoured that a member of the holy race that was born to inherit life eternal should deign even to notice him . 
Again the black smiled that wicked , knowing smile . 
Xodar , Dator of the First Born of Barsoom , is accustomed to give commands , not to receive them , replied the black pirate . 
Then , turning to me , What are your intentions concerning me ? I intend taking you both back to Helium , I said . 
No harm will come to you . 
Are you of Helium ? he asked . 
I am a Prince of the House of Tardos Mors , Jeddak of Helium , I replied , but I am not of Barsoom . 
I am of another world . 
Xodar looked at me intently for a few moments . 
I can well believe that you are not of Barsoom , he said at length . 
None of this world could have bested eight of the First Born single handed . 
But how is it that you wear the golden hair and the jewelled circlet of a Holy Thern ? He emphasized the word holy with a touch of irony . 
I had forgotten them , I said . 
They are the spoils of conquest , and with a sweep of my hand I removed the disguise from my head . 
When the black's eyes fell on my close cropped black hair they opened in astonishment . 
Evidently he had looked for the bald pate of a thern . 
You are indeed of another world , he said , a touch of awe in his voice . 
With the skin of a thern , the black hair of a First Born and the muscles of a dozen Dators it was no disgrace even for Xodar to acknowledge your supremacy . 
A thing he could never do were you a Barsoomian , he added . 
You are travelling several laps ahead of me , my friend , I interrupted . 
My race is the oldest on the planet . 
We trace our lineage , unbroken , direct to the Tree of Life which flourished in the centre of the Valley Dor twenty three million years ago . 
For countless ages the fruit of this tree underwent the gradual changes of evolution , passing by degrees from true plant life to a combination of plant and animal . 
Then , with the development of perceptions came a comparison of them judgments were reached and compared , and thus reason and the power to reason were born upon Barsoom . 
Many forms of life came and went upon the Tree of Life , but still all were attached to the parent plant by stems of varying lengths . 
The buds from which the plant men blossomed resembled large nuts about a foot in diameter , divided by double partition walls into four sections . 
Thus as time went on , all Barsoom was covered with these imprisoned creatures . 
Countless billions died before the first black man broke through his prison walls into the light of day . 
Prompted by curiosity , he broke open other shells and the peopling of Barsoom commenced . 
The therns , and he smiled maliciously as he spoke , are but the result of ages of evolution from the pure white ape of antiquity . 
They are a lower order still . 
There is but one race of true and immortal humans on Barsoom . 
It is the race of black men . 
Now their bisexuality permits them to reproduce themselves after the manner of true plants , but otherwise they have progressed but little in all the ages of their existence . 
They have no sense of self preservation and so are entirely without fear in the face of danger . 
That is why they are such terrible antagonists in combat . 
I wondered why the black man took such pains to discourse thus at length to enemies upon the genesis of life Barsoomian . 
It seemed a strangely inopportune moment for a proud member of a proud race to unbend in casual conversation with a captor . 
Especially in view of the fact that the black still lay securely bound upon the deck . 
It was the faintest straying of his eye beyond me for the barest fraction of a second that explained his motive for thus dragging out my interest in his truly absorbing story . 
He lay a little forward of where I stood at the levers , and thus he faced the stern of the vessel as he addressed me . 
It was at the end of his description of the plant men that I caught his eye fixed momentarily upon something behind me . 
Nor could I be mistaken in the swift gleam of triumph that brightened those dark orbs for an instant . 
Some time before I had reduced our speed , for we had left the Valley Dor many miles astern , and I felt comparatively safe . 
I turned an apprehensive glance behind me , and the sight that I saw froze the new born hope of freedom that had been springing up within me . 
A great battleship , forging silent and unlighted through the dark night , loomed close astern . 
CHAPTER VIII THE DEPTHS OF OMEAN Now I realized why the black pirate had kept me engrossed with his strange tale . 
I was too old a hand in aerial warfare to be at a loss now for the right manoeuvre . 
Simultaneously I reversed the engines and dropped the little vessel a sheer hundred feet . 
Above my head I could see the dangling forms of the boarding party as the battleship raced over us . 
Then I rose at a sharp angle , throwing my speed lever to its last notch . 
Like a bolt from a crossbow my splendid craft shot its steel prow straight at the whirring propellers of the giant above us . 
If I could but touch them the huge bulk would be disabled for hours and escape once more possible . 
At the same instant the sun shot above the horizon , disclosing a hundred grim , black faces peering over the stern of the battleship upon us . 
At sight of us a shout of rage went up from a hundred throats . 
Orders were shouted , but it was too late to save the giant propellers , and with a crash we rammed them . 
Instantly with the shock of impact I reversed my engine , but my prow was wedged in the hole it had made in the battleship's stern . 
Only a second I hung there before tearing away , but that second was amply long to swarm my deck with black devils . 
In the first place there was no room to fight . 
We were simply submerged by numbers . 
Then as swords menaced me a command from Xodar stayed the hands of his fellows . 
Secure them , he said , but do not injure them . 
Several of the pirates already had released Xodar . 
He now personally attended to my disarming and saw that I was properly bound . 
At least he thought that the binding was secure . 
It would have been had I been a Martian , but I had to smile at the puny strands that confined my wrists . 
When the time came I could snap them as they had been cotton string . 
The girl they bound also , and then they fastened us together . 
In the meantime they had brought our craft alongside the disabled battleship , and soon we were transported to the latter's deck . 
Fully a thousand black men manned the great engine of destruction . 
Her decks were crowded with them as they pressed forward as far as discipline would permit to get a glimpse of their captives . 
The girl's beauty elicited many brutal comments and vulgar jests . 
It was evident that these self thought supermen were far inferior to the red men of Barsoom in refinement and in chivalry . 
My close cropped black hair and thern complexion were the subjects of much comment . 
When Xodar told his fellow nobles of my fighting ability and strange origin they crowded about me with numerous questions . 
Without exception the blacks were handsome men , and well built . 
The officers were conspicuous through the wondrous magnificence of their resplendent trappings . 
Many harnesses were so encrusted with gold , platinum , silver and precious stones as to entirely hide the leather beneath . 
The harness of the commanding officer was a solid mass of diamonds . 
Against the ebony background of his skin they blazed out with a peculiarly accentuated effulgence . 
The whole scene was enchanting . 
Phaidor and I were taken below decks , where , still fast bound , we were thrown into a small compartment which contained a single port hole . 
As our escort left us they barred the door behind them . 
We could hear the men working on the broken propellers , and from the port hole we could see that the vessel was drifting lazily toward the south . 
For some time neither of us spoke . 
Each was occupied with his own thoughts . 
For my part I was wondering as to the fate of Tars Tarkas and the girl , Thuvia . 
How I wished that I might have accompanied them . 
It seemed to me that I could not fail to impress upon the intelligent red men of Barsoom the wicked deception that a cruel and senseless superstition had foisted upon them . 
Tardos Mors would believe me . 
Of that I was positive . 
And that he would have the courage of his convictions my knowledge of his character assured me . 
Dejah Thoris would believe me . 
Not a doubt as to that entered my head . 
Then there were a thousand of my red and green warrior friends whom I knew would face eternal damnation gladly for my sake . 
Like Tars Tarkas , where I led they would follow . 
My only danger lay in that should I ever escape the black pirates it might be to fall into the hands of unfriendly red or green men . 
Then it would mean short shrift for me . 
Well , there seemed little to worry about on that score , for the likelihood of my ever escaping the blacks was extremely remote . 
The girl and I were linked together by a rope which permitted us to move only about three or four feet from each other . 
When we had entered the compartment we had seated ourselves upon a low bench beneath the porthole . 
The bench was the only furniture of the room . 
It was of sorapus wood . 
The floor , ceiling and walls were of carborundum aluminum , a light , impenetrable composition extensively utilized in the construction of Martian fighting ships . 
As I had sat meditating upon the future my eyes had been riveted upon the port hole which was just level with them as I sat . 
Suddenly I looked toward Phaidor . 
She was regarding me with a strange expression I had not before seen upon her face . 
She was very beautiful then . 
Instantly her white lids veiled her eyes , and I thought I discovered a delicate flush tingeing her cheek . 
Evidently she was embarrassed at having been detected in the act of staring at a lesser creature , I thought . 
Do you find the study of the lower orders interesting ? I asked , laughing . 
She looked up again with a nervous but relieved little laugh . 
Oh very , she said , especially when they have such excellent profiles . 
It was my turn to flush , but I did not . 
I felt that she was poking fun at me , and I admired a brave heart that could look for humour on the road to death , and so I laughed with her . 
Do you know where we are going ? she said . 
To solve the mystery of the eternal hereafter , I imagine , I replied . 
I am going to a worse fate than that , she said , with a little shudder . 
That they never take a man prisoner lends strength to the belief that the fate of the girls they steal is worse than death . 
Is it not a just retribution ? I could not help but ask . 
We therns are a holy race . 
It is an honour to a lesser creature to be a slave among us . 
But do you not by every means encourage the superstition among those of the outside world ? I argued . 
That is the wickedest of your deeds . 
Can you tell me why you foster the cruel deception ? All life on Barsoom , she said , is created solely for the support of the race of therns . 
She looked at me in pitying commiseration for my ignorance . 
Truly we eat the flesh of the lower orders . 
Do not you also ? The flesh of beasts , yes , I replied , but not the flesh of man . 
As man may eat of the flesh of beasts , so may gods eat of the flesh of man . 
The Holy Therns are the gods of Barsoom . 
I was disgusted and I imagine that I showed it . 
And , she hesitated , perhaps we shall find a way to keep you as as one of us . 
Again her eyes dropped to the floor , and a faint colour suffused her cheek . 
I could not understand her meaning nor did I for a long time . 
Dejah Thoris was wont to say that in some things I was a veritable simpleton , and I guess that she was right . 
Also should I devote my life to the extermination of the hideous plant men and their horrible companions , the great white apes . 
She looked at me really horror struck . 
No , no , she cried , you must not say such terribly sacrilegious things you must not even think them . 
Should they ever guess that you entertained such frightful thoughts , should we chance to regain the temples of the therns , they would mete out a frightful death to you . 
Not even my my Again she flushed , and started over . 
Not even I could save you . 
She was even more steeped in superstition than the Martians of the outer world . 
They only worshipped a beautiful hope for a life of love and peace and happiness in the hereafter . 
The therns worshipped the hideous plant men and the apes , or at least they reverenced them as the abodes of the departed spirits of their own dead . 
At this point the door of our prison opened to admit Xodar . 
He smiled pleasantly at me , and when he smiled his expression was kindly anything but cruel or vindictive . 
Since you cannot escape under any circumstances , he said , I cannot see the necessity for keeping you confined below . 
I will cut your bonds and you may come on deck . 
You will witness something very interesting , and as you never shall return to the outer world it will do no harm to permit you to see it . 
You will see what no other than the First Born and their slaves know the existence of the subterranean entrance to the Holy Land , to the real heaven of Barsoom . 
It will be an excellent lesson for this daughter of the therns , he added , for she shall see the Temple of Issus , and Issus , perchance , shall embrace her . 
What blasphemy is this , dog of a pirate ? she cried . 
Issus would wipe out your entire breed an' you ever came within sight of her temple . 
You have much to learn , thern , replied Xodar , with an ugly smile , nor do I envy you the manner in which you will learn it . 
As we came on deck I saw to my surprise that the vessel was passing over a great field of snow and ice . 
As far as the eye could reach in any direction naught else was visible . 
There could be but one solution to the mystery . 
We were above the south polar ice cap . 
Only at the poles of Mars is there ice or snow upon the planet . 
No sign of life appeared below us . 
Evidently we were too far south even for the great fur bearing animals which the Martians so delight in hunting . 
Xodar was at my side as I stood looking out over the ship's rail . 
What course ? I asked him . 
A little west of south , he replied . 
You will see the Otz Valley directly . 
We shall skirt it for a few hundred miles . 
The Otz Valley ! I exclaimed but , man , is not there where lie the domains of the therns from which I but just escaped ? Yes , answered Xodar . 
You crossed this ice field last night in the long chase that you led us . 
The Otz Valley lies in a mighty depression at the south pole . 
It is sunk thousands of feet below the level of the surrounding country , like a great round bowl . 
A hundred miles from its northern boundary rise the Otz Mountains which circle the inner Valley of Dor , in the exact centre of which lies the Lost Sea of Korus . 
On the shore of this sea stands the Golden Temple of Issus in the Land of the First Born . 
It is there that we are bound . 
As I looked I commenced to realize why it was that in all the ages only one had escaped from the Valley Dor . 
My only wonder was that even the one had been successful . 
To cross this frozen , wind swept waste of bleak ice alone and on foot would be impossible . 
Only by air boat could the journey be made , I finished aloud . 
It was thus that one did escape the therns in bygone times but none has ever escaped the First Born , said Xodar , with a touch of pride in his voice . 
We had now reached the southernmost extremity of the great ice barrier . 
Once we passed far above what seemed to be a deep canyon like rift stretching from the ice wall on the north across the valley as far as the eye could reach . 
That is the bed of the River Iss , said Xodar . 
It runs far beneath the ice field , and below the level of the Valley Otz , but its canyon is open here . 
Presently I descried what I took to be a village , and pointing it out to Xodar asked him what it might be . 
It is a village of lost souls , he answered , laughing . 
This strip between the ice barrier and the mountains is considered neutral ground . 
Some turn off from their voluntary pilgrimage down the Iss , and , scaling the awful walls of its canyon below us , stop in the valley . 
Also a slave now and then escapes from the therns and makes his way hither . 
There are several villages of them , but they have increased in numbers but little in many years since they are always warring among themselves . 
It was not high and seemed to have a flat top . 
Xodar had left us to attend to some duty on the vessel , and Phaidor and I stood alone beside the rail . 
The girl had not once spoken since we had been brought to the deck . 
Is what he has been telling me true ? I asked her . 
In part , yes , she answered . 
That about the outer valley is true , but what he says of the location of the Temple of Issus in the centre of his country is false . 
If it is not false she hesitated . 
Oh it cannot be true , it cannot be true . 
It would be a stern and awful retribution , Phaidor but a just one . 
I cannot believe it , she said . 
As we neared the dark , truncated cone the vessel's speed was diminished until we barely moved . 
Then we topped the crest of the mountain and below us I saw yawning the mouth of a huge circular well , the bottom of which was lost in inky blackness . 
The diameter of this enormous pit was fully a thousand feet . 
The walls were smooth and appeared to be composed of a black , basaltic rock . 
For a moment the vessel hovered motionless directly above the centre of the gaping void , then slowly she began to settle into the black chasm . 
For quite half an hour we descended and then the shaft terminated abruptly in the dome of a mighty subterranean world . 
Below us rose and fell the billows of a buried sea . 
A phosphorescent radiance illuminated the scene . 
Thousands of ships dotted the bosom of the ocean . 
Little islands rose here and there to support the strange and colourless vegetation of this strange world . 
Slowly and with majestic grace the battleship dropped until she rested on the water . 
Her great propellers had been drawn and housed during our descent of the shaft and in their place had been run out the smaller but more powerful water propellers . 
As these commenced to revolve the ship took up its journey once more , riding the new element as buoyantly and as safely as she had the air . 
Phaidor and I were dumbfounded . 
Neither had either heard or dreamed that such a world existed beneath the surface of Barsoom . 
Nearly all the vessels we saw were war craft . 
There were a few lighters and barges , but none of the great merchantmen such as ply the upper air between the cities of the outer world . 
Here is the harbour of the navy of the First Born , said a voice behind us , and turning we saw Xodar watching us with an amused smile on his lips . 
This sea , he continued , is larger than Korus . 
It receives the waters of the lesser sea above it . 
A new light burst on me with this explanation . 
Never had their learned men been able to fathom the secret of the source of this enormous volume of water . 
As ages passed they had simply come to accept it as a matter of course and ceased to question its origin . 
We passed several islands on which were strangely shaped circular buildings , apparently roofless , and pierced midway between the ground and their tops with small , heavily barred windows . 
They bore the earmarks of prisons , which were further accentuated by the armed guards who squatted on low benches without , or patrolled the short beach lines . 
Few of these islets contained over an acre of ground , but presently we sighted a much larger one directly ahead . 
This proved to be our destination , and the great ship was soon made fast against the steep shore . 
Xodar signalled us to follow him and with a half dozen officers and men we left the battleship and approached a large oval structure a couple of hundred yards from the shore . 
You shall soon see Issus , said Xodar to Phaidor . 
The few prisoners we take are presented to her . 
Occasionally she selects slaves from among them to replenish the ranks of her handmaidens . 
None serves Issus above a single year , and there was a grim smile on the black's lips that lent a cruel and sinister meaning to his simple statement . 
Phaidor , though loath to believe that Issus was allied to such as these , had commenced to entertain doubts and fears . 
The building which we now entered was entirely roofless . 
In its centre was a long tank of water , set below the level of the floor like the swimming pool of a natatorium . 
Near one side of the pool floated an odd looking black object . 
Whether it were some strange monster of these buried waters , or a queer raft , I could not at once perceive . 
We were soon to know , however , for as we reached the edge of the pool directly above the thing , Xodar cried out a few words in a strange tongue . 
Immediately a hatch cover was raised from the surface of the object , and a black seaman sprang from the bowels of the strange craft . 
Transmit to your officer , he said , the commands of Dator Xodar . 
Say to him that Dator Xodar , with officers and men , escorting two prisoners , would be transported to the gardens of Issus beside the Golden Temple . 
Blessed be the shell of thy first ancestor , most noble Dator , replied the man . 
A moment later an officer resplendent in the gorgeous trappings of his rank appeared on deck and welcomed Xodar to the vessel , and in the latter's wake we filed aboard and below . 
The cabin in which we found ourselves extended entirely across the ship , having port holes on either side below the water line . 
Where can we be going in such a tiny pool of water ? asked Phaidor . 
Not up , I replied , for I noticed particularly that while the building is roofless it is covered with a strong metal grating . 
Then where ? she asked again . 
From the appearance of the craft I judge we are going down , I replied . 
Presently the sensation of sinking became very apparent . 
We were going down swiftly . 
Now we could hear the water rushing past the port holes , and in the dim light that filtered through them to the water beyond the swirling eddies were plainly visible . 
Save me ! she whispered . 
Save me and your every wish shall be granted . 
Anything within the power of the Holy Therns to give will be yours . 
Phaidor she stumbled a little here , and then in a very low voice , Phaidor already is yours . 
I felt very sorry for the poor child , and placed my hand over hers where it rested on my arm . 
So I was quite at a loss as to what to do or say . 
A thousand times rather face the wild hordes of the dead sea bottoms than meet the eyes of this beautiful young girl and tell her the thing that I must tell her . 
But there was nothing else to be done , and so I did it . 
Very clumsily too , I fear . 
Gently I unclasped her hands from about my neck , and still holding them in mine I told her the story of my love for Dejah Thoris . 
That of all the women of two worlds that I had known and admired during my long life she alone had I loved . 
The tale did not seem to please her . 
Like a tigress she sprang , panting , to her feet . 
Her beautiful face was distorted in an expression of horrible malevolence . 
Her eyes fairly blazed into mine . 
Dog of a blasphemer ! Think you that Phaidor , daughter of Matai Shang , supplicates ? She commands . 
What to her is your puny outer world passion for the vile creature you chose in your other life ? Phaidor has glorified you with her love , and you have spurned her . 
Ten thousand unthinkably atrocious deaths could not atone for the affront that you have put upon me . 
The thing that you call Dejah Thoris shall die the most horrible of them all . 
You have sealed the warrant for her doom . 
And you ! You shall be the meanest slave in the service of the goddess you have attempted to humiliate . 
Tortures and ignominies shall be heaped upon you until you grovel at my feet asking the boon of death . 
In my gracious generosity I shall at length grant your prayer , and from the high balcony of the Golden Cliffs I shall watch the great white apes tear you asunder . 
She had it all fixed up . 
The whole lovely programme from start to finish . 
It amazed me to think that one so divinely beautiful could at the same time be so fiendishly vindictive . 
Down , down we continued to sink until the heavy glass of the port holes became noticeably warm from the heat of the water without . 
Evidently we were very far beneath the surface crust of Mars . 
Presently our downward motion ceased , and I could hear the propellers swirling through the water at our stern and forcing us ahead at high speed . 
After a few minutes the propellers ceased their whirring . 
We came to a full stop , and then commenced to rise swiftly toward the surface . 
Soon the light from without increased and we came to a stop . 
Xodar entered the cabin with his men . 
Come , he said , and we followed him through the hatchway which had been opened by one of the seamen . 
Around the edge of the pool was a level platform , and then the walls of the cave rose perpendicularly for a few feet to arch toward the centre of the low roof . 
The walls about the ledge were pierced with a number of entrances to dimly lighted passageways . 
The cage proved to be one of the common types of elevator cars that I had seen in other parts of Barsoom . 
They are operated by means of enormous magnets which are suspended at the top of the shaft . 
By an electrical device the volume of magnetism generated is regulated and the speed of the car varied . 
Scarcely had the door of the car closed behind us than we were slowing up to stop at the landing above , so rapid was our ascent of the long shaft . 
When we emerged from the little building which houses the upper terminus of the elevator , we found ourselves in the midst of a veritable fairyland of beauty . 
The combined languages of Earth men hold no words to convey to the mind the gorgeous beauties of the scene . 
Phaidor's eyes were wide in amazement . 
The Temple of Issus , she whispered , half to herself . 
Xodar watched us with his grim smile , partly of amusement and partly malicious gloating . 
The gardens swarmed with brilliantly trapped black men and women . 
Among them moved red and white females serving their every want . 
The places of the outer world and the temples of the therns had been robbed of their princesses and goddesses that the blacks might have their slaves . 
Through this scene we moved toward the temple . 
At the main entrance we were halted by a cordon of armed guards . 
Xodar spoke a few words to an officer who came forward to question us . 
Together they entered the temple , where they remained for some time . 
When they returned it was to announce that Issus desired to look upon the daughter of Matai Shang , and the strange creature from another world who had been a Prince of Helium . 
Slowly we moved through endless corridors of unthinkable beauty through magnificent apartments , and noble halls . 
At length we were halted in a spacious chamber in the centre of the temple . 
One of the officers who had accompanied us advanced to a large door in the further end of the chamber . 
Here he must have made some sort of signal for immediately the door opened and another richly trapped courtier emerged . 
We were then led up to the door , where we were directed to get down on our hands and knees with our backs toward the room we were to enter . 
The doors were swung open and after being cautioned not to turn our heads under penalty of instant death we were commanded to back into the presence of Issus . 
After we had crawled in this disgusting fashion for a matter of a couple of hundred feet we were halted by our escort . 
Let them rise , said a voice behind us a thin , wavering voice , yet one that had evidently been accustomed to command for many years . 
Rise , said our escort , but do not face toward Issus . 
The woman pleases me , said the thin , wavering voice again after a few moments of silence . 
She shall serve me the allotted time . 
The man you may return to the Isle of Shador which lies against the northern shore of the Sea of Omean . 
I watched Phaidor from the corner of my eye . 
She paled to a ghastly hue . 
Slowly , very slowly she turned , as though drawn by some invisible yet irresistible force . 
She was standing quite close to me , so close that her bare arm touched mine as she finally faced Issus , Goddess of Life Eternal . 
It must be dazzling loveliness indeed , thought I , to cause such emotion in the breast of so radiant a beauty as Phaidor , daughter of Matai Shang . 
Thus spoke Issus , and the heavy hand of the officer fell upon my shoulder . 
In accordance with his instructions I dropped to my hands and knees once more and crawled from the Presence . 
Once without the chamber the doors closed behind us and I was bid to rise . 
Xodar joined me and together we slowly retraced our steps toward the gardens . 
You spared my life when you easily might have taken it , he said after we had proceeded some little way in silence , and I would aid you if I might . 
I can help to make your life here more bearable , but your fate is inevitable . 
You may never hope to return to the outer world . 
What will be my fate ? I asked . 
That will depend largely upon Issus . 
Why should she send for me ? I asked . 
The men of the lower orders she often uses for various purposes of amusement . 
Such a fighter as you , for example , would render fine sport in the monthly rites of the temple . 
There are men pitted against men , and against beasts for the edification of Issus and the replenishment of her larder . 
She eats human flesh ? I asked . 
They were a people drunk with power and success , looking upon the other inhabitants of Mars as we look upon the beasts of the field and the forest . 
She eats only the flesh of the best bred of the Holy Therns and the red Barsoomians . 
The flesh of the others goes to our boards . 
The animals are eaten by the slaves . 
She also eats other dainties . 
I did not understand then that there lay any special significance in his reference to other dainties . 
I thought the limit of ghoulishness already had been reached in the recitation of Issus' menu . 
I still had much to learn as to the depths of cruelty and bestiality to which omnipotence may drag its possessor . 
We had about reached the last of the many chambers and corridors which led to the gardens when an officer overtook us . 
Issus would look again upon this man , he said . 
Evidently he did not relish the thought that Issus had learned of his inglorious defeat . 
Without a word he turned and we followed the officer once again to the closed doors before the audience chamber of Issus , Goddess of Life Eternal . 
Here the ceremony of entrance was repeated . 
Again Issus bid me rise . 
For several minutes all was silent as the tomb . 
The eyes of deity were appraising me . 
Presently the thin wavering voice broke the stillness , repeating in a singsong drone the words which for countless ages had sealed the doom of numberless victims . 
I turned as I had been bid , expecting such a treat as only the revealment of divine glory to mortal eyes might produce . 
What I saw was a solid phalanx of armed men between myself and a dais supporting a great bench of carved sorapus wood . 
On this bench , or throne , squatted a female black . 
She was evidently very old . 
Not a hair remained upon her wrinkled skull . 
With the exception of two yellow fangs she was entirely toothless . 
On either side of her thin , hawk like nose her eyes burned from the depths of horribly sunken sockets . 
The skin of her face was seamed and creased with a million deepcut furrows . 
Her body was as wrinkled as her face , and as repulsive . 
Emaciated arms and legs attached to a torso which seemed to be mostly distorted abdomen completed the holy vision of her radiant beauty . 
Surrounding her were a number of female slaves , among them Phaidor , white and trembling . 
This is the man who slew seven of the First Born and , bare handed , bound Dator Xodar with his own harness ? asked Issus . 
Most glorious vision of divine loveliness , it is , replied the officer who stood at my side . 
Produce Dator Xodar , she commanded . 
Xodar was brought from the adjoining room . 
Issus glared at him , a baleful light in her hideous eyes . 
And such as you are a Dator of the First Born ? she squealed . 
For the disgrace you have brought upon the Immortal Race you shall be degraded to a rank below the lowest . 
No longer be you a Dator , but for evermore a slave of slaves , to fetch and carry for the lower orders that serve in the gardens of Issus . 
Cowards and slaves wear no trappings . 
Not a muscle twitched , nor a tremor shook his giant frame as a soldier of the guard roughly stripped his gorgeous trappings from him . 
Begone , screamed the infuriated little old woman . 
Take him away out of the sight of my divine eyes . 
Slowly and with high held head the proud Xodar turned and stalked from the chamber . 
Issus rose and turned to leave the room by another exit . 
Turning to me , she said You shall be returned to Shador for the present . 
Later Issus will see the manner of your fighting . 
Then she disappeared , followed by her retinue . 
Only Phaidor lagged behind , and as I started to follow my guard toward the gardens , the girl came running after me . 
Oh , do not leave me in this terrible place , she begged . 
Forgive the things I said to you , my Prince . 
I did not mean them . 
Only take me away with you . 
Let me share your imprisonment on Shador . 
Her words were an almost incoherent volley of thoughts , so rapidly she spoke . 
You did not understand the honour that I did you . 
Among the therns there is no marriage or giving in marriage , as among the lower orders of the outer world . 
We might have lived together for ever in love and happiness . 
We have both looked upon Issus and in a year we die . 
Let us live that year at least together in what measure of joy remains for the doomed . 
Regardless of the foolish belief of the peoples of the outer world , or of Holy Thern , or ebon First Born , I am not dead . 
While I live my heart beats for but one woman the incomparable Dejah Thoris , Princess of Helium . 
When death overtakes me my heart shall have ceased to beat but what comes after that I know not . 
And in that I am as wise as Matai Shang , Master of Life and Death upon Barsoom or Issus , Goddess of Life Eternal . 
Phaidor stood looking at me intently for a moment . 
No anger showed in her eyes this time , only a pathetic expression of hopeless sorrow . 
I do not understand , she said , and turning walked slowly in the direction of the door through which Issus and her retinue had passed . 
A moment later she had passed from my sight . 
CHAPTER X THE PRISON ISLE OF SHADOR In the outer gardens to which the guard now escorted me , I found Xodar surrounded by a crowd of noble blacks . 
They were reviling and cursing him . 
The men slapped his face . 
The woman spat upon him . 
When I appeared they turned their attentions toward me . 
Ah , cried one , so this is the creature who overcame the great Xodar bare handed . 
Let us see how it was done . 
Let him bind Thurid , suggested a beautiful woman , laughing . 
Thurid is a noble Dator . 
Let Thurid show the dog what it means to face a real man . 
Yes , Thurid ! Thurid ! cried a dozen voices . 
What now ? he cried . 
What would you of Thurid ? Quickly a dozen voices explained . 
Thurid turned toward Xodar , his eyes narrowing to two nasty slits . 
Ever did I think you carried the heart of a sorak in your putrid breast . 
Calot , I spurn you with my foot , and with the words he turned to kick Xodar . 
For minutes it had been boiling at the cowardly treatment they had been according this once powerful comrade because he had fallen from the favour of Issus . 
I was standing close beside Xodar as Thurid swung his foot for the cowardly kick . 
The degraded Dator stood erect and motionless as a carven image . 
He was prepared to take whatever his former comrades had to offer in the way of insults and reproaches , and take them in manly silence and stoicism . 
But as Thurid's foot swung so did mine , and I caught him a painful blow upon the shin bone that saved Xodar from this added ignominy . 
For a moment there was tense silence , then Thurid , with a roar of rage sprang for my throat just as Xodar had upon the deck of the cruiser . 
I ducked beneath his outstretched arms , and as he lunged past me planted a terrific right on the side of his jaw . 
The big fellow spun around like a top , his knees gave beneath him and he crumpled to the ground at my feet . 
As you have done to Xodar , now do you likewise to Thurid . 
Take him before Issus , bound in his own harness , that she may see with her own eyes that there be one among you now who is greater than the First Born . 
Who are you ? whispered the woman who had first suggested that I attempt to bind Thurid . 
I am a citizen of two worlds Captain John Carter of Virginia , Prince of the House of Tardos Mors , Jeddak of Helium . 
With naked hands , with long sword or with short sword , I challenge the flower of her fighting men to combat . 
Come , said the officer who was guarding me back to Shador my orders are imperative there is to be no delay . 
Xodar , come you also . 
There was little of disrespect in the tone that the man used in addressing either Xodar or myself . 
It was evident that he felt less contempt for the former Dator since he had witnessed the ease with which I disposed of the powerful Thurid . 
The return to the Sea of Omean was uneventful . 
We dropped down the awful shaft in the same car that had brought us to the surface . 
There we entered the submarine , taking the long dive to the tunnel far beneath the upper world . 
Then through the tunnel and up again to the pool from which we had had our first introduction to the wonderful passageway from Omean to the Temple of Issus . 
From the island of the submarine we were transported on a small cruiser to the distant Isle of Shador . 
Here we found a small stone prison and a guard of half a dozen blacks . 
There was no ceremony wasted in completing our incarceration . 
Then Tars Tarkas had been with me , but now I was utterly alone in so far as friendly companionship was concerned . 
I fell to wondering about the fate of the great Thark , and of his beautiful companion , the girl , Thuvia . 
They could not guess my whereabouts or my fate , for none on all Barsoom even dream of such a place as this . 
Well , I would make the best of it , and , rising , I swept aside the brooding despair that had been endeavouring to claim me . 
With the idea of exploring my prison , I started to look around . 
Xodar sat , with bowed head , upon a low stone bench near the centre of the room in which we were . 
He had not spoken since Issus had degraded him . 
The building was roofless , the walls rising to a height of about thirty feet . 
Half way up were a couple of small , heavily barred windows . 
The prison was divided into several rooms by partitions twenty feet high . 
There was no one in the room which we occupied , but two doors which led to other rooms were opened . 
I entered one of these rooms , but found it vacant . 
Evidently he was the only other prisoner . 
As he slept I leaned over and looked at him . 
There was something strangely familiar about his face , and yet I could not place him . 
His features were very regular and , like the proportions of his graceful limbs and body , beautiful in the extreme . 
He was very light in colour for a red man , but in other respects he seemed a typical specimen of this handsome race . 
Returning to my own cell , I found Xodar still sitting in the same position in which I had left him . 
Man , I cried , it will profit you nothing to mope thus . 
It were no disgrace to be bested by John Carter . 
You have seen that in the ease with which I accounted for Thurid . 
You knew it before when on the cruiser's deck you saw me slay three of your comrades . 
I would that you had dispatched me at the same time , he said . 
Come , come ! I cried . 
Neither of us is dead . 
Why not win to freedom ? He looked at me in amazement . 
You know not of what you speak , he replied . 
She hears now the words you speak . 
She knows the thoughts you think . 
It is sacrilege even to dream of breaking her commands . 
Rot , Xodar , I ejaculated impatiently . 
He sprang to his feet in horror . 
The curse of Issus will fall upon you , he cried . 
In another instant you will be smitten down , writhing to your death in horrible agony . 
Do you believe that , Xodar ? I asked . 
Of course who would dare doubt ? I doubt yes , and further , I deny , I said . 
Why , Xodar , you tell me that she even knows my thoughts . 
The red men have all had that power for ages . 
They can shut their minds so that none may read their thoughts . 
I learned the first secret years ago the other I never had to learn , since upon all Barsoom is none who can read what passes in the secret chambers of my brain . 
Your goddess cannot read my thoughts nor can she read yours when you are out of sight , unless you will it . 
What do you mean ? he whispered in an affrighted voice , so low that I could scarcely hear him . 
I mean that I thought her the most repulsive and vilely hideous creature my eyes ever had rested upon . 
For a moment he eyed me in horror stricken amazement , and then with a cry of Blasphemer he sprang upon me . 
I did not wish to strike him again , nor was it necessary , since he was unarmed and therefore quite harmless to me . 
There he hung helpless for a moment , glaring up at me in impotent rage . 
Xodar , I said , let us be friends . 
For a year , possibly , we may be forced to live together in the narrow confines of this tiny room . 
I am sorry to have offended you , but I could not dream that one who had suffered from the cruel injustice of Issus still could believe her divine . 
Issus , you see , has not struck me dead , nor is she rescuing her faithful Xodar from the clutches of the unbeliever who defamed her fair beauty . 
No , Xodar , your Issus is a mortal old woman . 
Once out of her clutches and she cannot harm you . 
With your knowledge of this strange land , and my knowledge of the outer world , two such fighting men as you and I should be able to win our way to freedom . 
As I finished I raised Xodar to his feet and released him . 
He did not renew the attack upon me , nor did he speak . 
Instead , he walked toward the bench , and , sinking down upon it , remained lost in deep thought for hours . 
Kaor , I cried , after the red Martian manner of greeting . 
What do you here ? I await my death , I presume , I replied with a wry smile . 
He too smiled , a brave and winning smile . 
I also , he said . 
I looked upon the radiant beauty of Issus nearly a year since . 
It has always been a source of keen wonder to me that I did not drop dead at the first sight of that hideous countenance . 
And her belly ! By my first ancestor , but never was there so grotesque a figure in all the universe . 
That they should call such a one Goddess of Life Eternal , Goddess of Death , Mother of the Nearer Moon , and fifty other equally impossible titles , is quite beyond me . 
How came you here ? I asked . 
I must have inherited from my father a wild lust for adventure , as well as a hollow where my bump of reverence should be . 
I had reached the area of eternal ice when my port propeller jammed , and I dropped to the ground to make repairs . 
Before I knew it the air was black with fliers , and a hundred of these First Born devils were leaping to the ground all about me . 
Your father is dead ? I asked . 
He died before the shell broke to let me step out into a world that has been very good to me . 
But for the sorrow that I had never the honour to know my father , I have been very happy . 
My only sorrow now is that my mother must mourn me as she has for ten long years mourned my father . 
Who was your father ? I asked . 
It is Issus' wish that you two be confined in the same room , said the guard when he had returned to our cell . 
This cowardly slave of a slave is to serve you well , he said to me , indicating Xodar with a wave of his hand . 
If he does not , you are to beat him into submission . 
It is Issus' wish that you heap upon him every indignity and degradation of which you can conceive . 
With these words he left us . 
Xodar still sat with his face buried in his hands . 
I walked to his side and placed my hand upon his shoulder . 
Xodar , I said , you have heard the commands of Issus , but you need not fear that I shall attempt to put them into execution . 
You are a brave man , Xodar . 
It is your own affair if you wish to be persecuted and humiliated but were I you I should assert my manhood and defy my enemies . 
I have been thinking very hard , John Carter , he said , of all the new ideas you gave me a few hours since . 
I am ready to cast off the ties that have bound me . 
But we cannot escape even from the four walls of our prison , urged Xodar . 
Test this flint like surface , he cried , smiting the solid rock that confined us . 
And look upon this polished surface none could cling to it to reach the top . 
That is the least of our troubles , Xodar , I replied . 
Night time is the best and offers the only slender chance we have , for then men sleep , and only a dozing watch nods in the tops of the battleships . 
No watch is kept upon the cruisers and smaller craft . 
The watchers upon the larger vessels see to all about them . 
But , I exclaimed , it is not dark ! How can it be night , then ? He smiled . 
You forget , he said , that we are far below ground . 
The light of the sun never penetrates here . 
There are no moons and no stars reflected in the bosom of Omean . 
At the appointed hour of night upon the world above , the men whose duties hold them here sleep , but the light is ever the same . 
A plan may come with our awakening . 
So we threw ourselves upon the hard stone floor of our prison and slept the sleep of tired men . 
CHAPTER XI WHEN HELL BROKE LOOSE Early the next morning Xodar and I commenced work upon our plans for escape . 
From this I computed the general direction of Helium and the distance at which it lay from the opening which led to Omean . 
Then I had him draw a map of Omean , indicating plainly the position of Shador and of the opening in the dome which led to the outer world . 
These I studied until they were indelibly imprinted in my memory . 
From Xodar I learned the duties and customs of the guards who patrolled Shador . 
It seemed that during the hours set aside for sleep only one man was on duty at a time . 
He paced a beat that passed around the prison , at a distance of about a hundred feet from the building . 
The pace of the sentries , Xodar said , was very slow , requiring nearly ten minutes to make a single round . 
This meant that for practically five minutes at a time each side of the prison was unguarded as the sentry pursued his snail like pace upon the opposite side . 
We will get out all right , I replied , laughing . 
When shall we make the attempt ? he asked . 
The first night that finds a small craft moored near the shore of Shador , I replied . 
But how will you know that any craft is moored near Shador ? The windows are far beyond our reach . 
Not so , friend Xodar look ! With a bound I sprang to the bars of the window opposite us , and took a quick survey of the scene without . 
Several small craft and two large battleships lay within a hundred yards of Shador . 
To night , I thought , and was just about to voice my decision to Xodar , when , without warning , the door of our prison opened and a guard stepped in . 
The man had entered and was standing facing the centre of the room , so that his back was toward me . 
Five feet above me was the top of a partition wall separating our cell from the next . 
There was my only chance to escape detection . 
Where is the white man ? cried the guard of Xodar . 
He started to turn to see if I were in another part of the cell . 
What was that ? I heard the deep voice of the black bellow as my metal grated against the stone wall as I slipped over . 
Then I dropped lightly to the floor of the cell beyond . 
Where is the white slave ? again cried the guard . 
I know not , replied Xodar . 
He was here even as you entered . 
I am not his keeper go find him . 
The black grumbled something that I could not understand , and then I heard him unlocking the door into one of the other cells on the further side . 
Listening intently , I caught the sound as the door closed behind him . 
Then I sprang once more to the top of the partition and dropped into my own cell beside the astonished Xodar . 
Do you see now how we will escape ? I asked him in a whisper . 
I see how you may , he replied , but I am no wiser than before as to how I am to pass these walls . 
Certain it is that I cannot bounce over them as you do . 
We heard the guard moving about from cell to cell , and finally , his rounds completed , he again entered ours . 
When his eyes fell upon me they fairly bulged from his head . 
By the shell of my first ancestor ! he roared . 
Where have you been ? I have been in prison since you put me here yesterday , I answered . 
I was in this room when you entered . 
You had better look to your eyesight . 
He glared at me in mingled rage and relief . 
He conducted me outside the prison , leaving Xodar behind . 
There we found several other guards , and with them the red Martian youth who occupied another cell upon Shador . 
The journey I had taken to the Temple of Issus on the preceding day was repeated . 
The guards kept the red boy and myself separated , so that we had no opportunity to continue the conversation that had been interrupted the previous night . 
The youth's face had haunted me . 
Where had I seen him before . 
There was something strangely familiar in every line of him in his carriage , his manner of speaking , his gestures . 
I could have sworn that I knew him , and yet I knew too that I had never seen him before . 
When we reached the gardens of Issus we were led away from the temple instead of toward it . 
The way wound through enchanted parks to a mighty wall that towered a hundred feet in air . 
Massive gates gave egress upon a small plain , surrounded by the same gorgeous forests that I had seen at the foot of the Golden Cliffs . 
Crowds of blacks were strolling in the same direction that our guards were leading us , and with them mingled my old friends the plant men and great white apes . 
The brutal beasts moved among the crowd as pet dogs might . 
Presently we came upon our destination , a great amphitheatre situated at the further edge of the plain , and about half a mile beyond the garden walls . 
Through a massive arched gateway the blacks poured in to take their seats , while our guards led us to a smaller entrance near one end of the structure . 
Through this we passed into an enclosure beneath the seats , where we found a number of other prisoners herded together under guard . 
Some of them were in irons , but for the most part they seemed sufficiently awed by the presence of their guards to preclude any possibility of attempted escape . 
What is the object of this assembly ? I asked him . 
If , perchance , the black is killed , it is evidence of his disloyalty to Issus the unpardonable sin . 
If he lives through the contest he is held acquitted of the charge that forced the sentence of the rites , as it is called , upon him . 
The forms of combat vary . 
And if we are victorious , I asked , what then freedom ? He laughed . 
The only freedom for us death . 
None who enters the domains of the First Born ever leave . 
If we prove able fighters we are permitted to fight often . 
If we are not mighty fighters He shrugged his shoulders . 
Sooner or later we die in the arena . 
And you have fought often ? I asked . 
Very often , he replied . 
It is my only pleasure . 
Some hundred black devils have I accounted for during nearly a year of the rites of Issus . 
My mother would be very proud could she only know how well I have maintained the traditions of my father's prowess . 
Your father must have been a mighty warrior ! I said . 
I have known most of the warriors of Barsoom in my time doubtless I knew him . 
Who was he ? My father was Come , calots ! cried the rough voice of a guard . 
To the slaughter with you , and roughly we were hustled to the steep incline that led to the chambers far below which let out upon the arena . 
The amphitheatre , like all I had ever seen upon Barsoom , was built in a large excavation . 
Only the highest seats , which formed the low wall surrounding the pit , were above the level of the ground . 
The arena itself was far below the surface . 
Just beneath the lowest tier of seats was a series of barred cages on a level with the surface of the arena . 
Into these we were herded . 
But , unfortunately , my youthful friend was not of those who occupied a cage with me . 
Directly opposite my cage was the throne of Issus . 
Here the horrid creature squatted , surrounded by a hundred slave maidens sparkling in jewelled trappings . 
Brilliant cloths of many hues and strange patterns formed the soft cushion covering of the dais upon which they reclined about her . 
On four sides of the throne and several feet below it stood three solid ranks of heavily armed soldiery , elbow to elbow . 
In front of these were the high dignitaries of this mock heaven gleaming blacks bedecked with precious stones , upon their foreheads the insignia of their rank set in circles of gold . 
On both sides of the throne stretched a solid mass of humanity from top to bottom of the amphitheatre . 
There were as many women as men , and each was clothed in the wondrously wrought harness of his station and his house . 
With each black was from one to three slaves , drawn from the domains of the therns and from the outer world . 
The blacks are all noble . 
There is no peasantry among the First Born . 
Even the lowest soldier is a god , and has his slaves to wait upon him . 
The First Born do no work . 
The men fight that is a sacred privilege and duty to fight and die for Issus . 
The women do nothing , absolutely nothing . 
Slaves wash them , slaves dress them , slaves feed them . 
The first event of the day was the Tribute to Issus . 
It marked the end of those poor unfortunates who had looked upon the divine glory of the goddess a full year before . 
There were ten of them splendid beauties from the proud courts of mighty Jeddaks and from the temples of the Holy Therns . 
A huge black entered the arena with the young women . 
Carefully he inspected them , felt of their limbs and poked them in the ribs . 
Presently he selected one of their number whom he led before the throne of Issus . 
He addressed some words to the goddess which I could not hear . 
The black raised his hands above his head in token of salute , grasped the girl by the wrist , and dragged her from the arena through a small doorway below the throne . 
Issus will dine well to night , said a prisoner beside me . 
What do you mean ? I asked . 
That was her dinner that old Thabis is taking to the kitchens . 
Didst not note how carefully he selected the plumpest and tenderest of the lot ? I growled out my curses on the monster sitting opposite us on the gorgeous throne . 
Fume not , admonished my companion you will see far worse than that if you live even a month among the First Born . 
I turned again in time to see the gate of a nearby cage thrown open and three monstrous white apes spring into the arena . 
The girls shrank in a frightened group in the centre of the enclosure . 
One was on her knees with imploring hands outstretched toward Issus but the hideous deity only leaned further forward in keener anticipation of the entertainment to come . 
At length the apes spied the huddled knot of terror stricken maidens and with demoniacal shrieks of bestial frenzy , charged upon them . 
A wave of mad fury surged over me . 
The cruel cowardliness of the power drunk creature whose malignant mind conceived such frightful forms of torture stirred to their uttermost depths my resentment and my manhood . 
The blood red haze that presaged death to my foes swam before my eyes . 
The guard lolled before the unbarred gate of the cage which confined me . 
Snatching up his long sword , I sprang into the arena . 
The apes were almost upon the maidens , but a couple of mighty bounds were all my earthly muscles required to carry me to the centre of the sand strewn floor . 
For an instant silence reigned in the great amphitheatre , then a wild shout arose from the cages of the doomed . 
My long sword circled whirring through the air , and a great ape sprawled , headless , at the feet of the fainting girls . 
The other apes turned now upon me , and as I stood facing them a sullen roar from the audience answered the wild cheers from the cages . 
From the tail of my eye I saw a score of guards rushing across the glistening sand toward me . 
Then a figure broke from one of the cages behind them . 
It was the youth whose personality so fascinated me . 
He paused a moment before the cages , with upraised sword . 
Come , men of the outer world ! he shouted . 
Come ! The racks without your cages are filled with blades . 
Without waiting to note the outcome of his plea , he turned and bounded toward me . 
From every cage that harboured red men a thunderous shout went up in answer to his exhortation . 
The inner guards went down beneath howling mobs , and the cages vomited forth their inmates hot with the lust to kill . 
The great apes , towering in all their fifteen feet of height , had gone down before my sword while the charging guards were still some distance away . 
Close behind them pursued the youth . 
I noted the marvellous speed of the young red man as he raced after the guards . 
Never had I seen such speed in any Martian . 
On the handsome face of the boy a grim smile played , and ever and anon he threw a taunting challenge to the foes that faced him . 
In this and other ways his manner of fighting was similar to that which had always marked me on the field of combat . 
Perhaps it was this vague likeness which made me love the boy , while the awful havoc that his sword played amongst the blacks filled my soul with a tremendous respect for him . 
We were having a merry time of it , we two , when a great body of Issus' own guards were ordered into the arena . 
On they came with fierce cries , while from every side the armed prisoners swarmed upon them . 
For half an hour it was as though all hell had broken loose . 
In the walled confines of the arena we fought in an inextricable mass howling , cursing , blood streaked demons and ever the sword of the young red man flashed beside me . 
Many had gone down on both sides , but by far the greater havoc had been wrought in the ranks of the guards of Issus . 
I could see messengers running swiftly through the audience , and as they passed the nobles there unsheathed their swords and sprang into the arena . 
They were going to annihilate us by force of numbers that was quite evidently their plan . 
It was that face that inspired me to the thing that followed . 
Quickly I ordered fifty of the prisoners to drop back behind us and form a new circle about the maidens . 
Remain and protect them until I return , I commanded . 
Then , turning to those who formed the outer line , I cried , Down with Issus ! Follow me to the throne we will reap vengeance where vengeance is deserved . 
Hordes of the doughtiest fighting men of the First Born poured from the audience to check our progress . 
We mowed them down before us as they had been paper men . 
To the seats , some of you ! I cried as we approached the arena's barrier wall . 
Ten of us can take the throne , for I had seen that Issus' guards had for the most part entered the fray within the arena . 
On both sides of me the prisoners broke to left and right for the seats , vaulting the low wall with dripping swords lusting for the crowded victims who awaited them . 
In another moment the entire amphitheatre was filled with the shrieks of the dying and the wounded , mingled with the clash of arms and triumphant shouts of the victors . 
Side by side the young red man and I , with perhaps a dozen others , fought our way to the foot of the throne . 
The frightened slaves about her trembled in wide eyed expectancy , knowing not whether to pray for our victory or our defeat . 
Man by man those who stood between us and the carven sorapus wood bench went down before our blades . 
Others swarmed in to fill the breach , but inch by inch , foot by foot we won nearer and nearer to our goal . 
In all parts of the structure the female slaves were falling upon their masters with whatever weapon came first to hand . 
And those who could find no other weapons used their strong fingers and their gleaming teeth . 
Her face was blue with terror . 
She seemed too paralysed with fear to move . 
Only the youth and I fought now . 
The youth sprang to my side and ran his sword through the fellow before he could recover to deliver another blow . 
I should have died even then but for that as my sword was tight wedged in the breastbone of a Dator of the First Born . 
Fly , my Prince ! she cried . 
It is useless to fight them longer . 
All within the arena are dead . 
All who charged the throne are dead but you and this youth . 
Only among the seats are there left any of your fighting men , and they and the slave women are fast being cut down . 
Listen ! You can scarce hear the battle cry of the women now for nearly all are dead . 
For each one of you there are ten thousand blacks within the domains of the First Born . 
Break for the open and the sea of Korus . 
With your mighty sword arm you may yet win to the Golden Cliffs and the templed gardens of the Holy Therns . 
There tell your story to Matai Shang , my father . 
He will keep you , and together you may find a way to rescue me . 
Fly while there is yet a bare chance for flight . 
But that was not my mission , nor could I see much to be preferred in the cruel hospitality of the Holy Therns to that of the First Born . 
Down with Issus ! I shouted , and together the boy and I took up the fight once more . 
Two blacks went down with our swords in their vitals , and we stood face to face with Issus . 
As my sword went up to end her horrid career her paralysis left her , and with an ear piercing shriek she turned to flee . 
Directly behind her a black gulf suddenly yawned in the flooring of the dais . 
She sprang for the opening with the youth and I close at her heels . 
Her scattered guard rallied at her cry and rushed for us . 
A blow fell upon the head of the youth . 
CHAPTER XII DOOMED TO DIE For an instant I stood there before they fell upon me , but the first rush of them forced me back a step or two . 
My foot felt for the floor but found only empty space . 
I had backed into the pit which had received Issus . 
For a second I toppled there upon the brink . 
Then I too with the boy still tightly clutched in my arms pitched backward into the black abyss . 
Rash mortal ! she shrilled . 
You shall pay the awful penalty for your blasphemy in this secret cell . 
In another instant she was gone , and the dim light which had filled the cell faded into Cimmerian blackness . 
Pleasant old lady , said a voice at my side . 
Who speaks ? I asked . 
'Tis I , your companion , who has had the honour this day of fighting shoulder to shoulder with the greatest warrior that ever wore metal upon Barsoom . 
I thank God that you are not dead , I said . 
I feared for that nasty cut upon your head . 
It but stunned me , he replied . 
Maybe it were as well had it been final , I said . 
We seem to be in a pretty fix here with a splendid chance of dying of starvation and thirst . 
Where are we ? Beneath the arena , I replied . 
We tumbled down the shaft that swallowed Issus as she was almost at our mercy . 
He laughed a low laugh of pleasure and relief , and then reaching out through the inky blackness he sought my shoulder and pulled my ear close to his mouth . 
Nothing could be better , he whispered . 
There are secrets within the secrets of Issus of which Issus herself does not dream . 
The blacks in charge of the work explored them , taking several of us along to do whatever work there might be occasion for . 
I know the entire system perfectly . 
If we can reach the submarine undetected we may yet make the sea in which there are many islands where the blacks never go . 
Lead back to Shador , my friend , I whispered . 
Xodar , the black , is there . 
We were to attempt our escape together , so I cannot desert him . 
No , said the boy , one cannot desert a friend . 
It were better to be recaptured ourselves than that . 
Then he commenced groping his way about the floor of the dark chamber searching for the trap that led to the corridors beneath . 
There is a drop here of about ten feet , he whispered . 
Hang by your hands and you will alight safely on a level floor of soft sand . 
Very quietly I lowered myself from the inky cell above into the inky pit below . 
So utterly dark was it that we could not see our hands at an inch from our noses . 
Never , I think , have I known such complete absence of light as existed in the pits of Issus . 
For an instant I hung in mid air . 
There is a strange sensation connected with an experience of that nature which is quite difficult to describe . 
Although the boy had told me that it was but ten feet to the floor below I experienced the same thrills as though I were hanging above a bottomless pit . 
Then I released my hold and dropped four feet to a soft cushion of sand . 
Raise me to your shoulders , he said , and I will replace the trap . 
This done he took me by the hand , leading me very slowly , with much feeling about and frequent halts to assure himself that he did not stray into wrong passageways . 
Presently we commenced the descent of a very steep incline . 
It will not be long , he said , before we shall have light . 
At the lower levels we meet the same strata of phosphorescent rock that illuminates Omean . 
Never shall I forget that trip through the pits of Issus . 
In addition to the green men there had been three principal races upon Barsoom . 
The blacks , the whites , and a race of yellow men . 
As the waters of the planet dried and the seas receded , all other resources dwindled until life upon the planet became a constant battle for survival . 
The result was a partial amalgamation of the blacks , whites and yellows , the result of which is shown in the present splendid race of red men . 
At last , the lighted way , he cried , and looking up I beheld at a long distance before us a dim radiance . 
As we advanced the light increased until presently we emerged into well lighted passageways . 
From then on our progress was rapid until we came suddenly to the end of a corridor that let directly upon the ledge surrounding the pool of the submarine . 
The craft lay at her moorings with uncovered hatch . 
Raising his finger to his lips and then tapping his sword in a significant manner , the youth crept noiselessly toward the vessel . 
I was close at his heels . 
Silently we dropped to the deserted deck , and on hands and knees crawled toward the hatchway . 
A stealthy glance below revealed no guard in sight , and so with the quickness and the soundlessness of cats we dropped together into the main cabin of the submarine . 
Even here was no sign of life . 
Quickly we covered and secured the hatch . 
Then the boy stepped into the pilot house , touched a button and the boat sank amid swirling waters toward the bottom of the shaft . 
The craft was entirely deserted . 
Such good fortune seemed almost unbelievable . 
When I returned to the pilot house to report the good news to my companion he handed me a paper . 
This may explain the absence of the crew , he said . 
It was a radio aerial message to the commander of the submarine The slaves have risen . 
Come with what men you have and those that you can gather on the way . 
Too late to get aid from Omean . 
They are massacring all within the amphitheatre . 
ZITHAD Zithad is Dator of the guards of Issus , explained the youth . 
We gave them a bad scare one that they will not soon forget . 
Let us hope that it is but the beginning of the end of Issus , I said . 
Only our first ancestor knows , he replied . 
We reached the submarine pool in Omean without incident . 
Here we debated the wisdom of sinking the craft before leaving her , but finally decided that it would add nothing to our chances for escape . 
There were plenty of blacks on Omean to thwart us were we apprehended however many more might come from the temples and gardens of Issus would not in any decrease our chances . 
We were now in a quandary as to how to pass the guards who patrolled the island about the pool . 
At last I hit upon a plan . 
What is the name or title of the officer in charge of these guards ? I asked the boy . 
A fellow named Torith was on duty when we entered this morning , he replied . 
And what is the name of the commander of the submarine ? Yersted . 
I found a dispatch blank in the cabin and wrote the following order Dator Torith Return these two slaves at once to Shador . 
YERSTED That will be the simpler way to return , I said , smiling , as I handed the forged order to the boy . 
Come , we shall see now how well it works . 
But our swords ! he exclaimed . 
What shall we say to explain them ? Since we cannot explain them we shall have to leave them behind us , I replied . 
Is it not the extreme of rashness to thus put ourselves again , unarmed , in the power of the First Born ? It is the only way , I answered . 
As you say , he replied with a smile and shrug . 
I could not follow another leader who inspired greater confidence than you . 
Come , let us put your ruse to the test . 
At sight of us the members of the guard sprang forward in surprise , and with levelled rifles halted us . 
I held out the message to one of them . 
He took it and seeing to whom it was addressed turned and handed it to Torith who was emerging from his office to learn the cause of the commotion . 
The black read the order , and for a moment eyed us with evident suspicion . 
His orders were to return immediately to the temple landing , I replied . 
Torith took a half step toward the entrance to the pool as though to corroborate my story . 
It was the very boldness of the plan which rendered it successful . 
Were you connected with the rising of the slaves ? asked Torith . 
We have just had meagre reports of some such event . 
All were involved , I replied . 
But it amounted to little . 
The guards quickly overcame and killed the majority of us . 
He seemed satisfied with this reply . 
Take them to Shador , he ordered , turning to one of his subordinates . 
We entered a small boat lying beside the island , and in a few minutes were disembarking upon Shador . 
Here we were returned to our respective cells I with Xodar , the boy by himself and behind locked doors we were again prisoners of the First Born . 
CHAPTER XIII A BREAK FOR LIBERTY Xodar listened in incredulous astonishment to my narration of the events which had transpired within the arena at the rites of Issus . 
It is the final proof , he said , at last . 
No more is needed to completely shatter the last remnant of my superstitious belief in the divinity of Issus . 
She is only a wicked old woman , wielding a mighty power for evil through machinations that have kept her own people and all Barsoom in religious ignorance for ages . 
She is still all powerful here , however , I replied . 
So it behooves us to leave at the first moment that appears at all propitious . 
To night will do as well as any , I replied . 
It will soon be night , said Xodar . 
How may I aid in the adventure ? Can you swim ? I asked him . 
No slimy silian that haunts the depths of Korus is more at home in water than is Xodar , he replied . 
The red one in all probability cannot swim , I said , since there is scarce enough water in all their domains to float the tiniest craft . 
One of us therefore will have to support him through the sea to the craft we select . 
I had hoped that we might make the entire distance below the surface , but I fear that the red youth could not thus perform the trip . 
The red one is to accompany us ? asked Xodar . 
Three swords are better than two . 
Especially when the third is as mighty as this fellow's . 
I have seen him battle in the arena at the rites of Issus many times . 
Never , until I saw you fight , had I seen one who seemed unconquerable even in the face of great odds . 
One might think you two master and pupil , or father and son . 
Come to recall his face there is a resemblance between you . 
Be that as it may , Xodar , he is a great fighter . 
It will be , said Xodar , when they find from whence you have come . 
That is but one of the superstitions which Issus has foisted upon a credulous humanity . 
She works through the Holy Therns who are as ignorant of her real self as are the Barsoomians of the outer world . 
Her decrees are borne to the therns written in blood upon a strange parchment . 
I myself have borne these messages for Issus for many years . 
There is a long tunnel from the temple of Issus to the principal temple of Matai Shang . 
It was dug ages ago by the slaves of the First Born in such utter secrecy that no thern ever guessed its existence . 
The therns for their part have temples dotted about the entire civilized world . 
Thus the therns are used as the principal means for collecting the wealth and labour that the First Born wrest from them as they need it . 
Occasionally the First Born themselves make raids upon the outer world . 
We are a non productive race , priding ourselves upon our non productiveness . 
It is criminal for a First Born to labour or invent . 
That is the work of the lower orders , who live merely that the First Born may enjoy long lives of luxury and idleness . 
Our females would live for ever but for the fact that we tire of them and remove them to make place for others . 
Issus alone of all is protected against death . 
She has lived for countless ages . 
As he ceased speaking a weird call rang out across the waters of Omean . 
Our guard entered to inspect us for the last time before the new day broke upon the world above . 
His duty was soon performed and the heavy door of our prison closed behind him we were alone for the night . 
I gave him time to return to his quarters , as Xodar said he probably would do , then I sprang to the grated window and surveyed the nearby waters . 
Upon the battleship alone was there a watch . 
I could see him plainly in the upper works of the ship , and as I watched I saw him spread his sleeping silks upon the tiny platform in which he was stationed . 
Soon he threw himself at full length upon his couch . 
The discipline on Omean was lax indeed . 
But it is not to be wondered at since no enemy guessed the existence upon Barsoom of such a fleet , or even of the First Born , or the Sea of Omean . 
Why indeed should they maintain a watch ? Presently I dropped to the floor again and talked with Xodar , describing the various craft I had seen . 
There is one there , he said , my personal property , built to carry five men , that is the swiftest of the swift . 
In his explanation I recognized a trick of gearing that Kantos Kan had taught me that time we sailed under false names in the navy of Zodanga beneath Sab Than , the Prince . 
And I knew then that the First Born had stolen it from the ships of Helium , for only they are thus geared . 
We decided to wait for an hour at least until all the stragglers had sought their silks . 
In the meantime I was to fetch the red youth to our cell so that we would be in readiness to make our rash break for freedom together . 
I sprang to the top of our partition wall and pulled myself up on to it . 
There I found a flat surface about a foot in width and along this I walked until I came to the cell in which I saw the boy sitting upon his bench . 
Then a wide grin of appreciative understanding spread across his countenance . 
I have tried it many times , and each day I come a little closer . 
Some day I should have been able to make it . 
I lay upon my belly across the wall and reached my hand far down toward him . 
With a little run from the centre of the cell he sprang up until I grasped his outstretched hand , and thus I pulled him to the wall's top beside me . 
You are the first jumper I ever saw among the red men of Barsoom , I said . 
I will tell you why when we have more time . 
Together we returned to the cell in which Xodar sat descending to talk with him until the hour had passed . 
Why Helium ? asked the red youth . 
I am a prince of Helium , I replied . 
He gave me a peculiar look , but said nothing further on the subject . 
Come , I said at length , now is as good a time as any . 
Another moment found me at the top of the partition wall again with the boy beside me . 
Unbuckling my harness I snapped it together with a single long strap which I lowered to the waiting Xodar below . 
He grasped the end and was soon sitting beside us . 
How simple , he laughed . 
The balance should be even simpler , I replied . 
Then I raised myself to the top of the outer wall of the prison , just so that I could peer over and locate the passing sentry . 
For a matter of five minutes I waited and then he came in sight on his slow and snail like beat about the structure . 
The moment his form disappeared I grasped Xodar and drew him to the top of the wall . 
Placing one end of my harness strap in his hands I lowered him quickly to the ground below . 
Then the boy grasped the strap and slid down to Xodar's side . 
They had taken scarce a dozen steps when I too dropped to the ground and followed them leisurely toward the shore . 
I glanced toward Xodar and the youth and saw that they had slipped over the edge of the dock into the water . 
The lure of the swords within the guard house was strong upon me , and I hesitated a moment , half inclined to risk the attempt to take the few we needed . 
That he who hesitates is lost proved itself a true aphorism in this instance , for another moment saw me creeping stealthily toward the door of the guard house . 
Gently I pressed it open a crack enough to discover a dozen blacks stretched upon their silks in profound slumber . 
At the far side of the room a rack held the swords and firearms of the men . 
Warily I pushed the door a trifle wider to admit my body . 
A hinge gave out a resentful groan . 
One of the men stirred , and my heart stood still . 
I cursed myself for a fool to have thus jeopardized our chances for escape but there was nothing for it now but to see the adventure through . 
With a spring as swift and as noiseless as a tiger's I lit beside the guardsman who had moved . 
My hands hovered about his throat awaiting the moment that his eyes should open . 
For what seemed an eternity to my overwrought nerves I remained poised thus . 
Then the fellow turned again upon his side and resumed the even respiration of deep slumber . 
Carefully I picked my way between and over the soldiers until I had gained the rack at the far side of the room . 
Here I turned to survey the sleeping men . 
Their regular breathing rose and fell in a soothing rhythm that seemed to me the sweetest music I ever had heard . 
Gingerly I drew a long sword from the rack . 
The second sword I withdrew noiselessly , but the third clanked in its scabbard with a frightful din . 
Either they were wondrous heavy sleepers or else the noises that I made were really much less than they seemed to me . 
I was about to leave the rack when my attention was attracted by the revolvers . 
I knew that I could not carry more than one away with me , for I was already too heavily laden to move quietly with any degree of safety or speed . 
As I took one of them from its pin my eye fell for the first time on an open window beside the rack . 
Ah , here was a splendid means of escape , for it let directly upon the dock , not twenty feet from the water's edge . 
And as I congratulated myself , I heard the door opposite me open , and there looking me full in the face stood the officer of the guard . 
I felt the wind of his bullet as it whizzed past my ear , and at the same instant I saw him crumple to the ground . 
Where I hit him I do not know , nor if I killed him , for scarce had he started to collapse when I was through the window at my rear . 
In another second the waters of Omean closed above my head , and the three of us were making for the little flier a hundred yards away . 
Xodar was burdened with the boy , and I with the three long swords . 
The revolver I had dropped , so that while we were both strong swimmers it seemed to me that we moved at a snail's pace through the water . 
In fact we reached the boat's side and were all aboard before the watch upon the battleship , aroused by the shots , detected us . 
Then an alarm gun bellowed from a ship's bow , its deep boom reverberating in deafening tones beneath the rocky dome of Omean . 
Instantly the sleeping thousands were awake . 
The decks of a thousand monster craft teemed with fighting men , for an alarm on Omean was a thing of rare occurrence . 
We cast away before the sound of the first gun had died , and another second saw us rising swiftly from the surface of the sea . 
I lay at full length along the deck with the levers and buttons of control before me . 
Xodar and the boy were stretched directly behind me , prone also that we might offer as little resistance to the air as possible . 
Rise high , whispered Xodar . 
They dare not fire their heavy guns toward the dome the fragments of the shells would drop back among their own craft . 
If we are high enough our keel plates will protect us from rifle fire . 
I did as he bade . 
Below us we could see the men leaping into the water by hundreds , and striking out for the small cruisers and one man fliers that lay moored about the big ships . 
The larger craft were getting under way , following us rapidly , but not rising from the water . 
A little to your right , cried Xodar , for there are no points of compass upon Omean where every direction is due north . 
The pandemonium that had broken out below us was deafening . 
A ten man cruiser was rising directly in front to cut off our escape . 
There was but one forlorn hope for us , and I took it . 
To have attempted to dive below her would have put us entirely at her mercy , and precisely where she wanted us . 
On either side a hundred other menacing craft were hastening toward us . 
The alternative was filled with risk in fact it was all risk , with but a slender chance of success . 
Her commander may have seen my intentions then , but it was too late . 
Almost at the instant of impact I turned my bows upward , and then with a shattering jolt we were in collision . 
What I had hoped for happened . 
The cruiser , already tilted at a perilous angle , was carried completely over backward by the impact of my smaller vessel . 
The collision crushed our steel bows , and notwithstanding every effort on our part came near to hurling us from the deck . 
Unguided , our vessel careened wildly in its mad flight , rising ever nearer the rocks above . 
The collision had retarded our progress and now a hundred swift scouts were close upon us . 
The swifter craft are seldom equipped with large buoyancy tanks , since the added bulk of them tends to reduce a vessel's speed . 
As many boats were now quite close to us it was inevitable that we would be quickly overhauled in the shaft , and captured or killed in short order . 
To me there always seems a way to gain the opposite side of an obstacle . 
If one cannot pass over it , or below it , or around it , why then there is but a single alternative left , and that is to pass through it . 
Reverse ? screamed Xodar , behind me . 
For the love of your first ancestor , reverse . 
We are at the shaft . 
Hold tight ! I screamed in reply . 
Grasp the boy and hold tight we are going straight up the shaft . 
The words were scarce out of my mouth as we swept beneath the pitch black opening . 
I heard a little exclamation of surprise from Xodar , followed by a grim laugh . 
The boy laughed too and said something which I could not catch for the whistling of the wind of our awful speed . 
To have touched the side at the speed we were making would doubtless have resulted in instant death for us all . 
But not a star showed above only utter and impenetrable darkness . 
Then I glanced below me , and there I saw a rapidly diminishing circle of light the mouth of the opening above the phosphorescent radiance of Omean . 
By this I steered , endeavouring to keep the circle of light below me ever perfect . 
At best it was but a slender cord that held us from destruction , and I think that I steered that night more by intuition and blind faith than by skill or reason . 
Omean lies perhaps two miles below the surface crust of Mars . 
Our speed must have approximated two hundred miles an hour , for Martian fliers are swift , so that at most we were in the shaft not over forty seconds . 
We must have been out of it for some seconds before I realised that we had accomplished the impossible . 
Black darkness enshrouded all about us . 
There were neither moons nor stars . 
Never before had I seen such a thing upon Mars , and for the moment I was nonplussed . 
Then the explanation came to me . 
It was summer at the south pole . 
The ice cap was melting and those meteoric phenomena , clouds , unknown upon the greater part of Barsoom , were shutting out the light of heaven from this portion of the planet . 
Fortunate indeed it was for us , nor did it take me long to grasp the opportunity for escape which this happy condition offered us . 
We plunged through the cold camp fog without diminishing our speed , and in a moment emerged into the glorious light of the two moons and the million stars . 
I dropped into a horizontal course and headed due north . 
Our enemies were a good half hour behind us with no conception of our direction . 
We had performed the miraculous and come through a thousand dangers unscathed we had escaped from the land of the First Born . 
No other prisoners in all the ages of Barsoom had done this thing , and now as I looked back upon it it did not seem to have been so difficult after all . 
I said as much to Xodar , over my shoulder . 
It is very wonderful , nevertheless , he replied . 
No one else could have accomplished it but John Carter . 
At the sound of that name the boy jumped to his feet . 
John Carter ! he cried . 
John Carter ! Why , man , John Carter , Prince of Helium , has been dead for years . 
CHAPTER XIV THE EYES IN THE DARK My son ! I could not believe my ears . 
Slowly I rose and faced the handsome youth . 
Now that I looked at him closely I commenced to see why his face and personality had attracted me so strongly . 
There was much of his mother's incomparable beauty in his clear cut features , but it was strongly masculine beauty , and his grey eyes and the expression of them were mine . 
The boy stood facing me , half hope and half uncertainty in his look . 
Tell me of your mother , I said . 
Tell me all you can of the years that I have been robbed by a relentless fate of her dear companionship . 
A long life has taught me that a man may seem weak where women and children are concerned and yet be anything but a weakling in the sterner avenues of life . 
Do you know what thing it was that convinced me more than all the others ? What , my boy ? I asked . 
Your first words to me they were of my mother . 
None else but the man who loved her as she has told me my father did would have thought first of her . 
For long years , my son , I can scarce recall a moment that the radiant vision of your mother's face has not been ever before me . 
Those who have known her longest say that she has not changed , unless it be to grow more beautiful were that possible . 
Only , when she thinks I am not about to see her , her face grows very sad , and , oh , so wistful . 
She thinks ever of you , my father , and all Helium mourns with her and for her . 
Her grandfather's people love her . 
They loved you also , and fairly worship your memory as the saviour of Barsoom . 
Upon all Barsoom there is no greater name than John Carter . 
And by what name has your mother called you , my boy ? I asked . 
Xodar had been at the wheel as I talked with my son , and now he called me . 
She is dropping badly by the head , John Carter , he said . 
So long as we were rising at a stiff angle it was not noticeable , but now that I am trying to keep a horizontal course it is different . 
The wound in her bow has opened one of her forward ray tanks . 
It was true , and after I had examined the damage I found it a much graver matter than I had anticipated . 
In the meantime Carthoris and Xodar with tools in hand were puttering with the great rent in the bow in a hopeless endeavour to stem the tide of escaping rays . 
It was still dark when we passed the northern boundary of the ice cap and the area of clouds . 
Below us lay a typical Martian landscape . 
It was becoming more and more difficult to maintain our little vessel in a horizontal position . 
Lower and lower sagged the bow until it became necessary to stop the engine to prevent our flight terminating in a swift dive to the ground . 
To hand rail and stanchion we clung , and finally as we saw the end approaching , snapped the buckles of our harness to the rings at her sides . 
In another moment the deck reared at an angle of ninety degrees and we hung in our leather with feet dangling a thousand yards above the ground . 
I was swinging quite close to the controlling devices , so I reached out to the lever that directed the rays of repulsion . 
The boat responded to the touch , and very gently we began to sink toward the ground . 
It was fully half an hour before we touched . 
An hour later found us in the time rounded gullies of the hills , amid the beautiful flowering plants that abound in the arid waste places of Barsoom . 
There we found numbers of huge milk giving shrubs that strange plant which serves in great part as food and drink for the wild hordes of green men . 
It was indeed a boon to us , for we all were nearly famished . 
Beneath a cluster of these which afforded perfect concealment from wandering air scouts , we lay down to sleep for me the first time in many hours . 
This was the beginning of my fifth day upon Barsoom since I had found myself suddenly translated from my cottage on the Hudson to Dor , the valley beautiful , the valley hideous . 
In all this time I had slept but twice , though once the clock around within the storehouse of the therns . 
It was mid afternoon when I was awakened by some one seizing my hand and covering it with kisses . 
With a start I opened my eyes to look into the beautiful face of Thuvia . 
My Prince ! My Prince ! she cried , in an ecstasy of happiness . 
'Tis you whom I had mourned as dead . 
My ancestors have been good to me I have not lived in vain . 
The girl's voice awoke Xodar and Carthoris . 
Come , come , Thuvia , I said soothingly you are overwrought by the danger and hardships you have passed through . 
You forget yourself , as you forget that I am the husband of the Princess of Helium . 
I forget nothing , my Prince , she replied . 
You have spoken no word of love to me , nor do I expect that you ever shall but nothing can prevent me loving you . 
I would not take the place of Dejah Thoris . 
My greatest ambition is to serve you , my Prince , for ever as your slave . 
No greater boon could I ask , no greater honour could I crave , no greater happiness could I hope . 
As I have before said , I am no ladies' man , and I must admit that I seldom have felt so uncomfortable and embarrassed as I did that moment . 
And I ever return to Helium , Thuvia , I said , you shall go with me , but as an honoured equal , and not as a slave . 
Forget your foolish gratitude begotten infatuation , which your innocence has mistaken for love . 
I like your friendship better , Thuvia . 
You are my master it shall be as you say , she replied simply , but there was a note of sadness in her voice . 
How came you here , Thuvia ? I asked . 
And where is Tars Tarkas ? The great Thark , I fear , is dead , she replied sadly . 
He was a mighty fighter , but a multitude of green warriors of another horde than his overwhelmed him . 
The last that I saw of him they were bearing him , wounded and bleeding , to the deserted city from which they had sallied to attack us . 
You are not sure that he is dead , then ? I asked . 
And where is this city of which you speak ? It is just beyond this range of hills . 
The vessel in which you so nobly resigned a place that we might find escape defied our small skill in navigation , with the result that we drifted aimlessly about for two days . 
Then we decided to abandon the craft and attempt to make our way on foot to the nearest waterway . 
Yesterday we crossed these hills and came upon the dead city beyond . 
We had passed within its streets and were walking toward the central portion , when at an intersecting avenue we saw a body of green warriors approaching . 
Tars Tarkas was in advance , and they saw him , but me they did not see . 
'There will be no escape for me now , he said , 'for these be the Warhoon of the South . 
When they have seen my metal it will be to the death . 
Then he stepped out to meet them . 
Then he stumbled and went down and they rolled over him like a huge wave . 
When they carried him away toward the heart of the city , he was dead , I think , for I did not see him move . 
Before we go farther we must be sure , I said . 
I cannot leave Tars Tarkas alive among the Warhoons . 
To night I shall enter the city and make sure . 
And I shall go with you , spoke Carthoris . 
And I , said Xodar . 
Neither one of you shall go , I replied . 
It is work that requires stealth and strategy , not force . 
One man alone may succeed where more would invite disaster . 
If I need your help , I will return for you . 
They did not like it , but both were good soldiers , and it had been agreed that I should command . 
The sun already was low , so that I did not have long to wait before the sudden darkness of Barsoom engulfed us . 
With a parting word of instructions to Carthoris and Xodar , in case I should not return , I bade them all farewell and set forth at a rapid dogtrot toward the city . 
As I emerged from the hills the nearer moon was winging its wild flight through the heavens , its bright beams turning to burnished silver the barbaric splendour of the ancient metropolis . 
The city had been built upon the gently rolling foothills that in the dim and distant past had sloped down to meet the sea . 
It was due to this fact that I had no difficulty in entering the streets unobserved . 
Once within the streets , I kept close in the dense shadows of the walls . 
At intersections I halted a moment to make sure that none was in sight before I sprang quickly to the shadows of the opposite side . 
Thus I made the journey to the vicinity of the plaza without detection . 
These old familiar sounds that are so distinctive of green Martian life sent a thrill of pleasure surging through me . 
It was as one might feel on coming home after a long absence . 
It was amid such sounds that I had first courted the incomparable Dejah Thoris in the age old marble halls of the dead city of Korad . 
As I stood in the shadows at the far corner of the first square which housed members of the horde , I saw warriors emerging from several of the buildings . 
They all went in the same direction , toward a great building which stood in the centre of the plaza . 
My knowledge of green Martian customs convinced me that this was either the quarters of the principal chieftain or contained the audience chamber wherein the Jeddak met his jeds and lesser chieftains . 
In either event , it was evident that something was afoot which might have a bearing on the recent capture of Tars Tarkas . 
I had entered the city from the south and now stood on the corner of the avenue through which I had passed and the first intersecting avenue south of the plaza . 
Nothing occurred to interrupt my progress through the deserted pile I chose , and I came into the inner court close to the rear walls of the east buildings without detection . 
Within the court a great herd of thoats and zitidars moved restlessly about , cropping the moss like ochre vegetation which overgrows practically the entire uncultivated area of Mars . 
What breeze there was came from the north west , so there was little danger that the beasts would scent me . 
Had they , their squealing and grunting would have grown to such a volume as to attract the attention of the warriors within the buildings . 
These were lighted for about three floors up , but above the third floor all was dark . 
To pass through the lighted rooms was , of course , out of the question , since they swarmed with green Martian men and women . 
My only path lay through the upper floors , and to gain these it was necessary to scale the face of the wall . 
The reaching of the balcony of the second floor was a matter of easy accomplishment an agile leap gave my hands a grasp upon the stone hand rail above . 
In another instant I had drawn myself upon the balcony . 
As I drew closer to listen to their words a warrior entered the room from the hall beyond . 
Come , Tan Gama , he cried , we are to take the Thark before Kab Kadja . 
The warrior addressed arose and , beckoning to a fellow squatting near , the three turned and left the apartment . 
If I could but follow them the chance might come to free Tars Tarkas at once . 
At least I would learn the location of his prison . 
At my right was a door leading from the balcony into the building . 
It was at the end of an unlighted hall , and on the impulse of the moment I stepped within . 
The hall was broad and led straight through to the front of the building . 
On either side were the doorways of the various apartments which lined it . 
I had no more than entered the corridor than I saw the three warriors at the other end those whom I had just seen leaving the apartment . 
Then a turn to the right took them from my sight again . 
Quickly I hastened along the hallway in pursuit . 
At the far end of the corridor I found a spiral stairway leading to the floors above and below . 
The three had evidently left the floor by this avenue . 
That they had gone down and not up I was sure from my knowledge of these ancient buildings and the methods of the Warhoons . 
I myself had once been a prisoner of the cruel hordes of northern Warhoon , and the memory of the underground dungeon in which I lay still is vivid in my memory . 
Down they went toward the pits beneath the structure , and at a safe distance behind I followed the flicker of their torch . 
The way led through a maze of tortuous corridors , unlighted save for the wavering light they carried . 
We had gone perhaps a hundred yards when the party turned abruptly through a doorway at their right . 
I hastened on as rapidly as I dared through the darkness until I reached the point at which they had left the corridor . 
There , through an open door , I saw them removing the chains that secured the great Thark , Tars Tarkas , to the wall . 
Hustling him roughly between them , they came immediately from the chamber , so quickly in fact that I was near to being apprehended . 
There was nothing for me but to hasten on in advance and keep out of the light of their torch . 
I dared not attempt to halt in the darkness of any of the many intersecting corridors , for I knew nothing of the direction they might take . 
Chance was as likely as not to carry me into the very corridor they might choose to enter . 
The sensation of moving rapidly through these dark passages was far from reassuring . 
Presently I came to a place where five corridors diverged from a common point . 
I had hastened along one of them for some little distance when suddenly the faint light of the torch disappeared from behind me . 
I paused to listen for sounds of the party behind me , but the silence was as utter as the silence of the tomb . 
It was much slower work returning , however , than it had been coming , for now the darkness was as utter as the silence . 
It was necessary to feel every foot of the way back with my hand against the side wall , that I might not pass the spot where the five roads radiated . 
After what seemed an eternity to me , I reached the place and recognized it by groping across the entrances to the several corridors until I had counted five of them . 
In not one , however , showed the faintest sign of light . 
My knowledge of their customs lent colour to the belief that he was but being escorted to the audience chamber to have sentence passed upon him . 
I had not the slightest doubt but that they would preserve so doughty a warrior as the great Thark for the rare sport he would furnish at the Great Games . 
On and on I went , but I could not escape my sinister pursuer . 
Suddenly I heard the shuffling noise at my right , and , looking , saw another pair of eyes , evidently approaching from an intersecting corridor . 
As I started to renew my slow retreat I heard the noise repeated behind me , and then before I could turn I heard it again at my left . 
The things were all about me . 
They had me surrounded at the intersection of two corridors . 
Retreat was cut off in all directions , unless I chose to charge one of the beasts . 
Even then I had no doubt but that the others would hurl themselves upon my back . 
I could not even guess the size or nature of the weird creatures . 
That they were of goodly proportions I guessed from the fact that the eyes were on a level with my own . 
I had been constantly turning this way and that to prevent any sudden rush from behind , until I was fairly worn out . 
At length I could endure it no longer , and , taking a fresh grasp upon my long sword , I turned suddenly and charged down upon one of my tormentors . 
With a cry of rage I turned to meet the cowardly beasts , but as I advanced they retreated as had their fellow . 
Another glance over my shoulder discovered the first eyes sneaking on me again . 
And again I charged , only to see the eyes retreat before me and hear the muffled rush of the three at my back . 
In fact , I could feel myself weakening from the mental and physical strain I had been undergoing . 
At that moment I caught another glimpse from the corner of my eye of the single pair of eyes at my back making a sudden rush upon me . 
There was no sound in the corridor , only that of my own breathing , yet I knew that those three uncanny creatures were almost upon me . 
The eyes in front were not retreating so rapidly now I was almost within sword reach of them . 
I raised my sword arm to deal the blow that should free me , and then I felt a heavy body upon my back . 
A cold , moist , slimy something fastened itself upon my throat . 
I stumbled and went down . 
I was unharmed except for a slight bruise upon my forehead where it had struck the stone flagging as I fell . 
I sprang to my feet to ascertain the cause of the light . 
It came from a torch in the hand of one of a party of four green warriors , who were coming rapidly down the corridor toward me . 
They had not yet seen me , and so I lost no time in slipping into the first intersecting corridor that I could find . 
This time , however , I did not advance so far away from the main corridor as on the other occasion that had resulted in my losing Tars Tarkas and his guards . 
The party came rapidly toward the opening of the passageway in which I crouched against the wall . 
As they passed by I breathed a sigh of relief . 
I had not been discovered , and , best of all , the party was the same that I had followed into the pits . 
It consisted of Tars Tarkas and his three guards . 
I fell in behind them and soon we were at the cell in which the great Thark had been chained . 
Two of the warriors remained without while the man with the keys entered with the Thark to fasten his irons upon him once more . 
The torch had been stuck in a socket beside the door , so that its rays illuminated both the corridor and the cell at the same time . 
As I saw the two warriors disappear I approached the entrance to the cell , with a well defined plan already formulated . 
I dislike to dwell upon what followed after I heard the footsteps of the man as he approached the doorway . 
A dozen paces behind him followed John Carter , Prince of Helium . 
The two companions of the man who lay now beside the door of the cell that had been Tars Tarkas' had just started to ascend the runway as the Thark came in view . 
Why so long , Tan Gama ? cried one of the men . 
I had trouble with a lock , replied Tars Tarkas . 
And now I find that I have left my short sword in the Thark's cell . 
Go you on , I'll return and fetch it . 
As you will , Tan Gama , replied he who had before spoken . 
We shall see you above directly . 
Yes , replied Tars Tarkas , and turned as though to retrace his steps to the cell , but he only waited until the two had disappeared at the floor above . 
Then I joined him , we extinguished the torch , and together we crept toward the spiral incline that led to the upper floors of the building . 
Together we threaded the long hall and reached the balcony overlooking the courtyard , without being detected . 
At our right was the window letting into the room in which I had seen Tan Gama and the other warriors as they started to Tars Tarkas' cell earlier in the evening . 
His companions had returned here , and we now overheard a portion of their conversation . 
What can be detaining Tan Gama ? asked one . 
He certainly could not be all this time fetching his shortsword from the Thark's cell , spoke another . 
His short sword ? asked a woman . 
What mean you ? Tan Gama left his short sword in the Thark's cell , explained the first speaker , and left us at the runway , to return and get it . 
Tan Gama wore no short sword this night , said the woman . 
It was broken in to day's battle with the Thark , and Tan Gama gave it to me to repair . 
See , I have it here , and as she spoke she drew Tan Gama's short sword from beneath her sleeping silks and furs . 
The warriors sprang to their feet . 
There is something amiss here , cried one . 
'Tis even what I myself thought when Tan Gama left us at the runway , said another . 
Methought then that his voice sounded strangely . 
Come ! let us hasten to the pits . 
We waited to hear no more . 
Slinging my harness into a long single strap , I lowered Tars Tarkas to the courtyard beneath , and an instant later dropped to his side . 
We had spoken scarcely a dozen words since I had felled Tan Gama at the cell door and seen in the torch's light the expression of utter bewilderment upon the great Thark's face . 
By this time , he had said , I should have learned to wonder at nothing which John Carter accomplishes . 
This fierce green warrior had been the first to greet me that day , now twenty years gone , which had witnessed my first advent upon Mars . 
And now among the inhabitants of two worlds I counted none a better friend than Tars Tarkas , Jeddak of the Tharks . 
As we reached the courtyard we stood in the shadows beneath the balcony for a moment to discuss our plans . 
There be five now in the party , Tars Tarkas , I said Thuvia , Xodar , Carthoris , and ourselves . 
We shall need five thoats to bear us . 
I found him in the prison of Shador , on the Sea of Omean , in the land of the First Born . 
I know not any of these places , John Carter . 
Now we must steal our thoats and be well away to the north before these fellows discover how we have tricked them . 
In safety we reached the great gates at the far end of the courtyard , through which it was necessary to take our thoats to the avenue beyond . 
As we approached them they sniffed our unfamiliar scent and with squeals of rage circled about us . 
Their long , massive necks upreared raised their great , gaping mouths high above our heads . 
They are fearsome appearing brutes at best , but when they are aroused they are fully as dangerous as they look . 
The thoat stands a good ten feet at the shoulder . 
A broad , flat tail , larger at the tip than at the root , completes the picture of this ferocious green Martian mount a fit war steed for these warlike people . 
At length I was successful in reaching the side of one great brute , and ere he knew what I was about I was firmly seated astride his glossy back . 
A moment later Tars Tarkas had caught and mounted another , and then between us we herded three or four more toward the great gates . 
Tars Tarkas rode ahead and , leaning down to the latch , threw the barriers open , while I held the loose thoats from breaking back to the herd . 
Then together we rode through into the avenue with our stolen mounts and , without waiting to close the gates , hurried off toward the southern boundary of the city . 
Here a low whistle , the prearranged signal , apprised the balance of our party that I was returning , and we were met by the three with every manifestation of enthusiastic rejoicing . 
But little time was wasted in narration of our adventure . 
Tars Tarkas and Carthoris exchanged the dignified and formal greetings common upon Barsoom , but I could tell intuitively that the Thark loved my boy and that Carthoris reciprocated his affection . 
Xodar and the green Jeddak were formally presented to each other . 
Then Thuvia was lifted to the least fractious thoat , Xodar and Carthoris mounted two others , and we set out at a rapid pace toward the east . 
Toward noon of the following day we halted to rest our mounts and ourselves . 
The beasts we hobbled , that they might move slowly about cropping the ochre moss like vegetation which constitutes both food and drink for them on the march . 
Thuvia volunteered to remain on watch while the balance of the party slept for an hour . 
It seemed to me that I had but closed my eyes when I felt her hand upon my shoulder and heard her soft voice warning me of a new danger . 
Arise , O Prince , she whispered . 
There be that behind us which has the appearance of a great body of pursuers . 
Tars Tarkas , whose giant stature towered high above the rest of us , could see the farthest . 
It is a great body of mounted men , he said , and they are travelling at high speed . 
There was no time to be lost . 
We sprang to our hobbled thoats , freed them , and mounted . 
Then we turned our faces once more toward the north and took our flight again at the highest speed of our slowest beast . 
For the balance of the day and all the following night we raced across that ochre wilderness with the pursuers at our back ever gaining upon us . 
Slowly but surely they were lessening the distance between us . 
As the sun rose on the second day of our flight it disclosed the pursuing horde not a half mile in our rear . 
As they saw us a fiendish shout of triumph rose from their ranks . 
Several miles in advance lay a range of hills the farther shore of the dead sea we had been crossing . 
Could we but reach these hills our chances of escape would be greatly enhanced , but Thuvia's mount , although carrying the lightest burden , already was showing signs of exhaustion . 
I was riding beside her when suddenly her animal staggered and lurched against mine . 
We were quite close to the hills , but the Warhoons were gaining so rapidly that we had given up all hope of reaching them in time . 
Thuvia and I were in the rear , for our beast was lagging more and more . 
Suddenly I felt the girl's warm lips press a kiss upon my shoulder . 
For thy sake , O my Prince , she murmured . 
Then her arms slipped from about my waist and she was gone . 
Poor child ! She should have known John Carter better than that . 
Turning my thoat , I urged him after her , hoping to reach her side and bear her on again in our hopeless flight . 
Then he attempted to do the same with mine . 
The brave boy's act of chivalrous self sacrifice filled me with pride , nor did I care that it had wrested from us our last frail chance for escape . 
The Warhoons were now close upon us . 
Tars Tarkas and Xodar had discovered our absence and were charging rapidly to our support . 
Everything pointed toward a splendid ending of my second journey to Barsoom . 
A moment later Tars Tarkas and Xodar ranged themselves on either hand , turning their thoats loose that we might all be on an equal footing . 
The Warhoons were perhaps a hundred yards from us when a loud explosion sounded from above and behind us , and almost at the same instant a shell burst in their advancing ranks . 
At once all was confusion . 
A hundred warriors toppled to the ground . 
Riderless thoats plunged hither and thither among the dead and dying . 
Dismounted warriors were trampled underfoot in the stampede which followed . 
In another moment they were racing as madly away from us as they had before been charging down upon us . 
Her bow gun spoke again even as we looked , and another shell burst among the fleeing Warhoons . 
As she drew nearer I could not repress a wild cry of elation , for upon her bows I saw the device of Helium . 
In another instant we were surrounded by armed sailors , and an officer had stepped forward to address us , when his eyes fell upon Carthoris . 
With an exclamation of surprised pleasure he sprang forward , and , placing his hands upon the boy's shoulder , called him by name . 
Carthoris , my Prince , he cried , Kaor ! Kaor ! Hor Vastus greets the son of Dejah Thoris , Princess of Helium , and of her husband , John Carter . 
Where have you been , O my Prince ? All Helium has been plunged in sorrow . 
Terrible have been the calamities that have befallen your great grandsire's mighty nation since the fatal day that saw you leave our midst . 
John Carter ! he exclaimed , and then a sudden troubled look came into his eyes . 
My Prince , he started , where hast thou and then he stopped , but I knew the question that his lips dared not frame . 
With these words the noble fellow unbuckled his scabbard and flung his sword upon the ground before me . 
Could you know the customs and the character of red Martians you would appreciate the depth of meaning that that simple act conveyed to me and to all about us who witnessed it . 
The thing was equivalent to saying , My sword , my body , my life , my soul are yours to do with as you wish . 
Until death and after death I look to you alone for authority for my every act . 
Be you right or wrong , your word shall be my only truth . 
Whoso raises his hand against you must answer to my sword . 
It is the oath of fealty that men occasionally pay to a Jeddak whose high character and chivalrous acts have inspired the enthusiastic love of his followers . 
Never had I known this high tribute paid to a lesser mortal . 
There was but one response possible . 
Hor Vastus , I said , placing my hand upon his shoulder , you know best the promptings of your own heart . 
That I knew , my Prince , he replied , ere ever I threw my beloved blade at thy feet . 
As she touched , an officer sprang from her deck to the ground , and , advancing to Hor Vastus , saluted . 
Kantos Kan desires that this party whom we have rescued be brought immediately to the deck of the Xavarian , he said . 
As we approached the little craft I looked about for the members of my party and for the first time noticed that Thuvia was not among them . 
Questioning elicited the fact that none had seen her since Carthoris had sent her thoat galloping madly toward the hills , in the hope of carrying her out of harm's way . 
Immediately Hor Vastus dispatched a dozen air scouts in as many directions to search for her . 
It could not be possible that she had gone far since we had last seen her . 
We others stepped to the deck of the craft that had been sent to fetch us , and a moment later were upon the Xavarian . 
The first man to greet me was Kantos Kan himself . 
Then I had been an unknown wanderer upon a strange planet , and he a simple padwar in the navy of Helium . 
To day he commanded all Helium's great terrors of the skies , and I was a Prince of the House of Tardos Mors , Jeddak of Helium . 
He did not ask me where I had been . 
Like Hor Vastus , he too dreaded the truth and would not be the one to wrest a statement from me . 
That it must come some time he well knew , but until it came he seemed satisfied to but know that I was with him once more . 
He greeted Carthoris and Tars Tarkas with the keenest delight , but he asked neither where he had been . 
He could scarcely keep his hands off the boy . 
You do not know , John Carter , he said to me , how we of Helium love this son of yours . 
It is as though all the great love we bore his noble father and his poor mother had been centred in him . 
When it became known that he was lost , ten million people wept . 
What mean you , Kantos Kan , I whispered , by 'his poor mother' ? for the words had seemed to carry a sinister meaning which I could not fathom . 
He drew me to one side . 
For a year , he said , Ever since Carthoris disappeared , Dejah Thoris has grieved and mourned for her lost boy . 
For two weeks no word has come back from them , but rumours were rife that they had met with a terrible disaster and that all were dead . 
About this time Zat Arras renewed his importunities for her hand in marriage . 
He has been for ever after her since you disappeared . 
He had a secret audience with her six days ago . 
No word left they of their intentions , but it is always thus with those who go upon the voluntary pilgrimage from which none returns . 
We cannot think aught than that Dejah Thoris has sought the icy bosom of Iss , and that her devoted servants have chosen to accompany her . 
Zat Arras was at Helium when she disappeared . 
He commands this fleet which has been searching for her since . 
No trace of her have we found , and I fear that it be a futile quest . 
While we talked , Hor Vastus' fliers were returning to the Xavarian . 
Not one , however , had discovered a trace of Thuvia . 
My friend read the dispatch and then turned to me . 
Zat Arras commands me to bring our 'prisoners' before him . 
There is naught else to do . 
You know full well , my friend , I said , smiling , that Zat Arras has good cause to hate me . 
Nothing would please him better than to humiliate me and then to kill me . 
Now that he has so excellent an excuse , let us go and see if he has the courage to take advantage of it . 
As we approached the Jed of Zodanga no sign of greeting or recognition crossed his face not even to Carthoris did he vouchsafe a friendly word . 
His attitude was cold , haughty , and uncompromising . 
Kaor , Zat Arras , I said in greeting , but he did not respond . 
Why were these prisoners not disarmed ? he asked to Kantos Kan . 
They are not prisoners , Zat Arras , replied the officer . 
Two of them are of Helium's noblest family . 
Tars Tarkas , Jeddak of Thark , is Tardos Mors' best beloved ally . 
The other is a friend and companion of the Prince of Helium that is enough for me to know . 
It is not enough for me , however , retorted Zat Arras . 
More must I hear from those who have taken the pilgrimage than their names . 
Where have you been , John Carter ? I have just come from the Valley Dor and the Land of the First Born , Zat Arras , I replied . 
I have come back to the Barsoom that I saved from a painless death to again save her , but this time from death in its most frightful form . 
Cease , blasphemer ! cried Zat Arras . 
Hope not to save thy cowardly carcass by inventing horrid lies to But he got no further . 
One does not call John Carter coward and liar thus lightly , and Zat Arras should have known it . 
Before a hand could be raised to stop me , I was at his side and one hand grasped his throat . 
And with that I commenced to bend him back across my knee and tighten my grip upon his throat . 
Seize him ! cried Zat Arras , and a dozen officers sprang forward to assist him . 
Kantos Kan came close and whispered to me . 
Desist , I beg of you . 
It will but involve us all , for I cannot see these men lay hands upon you without aiding you . 
My officers and men will join me and we shall have a mutiny then that may lead to the revolution . 
For the sake of Tardos Mors and Helium , desist . 
At his words I released Zat Arras and , turning my back upon him , walked toward the ship's rail . 
Come , Kantos Kan , I said , the Prince of Helium would return to the Xavarian . 
Zat Arras stood white and trembling amidst his officers . 
You may count my metal among your fighting men , John Carter , he said . 
I thanked him and passed on . 
In silence we embarked , and shortly after stepped once more upon the deck of the Xavarian . 
Fifteen minutes later we received orders from the flagship to proceed toward Helium . 
Our journey thither was uneventful . 
Carthoris and I were wrapped in the gloomiest of thoughts . 
Tars Tarkas grieved for the loss of his daughter . 
Xodar alone was care free a fugitive and outlaw , he could be no worse off in Helium than elsewhere . 
Let us hope that we may at least go out with good red blood upon our blades , he said . 
It was a simple wish and one most likely to be gratified . 
Among the officers of the Xavarian I thought I could discern division into factions ere we had reached Helium . 
There were those who gathered about Carthoris and myself whenever the opportunity presented , while about an equal number held aloof from us . 
They offered us only the most courteous treatment , but were evidently bound by their superstitious belief in the doctrine of Dor and Iss and Korus . 
I could not blame them , for I knew how strong a hold a creed , however ridiculous it may be , may gain upon an otherwise intelligent people . 
By returning from Dor we had committed a sacrilege by recounting our adventures there , and stating the facts as they existed we had outraged the religion of their fathers . 
We were blasphemers lying heretics . 
Kantos Kan would not talk of our experiences among the therns and the First Born . 
I knew that sooner or later the time must come when our friends and enemies would be forced to declare themselves openly . 
To take sides against him were equivalent to treason . 
On the other hand , the majority of the populace unquestionably would demand that we pay the penalty of our sacrilege . 
At times I would cover my face with my hands in a vain effort to shut out the fearful thing from my mind . 
It was in the forenoon that we arrived above the mile high scarlet tower which marks greater Helium from her twin city . 
As we descended in great circles toward the navy docks a mighty multitude could be seen surging in the streets beneath . 
Helium had been notified by radio aerogram of our approach . 
It is here that Martian justice is meted to benefactor and malefactor . 
Here the hero is decorated . 
Here the felon is condemned . 
We were taken into the temple from the landing stage upon the roof , so that we did not pass among the people at all , as is customary . 
The people in the temple plaza and in the streets for a distance of a full mile were standing as close packed as it was possible for them to get . 
They were very orderly there were neither scoffs nor plaudits , and when they saw us at the window above them there were many who buried their faces in their arms and wept . 
Wherever Captain Carter has used Martian measurements of time , distance , weight , and the like I have translated them into as nearly their equivalent in earthly values as is possible . 
For those who may be interested , however , I will explain that the Martian day is a trifle over hours minutes duration . 
This the Martians divide into ten equal parts , commencing the day at about A. M. Earth time . 
The zodes are divided into fifty shorter periods , each of which in turn is composed of brief periods of time , about equivalent to the earthly second . 
The Barsoomian Table of Time as here given is but a part of the full table appearing in Captain Carter's notes . 
revolution of Mars upon its axis . 
In twos we entered the chamber and marched down the broad Aisle of Hope , as it is called , to the platform in the centre of the hall . 
Before and behind us marched armed guards , while three solid ranks of Zodangan soldiery lined either side of the aisle from the entrance to the rostrum . 
As we reached the raised enclosure I saw our judges . 
As is the custom upon Barsoom there were thirty one , supposedly selected by lot from men of the noble class , for nobles were on trial . 
But to my amazement I saw no single friendly face among them . 
Practically all were Zodangans , and it was I to whom Zodanga owed her defeat at the hands of the green hordes and her subsequent vassalage to Helium . 
About us the vast circular coliseum was packed to its full capacity . 
All classes were represented all ages , and both sexes . 
As we entered the hall the hum of subdued conversation ceased until as we halted upon the platform , or Throne of Righteousness , the silence of death enveloped the ten thousand spectators . 
The judges were seated in a great circle about the periphery of the circular platform . 
We were assigned seats with our backs toward a small platform in the exact centre of the larger one . 
This placed us facing the judges and the audience . 
Upon the smaller platform each would take his place while his case was being heard . 
Zat Arras himself sat in the golden chair of the presiding magistrate . 
As we were seated and our guards retired to the foot of the stairway leading to the platform , he arose and called my name . 
John Carter , he cried , take your place upon the Pedestal of Truth to be judged impartially according to your acts and here to know the reward you have earned thereby . 
Then turning to and fro toward the audience he narrated the acts upon the value of which my reward was to be determined . 
He who be once dead may not live again . 
He who attempts it must be made dead for ever . 
Judges , your duty lies plain before you here can be no testimony in contravention of truth . 
What reward shall be meted to John Carter in accordance with the acts he has committed ? Death ! shouted one of the judges . 
What manner of justice be this ? he cried to Zat Arras . 
The defendant has not been heard , nor has he had an opportunity to call others in his behalf . 
In the name of the people of Helium I demand fair and impartial treatment for the Prince of Helium . 
A great cry arose from the audience then Justice ! Justice ! Justice ! and Zat Arras dared not deny them . 
Speak , then , he snarled , turning to me but blaspheme not against the things that are sacred upon Barsoom . 
It is to the men of Helium that he states his case nor does he appeal for mercy to any . 
It is not in his own cause that he speaks now it is in thine . 
In the cause of your wives and daughters , and of wives and daughters yet unborn . 
It is to save them from the unthinkably atrocious indignities that I have seen heaped upon the fair women of Barsoom in the place men call the Temple of Issus . 
Sits there no man here who does not know the history of John Carter . 
How he came among you from another world and rose from a prisoner among the green men , through torture and persecution , to a place high among the highest of Barsoom . 
It is to you of Helium that I speak now . 
When I am done let the men of Zodanga have their will with me . 
Zat Arras has taken my sword from me , so the men of Zodanga no longer fear me . 
If the people did not hear Zat Arras' charge , they certainly did hear the verdict of the tribunal . 
When he could be heard he spoke to the people in a cool and level voice . 
You have heard the fate that the men of Zodanga would mete to Helium's noblest hero . 
It may be the duty of the men of Helium to accept the verdict as final . 
Let each man act according to his own heart . 
In an instant soldiers and citizens , officers and nobles were crowding past the soldiers of Zodanga and forcing their way to the Throne of Righteousness . 
A hundred men surged upon the platform , and a hundred blades rattled and clanked to the floor at my feet . 
Zat Arras and his officers were furious , but they were helpless . 
One by one I raised the swords to my lips and buckled them again upon their owners . 
Stop ! cried Zat Arras . 
Soldiers of Helium , let no prisoner leave the Throne of Righteousness . 
From every quarter of the coliseum swords flashed and men rushed threateningly upon the Zodangans . 
Some one raised a cry Tardos Mors is dead a thousand years to John Carter , Jeddak of Helium . 
Hold ! I cried , leaping to the Pedestal of Truth once more . 
Let no man move till I am done . 
A single sword thrust here to day may plunge Helium into a bitter and bloody war the results of which none can foresee . 
It will turn brother against brother and father against son . 
No man's life is worth that sacrifice . 
Rather would I submit to the biased judgment of Zat Arras than be the cause of civil strife in Helium . 
Let us each give in a point to the other , and let this entire matter rest until Tardos Mors returns , or Mors Kajak , his son . 
If neither be back at the end of a year a second trial may be held the thing has a precedent . 
Once that multitude of swords below is drawn against your soldiery no man upon Barsoom not even Tardos Mors himself can avert the consequences . 
What say you ? Speak quickly . 
The Jed of Zodangan Helium raised his voice to the angry sea beneath us . 
Stay your hands , men of Helium , he shouted , his voice trembling with rage . 
The sentence of the court is passed , but the day of retribution has not been set . 
Disperse quietly to your houses . 
Instead , they stood in tense silence with their eyes fastened upon me , as though waiting for a signal to attack . 
Clear the temple , commanded Zat Arras , in a low tone to one of his officers . 
As one man they turned at my request and filed , silent and threatening , past the soldiers of Zat Arras , Jed of Zodanga , who stood scowling in impotent rage . 
Kantos Kan with the others who had sworn allegiance to me still stood upon the Throne of Righteousness with me . 
Come , said Kantos Kan to me , we will escort you to your palace , my Prince . 
Come , Carthoris and Xodar . 
And with a haughty sneer for Zat Arras upon his handsome lips , he turned and strode to the throne steps and up the Aisle of Hope . 
We four and the hundred loyal ones followed behind him , nor was a hand raised to stay us , though glowering eyes followed our triumphal march through the temple . 
Here my old slaves fell upon their knees and kissed my hands as I greeted them . 
They cared not where I had been . 
It was enough that I had returned to them . 
Ah , master , cried one , if our divine Princess were but here this would be a day indeed . 
Tears came to my eyes , so that I was forced to turn away that I might hide my emotions . 
Carthoris wept openly as the slaves pressed about him with expressions of affection , and words of sorrow for our common loss . 
It was now that Tars Tarkas for the first time learned that his daughter , Sola , had accompanied Dejah Thoris upon the last long pilgrimage . 
I had not had the heart to tell him what Kantos Kan had told me . 
With the stoicism of the green Martian he showed no sign of suffering , yet I knew that his grief was as poignant as my own . 
In marked contrast to his kind , he had in well developed form the kindlier human characteristics of love , friendship , and charity . 
It was a sad and sombre party that sat at the feast of welcome in the great dining hall of the palace of the Prince of Helium that day . 
We were over a hundred strong , not counting the members of my little court , for Dejah Thoris and I had maintained a household consistent with our royal rank . 
The board , according to red Martian custom , was triangular , for there were three in our family . 
Behind stood a slave as in the days when his mistress had occupied her place at the board , ready to do her bidding . 
Hor Vastus sat in the seat of honour upon Carthoris' side of the table . 
There was little general conversation . 
It was a quiet and saddened party . 
Suddenly our attention was attracted by the sound of distant shouting , as of many people raising their voices at once , but whether in anger or rejoicing , we could not tell . 
Nearer and nearer came the tumult . 
A slave rushed into the dining hall to cry that a great concourse of people was swarming through the palace gates . 
A second burst upon the heels of the first alternately laughing and shrieking as a madman . 
Dejah Thoris is found ! he cried . 
A messenger from Dejah Thoris ! I waited to hear no more . 
The great windows of the dining hall overlooked the avenue leading to the main gates they were upon the opposite side of the hall from me with the table intervening . 
I did not waste time in circling the great board with a single leap I cleared table and diners and sprang upon the balcony beyond . 
Thirty feet below lay the scarlet sward of the lawn and beyond were many people crowding about a great thoat which bore a rider headed toward the palace . 
I vaulted to the ground below and ran swiftly toward the advancing party . 
As I came near to them I saw that the figure on the thoat was Sola . 
Where is the Princess of Helium ? I cried . 
The green girl slid from her mighty mount and ran toward me . 
O my Prince ! My Prince ! she cried . 
She is gone for ever . 
Even now she may be a captive upon the lesser moon . 
The black pirates of Barsoom have stolen her . 
Seven days ago , after her audience with Zat Arras , Dejah Thoris attempted to slip from the palace in the dead of night . 
We came upon her but a short distance from the palace . 
With her was faithful Woola the hound , but none other . 
The following day we came upon a herd of small thoats , and thereafter we were mounted and made good time . 
We travelled very fast and very far due south until the morning of the fifth day we sighted a great fleet of battleships sailing north . 
They saw us before we could seek shelter , and soon we were surrounded by a horde of black men . 
The Princess's guard fought nobly to the end , but they were soon overcome and slain . 
Only Dejah Thoris and I were spared . 
The fleet continued north after capturing us . 
There were about twenty large battleships in all , besides a number of small swift cruisers . 
From scraps of conversation which we overheard it was evident that the black pirates were searching for a party of fugitives that had escaped them several days prior . 
That they considered the capture of the young woman important was evident from the long and earnest interview the commander of the fleet held with her when she was brought to him . 
Later she was bound and placed in the compartment with Dejah Thoris and myself . 
The new captive was a very beautiful girl . 
She told Dejah Thoris that many years ago she had taken the voluntary pilgrimage from the court of her father , the Jeddak of Ptarth . 
She was Thuvia , the Princess of Ptarth . 
The fleet continued north nearly to Helium , but last night they evidently realized that John Carter had indeed escaped them and so they turned toward the south once more . 
Shortly thereafter a guard entered our compartment and dragged me to the deck . 
Evidently this seemed to him the easiest way of ridding the vessel of my presence and killing me at the same time . 
But a kind fate intervened , and by a miracle I escaped with but slight bruises . 
In fact , the keel of the vessel must have been grazing the surface of the ground at the time . 
I lay all night where I had fallen and the next morning brought an explanation of the fortunate coincidence that had saved me from a terrible death . 
As the sun rose I saw a vast panorama of sea bottom and distant hills lying far below me . 
I was upon the highest peak of a lofty range . 
A few miles west of me was a great waterway . 
When I reached it I found to my delight that it belonged to Helium . 
Here a thoat was procured for me the rest you know . 
For many minutes none spoke . 
Dejah Thoris in the clutches of the First Born ! I shuddered at the thought , but of a sudden the old fire of unconquerable self confidence surged through me . 
I sprang to my feet , and with back thrown shoulders and upraised sword took a solemn vow to reach , rescue , and revenge my Princess . 
A hundred swords leaped from a hundred scabbards , and a hundred fighting men sprang to the table top and pledged me their lives and fortunes to the expedition . 
Already my plans were formulated . 
I thanked each loyal friend , and leaving Carthoris to entertain them , withdrew to my own audience chamber with Kantos Kan , Tars Tarkas , Xodar , and Hor Vastus . 
Here we discussed the details of our expedition until long after dark . 
Xodar was positive that Issus would choose both Dejah Thoris and Thuvia to serve her for a year . 
For that length of time at least they will be comparatively safe , he said , and we will at least know where to look for them . 
In the matter of equipping a fleet to enter Omean the details were left to Kantos Kan and Xodar . 
The former agreed to take such vessels as we required into dock as rapidly as possible , where Xodar would direct their equipment with water propellers . 
Kantos Kan was confident now that the man's ambitions were fully aroused and that nothing short of the title of Jeddak of Helium would satisfy him . 
I doubt , he said , if he would even welcome Dejah Thoris' return , for it would mean another nearer the throne than he . 
There is a way , cried Hor Vastus , to thwart him effectually and for ever . 
I shall whisper it here , but some day I shall stand upon the dome of the Temple of Reward and shout it to cheering multitudes below . 
What do you mean ? asked Kantos Kan . 
John Carter , Jeddak of Helium , said Hor Vastus in a low voice . 
The eyes of my companions lighted , and grim smiles of pleasure and anticipation overspread their faces , as each eye turned toward me questioningly . 
But I shook my head . 
No , my friends , I said , smiling , I thank you , but it cannot be . 
Not yet , at least . 
Whom they choose may count upon the loyalty of my sword , nor shall I seek the honour for myself . 
Until then Tardos Mors is Jeddak of Helium , and Zat Arras is his representative . 
As you will , John Carter , said Hor Vastus , but What was that ? he whispered , pointing toward the window overlooking the gardens . 
The words were scarce out of his mouth ere he had sprung to the balcony without . 
There he goes ! he cried excitedly . 
He was on the balcony when I first saw him , cried Hor Vastus . 
What do you make of it , Kantos Kan ? asked Tars Tarkas . 
A spy sent by Zat Arras , he replied . 
It was ever his way . 
He will have something interesting to report to his master then , laughed Hor Vastus . 
I hope he heard only our references to a new Jeddak , I said . 
If he overheard our plans to rescue Dejah Thoris , it will mean civil war , for he will attempt to thwart us , and in that I will not be thwarted . 
There would I turn against Tardos Mors himself , were it necessary . 
If it throws all Helium into a bloody conflict , I shall go on with these plans to save my Princess . 
It was agreed that the battleships that were to be remodelled should be ordered to Hastor , another Heliumetic city , far to the south west . 
Kantos Kan thought that the docks there , in addition to their regular work , would accommodate at least six battleships at a time . 
It was late that night before our conference broke up , but each man there had his particular duties outlined , and the details of the entire plan had been mapped out . 
Kantos Kan and Xodar were to attend to the remodelling of the ships . 
Tars Tarkas was to get into communication with Thark and learn the sentiments of his people toward his return from Dor . 
Upon Hor Vastus devolved the delicate mission of organising a secret force of fighting men sworn to follow John Carter wherever he might lead . 
But even now I was to be disappointed . 
How long I slept I do not know . 
When I awoke suddenly it was to find a half dozen powerful men upon me , a gag already in my mouth , and a moment later my arms and legs securely bound . 
So quickly had they worked and to such good purpose , that I was utterly beyond the power to resist them by the time I was fully awake . 
Never a word spoke they , and the gag effectually prevented me speaking . 
Silently they lifted me and bore me toward the door of my chamber . 
When they had come into the corridor with me , they turned toward a secret panel in the wall which led to the passage that terminated in the pits beneath the palace . 
That any knew of this panel outside my own household , I was doubtful . 
Yet the leader of the band did not hesitate a moment . 
He stepped directly to the panel , touched the concealed button , and as the door swung open he stood aside while his companions entered with me . 
Then he closed the panel behind him and followed us . 
Down through the passageways to the pits we went . 
The leader rapped upon it with the hilt of his sword three quick , sharp blows , a pause , then three more , another pause , and then two . 
A second later the wall swung in , and I was pushed within a brilliantly lighted chamber in which sat three richly trapped men . 
One of them turned toward me with a sardonic smile upon his thin , cruel lips it was Zat Arras . 
And I doubt not that my expression was coloured by the contempt I felt for the man . 
The eyes of those within the chamber were fixed first upon me and then upon Zat Arras , until finally a flush of anger crept slowly over his face . 
John Carter , he said , by the edict of custom , by the law of our religion , and by the verdict of an impartial court , you are condemned to die . 
The people cannot save you I alone may accomplish that . 
You may go free within two minutes , upon one condition . 
Tardos Mors will never return to Helium . 
Neither will Mors Kajak , nor Dejah Thoris . 
Helium must select a new Jeddak within the year . 
Zat Arras would be Jeddak of Helium . 
Say that you will espouse my cause . 
This is the price of your freedom . 
Free , I could prosecute the search for Dejah Thoris . 
Were I dead , my brave comrades might not be able to carry out our plans . 
For a moment I was perplexed , but for a moment only . 
The proud daughter of a thousand Jeddaks would choose death to a dishonorable alliance such as this , nor could John Carter do less for Helium than his Princess would do . 
Then I turned to Zat Arras . 
There can be no alliance , I said , between a traitor to Helium and a prince of the House of Tardos Mors . 
I do not believe , Zat Arras , that the great Jeddak is dead . 
Zat Arras shrugged his shoulders . 
It will not be long , John Carter , he said , that your opinions will be of interest even to yourself , so make the best of them while you can . 
Zat Arras will permit you in due time to reflect further upon the magnanimous offer he has made you . 
Zat Arras clapped his hands as he ceased speaking . 
Zat Arras waved his hand in my direction . 
To the pits , he said . 
At length they halted within a fair sized chamber . 
There were rings set in the rocky walls . 
To them chains were fastened , and at the ends of many of the chains were human skeletons . 
Then they left me , taking the light with them . 
For a few minutes I could hear the clanking of accoutrements , but even this grew fainter and fainter , until at last the silence was as complete as the darkness . 
I was alone with my gruesome companions with the bones of dead men whose fate was likely but the index of my own . 
It must have been several hours later that I awakened to find a young man standing before me . 
In one hand he bore a light , in the other a receptacle containing a gruel like mixture the common prison fare of Barsoom . 
To gain your freedom you have but to request me to advise Zat Arras that you accept the terms of his proposition . 
I but shook my head . 
The youth said no more , and , after placing the food upon the floor at my side , returned up the corridor , taking the light with him . 
Twice a day for many days this youth came to my cell with food , and ever the same greetings from Zat Arras . 
For a long time I tried to engage him in conversation upon other matters , but he would not talk , and so , at length , I desisted . 
For months I sought to devise methods to inform Carthoris of my whereabouts . 
I was beside myself with anxiety for knowledge of the progress of the expedition which was to rescue Dejah Thoris . 
The chances were that that matter , too , was well known to him . 
Carthoris , Kantos Kan , Tars Tarkas , Hor Vastus , and Xodar might even now be the victims of Zat Arras' assassins , or else his prisoners . 
I determined to make at least one more effort to learn something , and to this end I adopted strategy when next the youth came to my cell . 
I had noticed that he was a handsome fellow , about the size and age of Carthoris . 
And I had also noticed that his shabby trappings but illy comported with his dignified and noble bearing . 
It was with these observations as a basis that I opened my negotiations with him upon his next subsequent visit . 
Promptly you have brought my food each day , seeing that it was pure and of sufficient quantity . 
Never by word or deed have you attempted to take advantage of my defenceless condition to insult or torture me . 
You have been uniformly courteous and considerate it is this more than any other thing which prompts my feeling of gratitude and my desire to give you some slight token of it . 
In the guard room of my palace are many fine trappings . 
Go thou there and select the harness which most pleases you it shall be yours . 
All I ask is that you wear it , that I may know that my wish has been realized . 
Tell me that you will do it . 
The boy's eyes had lighted with pleasure as I spoke , and I saw him glance from his rusty trappings to the magnificence of my own . 
No , it cannot be , though I thank you for the offer . 
Why , if Zat Arras even dreamed that I contemplated such a thing he would have my heart cut out of me . 
There can be no harm in it , my boy , I urged . 
By night you may go to my palace with a note from me to Carthoris , my son . 
You may read the note before you deliver it , that you may know that it contains nothing harmful to Zat Arras . 
My son will be discreet , and so none but us three need know . 
It is very simple , and such a harmless act that it could be condemned by no one . 
Again he stood silently in deep thought . 
And there is a jewelled short sword which I took from the body of a northern Jeddak . 
When you get the harness , see that Carthoris gives you that also . 
With it and the harness which you may select there will be no more handsomely accoutred warrior in all Zodanga . 
Bring writing materials when you come next to my cell , and within a few hours we shall see you garbed in a style befitting your birth and carriage . 
Still in thought , and without speaking , he turned and left me . 
I could not guess what his decision might be , and for hours I sat fretting over the outcome of the matter . 
If he accepted a message to Carthoris it would mean to me that Carthoris still lived and was free . 
If the youth returned wearing the harness and the sword , I would know that Carthoris had received my note and that he knew that I still lived . 
That the bearer of the note was a Zodangan would be sufficient to explain to Carthoris that I was a prisoner of Zat Arras . 
It was with feelings of excited expectancy which I could scarce hide that I heard the youth's approach upon the occasion of his next regular visit . 
I did not speak beyond my accustomed greeting of him . 
As he placed the food upon the floor by my side he also deposited writing materials at the same time . 
My heart fairly bounded for joy . 
I had won my point . 
But it meant everything to me and to Carthoris . 
I laid the note open upon the floor . 
Parthak picked it up and , without a word , left me . 
As nearly as I could estimate , I had at this time been in the pits for three hundred days . 
I could only speculate on the cause of Parthak's removal , but that it was connected in some way directly with the note I had given him was most apparent to me . 
Thirty days had passed since I had given the youth the note . 
Three hundred and thirty days had passed since my incarceration . 
As closely as I could figure , there remained a bare thirty days ere Dejah Thoris would be ordered to the arena for the rites of Issus . 
To think of that beautiful creature torn and rended by the cruel fangs of the hideous white apes ! It was unthinkable . 
I think that I should have gone crazy but for the sound of my approaching jailer . 
It distracted my attention from the terrible thoughts that had been occupying my entire mind . 
Now a new and grim determination came to me . 
I would make one super human effort to escape . 
Kill my jailer by a ruse , and trust to fate to lead me to the outer world in safety . 
With the thought came instant action . 
I threw myself upon the floor of my cell close by the wall , in a strained and distorted posture , as though I were dead after a struggle or convulsions . 
Nearer and nearer came the doomed man . 
Now I heard him halt before me . 
There was a muttered exclamation , and then a step as he came to my side . 
I felt him kneel beside me . 
My grip tightened upon the chain . 
He leaned close to me . 
I must open my eyes to find his throat , grasp it , and strike one mighty final blow all at the same instant . 
The thing worked just as I had planned . 
When I regained consciousness it was to feel a cool , firm hand pressed upon my forehead . 
For an instant I did not open my eyes . 
I was endeavouring to gather the loose ends of many thoughts and memories which flitted elusively through my tired and overwrought brain . 
I wondered who it could be who ministered to me . 
Carthoris must have had a companion whom I had not seen . 
Well , I must face the inevitable some time , so why not now , and with a sigh I opened my eyes . 
Leaning over me was Carthoris , a great bruise upon his forehead where the chain had struck , but alive , thank God , alive ! There was no one with him . 
The brief instant in which I had seen and recognized Carthoris before the chain fell must have been ample to check the force of the blow . 
He told me that he had lain unconscious for a time how long he did not know . 
How came you here at all ? I asked , mystified that he had found me without a guide . 
It was by your wit in apprising me of your existence and imprisonment through the youth , Parthak . 
Until he came for his harness and his sword , we had thought you dead . 
Then I commenced to question him , but he would give me no information as to your whereabouts . 
He was intensely loyal to Zat Arras . 
Despairing , I had him removed to the pits , where he still is . 
No threats of torture or death , no bribes , however fabulous , would move him . 
Finally , Xodar , who is a fiend for subtle craftiness , evolved a plan whereby we might worm the information from him . 
And so I caused Hor Vastus to be harnessed in the metal of a Zodangan soldier and chained in Parthak's cell beside him . 
For fifteen days the noble Hor Vastus has languished in the darkness of the pits , but not in vain . 
It took me but a short time to locate the plans of the pits of Helium among thy official papers . 
To come to you , though , was a trifle more difficult matter . 
There I left him when I had gone by , but his soul was no longer with him . 
And here I am , just in time to be nearly killed by you , he ended , laughing . 
He had brought a long sword and a dagger for me , and thus armed we set out upon the return journey to my palace . 
At the point where we left the pits of Zat Arras we found the body of the guard Carthoris had slain . 
No time was lost in fruitless recounting of my imprisonment . 
What I desired to know was how well the plans we had laid nearly a year ago and had been carried out . 
It has taken much longer than we had expected , replied Kantos Kan . 
The fact that we were compelled to maintain utter secrecy has handicapped us terribly . 
Zat Arras' spies are everywhere . 
Yet , to the best of my knowledge , no word of our real plans has reached the villain's ear . 
At Thark lie the transports for the green warriors of Tars Tarkas , nine hundred large troopships , and with them their convoys . 
Seven days ago all was in readiness , but we waited in the hope that by so doing your rescue might be encompassed in time for you to command the expedition . 
It is well we waited , my Prince . 
I have done that which I agreed . 
They are ready to sail for the Land of the First Born when I give the word and fight there until I bid them stop . 
All they ask is the loot they take and transportation to their own territories when the fighting and the looting are over . 
Each is sworn to loyalty and secrecy , nor were enough recruited from a single district to cause suspicion . 
Already the people of Hastor are questioning the purpose of so great a fleet fully manned with fighting men . 
I wonder much that word of it has not before reached Zat Arras . 
A cruiser awaits above at your own dock let us leave at A fusillade of shots from the palace gardens just without cut short his further words . 
Together we rushed to the balcony in time to see a dozen members of my palace guard disappear in the shadows of some distant shrubbery as in pursuit of one who fled . 
Directly beneath us upon the scarlet sward a handful of guardsmen were stooping above a still and prostrate form . 
While we watched they lifted the figure in their arms and at my command bore it to the audience chamber where we had been in council . 
Another of Zat Arras' spies , said Hor Vastus . 
So it would seem , I replied , and then to the guard You may remove the body . 
If you will , Prince , ask that a cloth and a little thoat oil be brought . 
I nodded to one of the soldiers , who left the chamber , returning presently with the things that Xodar had requested . 
Guardsmen and nobles pressed close about the silent witness upon the marble floor . 
Many were the exclamations of astonishment and questioning wonder as Xodar's acts confirmed the suspicion which he had held . 
A thern ! whispered Tars Tarkas . 
Worse than that , I fear , replied Xodar . 
He was a Holy Thern , said Xodar . 
Fortunate indeed it is for us that he did not escape . 
The officer of the guard entered the chamber at this juncture . 
My Prince , he said , I have to report that this fellow's companion escaped us . 
I think that it was with the connivance of one or more of the men at the gate . 
I have ordered them all under arrest . 
Xodar handed him the thoat oil and cloth . 
With this you may discover the spy among you , he said . 
I at once ordered a secret search within the city , for every Martian noble maintains a secret service of his own . 
A half hour later the officer of the guard came again to report . 
This time it was to confirm our worst fears half the guards at the gate that night had been therns disguised as red men . 
We must lose no time . 
On to Hastor at once . 
Should the therns attempt to check us at the southern verge of the ice cap it may result in the wrecking of all our plans and the total destruction of the expedition . 
Ten minutes later we were speeding through the night toward Hastor , prepared to strike the first blow for the preservation of Dejah Thoris . 
CHAPTER XX THE AIR BATTLE Two hours after leaving my palace at Helium , or about midnight , Kantos Kan , Xodar , and I arrived at Hastor . 
Carthoris , Tars Tarkas , and Hor Vastus had gone directly to Thark upon another cruiser . 
The transports were to get under way immediately and move slowly south . 
The fleet of battleships would overtake them on the morning of the second day . 
When Kantos Kan told me , I realized with a pang of dismay that I had misreckoned the time while I lay in the utter darkness of my cell . 
Three hundred and sixty five days had passed it was too late to save Dejah Thoris . 
The expedition was no longer one of rescue but of revenge . 
I did not remind Kantos Kan of the terrible fact that ere we could hope to enter the Temple of Issus , the Princess of Helium would be no more . 
In so far as I knew she might be already dead , for I did not know the exact date on which she first viewed Issus . 
What now the value of burdening my friends with my added personal sorrows they had shared quite enough of them with me in the past . 
Hereafter I would keep my grief to myself , and so I said nothing to any other of the fact that we were too late . 
Here at the bottom of a dying world was the only naturally productive area upon its surface . 
On the morning of the second day we raised the great fleet of transports and their consorts at the first flood of dawn , and soon were near enough to exchange signals . 
For so long a time has this gone on that practically every possibility of wireless communication has been exhausted and no nation dares transmit dispatches of importance in this way . 
Tars Tarkas reported all well with the transports . 
At almost the same instant another scout from the left flank came racing toward the flagship . 
His very speed bespoke the importance of his information . 
Kantos Kan and I awaited him upon the little forward deck which corresponds with the bridge of earthly battleships . 
Scarcely had his tiny flier come to rest upon the broad landing deck of the flagship ere he was bounding up the stairway to the deck where we stood . 
A great fleet of battleships south south east , my Prince , he cried . 
There must be several thousands and they are bearing down directly upon us . 
The thern spies were not in the palace of John Carter for nothing , said Kantos Kan to me . 
Dispatch ten battleships to guard the entrance to Omean , with orders to let no hostile enter or leave the shaft . 
That will bottle up the great fleet of the First Born . 
Form the balance of the battleships into a great V with the apex pointing directly south south east . 
Here let them land and teach the Holy Therns such a lesson in ferocious warfare as they will not forget for countless ages . 
Kantos Kan saluted and turned to deliver my instructions to his waiting aides . 
The order of full speed ahead was given , the fleet sprang through the air like coursing greyhounds , and in another moment the ships of the enemy were in full view . 
They formed a ragged line as far as the eye could reach in either direction and about three ships deep . 
So sudden was our onslaught that they had no time to prepare for it . 
It was as unexpected as lightning from a clear sky . 
Every phase of my plan worked splendidly . 
Now the two great fleets closed in a titanic struggle far above the fiendish din of battle in the gorgeous gardens of the therns . 
Slowly the two lines of Helium's battleships joined their ends , and then commenced the circling within the line of the enemy which is so marked a characteristic of Barsoomian naval warfare . 
Around and around in each other's tracks moved the ships under Kantos Kan , until at length they formed nearly a perfect circle . 
By this time they were moving at high speed so that they presented a difficult target for the enemy . 
Broadside after broadside they delivered as each vessel came in line with the ships of the therns . 
The latter attempted to rush in and break up the formation , but it was like stopping a buzz saw with the bare hand . 
From my position on the deck beside Kantos Kan I saw ship after ship of the enemy take the awful , sickening dive which proclaims its total destruction . 
Slowly we manoeuvered our circle of death until we hung above the gardens where our green warriors were engaged . 
The order was passed down for them to embark . 
Then they rose slowly to a position within the centre of the circle . 
In the meantime the therns' fire had practically ceased . 
They had had enough of us and were only too glad to let us go on our way in peace . 
It could be nothing other than a fleet of war . 
Whose or whither bound , we could not even conjecture . 
When they had come close enough to make us out at all , Kantos Kan's operator received a radio aerogram , which he immediately handed to my companion . 
He read the thing and handed it to me . 
Surrender , in the name of the Jeddak of Helium , for you cannot escape , and it was signed , Zat Arras . 
Ship after ship reeled and staggered into uselessness beneath the pitiless fire that we were undergoing . 
The thing could not last much longer . 
I ordered the transports to descend again into the gardens of the therns . 
Wreak your vengeance to the utmost , was my message to the green allies , for by night there will be none left to avenge your wrongs . 
Presently I saw the ten battleships that had been ordered to hold the shaft of Omean . 
They were returning at full speed , firing their stern batteries almost continuously . 
There could be but one explanation . 
They were being pursued by another hostile fleet . 
Well , the situation could be no worse . 
The expedition already was doomed . 
No man that had embarked upon it would return across that dreary ice cap . 
How I wished that I fight face Zat Arras with my longsword for just an instant before I died ! It was he who had caused our failure . 
As I watched the oncoming ten I saw their pursuers race swiftly into sight . 
In the wild lust of hand to hand combat my old dauntless hopefulness returned . 
And as thern after thern went down beneath my blade , I could almost feel that we should win success in the end , even from apparent failure . 
Then I joined Kantos Kan . 
He had been watching what had taken place on the deck below , and it seemed to have given him a new thought . 
Immediately he passed an order to one of his officers , and presently the colours of the Prince of Helium broke from every point of the flagship . 
Then Kantos Kan sprang his coup . 
A signal legible to every sailor of all the fleets engaged in that fierce struggle was strung aloft upon the flagship . 
Men of Helium for the Prince of Helium against all his enemies , it read . 
Presently my colours broke from one of Zat Arras' ships . 
Then from another and another . 
Zat Arras had brought five thousand ships . 
The sky was black with the three enormous fleets . 
It was Helium against the field now , and the fight had settled to countless individual duels . 
There could be little or no manoeuvering of fleets in that crowded , fire split sky . 
Zat Arras' flagship was close to my own . 
I could see the thin features of the man from where I stood . 
His Zodangan crew was pouring broadside after broadside into us and we were returning their fire with equal ferocity . 
Closer and closer came the two vessels until but a few yards intervened . 
Grapplers and boarders lined the contiguous rails of each . 
We were preparing for the death struggle with our hated enemy . 
There was but a yard between the two mighty ships as the first grappling irons were hurled . 
I rushed to the deck to be with my men as they boarded . 
Just as the vessels came together with a slight shock , I forced my way through the lines and was the first to spring to the deck of Zat Arras' ship . 
After me poured a yelling , cheering , cursing throng of Helium's best fighting men . 
Nothing could withstand them in the fever of battle lust which enthralled them . 
Down went the Zodangans before that surging tide of war , and as my men cleared the lower decks I sprang to the forward deck where stood Zat Arras . 
You are my prisoner , Zat Arras , I cried . 
Yield and you shall have quarter . 
For a moment I could not tell whether he contemplated acceding to my demand or facing me with drawn sword . 
For an instant he stood hesitating , and then throwing down his arms he turned and rushed to the opposite side of the deck . 
Before I could overtake him he had sprung to the rail and hurled himself headforemost into the awful depths below . 
And thus came Zat Arras , Jed of Zodanga , to his end . 
On and on went that strange battle . 
The therns and blacks had not combined against us . 
Wherever thern ship met ship of the First Born was a battle royal , and in this I thought I saw our salvation . 
I also sent an air scout to the fighting green men in the gardens below to re embark , and to the transports to join us . 
I now transferred Xodar to another battleship and sent him with all the transports and five thousand battleships directly overhead to the Temple of Issus . 
Carthoris and I , with Kantos Kan , took the remaining ships and headed for the entrance to Omean . 
Our plan now was to attempt to make a combined assault upon Issus at dawn of the following day . 
I now learned for the first time the cause of my ten ships' retreat from the mouth of the shaft . 
It seemed that when they had come upon the shaft the navy of the First Born were already issuing from its mouth . 
With great caution we approached the shaft , under cover of darkness . 
At a distance of several miles I caused the fleet to be halted , and from there Carthoris went ahead alone upon a one man flier to reconnoitre . 
And such proved to be the case . 
In fact , four hundred of my fleet of five hundred rested safely upon the bosom of Omean before the first shot was fired . 
I found the submarine in its pool , and at once placed a strong guard upon it and the island , where I remained to wait the coming of Carthoris and the others . 
Among the prisoners was Yersted , commander of the submarine . 
He recognized me from the three trips that I had taken with him during my captivity among the First Born . 
It will not be for long , John Carter , he replied . 
We have been expecting you and we are prepared . 
So it would appear , I answered , for you were all ready to become my prisoners with scarce a blow struck on either side . 
The fleet must have missed you , he said , but it will return to Omean , and then that will be a very different matter for John Carter . 
I do not know that the fleet has missed me as yet , I said , but of course he did not grasp my meaning , and only looked puzzled . 
Many prisoners travel to Issus in your grim craft , Yersted ? I asked . 
Very many , he assented . 
And they way that Issus remembers her best as the wife of one and the mother of another who raised their hands against the Goddess of Life Eternal . 
I shuddered for fear of the cowardly revenge that I knew Issus might have taken upon the innocent Dejah Thoris for the sacrilege of her son and her husband . 
It was to me as though it brought her closer to me . 
Yesterday the monthly rites of Issus were held , replied Yersted , and I saw her then sitting in her accustomed place at the foot of Issus . 
Why , no , insisted Yersted . 
It cannot have been upward of three hundred and seventy or eighty days . 
A great light burst upon me . 
How stupid I had been ! I could scarcely retain an outward exhibition of my great joy . 
In time to save your Princess ? he asked , and then without waiting for my reply , No , John Carter , Issus will not give up her own . 
You mean that she will be killed merely to thwart me ? I asked . 
Not that , other than as a last resort , he replied . 
Hast ever heard of the Temple of the Sun ? It is there that they will put her . 
Beneath it , in the ground , there lies the main body of the temple consisting in six hundred and eighty seven circular chambers , one below another . 
To each chamber a single corridor leads through solid rock from the pits of Issus . 
Here Issus puts those who displease her , but whom she does not care to execute forthwith . 
Or to punish a noble of the First Born she may cause him to be placed within a chamber of the Temple of the Sun for a year . 
Thus will Dejah Thoris die , and her fate will be sealed by the first alien foot that crosses the threshold of Issus . 
CHAPTER XXI THROUGH FLOOD AND FLAME Yersted's information convinced me that there was no time to be lost . 
I must reach the Temple of Issus secretly before the forces under Tars Tarkas assaulted at dawn . 
Many trips were required , but at last all stood safely together again at the beginning of the end of our quest . 
Five thousand strong we were , all seasoned fighting men of the most warlike race of the red men of Barsoom . 
As we were about to leave the pool and enter the corridor , an officer called my attention to the waters upon which the submarine floated . 
For a moment I did not fully grasp the terrible import of the slowly rising water . 
It was Carthoris who realized the full meaning of the thing its cause and the reason for it . 
If we delay , we all are lost . 
The pumps of Omean have been stopped . 
They would drown us like rats in a trap . 
We must reach the upper levels of the pits in advance of the flood or we shall never reach them . 
Lead the way , Carthoris , I cried . 
Before the last company filed from the chamber the water was ankle deep , and that the men were nervous was quite evident . 
Entirely unaccustomed to water except in quantities sufficient for drinking and bathing purposes the red Martians instinctively shrank from it in such formidable depths and menacing activity . 
That they were undaunted while it swirled and eddied about their ankles , spoke well for their bravery and their discipline . 
I was the last to leave the chamber of the submarine , and as I followed the rear of the column toward the corridor , I moved through water to my knees . 
The waters were now swirling about my waist . 
The men directly before me were quickly becoming panic stricken . 
Raising my voice to its utmost , I shouted my command to the dwars ahead of me . 
Call back the last twenty five utans , I shouted . 
Here seems a way of escape . 
Turn back and follow me . 
The officer saluted and left me . 
The men filed rapidly past me and entered the diverging corridor which I hoped would lead to safety . 
The water rose breast high . 
Men stumbled , floundered , and went down . 
Many I grasped and set upon their feet again , but alone the work was greater than I could cope with . 
Soldiers were being swept beneath the boiling torrent , never to rise . 
At length the dwar of the th utan took a stand beside me . 
He was a valorous soldier , Gur Tus by name , and together we kept the now thoroughly frightened troops in the semblance of order and rescued many that would have drowned otherwise . 
Djor Kantos , son of Kantos Kan , and a padwar of the fifth utan joined us when his utan reached the opening through which the men were fleeing . 
Thereafter not a man was lost of all the hundreds that remained to pass from the main corridor to the branch . 
Here we found an immediate and steep ascent , so that within a hundred yards we had reached a point above the waters . 
For a few minutes we continued rapidly up the steep grade , which I hoped would soon bring us quickly to the upper pits that let into the Temple of Issus . 
But I was to meet with a cruel disappointment . 
At last the report came back to us . 
They have fired the pits ahead . 
We are hemmed in by flames in front and flood behind . 
There was naught to do other than seek a new avenue of escape . 
Again I stood to one side while the soldiers hastened through on the new way . 
Having satisfied my sense of duty , I turned and ran rapidly back to the corridor through which my men had passed . 
And now the dropping of the steel gate to pen me effectually between fire and flood seemed to indicate that invisible eyes were upon us at every moment . 
What chance had I , then , to rescue Dejah Thoris were I to be compelled to fight foes who never showed themselves . 
A thousand times I berated myself for being drawn into such a trap as I might have known these pits easily could be . 
The smoke from the fire was forcing me further and further back down the corridor toward the waters which I could hear surging through the darkness . 
With my men had gone the last torch , nor was this corridor lighted by the radiance of phosphorescent rock as were those of the lower levels . 
It was this fact that assured me that I was not far from the upper pits which lie directly beneath the temple . 
Finally I felt the lapping waters about my feet . 
The smoke was thick behind me . 
But to my surprise I ran against a blank wall before I reached a point where the waters came to the roof of the corridor . 
Could I be mistaken ? I felt around . 
No , I had come to the main corridor , and still there was a breathing space between the surface of the water and the rocky ceiling above . 
And then I turned up the main corridor in the direction that Carthoris and the head of the column had passed a half hour before . 
But even as hope was at its highest I felt the sudden shock of contact as my head struck the rocks above . 
The worst , then , had come to me . 
I had reached one of those rare places where a Martian tunnel dips suddenly to a lower level . 
Filling my lungs with air , I dived beneath the surface and swam through the inky , icy blackness on and on along the submerged gallery . 
Time and time again I rose with upstretched hand , only to feel the disappointing rocks close above me . 
Not for much longer would my lungs withstand the strain upon them . 
I felt that I must soon succumb , nor was there any retreating now that I had gone this far . 
I knew positively that I could never endure to retrace my path now to the point from which I had felt the waters close above my head . 
Death stared me in the face , nor ever can I recall a time that I so distinctly felt the icy breath from his dead lips upon my brow . 
One more frantic effort I made with my fast ebbing strength . 
Sooner than I had expected I came to what appeared to me to be a sudden exit into the temple above . 
It was at the right side of the corridor , which ran on , probably , to other entrances to the pile above . 
To me one point was as good as another . 
The portal swung slowly in , and before it could be slammed against me I sprang into the chamber beyond . 
Although not yet dawn , the room was brilliantly lighted . 
Its sole occupant lay prone upon a low couch at the further side , apparently in sleep . 
From the hangings and sumptuous furniture of the room I judged it to be a living room of some priestess , possibly of Issus herself . 
At the thought the blood tingled through my veins . 
What , indeed , if fortune had been kind enough to place the hideous creature alone and unguarded in my hands . 
With her as hostage I could force acquiescence to my every demand . 
Cautiously I approached the recumbent figure , on noiseless feet . 
At first an expression of terror overspread the features of the woman who confronted me then startled incredulity hope thanksgiving . 
CHAPTER XXII VICTORY AND DEFEAT John Carter , John Carter , she sobbed , with her dear head upon my shoulder even now I can scarce believe the witness of my own eyes . 
As the days passed , and moon after moon went by without bringing even the faintest rumour of you , I resigned myself to my fate . 
And now that you have come , scarce can I believe it . 
For an hour I have heard the sounds of conflict within the palace . 
I knew not what they meant , but I have hoped against hope that it might be the men of Helium headed by my Prince . 
And tell me , what of Carthoris , our son ? He was with me less than an hour since , Dejah Thoris , I replied . 
It must have been he whose men you have heard battling within the precincts of the temple . 
Where is Issus ? I asked suddenly . 
Dejah Thoris shrugged her shoulders . 
She sent me under guard to this room just before the fighting began within the temple halls . 
She said that she would send for me later . 
She seemed very angry and somewhat fearful . 
Never have I seen her act in so uncertain and almost terrified a manner . 
The sounds of conflict , the clash of arms , the shouting and the hurrying of many feet came to us from various parts of the temple . 
I knew that I was needed there , but I dared not leave Dejah Thoris , nor dared I take her with me into the turmoil and danger of battle . 
At last I bethought me of the pits from which I had just emerged . 
Why not secrete her there until I could return and fetch her away in safety and for ever from this awful place . 
I explained my plan to her . 
For a moment she clung more closely to me . 
I cannot bear to be parted from you now , even for a moment , John Carter , she said . 
I shudder at the thought of being alone again where that terrible creature might discover me . 
You do not know her . 
None can imagine her ferocious cruelty who has not witnessed her daily acts for over half a year . 
It has taken me nearly all this time to realize even the things that I have seen with my own eyes . 
I shall not leave you , then , my Princess , I replied . 
She was silent for a moment , then she drew my face to hers and kissed me . 
Go , John Carter , she said . 
Our son is there , and the soldiers of Helium , fighting for the Princess of Helium . 
Where they are you should be . 
I must not think of myself now , but of them and of my husband's duty . 
I may not stand in the way of that . 
Hide me in the pits , and go . 
I led her to the door through which I had entered the chamber from below . 
Without hesitating longer , I hurried from the chamber in the direction of the greatest tumult . 
Scarce half a dozen chambers had I traversed before I came upon the theatre of a fierce struggle . 
Five hundred men fought there that day , the black men against the red . 
No man asked quarter or gave it . 
As though by common assent they fought , as though to determine once and for all their right to live , in accordance with the law of the survival of the fittest . 
I think we all knew that upon the outcome of this battle would hinge for ever the relative positions of these two races upon Barsoom . 
It was a battle between the old and the new , but not for once did I question the outcome of it . 
With Carthoris at my side I fought for the red men of Barsoom and for their total emancipation from the throttling bondage of a hideous superstition . 
As we swung toward the great windows which overlooked the gardens of Issus a sight met my gaze which sent a wave of exultation over me . 
It was Tars Tarkas , Jeddak of Thark , and as he couched his great forty foot metal shod lance we saw his warriors do likewise . 
Then it was that we interpreted his command . 
Twenty yards now separated the green men from the black line . 
Another word from the great Thark , and with a wild and terrifying battle cry the green warriors charged . 
For a moment the black line held , but only for a moment then the fearsome beasts that bore equally terrible riders passed completely through it . 
After them came utan upon utan of red men . 
The green horde broke to surround the temple . 
The red men charged for the interior , and then we turned to continue our interrupted battle but our foes had vanished . 
My first thought was of Dejah Thoris . 
Calling to Carthoris that I had found his mother , I started on a run toward the chamber where I had left her , with my boy close beside me . 
After us came those of our little force who had survived the bloody conflict . 
The moment I entered the room I saw that some one had been there since I had left . 
A silk lay upon the floor . 
It had not been there before . 
There were also a dagger and several metal ornaments strewn about as though torn from their wearer in a struggle . 
But worst of all , the door leading to the pits where I had hidden my Princess was ajar . 
With a bound I was before it , and , thrusting it open , rushed within . 
I called her name aloud again and again , but there was no response . 
I think in that instant I hovered upon the verge of insanity . 
I do not recall what I said or did , but I know that for an instant I was seized with the rage of a maniac . 
Issus ! Where is Issus ? Search the temple for her , but let no man harm her but John Carter . 
As fast as he went , however , I was still beside him , urging him on to greater speed . 
At last we came to a great carved door , and through this Carthoris dashed , a foot ahead of me . 
We did not even give the men a chance to draw , so quickly were we upon them . 
With a single cut I struck down two in the front rank . 
And then by the mere weight and momentum of my body , I rushed completely through the two remaining ranks and sprang upon the dais beside the carved sorapus throne . 
The repulsive creature , squatting there in terror , attempted to escape me and leap into a trap behind her . 
But this time I was not to be outwitted by any such petty subterfuge . 
Back ! I cried to them . 
Back ! The first black foot that is planted upon this platform sends my dagger into Issus' heart . 
For an instant they hesitated . 
Where is Dejah Thoris ? I cried to the thing within my hands . 
For a moment her eyes roved wildly about the scene beneath her . 
Issus , thy people depend upon thee . 
Daughter of the Lesser Moon , thou only art all powerful . 
Thou only canst save thy people . 
Strike ! And then it was that she went mad . 
A screaming , gibbering maniac writhed in my grasp . 
It bit and clawed and scratched in impotent fury . 
And then it laughed a weird and terrible laughter that froze the blood . 
The slave girls upon the dais shrieked and cowered away . 
And the thing jumped at them and gnashed its teeth and then spat upon them from frothing lips . 
God , but it was a horrid sight . 
Finally , I shook the thing , hoping to recall it for a moment to rationality . 
Where is Dejah Thoris ? I cried again . 
The awful creature in my grasp mumbled inarticulately for a moment , then a sudden gleam of cunning shot into those hideous , close set eyes . 
Dejah Thoris ? Dejah Thoris ? and then that shrill , unearthly laugh pierced our ears once more . 
Yes , Dejah Thoris I know . 
And Thuvia , and Phaidor , daughter of Matai Shang . 
They each love John Carter . 
Ha ah ! but it is droll . 
Together for a year they will meditate within the Temple of the Sun , but ere the year is quite gone there will be no more food for them . 
Ho oh ! what divine entertainment , and she licked the froth from her cruel lips . 
There will be no more food except each other . 
Ha ah ! Ha ah ! The horror of the suggestion nearly paralysed me . 
To this awful fate the creature within my power had condemned my Princess . 
I trembled in the ferocity of my rage . 
As a terrier shakes a rat I shook Issus , Goddess of Life Eternal . 
Countermand your orders ! I cried . 
Haste , or you die ! It is too late . 
Ha ah ! Ha ah ! and then she commenced her gibbering and shrieking again . 
Almost of its own volition , my dagger flew up above that putrid heart . 
But something stayed my hand , and I am now glad that it did . 
It were a terrible thing to have struck down a woman with one's own hand . 
But a fitter fate occurred to me for this false deity . 
First Born , I cried , turning to those who stood within the chamber , you have seen to day the impotency of Issus the gods are impotent . 
She is a cruel and wicked old woman , who has deceived and played upon you for ages . 
The black led us rapidly through the inner chambers of the temple , until we stood within the central court a great circular space paved with a transparent marble of exquisite whiteness . 
This way , cried Xodar , leading us toward the entrance to a tunnel which opened in the courtyard beside the temple . 
The blacks have fired the temple , he cried . 
In a thousand places it is burning now . 
Haste to the outer gardens , or you are lost . 
Go back ! Go back ! I cried to those who had accompanied me . 
The way ! Xodar point the way and leave me . 
I shall reach my Princess yet . 
Follow me , John Carter , replied Xodar , and without waiting for my reply he dashed down into the tunnel at our feet . 
Massive bars blocked our further progress , but beyond I saw her my incomparable Princess , and with her were Thuvia and Phaidor . 
When she saw me she rushed toward the bars that separated us . 
Already the chamber had turned upon its slow way so far that but a portion of the opening in the temple wall was opposite the barred end of the corridor . 
Slowly the interval was closing . 
But in the meantime what horrible things would go on within that chamber ! Xodar ! I cried . 
After he had left I stood and talked with Dejah Thoris , and she stretched her dear hand through those cruel bars that I might hold it until the last moment . 
Thuvia and Phaidor came close also , but when Thuvia saw that we would be alone she withdrew to the further side of the chamber . 
Not so the daughter of Matai Shang . 
John Carter , she said , this be the last time that you shall see any of us . 
Tell me that you love me , that I may die happy . 
I love only the Princess of Helium , I replied quietly . 
I am sorry , Phaidor , but it is as I have told you from the beginning . 
She bit her lip and turned away , but not before I saw the black and ugly scowl she turned upon Dejah Thoris . 
Thereafter she stood a little way apart , but not so far as I should have desired , for I had many little confidences to impart to my long lost love . 
For a few minutes we stood thus talking in low tones . 
Ever smaller and smaller grew the opening . 
In a short time now it would be too small even to permit the slender form of my Princess to pass . 
Oh , why did not Xodar haste . 
Above we could hear the faint echoes of a great tumult . 
It was the multitude of black and red and green men fighting their way through the fire from the burning Temple of Issus . 
A draught from above brought the fumes of smoke to our nostrils . 
As we stood waiting for Xodar the smoke became thicker and thicker . 
Presently we heard shouting at the far end of the corridor , and hurrying feet . 
Come back , John Carter , come back ! cried a voice , even the pits are burning . 
In a moment a dozen men broke through the now blinding smoke to my side . 
There was Carthoris , and Kantos Kan , and Hor Vastus , and Xodar , with a few more who had followed me to the temple court . 
There is no hope , John Carter , cried Xodar . 
The keeper of the keys is dead and his keys are not upon his carcass . 
Our only hope is to quench this conflagration and trust to fate that a year will find your Princess alive and well . 
I have brought sufficient food to last them . 
When this crack closes no smoke can reach them , and if we hasten to extinguish the flames I believe they will be safe . 
Go , then , yourself and take these others with you , I replied . 
I shall remain here beside my Princess until a merciful death releases me from my anguish . 
I care not to live . 
As I spoke Xodar had been tossing a great number of tiny cans within the prison cell . 
The remaining crack was not over an inch in width a moment later . 
Dejah Thoris stood as close to it as she could , whispering words of hope and courage to me , and urging me to save myself . 
Suddenly beyond her I saw the beautiful face of Phaidor contorted into an expression of malign hatred . 
As my eyes met hers she spoke . 
Think not , John Carter , that you may so lightly cast aside the love of Phaidor , daughter of Matai Shang . 
Nor ever hope to hold thy Dejah Thoris in thy arms again . 
Wait you the long , long year but know that when the waiting is over it shall be Phaidor's arms which shall welcome you not those of the Princess of Helium . 
Behold , she dies ! And as she finished speaking I saw her raise a dagger on high , and then I saw another figure . 
As the dagger fell toward the unprotected breast of my love , Thuvia was almost between them . 
A blinding gust of smoke blotted out the tragedy within that fearsome cell a shriek rang out , a single shriek , as the dagger fell . 
The smoke cleared away , but we stood gazing upon a blank wall . 
The last crevice had closed , and for a long year that hideous chamber would retain its secret from the eyes of men . 
They urged me to leave . 
In a moment it will be too late , cried Xodar . 
There is , in fact , but a bare chance that we can come through to the outer garden alive even now . 
I have ordered the pumps started , and in five minutes the pits will be flooded . 
If we would not drown like rats in a trap we must hasten above and make a dash for safety through the burning temple . 
Go , I urged them . 
Let me die here beside my Princess there is no hope or happiness elsewhere for me . 
When they carry her dear body from that terrible place a year hence let them find the body of her lord awaiting her . 
Of what happened after that I have only a confused recollection . 
It seems as though I struggled with many men , and then that I was picked bodily from the ground and borne away . 
