Where he had lately been washing tentatively the sand along Snake River , he built a ranch . 
They felt that fate had cheated them did those five sons for they had been born a few years too late for the fun . 
Not one of them would ever have earned the title of Peaceful , as had his father . 
He used to suck at his old , straight stemmed pipe and regard them with a bewildered curiosity sometimes but he never tried to put his puzzlement into speech . 
The nearest he ever came to elucidation , perhaps , was when he turned from them and let his pale blue eyes dwell speculatively upon the face of his wife , Phoebe . 
Clearly he considered that she was responsible for their dispositions . 
Strangers used to keep a wary eye upon that bluff , as if they never felt quite safe from its menace . 
Coyotes skulked there , and tarantulas and bobcats and snakes . 
Once an outlaw hid there for days , within sight and hearing of the house , and stole bread from Phoebe's pantry at night but that is a story in itself . 
There was fruit cake always hidden away in stone jars , and cheese , and buttermilk , and cream . 
Peaceful Hart must have had a streak of poetry somewhere hidden away in his silent soul . 
Their slender shadows lay , like gigantic fingers , far up the bluff when the sun sank low in the afternoon . 
Behind them grew a small jungle of trees catalpa and locust among them a jungle which surrounded the house , and in summer hid it from sight entirely . 
It was an ideal place for hammocks and romance a place where dainty maidens might dream their way to womanhood . 
They liked the place well enough . 
There were plenty of shady places to lie and smoke in when the mercury went sizzling up its tiny tube . 
Sometimes , when there was a dance , they would choose the best of Phoebe's roses to decorate their horses' bridles and perhaps their hatbands , also . 
Outside the fence dwelt sturdier , Western realities . 
Once the gate swung shut upon the grove one blinked in the garish sunlight of the plains . 
There began the real ranch world . 
By devious turnings and breath taking climbs , the trail finally reached the top at the only point for miles , where it was possible for a horseman to pass up or down . 
Such was the Peaceful Hart Ranch , conjured from the sage and the sand in the valley of the Snake . 
CHAPTER II GOOD INDIAN There is a saying and if it is not purely Western , it is at least purely American that the only good Indian is a dead Indian . 
Old John Imsen was steeped in knowledge of the open nothing of the great outdoors had ever slipped past him and remained mysterious . 
John Imsen had stared down suspiciously at the words , and he had not felt quite easy in his mind until the bag of gold coins was actually in his keeping . 
His face had gone darkly red with the shame of it , and he had stood scowling down at the paper . 
That boy uh mine's goin' to do better 'n that , by God ! he had sworn , and the words had sounded like a vow . 
He called Phoebe close to the bed , placed the bag of gold in Grant's trembling hands , and stared intently from one face to the other . 
Mis' Hart , he ain't got anybody my folks I lost track of 'em years ago . 
You see to it git some learnin' in his head . 
When a man knows books it's like bein' heeled good gun plenty uh ca't'idges in a fight . 
When I got that gold it was like fightin' with my bare hands against a gatlin' gun . 
They coulda cheated me whole thing on paper I wouldn't know luck just luck they didn't . 
So you take it and git the boy schoolin' . 
Costs money I know that git him all it'll buy . 
Send him where they keep the best . 
Don't yuh let up n'er let him whilst they's a dollar left . 
Put it all into his head then he can't lose it , and he can make it earn more . 
An' I guess I needn't ask yuh be good to him . 
He ain't got anybody not a soul Injuns don't count . 
You see to it don't let up till it's all gone . 
Phoebe had taken him literally . 
His father would probably have been amazed to see how little difference that schooling made in the boy . 
Even the whisky was so warm it burned like fire , and the beer he tried left upon his outraged palate the unhappy memory of insipid warmth and great bitterness . 
How much ? The braided one fingered indecisively the broad brim of a gray sombrero . 
Pete leaned heavily against the shelves behind him and sighed with the weariness of mere living . 
Huh ! All same buy one good hoss . 
The braided one dropped the hat , hitched his blanket over his shoulder in stoical disregard of the heat , and turned away . 
Pete replaced the cover , seemed about to place the box upon the shelf behind him , and then evidently decided that it was not worth the effort . 
It is almighty hot , he mumbled languidly . 
Want another drink , Good Injun ? I do not . 
Hot toddy never did appeal to me , my friend . 
If you weren't too lazy to give orders , Pete , you'd have cold beer for a day like this . 
You'd give Saunders something to do beside lie in the shade and tell what kind of a man he used to be before his lungs went to the bad . 
Make him pack this stuff down cellar where it isn't two hundred in the shade . 
Why don't you ? We was going to get ice t'day , but they didn't throw it off when the train went through . 
That's comforting to a man with a thirst like the great Sahara . 
If you're going down to the ranch , he added , by way of changing the subject , there's some mail you might as well take along . 
Sure , I'm going for a drink out of that spring , if nothing else . 
You've lost a good customer to day , Pete . 
I rode up here prepared to get sinfully jagged and here I've got to go on a still hunt for water with a chill to it or maybe buttermilk . 
Pete , do you know what I think of you and your joint ? I told you I don't wanta know . 
Some folks ain't never satisfied . 
A fellow that's rode thirty or forty miles to get here , on a day like this , had oughta be glad to get anything that looks like beer . 
Is that so ? Grant walked purposefully down to the front of the store , where Pete was fumbling behind the rampart of crude pigeonholes which was the post office . 
She was rather tall , rather strong and capable looking , and she was bareheaded , and carried a door key suspended from a smooth worn bit of wood . 
Don't get into a perspiration making up the mail , Pete , she advised calmly , quite ignoring both Grant and the Indian . 
Fifteen is an hour late as usual . 
Jockey Bates always seems to be under the impression he's an undertaker's assistant , and is headed for the graveyard when he takes fifteen out . 
He'll get the can , first he knows and he'll put in a month or two wondering why . 
I could make better time than he does myself . 
Pete , grinning indulgently , came out of retirement behind the pigeonholes , and looked inquiringly around the store . 
I've got cards , he suggested . 
What's the matter with a game of solitary ? I've known men to put in hull winters alone , up in the mountains , jest eating and sleeping and playin' solitary . 
The young woman made a grimace of disgust . 
I've come from three solid hours of it . 
What I really do want is something to read . 
Haven't you even got an almanac ? Saunders is readin' 'The Brokenhearted Bride' you can have it soon's he's through . 
He says it's a peach . 
Fifteen is bringing up a bunch of magazines . 
I'll have reading in plenty two hours from now but my heavens above , those two hours ! She struck both fists despairingly upon the counter . 
I've got gumdrops , and fancy mixed Forget it , then . 
A five pound box of chocolates is due on fifteen . 
I wish you weren't so old , and hadn't quite so many chins , Pete , she complained . 
I'd inveigle you into a flirtation . 
You see how desperate I am for something to do ! Pete smiled unhappily . 
He was sensitive about all those chins , and the general bulk which accompanied them . 
Let me make you acquainted with my friend , Good In er Mr. Imsen . 
Pete considered that he was behaving with great discernment and tact . 
This is Miss Georgie Howard , the new operator . 
He twinkled his little eyes at her maliciously . 
Say , he ain't got but one chin , and he's only twenty three years old . 
He felt that the inference was too plain to be ignored . 
She turned her head slowly and looked Grant over with an air of disparagement , while she nodded negligently as an acknowledgment to the introduction . 
Pete thinks he's awfully witty , she remarked . 
Pete bristled as much as a fat man could bristle on so hot a day . 
Well , you said you wanted to flirt , and so I took it for granted you'd like Good Indian looked straight past the girl , and scowled at Pete . 
Pete , you're an idiot ordinarily , but when you try to be smart you're absolutely insufferable . 
You're mentally incapable of recognizing the line of demarcation between legitimate persiflage and objectionable familiarity . 
An ignoramus of your particular class ought to confine his repartee to unqualified affirmation or the negative monosyllable . 
I guess that ought to hold you for a while , Pete , Miss Georgie approved under her breath , and stared after Grant curiously . 
'You're mentally incapable of recognizing the line of demarcation between legitimate persiflage and objectionable familiarity . 
I'll bet two bits you don't know what that means , Pete but it hits you off exactly . 
Who is this Mr. Imsen ? She got no reply to that . 
Indeed , she did not wait for a reply . 
Outside , things were happening and , since Miss Georgie was dying of dullness , she hailed the disturbance as a Heaven sent blessing , and ran to see what was going on . 
Briefly , Grant had inadvertently stepped on a sleeping dog's paw a dog of the mongrel breed which infests Indian camps , and which had attached itself to the blanketed buck inside . 
The dog awoke with a yelp , saw that it was a stranger who had perpetrated the outrage , and straightway fastened its teeth in the leg of Grant's trousers . 
Grant kicked it loose , and when it came at him again , he swore vengeance and mounted his horse in haste . 
He did not say a word . 
Turn him loose , I tell yuh ! A helpless critter like that you oughta be ashamed abusin' dumb animals that can't fight back ! Oh , can't he ? Grant laughed grimly . 
You turn that dog loose ! Saunders became vehement , and paid the penalty of a paroxysm of coughing . 
You go to the devil . 
If you were an able bodied man , I'd get you , too just to have a pair of you . 
Yelping , snapping curs , both of you . 
He played the dog as a fisherman plays a trout . 
That dog , him Viney dog . 
You no killum , Good Injun . 
The Indian , his arms folded in his blanket , stood upon the porch watching calmly the fun . 
Viney all time heap mad , you killum , he added indifferently . 
Sure it isn't old Hagar's ? No b'long um Hagar b'long um Viney . 
Grant hesitated , circling erratically with his victim close to the steps . 
All right , no killum teachum lesson , though . 
Viney heap bueno squaw heap likum Viney . 
No likum dog , though . 
Dog all time come along me . 
He glanced up , passed over the fact that Miss Georgie Howard was watching him and clapping her hands enthusiastically at the spectacle , and settled an unfriendly stare upon Saunders . 
You shut up your yowling . 
You'll burst a blood vessel and go to heaven , first thing you know . 
I've never contemplated hiring you as my guardian angel , you blatting buck sheep . 
Go off and lie down somewhere . 
He turned in the saddle and looked down at the dog , clawing and fighting the rope which held him fast just back of the shoulder blades . 
Come along , doggie NICE doggie ! he grinned , and touched his horse with the spurs . 
With one leap , it was off at a sharp gallop , up over the hill and through the sagebrush to where he knew the Indian camp must be . 
ShriLL clamor filled the sultry air . 
Grant pulled his horse to a restive stand before a group of screeching squaws , and laughed outright at the panic of them . 
Hello ! Viney ! I brought back your dog , he drawled . 
He tried to bite me heap kay bueno dog . 
Me no hurtum all time him Hartley , all time him try hard bite me . 
Sleeping Turtle tell me him Viney dog . 
he likum Viney , me no kill Viney dog . 
You all time mebbyso eat that dog sabe ? No keep Kay bueno . 
All time try for bite . 
You cookum , no can bite . 
The Indians of southern Idaho spoke a somewhat mixed dialect . 
, their word for 'good , undoubtedly being taken from the Spanish language . 
I believe the word kay to be Indian . 
In speaking English they appear to have no other way of expressing , in a single phrase , their like or dislike of an object or person . 
When he reached the first steep descent , however , he remembered that Pete had spoken of some mail for the Harts , and turned back to get it . 
Also , Pete intimated that there was a good chance of prevailing upon the dining car conductor to throw off a chunk of ice . 
Grant , therefore , led his horse around into the shade , and made himself comfortable while he waited . 
The Hart boys were assembled at the corral , halter breaking a three year old for the pure fun of it . 
Looks like old Wolfbelly's back , Clark observed needlessly . 
Donny , if they don't go to the house right away , you go and tell mum they're here . 
Chances are the whole bunch'll hang around till supper . 
Say ! Gene giggled with fourteen year old irrepressibility . 
I said Good Injun was the only one that's dangerous oh , I sure did throw a good stiff load , all right ! Clark grinned at the memory . 
I've got to see Grant first , when he gets back , and put him wise to the rep he's got . 
Vad didn't hardly swallow it . 
She said 'Why , Cousin Clark ! Aunt Phoebe says he's perfectly lovely ! Clark mimicked the girl's voice with relish . 
Aw there's a lot of squaws tagging along behind ! Donny complained disgustedly from his post of observation on the fence . 
They'll go to the house first thing to gabble there's old Hagar waddling along like a duck . 
You can't make that warpath business stick , Clark not with all them squaws . 
Well , say , you sneak up and hide somewhere till yuh see if Vadnie's anywhere around . 
If they get settled down talking to mum , they're good for an hour she's churning , Don you hide in the rocks by the milk house till they get settled . 
The group of Indians came up , huddled at the corral , and peered through the stout rails . 
How ! How ! chorused the boys , and left the horse for a moment while they shook hands ceremoniously with the three bucks . 
Three Indians , Clark decided regretfully , would make a tame showing on the warpath , however much they might lend themselves to the spirit of the joke . 
He did not quite know how he was going to manage it , but he was hopeful still . 
It was unthinkable that real live Indians should be permitted to come and go upon the ranch without giving Evadna Ramsey , straight from New Jersey , the scare of her life . 
The squaws hovered there for a moment longer , peeping through the rails . 
At the top of the short flight of wide stone steps they stopped and huddled silently , until the black shadow of them warned Phoebe of their presence . 
How , Hagar ? How , Viney ? How , Lucy ? Heap glad to see you . 
Bueno buttermilk mebbyso you drinkum ? However diffident they might be when it came to announcing their arrival , their bashfulness did not extend to accepting offers of food or drink . 
Three brown hands were eagerly outstretched though it was the hand of Hagar which grasped first the big tin cup . 
They not only drank , they guzzled , and afterward drew a fold of blanket across their milk white lips , and grinned in pure animal satisfaction . 
He e ap bueno ! they chorused appreciatively , and squatted at the top of the stone steps , watching Phoebe manipulate the great ball of yellow butter in its wooden bowl . 
Mebbyso Tom , mebbyso Sharlie , mebbyso Sleeping Turtle all time come along , she announced . 
Stop all time corral , talk yo' boys . 
Mebbyso heap likum drink yo' butter water . 
When Phoebe nodded assent , Hagar went on to the news which had brought her so soon to the ranch the news which satisfied both an old grudge and her love of gossip . 
Good Injun , him all time heap kay bueno , she stated emphatically , her sloe black eyes fixed unwaveringly upon Phoebe's face to see if the stab was effective . 
Good Injun come Hartley , all time drunk likum pig . 
All time heap yell , heap shoot kay bueno . 
Wantum fight Man that coughs . 
Come all time camp , heap yell , heap shoot some more . 
I fetchum dog Viney dog heap dragum through sagebrush dog all time cry , no can get away me thinkum kill that dog . 
Squaws cry Viney cry Good Injun Hagar paused here for greater effect makum horse all time buck ridum in wikiup Hagar wikiup all time breakum no can fix that wikiup . 
Good Injun , hee e ap kay bueno ! At the last her voice was high and tremulous with anger . 
Good Indian mebbyso all same my boy Wally . 
Phoebe gave the butter a vicious slap . 
Me heap love Good Indian . 
You no call Good Indian , you call Grant . 
No drunk , no yell , no shoot , mebbyso she hesitated , knowing well the possibilities of her foster son mebbyso catchum dog me think no catchum . 
Grant all same my boy . 
All time me likum heap bueno . 
Viney and Lucy nudged each other and tittered into their blankets , for the argument was an old one between Hagar and Phoebe , though the grievance of Hagar might be fresh . 
Hagar shifted her blanket and thrust out a stubborn under lip . 
Wally boy , heap bueno , she said and her malicious old face softened as she spoke of him , dear as her own first born . 
Jack bueno , mebbyso Gene bueno , mebbyso Clark , mebbyso Donny all time bueno . 
Doubt was in her voice when she praised those last two , however , because of their continual teasing . 
She stopped short to emphasize the damning contrast . 
Good Injun all same mebbyso yo' boy Grant , hee ee eap kay bueno . 
Phoebe in her earnestness forgot to keep within the limitations of their dialect . 
Grant's a good boy , and a smart boy . 
There isn't a better hearted fellow in the country , if I have got five boys of my own . 
You think I like him better than I like Wally , is all ails you , Hagar . 
You're jealous of Grant , and you always have been , ever since his father left him with me . 
I hope my heart's big enough to hold them all . 
She remembered then that they could not understand half she was saying , and appealed to Viney . 
Viney , you tell me . 
Grant no come Hartley , no drunk , no yell , no catchum you dog , no ride in Hagar's wikiup ? You tell me , Viney . 
Viney and Lucy bobbed their heads rapidly up and down . 
Viney , with a sidelong glance at Hagar , spoke softly . 
Good Injun Grant , mebbyso home Hartley , she admitted reluctantly , as if she would have been pleased to prove Hagar a liar in all things . 
Mebbyso ketchum dog dog kay bueno , mebbyso me killing . 
Good Injun Grant no heap yell , no shoot all time mebbyso no drunk . 
Hagar interrupted shrilly then , and Viney relapsed into silence , her thin face growing sullen under the upbraiding she received in her native tongue . 
Phoebe , looking at her attentively , despaired of getting any nearer the truth from any of them . 
There was a sudden check to Hagar's shrewish clamor . 
The squaws stiffened to immobility and listened stolidly , their eyes alone betraying the curiosity they felt . 
That my girl , Phoebe explained , stopping the soft pat pat of her butter ladle . 
Where ketchum yo' girl ? Hagar forgot her petulance , and became curious as any white woman . 
Me ketchum 'way off , where sun come up . 
In time me have heap boys mebbyso want girl all time . 
My mother's sister's boy have one girl , 'way off where sun come up . 
My mother's sister's boy die , his wife all same die , that girl mebbyso heap sad no got father , no got mother all time got nobody . 
That girl send one letter , say all time got nobody . 
Me send one letter , tell that girl come , be all time my girl . 
Five days ago , that girl come . 
Her heap glad boys all time heap glad , my man heap glad . 
Mebbyso you glad me have one girl . 
Not that their approval was necessary , or even of much importance but Phoebe was accustomed to treat them like spoiled children . 
Hagar's lip was out thrust again . 
Yo' ketchum one girl , mebbyso yo' no more likum my boy Wally . 
Heap like all my boys jus' same , Phoebe hastened to assure her , and added with a hint of malice , Heap like my boy Grant all same . 
Huh ! Hagar chose to remain unconvinced and antagonistic . 
Yo' girl , mebbyso kay bueno . 
What name yo' girl ? Viney interposed hastily . 
In spite of herself , Phoebe felt a trifle chilled by their lack of enthusiasm . 
She went back to her butter making in dignified silence . 
The squaws blinked at her stolidly . 
Always they were inclined toward suspicion of strangers , and perhaps to a measure of jealousy as well . 
But they never stole from the Harts , and they never openly begged from the Harts . 
The friends of the Harts , however , must prove their friendship before they could hope for better than an imperturbable neutrality . 
So they would not pretend to be glad . 
Hagar was right perhaps the girl was no good . 
They would wait until they could pass judgment upon this girl who had come to live in the wikiup of the Harts . 
Then Lucy , she who longed always for children and had been denied by fate , stirred slightly , her nostrils aquiver . 
Mebbyso bueno yo' girl , , she yielded , speaking softly . 
Phoebe's face cleared , and she called , in mellow crescendo Oh , Va ad NIEE ? Immediately the singing stopped . 
Coming , Aunt Phoebe , answered the voice . 
Vadnie , here are some new neighbors I want you to get acquainted with . 
Phoebe's eyes besought the girl to be calm . 
They're all old friends of mine . 
Viney , reading Evadna's face in one keen , upward glance , kept her hands hidden in the folds of her blanket , and only nodded twice reassuringly . 
Lucy read also the girl's face but she reached up , pressed her hand gently , and her glance was soft and friendly . 
So the ordeal was over . 
Bring some of that cake you baked to day , honey and do brace up ! Phoebe patted her upon the shoulder . 
Hagar forestalled the hospitable intent by getting slowly upon her fat legs , shaking her hair out of her eyes , and grunting a command to the others . 
With visible reluctance Lucy and Viney rose also , hitched their blankets into place , and vanished , soft footed as they had come . 
Oo oo ! Evadna stared at the place where they were not . 
Wild Indians I thought the boys were just teasing when they said so and it's really true , Aunt Phoebe ? They're no wilder than you are , Phoebe retorted impatiently . 
Oh , they ARE wild . 
I've known old Hagar ever since Wally was a baby . 
Lucy I've known since she was a papoose . 
If they don't , there's nothing they WILL do . 
Fighting his way to the milk house , he dragged the squaw along beside the porch , followed by the Indians and all the Hart boys , a yelling , jeering audience . 
You tell her shont isham ! Ah h you can't break loose , you old she wildcat . 
Evadna had taken refuge there and he pressed her hard against the rough wall without in the least realizing that anything was behind him save unsentient stone . 
Now , you sing your little song , and be quick about it ! he commanded his captive sternly . 
You tell Mother Hart you lied . 
I hear she's been telling you I'm drunk , Mother Hart didn't you , you old beldam ? You say you heap sorry you all time tellum lie . 
You say 'Good Injun , him all time heap bueno . 
Say 'Good Injun no drunk , no heap shoot , no heap yell all time bueno . 
Quick , or I'll land you headforemost in that pond , you infernal old hag ! Good Injun hee eeap kay bueno ! Heap debbil all time . 
Hagar might be short of breath , but her spirit was unconquered , and her under lip bore witness to her stubbornness . 
Phoebe caught him by the arm then , thinking he meant to make good his threat and it would not have been unlike Grant Imsen to do so . 
Now , Grant , you let her go , she coaxed . 
I know you aren't drunk of course , I knew it all the time . 
You all time kay bueno . 
He gripped her more firmly , and turned his head slightly toward Phoebe . 
You'd be tired of it yourself if she threw it into you like she does into me , Mother Hart . 
It's got so I can't ride past this old hag in the trail but she gives me the bad eye , and mumbles into her blanket . 
And if I look sidewise , she yowls all over the country that I'm drunk . 
I'm getting tired of it ! He shook the squaw as a puppy shakes a shoe shook her till her hair quite hid her ugly old face from sight . 
All right Mother Hart she tellum mebbyso let you go . 
This time I no throw you in pond . 
You heap take care next time , mebbyso . 
You no tellum big lie , me all time heap drunk . 
All time me tellum Mother Hart , tellum boys , tellum Viney , Lucy , tellum Charlie and Tom and Sleeping Turtle you heap big liar . 
Me tell Wally shont isham . 
Him all time my friend mebbyso him no likum you no more . 
Get out pikeway before I forget you're a lady ! He laughed ironically , and pushed her from him so suddenly that she sprawled upon the steps . 
The Indians grinned unsympathetically at her , for Hagar was not the most popular member of the tribe by any means . 
Scrambling up , she shook her witch locks from her face , wrapped herself in her dingy blanket , and scuttled away , muttering maledictions under her breath . 
The watching group turned and followed her , and in a few seconds the gate was heard to slam shut behind them . 
Grant stood where he was , leaning against the milk house wall and when they were gone , he gave a short , apologetic laugh . 
No need to lecture , Mother Hart . 
He backed , and began to stammer an apology but she did not wait to hear a word of it . 
He heard the kitchen door shut , and the click of the lock . 
He heard other doors slam suggestively and he laughed in spite of his astonishment . 
And who the deuce might that be ? he asked , feeling in his pocket for smoking material . 
Phoebe seemed undecided between tears and laughter . 
Well , I wanted you to appear at your best and , instead of that , here you come , squabbling with old Hagar like Yes sure . 
But who is the timid lady ? Timid ! You nearly killed the poor girl , besides scaring her half to death , and then you call her timid . 
I know she thought there was going to be a real Indian massacre , right here , and she'd be scalped Wally Hart came back , laughing to himself . 
Say , you've sure cooked your goose with old Hagar , Grant ! She's right on the warpath , and then some . 
She'd like to burn yuh alive she said so . 
She's headed for camp , and all the rest of the bunch at her heels . 
She won't come here any more till you're kicked off the ranch , as near as I could make out her jabbering . 
And she won't do your washing any more , mum she said so . 
You're kay bueno yourself , because you take Good Indian's part . 
We're all kay bueno all but me . 
She wanted me to quit the bunch and go live in her wikiup . 
I'm the only decent one in the outfit . 
He gave his mother an affectionate little hug as he went past , and began an investigative tour of the stone jars on the cool rock floor within . 
What was it all about , Grant ? What did yuh do to her , anyway ? Oh , it wasn't anything . 
He was up at the store , and when I went out to get my horse , he tried to take a leg off me . 
I kicked him in the nose and he came at me again , so when I mounted I just dropped my loop over Mr. Dog . 
Sleeping Turtle was there , and he said the dog belonged to Viney , So I just led him gently to camp . 
He grinned a little at the memory of his gentleness . 
I told Viney I thought he'd make a fine stew , and , they'd better use him up right away before he spoiled . 
That's all there was to it . 
Well , Keno did sink his head and pitch around camp a little , but not to amount to anything . 
He just stuck his nose into old Hagar's wikiup and one sniff seemed to be about all he wanted . 
He took a meditative bite of cake , finished the buttermilk in three rapturous swallows , and bethought him of the feminine mystery . 
If you please , Mother Hart , who was that Christmas angel I squashed ? Vad ? Was Vad in on it , mum ? I never saw her . 
Wally straightened up with a fresh chunk of cake in his hand . 
Was she scared ? Yes , his mother admitted reluctantly , I guess she was , all right . 
I smashed her flat between me and the wall , and I scared the daylights out of her and I'm told I should have appeared at my best . 
But who she is , or where she belongs She belongs right here . 
Phoebe's tone was a challenge , whether she meant it to be so or not . 
This is going to be her home from now on and I want you boys to treat her nicer than you've been doing . 
She's been here a week almost and there ain't one of you that's made friends with her yet , or tried to , even . 
You've played jokes on her , and told her things to scare her and my grief ! I was hoping she'd have a softening influence on you , and make gentlemen of you . 
And far as I can make out , just having her on the place seems to put the Old Harry into every one of you ! It isn't right . 
It isn't the way I expected my boys would act toward a stranger a girl especially . 
And I did hope Grant would behave better . 
Sure , he ought to . 
Us boneheads don't know any better but Grant's EDUCATED . 
Wally grinned and winked elaborately at his mother's back . 
I'm not educated up to Christmas angels that look as if they'd been stepped on , Grant defended himself . 
She's a real nice little thing . 
I don't know the girl now . 
He snorted in contemptuous amusement , and gave a little , writhing twist of his slim body into his trousers . 
I never did like blondes , he added , in a tone of finality , and started up the steps . 
You never liked anything that wore skirts , Phoebe flung after him indignantly and she came very close to the truth . 
She's such a nice little thing but the boys don't take to her like I thought they would . 
I don't see as she's having a mite of influence on their manners , unless it's to make them act worse , just to shock her . 
Clark USED to take off his hat when he come into the house most every time . 
And great grief ! Now he'd wear it and his chaps and spurs to the table , if I didn't make him take them off . 
She's nice she's most too nice . 
I've got to give that girl a good talking to . 
She mounted the steps to the back porch , tried tho kitchen door , and found it locked . 
She went around to the door on the west side , opposite the gate , found that also secured upon the inside , and passed grimly to the next . 
My grief ! I didn't know any of these doors COULD be locked ! she muttered angrily . 
They never have been before that I ever heard of . 
She stopped before Evadna's window , and saw , through a slit in the green blind , that the old fashioned bureau had been pulled close before it . 
My grief ! she whispered disgustedly , and retraced her steps to the east side , which , being next to the pond , was more secluded . 
Evadna's door was barricaded , as Phoebe discovered when she turned the knob and attempted to walk in . 
She gave the door an indignant push , and heard a muffled shriek within , as if Evadna's head was buried under her pillow . 
My grief ! A body'd think you expected to be killed and eaten , she called out unsympathetically . 
You open this door ! Vadnie Ramsey . 
Oh , I don't see how you dare to L LIVE in such a place , Aunt Phoebe ! she cried tearfully , opening the door a bit wider . 
Those Indians and that awful man That was only Grant , honey . 
There's a few things I want to say to you , Vadnie . 
You promised to help me teach my boys to be gentle it's all they lack , and it takes gentle women , honey I am gentle , Evadna protested grievedly . 
Something's got to be done . 
You you're TOO The door opened still wider , and she went in . 
They don't apologize like that in New Jersey , she observed , with some resentment in her voice , and dabbed at her unbelievably blue eyes with a moist ball of handkerchief . 
I know they don't , honey . 
Phoebe patted her hand reassuringly . 
That's what I want you to help me teach my boys to be real gentlemen . 
They're pure gold , every one of them but I can't deny they're pretty rough on the outside sometimes . 
And I hope you will be Oh , I know . 
You just got me out here as a a sort of sandpaper for your boys' manners ! Evadna choked over a little sob of self pity . 
I can just tell you one thing , Aunt Phoebe , that fellow you call Grant ought to be smoothed with one of those funny axes they hew logs with . 
Phoebe bit her lips because she wanted to treat the subject very seriously . 
I want you to promise me , honey , that you will be particularly nice to Grant PARTICULARLY nice . 
He's so alone , and he's very proud and sensitive , because he feels his loneliness . 
No one understands him as I do I hate him ! gritted Evadna , in an emphatic whisper which her Aunt Phoebe thought it wise not to seem to hear . 
Phoebe settled herself comfortably for a long talk . 
Finally she rose and stood in the doorway , looking back at a huddled figure on the bed . 
Now dry your eyes and be a good girl , and remember what you've promised , she admonished kindly . 
Aunt Phoebe didn't mean to scold you , honey she only wants you to feel that you belong here , and she wants you to like her boys and have them like you . 
They've always wanted a sister to pet and Aunt Phoebe is hoping you'll not disappoint her . 
You'll try won't you , Vadnie ? Y yes , murmured Vadnie meekly from the pillow . 
Phoebe looked at her for a moment longer rather wistfully , and turned away . 
I do wish she had some spunk , she muttered complainingly , not thinking that Evadna might hear her . 
She don't take after the Ramseys none there wasn't anything mushy about them that I ever heard of . 
Mushy ! MUSHY ! Evadna sat up and stared at nothing at all while she repeated the word under her breath . 
MUSHY ! she repeated , and shook down her hair so that it framed her face and those eyes of hers . 
I suppose that's what they all say behind my back . 
And how can a girl be nice WITHOUT being mushy ? She drew the brush meditatively through her hair . 
Then he stared out over the pond again . 
Evadna walked straight over to him . 
I'm supposed to be nice to you par TIC ularly nice because you need it most . 
I dare say you do , judging from what I've seen of you . 
At any rate , I've promised . 
But I just want you to understand that I'm not going to mean one single bit of it . 
I don't like you I can't endure you ! and if I'm nice , it will just be because I've promised Aunt Phoebe . 
You're not to take my politeness at its face value , for back of it I shall dislike you all the time . 
Grant's lips twitched , and there was a covert twinkle in his eyes , though he looked around him with elaborate surprise . 
It's early in the day for mosquitoes , he drawled but I was sure I heard one buzzing somewhere close . 
Aunt Phoebe ought to get a street roller to smooth your manners , Evadna observed pointedly . 
I don't think he'll be long in making the discovery . 
The blue of Evadna's eyes darkened and darkened until they were almost black . 
Christmas angel , well , I like that ! Much you know about angels . 
Grant turned his head indolently and regarded her . 
Oh , I could pinch you ! She gritted her teeth to prove she meant what she said . 
It says it could pinch me . 
Grant lazily addressed the trout . 
I wonder , now , if it could be a LIVE angel ? Grant spoke to the softly swaying poplars . 
I'll show you whether I'm alive ! she panted vindictively . 
It's alive , and it's a humming bird . 
Grant laid a finger upon his arm and drawled his solution of a trivial mystery . 
It mistook me for a honeysuckle , and gave me a peck to make sure . 
He smiled indulgently , and exhaled a long wreath of smoke from his nostrils . 
Dear little humming birds so simple and so harmless ! And I've promised to be nice to THAT ! cried Evadna , in bitterness , and rushed past him to the porch . 
Evadna made it in a jump , just as the boys did , and landed lightly upon her slippered feet . 
I hate you hate you HATE YOU ! she cried , her eyes blazing up at his amused face before she ran off among the trees . 
It sings a sweet little song , he taunted , and his laughter followed her mockingly as she fled from him into the shadows . 
What's the joke , Good Injun ? Tell us , so we can laugh too . 
Wally and Jack hurried in from the kitchen and made for the doorway where he stood . 
From under his straight , black brows Grant sent a keen glance into the shade of the grove , where , an instant before , had flickered the white of Evadna's dress . 
The shadows lay there quietly now , undisturbed by so much as a sleepy bird's fluttering wings . 
I was just thinking of the way I yanked that dog down into old Wolfbelly's camp , he said , though there was no tangible reason for lying to them . 
They're too lazy to take the trouble and , besides , they're scared of dad . 
I was talking to Sleeping Turtle just now met him down there past the Point o' Rocks . 
What's the matter with us boys going on the warpath ourselves ? We don't need the Injuns . 
As long as she knows they're hanging around close , it's all the same . 
If we could just get mum off the ranch If we could kidnap her say , I wonder if we couldn't ! Clark looked at the others tentatively . 
Good Injun might do the rescue act and square himself with her for what happened at the milk house , Wally suggested dryly . 
Oh , say , you'd scare her to death . 
There's no use in piling it on quite so thick , Jack interposed mildly . 
I kinda like the kid sometimes . 
Yesterday , when I took her part way up the bluff , she acted almost human . 
On the dead , she did ! Kill the traitor ! Down with him ! Curses on the man who betrays us ! growled Wally , waving his cigarette threateningly . 
Whereupon Gene and Clark seized the offender by heels and shoulders , and with a brief , panting struggle heaved him bodily off the porch . 
Over the cliff he goes so may all traitors perish ! Wally declaimed approvingly , drawing up his legs hastily out of the way of Jack's clutching fingers . 
Say , old Peppajee's down at the stable with papa , Donny informed them breathlessly . 
I told Marie to put him right next to Vadnie if he stays to supper and , uh course , he will . 
If mamma don't get next and change his place , it'll be fun to watch her watch Vad , I mean . 
Jack's coming down with it already . 
You oughta be quarantined , old timer that's liable to be catching . 
Wally snorted his disdain of the whole proceeding . 
I'd rather go to jail myself . 
She did not look , at that moment , in the least degree mushy . 
Evadna was leisurely in her movements that night . 
The boys signaled each another to attention by kicking surreptitiously under the table , but nothing happened . 
She seemed perfectly at ease too perfectly at ease , decided Grant , who had an instinct for observation and was covertly watching her . 
It was unnatural that she should rub elbows with Peppajee without betraying the faintest trace of surprise that he should be sitting at the table with them . 
Long time ago , Peppajee was saying to Peaceful , taking up the conversation where Evadna had evidently interrupted it , many winters ago , my people all time brave . 
A time hunt , all time fight , all time heap strong . 
No drinkum whisky all same now . 
He flipped a braid back over his shoulder , buttered generously a hot biscuit , and reached for the honey . 
No brave no more kay bueno . 
All time ketchum whisky , get drunk all same likum hog . 
No hunt no more , no fight . 
Lay all time in sun , sleep . 
No sun come , lay all time in wikiup . 
Agent , him givum flour , givum meat , givum blanket , you thinkum bueno . 
He tellum you , kay bueno . 
Makum all same wachee typo . 
All time eat , all time sleep , playum cards all time , drinkum whisky . 
The grunt stood for disgust of his tribe , always something of an affectation with Peppajee . 
My brother , my brother's wife , my brother's wife's ah He searched his mind , frowning , for an English word , gave it up , and substituted a phrase . 
All the folks b'longum my brother's wife , heap lazy all time . 
Agent one time givum plenty flour , plenty meat , plenty tea . 
Them damn' folks no eatum . 
All time playum cards , drinkum whisky . 
All time otha fella ketchum flour , ketchum meat , ketchum tea ketchum all them thing b'longum . 
In the rhetorical pause he made there , his black eyes wandered inadvertently to Evadna's face . 
And Evadna , the timid one , actually smiled back . 
Isn't it a shame they should do that , she murmured sympathetically . 
Peppajee turned his eyes and his attention to Peaceful , as if the opinion and the sympathy of a mere female were not worthy his notice . 
Them grub all gone , them Injuns mebbyso ketchum hungry belly . 
Evadna blushed , and looked studiously at her plate . 
Me got plenty flour , plenty meat , plenty tea . 
Stay all time my wikiup . 
Sun come up he pointed a brown , sinewy hand toward the east eatum my grub . 
Sun up there his finger indicated the zenith eatum some more . 
Sun go 'way , eatum some more . 
Then sleepum all time my wikiup . 
Bimeby , mebbyso my flour all gone , my meat mebbyso gone , mebbyso tea them folks all time eatum grub , me no ketchum . 
Me no playum cards , all same otha fella ketchum my grub . 
Better me playum cards mebbyso all time . 
Bimeby no ketchum mo' grub , no stopum my wikiup . 
Me tellum 'Yo' heap lazy , heap kay bueno . 
Yo' all time eatum my grub , yo' no givum me money , no givum hoss , no givum notting . 
Me damn' mad all time yo' . 
Yo' go damn' quick ! Peppajee held out his cup for more tea . 
Never before in her life had she heard the epithet unprintable , and she stared fixedly at the old fashioned , silver castor which always stood in the exact center of the table . 
Old Peaceful Hart cleared his throat , glanced furtively at Phoebe , and drew his hand down over his white beard . 
The boys puffed their cheeks with the laughter they would , if possible , restrain , and eyed Evadna's set face aslant . 
It was Good Indian who rebuked the offender . 
Peppajee , mebbyso you no more say them words , he said quietly . 
White man no tellum where white woman hear . 
White woman no likum hear all time heap shame for her . 
Huh , grunted Peppajee doubtingly , his eyes turning to Phoebe . 
Times before had he said them before Phoebe Hart , and she had passed them by with no rebuke . 
Grant read the glance , and answered it . 
Mother Hart live long time in this place , he reminded him . 
Hear bad talk many times . 
This girl no hear no likum hear . 
You sabe ? You no make shame for this girl . 
He glanced challengingly across the table at Wally , whose grin was growing rather pronounced . 
Mebbyso you boss all same this ranch ? Peppajee retorted sourly . 
Mebbyso Peacefu' tellum , him no likum . 
Peaceful , thus drawn into the discussion , cleared his throat again . 
Wel l l WE don't cuss much before the women , he admitted apologetically We kinda consider that men's talk . 
I reckon Vadnie'll overlook it this time . 
He looked across at her beseechingly . 
You no feelum bad , Peppajee . 
Me no makum squaw talk . 
Peppajee laid down his knife , lifted a corner of his blanket , and drew it slowly across his stern mouth . 
He muttered a slighting sentence in Indian . 
In the same tongue Grant answered him sharply , and after that was silence broken only by the subdued table sounds . 
Evadna's eyes filled slowly until she finally pushed back her chair and hurried out into the yard and away from the dogged silence of that blanketed figure at her elbow . 
She sat up , and waited defensively . 
More baiting , without a doubt and she was not in the mood to remember any promises about being a nice , gentle little thing . 
The figure came close , stooped , and took her by the arm . 
In the half light she knew him then . 
Come over by the pond , he said , in what was almost a command . 
I want to talk to you a little . 
Does it occur to you that I might not want to talk t to you ? Still , she let him help her to her feet . 
You needn't open your lips if you don't want to . 
Just 'lend me your ears , and be silent that ye may hear . 
The boys will be boiling out on tho porch , as usual , in a minute so hurry . 
I hope it's something very important , Evadna hinted ungraciously . 
Nothing else would excuse this high handed proceeding . 
I don't know that it's of any importance at all , he said calmly . 
I got to feeling rather ashamed of myself , is all , and it seemed to me the only decent thing was to tell you so . 
I'm not making any bid for your favor I don't know that I want it . 
I don't care much about girls , one way or the other . 
He tardily lighted his cigarette and sat smoking beside her , the tiny glow lighting his face briefly now and then . 
I hadn't heard about the dead tarantula on your pillow , or the rattler coiled up on the porch , or any of those innocent little jokes . 
Oh ! Thank you very much . 
Evadna's tone might be considered ironical . 
I suppose I ought to say that your statement lessens my dislike of you Not at all . 
Go right ahead and hate me , if you feel that way . 
It won't matter to me girls never did concern me much , one way or the other . 
I'm willing to do that my sympathies are always with the under dog , anyway , and they're five to one . 
You don't like me any better than I like you . 
We're to be as decent as possible to each other you from 'common humanity , and I because I promised Aunt Phoebe . 
We e l ! that's about it , I guess . 
Only I wouldn't go so far as to say I actually dislike you . 
I never did dislike a girl , that I remember . 
I never thought enough about them , one way or the other . 
He seemed rather fond of that statement , he repeated it so often . 
The life I live doesn't call for girls . 
Put that's neither here nor there . 
What I wanted to say was , that I won't bother you any more . 
I wouldn't have said a word to you tonight , if you hadn't walked right up to me and started to dig into me . 
Of course , I had to fight back tho man who won't isn't a normal human being . 
From Adam down to you , it has always been 'The woman , she tempted me . 
You're perfectly horrid , even if you have apologized . 
'The woman , she tempted me , and I beg your pardon the woman didn't , he corrected blandly . 
The woman insisted on scrapping . 
Oh , it's different ! I see . 
I have almost forgotten something I ought to say , Mr. Imsen . 
I must thank you for well , for defending me to that Indian . 
Nobody was attacking you , so I couldn't very well defend you , could I ? I had to take a fall out of old Peppajee , just on principle . 
I don't get along very well with my noble red cousins . 
I wasn't doing it on your account , in particular . 
She rose rather suddenly from the bench . 
It wasn't even common humanity , then Not even common humanity , he echoed affirmatively . 
Just a chance I couldn't afford to pass up , of digging into Peppajee . 
She laughed shortly and left him , running swiftly through the warm dusk to the murmur of voices at the house . 
Grant sat where she left him , and smoked two cigarettes meditatively before he thought of returning to the house . 
When he finally did get upon his feet , he stretched his arms high above his head , and stared for a moment up at the treetops swaying languidly just under the stars . 
Girls must play the very deuce with a man if he ever lets them get on his mind , he mused . 
I see right now where a fellow about my size and complexion had better watch out . 
But he smiled afterward , as if he did not consider the matter very serious , after all . 
CHAPTER VI THE CHRISTMAS ANGEL PLAYS GHOST At midnight , the Peaceful Hart ranch lay broodily quiet under its rock rimmed bluff . 
Outside , one of the milch cows drew a long , sighing breath of content with life , lifted a cud in mysterious , bovine manner , and chewed dreamily . 
Three feet away , a sleeper stirred restlessly , lifted his head from the pillow , and slapped half heartedly at an early mosquito that was humming in his ear . 
He reached out , and jogged the shoulder of him who snored . 
Say , Gene , if you've got to sleep at the top of your voice , you better drag your bed down into the orchard , he growled . 
Let up a little , can't yuh ? Ah , shut up and let a fellow sleep ! mumbled Gene , snuggling the covers up to his ears . 
Just what I want YOU to do . 
You snore like a sawmill . 
What's that ? The two jerked themselves to a sitting position , and stared into the blackness of the grove . 
Bobcat , whispered Clark , in a tone which convinced not even himself . 
In a pig's ear , flouted Gene , under his breath . 
He leaned far over and poked his finger into a muffled form . 
D'yuh hear that noise , Grant ? Grant sat up instantly . 
What's tho matter ? he demanded , rather ill naturedly , if the truth be told . 
Did you hear anything a funny noise , like The cry itself finished the sentence for him . 
It came from nowhere , it would seem , since they could see nothing rose slowly to a subdued shriek , clung there nerve wrackingly , and then wailed mournfully down to silence . 
Afterward , while their ears were still strained to the sound , the bobcat squalled an answer from among the rocks . 
Yes , I heard it , said Grant . 
It's the wail of a lost spirit , loosed temporarily from the horrors of purgatory . 
It's sent as a warning to repent you of your sins , and it's howling because it hates to go back . 
What you going to do about it ? He made his own intention plain beyond any possibility of misunderstanding . 
He lay down and pulled the blanket over his shoulders , cuddled his pillow under his head , and disposed himself to sleep . 
The moon climbed higher , and sent silvery splinters of light quivering down among the trees . 
A frog crawled out upon a great lily pad and croaked dismally . 
Again came the wailing cry , nearer than before , more subdued , and for that reason more eerily mournful . 
Grant sat up , muttered to himself , and hastily pulled on some clothes . 
Grant reached under his pillow for something , and freed himself stealthily from a blanketfold . 
If that spook don't talk Indian when it's at home , I'm very much mistaken , he whispered to Clark , who was nearest . 
Crouching low in the shade of a clump of bushes , Grant stole toward the spot . 
When he reached the place , the thing was not there . 
Instead , he glimpsed it farther on , and gave chase , taking what precautions he could against betraying himself . 
Through the grove and the gate and across the road he followed , in doubt half the time whether it was worth the trouble . 
Still , if it was what he suspected , a lesson taught now would probably insure against future disturbances of the sort , he thought , and kept stubbornly on . 
Once more he heard the dismal cry , and fancied it held a mocking note . 
I'll settle that mighty quick , he promised grimly , as he jumped a ditch and ran toward the place . 
Somewhere among the currant bushes was a sound of eery laughter . 
He swerved toward the place , saw a white form rise suddenly from the very ground , as it seemed , and lift an arm with a slow , beckoning gesture . 
Without taking aim , he raised his gun and fired a shot at it . 
The arm dropped rather suddenly , and the white form vanished . 
He hurried up to where it had stood , knelt , and felt of the soft earth . 
Without a doubt there were footprints there he could feel them . 
But he hadn't a match with him , and the place was in deep shade . 
He stood up and listened , thought he heard a faint sound farther along , and ran . 
There was no use now in going quietly what counted most was speed . 
Once more he caught sight of the white form fleeing from him like the very wraith it would have him believe it . 
Then he lost it again and when he reached the spot where it disappeared , he fell headlong , his feet tangled in some white stuff . 
He swore audibly , picked himself up , and held the cloth where the moon shone full upon it . 
It looked like a sheet , or something of the sort , and near one edge was a moist patch of red . 
Well , anyhow , I didn't kill him , he muttered uneasily as he crawled through a fence into the orchard . 
He's making a pretty swift get away for a fellow that's been shot . 
In the orchard the patches of moonlight were larger , and across one of them he glimpsed a dark object , running wearily . 
Grant repressed an impulse to shout , and used the breath for an extra burst of speed . 
The ghost was making for the fence again , as if it would double upon its trail and reach some previously chosen refuge . 
It was the short cut from the peach orchard and it occurred to him that this particular spook seemed perfectly familiar with the byways of the ranch . 
Near the fence he made a discovery that startled him a little . 
The figure reached the fence before him , and in the dim light he could see it stoop to pass through . 
Then it seemed as if the barbs had caught in its clothing and held it there . 
It struggled to free itself and in the next minute he rushed up and clutched it fast . 
Why don't you float over the treetops ? he panted ironically . 
Ghosts have no business getting their spirit raiment tangled up in a barbed wire fence . 
It answered with a little exclamation , with a sob following close upon it . 
There was a sound of tearing cloth , and he held his captive upright , and with a merciless hand turned her face so that the moonlight struck it full . 
They stared at each other , breathing hard from more than the race they had run . 
Well I'll be Grant began , in blank amazement . 
She wriggled her chin in his palm , trying to free herself from his pitiless staring . 
Failing that , she began to sob angrily without any tears in her wide eyes . 
You shot me , you brute ! she cried accusingly at last . 
You SHOT me ! And she sobbed again . 
I guess I didn't murder you from the chase you gave me . 
And you shot a big hole right through Aunt Phoebe's sheet ! she added , with tearful severity . 
He caught her arm , bent his head over it and for a moment he was perilously near to kissing it an impulse which astonished him considerably , and angered him more . 
He dropped the arm rather precipitately and she lifted it again , and regarded the wound with mournful interest . 
Just as much right as you have to get up in the middle of the night and go ahowling all over the ranch wrapped up in a sheet , he retorted ungallantly . 
Well , if I want to do it , I don't see why you need concern yourself about it . 
I wasn't doing it for your benefit , anyway . 
Well , I wanted to scare Gene , she confessed . 
I just know he's a cowardy cat , because he's always trying to scare ME . 
It's Gene's fault he told me the grove is haunted . 
He says sometimes it comes and moans at the corner of the house where my room is . 
I just know he was going to do it himself but I guess he forgot . 
So I thought I'd see if he believed his own yarns . 
I was going to do it every night till I scared him into sleeping in the house . 
I had a perfectly lovely place to disappear into , where he couldn't trace me if he took to hunting around only he wouldn't dare . 
She pulled down her sleeve very carefully , and then , just as carefully , she pushed it up again , and took another look . 
My best friend TOLD me I'd get shot if I came to Idaho , she reminded herself , with a melancholy satisfaction . 
You didn't get shot , Grant contradicted for the sake of drawing more sparks of temper where temper seemed quaintly out of place , and stared hard at her drooping profile . 
You just got nicely missed a bullet that only scrapes off a little skin can't be said to hit . 
I'd hate to hit a bear like that . 
I believe you're wishing you HAD killed me ! You might at least have some conscience in the matter , and be sorry you shot a lady . 
You just wish you had murdered me . 
You hate girls you said so . 
And I don't know what business it is of yours , if I want to play a joke on my cousin , or why you had to be sleeping outside , anyway . 
When I say that I mean it . 
I never liked you from the very start , when I first saw you this afternoon . 
Now I hate and despise you . 
I suppose I oughtn't to expect you to apologize or be sorry because you almost killed me . 
I suppose that's just your real nature coming to the surface . 
Indians love to hurt and torture people ! I shouldn't have expected anything else of you , I suppose . 
I made the mistake of treating you like a white man . 
Don't you think you're making another mistake right now ? Grant's whole attitude changed , as well as his tone . 
When people make the blunder of calling up the Indian , he went on steadily , they usually find that they have to deal with the Indian . 
Evadna looked at him again , and turned slowly white before her temper surged to the surface again . 
You never even said you were sorry . 
I'm not in the habit of saying all I think and feel . 
All men are savages under the skin , he said . 
How do YOU know what I think and feel ? If I fail to come through with the conventional patter , I am called an Indian because my mother was a half breed . 
Oh , you're a girl , and you demand the usual amount of poor pussy talk , he told her maliciously . 
If it will help any , I'll even kiss the hurt to make it well and I'm not a kissing young man , either , let me tell you . 
I'd die before I'd let you touch me ! Her repentance , if it was that , changed to pure rage . 
She snatched the torn sheet from him and turned abruptly toward the fence . 
She seemed to hesitate for a moment , as though tempted to reject even that slight favor , then stooped , and went through . 
As the wires snapped into place , she halted and looked back at him . 
Maybe I've been mean but you're been meaner , she summed up , in self justification . 
I suppose the next thing you will do will be to tell the boys . 
Well , I don't care what you do , so long as you never speak to me again . 
Go and tell them if you want to tell . 
We thought the spook had got yuh , sure . 
Gene lifted his head turtlewise and laughed deprecatingly . 
We was just about ready to start out after the corpse , only we didn't know but what you might get excited and take a shot at us in the dark . 
We heard yuh shoot what was it ? Did you find out ? It wasn't anything , said Grant shortly , tugging at a boot . 
Ah there was , too ! What was it you shot at ? Clark joined in the argument from the blackness under the locust tree . 
The moon , Grant told him sullenly . 
There wasn't anything else that I could see . 
And that's a lie , Gene amended , with the frankness of a foster brother . 
Screech owl my granny ! You bumped into something you couldn't handle if you want to know what I think about it , Clark guessed shrewdly . 
I wish now I'd taken the trouble to hunt the thing down it didn't seem worth while getting up . 
But I leave it to Gene if you ain't mad enough to murder whatever it was . 
What was it ? He waited a moment without getting a reply . 
Well , keep your teeth shut down on it , then , darn yuh ! he growled . 
That's the Injun of it I know YOU ! Screech owl huh ! You said when you left it was an Indian and that's why we didn't take after it ourselves . 
I guess you found out , all right . 
I knew the minute you heaved in sight that you was just about as mad as you can get and that's saying a whole lot . 
The result proved the sort of fellow he was . 
Clark shut up without even trailing off into mumbling to himself , as was his habit when argument brought him defeat . 
Straight up , he told me , Gene answered sourly . 
He's sore over something that happened last night , and he didn't seem to have any talk to give away this morning . 
He can go to the dickens , for all I care . 
WHAT happened last night ? Evadna wore her Christmas angel expression and her tone was the sweet , insipid tone of childlike innocence . 
There was a noise when the moon had just come up didn't you hear it ? The ghost I told you about . 
Good Injun went after it with a gun , and I guess they mixed , all right , and he got the worst of it . 
You just ask him what was in the grove last night . 
Ask him what he HEARD . 
He moved closer , and laid his hand impressively upon her arm . 
Good Injun's scared clean off the ranch you can see that for yourself . 
He said he couldn't be hired to spend another night here . 
He thinks it's a bad sign . 
That's the Injun of it . 
They believe in spirits and signs and things . 
And didn't he tell you what he that is , if he found out you said he went after it He wouldn't say a blamed thing about it , Gene complained sincerely . 
He said there wasn't anything he told us it was a screech owl . 
Oh ! Evadna gave a sigh of relief . 
Jack promised to take me up to Hartley to day , she explained over her shoulder . 
Gene did not make any reply . 
Indeed , he seemed wholly absorbed in staring after her and wondering just how much or how little of it she meant . 
Evadna looked back , midway between the gate and the stable , and , when she saw him standing exactly as she had left him , she waved her hand and smiled . 
Grant's horse dozed before the store , and Grant himself sat upon a bench in the narrow strip of shade on the porch . 
Evadna , therefore , refused absolutely to dismount there , though her errand had been a post office money order . 
Jack was already on the ground when she made known her decision and she left him in the middle of his expostulations and rode on to the depot . 
He followed disapprovingly afoot and , when she brought her horse to a stand , he helped her from the saddle , and took the bridle reins with an air of weary tolerance . 
When you get ready to go home , you can come to the store , he said bluntly . 
Huckleberry wouldn't stand here if you hog tied him . 
Just remember that if you ever ride up here alone it might save you a walk back . 
And say , he added , with a return of his good natured grin , it looks like you and Good Injun didn't get acquainted yesterday . 
I thought I saw mum give him an introduction to you but I guess I made a mistake . 
When you come to the store , don't let me forget , and I'll do it myself . 
I was just getting desperate enough to haul in those squaws out there and see if I couldn't teach 'em whist or something . 
She sat down and fingered her pompadour absently . 
And that sure would have been interesting , she added musingly . 
Don't let me interrupt you , Evadna began primly . 
I only came for a money order Aunt Phoebe's sending for Never mind what you came for , Miss Georgie cut in decisively , and laughed . 
The express agent is out . 
You can't get your order till we've had a good talk and got each other tagged mentally only I've tagged you long ago . 
I thought you were the express agent . 
Aunt Phoebe said Nice , truthful Aunt Phoebe ! I am , but I'm out officially . 
I'm several things , my dear but , for the sake of my own dignity and self respect , I refuse to be more than one of them at a time . 
When I sell a ticket to Shoshone , I'm the ticket agent , and nothing else . 
Telegrams , I'm the operator . 
At certain times I'm the express agent . 
But this isn't one of the times . 
She stopped and regarded her visitor with whimsical appraisement . 
You'll wait till the agent returns , won't you ? And added , with a grimace You won't be in the way I'm not anything official right now . 
I'm over the line myself , and you're calling on me . 
Sabe ? That little desk by the safe is the express office , and you can see for yourself that the agent is out . 
Well , upon my word ! Evadna permitted herself that much emotional relief . 
Then she leaned her head against the cherry colored head rest tied to the chair with huge , cherry colored bows , and took a deliberate survey of the room . 
It was a small room , as rooms go . 
Over it was a railroad map and a makeshift bulletin board , which seemed to give the time of certain trains . 
And small paned windows gave one sitting before tho instruments an unobstructed view up and down the track . 
Under a small window opening upon the platform was another little table , with indications of occasional ticket selling upon it . 
Also there was a tiny , square table , with a pack of cards scattered over it . 
You have it sized up correctly , my dear . 
Miss Georgie Howard nodded her head three times , and her eyes were mirthful . 
I made it a game . 
I had to , in self defense . 
Otherwise She waved a hand conspicuous for its white plumpness and its fingers tapering beautifully to little , pink nails immaculately kept . 
I took at the job and the place just as it stands , without anything in the way of mitigation . 
Can you see yourself holding it down for longer than a week ? I've been here a month . 
I think , Evadna ventured , it must be fun . 
It's fun if you make fun OF it . 
However , before we settle down for a real visit , I've a certain duty to perform , if you will excuse my absence for a moment . 
Incidentally , she added , getting lazily out of the chair , it will illustrate just how I manage my system . 
Her absence was purely theoretical . 
She stepped off the rug , went to the express office , and took a card from the desk . 
When she had stood it upright behind the inkwell , Evadna read in large , irregular capitals OUT . 
I never eat candy when I'm in the office , she observed soberly . 
I'm terribly taken with him . 
He excuse me , chicken . 
There's a fellow down the line hollering his head off . 
Wait till I see what he wants . 
Again she left the rug , stepped to the telegraph instrument , and fingered the key daintily until she had , with the other hand , turned down the out card . 
Then she threw the switch , rattled an impatient reply , and waited , listening to the rapid clicking of the sounder . 
Her eyes and her mouth hardened as she read . 
Cad ! she gritted under her breath . 
Her fingers were spiteful as they clicked the key in answer . 
She slammed the current off , set up the out notice again , kicked the desk chair against the wall , and came back to the parlor breathing quickly . 
I think it must be perfectly fascinating to talk that way to persons miles off , said Evadna , eying the chittering sounder with something approaching awe . 
I watched your fingers , and tried to imagine what it was they were saying but I couldn't even guess . 
Miss Georgie Howard laughed queerly . 
No , I don't suppose you could , she murmured , and added , with a swift glance at the other They said , 'You go to the devil . 
She held up the offending hand and regarded it intently . 
You wouldn't think it of them , would you ? But they have to say things sometimes in self defense . 
There are two or three fresh young men along the line that can't seem to take a hint unless you knock them in the head with it . 
She cast a malevolent look at the clicking instrument . 
He's trying to square himself , she observed carelessly . 
But , unfortunately , I'm out . 
He seems on the verge of tears , poor thing . 
She poked investigatingly among the chocolates , and finally selected a delectable morsel with epicurean care . 
You haven't told me about the polysyllabic young man , she reminded . 
I wrote it down so I wouldn't forget it , she explained parenthetically . 
Now , I want to know what sort of a man , under fifty and not a college professor , would or could say that without studying it first . 
It sounded awfully impromptu and easy and yet he looks well , cowboyish . 
What sort of a young man is he ? He's a perfectly horrid young man . 
Evadna leaned to help herself to more chocolates . 
He well , just to show you how horrid , he calls me a a Christmas angel ! And Did he ! Miss Georgie eyed her measuringly between bites . 
That's Shoshone calling , she said , frowning attentively . 
They've got an old crank up there in the office I'd know his touch among a million and when he calls he means business . 
I'll have to speak up , I suppose . 
She sighed , tucked a chocolate into her cheek , and went scowling to the table . 
Can't the idiot see I'm out ? she complained whimsically . 
When it was finished and the sounder quiet , her hand awoke to life upon the key . 
She seemed to be repeating the message , word for word . 
She addressed it with a hasty scrawl of her pencil , sealed it with a vicious little spat of her hand , and then sat looking down upon it thoughtfully . 
I suppose I've got to deliver that immediately , at once , without delay , she said . 
There's supposed to be an answer . 
Chicken , some queer things happen in this business . 
And sending them , too , by the way . 
Want to come along ? Or would you rather stay here ? I won't be more than two minutes . 
She was gone five and she returned with a preoccupied air which lasted until she had disposed of three chocolates and was carefully choosing a fourth . 
And so is Aunt Phoebe . 
I quite agree with you . 
And by the way , I met that polysyllabic cowboy again and I discovered that , on the whole , my estimate was incorrect . 
I said sixteen nice things to him while I was waiting for Pete to wake up Saunders and he answered in words of one syllable one word , of one syllable . 
I'm beginning to feel that I've simply got to know that young man . 
There are deeps there which I am wild to explore . 
I never met any male human in the least like him . 
Did you ? So absolutely ah inscrutable , let us say . 
That's just because he's part Indian , Evadna declared , with the positiveness of youth and inexperience . 
It isn't inscrutability , but stupidity . 
I simply can't bear him . 
He's brutal , and rude . 
He told me told me , mind you that he doesn't like women . 
He actually warned me against thinking his politeness if he ever is polite , which I doubt means more than just common humanity . 
He said he didn't want me to misunderstand him and think he liked me , because he doesn't . 
I simply loathe him ! I'd certainly see that he repented , apologized , and vowed eternal devotion , smiled Miss Georgie . 
That should be my revenge . 
I don't want any revenge . 
I simply want nothing to do with him . 
I don't want to speak to him , even . 
He's awfully good looking , mused Miss Georgie . 
He looks to me just like an Indian . 
He ought to wear a blanket , like the rest . 
His eyes are dark but they aren't snaky , my dear . 
His hair is real wavy , did you notice ? And he has the dearest , firm mouth . 
I noticed it particularly , because I admire a man who's a man . 
He'd fight and never give up , once he started . 
I do hate a whiner ! Don't you ? A shadow fell upon the platform outside the door , and Saunders appeared , sidling deprecatingly into the room . 
Here's the answer to that message , he said , in a limp tone , without any especial emphasis or inflection . 
If you ain't too busy , and could send it right off it's to go C. O. D. and make 'em repeat it , so as to be sure Certainly , Mr. Saunders . 
Miss Georgie rose , the crisp , businesslike operator , and went to the table . 
She took the sheet of paper from him with her finger tips , as if he were some repulsive creature whose touch would send her shuddering , and glanced at the message . 
Write it on the regular form , she said , and pushed a pad and pencil toward him . 
I have to place it on file . 
Whereupon she turned her back upon him , and stood staring down the railroad track through the smoke grimed window until a movement warned her that he was through . 
Very well that is all , she said , after she had counted the words twice . 
Oh you want to wait for the repeat . 
There if it's correct , that's all , she told him in a tone of dismissal , and waited openly for him to go . 
He was no sooner over the threshold than she slammed the door shut , in spite of the heat . 
She walked to the window , glanced down the track again , turned to the table , and restlessly arranged the form pads , sticking the message upon the file . 
She said something under her breath , snapped the cover on the inkwell , sighed , patted her pompadour , and finally laughed at her own uneasiness . 
Whenever that man comes in here , she observed impatiently , I always feel as if I ought to clean house after him . 
I feel guilty , almost , every time I send one of those cipher messages . 
Maybe he's a detective , Evadna hazarded . 
Miss Georgie's tone , however , was extremely skeptical . 
Only , so far as I can discover , there's never been anything around here to detect . 
Nobody has been murdered , or robbed , or kidnapped that I ever heard of . 
Besides , Miss Georgie went on speculating , Saunders never does anything that anyone ever heard of . 
Sweeps out the store , they say but I'd hate to swear to that . 
I never could catch it when it looked swept and brings the mail sack over here twice a day , and gets one to take back . 
Of course , the man's half dead with consumption but no one would object to that , if these queer wires hadn't commenced coming to him . 
Why don't you turn detective yourself and find out ? Plainly , Evadna was secretly laughing at her perturbed interest in the matter . 
I'm too many things already , and I haven't any false hair or dark lantern . 
And , by the way , I'm going to have the day off , Sunday . 
Charlie Green is coming up to relieve me . 
And couldn't we do something ? She glanced wearily around the little office . 
Honest , I'd go crazy if I stayed here much longer without a play spell . 
I want to get clear out , away from the thing where I can't even hear a train whistle . 
Then you shall come down to the ranch the minute you can get away , and we'll do something or go somewhere . 
The boys said they'd take me fishing but they only propose things so they can play jokes on me , it seems to me . 
They'd make me fall in the river , or something , I just know . 
But if you'd like to go along , there'd be two of us Chicken , we'll go . 
I ought to be ashamed to fish for an invitation the way I did , but I'm not . 
I haven't been down to the Hart ranch yet and I've heard enough about it to drive me crazy with the desire to see it . 
Your Aunt Phoebe I've met , and fallen in love with that's a matter of course . 
She told me to visit her just any time , without waiting to be invited especially . 
Isn't she the dearest thing ? Oh ! that's a train order , I suppose sixteen is about due . 
Howdy , Miss Georgie ? he called unctuously through the open door . 
Miss Georgie barely glanced at him from under her lashes , and her shoulders indulged themselves in an almost imperceptible twitch . 
How do you do , Mr. Baumberger ? she responded coolly , and very , very gently pushed the door shut just as he had made up his mind to enter . 
Good Indian and Jack , sitting side by side upon the porch and saying very little , he passed by with a careless nod , as being not worth his attention . 
Saunders , glancing up from the absorbing last chapter of The Brokenhearted Bride , also received a nod , and returned it apathetically . 
And I don't go back till I get him not if I stay here a week , he declared , with jocular savagery . 
Now , how did that fly come there ? he asked aggrievedly , while he released it daintily for all his fingers looked so fat and awkward . 
He stuck the pipe in the corner of his mouth , and held up the fly with that interest which seems fatuous to one who has no sporting blood in his veins . 
Last time I used that fly was when I was down here three weeks ago the day I lost the big one . 
Ain't it a beauty , eh ? Tied it myself . 
And , by the great immortal Jehosaphat , it fetches me the rainbows , too . 
Good mind to try it on the big one . 
Don't see how I didn't miss it out of my book I must be getting absent minded . 
Sign of old age , that . 
Failing powers and the like . 
He shook his head reprovingly and grinned , as if he considered the idea something of a joke . 
Have to buck up a lawyer can't afford to grow absent minded . 
He's liable to wake up some day and find himself without his practice . 
Think I'll go on down to the Harts' , he said , so as to be that much closer to the stream . 
Daylight is going to find me whipping the riffles , Peter . 
You won't come along ? You better . 
Plenty of ah snake medicine , he hinted , chuckling so that the whole , deep chest of him vibrated . 
No ? Well , you can let me have a horse , I suppose that cow backed sorrel will do he's gentle , I know . 
Nobody's there and , if there was , it wouldn't matter , Jack assured him carelessly . 
Go on down , if you want to . 
It'll be all right with mother . 
One thing I like about fishing down here , chuckled Baumberger , his fat fingers still resting lightly upon Jack's shoulder , is the pleasure of eating my fish at your house . 
There ain't another man , woman , or child in all Idaho can fry trout like your mother . 
You needn't tell her I said so but it's a fact , just the same . 
She sure is a genius with the frying pan , my boy . 
He turned and called in to Pete , to know if he might have the sorrel saddled right away . 
Needn't bother to bring the horse down here , my man , Baumberger called after him . 
I'll get him at the stable and start from there . 
Well , wish me luck , Pete and say ! I'll expect you to make a day of it with me Sunday . 
I'm going to stay over that long , anyhow . 
Promised myself three good days maybe more . 
A man's got to break away from his work once in a while . 
If I didn't , life wouldn't be worth living . 
I'm willing to grind but I've got to have my playtime , too . 
Say , I want you to try this rod of mine Sunday . 
You'll want one like it yourself , if I'm any good at guessing . 
Just got it , you know it's the one I was talking to yuh about last time I was down . 
W ell I reckon my means of conveyance is ready for me so long , Peter , till Sunday . 
See you at supper , boys . 
Beneath him and half a mile or so up the river valley , the mellow green of Peaceful's orchard was already taking to itself the vagueness of evening shadows . 
Nearer , the meadow of alfalfa and clover lay like a soft , green carpet of velvet , lined here and there with the irrigation ditches which kept it so . 
And in the center of the meadow , a small inclosure marked grimly the spot where lay the bones of old John Imsen . 
Hello , Peppajee , called Wally over his cigarette . 
Just in time for supper . 
Upon the bulky figure of Baumberger they dwelt longest , and while he looked his face hardened until nothing seemed alive but his eyes . 
Peppajee , this my friend , Mr. Baumberger . 
You heap sabe Baumberger come all time from Shoshone , mebbyso catchum heap many fish . 
Peaceful's mild , blue eyes twinkled over his old meerschaum . 
He knew the ways of Indians , and more particularly he knew the ways of Peppajee Baumberger , he guessed shrewdly , had failed to find favor in his eyes . 
Huh ! grunted Peppajee non commitally , and made no motion to shake hands , thereby confirming Peaceful's suspicion . 
Me heap sabe Man that catchum fish . 
After which he stood as before , his arms folded tightly in his blanket , his chin lifted haughtily , his mouth a straight , stern line of bronze . 
Bimeby eat supper , Peaceful invited pacifically , while Baumberger chuckled at the Indian's attitude , which he attributed to racial stupidity . 
Peppajee did not even indicate that he heard or , hearing , understood . 
Bothered much with Injuns ? Baumberger asked carelessly , putting away his pipe . 
I see there's quite a camp of 'em up on the hill . 
Hope you've got good watchdogs they're a thieving lot . 
If they're a nuisance , Hart , I'll see what can be done about slapping 'em back on their reservation , where they belong . 
I happen to have some influence with the agent . 
I guess you needn't go to any trouble about it , Peaceful returned dryly . 
Oh if you're stuck on their company ! laughed Baumberger wheezily . 
'Every fellow to his taste , as the old woman said when she kissed her cow . 
They all look alike to me , I must admit I never had any truck with 'em . 
No , I guess not , Peaceful agreed in his slow way , holding his pipe three inches from his face while he eyed Peppajee quizzically . 
Don't pay to have any truck with 'em while you feel that way about it . 
He smoothed down his snow white beard with his free hand , pushed the pipe stem between his teeth , and went on smoking . 
I never liked the breed , any way you look at 'em , Baumberger stated calmly . 
Say , you'll queer yourself good and plenty , if you keep on , Wally interrupted bluntly . 
Peppajee's ears aren't plugged with cotton are they , Jim ? Neither Peppajee nor Baumberger made reply of any sort , and Peaceful turned his mild eyes reproachfully toward his untactful son . 
But the supper summons clanged insistently from the iron triangle on the back porch and saved the situation from becoming too awkward . 
Better come and eat , Peppajee , Peaceful lingered upon the porch to urge hospitably . 
No ! Peppajee jerked the word out with unmistakable finality . 
Bimeby mebbyso makum big talk yo' . 
Peaceful studied his face , found it stern and unyielding , and nodded assent . 
I eat , then I talk with you . 
He turned somewhat reluctantly and followed the others inside , leaving Peppajee to pass the time away as pleased him best . 
Peaceful , coming out half an hour after with Baumberger at his heels , found him so and made a movement to sit down beside him . 
But Peppajee rose and stalked majestically to the gate , then turned and confronted the two . 
Mebbyso no talk Man with big belly . 
Peaceful turned apologetically toward his guest . 
Something he wants to tell me , Baumberger kinda private , I guess . 
I'll be back in a minute , anyway . 
Now don't mind me at all , Baumberger protested generously . 
Go ahead just as if I wasn't here that's what'll please me best . 
I hope I ain't so much of a stranger you've got to stand on ceremony . 
Go on , and find out what the old buck wants he's got something on his mind , that's sure . 
Been stealing fruit , maybe , and wants to square himself before you catch him at it . 
He laughed his laziest , and began leisurely to fill his pipe . 
Long time ago , when yo' hair black , he began deliberately , with a sonorous lingering upon his vowels , yo' all time my frien' . 
I yo' frien' all same . 
Yo' no likum otha white man . 
Yo' house all same my wikiup . 
Me come eat at yo' house , talk yo' all same brotha . 
Yo' boys all same my boys all time my frien' . 
Me speakum all time no lie , mebbyso . 
No , Peaceful assented unhesitatingly , you no tell lies , Peppajee . 
We good friends , many years . 
Huh ! Man that catchum fish , him no yo' frien' . 
All time him speakum lies tellum frien' yo' , no frien' . 
Yo' no more tellum stop yo' wikiup . 
All time him have bad heart for yo' . 
Got plenty hay , plenty apple , plenty all thing for eat . 
All time him think bad for yo' . 
All time him likum steal yo' ranch . 
You no sabe , he explained . 
Him say , long time ago , pay much money for my ranch . 
Me no sell me like for keep all time . 
Him no steal my ranch . 
Me got one paper from government you sabe ? one paper say ranch all time b'longum me all same . 
Big white chief say ranch b'longum me all time . 
I die , ranch b'longum my boys . 
You sabe ? Peppajee considered . 
Me sabe , he said at length . 
Me sabe paper , sabe ranch all time b'longum yo' . 
All same , him like for ketchum yo' ranch . 
Me hear much talk , him talk Man that coughs , tellum him ketchum ranch . 
Much white man come , so He lifted one hand with thumb and fingers outspread , made a downward gesture , and then raised three fingers . 
Peaceful shook his head while he smiled . 
Mebbyso much men come , heap fight , mebbyso killum me , ranch all same b'longum my boys . 
Men that fights go to jail , mebbyso hangum . 
He indicated by signs his exact meaning . 
Peppajee scowled , and shook his head stubbornly . 
All same , ketchum yo' ranch . 
Man that catchum fish kay bueno . 
Yo' thinkum frien' , yo' damfool . 
Yo' thinkum Peppajee Jim heap big fool . 
Peaceful Hart , him all time one heap big damfool . 
He stopped and stared hard at the dim bulk of the grove , whence came the faint odor of smoke from Baumberger's pipe . 
Yo' be smart man , he added grimly , yo' all same kickum dat mans off yo' ranch . 
For emphasis he thrust out a foot vigorously in the direction of the house and the man he maligned , and turned his face toward camp . 
CHAPTER X MIDNIGHT PROWLERS Came midnight and moonlight together , and with them came also Good Indian riding somewhat sullenly down the trail to the ranch . 
Sullen because of Evadna's attitude , which seemed to him permanently antagonistic , and for very slight cause , and which made the ranch an unpleasant abiding place . 
Wherefore Good Indian had thoughtfully provided himself with a quart or so and rode with his mind at ease so far as his welcome at the Hicks dwelling place was concerned . 
Once again the Peaceful Hart ranch lay in brooding silence under the shadow of the bluff . 
A few crickets chirped shrilly along the trail , and from their sudden hush as he drew near marked unerringly his passing . 
He was guilty of staring hard at that corner of the house where he knew Evadna slept , and of scowling over the vague disquiet which the thought of her caused him . 
No girl had ever troubled his mind before . 
It annoyed him that the face and voice of Evadna obtruded , even upon his thoughts of other things . 
He gave a twitch of his fingers upon the reins , and turned from the trail to investigate . 
Yo' Good Injun me likum for talk yo' . 
Good Indian was conscious of a distinct disappointment , though he kept it from his voice when he answered Oh , it's you , Peppajee . 
What you do here ? Why you no sleepum yo' wikiup ? Peppajee held up a slim , brown hand for silence , and afterward rested it upon the saddle fork . 
Me heap frien' all same . 
Well , what's the row ? Good Indian asked impatiently , and curiously as well . 
Peppajee spoke more hastily than was usual . 
Me watchum Man that catchum fish . 
Him hee eeap kay bueno . 
Me no sabe why him walk , walk in night me heap watchum . 
You mean Baumberger ? He's all right . 
He comes down here to catchum many fish trout , up in the Malad , you sabe . 
You no likum ? Kay bueno . 
Peppajee rested a forefinger upon Good Indian's arm . 
Sun up there , he pointed high in the west . 
Me go all same Hartley . 
Come stable Pete stable me walkum close no makum noise . 
Stoppum no can see me hear much bad talk . 
All time me hear , heap likum for steal dis ranch . 
Me no sabe his tone was doubtful for a space all same , me hear stealum this ranch . 
Man , you callum Baumberger ? suggested Grant . 
All same Baumberga , him talk Man that coughs . 
All time say stealum ranch . 
Makum much bad talk , them mans . 
Me come ranch , me tellum Peaceful , him all time laugh , me . 
Mebbyso thinkum I lie shont isham ! What more you do ? Good Indian , at least , did not laugh . 
Me thinkum , thinkum all time . 
Dat man have bad heart . 
No can sleep thinkum mebbyso do bad for Peaceful . 
Come ranch , stop all time dark , all time heap watchum . 
Him walk still all time , go all time ova there . 
He swept his arm toward the meadows . 
Me go still , for watchum . 
Yo' come , mebbyso make heap much noise kay bueno . 
Dat mans , him hear , him heap scare . 
Me tellum , yo' mebbyso go still . 
He folded his arms with a gesture of finality , and stood statue like in the deep gloom beside the rock . 
Good Indian fingered his horse's mane while he considered the queer story . 
And yet , to steal the Peaceful Hart ranch the idea was ludicrous . 
Still , there was no harm in looking around a bit . 
He sought a sagebrush that suited his purpose , tied his horse to it , stooped , and took tho clanking Mexican spurs from his heels , and touched Peppajee on the shoulder . 
All right , he murmured close to his ear , we go see . 
Without a word , Peppajee turned , and stole away toward the meadows , keeping always in the shadow of rock or bush , silent footed as a prowling bobcat . 
Where the shade stopped abruptly , and beyond lay white moonlight with the ranch buildings blotching it here and there , he stopped and waited until Good Indian stood close beside him . 
Even then he did not speak , but , freeing an arm slowly from the blanket folds , pointed toward the stable . 
All the front of the stable was distinctly visible in the white light , and , while they looked , something flitted across it , and disappeared among the sage beyond the trail . 
Again they waited two minutes , three minutes , five . 
Then another shadow detached itself slowly from the shade of the stable , hesitated , walked out boldly , and crossed the white sand on the path to the house . 
Baumberger it was , and he stopped midway to light his pipe , and so , puffing luxuriously , went on into the blackness of the grove . 
They heard him step softly upon the porch , heard also the bovine sigh with which he settled himself in the armchair there . 
Peppajee touched Grant's arm , and turned back , skirting the poplars again until they were well away from the house , and there was no possibility of being heard . 
He stopped there , and confronted the other . 
What for you no stoppum stable ? he questioned bluntly . 
What for you no stoppum ranch , for sleepum ? I go for stoppum Hicks' ranch , said Good Indian , without any attempt at equivocation . 
What for yo' no stoppum all same Peaceful ? Good Indian scorned a subterfuge , and spoke truly . 
That girl , Evadna , no likum me . 
So I no stoppum ranch , no more . 
Peppajee grinned briefly and understandingly , and nodded his head . 
Yo' all time heap like for catchum that girl , be yo' squaw . 
Bimeby that girl heap likum yo' . 
He stood a moment staring at the stars peeping down from above the rim rock which guarded the bluff . 
All same , yo' no go stoppum Hicks , he commanded . 
Yo' stoppum dis ranch all time . 
Yo' all time watchum man yo' callum Baumberga . 
He seemed to remember and speak the name with some difficulty . 
Where him go , yo' go , for heap watchum . 
All time mebbyso me watchum Man that coughs . 
Me no sabe catchum ranch all same , me watchum . 
Them mans heap kay bueno . 
Yo' bet yo' life ! A moment he stood there after he was through speaking , and then he was not there . 
Good Indian did not hear him go , though he had stood beside him neither could he , catching sight of a wavering shadow , say positively that there went Peppajee . 
That is how Good Indian came to take his usual place at the breakfast table , and to touch elbows with Evadna and to greet her with punctilious politeness and nothing more . 
That is why he got out his fishing tackle and announced that he thought he would have a try at some trout himself , and so left the ranch not much behind Baumberger . 
They rode home together , and together they spent the hot afternoon in the cool depths of the grove . 
By sundown Good Indian was ready to call himself a fool and Peppajee Jim a meddlesome , visionary old idiot . 
Steal the Peaceful Hart ranch ? The more he thought of it , the more ridiculous the thing seemed . 
What did interest him that morning was the changeful mood of Evadna though he kept his interest so well hidden that no one suspected it not even the young lady herself . 
If one is very quiet , and makes no advance whatever , the hunted thing comes closer and closer , and then a sudden pounce he caught his breath . 
After that he was wary and watchful and full of his purpose . 
Within ten minutes Evadna walked into the trap . 
They had started , and were fifty yards up the trail , when Phoebe shouted frantically after them . 
And because she was yet a timid rider and feared to keep the pace set by the others , it was Evadna who heard and turned back to see what was the trouble . 
Aunt Phoebe was standing beside the road , waving a flask . 
It's the cream for your coffee , she cried , going to meet Evadna . 
You can slip it into your jacket pocket , can't you , honey ? Huckleberry is so steady and you won't do any wild riding like the boys . 
I've got my veil and a box of bait and two handkerchiefs and a piece of soap , the girl complained , reaching down for the bottle , nevertheless . 
But I can carry it in my hand till I overtake somebody to give it to . 
The somebody proved to be Good Indian , who had found it necessary to stop and inspect carefully the left forefoot of his horse , without appearing aware of the girl's approach . 
He closed the knife , after wiping the blade upon his trousers leg , and returned it to his pocket before he so much as glanced toward her . 
Why ? He picked up the bridle reins , caught the saddle horn , and thrust his toe into the stirrup . 
From under his hat brim he saw that she was pinching her under lip between her teeth , and the sight raised his spirits considerably . 
Aunt Phoebe called me back , and gave me a bottle of cream , is all . 
I shall have to carry it in my hand , I suppose . 
She twitched her shoulders , and started Huckleberry off again . 
She had called him Grant , instead of the formal Mr. Imsen she had heretofore clung to , and he had not seemed to notice it even . 
He stood perfectly still while Good Indian reached out a hand . 
I'll carry it I'm more used to packing bottles , he announced gravely . 
Oh , but if you must carry it in your hand , I wouldn't dream of She was holding fast the bottle , and trying to wear her Christmas angel look . 
Good Indian laid hold of the flask , and they stood there stubbornly eying each other . 
I thought you wanted me to carry it , he said at last , pulling harder . 
I merely asked if you had an empty pocket . 
Now , what's the use Just what I was thinking ! Evadna was so impolite as to interrupt him . 
Good Indian was not skilled in the management of women , but he knew horses , and to his decision he added an amendment . 
Instinctively he followed the method taught him by experience , and when he fancied he saw in her eyes a sign of weakening , he followed up the advantage he had gained . 
Let go because I'm going to have it anyway , now , he said quietly , and took the flask gently from her hands . 
Then he smiled at her for yielding , and his smile was a revelation to the girl , and brought the blood surging up to her face . 
She rode meekly beside him at the pace he himself set which was not rapid , by any means . 
He watched her with quick , sidelong glances , and wondered whether he would dare say what he wanted to say or at least a part of it . 
Then she looked at Grant unexpectedly , met one of his sharp glances , and flushed hotly again . 
How about this business of hating each other , and not speaking except to please Aunt Phoebe ? he demanded , with a suddenness which startled himself . 
He had been thinking it , but he hadn't intended to say it until the words spoke themselves . 
Oh , I can't fight the air , and I'm not going to try . 
What I've got to say , I prefer to say straight from the shoulder . 
I'm sick of this standing off and giving each other the bad eye over nothing . 
If we're going to stay on the same ranch , we might as well be friends . 
What do you say ? For a time he thought she was not going to say anything . 
You told me you didn't like me , she reminded , looking at him briefly , and afterward fumbling her reins . 
If you could see the mark he hinted shamelessly . 
Evadna replied by pushing up her sleeve and displaying a scratch at least an inch in length , and still roughened and red . 
I suppose you don't remember trying to MURDER me ? she inquired , sweetly triumphant . 
If you could shoot as well as Jack , I'd have been killed very likely . 
And you'd be in jail this minute , she added , with virtuous solemnity . 
But you're not killed , and I'm not in jail . 
And I haven't told a living soul about it not even Aunt Phoebe , Evadna remarked , still painfully virtuous . 
If I had She'd have wondered , maybe , what you were doing away down there in the middle of the night , Good Indian finished . 
I didn't tell a soul , either , for that matter . 
Evadna stared absently at the network of deep gashes , evidently meditating very seriously . 
Finally she turned to Grant with an honest impulse of friendliness . 
Well , I'm sure I'm willing to bury the tomahawk er that is , I mean She blushed hotly at the slip , and stammered incoherently . 
His eyes laughed at her confusion . 
I'm not as bad as all that it doesn't hurt my feelings to have tomahawks mentioned in my presence . 
Her cheeks grew redder , if that were possible , but she made no attempt to finish what she had started to say . 
Good Indian rode silent , watching her unobtrusively and wishing he knew how to bring the conversation by the most undeviating path to a certain much desired conclusion . 
After all , she was not a wild thing , but a human being , and he hesitated . 
In dealing with men , he had but one method , which was to go straight to the point regardless of consequences . 
So he half turned in the saddle and rode with one foot free of the stirrup that he might face her squarely . 
But she did not answer immediately , and so he repeated the question . 
Evadna hung up her head at that . 
Are you in the habit of laying down the law to everyone who will permit it ? she evaded . 
Am I to take it for granted you meant what you said ? He stuck stubbornly to the main issue . 
Girls seem to have a way of saying things , whether they mean anything or not . 
Did you ? Did I what ? She was wide eyed innocence again . 
Good Indian muttered something profane , and kicked his horse in the ribs . 
He glanced at the girl sharply . 
She was beginning to recover her spirits and her composure , and her whole attitude had become demurely impish . 
Settle it then , why don't you ? she taunted sweetly . 
I'm sure I haven't the faintest idea what there is to settle in that solemn manner . 
She must have had some experience in coquetry , but it is very likely that she had never met a man just like this one . 
At all events , she tilted her blonde head , smiled at him daringly , and then made a little grimace meant to signify her defiance of him and his unwarranted earnestness . 
You can't play with ME , he muttered savagely , and kissed her again . 
This is how I settle it . 
You've made me want you for mine . 
It's got to be love or hate now . 
There isn't anything between , for me and you . 
His eyes passed hungrily from her quivering lips to her eyes , and the glow within his own made her breath come faster . 
She struggled weakly to free herself , and his clasp only tightened jealously . 
If you had hated me , you wouldn't have stopped back there , and spoken to me , he said , the words coming in a rush . 
Women like to play with love , I think . 
But you can't play with me . 
And I'm going to have you . 
I'd stake my life on it . 
And he kissed her again . 
Evadna reached up , felt for her hat , and began pulling it straight , and Good Indian , recalled to himself by the action , released her with manifest reluctance . 
He felt then that he ought never to let her go out of his arms it was the only way , it seemed to him , that he could be sure of her . 
Evadna found words to express her thoughts , and her thoughts were as wholly conventional as was the impulse to straighten her hat . 
We've only known each other a week ! she cried tremulously , while her gloved fingers felt inquiringly for loosened hairpins . 
You've no right you're perfectly horrid ! You take everything for granted Good Indian laughed at her , a laugh of pure , elemental joy in life and in love . 
A man's heart does not beat by the calendar . 
Nature made the heart to beat with love , ages before man measured time , and prattled of hours and days and weeks , he retorted . 
I'm not the same man I was a week ago . 
What does it matter I am the man I am NOW . 
He looked at her more calmly . 
An hour ago , he pointed out , I didn't dream I should kiss you . 
Nor you , that you would let me do it . 
I didn't ! I couldn't help myself . 
She struck Huckleberry a blow with her whip which sent that astonished animal galloping down the slope before them , his ears laid back and his white eyelashes blinking resentment against the outrage . 
He was still laughing when he overtook the others , passed by the main group , and singled out Jack , his particular chum . 
I threw naturals three times in succession , he said , and let my bets ride . 
Then I got Big Dick , made good , and threw another natural . 
And say , those conchos you remember the size of 'em , Jack ? they're solid silver , hammered out and engraved by hand . 
Those Mexicans sure do turn out some fine work on their silver fixings ! He felt in his pocket for a match . 
Pity I didn't let well enough alone , he went on . 
I had the price of the outfit , and ten dollars over . 
But then I got hoggish . 
I thought I stood a good chance of making seven lucky passes straight I did once , and I never got over it , I guess . 
I was going to pinch down to ten but I didn't I let her ride . 
Good , wide hat brims have more uses than to shield one's face from the sun . 
He did not even want to be near Evadna . 
He faced to the front , and lighted his cigarette while he listened to the sympathetic chorus from the boys . 
What did you do then ? asked Gene . 
Well , I'd lost the whole blamed chunk on a pair of measly aces , he said . 
I was pretty sore by that time , I'm telling you ! I was down to ten dollars , but I started right in to bring back that hundred and sixty . 
Funny , but I felt exactly as if somebody had stolen that headstall and spurs right out of my hand , and I just had to get it back pronto . 
I got up broke , and had to strike Riley for money to get out of town with . 
So for a time he managed to avoid facing squarely this new and very important factor which must henceforth have its place in the problem of his life . 
Absorption was writ deep on his gross countenance , and he recognized the intruder by the briefest of flickering glances and the slightest of nods . 
Keep back from that hole , will yuh ? he muttered , jerking his head toward the still pool . 
I ain't tried it yet . 
Good Indian was not particularly interested in his own fishing . 
Though his speech might be a slovenly mumble , there was no purposeless fumbling of the fingers that chose a fly and knotted it fast upon the leader . 
Good Indian , looking at him , felt instinctively that a part , at least , of the man's nature was nakedly revealed to him then . 
It seemed scarcely fair to read the lust of him and the utter abandonment to the hazard of the game . 
Pitiless he looked , with clenched teeth just showing between the loose lips drawn back in a grin that was half snarl , half involuntary contraction of muscles sympathetically tense . 
That was when a shimmering thing slithered up , snapped at the fly , and flashed away to the tune of singing reel and the dance of the swaying rod . 
The man grew suddenly cruel and crafty and full of lust and Good Indian , watching him , was conscious of an inward shudder of repulsion . 
He had fished all his life had Good Indian and had found joy in the sport . 
Good Indian did not try to put the thing in words , but he felt it nevertheless . 
Brute ! he muttered aloud , his face eloquent of cold disgust . 
At that moment Baumberger drew the tired fish gently into the shallows , swung him deftly upon the rocks , and laid hold of him greedily . 
Ain't he a beaut ? he cried , in his wheezy chuckle . 
Wait a minute while I weigh him . 
He'll go over a pound , I'll bet money on it . 
Gloatingly he held it in his hands , removed the hook , and inserted under the gills the larger one of the little scales he carried inside his basket . 
Pound and four ounces , he announced , and slid the fish into his basket . 
He was the ordinary , good natured , gross Baumberger now . 
Ho reached for his pipe , placed it in his mouth , and held out a hand to Good Indian for a match . 
Say , young fella , have you got any stand in with your noble red brothers ? he asked , after he had sucked life into the charred tobacco . 
Cousins twice or three times removed , you mean , said Good Indian coldly , too proud and too lately repelled to meet the man on friendly ground . 
Why do you ask ? Baumberger eyed him speculatively while he smoked , and chuckled to himself . 
Saw him when I was comin' up , about sunrise , pokin' along behind me in the sagebrush . 
Didn't think anything of that thought maybe he was hunting or going fishing but he's been sneakin' around behind me ever since . 
I don't reckon he's after my scalp not enough hair to pay but I'd like to know what the dickens he does mean . 
Nothing probably , Good Indian told him shortly , his eyes nevertheless searching the rocks for a sight of the watcher . 
Well , I don't much like the idea , complained Baumberger , casting an eye aloft in fear of snagging his line when he made another cast . 
He was right up there a few minutes ago . 
He pointed his rod toward a sun ridden ridge above them . 
I got a flicker of his green blanket when he raised up and scowled down at me . 
He ducked when he saw me turn my head looked to me like the surly buck that blew in to the ranch the night I came Jim something or other . 
Oh , I know it's funny , young fella , Baumberger growled . 
About as funny as being pestered by a mosquito buzzing under your nose when you're playing a fish that keeps cuttin' figure eights in a hole the size uh that one there . 
I'll go up and take a look , Good Indian offered carelessly . 
Well , I wish you would . 
I can't keep my mind on m' fishing just wondering what the deuce he's after . 
And say ! You tell him I'll stand him on his off ear if I catch him doggie' me ag'in . 
Folks come with yuh ? he remembered to ask as he prepared for another cast into the pool . 
They're down there getting a campfire built , ready to fry what fish they catch , Good Indian informed him , as he turned to climb the bluff . 
They're going to eat dinner under that big ledge by the rapids . 
You better go on down . 
He was not particularly interested in his quest , but he was in the mood for purposeless action he still did not want to think . 
He climbed negligently , scattering loose rocks down the hill behind him . 
He had no expectation of coming upon Peppajee unless Peppajee deliberately put himself in his way and so there was no need of caution . 
He stopped once , and stood long minutes with his head turned to catch the faint sound of high keyed laughter and talk which drifted up to him . 
If he went higher , he thought , he might get a glimpse of them of her , to tell his thought honestly . 
Whereupon he forgot all about finding and expostulating with Peppajee , and thought only a point of the ridge which would give him a clear view downstream . 
To be sure , he might as easily have retraced his steps and joined the group , and seen every changing look in her face . 
But he did not want to be near her when others were by he wanted her to himself , or not at all . 
So he went on , while the sun beat hotly down upon him and the rocks sent up dry waves of heat like an oven . 
His thoughts , however , were brought back to his surroundings so that he remembered Peppajee . 
He stood still , and scanned carefully the jumble of rocks and bowlders which sloped steeply down to the river , looking for a betraying bit of color or dirty gray hat crown . 
But I could look my eyes out and welcome , if he didn't want to be seen , he concluded , and sat down while he rolled a cigarette . 
And I don't know as I want to see him , anyway . 
Still , he did not move immediately . 
He was in the shade , which was a matter for congratulation on such a day . 
He had a cigarette between his lips , which made for comfort and he still felt the exhilarating effects of his unpremeditated boldness , without having come to the point of sober thinking . 
He finished the first cigarette , and rolled another from sheer force of habit rather than because he really wanted one . 
HUL lo ! he greeted , in the manner of one who refuses to acknowledge the seriousness of a situation which confronts him suddenly . 
What's the excitement ? There was no excitement whatever . 
Catchum rattlesnake bite ? queried Good Indian inanely , as is the habit of the onlooker when the scene shouts forth eloquently its explanation , and questions are almost insultingly superfluous . 
Huh ! grunted Peppajee , disdaining further speech upon the subject , and regarded sourly the red drip . 
Want me to suck it ? ventured Good Indian unenthusiastically , eying the wound . 
Huh ! Peppajee removed the pipe , his eyes still upon his ankle . 
Plenty blood come , mebbyso . 
To make sure , however , he kneaded the swollen flesh about the wound , thus accelerating slightly the red drip . 
When he looked again , Peppajee was sucking hard at the pipe , and gazing impersonally at the place . 
He bent again , and hid the glow of his pipe against his ankle . 
His thin lips tightened while he held it there , but the lean , brown fingers were firm as splinters of the rock behind him . 
When the fire cooled , he fanned it to life again with his breath , and when it winked redly at him he laid it grimly against his flesh . 
He regarded critically his handiwork , muttered a Bueno under his breath , knocked the ashes from his pipe , and returned it to some mysterious hiding place beneath his blanket . 
Then he picked up his moccasin . 
Them damn' snake , him no speakum , he observed disgustedly . 
Heap fool me him biteum he made a stabbing gesture with thumb and finger in the air by way of illustration then him go quick . 
He began gingerly trying to force the moccasin upon his foot , his mouth drawn down with the look of one who considers that he has been hardly used . 
How you get home ? Good Indian's thoughts swung round to practical things . 
You got horse ? Peppajee shook his head , reached for his knife , and slit the moccasin till it was no more than a wrapping . 
Mebbyso heap walk , he stated simply . 
Mebbyso you won't do anything of the kind , Good Indian retorted . 
You come down and take a horse . 
What for you all time watchum Baumberger ? he added , remembering then what had brought them both upon the bluff . 
Baumberger all time fish no more . 
He waved his hand toward the Malad . 
Baumberger bueno catchum fish no more . 
Peppajee got slowly and painfully upon his feet rather , upon one foot . 
When Good Indian held out a steadying arm , he accepted it , and leaned rather heavily . 
Yo' eyes sick , said Peppajee , and grinned sardonically . 
Yo' eyes see all time Squaw with sun hair . 
Fillum yo' eyes , yo' see notting . 
Yo' catchum squaw , bimeby mebbyso see plenty mo' . 
Me no catchum sick eye . 
Mebbyso me see heap plenty . 
Aw DARN girls ! And I'm going to pile it on still thicker , Donny ! Good Indian grinned down at him . 
I'm going to swipe your Pirate Chief for a while , till I take Peppajee into camp . 
He's gentle , and Peppajee's got a snake bite . 
I'll be back before you get ready to go home . 
I'm ready to go home right now , growled Donny , sinking his chin between his two palms . 
But I guess the walkin' ain't all taken up . 
Good Indian regarded him frowningly , gave a little snort , and turned away . 
Donny in that mood was not to be easily placated , and certainly not to be ignored . 
Keno he knew would be no more tractable , so that he finally slapped Jack's saddle on Huckleberry , and so got Peppajee mounted and headed toward camp . 
You tell Jack I borrowed his saddle and Huckleberry , he called out to the drooping little figure on the rock . 
But I'll get back before they want to go home . 
But Donny was glooming over his wrongs , and neither heard nor wanted to hear . 
The feeling must be unpleasant in the extreme , and the most morbid of sensation seekers would scarcely put himself in the way of that particular experience . 
Peppajee Jim , therefore , had reason in plenty for glowering at the world as he saw it that day . 
Then , for the first time during the whole ride , he spoke . 
All time , yo' sleepum , he said , in the sonorous , oracular tone which he usually employed when a subject held his serious thought . 
Peaceful Hart , him all same sleepum . 
All same sleepum 'longside snake . 
No seeum snake , no thinkum mebbyso catchum bite . 
He glanced down at his own snake bitten foot . 
Snake bite , make all time much hurt . 
His eyes turned , and dwelt sharply upon the face of Good Indian . 
Yo' all time thinkum Squaw with sun hair . 
Me tell yo' for watchum , yo' no think for watchum . 
Baumberga , him all same snake . 
Yo' think him all time catchum fish . 
HUH ! Yo' heap big fool , yo' thinkum cat . 
Rattlesnake , mebbyso sleepum in sun one time . 
Yo' no thinkum bueno , yo' seeum sleep in sun . 
Yo' heap sabe him all time kay bueno jus' same . 
Yo' heap sabe yo' come close , him biteum . 
Mebbyso biteum hard , for killum yo' all time . 
He paused , then drove home his point like the true orator . 
All same rattlesnake sleepum in sun . 
Good Indian jerked his mind back from delicious recollection of one sweet , swift passing minute , and half opened his lips for reply . 
But he did not speak he did not know what to say , and it is ill spent time that passed in purposeless speech with such as Peppajee . 
Las' night , sun go sleepum . 
Clouds come all same blanket , sun wrappum in blanket . 
Cloud look heap mad mebbyso make much storm . 
Bimeby much mens come in cloud , stand so and so and so . 
With pointing finger he indicated a half circle . 
Otha man come , heap big man . 
Stoppum 'way off , all time makeum sign , for fight . 
Me set by fire , watchum cloud makeum sign . 
Fire smoke look up for say , 'What yo' do all time , mebbyso ? Cloud man shakeum hand , makeum much sign . 
Fire smoke heap sad , bend down far , lookum me , lookum where cloud look . 
All time lookum for Peaceful Hart ranch . 
Me lay down for sleepum , me dream all time much fight . 
All time bad sign come . 
Peppajee shook his head slowly , his leathery face set in deep , somber lines . 
Much trouble come heap quick , he said gravely , hitching his blanket into place upon his shoulder . 
Me no sabe all same , heap trouble come . 
Much mens , mebbyso much fight , much shootum mebbyso kill . 
Peaceful Hart him all time laugh me . 
All same , me sabe smoke sign , sabe cloud sign , sabe Baumberga . 
There might be a sinister meaning in that picture , but it was so well hidden that he had little hope of ever finding it . 
The ranch was quiet , with even the dogs asleep in the shade . 
Peppajee insisted in one sentence upon going straight on to camp , so they did not stop . 
Good Indian took note of the group before it stirred to activity , and murmured anxiety over the bandaged foot of Peppajee . 
Me no can watchum more , mebbyso six days . 
Yo' no sleepum all time yo' walk no thinkum all time squaw . 
Mebbyso yo' think for man snake . 
Mebbyso yo' watchum , Peppajee said , as he swung slowly down from Huckleberry's back . 
That girl was sitting upon the rock which Donny had occupied , and she looked very much as if she were sulking , much as Donny had sulked . 
Good Indian's eyes were upon her while he was dismounting , but he did not go to her immediately . 
Instead , he busied himself with unsaddling , and explained to the boys just why he had left so unaccountably . 
Secretly he was hoping that Evadna heard the explanation , and he raised his voice purposely . 
But Evadna was not listening , apparently and , if she had been , the noise of the rapids would have prevented her hearing what he said . 
His glance took in Baumberger next , and he lifted a shoulder and went on . 
Without intentionally resorting to subterfuge , he felt an urge to wash his hands , and he chose for his ablutions that part of the river's edge which was nearest Evadna . 
Evadna stared stonily over him to where the water boiled fastest . 
He might have been one of the rocks , for all the notice she took of him . 
Good Indian frowned with genuine puzzlement , and began slowly to wash his hands , glancing at her often in hope that he might meet her eyes . 
Aren't you feeling well ? he asked , with tender proprietorship in his tone . 
I'm feeling quite well , thank you , returned Evadna frigidly , neglecting to look at him . 
What is the matter , then ? Aren't you having a good time ? I'm enjoying myself very much except that your presence annoys me . 
I wish you'd go away . 
Good Indian turned on his heel and went he felt that at last Evadna was looking at him , though he would not turn to make sure . 
And his instinct told him withal that he must ignore her mood if he would win her from it . 
He wandered back to the river's edge this time some distance from where Evadna sat and began throwing pebbles at the black nose of a wave washed bowlder away toward the other side . 
Clark and Gene , loitered up , watched him lazily , and , picking up other pebbles , started to do the same thing . 
They came to the point of making bets , at first extravagant and then growing more and more genuinely in earnest , for we're gamblers all , at heart . 
Miss Georgie burned a frying panful of fish until they sent up an acrid , blue smoke , while she ran over to try her luck with a stone or two . 
Even Baumberger heaved himself up from where he was lounging , and strolled over to watch . 
But Evadna could not have stuck closer to her rock if she had been glued there , and if she had been blind and deaf she would not have appeared more oblivious . 
Good Indian grew anxious , and then angry . 
The savage stirred within him , and counseled immediate and complete mastery of her his woman . 
What he did was to throw away the burnt fish , clean the frying pan , and start more sizzling over the fire , which he kicked into just the right condition . 
Never , for one instant , was he unconscious of Evadna's secret watchfulness , and never , for one instant , did he let her see that she was in his thoughts . 
He finished frying the fish , set out the sandwiches and doughnuts , and pickled peaches and cheese , and pounded upon a tin plate to announce that dinner was ready . 
He poured the coffee into the cups held out to him , and got the flask of cream from a niche between two rocks at the water's edge . 
She's had just about all she can stand right now . 
He lowered his head like a bull meditating assault , and his leering eyes shot her a glance of inquiry and suspicion . 
But Miss Georgie Howard met his look with a smile that was nothing more than idle amusement . 
I'd like nothing better than to get that four pounder on my line , she added . 
It would be the joke of the season if a woman caught him . 
Bet you couldn't land him , chuckled Baumberger , breathing a sigh which might have been relief , and ambled away contentedly . 
I may not see you folks again till supper , he bethought him to call back . 
Miss Georgie stood where she was , and watched him with her mouth twisted to one side and three perpendicular creases between her eyebrows . 
When he was out of sight , she glanced at Evadna once more perched sulkily upon the rock . 
Head still bad , chicken ? she inquired cheerfully . 
Better stay here in the shade I won't be gone long . 
I'm going to fish , said Evadna , but she did not stir , not even when Miss Georgie went on , convoyed by all the Hart boys . 
Good Indian had volunteered the information that he was going to fish downstream , but he was a long time in tying his leader and fussing with his reel . 
His preparations were finished just when the last straggler of the group was out of sight . 
Then he laid down his rod , went over to Evadna , took her by the arm , and drew her back to the farther shelter of the ledge . 
Now , what's the trouble ? he asked directly . 
I hope you're not trying to make yourself think I was only You know what I meant , don't you ? And you said yes . 
You said it with your lips , and with your eyes . 
Did you want more words ? Tell me what it is that bothers you . 
There was a droop to Evadna's shoulders , and a tremble to her mouth . 
She would not look at him . 
She kept her eyes gazing downward , perhaps to hide tears . 
Good Indian waited for her to speak , and when it seemed plain that she did not mean to do so , he yielded to his instinct and took her in his arms . 
Sweetheart ! he murmured against her ear , and it was the first time he had ever spoken the word to any woman . 
You love me , I know it . 
You won't say it , but I know you do . 
I should have felt it this morning if you hadn't cared . 
You you let me kiss you . 
And he's the buckaroo that's got no use for girls ! commented Wally , looking after him , and ran his tongue meditatively along the loose edge of his cigarette . 
Kid , I wish you'd tell me how you done it . 
It worked quick , anyhow . 
And thorough , grinned Jack . 
I was thinking some of falling in love with you myself , Vad . 
Soon as some of the shine wore off , and you got so you acted like a real person . 
CHAPTER XIV THE CLAIM JUMPERS Guess that bobcat was after my ducks again , last night , commented Phoebe Hart , when she handed Baumberger his cup of coffee . 
His blood shot eyes , however , rather gave the lie to his statement . 
And I reckon I'll take the evening train home . 
Shoulda gone yesterday , by rights . 
I'd like to get a basket uh fish to take up with me . 
Great coffee , Mrs. Hart , and such cream I never did see . 
I sure do hate to leave so many good things and go back to a boardin' house . 
Look at this honey , now ! He sighed gluttonously , leaning slightly over the table while he fed . 
Dogs were barking at something down in the orchard , Wally volunteered , passing over Baumberger's monologue . 
I was going down there , but it was so dark and I thought maybe it was Gene's ghost . 
That was before the moon came up . 
Got any more biscuits , mum ? My trap wasn't sprung behind the chicken house , said Donny . 
I looked , first thing . 
Dogs , drawled Baumberger , his enunciation muffled by the food in his mouth , always bark . 
And cats fight on shed roofs . 
Next door to where I board there's a dog that goes on shift as regular as a policeman . 
Her hands dropped to the plump shoulder of the sitter . 
Phoebe reached up , and caught the hands in a reassuring clasp . 
Evadna's eyes strayed from one face to another around the table till they rested upon Good Indian , as having found sanctuary there . 
But , Aunt Phoebe , he was WASN'T . 
He was a white man . 
And he has a camp there , right by that tree the lightning peeled the bark off . 
I was close before I saw him , for he was sitting down and the currant bushes were between . 
But I went through to get round where Uncle Hart has been irrigating and it's all mud , and he jumped up and pointed the gun AT me . 
Just as if he was going to shoot me . 
And I turned and ran . 
Her fingers closed upon the hand of her aunt , but her eyes clung to Good Indian , as though it was to him she was speaking . 
Tramp , suggested Baumberger , in a tone of soothing finality , as when one hushes the fear of a child . 
Sick the dogs on him . 
He'll go never saw the hobo yet that wouldn't run from a dog . 
He smiled leeringly up at her , and reached for a second helping of honey . 
Who ever heard of a tramp camped in our orchard ! flouted Phoebe . 
They don't get down here once a year , and then they always come to the house . 
You couldn't know there WAS any strawberry patch behind that thick row of trees or a garden , or anything else . 
He's got a row of stakes running clear across tho patch , Evadna recalled suddenly . 
Just like they do for a new street , or a railroad , or something . 
And Good Indian pushed back his chair with a harsh , scraping noise , and rose . 
He was staring hard at Baumberger , and his whole face had sharpened till it had the cold , unyielding look of an Indian . 
And suddenly Baumberger raised his head and met full that look . 
For two breaths their eyes held each other , and then Baumberger glanced casually at Peaceful . 
Sounds queer must be some mistake , though . 
You must have seen something , girl , that reminded you of stakes . 
The stub off a sagebrush maybe ? He ogled her quite frankly . 
When a little girl gets scared Sick the dogs on him , he advised the family collectively , his manner changing to a blustering anxiety that her fright should be avenged . 
Evadna seemed to take his tone as a direct challenge . 
I was scared , but I know quite well what I saw . 
He had a regular camp , with a coffee pot and frying pan and blankets . 
And there a line of stakes across the strawberry patch . 
Before , the breakfast had continued to seem an important incident temporarily suspended . 
Now Peaceful Hart laid hand to his beard , eyed his wife questioningly , let his glance flicker over the faces of his sons , and straightened his shoulders unconsciously . 
Good Indian was at the door , his mouth set in a thin , straight , fighting line . 
Wally and Jack were sliding their chairs back from the table preparing to follow him . 
I guess it ain't anything much , Peaceful opined optimistically . 
They can't do anything but steal berries , and they're most gone , anyhow . 
Go ask him what he wants , down there . 
The last sentence was but feeble sort of fiction that his boys would await his commands as a matter of fact , they were outside before he spoke . 
Take the dogs along , called out Baumberger , quite as futilely , for not one of the boys was within hearing . 
Until they heard footsteps returning at a run , the four stayed where they were . 
He talked about tramps , and dogs that barked o' nights , and touched gallantly upon feminine timidity and the natural , protective instincts of men . 
Peaceful Hart may have heard half of what he said but more likely he heard none of it . 
He sat drawing his white beard through his hand , and his mild , blue eyes were turned often to Phoebe in mute question . 
At the first clatter of running footsteps on the porch , she and Peaceful pushed back their chairs instinctively . 
The runner was Donny , and every freckle stood out distinctly upon his face . 
There's four of 'em , papa ! he shouted , all in one breath . 
They're jumpin' the ranch for placer claims . 
Each one's got a claim , and they're campin' on the corners , so they'll be close together . 
They're goin' to wash gold . 
Good Injun Oh ! screamed Evadna suddenly . 
Don't let him don't let them hurt him , Uncle Hart ! Aw , they ain't fightin' , Donny assured her disgustedly . 
They're chewin' the rag down there , is all . 
Good Injun knows one of 'em . 
Peaceful Hart stood indecisively , and stared , one and gripping the back of his chair . 
His lips were working so that his beard bristled about his mouth . 
They can't do nothing the ranch belongs to me , he said , his eyes turning rather helplessly to Baumberger . 
Jumping our ranch ! for placer claims ! Phoebe stood up , leaning hard upon the table with both hands . 
He picked up a crisp fragment of biscuit , crunched it between his teeth , and chewed it slowly . 
Can't be anything serious and if it is , why I'm here . 
A lawyer right on the spot may save a lot of trouble . 
The main thing is , let's not get excited and do something rash . 
Those boys Not excited ? and somebody jumping our ranch ? Phoebe's soft eyes gleamed at him . 
She was pale , so that her face had a peculiar , ivory tint . 
Now , now ! Baumberger put out a puffy hand admonishingly . 
Let's keep cool that's half the battle won . 
He reached for his pipe , got out his twisted leather tobacco pouch , and opened it with a twirl of his thumb and finger . 
You're a lawyer , Mr. Baumberger , Peaceful turned to him , still helpless in his manner . 
What's the best thing to be done ? Don't get excited . 
Baumberger nodded his head for every word . 
That's what I always say when a client comes to me all worked up . 
We'll go down there and see just how much there is to this , and order 'em off . 
Calmly , calmly ! No violence no threats just tell 'em firmly and quietly to leave . 
He stuffed his pipe carefully , pressing down the tobacco with the tip of a finger . 
Then , he added with slow emphasis , if they don't go , after say twenty four hours' notice why , we'll proceed to serve an injunction . 
He drew a match along the back of his chair , and lighted his pipe . 
I reckon we'd better go and look after those boys of yours , he suggested , moving toward the door rather quickly , for all his apparent deliberation . 
They're inclined to be hot headed , and we must have no violence , above all things . 
Keep it a civil matter right through . 
Much easier to handle in court , if there's no violence to complicate the case . 
They're looking for it , Phoebe reminded him bluntly . 
The man had a gun , and threw down on Vadnie . 
He only pointed it at me , auntie , Evadna corrected , ignorant of the Western phrase . 
The two women followed the men outside and into the shady yard , where the trees hid completely what lay across the road and beyond the double row of poplars . 
Donny , leaning far forward and digging his bare toes into the loose soil for more speed , raced on ahead , anxious to see and hear all that took place . 
You can get an injunction , and The idea of anybody trying to hold our place for mineral land ! Phoebe's indignation was cumulative always , and was now bubbling into wrath . 
Why , my grief ! Thomas spent one whole summer washing every likely spot around here . 
He never got anything better than colors on this ranch and you can get them anywhere in Idaho , almost . 
And to come right into our garden , in the right and stake a placer claim ! Her anger seemed beyond further utterance . 
The idea ! she finished weakly . 
Well but we mustn't let ourselves get excited , soothed Baumberger , the shadow of him falling darkly upon Peaceful and Phoebe as he strode along , upon the side next the sun . 
Peppajee would have called that an evil thing , portending much trouble and black treachery . 
That's where people always blunder in a thing like this . 
A little cool headedness goes farther than hard words or lead . 
And , he added cheeringly , it may be a false alarm , remember . 
We'll just make sure of our ground , first thing we do . 
It's always easy enough to be calm over the other fellow's trouble , said Phoebe sharply , irritated in an indefinable way by the oily optimism of the other . 
It ain't your ox that's gored , Mr. Baumberger . 
Baumberger lengthened his stride , and so reached the spot first . 
The boys were grouped belligerently in the strawberry patch , just outside a line of new stakes , freshly driven in the ground . 
Beyond that line stood a man facing them with a . 
balanced in the hollow of his arm . 
In the background stood three other men in open spaces in the shrubbery , at intervals of ten rods or so , and they also had rifles rather conspicuously displayed . 
They were grinning , all three . 
Even from a distance they could see that he was fidgeting uncomfortably while he listened , and that his breath was beginning to come jerkily . 
Now , roll your blankets and GIT ! Good Indian finished sharply , and with the toe of his boot kicked the nearest stake clear of the loose soil . 
He stooped , picked it up , and cast it contemptuously from him . 
Now , now , we don't want any overt acts of violence here , wheezed Baumberger , laying hand upon Good Indian's shoulder from behind . 
Good Indian shook off the touch as if it were a tarantula upon him . 
You go to the devil , he advised chillingly . 
Tut , tut ! Baumberger reproved gently . 
The ladies are within hearing , my boy . 
Let's get at this thing sensibly and calmly . 
Violence only makes things worse . 
See how quiet Wally and Jack and Clark and Gene are ! THEY realize how childishly spiteful it would be for them to follow your example . 
They don't want Jack grinned , and hitched his gun into plainer view . 
When we start in , it won't be STICKS we're sending to His Nibs , he observed placidly . 
We're just waiting for him to ante . 
It's just a bide beyond you youngsters . 
This is a civil case . 
Don't foolishly make it come under the criminal code . 
But there ! His voice purred at them again . 
You're all too clear headed and sensible . 
Oh , sure ! Wally gave his characteristic little snort . 
We're only just standing around to see how fast the cabbages grow ! Baumberger advanced boldly across the dead line . 
Stanley , put down that gun , and explain your presence here and your object , he rumbled . 
Let's get at this thing right end to . 
His manner lost little of its watchfulness , and his voice was surly with defiance when he spoke . 
But Good Indian , regarding him suspiciously through half closed lids , would have sworn that a look of intelligence flashed between those two . 
All there is to it , Stanley began blustering , you see before yuh . 
I've located twenty acres here as a placer claim . 
That there's the northwest corner ap prox'm'tley close as I could come by sightin' . 
Your fences are straight with yer land , and I happen to sabe all yer corners . 
I've got a right here . 
I ain't goin' to build no trouble but I sure do aim to defend my prope'ty rights if I have to . 
I realize yuh may think diffrunt from me . 
You've got a right to prove , if yuh can , that all this ain't mineral land . 
I've got jest as much right to prove it is . 
He took a breath so deep it expanded visibly his chest a broad , muscular chest it was and let his eyes wander deliberately over his audience . 
That there's where I stand , he stated , with arrogant self assurance . 
I happen to know Peaceful began , suddenly for him . 
But Baumberger waved him into silence . 
You'll have to prove there's gold in paying quantities here , he stated pompously . 
That's what I aim to do , Stanley told him imperturbably . 
I proved , over fifteen years ago , that there WASN'T , Peaceful drawled laconically , and sucked so hard upon his pipe that his cheeks held deep hollows . 
Sorry I can't let it go at that , he said ironically . 
I reckon I'll have to do some washin' myself , though , before I feel satisfied there ain't . 
Then you haven't panned out anything yet ? Phoebe caught him up . 
Stanley's eyes flickered a questioning glance at Baumberger , and Baumberger puffed out his chest and said The law won't permit you to despoil this man's property without good reason . 
We can serve an injunction You can serve and be darned . 
Stanley's grin returned , wider than before . 
As my own legal adviser , he returned calmly , I hereby declare that you can go plumb to HEL ena . 
Stanley evidently felt impelled to adapt his vocabulary to feminine ears , for he glanced at them deprecatingly and as if he wished them elsewhere . 
He had that stoniness of expression which betrays strong emotion held rigidly in check , with which his quivering nostrils and the light in his half shut eyes contrasted strangely . 
He had missed no fleeting glance , no guarded tone , and he was thinking and weighing and measuring every impression as it came to him . 
Of some things he felt sure of others he was half convinced and there was more which he only suspected . 
And all the while he stood there quietly beside Evadna , his attitude almost that of boredom . 
If he goes , they'll all go . 
Better say he's a TOUGH case , blurted Wally , and turned on his heel . 
What the devil are they standing around on one foot for , making medicine ? he demanded angrily of Good Indian , who unceremoniously left Evadna and came up with him . 
I'D run him off the ranch first , and do my talking about it afterward . 
That hunk uh pork is kicking up a lot uh dust , but he ain't GETTING anywhere ! Exactly . 
Good Indian thrust both hands deep into his trousers pockets , and stared at the ground before him . 
I don't know how it hits you , Grant but there's something fishy about it . 
Good Indian took one long step over the ditch , and went on steadily . 
Wally , coming again alongside , turned his head , and regarded him attentively . 
Injun's on top , he diagnosed sententiously after a minute . 
Looks like he's putting on a good , thick layer uh war paint , too . 
You might hand me the brush when you're through , he hinted grimly . 
I might like to get out after some scalps myself . 
That so ? Good Indian asked inattentively , and went on without waiting for any reply . 
They left the garden , and went down the road to the stable , Wally passively following Grant's lead . 
Someone came hurrying after them , and they turned to see Jack . 
The others had evidently stayed to hear the legal harangue to a close . 
They've located twenty acres apiece , he says staked 'em out in the night and stuck up their notices and everyone's going to STICK . 
They're all going to put in grizzlies and mine the whole thing , he told dad . 
He just the same as accused dad right out of covering up valuable mineral land on purpose . 
And he says the law's all on their side . 
He leaned hard against the stable , and drew his fingers across his forehead , white as a girl's when he pushed back his hat . 
Baumberger , he said cheerlessly , was still talking injunction when I left , but He flung out his hand contemptuously . 
I wish dad wasn't so began Wally moodily , and let it go at that . 
Good Indian threw up his head with that peculiar tightening of lips which meant much in the way of emotion . 
He'll listen to Baumberger , and he'll lose the ranch listening , he stated distinctly . 
If there's anything to do , we've got to do it . 
We can run 'em off maybe , suggested Jack , his fighting instincts steadied by the vivid memory of four rifles held by four men , who looked thoroughly capable of using them . 
This isn't a case of apple stealing , Good Indian quelled sharply , and got his rope from his saddle with the manner of a man who has definitely made up his mind . 
What CAN we do , then ? Wally demanded impatiently . 
Not a thing at present . 
Good Indian started for the little pasture , where Keno was feeding and switching methodically at the flies . 
You fellows can do more by doing nothing to day than if you killed off the whole bunch . 
He came back in a few minutes with his horse , and found the two still moodily discussing the thing . 
He glanced at them casually , and went about the business of saddling . 
Where you going ? asked Wally abruptly , when Grant was looping up the end of his latigo . 
Just scouting around a little , was the unsatisfactory reply he got , and he scowled as Good Indian rode away . 
Howdy , Peppajee ? How you foot ? he asked , when his unaccustomed eyes discerned the old fellow lying back against the farther wall . 
Huh ! Him heap sick all time . 
Having his injury thus brought afresh to his notice , Peppajee reached down with his hands , and moved the foot carefully to a new position . 
Last night , Good Indian began without that ceremony of long waiting which is a part of Indian etiquette , much men come to Hart ranch . 
He held up his two outspread hands , with the thumbs tucked inside his palms . 
Come in dark , no seeum till sun come back . 
One man put sticks in ground , say that part belong him . 
He flung up his hands , lowered them , and immediately raised them again . 
Eight men do that all same . 
Have guns , grub , blankets stop there all time . 
Say that ranch have much gold , stake placer claims . 
Baumberger he saw Peppajee's eyelids draw together tell men to go away . 
Tell Peaceful he fight those men in court . 
You sabe Ask Great Father to tell those men they go away , no wash gold on ranch . 
There is no hurrying the speech of an Indian . 
Peppajee smoked stolidly , his eyes half closed and blinking sleepily . 
The veneer of white men's ways dropped from him when he entered his own wikiup , and he would not speak quickly . 
Las' night mebbyso yo' watchum ? he asked , as one who holds his judgment in abeyance . 
I let those men come while I think of a girl . 
Good Indian was too proud to parry , too bitter with himself to deny . 
He had not said the thing before , even to himself , but it was in his heart to hate his love , because it had cost this catastrophe to his friends . 
But after a time he spoke more sympathetically . 
Yo' let heap trouble come . 
This day yo' heart bad , mebbyso . 
This day yo' no thinkum squaw all time . 
Mebbyso yo' thinkum fight , no sabe how yo' fight . 
It would seem that Peppajee understood , even though his speech was halting . 
At that moment much of the unfounded prejudice , which had been for a few days set aside because of bigger things , died within him . 
He had disliked Peppajee as a pompous egotist among his kind . 
His latent antagonism against all Indians because they were unwelcomely his blood relatives had crystallized here and there against certain individuals of the tribe . 
Old Hagar he hated coldly . 
In his youthful arrogance he had not troubled to see the real man of mettle under that dingy green blanket . 
Now he looked at Peppajee with a startled sense that he had never known him at all , and that Peppajee was not only a grimy Indian he was also a man . 
Me no sabe one thing . 
One otha thing me sabe . 
Yo' no b'lieve Baumberga one frien' . 
Them mens come , Baumberga tellum come all time . 
All time him try for foolum Peaceful . 
I come here , said Good Indian I think you mebbyso hear talk , you tell me . 
My heart heap sad , I let this trouble come . 
I want to kill that trouble . 
Mebbyso make my friends laugh , be heap glad those men no stealum ranch . 
You hear talk , mebbyso you tell me now . 
Peppajee smoked imperturbably what time his dignity demanded . 
At length he took the pipe from his mouth , stretched out his arm toward Hartley , and spoke in his sonorous tone , calculated to add weight to his words . 
Yo' go speakum Squaw talk far off , he commanded . 
All time makum talk talk He drummed with his fingers upon his left forearm . 
Heap sabe Baumberga kay bueno . 
He thinkum sabe stealum ranch . 
All time heap talk come Man that coughs , come all same Baumberga . 
Heap smart , dat squaw . 
A smile laid its faint light upon his grim old lips , and was gone . 
Thinkum yo' heap bueno , dat squaw . 
All time glad for talkum yo' . 
Good Indian stood up , his head bent to avoid scraping his hat against the sloping roof of the wikiup . 
You no hear more talk all time you watch ? he asked , passing over Miss Georgie's possible aid or interest in the affair . 
Much talkum no can hear . 
All time them damn' Baumberga shut door no talkum loud . 
All time Baumberga walkum in dark . 
Walkum where apples grow , walkum grass , walkum all dat ranch all time . 
All time me heap watchum . 
Snake come , bitum foot no can watchum mo' . 
Dat time , much mens come . 
Baumberga all time talkum , him heap frien' Peacefu' heap snake all time . 
Speakum two tongue Yo' no b'lievum . 
All time heap big liar , him . 
Yo' go , speakum Squaw talk far off . 
Heap smart , all same mans . 
He settled back with a gesture of finality , and so Good Indian left him . 
Indeed , he never heard her or if he did , her clamor was to him as the yelping of the dogs which filled his ears , but did not enter his thoughts . 
Good Indian was thinking how barren had been his talk with Peppajee , and was realizing keenly how much he had expected from the interview . 
It is frequently by the depth of our disappointment only that we can rightly measure the height of our hope . 
He had come to Peppajee for something tangible , some thing that might be called real evidence of the conspiracy he suspected . 
He had got nothing but suspicion to match his own . 
As for Miss Georgie Howard What can she do ? he thought resentfully , feeling as if he had been offered a willow switch with which to fight off a grizzly . 
It seemed to him that he might as sensibly go to Evadna herself for assistance , and that , even his infatuation was obliged to admit , would be idiotic . 
Peppajee , he told himself when he reached his horse , was particularly foolish sometimes . 
With that in his mind , he mounted and turned Keno's head toward Hartley . 
He was secretly thinking of Peppajee's information that Miss Georgie thought he was bueno , and he was wondering if it were true . 
Not that he wanted it to be true ! But he was man enough to look at her with a keener interest than he had felt before . 
Howdy , Mr. Imsen ? she greeted him lightly . 
So much she helped him . 
She was a bright young woman indeed , that she saw he wanted help . 
I don't believe I came to see you officially at all , he said , and his eyes lighted a little as he looked at her . 
Peppajee Jim told me to come . 
He said you're a 'heap smart squaw , all same mans . 
Item One pound of red and white candy for Peppajee Jim next time I see him . 
Miss Georgie laughed but she also sat down so that her face was turned to the window . 
Are you in urgent need of a heap smart squaw ? she asked . 
I thought she caught herself up , and then went recklessly on I thought yesterday that you had found one ! It's brains I need just now . 
After the words were out , Good Indian wanted to swear at himself for seeming to belittle Evadna . 
Yes , I think you had better tell me why you need me particularly . 
I know the chicken's perfect , and doesn't lack brains , and you didn't mean that she does . 
You're all stirred up over something . 
What's wrong ? Miss Georgie would have spoken in just that tone if she had been a man or if Grant had been a woman . 
So Good Indian told her . 
Well , I don't see how you could prevent it , or what you could have done unless you had kicked old Baumberger into the Snake . 
He's the god in this machine . 
Good Indian had been fiddling with his hat and staring hard at a pile of old ties just outside the window . 
He raised his head , and regarded her steadily . 
It was beginning to occur to him that there was a good deal to this Miss Georgie , under that offhand , breezy exterior . 
He felt himself drawn to her as a person whom he could trust implicitly . 
You're right as far as I'm concerned , he owned , with his queer , inscrutable smile . 
I think you're also right about him . 
What makes you think so , anyway ? Miss Georgie twirled a ring upon her middle finger for a moment before she looked up at him . 
My daddy was a lawyer , she threw in by way of explanation . 
I used to help him in the office a good deal . 
When he died , I didn't know enough to go on and be a lawyer myself , so I took to this . 
She waved her hand impatiently toward the telegraph instrument . 
So it's like this Eight men can take placer claims can hold them , you know for one man . 
That's the limit , a hundred and sixty acres . 
Those eight men aren't jumping that ranch as eight individuals they're in the employ of a principal who is engineering the affair . 
If I were going to shy a pebble at the head mogul , I'd sure try hard to hit our corpulent friend with the fishy eye . 
And that , she added , is what all these cipher messages for Saunders mean , very likely . 
Baumberger had to have someone here to spy around for him and perhaps help him choose or at least get together those eight men . 
They must have come in on the night train , for I didn't see them . 
I'll bet they're tough customers , every mother's son of them ! Fighters down to the ground , aren't they ? I only saw four . 
They were heeled , and ready for business , all right , he told her . 
Soon as I saw what the game was , and that Baumberger was only playing for time and a free hand , I pulled out . 
I thought Peppajee might give me something definite to go on . 
Baumberger's going to steal that ranch according to law , you see , Miss Georgie stated with conviction . 
They've got to pan out a sample of gold to prove there's pay dirt there , before they can file their claims . 
And they've got to do their filing in Shoshone . 
I've got some of daddy's law books over in my trunk , and maybe I can look it up and make sure . 
But I know they haven't filed their claims yet . 
They've GOT to take possession first , and they've got to show a sample of ore , or dust , it would be in this case . 
The best thing to do She drew her eyebrows together , and she pinched her under lip between her thumb and forefinger , and she stared abstractedly at Good Indian . 
Oh , hurry up , Grant ! she cried unguardedly . 
There'd still be the eight . 
I'D like , she declared viciously , to put rough on rats in his dinner , but I intend to refrain from doing as I'd like , and stick to what's best . 
Good Indian gave her a glance of grateful understanding . 
This thing has hit me hard , he confided suddenly . 
I've been holding myself in all day . 
The Harts are like my own folks . 
So much of Good Indian would never find expression in speech all that was best of him would not , one might be tempted to think . 
By the way , is there any pay dirt on that ranch ? Miss Georgie kept herself rigidly to the main subject . 
Not , he added dryly , unless it has grown gold in the last few years . 
There are colors , of course . 
I must be getting stupid , not to have thought of that , he said . 
Can't give me credit for being 'heap smart' ? she bantered . 
Daddy had a good deal of that in his business , being in a mining country . 
We've got to know just where we stand , it seems to me , because Baumberger's going to use the laws himself , and it's with the law we've got to fight him . 
She had to go first and put a stop to the hysterical chattering of the sounder by answering the summons . 
It proved to be a message for Baumberger , and she wrote it down in a spiteful scribble which left it barely legible . 
Betraying professional secrets , but I don't care , she exclaimed , turning swiftly toward him . 
Listen to this 'How's fishing ? Landed the big one yet ? Ready for fry ? She threw it down upon the table with a pettish gesture that was wholly feminine . 
Sounds perfectly innocent , doesn't it ? Too perfectly innocent , if you ask me . 
He came up yesterday with fish for Pete , he SAID , and of course he really did have some and sent a wire to Shoshone . 
I found it on file when I came back . 
That was perfectly innocent , too . 
It was 'Expect to land big one to night . 
I've an excellent memory , you see . 
Of course , she laughed , when she rustled in again like a whiff of fresh air , I had to go clear to the bottom of the last trunk I looked in . 
Lucky I only have three to my name , for it would have been in the last one just the same , if I'd had two dozen and had ransacked them all . 
Like candy ? Help yourself , if you do , she said , and tucked a piece into her mouth absent mindedly before she laid the leather bound book open on the table . 
Now , we'll see what information Mr. Copp can give us . 
He's a high authority General Land Office Commissioner , if you please . 
He's a few years old several years old , for that matter but I don't think he's out of date I believe what he says still goes . 
It isn't alphabetically arranged , which I consider sloppy of Mr. Copp . 
Ah h ! 'Minerals Discovered After Patent Has Issued to Agricultural Claimant' two hundred and eight . 
We'll just take a look at that first . 
That's what they're claiming , you know . 
She hitched her chair closer , and flipped the leaves eagerly . 
When she found the page , they touched heads over it , though Miss Georgie read aloud . 
Oh , it's a letter but it's a decision , and as such has weight . 
U m ! SIR In reply to your letter of inquiry . 
Very respectfully , 'PASS WITH THE PATENT ! Miss Georgie turned her face so that she could look into Grant's eyes , so close to her own . 
Old Peaceful must surely have his patent Baumberger can't be much of a lawyer , do you think ? Because that's a flat statement . 
Well , we'll just browse along for more of the same , she suggested cheerfully , and went back to the index . 
But first she drew a lead pencil from where it had been stabbed through her hair , and marked the letter with heavy brackets , wetting the lead on her tongue for emphasis . 
'Agricultural Claimants Entitled to Full Protection , she read hearteningly from the index , and turned hastily to see what was to be said about it . 
It happened to be another decision rendered in a letter , and they jubilated together over the sentiment conveyed therein . 
Now , here is what I was telling you , Grant , she said suddenly , after another long minute of studying silently the index . 
'Eight Locaters of Placer Ground May Convey to One Party' and Baumberger's certainly that party ! 'Who Can Secure Patent for One Hundred and Sixty Acres . 
We'll just read up on that , and find out for sure what the conditions are . 
Really , I'm beginning to think Baumberger's awfully stupid , to even attempt such a silly thing . 
He hasn't a legal leg to stand on . 
'Goes with the patent' that sounds nice to me . 
They're not locating in good faith those eight jumpers down there . 
She fortified herself with another piece of candy . 
All you need , she declared briskly , is a good lawyer to take this up and see it through . 
You seem to be doing pretty well , he remarked , his eyes dwelling rather intently upon her face , and smiling as they did so . 
I can read what's in the book , she remarked lightly , her eyes upon its pages as if she were consciously holding them from meeting his look . 
But it will take a lawyer to see the case through the courts . 
And let me tell you one thing very emphatically . 
She looked at him brightly . 
Many a case as strong as this has been lost , just by legal quibbling and ignorance of how to handle it properly . 
Many a case without a leg to stand on has been won , by smooth work on the part of some lawyer . 
Now , I'll just jot down what they'll have to do , and prove , if they get that land and look here , Mr. Man , here's another thing to consider . 
Maybe Baumberger doesn't expect to get a patent . 
Maybe he means to make old Peaceful so deucedly sick of the thing that he'll sell out cheap rather than fight the thing to a finish . 
And if they didn't fight and keep on fighting , they could lose it so there you are . 
She shut the book with a slam . 
Oh ! she exclaimed , and widened her indigo eyes at him sitting there and looking so much at home . 
Come right in , chicken , Miss Georgie invited cordially . 
Don't stand there in the hot sun . 
Mr. Imsen is going to turn the seat of honor over to you this instant . 
When did you come up ? Good Indian asked her , trying so hard to keep a placating note out of his voice that he made himself sound apologetic . 
Oh about an hour ago , I think , Evadna drawled sweetly the sweet tones which always mean trouble , when employed by a woman . 
I'm going now , if you're ready , he told her shortly , and reached for his hat . 
Evadna rocked a moment longer , making him wait for her reply . 
She glanced at Miss Georgie still busy at the telegraph table , gave a little sigh of resignation , and rose with evident reluctance . 
Oh if you're really going , she drawled , and followed him outside . 
CHAPTER XVI DON'T GET EXCITED ! Lovers , it would seem , require much less material for a quarrel than persons in a less exalted frame of mind . 
It humiliated him even to think of apologizing or explaining , and he was the type of man who resents humiliation more keenly than a direct injury . 
She stopped outside the window long enough to chirp a commonplace sentence or two to Miss Georgie , and to explain just why she couldn't stay a minute longer . 
And Marie has the toothache again . 
So I really must go . 
Good by come down whenever you can , won't you ? She smiled , and she waved a hand , and she held up her riding skirt daintily as she turned away . 
You didn't say goodby to Georgie , she reminded Grant , still making use of the chirpy tone . 
I hope I am not in any way responsible . 
I don't see how you could be , said Good Indian calmly and that , for some reason , seemed to intensify the atmosphere with which Evadna chose to surround herself . 
You seem to be in a good deal of a hurry , Good Indian observed . 
Not particularly , she replied , still chirpy as to tone and supercilious as to her manner . 
It would be foolish to repeat all that was said during that ride home , because so much meaning was conveyed in tones and glances and in staring straight ahead and saying nothing . 
He got the chance to admire a very stiff pair of shoulders and a neck to match for his answer . 
Baumberger happened to be in the way , and he backed again , more hastily than before , to avoid being run over . 
Snow blind ? he interrogated , forcing a chuckle which had more the sound of a growl . 
That gentleman seemed to be once more obstructing the path of Good Indian . 
He dodged back as Grant brushed past him . 
His forehead smoothed a trifle , as if that one sentence had relieved him of some of his bottled bitterness . 
YOU ain't shrunk up none in your estimation , Baumberger forgot his pose of tolerant good nature to say . 
His heavy jaw trembled as if he had been overtaken with a brief attack of palsy so also did the hand which replaced his pipe between his loosely quivering lips . 
That little yellow haired witch must have given yuh the cold shoulder but you needn't take it out on me . 
Had a quarrel ? He painstakingly brushed some ashes from his sleeve , once more the wheezing , chuckling fat man who never takes anything very seriously . 
Did you ever try minding your own business ? Grant inquired with much politeness of tone . 
We e ell , yuh see , m' son , it's my business to mind other people's business ! He chuckled at what he evidently considered a witty retort . 
I've been pouring oil on the troubled waters all forenoon maybe I've kinda got the habit . 
Only you're pouring it on a fire this time . 
That dangerous , yuh mean ? You're liable to start a conflagration you can't stop , and that may consume yourself , is all . 
Say , they sure do teach pretty talk in them colleges ! he purred , grinning loosely , his own speech purposely uncouth . 
Good Indian turned upon him , stopped as quickly , and let his anger vent itself in a sneer . 
It had occurred to him that Baumberger was not goading him without purpose because Baumberger was not that kind of man . 
Good Indian felt for one instant as if he were that trout , and Baumberger was playing him skillfully . 
He's trying to make me let go all holds and tip my hand , he thought , keenly reading him , and he steadied himself . 
What d'yuh mean by me pouring oil on fire ! Baumberger urged banteringly . 
Sounds like the hero talking to the villain in one of these here save him he's my sweetheart plays . 
You go to the devil , said Good Indian shortly . 
Don't repeat yourself , m' son it's a sign uh failing powers . 
Good Indian saw that involuntary arm movement , but he saw it from the tail of his eye , and he drew his lips a little tighter . 
Clearly Baumberger was deliberately trying to force him into a rage that would spend some of its force in threats , perhaps . 
He therefore grew cunningly calm , and said absolutely nothing . 
He led Huckleberry into the stable , came out , and shut the door , and walked past Baumberger as if he were not there at all . 
I gotta WATCH that jasper , he mumbled over his pipe , as a sort of summing up , and started slowly to the house . 
Halfway there he spoke again in the same mumbling undertone . 
He's got the Injun look in his eyes t' day . 
It is astonishing how a family can live for months together , and not realize how little real privacy there is for anyone until something especial comes up for secret discussion . 
At dinner he could not speak without being heard by all . 
After dinner , the family showed an unconscious disposition to bunch . 
Evadna , it is true , strolled rather self consciously off to the head of the pond , carefully refraining , as she passed , from glancing toward Good Indian . 
He did not gain anything by staying , for Peaceful had little to say , seeming to be occupied mostly with dreamy meditations . 
Baumberger droned on , mostly relating the details of cases he had won against long odds cases for the most part similar to this claim jumping business . 
Nothing had been done that day , Grant gathered , beyond giving the eight claimants due notice to leave . 
The boys were evidently dissatisfied about something , though they said nothing . 
They shifted their positions with pettish frequency , and threw away cigarettes only half smoked , and scowled at dancing leaf shadows on the ground . 
He felt sure that Baumberger's ears were pricked toward the sound of his footsteps , and he made them purposely audible . 
Hello , Mother Hart , he called out cheerfully to Phoebe , pottering down in the coolness . 
Don't you worry a bit , little mother , he said softly . 
I think we can beat them at their own game . 
They've stacked the deck , but we'll beat it , anyhow . 
His hand slid down to her arm , and gave it a little , reassuring squeeze . 
Oh , Grant , Grant ! She laid her forehead against him for a moment , then looked up at him with a certain whimsical solicitude . 
Never mind our trouble now . 
What's this about you and Vadnie ? The boys seem to think you two are going to make a match of it . 
His eyes smiled down at her with their old , quizzical humor , which she had not seen in them for some days . 
I foresee that we're due to scrap a good deal of the time , he predicted . 
But we'll make out , all right . 
You didn't he blushed consciously you didn't think I was going to to fall dead in love Didn't I ? Phoebe laughed at him openly . 
I'd have been more surprised if you hadn't . 
Why , my grief ! I know enough about human nature , I hope , to expect Churning ? The voice of Baumberger purred down to them . 
There he stood bulkily at the top of the steps , good naturedly regarding them . 
His glance just grazed Good Indian , and passed him over as being of no consequence . 
If you don't happen to have any handy , it don't matter in the least , he added , and turned to go when Phoebe shook her head . 
Anything we can get for yuh at the store , Mrs. Hart ? Won't be any trouble at all Oh , all right . 
He had caught another shake of the head . 
The pipe , and also his head , again indicated the men in the orchard . 
We don't want any ill feeling stirred up , you understand , and so they'd better just keep away from 'em . 
They're good boys they'll do as you say . 
He leered at her ingratiatingly , shot a keen , questioning look at Good Indian , and went his lumbering way . 
Grant went to the top of the steps , and made sure that he had really gone before he said a word . 
Mother Hart , on the square , what do you think of Baumberger ? he asked her abruptly . 
Come and sit down I want to talk with you if I can without having the whole of Idaho listening . 
But something well , I get notions about things sometimes . 
And I can't , somehow , feel just right about him taking up this jumping business . 
I guess it's just a feeling , because I can see you don't like him . 
And the boys don't seem to , either , for some reason . 
I guess it's because he won't let 'em get right after those fellows and drive 'em off the ranch . 
They've been uneasy as they could be all day . 
She sat down upon a rough stool just inside the door , and looked up at him with troubled eyes . 
I wish I could be as cool headed as Thomas , she said , with a tinge of petulance . 
I guess so , she admitted , answering the last question first . 
I haven't had a real good chance to talk to Thomas all day . 
Baumberger has been with him most of the time . 
But I guess he is anyway , Baumberger seems to take it for granted he's got the case . 
Thomas hates to hurt anybody's feelings , and , even if he didn't want him , he'd hate to say so . 
But he's as good a lawyer as any , I guess . 
And Thomas seems to like him well enough . 
Thomas , she reminded Good Indian unnecessarily , never does say much about anything . 
I'd like to get a chance to talk to him , Good Indian observed . 
I'll have to just lead him off somewhere by main strength , I guess . 
Baumberger sticks to him like a bur to a dog's tail . 
What are those fellows doing down there now ? Does anybody know ? You heard what he said to me just now , Phoebe said , impatiently . 
He don't want anybody to go near . 
I don't wonder the boys are all sulky . 
If Baumberger wasn't here at all , I guess we'd have got rid of 'em before now . 
I don't know as I think very much of lawyers , anyhow . 
I believe I'd a good deal rather fight first and go , to law about it afterward if I had to . 
But Thomas is so CALM ! I think I'll go down and have a look , said Good Indian suddenly . 
I'm not under Baumberger's orders , if the rest of the bunch is . 
And I wish you'd tell Peaceful I want to talk to him , Mother Hart will you ? Tell him to ditch his guardian angel somehow . 
Please don't look at me that way , Aunt Phoebe , she said , when she discovered her there inside the door . 
Here's a horrible young villain who doesn't know how to behave , and makes me do all the making up . 
I don't like him one bit , and I just came to tell him so and be done . 
And I don't suppose , she added , holding her two hands tightly over his mouth , he has a word to say for himself . 
Since he was effectually gagged , Grant had not a word to say . 
Even when he had pulled her hands away and held them prisoners in his own , he said nothing . 
This was Evadna in a new and unaccountable mood , it seemed to him . 
She had certainly been very angry with him at noon . 
She had accused him , in that roundabout way which seems to be a woman's favorite method of reaching a real grievance , of being fickle and neglectful and inconsiderate and a brute . 
Good Indian was not in the habit of saying things , even in anger , which he did not mean , and he could not understand how anyone else could do so . 
Don't scold me , Aunt Phoebe , she begged , perhaps because there was something in Phoebe's face which she did not quite understand , and so mistook for disapproval of her behavior . 
It all happened so unexpectedly really , I never dreamed I cared anything for him , Aunt Phoebe , until he made me care . 
He might have told you before he went chasing off to to Hartley . 
She put her arms around her aunt's neck . 
You aren't angry , are you , Aunt Phoebe ? she coaxed . 
You you know you said you wanted me to be par TIC ularly nice to Grant ! Great grief , child ! You needn't choke me to death . 
Of course I'm not angry . 
But Phoebe's eyes did not brighten . 
You look angry , Evadna pouted , and kissed her placatingly . 
I've got plenty to be worked up over , without worrying over your love affairs , Vadnie . 
Phoebe's eyes sought Grant's anxiously . 
I don't doubt but what it's more important to you than anything else on earth , but I'm thinking some of the home I'm likely to lose . 
Evadna drew back , and made a movement to go . 
Oh , I'm sorry I interrupted you then , Aunt Phoebe . 
I suppose you and Grant were busy discussing those men in the orchard Don't be silly , child . 
You aren't interrupting anybody , and there's no call for you to run off like that . 
We aren't talking secrets that I know of . 
In some respects the mind of Good Indian was extremely simple and direct . 
His knowledge of women was rudimentary and based largely upon his instincts rather than any experience he had had with them . 
He had been extremely uncomfortable in the knowledge that Evadna was angry , and strongly impelled , in spite of his hurt pride , to make overtures for peace . 
He was puzzled , as well as surprised , when she seized him by the shoulders and herself made peace so bewitchingly that he could scarcely realize it at first . 
She was not angry with him . 
Therefore , he was free to turn his whole attention to this trouble which had come upon his closest friends . 
But he did not say anything to her he was a young man unused to dalliance when there were serious things at hand . 
I'm going down there and see what they're up to , he told Phoebe , giving Evadna's hand a squeeze and letting it go . 
I suspect there's something more than keeping the peace behind Baumberger's anxiety to have them left strictly alone . 
The boys had better keep away , though . 
Are you going down in the orchard ? Evadna rounded her unbelievably blue eyes at him . 
You'll do nothing of the kind , little Miss Muffit , he declared from the top step . 
Why not ? I might want to do some swearing . 
He grinned down at her , and started off . 
Now , Grant , don't you do anything rash ! Phoebe called after him sharply . 
'Don't get excited ! he retorted , mimicking Baumberger . 
I'm going a little way , whether you want me to or not , Evadna threatened , pouting more than ever . 
She did go as far as the porch with him , and was kissed and sent back like a child . 
It was pure accident that made her witness what took place at the gate . 
When he saw Good Indian he grunted , fumbled in his blanket , and held out a yellowish envelope . 
Ketchum Squaw talk far off , he explained gutturally . 
Good Indian took the envelope , thinking it must be a telegram , though he could not imagine who would be sending him one . 
His name was written plainly upon the outside , and within was a short note scrawled upon a telegraph form Come up as soon as you possibly can . 
I've something to tell you . 
That was what she had written . 
He read it twice before he looked up . 
What time you ketchum this ? he asked , tapping the message with his finger . 
Ketchum one dolla , mebbyso pikeway quick . 
No stoppum , he said virtuously . 
You see Peaceful in Hartley ? Good Indian asked the question from an idle impulse in reality , he was wondering what it was that Miss Georgie had to tell him . 
Peacefu' , him go far off . 
All same heap fat man go 'long . 
Mebbyso Shoshone , mebbyso Pocatello . 
If Peaceful had gone to Shoshone , he was gone , and that settled it . 
Undoubtedly he would return the next day perhaps that night , even . 
Mebbyso ketchum one dolla , yo' , hinted Charlie , the buck . 
But Good Indian went on without paying any attention to him . 
At the road he met Jack and Wally , just returning from the orchard . 
No use going down there , Jack informed him sulkily . 
They're just laying in the shade with their guns handy , doing nothing . 
They won't let anybody cross their line , and they won't say anything not even when you cuss 'em . 
Wally and I got black in the face trying to make them come alive . 
Baumberger got back yet ? Wally and I have got a scheme He and your dad took the train for Shoshone . 
Say , does anyone know what that bunch over in the meadow is up to ? Good Indian leaned his back against a tree , and eyed the two morosely . 
Clark and Gene are over there , said Wally . 
But I'd gamble they aren't doing any more than these fellows are . 
They haven't started to pan out any dirt they haven't done a thing , it looks like , but lay around in the shade . 
I must say I don't sabe their play . 
And the worst of it is , he added desperately , a fellow can't do anything . 
I'm going to break out pretty darned sudden , Jack observed calmly . 
I feel it coming on . 
He smiled , but there was a look of steel in his eyes . 
Good Indian glanced at him sharply . 
Now , you fellows' listen to me , he said . 
This thing is partly my fault . 
I could have prevented it , maybe , if I hadn't been so taken up with my own affairs . 
Old Peppajee told me Baumberger was up to some devilment when he first came down here . 
He heard him talking to Saunders in Pete Hamilton's stable . 
And the first night he was here , Peppajee and I saw him down at the stable at midnight , talking to someone . 
Peppajee kept on his trail till he got that snake bite , and he warned me a plenty . 
But I didn't take much stock in it or if I did He lifted his shoulders expressively . 
So , he went on , after a minute of bitter thinking , I want you to keep out of this . 
You know how your mother would feel You don't want to get foolish . 
You can keep an eye on them to night especially . 
I've an idea they're waiting for dark and if I knew why , I'd be a lot to the good . 
And if I knew why old Baumberger took your father off so suddenly , why I'd be wiser than I am now . 
He lifted his hat , brushed the moisture from his forehead , and gave a grunt of disapproval when his eyes rested on Jack . 
What yuh loaded down like that for ? he demanded . 
You fellows better put those guns in cold storage . 
I'm like Baumberger in one respect we don't want any violence ! He grinned without any feeling of mirth . 
Something else is liable to be put in cold storage first , Wally hinted , significantly . 
I must say I like this standing around and looking dangerous , without making a pass ! I wish something would break loose somewhere . 
I notice you're packing yours , large as life , Jack pointed out . 
Maybe you're just wearing it for an ornament , though . 
Indeed , he scarcely knew himself . 
Why don't you invite me to go along ? Evadna challenged from the gate , when he was ready to start . 
She laughed when she said it , but there was something beneath the laughter , if he had only been close enough to read it . 
I didn't think you'd want to ride through all that dust and heat again to day , he called back . 
You're better off in the shade . 
Going to call on 'Squaw talk far off' AGAIN ? She was still laughing , with something else beneath the laugh . 
He glanced at her quickly , wondering where she had gotten the name , and in his wonder neglected to make audible reply . 
Also he passed over the change to ride back to the gate and tell her good by with a hasty kiss , perhaps , from the saddle as a lover should have done . 
He was not used to love making . 
For him , it was settled that they loved each other , and would marry some day he hoped the day would be soon . 
Trouble sat upon his mind like a dead weight , and dulled his perception , perhaps . 
Jack and Wally came up , scowling at the world and finding no words to match their gloom . 
Wally gave her a glance , and went on to the blacksmith shop , but Jack went straight up to her , for he liked her well . 
What's the matter ? he asked dully . 
Oh , the whole place is like a GRAVEYARD , she complained . 
Nobody will talk , or do anything but just wander around ! I just can't STAND it ! Which was not frank of her . 
It's too hot to do much of anything , he said apologetically . 
We might take a ride , if you don't mind the heat . 
You don't want to ride , she objected petulantly . 
Why didn't you go with Good Indian ? he countered . 
Because I didn't want to . 
And I do wish you'd quit calling him that he has a real name , I believe . 
If you're looking for a scrap , grinned Jack , I'll stake you to my six gun , and you can go down and kill off a few of those claim jumpers . 
You seem to be in just about the proper frame uh mind to murder the whole bunch . 
Fly at it ! It begins to look as if we women would have to do something , she retorted cruelly . 
There doesn't seem to be a man on the ranch with spirit enough to stop them from digging up the whole I guess that'll be about enough , Jack interrupted her , coldly . 
Why didn't you say that to Good Indian ? I told you not to call him that . 
I don't see why everybody is so mean to day . 
He laughed then , for the first time that day , and if Evadna had been in a less vixenish temper she would have laughed with him just as everyone else always did . 
But instead of that , she began to cry again , which made Jack feel very much a brute . 
Oh , come on and be good , he urged remorsefully . 
But Evadna turned and ran back into the house and into her room , and cried luxuriously into her pillow . 
Jack , peeping in at the window which opened upon the porch , saw her there , huddled upon the bed . 
In the spring house his mother sat crying silently over her helplessness , and failed to respond to his comforting pats upon the shoulder . 
He was of an acquisitive nature , was Charlie and the road to his favor must be paved with gifts . 
And Jack was the mild one of the family . 
So also did the other boys , running in long leaps through the garden and arriving at the spot very belligerent and very much out of breath . 
And I ain't offering any violence to anybody . 
You can't hang a man , Mr. Stanley , for shooting up a frying pan . 
And I wouldn't hurt you for anything ! He had just reloaded , so that his bullets saw him to the end of the sentence . 
Stanley watched his coffee pot dance and roll like a thing in pain , and swore when all was done . 
But he did not shoot , though one could see how his fingers must itch for the feel of the trigger . 
Your old dad will sweat blood for this and you'll be packing your blanket on your back and looking for work before snow flies , was his way of summing up . 
Still , he did not shoot . 
It was like throwing pebbles at the bowlder in the Malad , the day before . 
They stopped when their belts were empty as well as their guns , and they went back to the house with the women , feeling much better . 
Your father would put a stop to it pretty quick if he was here , she declared over and over . 
Just because they didn't shoot back this time is no sign they won't next time you boys go to hectoring them . 
All the while she knew she was wasting her breath , and she had a secret fear that her manner and her tones were unconvincing . 
If she had been a man , she would have been their leader , perhaps . 
So she retreated at last to her favorite refuge , the milk house , and tried to cover her secret approval with grumbling to herself . 
There was a lull in the house . 
The boys , it transpired , had gone in a body to Hartley after more cartridges , and the cloud of dust which hovered long over the trail testified to their haste . 
They returned surprisingly soon , and they would scarcely wait for their supper before they hurried back through the garden . 
One would think that they were on their way to a dance , so eager they were . 
It really was unsafe for one to dance a clog , with flapping arms and taunting laughter , within range of those rises , and they told Donny so . 
He would have fired again if the recoil had not thrown him quite off his balance , and it is possible that someone would have been killed as a result . 
For Stanley began firing with murderous intent , and only the dusk and Good Indian's opportune arrival prevented serious trouble . 
Good Indian had talked long with Miss Georgie , and had agreed with her that , for the present at least , there must be no violence . 
Saunders had disappeared unaccountably , after a surreptitious conference with Baumberger the day before , and it was that which Miss Georgie had to tell him . 
Saunders was in the habit of sleeping late , so that she did not know until noon that he was gone . 
Pete was worried , and garrulously feared the worst . 
The worst , according to Pete Hamilton , was sudden death of a hemorrhage . 
I don't believe there's a single honest thing about the fellow , she said to Good Indian . 
When he coughs , it sounds as if he just did it for effect . 
When he lies in the shade asleep , I've seen him watching people from under his lids . 
When he reads , his ears seem always pricked up to hear everything that's going on , and he gives those nasty little slanty looks at everybody within sight . 
I don't believe he's really gone because I can't imagine him being really anything . 
But I do believe he's up to something mean and sneaky , and , since Peppajee has taken this matter to heart , maybe he can find out something . 
I think you ought to go and see him , anyway , Mr. Imsen . 
He got them all out of the garden and into the house by sheer determination and biting sarcasm , and bore with surprising patience their angry upbraidings . 
But when they were gone he sat alone upon the porch , brooding over the day and all it had held of trouble and perplexity . 
So great was his absorption that he let her go , and it never occurred to him that she might possibly consider herself ill used . 
He would have been distressed if he could have known how she cried herself to sleep but , manlike , he would also have been puzzled . 
Immediately afterward he thought he heard the sharp crack which a rifle makes , but the wind was blowing strongly up the valley , and he could not be sure . 
He went over to the chicken house , probed with his knife blade into the plank where was the splintered hole , and located a bullet . 
He marked the place instinctively with his eyes , and went on to the stable , stepping rather more quickly than was his habit . 
Inside , he sat down upon the oats box , and meditated upon what he should do . 
He could not even guess at his assailant , much less reach him . 
A dozen men could be picked off by a rifle in the hands of one at the top , while they were climbing that bluff . 
Easy enough if one were but left to climb in peace , but absolutely suicidal if an enemy stood above . 
Whoever was up there , he would have more than enough time to get completely away from the spot before it would be possible to gain so much as a glimpse of him . 
Where you ketchum ? he asked , coming a bit closer . 
In the side of the chicken house . 
Good Indian's tone was laconic . 
Wally reached out , and took the bullet from him that he might juggle it curiously in his own fingers . 
I don't think ! he scouted . 
There's another one there to match this , Good Indian stated calmly , and if I should walk over there after it , I'll gamble there'd be more . 
Wally dropped the flattened bullet , stooped , and groped for it in the litter on the floor , and when he had found it he eyed it more curiously than before . 
But he would have died in his tracks rather than ask a question . 
Didn't anybody take a shot at you , as you came from the house ? Good Indian asked when he saw the mood of the other . 
If he did , he was careful not to let me find it out . 
He was more careless a while ago , said Good Indian . 
Some fellow up on the bluff sent me a little morning salute . 
But , he added slowly , and with some satisfaction , he's a mighty poor shot . 
Jack sauntered in much as Wally had done , saw Good Indian sitting there , and wrinkled his eyes shut in a smile . 
Please , sir , I never meant a word I said ! he began , with exaggerated trepidation . 
Why the dickens didn't you murder the whole yapping bunch of us , Grant ? He clapped his hand affectionately upon the other's shoulder . 
Good Injun says someone on the bluff took a shot at him when he was coming to the stable . 
If any of them jumpers It's easy to find out if it was one of them , Grant cut in , as if the idea had just come to him . 
We can very soon see if they're all on their little patch of soil . 
Let's go take a look . 
They went out guardedly , their eyes upon the rim rock . 
Good Indian led the way through the corral , into the little pasture , and across that to where the long wall of giant poplars shut off the view . 
I admire courage , he grinned , but I sure do hate a fool . 
The three peered out at them from a distant ambush , made sure that there were only two men there , and went on to the disputed part of the meadows . 
There the four were pottering about , craning necks now and then toward the ranch buildings as if they half feared an assault of some kind . 
Good Indian led the way back to the stable . 
If there was any way of getting around up there without being seen , he began thoughtfully , but there isn't . 
And while I think of it , he added , we don't want to let the women know about this . 
They're liable to suspect something , Wally reminded dryly , if one of us gets laid out cold . 
It doesn't look as if he could hit anything smaller than a haystack . 
And anyway , I think I'm the boy he's after , though I don't see why . 
I haven't done a thing yet . 
Let's feed the horses and then pace along to the house , one at a time , and find out , was Jack's reckless suggestion . 
Anybody that knows us at all can easy tell which is who . 
And I guess it would be tolerably safe . 
Foolhardy as the thing looked to be , they did it , each after his own manner of facing a known danger . 
Jack went first because , as he said , it was his idea , and he was willing to show his heart was in the right place . 
He rolled and lighted a cigarette , wrinkled his eyes shut in a laugh , and strolled nonchalantly out of the stable . 
Keep an eye on the rim rock , boys , he called back , without turning his head . 
A third of the way he went , stopped dead still , and made believe inspect something upon the ground at his feet . 
Ah , go ON ! bawled Wally , his nerves all on edge . 
Wally snorted disdain of any proceeding so spectacular , but he was as he was made , and he could not keep his dare devil spirit quite in abeyance . 
He joined Jack in the shade , and his face , when he looked back to the stable , was anxious . 
It must be Grant he wants , all right , he muttered , resting one hand on Jack's shoulder and speaking so he could not be overheard from the house . 
And I wish to the Lord he'd stay where he's at . 
It was not until his free hand was upon the gate that lack and Wally knew they had been holding their breath . 
Well here I am , said Good Indian , after a minute , smiling down at them with the sunny look in his eyes . 
I'm beginning to think I had a dream . 
Only he dipped his fingers into the pocket of his shirt and brought up the flattened bullet that is pretty blamed realistic for a dream . 
His eyes searched involuntarily the rim rock with a certain incredulity , as if he could not bring himself to believe in that bullet , after all . 
But two of the jumpers are gone , said Wally . 
I reckon we stirred 'em up some yesterday , and they're trying to get back at us . 
They've picked a dandy place , Good Indian observed . 
I think maybe it would be a good idea to hold that fort ourselves . 
We should have thought of that only I never thought Phoebe , heavy eyed and pale from wakefulness and worry , came then , and called them in to breakfast . 
Gene and Clark came in , sulky still , and inclined to snappishness when they did speak . 
Donny announced that he had been in the garden , and that Stanley told him he would blow the top of his head off if he saw him there again . 
And I never done a thing to him ! he declared virtuously . 
Phoebe set down the coffee pot with an air of decision . 
I want you boys to remember one thing , she said firmly , and that is that there must be no more shooting going on around here . 
It isn't only what Baumberger thinks I don't know as ho's got anything to say about it it's what I think . 
I know I'm only a woman , and you all consider yourselves men , whether you are or not , and it's beneath your dignity , maybe , to listen to your mother . 
But your mother has seen the day when she was counted on as much , almost , as if she'd been a man . 
The color came into her cheeks at the memory , and a sparkle into her eyes . 
I've seen real fighting , when it was a life and death matter . 
I've tended to the men that were shot before my eyes , and I've sung hymns over them that died . 
You boys have grown up on some of the stories about the things I've been through . 
Oh , you can laugh it's only your mother ! she exclaimed indignantly , when she saw Jack's eyes go shut and Gene's mouth pucker into a tight knot . 
I may be away behind the times I guess I am ! but I've always been used to the idea that guns weren't to be used unless you meant business . 
This thing of getting out and PLAYING gun fight is kinda sickening to a person that's seen the real thing . 
'Scaring Mum to death ! She seemed to find it very hard to forget that , or to forgive it . 
As was frequently the case , the wave of Phoebe's wrath ebbed harmlessly away in laughter as the humorous aspect of her tirade was brought to her attention . 
Just the same , I want you should mind what I tell you , she said , in her old motherly tone , and keep away from those ruffians down there . 
You can't do anything but make 'em mad , and give 'em an excuse for killing someone . 
When your father gets back , we'll see what's to be done . 
We won't look toward the garden to day , Wally promised largely , and held out his cup to her to be refilled . 
You can keep my gun , if you want to make dead sure . 
No , I can trust my boys , I hope , and she glowed with real pride in them when she said it . 
Good Indian lingered on the porch for half an hour or so , waiting for Evadna to appear . 
Don't interrupt , please , she said mincingly . 
And , she troubled to explain , I'm really in a hurry , because I'm going to help Aunt Phoebe make strawberry jam . 
If she thought that would fix his determination to remain and have her to himself for a few minutes , she was mistaken in her man . 
They were much inclined to be skeptical regarding the bullet which Good Indian carried in his breast pocket . 
WE can't raise anybody , Wally told him disgustedly , and I've made three round trips myself . 
I'm going to quit fooling around , and go to work . 
Whether he did or not , Good Indian did not wait to prove . 
He did not say anything , either , about his own plans . 
He was hurt most unreasonably because of Evadna's behavior , and he felt as if he were groping about blindfolded so far as the Hart trouble was concerned . 
There must be something to do , but he could not see what it was . 
He saddled Keno , and rode away in that silent preoccupation which the boys called the sulks for want of a better understanding of it . 
As a matter of fact , he was trying to put Evadna out of his mind for the present , so that he could think clearly of what he ought to do . 
At the same time something spatted into the trail ahead of him , sending up a little spurt of fine sand . 
Keno started , perked up his ears toward the place , and went on , stepping gingerly . 
Good Indian's lips drew back , showing his teeth set tightly together . 
Still at it , eh ? he muttered aloud , pricked Keno's flanks with his rowels , and galloped around the Point . 
There , for the time being , he was safe . 
His gun was in his hand , and his finger crooked upon the trigger , when a voice he faintly recognized called to him softly Yo' no shoot no shoot me no hurtum . 
Beaded moccasins were on her feet , and her eyes were frightened eyes , with the wistfulness of a timid animal . 
Yet she did not seem to be afraid of Good Indian . 
I sorry I scare yo' horse , she said hesitatingly , speaking better English than before . 
I heap hurry to get here . 
Well , what is it ? Good Indian's tone was not as brusque as his words indeed , he spoke very gently , for him . 
This was the good looking young squaw he had seen at the Indian camp . 
What's your name ? he asked , remembering suddenly that he had never heard it . 
Peppajee , he my uncle . 
She glanced up at him shyly , then down to where the pliant toe of her moccasin was patting a tiny depression into the dust . 
Bad mans like for shoot yo' , she said , not looking directly at him again . 
Him up there , all time walk where him can look down , mebbyso see you , mebbyso shootum . 
I know I'm going to ride around that way and round him up . 
Unconsciously his manner had the arrogance of strength and power to do as he wished , which belongs to healthy young males . 
N o , no o ! She drew a sharp breath o' no good there ! Dim shoot yo' . 
Yo' no go ! Ah h I sorry I tellum yo' now . 
I watch , I take care him no shoot . 
I want yo' she hesitated I want yo' be heap careful . 
I want yo' no ride close by hill . 
Ride far out ! She made a sweeping gesture toward the valley . 
He was staring at her in a puzzled way . 
She was handsome , after her wild , half civilized type , and her anxiety for his welfare touched him and besought his interest . 
Indians go far down She swept her arm down the narrowing river valley . 
Peppajee stay no can walk far . 
All go , mebbyso stay five days . 
Her hand lifted involuntarily to mark the number . 
He did not know why she told him all that , and he could not learn from her anything about his assailant . 
She had been walking along the bluff , he gathered though why , she failed to make clear to him . 
She had , from a distance , caught a glimpse of a man watching the valley beneath him . 
She had seen him raise a rifle , take long aim , and shoot and she had known that he was shooting at Good Indian . 
When he was turning back at last toward Hartley , he saw Rachel for a moment standing out against the deep blue of the sky , upon the very rim of the bluff . 
On the heels of that came a vision of Evadna swinging in the hammock which hung between the two locust trees , and he longed unutterably to be with her there . 
It was not so long ago , that evening . 
The time that had passed since might be reckoned easily in hours , but to Good Indian it seemed a month , at the very least . 
Two furtive eyed individuals answering your description bought round trip tickets and had me flag sixteen for them . 
They got on , all right . 
They'd leave someone always on the ground , that's a cinch . 
And Saunders , she went on rapidly , returned safe enough . 
He sneaked in just before I closed the office last night , and asked for a telegram . 
There wasn't any , and he sneaked out again and went to bed so Pete told me this morning . 
And most of the Indians have pulled out squaws , dogs , papooses , and all on some fishing or hunting expedition . 
I don't know that it has anything to do with your affairs , or would even interest you , though . 
And there has been no word from Peaceful , and they can't possibly get back now till the four thirty five . 
And that's all I can tell you , Mr. Imsen , she finished crisply , and took up a novel with a significance which not even the dullest man could have ignored . 
Good Indian stared , flushed hotly , and made for the door . 
Thank you for the information . 
I'm afraid this has been a lot of bother for you , he said stiffly , gave her a ceremonious little bow , and went his way stiff necked and frowning . 
Miss Georgie leaned forward so that she could see him through the window . 
She watched him cross to the store , go up the three rough steps to the platform , and disappear into the yawning blackness beyond the wide open door . 
She did not open the novel and begin reading , even then . 
What a fool what a fool ! she repeated at the end of ten moody minutes . 
You certainly are the prize fool ! she said , when she switched off the current , and she said it with vicious emphasis . 
Miss Georgie was freight agent as well as many other things , and she went out and stood bareheaded in the sun to watch the unloading . 
So for an hour , perhaps . 
There was no fog when she pushed Evadna into the seat of honor , however , and her mouth abetted her eyes in smiling . 
Everything at tho ranch is perfectly horrid , Evadna complained pathetically , leaning back in the rocking chair . 
I'd just as soon be shut up in a graveyard . 
And you should have heard how they swore at Grant afterward ! They just called him everything they could think of for making them stop . 
I had to sit around on the other side of the house and even then I couldn't help hearing most of it . 
And to day it is worse , because they just go around like a lot of dummies and won't do anything but look mean . 
Aunt Phoebe was so cross CROSS , mind you ! because I burnt the jam . 
I wish I could have an office and live in it and telegraph things to people , she sighed , and laughed again most adorably at her own childishness . 
A lot of good that does , when he's never there ! flashed Evadna , unintentionally revealing her real grievance . 
He just eats and goes and he isn't even there to eat , half the time . 
And when he's there , he's grumpy , like all the rest . 
She was saying the things she had told herself , on the way up , that she would DIE rather than say to Miss Georgie , of all people . 
I expect he's pretty worried , chicken , over that land business . 
Miss Georgie offered her candy , and Evadna waved the box from her impatiently , as if her spirits were altogether too low for sweets . 
Well , I'm very sure I'M not to blame for those men being there , she retorted petulantly . 
He she hesitated , and then plunged heedlessly on he acts just as if I weren't anybody at all . 
My Heavens above ! Miss Georgie faced her suddenly with pink cheeks . 
And even if that were true , is that any reason why he should AVOID me ? I'M not threatening his life ! He doesn't avoid you . 
And you're acting sillier than I ever supposed you could . 
He can't be in two places at once , can he ? Now , let's be sensible , chicken . 
Grant Oh h ! There was a peculiar , sliding inflection upon that word , which made Miss Georgie's hand shut into a fist . 
Grant Miss Georgie put a defiant emphasis upon it is doing all he can to get to the bottom of that jumping business . 
There's something crooked about it , and he knows it , and is trying to I know all that . 
He feels in a certain sense responsible Yes , I know . 
He thinks he should have been watching somebody or something instead of of being with me . 
Miss Georgie pressed her lips together tightly for a minute . 
When she spoke , she was cheerfully impersonal as to tone and manner . 
Chicken , you're a little goose . 
The man is simply crazy about you , and harassed to death with this ranch business . 
She glanced toward the door as if she meditated an immediate departure , but ended by settling back in the chair and beginning to rock again . 
It's a nasty , underhand business from start to finish , said Miss Georgie , ignoring the remark . 
It has upset everybody me included , and I'm sure it isn't my affair . 
It's just one of those tricky cases that you know is rotten to the core , and yet you can't seem to get hold of anything definite . 
My dad had one or two experiences with old Baumberger and if ever there was a sly old mole of a man , he's one . 
Did you ever take after a mole , chicken ? They used to get in our garden at home . 
They burrow underneath the surface , you know , and one never sees them . 
I used to call them Baumbergers , even then . 
Dad , she finished reminiscently , was always jabbing his law stick down where the earth seemed to move but he never located old Baumberger , to my knowledge . 
She stopped , because Evadna , without a shadow of doubt , was looking bored . 
Miss Georgie regarded her with the frown she used when she was applying her mental measuring stick . 
Ah , well she dismissed analysis and the whole subject with a laugh that was partly yawn away with dull care . 
It's too hot to think or feel . 
A real emotion is as superfluous and oppressive as a a 'camel petticoat ! This time her laugh was real and infectiously carefree . 
Take off your hat , chicken . 
Miss Georgie hated herself for sliding into sheer flippancy , but she preferred that extreme to the other , and she could not hold her ground just then at the happy medium . 
Evadna , however , seemed to disapprove of the flippancy . 
She did not take off her hat , and she stated evenly that she must go , and that she really did not care for lemonade , or claret punch , either . 
What , in Heaven's name , DO you care for besides yourself ? flared Miss Georgie , quite humanly exasperated . 
There , chicken the heat always turns me snappy , she repented instantly . 
She held out a beautiful , tapering forearm , and smiled . 
I'm the snappy one , said Evadna , but she did not smile as she began drawing on her gauntlets slowly and deliberately . 
If she were waiting for Miss Georgie to come back to the subject of Grant , she was disappointed , for Miss Georgie did not come to any subject whatever . 
A handcar breezed past the station , the four section men pumping like demons because of the slight down grade and their haste for their dinner . 
Huckleberry gave one snort and one tug backward upon the tie rope and then a coltish kick into the air when he discovered that he was free . 
He was a wise little pinto Huckleberry . 
And now , I suppose I'll have the pleasure of walking home , grumbled Evadna , standing upon the platform and gazing , with much self pity , after her runaway . 
It's noon stay and eat dinner with me , chicken . 
Some of the boys will bring him back after you the minute he gets to the ranch . 
It's too hot to walk . 
Miss Georgie laid a hand coaxingly upon her arm . 
But Evadna was in her mood of perversity . 
She wouldn't stay to dinner , because Aunt Phoebe would be expecting her . 
She wouldn't wait for Huckleberry to be brought back to her , because she would never hear the last of it . 
She didn't mind the heat the least bit , and she would walk . 
And no , she wouldn't borrow Miss Georgie's parasol she hated parasols , and she always had and always would . 
She gathered up her riding skirt , and went slowly down the steps . 
Miss Georgie could be rather perverse herself upon occasion . 
She lifted her shoulders in what might be disdain , and made no reply whatever . 
Little idiot ! gritted Miss Georgie and this time she was not speaking of herself . 
Horribly hot , isn't it ? I wish I could sleep till noon . 
It would make the days shorter , anyway . 
I opened up the store , and then I went back to bed , Saunders replied limply . 
Just got up when the freight pulled in . 
Made so blamed much noise it woke me . 
I seem to need a good deal of sleep . 
He coughed behind his hand , and lingered inside the door . 
It was so unusual for Miss Georgie to make conversation with him that Saunders was almost pitifully eager to be agreeable . 
Though to be sure , she smiled , the prospect is not inviting , to say the least . 
Put it would be a change I'd run up and down the track , if I didn't have to stick here in this office all day . 
I can't stand walking , Saunders whined . 
To illustrate , he gave another little hack behind his hand . 
I went up to the stable yesterday with a book , and laid down in the hay . 
And I went to sleep , and Pete thought I was lost , I guess . 
He grinned , which was not pleasant , for he chewed tobacco and had ugly , discolored teeth into the bargain . 
I like to lay in the hay , he added lifelessly . 
I guess I'll take my bed up there that lean to is awful hot . 
Well , you're lucky that you can do exactly as you please , and sleep whenever you please . 
Miss Georgie turned to her telegraph instrument , and began talking in little staccato sparks of electricity to the agent at Shoshone , merely as a hint to Saunders to take himself away . 
Ain't been anything for me ? he asked , still lingering . 
Miss Georgie shook her head . 
Item But whatever the item was , she jotted it down silently in that mental memorandum book which was one of her whims . 
Once I put a thing in that little blue book of mine , she used to tell her father , it's there for keeps . 
And there's the advantage that I never leave it lying around to be lost , or for other people to pick up and read to my everlasting undoing . 
It's better than cipher for I don't talk in my sleep . 
The four thirty five train came in its own time , and brought the two missing placer miners . 
But it did not bring Baumberger , nor Peaceful Hart , nor any word of either . 
The ice cream came , and the cake , and the magazines and she left the whole pile just inside the door without undoing a wrapping . 
At five o'clock she rose abruptly from the rocker , in which she had just deposited herself with irritated emphasis , and wired her chief for leave of absence until seven . 
It's important , Mr. Gray . 
Business which can't wait , she clicked urgently . 
I'll be back before Eight is due . 
Miss Georgie did not often send that last word of her own volition . 
She went straight to the store , and straight back to where Pete Hamilton was leaning over a barrel redolent of pickled pork . 
I dunno where Saunders is again , he said , letting his consent be taken for granted . 
But I'll go myself and saddle up , if you'll mind the store . 
Oh , I can saddle , all right , Pete . 
I've got two hours off , and I want to ride down to see how the Harts are getting along . 
Exciting times down there , from all accounts . 
Maybe I can round up Saunders . 
He must be somewheres around , Pete suggested languidly , wrapping the pork in a piece of brown paper and reaching for the string which dangled from the ball hung over his head . 
Saunders is asleep , very likely . 
If he isn't in his room , never mind hunting him . 
The horse is in the stable , I suppose . 
I can saddle better than Saunders . 
Pete tied the package , wiped his hands , and went heavily out . 
He returned immediately , said that Saunders must be up at the stable , and turned his attention to weighing out five pounds of white beans . 
She did not saddle the horse at once . 
She went outside , and looked carefully at her immediate surroundings . 
There's hardly a root of it anywhere around close , she said to herself . 
Nor around the store , either nor any place where one would be apt to go ordinarily . 
She stood there meditatively for a few minutes , remembered that two hours do not last long , and saddled hurriedly . 
The camp was merely a litter of refuse and the ashes of various campfires , with one wikiup standing forlorn in the midst . 
Miss Georgie never wasted precious time on empty ceremony , and she would have gone into that tent unannounced and stated her errand without any compunction whatever . 
Put Peppajee was lying outside , smoking in the shade , with his foot bandaged and disposed comfortably upon a folded blanket . 
She tossed him the bag of candy , and stayed upon her horse . 
Howdy , Peppajee ? How your foot ? Pretty well , mebbyso ? Mebbyso bueno . 
Sun come two time , mebbyso walk all same no snake biteum . 
Peppajee's eyes gloated over the gift as he laid it down beside him . 
Say , Peppajee , Miss Georgie reached up to feel her hatpins and to pat her hair , I wish you'd watch Saunders . 
I can't keep an eye on him . 
Can you ? No can walk far . 
Peppajee looked meaningly at his bandages . 
Well , but you could tell somebody else to watch him . 
I think he do bad thing to the Harts . 
You tell somebody to watch Saunders . 
Come back , mebbyso tellum watchum . 
Miss Georgie drew in her breath for further argument , decided that it was not worth while , and touched up her horse with the whip . 
Good by , she called back , and saw that Peppajee was looking after her with his eyes , while his face was turned impassively to the front . 
You're just about as satisfying to talk to as a stump , she paid tribute to his unassailable calm . 
There's four bits wasted , she sighed , to say nothing of the trouble I had packing that candy to you you ungrateful old devil . 
With which unladylike remark she dismissed him from her mind as a possible ally . 
Gene and Clark did not much care how the thing was done so long as it was done their way . 
At least , that is what they said . 
It was Good Indian who at length settled the matter . 
There were five springs altogether he proposed that each one make himself responsible for a certain spring , and see to it that no water reached the jumpers . 
And I don't care a tinker's dam how you do it , he said . 
Drink it all , if you want to . 
I'll take the biggest that one under the milk house . 
Whereat they jeered at him for wanting to be close to Evadna . 
Well , who has a better right ? he challenged , and then inconsiderately left them before they could think of a sufficiently biting retort . 
So they went to work , each in his own way , agreeing mostly in untiring industry . 
Evadna , upon the top step , sat with her feet tucked up under her as if she feared an instant inundation . 
She , also , was giving utterance to her feminine irritation at the discomfort of her aunt presumably , since she herself was high and dry . 
And it won't do a BIT of good . 
They'll just knock that dam business all to pieces to night She was scolding Grant . 
Swearing , chicken ? Things must be in a great state ! Grant grinned at Miss Georgie , forgetting for the moment his rebuff that morning . 
She did swear , didn't she ? he confirmed wickedly . 
And she's been working overtime , trying to reform me . 
Wanted to pin me down to 'my goodness ! and 'oh , dear ! with all this excitement taking place on the ranch ! I wasn't swearing at all . 
Oh , if I were Aunt Phoebe , I should just shake you , Grant Imsen ! Try it , he invited , his eyes worshiping her in her pretty petulance . 
As Miss Georgie went past them down the steps , her face had the set look of one who is consciously and deliberately cheerful under trying conditions . 
Don't quarrel , children , she advised lightly . 
They're trying now to create a water famine for the jumpers , and they're making their own mother swim for the good of the cause . 
Phoebe held out a plump hand , moist and cold from lifting cool crocks of milk , and laughed at her own predicament . 
The water won't rise any more , Mother Hart , Grant called down to her from the top step , where he was sitting unblushingly beside Evadna . 
I told you six inches would be the limit , and then it would run off in the new ditch . 
They've got to do something , I suppose , or they'd all burst . 
And I don't know but what it's a good thing for 'em to work off their energy digging ditches , even if it don't do a mite of good . 
He looked up at that last sentence , though it is doubtful if he had heard much of what she had been saying . 
It's bound to do good if it does anything , he said . 
with an optimism which was largely the outgrowth of his beatific mood , which in its turn was born of his nearness to Evadna and her gracious manner toward him . 
We promised not to molest them on their claims . 
He picked up a floating ribbon end which was a part of Evadna's belt , and ran it caressingly through his fingers in a way which set Miss Georgie's teeth together . 
He rolled the ribbon up tightly , and then tossed it lightly toward her face . 
ARE they , Goldilocks ? Are they what ? I've told you a dozen times to stop calling me that . 
I had a doll once that I named Goldilocks , and I melted her nose off she was wax and you always remind me of the horrible expression it gave to her face . 
I'd go every day and take her out of the bureau drawer and look at her , and then cry my eyes out . 
Won't you come and sit down , Georgie ? There's room . 
Now , what was the discussion , and how far had we got ? Aunt Phoebe , I don't believe it has raised a bit lately . 
I've been watching that black rock with the crack in it . 
Evadna moved nearer to Good Indian , and pulled her skirts close upon the other side , thereby making a space at least eight inches wide for Miss Georgie's accommodation . 
I can't sit anywhere , said Miss Georgie , looking at her watch . 
By the way , chicken , did you have to walk all the way home ? Evadna looked sidelong at Good Indian , as if a secret had been betrayed . 
No , she said , I didn't . 
I just got to the top of the grade when a squaw came along , and she was leading Huckleberry . 
A gaudy young squaw , all red and purple and yellow . 
She was awfully curious about you , Grant . 
She wanted to know where you were and what you were doing . 
I hope you aren't a flirtatious young man . 
She seemed to know you pretty well , I thought . 
She managed , innocently enough , to waste upon such trivialities many of Miss Georgie's precious minutes . 
But Good Indian , for the time being wholly absorbed by the smiles of his lady , had no eyes for her , and seemed to attach no especial meaning to her visit . 
And if Evadna didn't like it , she could do the other thing . 
It must be lovely to be absolutely selfish when you're pretty enough and young enough to make it stick ! Miss Georgie was , without doubt , in a nasty temper that night . 
CHAPTER XXI SOMEBODY SHOT SAUNDERS The hot days dropped , one by one , into the past like fiery beads upon a velvety black cord . 
Miss Georgie told them silently in the meager little office , and sighed as they slipped from under her white , nervous fingers . 
Half a box of soggy chocolates which the heat had rendered a dismally sticky mass won from them smiles and half intelligible speech . 
Fishing was poor no ketchum . 
Three not even the diversion of the squaws to make her forget the dragging hours . 
On the morning of the fourth day , Miss Georgie woke with the vague sense that something had gone wrong . 
True railroader as she had come to be , she thought first that there had been a wreck , and that she was wanted at the telegraph instrument . 
She was up and partly dressed before the steps and the voices which had broken her sleep had reached her door . 
Pete Hamilton's voice , trembling with excitement , called to her . 
What is it ? What has happened ? she cried from within , beset by a hundred wild conjectures . 
Wire for a doctor , quick as yuh can . 
He ain't dead yet but he's goin' t' die , sure . 
Hurry up and wire Somebody at the store called to him , and he broke off to run lumberingly in answer to the summons . 
Miss Georgie made haste to follow him . 
Saunders was lying upon a blanket on the store platform , and Miss Georgie shuddered as she looked at him . 
He was pasty white , and his eyes looked glassy under his half closed lids . 
He had been shot in the side at the stable , he had gasped out when Pete found him lying in the trail just back of the store . 
Take him in and put him to bed , Miss Georgie commanded , turning away . 
See if he's bleeding yet , and well , I should put a cold compress on the wound , I think . 
I'll send for a doctor but he can't get here till nine o'clock unless you want to stand the expense of a special . 
When she had sent the message she sat drumming upon the table while she waited for an answer . 
G r a n her fingers had spelled when she became conscious of the fact , flushed hotly , and folded her hands tightly together in her lap . 
The doctor will come Hawkinson , I sent for , she announced later to Pete , holding out the telegram . 
I've nearly an hour before I need open the office , she said to herself , looking at her watch . 
She did not say what she meant to do with that hour , but she spent a quarter of it examining the stable and everything in it . 
Especially did she search the loose , sandy soil in its vicinity for tracks . 
They were not easy to follow or they would not have been if she had not felt certain of the general direction which they must take . 
More than once she lost sight of them for several rods , but she always picked them up farther along . 
He's got nerve I'll say that much for him , she observed aloud , and went on . 
This is a case for Indians , she mused , frowning over an open space where all was rock . 
Injun Charlie would hunt tracks all day for a dollar or two only he'd make tracks just to prove himself the real goods . 
She sighed , stood upon her tiptoes , and peered out over the sage to get her bearings , then started on at a hazard . 
She was struggling there with her hands fumbling unavailingly at the back of her bowed head , when she was pounced upon by someone or something through the sage . 
The deuce ! Good Indian brought out the milder expletive with the flat intonation which the unexpected presence of a lady frequently gives to a man's speech . 
Lucky I didn't take a shot at you through the bushes . 
I did , almost , when I saw somebody moving here . 
Is this your favorite place for a morning ramble ? He had one hand still upon her arm , and he was laughing openly at her plight . 
Did what to whom to where , to why ? Good Indian let go her arm , and began helpfully striving with the scraggly scrub and its prongs . 
Say , I'll just about have to scalp you to get you loose . 
Would you mind very much , Squaw talk far off ? He ducked and peered into her face again , and again his face sobered . 
What's the matter ? he asked , in an entirely different tone which Miss Georgie , in spite of her mood , found less satisfying than his banter . 
Saunders OUCH I'd as soon be scalped and done with , as to have you pull out a hair at a time Saunders crawled home with a bullet in his ribs . 
And I thought Saunders ! Good Indian stared down at her , his hands dropped upon her head . 
Miss Georgie reached up , caught him by the wrists , and held him so while she tilted her head that she might look up at him . 
Grant ! she cried softly . 
You couldn't help it he would have shot you down like a dog , just because he was hired to do it , or because of some hold over him . 
Don't think I blame you or that anyone would if they knew the truth . 
I came out to see I just HAD to make sure but you must get away from here . 
You shouldn't have stayed so long Miss Georgie gave a most unexpected sob , and stopped that she might grit her teeth in anger over it . 
You think I shot him . 
As Good Indian said it , the sentence was merely a statement , rather than an accusation or a reproach . 
I suspected he was the man up here with the rifle . 
That day that first day , when you told me about someone shooting at you he came over to the station . 
And he said he had been asleep . 
And there isn't any sage where a man would have to go through it unless he got right out in it , away from the trails . 
I thought then that he was the man You didn't tell me . 
And this time he spoke reproachfully . 
It was after you had left that I saw it . 
And I did go down to the ranch to tell you . 
You could have told me , anyway , Good Indian said constrainedly . 
You didn't want her to know . 
I couldn't , before her . 
And I didn't want to hurt her by Miss Georgie fumbled more with her words than with her hair . 
Well , there's no use arguing about that . 
Good Indian also found that subject a difficult one . 
You say he was shot . 
Did he say He wasn't able to talk when I saw him . 
Pete said Saunders claimed he was shot at the stable , but I know that to be a lie . 
Miss Georgie spoke with unfeeling exactness . 
That was to save himself in case he got well , I suppose . 
I believe the man is going to die , if he hasn't already he had the look I've seen them in wrecks , and I know . 
He won't talk he can't . 
But there'll be an investigation and Baumberger , I suspect , will be just as willing to get you in this way as in any other . 
Because a murder is always awkward to handle . 
I can't see why he should want to murder me . 
Good Indian took her hands away from her hair , and set himself again to the work of freeing her . 
You've been fudging around till you've got about ten million more hairs wound up , he grumbled . 
Wow ! ARE you deliberately torturing me ? she complained , winking with the pain of his good intentions . 
I don't believe he does want to murder you . 
I think that was just Saunders trying to make a dandy good job of it . 
He doesn't like you , anyway witness the way you bawled him out that day you roped ow w ! roped the dog . 
Honest ! I'm trying to go easy , but this infernal bush has sure got a strangle hold on you and your hair is so fluffy it's a deuce of a job . 
You keep wriggling and getting it caught in new places . 
If you could only manage to stand still but I suppose you can't . 
By the way , he remarked casually , after a short silence , save for an occasional squeal from Miss Georgie , speaking of Saunders I didn't shoot him . 
Miss Georgie looked up at him , to the further entanglement of her hair . 
You DIDN'T ? Then who did ? Search ME , he offered figuratively and briefly . 
Miss Georgie spoke with a certain decisiveness , and reaching out a sage soiled hand , took his gun from the holster at his hip . 
He shrank away with a man's instinctive dislike of having anyone make free with his weapons , but it was a single movement , which he controlled instantly . 
Stand still , can't you ? he admonished , and kept at work while she examined the gun with a dexterity and ease of every motion which betrayed her perfect familiarity with firearms . 
She snapped the cylinder into place , sniffed daintily at the end of the barrel , and slipped the gun back into its scabbard . 
Don't think I doubted your word , she said , casting a slanting glance up at him without moving her head . 
Unless you carry a cleaning rod with you , she added , which would hardly be likely . 
If you did pack one with you , you'd be a fool not to throw it away after you had used it . 
No , I'll swear to the gun as it is now . 
Are you ever going to get my hair loose ? I'm due at the office right this minute , I'll bet a molasses cooky . 
She looked at her watch , and groaned . 
I'd have to telegraph myself back to get there on time now , she said . 
Twenty four that fast freight is due in eighteen minutes exactly . 
I've got to be there . 
Take your jackknife and cut what won't come loose . 
Really , I mean it , Mr. Imsen . 
I was under the impression that my name is Grant to friends . 
My name is 'Dennis , if I don't beat that freight , she retorted curtly . 
Take your knife and give me a hair cut quick ! I can do it a different way , and cover up the place . 
Oh , all right but it's a shame to leave a nice bunch of hair like this hanging on a bush . 
Well , I got up early , and someone took a shot at me again . 
This time he clipped my hat brim . 
He took off his hat , and showed her where the brim had a jagged tear half an inch deep . 
I ducked , and made up my mind I'd get him this time , or know the reason why . 
So I rode up the other way and back behind the orchard , and struck the grade below the Point o' Rocks , and so came up here hunting him . 
I kept pretty well out of sight we've done that before Jack and I took sneak yesterday , and came up here at sunrise , but we couldn't find anything . 
I was beginning to think he had given it up . 
So I was just scouting around here when I heard you rustling the bushes over here . 
I was going to shoot , but I changed my mind , and thought I'd land on you and trust to the lessons I got in football and the gun . 
And the rest , he declaimed whimsically , you know . 
Now , duck away down oh , wait a minute . 
Better wear it till you're out of the brush , he advised , if you don't want to get hung up somewhere again . 
She stood up straight , with a long , deep sigh of relief . 
Now , pikeway , he smiled . 
And don't run bareheaded through the bushes again . 
You've still got time to beat that train . 
And about Saunders don't worry . 
I can get to the ranch without being seen , and no one will know I was up here , unless you tell them . 
Oh , I shall of course ! Miss Georgie chose to be very sarcastic . 
I think I shall wire the information to the sheriff . 
Don't come with me and leave tracks all over the country . 
Keep on the lava rock . 
Haven't you got any sense at all ? You made tracks yourself , madam , and you've left a fine lot of incriminating evidence on that bush . 
I'll have to waste an hour picking off the hair , so they won't accuse you of shooting Saunders . 
Good Indian spoke lightly , but they both stopped , nevertheless , and eyed the offending bush anxiously . 
You haven't time , Miss Georgie decided . 
I can easily get around that , if it's put up to me . 
Really , you must ! her eyes implored him . 
Oh , vey ree well . 
We haven't met this morning . 
Good by , Squaw talk far off . 
I'll see you later , perhaps . 
Whereupon Miss Georgie once more gathered her skirts together and ran to the trail , and down that to the station . 
Gene was carrying two pails of milk to the house , and Wally and Jack were watering the horses that had been stabled overnight . 
He was on the point of shouting down to them when his arm was caught tightly from behind . 
He wheeled about and confronted Rachel . 
Clothed all in dull gray she was , like a savage young Quakeress . 
Even the red ribbons were gone from her hair , which was covered by the gray blanket wrapped tightly around her slim body . 
She drew him back from the rim of the bluff . 
You no shout , she murmured gravely . 
No lettum see you here . 
Ketchum you cayuse , go to ranch . 
You no tellum you be this place . 
Good Indian stood still , and looked at her . 
She stood with her arms folded in her blanket , regarding him with a certain yearning steadfastness . 
You all time think why , she said , shrewdly reading his thoughts , I no take shame . 
She flushed , and looked away to the far side of the Snake . 
Bad mans no more try for shoot you , mebbyso . 
I heap Good Indian reached out , and caught her by both shoulders . 
Rachel if you did that , don't tell me about it . 
I don't ask you I don't want to know . 
He spoke rapidly , in the grip of his first impulse to shield her from what she had done . 
But he felt her begin to tremble under his fingers , and he stopped as suddenly as he had begun . 
You no glad ? You think shame for me ? You think I all time very bad ! Tragedy was in her voice , and in her great , dark eyes . 
I want to help you out of this , if I can , and I meant that if you didn't tell me anything about it , why I wouldn't know anything about it . 
Her lips curved into a pathetic little smile . 
I sabe you know all what I do . 
You know for why , me thinkum . 
I do for you no get kill dead . 
All time Man that coughs try for shootum you . 
All time I try for She broke off to stare questioningly up into his face . 
I no tell , you no like for tell , she said quietly . 
All same , you go . 
You ketchum you hoss , you go ranch . 
I think sheriff mans mebbyso come pretty quick . 
No find out you be here . 
I no like you be here this time . 
Good Indian turned , yielding to the pleading of her eyes . 
The heart of him ached dully with the weight of what she had done , and with an uneasy comprehension of her reason for doing it . 
Good Indian read the meaning of that look , and went on , and turned no more toward her until he reached his horse . 
You'd better go on to camp , and stay there , Rachel , he said , as casually as he could . 
No trouble will come to you . 
He hesitated , biting his lip and plucking absently the tangles from the forelock of his horse . 
You sabe grateful ? he asked finally . 
And when she gave a quick little nod , he went on Well , I'm grateful to you . 
You did what a man would do for his friend . 
I'm heap grateful , and I'll not forget it . 
All time I'll be your friend . 
He mounted , and rode away . 
He felt , just then , that it was the kindest thing he could do . 
He looked back once , just as he was turning into the grade road . 
She was standing , her arms folded in her gray blanket , where he had left her . 
His fingers tightened involuntarily the reins , so that Keno stopped and eyed his master inquiringly . 
But there was nothing that he might say to her . 
It was not words that she wanted . 
He swung his heels against Keno's flanks , and rode home . 
Saunders died a few minutes ago . 
Pete says you better notify the coroner and I reckon the sheriff , too . 
Pretty tough to be shot down like that in broad daylight . 
I think I'd rather be shot in daylight than in the dark , Miss Georgie snapped unreasonably because her nerves were all a jangle , and sent the messages as requested . 
Saunders was neither a popular nor a prominent citizen , and there was none to mourn beside him . 
He also , after his first bewilderment had passed , conceived the idea that Saunders had committed suicide , and explained to everyone who would listen just why he believed it . 
Saunders was sickly , for one thing . 
For another , Saunders never seemed to get any good out of living . 
The sheriff and the coroner came at nine . 
All the Hart boys , including Donny , were there before noon , and the group of Indians remained all day wherever the store cast its shadow . 
were stricken deaf and dumb , as is the way of our nation's wards . 
When the sheriff inspected the stable and its vicinity , looking for clews , not a blanket was in sight , though a dozen eyes watched every movement suspiciously . 
So the jury arrived speedily , and without further fussing over evidence , at the verdict of suicide . 
Good Indian drew a long breath , put on his hat , and went over to tell Miss Georgie . 
The Hart boys lingered for a few minutes at the store , and then rode on to the ranch without him , and the Indians stole away over the hill to their camp . 
The coroner and the sheriff accepted Pete's invitation into the back part of the store , refreshed themselves after the ordeal , and caught the next train for Shoshone . 
So closed the incident of Saunders' passing , so far as the law was concerned . 
Well , Miss Georgie summed up the situation , Baumberger hasn't made any sign of taking up the matter . 
I don't believe , now , that he will . 
I wired the news to the papers in Shoshone , so he must know . 
I think perhaps he's glad to get Saunders out of the way for he certainly must have known enough to put Baumberger behind the bars . 
But I don't see , she said , in a puzzled way , how that gun came onto the scene . 
I looked all around the stable this morning , and I could swear there wasn't any gun . 
Well , he did pick it up fortunately , Good Indian returned grimly . 
I'm glad the thing was settled so easily . 
She looked up at him sharply for a moment , opened her lips to ask a question , and then thought better of it . 
Oh , here's your handkerchief , she said quietly , taking it from the bottom of her wastebasket . 
As you say , the thing is settled . 
I'm going to turn you out now . 
The four thirty five is due pretty soon and I have oodles of work . 
He looked at her strangely , and went away , wondering why Miss Georgie hated so to have him in the office lately . 
But Rachel , when he reached the camp , was not visible . 
Peppajee Jim was sitting peacefully in the shade of his wikiup when Grant rode up , and he merely grunted in reply to a question or two . 
Good Indian resolved to be patient . 
I just saw them bury Saunders , Good Indian remarked , by way of opening a conversation . 
All the white men say that , Good Indian persisted , after he had waited a minute . 
Peppajee did not seem to hear . 
Sheriff say that , too . 
Mebbyso sheriff mans heap damfool . 
Good Indian studied him silently . 
Reticence was not a general characteristic of Peppajee it seemed to indicate a thorough understanding of the whole affair . 
He wondered if Rachel had told her uncle the truth . 
Where's Rachel ? he asked suddenly , the words following involuntarily his thought . 
Peppajee sucked hard upon his pipe , took it away from his mouth , and knocked out the ashes upon a pole of the wikiup frame . 
Yo' no speakum Rachel no more , he said gravely . 
Yo' ketchum 'Vadnah no ketchum otha squaw . 
I'm Rachel's friend , Peppajee . 
Good Indian spoke softly so that others might not hear . 
I sabe what Rachel do . 
I don't want to bring trouble . 
Yo' make heap bad heart for Rachel , he said sourly . 
Yo' like for be friend , yo' no come no more , mebbyso . 
Bimeby mebbyso no have bad heart no more . 
Rachel mebbyso thinkum all time yo' Indian . 
Mebbyso thinkum be yo' squaw . 
Yo' all time white mans . 
No speakum Rachel no more , yo' be friend . 
Yo' speakum , me like to kill yo' , mebbyso . 
He spoke calmly , but none the less his words carried conviction of his sincerity . 
Within the wikiup Good Indian heard a smothered sob . 
He listened , heard it again , and looked challengingly at Peppajee . 
But Peppajee gave no sign that he either heard the sound or saw the challenge in Good Indian's eyes . 
I Rachel's friend , he said , speaking distinctly with his face half turned toward the wall of deerskin . 
I want to tell Rachel what the sheriff said . 
I want to thank Rachel , and tell her I'm her friend . 
I don't want to bring trouble . 
He stopped and listened , but there was no sound within . 
Peppajee eyed him comprehendingly , but there was no yielding in his brown , wrinkled face . 
Yo' Rachel's frien' , yo' pikeway , he insisted doggedly . 
Good Indian's fingers closed upon it instinctively , and felt it slowly withdrawn until his hand was pressed against the hide wall . 
Then soft fingers touched his own , fluttered there timidly , and left in his palm a bit of paper , tightly folded . 
Good Indian closed his hand upon it , and stood up . 
All right , I go , he said calmly to Peppajee , and mounted . 
Peppajee looked at him stolidly , and said nothing . 
One thing I would like to know . 
You don't care any more about the men taking Peaceful's ranch . 
Before they came , you watch all the time , you heap care . 
Why you no care any more ? Why you no help ? Peppajee's mouth straightened in a grin of pure irony . 
All time Baumberga try for ketchum ranch , me try for stoppum , he retorted . 
Yo' no b'lievum , Peacefu' no b'lievum . 
Me tellum yo' cloud sign , tellum yo' smoke sign , tellum yo' hear much bad talk for ketchum ranch . 
Yo' all time think for ketchum 'Vadnah squaw . 
No think for stoppum mens . 
Yo' all time let mens come , ketchum ranch . 
Yo' say fightum in co't . 
Cloud sign say me do notting . 
Well , maybe you're right . 
He tightened the reins , and rode away , the tight little wad of paper still hidden in his palm . 
When he was quite out of sight from the camp and jogging leisurely down the hot trail , he unfolded it carefully and looked at it long . 
His face was grave and thoughtful when at last he tore it into tiny bits and gave it to the hot , desert wind . 
It was a pitiful little message , printed laboriously upon a scrap of brown wrapping paper . 
It said simply God by i lov yo . 
CHAPTER XXIII THE MALICE OF A SQUAW Good Indian looked in the hammock , but Evadna was not there . 
And , standing in the doorway with her arm thrown around her Aunt Phoebe's shoulders in a pretty protective manner , he saw her , and his eyes gladdened . 
She did not see him at once . 
She was facing courageously the three inseparables , Hagar , Viney , and Lucy , squatted at the top of the steps , and she was speaking her mind rapidly and angrily . 
Good Indian knew that tone of old , and he grinned . 
Also he stopped by the corner of the house , and listened shamelessly . 
That is not true , she was saying very clearly . 
You're a bad old squaw and you tell lies . 
You ought to be put in jail for talking that way . 
She pressed her aunt's shoulder affectionately . 
Don't you mind a word she says , Aunt Phoebe . 
Ka a ay bueno , yo' ! Her teeth gnashed together upon the words . 
Good Injun him kill Man that coughs . 
All time I seeum creep , creep , through sagebrush . 
All time I seeum hoss wait where much rock grow . 
I no speakum heap lie . 
I go tell sheriff mans Good Indian killum Man that coughs . 
I tellum Why didn't you , then , when the sheriff was in Hartley ? Evadna flung at her angrily . 
Because you know it's a lie . 
Yo' thinkum Good Injun love yo' , mebbyso . 
Hagar's witch grin was at its malevolent widest . 
Her black eyes sparkled with venom . 
Good Injun go all time Squaw talk far off . 
Good Injun ka a ay bueno . 
Love Squaw talk far off . 
Makum yo' heap cry all time . 
She cackled , and leered with vile significance toward the girl in the doorway . 
Don't you listen to her , honey . 
It was Phoebe's turn to reassure . 
Good Indian took a step forward , his face white with rage . 
Viney saw him first , muttered an Indian word of warning , and the three sprang up and backed away from his approach . 
So you've got to call me a murderer ! he cried , advancing threateningly upon Hagar . 
And even that doesn't satisfy you . 
You Evadna rushed up the steps like a crisp little whirlwind , and caught his arm tightly in her two hands . 
Grant ! We don't believe a word of it . 
You couldn't do a thing like that . 
Don't we KNOW ? Don't pay any attention to her . 
It'll hurt her worse than any kind of punishment we could give her . 
Oh , she's a VILE old thing ! Too vile for words ! Aunt Phoebe and I shouldn't belittle ourselves by even listening to her . 
SHE can't do any harm unless we let it bother us what she says . 
I know you never could take a human life , Grant . 
It's foolish even to speak of such a thing . 
It's just her nasty , lying tongue saying what her black old heart wishes could be true . 
She was speaking in a torrent of trepidation lest he break from her and do some violence which they would all regret . 
She did not know what he could do , or would do , but the look of his face frightened her . 
Old Hagar spat viciously at them both , and shrilled vituperative sentences in her own tongue fortunately else the things she said must have brought swift retribution . 
Yo' tellum me shont isham . 
Mebbyso yo' tellum yo' no ketchum Squaw talk far off in sagebrush , all time Saunders go dead ! Me ketchum hair Squaw talk far off hair . 
There was no gainsaying that color and texture . 
She looked full at Evadna . 
Yo' like see , me show whereum walk , she said grimly . 
Good Injun boot make track , Squaw talk far off little shoe make track . 
Me show , yo' thinkum mebbyso me tell lie . 
Stoppum in sagebrush , ketchum hair . 
Me ketchum knife Good Injun knife , mebbyso . 
Revenge mastered cupidity , and she produced that also , and held it up where they could all see . 
I don't believe a word you say , she declared stubbornly . 
I suppose you also stole the hair . 
You can't MAKE me believe a thing like that ! Squaw talk far off run , run heap fas' , get home quick . 
Me seeum , Viney seeum , Lucy seeum . 
Hagar pointed to each as she named her , and waited until they give a confirmatory nod . 
The two squaws gazed steadily at the ground , and she grunted and ignored them afterward , content that they bore witness to her truth in that one particular . 
Squaw talk far off sabe Good Injun killum Man that coughs , mebbyso , she hazarded , watching Good Indian's face cunningly to see if the guess struck close to the truth . 
If you've said all you want to say , you better go , Good Indian told her after a moment of silence while they glared at each other . 
I won't touch you because you're such a devil I couldn't stop short of killing you , once I laid my hands on you . 
She looked up beseechingly into his face , and saw that it was sharp and stern , as it had been that morning when the men had first been discovered in the orchard . 
He raised his free arm , and pointed imperiously to the trail . 
Even Hagar drew back a pace , hardy as was her untamed spirit . 
She looked at Evadna clinging to his arm , her eyes wide and startlingly blue and horrified at all she had heard . 
She laughed then did Hagar and waddled after the others , her whole body seeming to radiate contentment with the evil she had wrought . 
There's nothing on earth can equal the malice of an old squaw , said Phoebe , breaking into the silence which followed . 
I'd hope she don't go around peddling that story not that anyone would believe it , but Good Indian looked at her , and at Evadna . 
He opened his lips for speech , and closed them without saying a word . 
That near he came to telling them the truth about meeting Miss Georgie , and explaining about the hair and the knife and the footprints Hagar had prated about . 
But he thought of Rachel , and knew that he would never tell anyone , not even Evadna . 
The girl loosened his arm , and moved toward her aunt . 
I hate Indians squaws especially , she said positively . 
I hate the way they look at one with their beady eyes , just like snakes . 
I believe that horrid old thing lies awake nights just thinking up nasty , wicked lies to tell about the people she doesn't like . 
I don't think you ought to ride around alone so much , Grant she might murder you . 
It's in her to do it , if she ever got the chance . 
What do you suppose made her ring Georgie Howard in like that ? Phoebe speculated , looking at Grant . 
She must have some grudge against her , too . 
Good Indian spoke unguardedly , because he was still thinking of Rachel and those laboriously printed words which he had scattered afar . 
She's always giving them candy and fruit , whenever they show up at the station . 
Oh h ! Evadna gave the word that peculiar , sliding inflection of hers which meant so much , and regarded him unwinkingly , with her hands clasped behind her . 
Good Indian knew well the meaning of both her tone and her stare , but he only laughed and caught her by the arm . 
Come on over to the hammock , he commanded , with all the arrogance of a lover . 
We're making that old hag altogether too important , it seems to me . 
Come on , Goldilocks we haven't had a real satisfying sort of scrap for several thousand years . 
What's the matter ? he demanded , when he found that her manner did not soften . 
Worrying still about what that old squaw said ? Not in the slightest . 
Evadna's tone was perfectly polite which was a bad sign . 
Good Indian thought he saw the makings of a quarrel in her general attitude , and he thought he might as well get at once to the real root of her resentment . 
What are you thinking about ? Tell me , Goldilocks , he coaxed , pushing his own troubles to the back of his mind . 
I'm sure I never She bit her lips as if she regretted having said so much . 
But this he laughed again . 
That's easy enough , he said lightly . 
I've seen her do it a couple of times . 
I went a couple of times to see Miss Georgie about this land business . 
She's wise to a lot of law used to help her father before he died , it seems . 
And she has some of his books , I discovered . 
I wanted to see if there wasn't some means of kicking these fellows off the ranch without making a lot more trouble for old Peaceful . 
That's what's keeping him , of course . 
I suppose , he added , looking at her frankly , I should have mentioned my going there . 
But to tell you the truth , I didn't think anything much about it . 
It was just business , and when I'm with you , Miss Goldilocks , I like to forget my troubles . 
You , he declared , his eyes glowing upon her , are the antidote . 
And you wouldn't have mo believe you could possibly be jealous ! No , said Evadna , in a more amiable tone . 
But I do think you showed a well , a lack of confidence in me . 
I don't see why I can't help you share your troubles . 
You know I want to . 
I think you should have told me , and let me help . 
I always want to know where you are , it's so lonesome when I don't know . 
And you see She was interrupted at that point , which was not strange . 
The interruption lasted for several minutes , but Evadna was a persistent little person . 
When they came back to mundane matters , she went right on with what she had started out to say . 
You see , that gave old Hagar a chance to accuse you of well , of a MEETING with Georgie . 
Which I don't believe , of course . 
It wasn't just a tangle , like combings , she went on slowly . 
There was a lock as large almost as my finger , that looked as if it had been cut off . 
And it certainly WAS Georgie's hair . 
Georgie's hair , Good Indian smilingly asserted , doesn't interest me a little bit . 
Maybe Hagar scalped Miss Georgie to get it . 
I've got to go up on the hill again right after dinner , Squaw with sun hair , he told her at last . 
I can't rest , somehow , as long as those gentlemen are camping down in the orchard . 
You won't mind , will you ? Which shows that the hour had not been spent in quarreling , at all events . 
Certainly not , Evadna replied calmly . 
Because I'm going with you . 
I couldn't be easy a minute , with old Hagar on the warpath the way she is . 
I'd imagine all sorts of things . 
You don't realize how hot it is , he discouraged . 
I can stand it if you can . 
And I haven't seen Georgie for DAYS . 
She must get horribly lonesome , and it's a perfect SHAME that I haven't been up there lately . 
I'm sure she wouldn't treat ME that way . 
Evadna had put on her angelic expression . 
I WOULD go oftener , she declared virtuously , only you boys always go off without saying anything about it , and I'm silly about riding past that Indian camp alone . 
That squaw the one that caught Huckleberry the other day , you know would hardly let go of the bridle . 
I was scared to DEATH , only I wouldn't let her see . 
I believe now she's in with old Hagar , Grant . 
I suppose I really ought to stay and help the boys with that clover patch that Mother Hart is worrying so about . 
I guess she thinks we're a lazy bunch , all right , when the old man's gone . 
We'll go up this evening , if you like . 
Good Indian was meditating what he called making a sneak . 
He wanted to have a talk with Miss Georgie himself , and he certainly did not want Evadna , of all people , to hear what he had to say . 
For just a minute he wished that they had quarreled again . 
He went down to the stable , started to saddle Keno , and then decided that he would not . 
After all , Hagar's gossip could do no real harm , he thought , and it could not make much difference if Miss Georgie did not hear of it immediately . 
Behind him perspired Baumberger , purple from the heat and the beer with which he had sought to allay the discomfort of that searing sunlight . 
Howdy , Miss Georgie ? he wheezed , as he passed the window . 
Ever see such hot weather in your life ? I never did . 
Miss Georgie glanced at him while her fingers rattled her key , and it struck her that Baumberger had lost a good deal of his oily amiability since she saw him last . 
He looked more flabby and loose lipped than ever , and his leering eyes were streaked plainly with the red veins which told of heavy drinking . 
She looked up immediately , however , and leaned forward so that she could see Peaceful just turning to go down the steps . 
Oh , Mr. Hart ! Will you wait a minute ? she called clearly above the puffing of the engine . 
I've something for you here . 
Soon as I get this train out She saw him stop and turn back to the office , and let it go at that for the present . 
I sure have got my nerve , she observed mentally when the conductor had signaled the engineer and swung up the steps of the smoker , and the wheels were beginning to clank . 
All she had for Peaceful Hart in that office was anxiety over his troubles . 
Just held him up to pry into his private affairs , she put it bluntly to herself . 
I lied to you , Mr. Hart , she confessed , engagingly . 
I haven't a thing for you except a lot of questions , and I simply must ask them or die . 
I'm not just curious , you know . 
Won't you take the seat of honor , please ? The ranch won't run off if you aren't there for a few minutes after you had expected to be . 
I've been waiting to have a little talk with you , and I simply couldn't let the opportunity go by . 
She talked fast , but she was thinking faster , and wondering if this calm , white bearded old man thought her a meddlesome fool . 
There's time enough , and it ain't worth much right now , Peaceful said , sitting down in the beribboned rocker and stroking his beard in his deliberate fashion . 
It seems to be getting the fashion to be anxious , he drawled , and waited placidly for her to speak . 
You just about swear by old Baumberger , don't you ? she began presently , fiddling with her lead pencil and going straight to the heart of what she wanted to say . 
I've kinda learned to fight shy of swearing by anybody , Miss Georgie . 
His mild blue eyes settled attentively upon her flushed face . 
That's some encouragement , anyhow , she sighed . 
Because he's the biggest old blackguard in Idaho and more treacherous than any Indian ever could be if he tried . 
I just thought I'd tell you , in case you didn't know it . 
I'll bet you never got an injunction against those eight men , she hazarded , leaning toward him with her eyes sparkling as the subject absorbed all her thoughts . 
I'll bet anything he kept you fiddling around until those fellows all filed on their claims . 
And now it's got to go till the case is finally settled in court , because they are technically within their rights in making lawful improvements on their claims . 
Grant , she said , and her voice nearly betrayed her when she spoke his name , was sure they faked the gold samples they must have used in filing . 
We both were sure of it . 
So they have all filed , I suppose . 
I know the whole eight have been up Yes , they've all filed twenty acres apiece the best part of the ranch . 
It's part uh the homestead . 
The meadowland is most all included . 
That was a preemption claim . 
Peaceful spoke slowly , and there was a note of discouragement in his voice which it hurt Miss Georgie to hear . 
Well , they've got to prove that those claims of theirs are lawful , you know . 
And if you've got your patent for the homestead you have got a patent , haven't you ? Something in his face made her fling in the question . 
Y es or I thought I had one , he answered dryly . 
It seems now there's a flaw in it , and it's got to go back to Washington and be rectified . 
It ain't legal till that's been done . 
Miss Georgie half rose from her chair , and dropped back despairingly . 
Who found that mistake ? she demanded . 
Baumberger ? Y es , Baumberger . 
He thought we better go over all the papers ourselves , so the other side couldn't spring anything on us unawares , and there was one paper that hadn't been made out right . 
So it had to be fixed , of course . 
Baumberger was real put out about it . 
Oh , of course ! Miss Georgie went to the window to make sure of the gentleman's whereabouts . 
Pig ! she gritted under her breath . 
It's a pity he doesn't drink himself to death . 
She turned and faced Peaceful anxiously . 
You spoke a while ago as if you didn't trust him implicitly , she said . 
I firmly believe he hired those eight men to file on your land . 
I believe he also hired Saunders to watch Grant , for some reason perhaps because Grant has shown his hostility from the first . 
Did you know Saunders or someone has been shooting at Grant from the top of the bluff for well , ever since you left ? The last shot clipped his hat brim . 
Then Saunders was shot or shot himself , according to the inquest and there has been no more rifle practice with Grant for the target . 
N no , I hadn't heard about that . 
Peaceful pulled hard at his beard so that his lips were drawn slightly apart . 
I don't mind telling yuh , he added slowly , that I've got another lawyer working on the case Black . 
He hates Baumberger , and he'd like to git something on him . 
I don't want Baumberger should know anything about it , though . 
He takes it for granted I swallow whole everything he says and does but I don't . 
Not by a long shot . 
Black'll ferret out any crooked work . 
He's a dandy if he catches Baumberger , Miss Georgie averred , gloomily . 
I tried a little detective work on my own account . 
I hadn't any right it was about the cipher messages Saunders used to send and receive so often before your place was jumped . 
I was dead sure it was old Baumberger at the other end , and I well , I struck up a mild sort of flirtation with the operator at Shoshone . 
She smiled deprecatingly at Peaceful . 
There was a news agent and cigar man you know that kind of joint , where they sell paper novels and magazines and tobacco and such getting Saunders' messages . 
Jim Wakely is his name . 
Pretty thin that but you can't prove it wasn't the truth . 
I managed to find out that Baumberger buys cigars and papers of Jim Wakely sometimes not always , though . 
Miss Georgie laughed ruefully , and patted her pompadour absent mindedly . 
So all I got out of that , she finished , was a correspondence I could very well do without . 
I've been trying to quarrel with that operator ever since , but he's so darned easy tempered ! She went and looked out of the window again uneasily . 
He's guzzling beer over there , and from the look of him he's had a good deal more than he needs already , she informed Peaceful . 
He'll burst if he keeps on . 
I suppose I shouldn't keep you any longer he's looking this way pretty often , I notice nothing but the beer keg holds him , I imagine . 
And when he empties that She shrugged her shoulders , and sat down facing Hart . 
Maybe you could bribe Jim Wakely into giving something away , she suggested . 
And Saunders , she added slowly , is eternally silent . 
Well , I hope in mercy you'll be able to catch him napping , Mr. Hart . 
Peaceful rose stiffly , and took up his hat from where he had laid it on the table . 
I ain't as hopeful as I was a week ago , he admitted mildly . 
Put if there's any justice left in the courts , I'll save the old ranch . 
My wife and I worked hard to make it what it is , and my boys call it home . 
We can't save it by anything but law . 
Fightin' would only make a bad matter worse . 
I'm obliged to yuh , Miss Georgie , for taking such an interest and I'll tell Black about Jim Wakely . 
Don't build any hopes on Jim , she warned . 
He probably doesn't know anything except that he sent and received messages he couldn't read any sense into . 
Well there's always a way out , if we can find it . 
Come down and see us some time . 
We still got a house to invite our friends to . 
He smiled drearily at her , gave a little , old fashioned bow , and went over to join Baumberger and to ask Pete Hamilton for the use of his team and buckboard . 
She turned with a startled movement to the office door , because she felt that she was being watched . 
How , Hagar , and Viney , and Lucy , she greeted languidly when she saw the three squaws sidle closer , and reached for a bag of candy for them . 
Instead , she waddled boldly into the office , her eyes searching cunningly every corner of the little room . 
Viney and Lucy remained outside , passively waiting . 
Hagar twitched at something under her blanket , and held out her hand again this time it was not empty . 
Ketchum sagebrush , she announced laconically . 
Mebbyso yo' like for buy ? Miss Georgie stared fixedly at the hand , and said nothing . 
Hagar drew it under her blanket , held it fumbling there , and thrust it forth again . 
Ketchum where ketchum hair , she said , and her wicked old eyes twinkled with malice . 
Mebbyso yo' like for buy ? Miss Georgie still stared , and said nothing . 
Her under lip was caught tightly between her teeth by now , and her eyebrows were pulled close together . 
Ketchum much track , same place , said Hagar grimly . 
Good Injun makeum track all same boot . 
Seeum Good Injun creep , creep in bushes , all time Man that coughs be heap kill . 
Yo' buy hair , buy knife , mebbyso me no tell me seeum Good Injun . 
Me tell , Good Injun go for jail mebbyso killum rope . 
She made a horrible gesture of hanging by the neck . 
Afterward she grinned still more horribly . 
Ketchum plenty mo' dolla , me no tell , mebbyso . 
Miss Georgie felt blindly for her chair , and when she touched it she backed and sank into it rather heavily . 
She looked white and sick , and Hagar eyed her gloatingly . 
Yo' no like for Good Injun be killum rope , she chuckled . 
Yo' all time thinkum heap bueno . 
Yo' buy ? Yo' payum much dolla ? Miss Georgie passed a hand slowly over her eyes . 
She felt numb , and she could not think , and she must think . 
A shuffling sound at the door made her drop her hand and look up , but there was nothing to lighten her oppressive sense of danger to Grant . 
Another squaw had appeared , was all . 
A young squaw , with bright red ribbons braided into her shining black hair , and great , sad eyes brightening the dull copper tint of her face . 
You no be 'fraid , she murmured shyly to Miss Georgie , and stopped where she was just inside the door . 
No trouble come Good Injun . 
Hagar turned , and snarled at her in short , barking words which Miss Georgie could not understand . 
The young squaw folded her arms inside her bright , plaid shawl , and listened with an indifference bordering closely on contempt , one would judge from her masklike face . 
Hagar turned from berating her , and thrust out her chin at Miss Georgie . 
Sun go 'way , mebbyso I come . 
Me ketchum much dolla yo' , me no tellum , mebbyso . 
No ketchum , me tell sheriff mans Good Injun all time killum Man that coughs . 
The young squaw lingered , still gazing shyly at Miss Georgie . 
You no be 'fraid , she repeated softly . 
No trouble come Good Injun . 
She smiled wistfully , and was gone , as silently as moved her shadow before her on the cinders . 
When even that was gone , she turned from the window , and stood for a long minute with her hands pressed tightly over her face . 
When the train was cleared and the wires idle , she went suddenly to the table , laid her fingers purposefully upon the key , and called up her chief . 
It was another two hours' leave of absence she asked for on urgent business . 
She was putting on her hat even while she listened to the message , and she astonished the man at the other end by making no retort whatever . 
He had not gone ten steps from the stable when he met Good Indian face to face . 
Hullo , he growled , stopping short and eying him malevolently with lowered head . 
Good Indian's lips curled silently , and he stepped aside to pursue his way . 
Baumberger swung his huge body toward him . 
Nothin' wrong in that , is there ? HULLO d'yuh hear ? Go to the devil ! said Grant shortly . 
Baumberger leered at him offensively . 
Pretty Polly ! Never learned but one set uh words in his life . 
Can't yuh say anything but 'Go to the devil ! when a man speaks to yuh ? Hey ? I could say a whole lot that you wouldn't be particularly glad to hear . 
Good Indian stopped , and faced him , coldly angry . 
For one thing , he knew that Evadna was waiting on the porch for him , and could see even if she could not hear and Baumberger's attitude was insulting . 
I think , he said meaningly , I wouldn't press the point if I were you . 
Giving me advice , hey ? And who the devil are you ? I wouldn't ask , if I were you . 
But if you really want to know , I'm the fellow you hired Saunders to shoot . 
You should have picked a better man , Mr. Baumberger . 
Saunders couldn't have hit the side of a barn if he'd been locked inside it . 
You ought to have made sure Baumberger glared at him , and then lunged , his eyes like an animal gone mad . 
I'll make a better job , then ! he bellowed . 
I told him to get down next the trail and make a good job of it . 
Epithets unprintable poured in a stream from the loose , evil lips . 
Baumberger was a raving beast of a man . 
He would have torn the other to pieces and reveled in the doing . 
He bellowed forth threats against Good Indian and the Harts , young and old , and vaunted rashly the things he meant to do . 
Heat mad and drink mad he was , and it was as if the dam of his wily amiability had broken and let loose the whole vile reservoir of his pirate mind . 
Another gun spoke then , and Baumberger collapsed in the sand , a quivering heap of gross human flesh . 
Good Indian stood and looked down at him fixedly while the smoke floated away from the muzzle of his own gun . 
He heard Evadna screaming hysterically at the gate , and looked over there inquiringly . 
Phoebe was running toward him , and the boys Wally and Gene and Jack , from the blacksmith shop . 
At the corner of the stable Miss Georgie was sliding from her saddle , her riding whip clenched tightly in her hand as she hurried to him . 
Peaceful stood beside the team , with the lines still in his hand . 
It was Miss Georgie's words which reached him clearly . 
You just HAD to do it , Grant . 
I saw the whole thing . 
D'yuh KILL him ? Gene shouted excitedly , as he ran up to the spot . 
Good Indian glanced once more at the heap before him . 
And I'm liable to kill a few more before I'm through with the deal . 
He swung short around , discovered that Evadna was clutching his arm and crying , and pulled loose from her with a gesture of impatience . 
With the gun still in his hand , he walked quickly down the road in the direction of the garden . 
Come on , boys he's going to clean out the whole bunch ! whooped Gene . 
Oh , choke off ! Wally gritted disgustedly , glancing over his shoulder at them . 
Women make me sick ! he snorted under his breath . 
Then he went to the house , and got the old rifle that had killed Indians and buffalo alike , and went quickly through the grove to the garden . 
He was a methodical man , and he was counted slow , but nevertheless he reached the scene not much behind the others . 
Wally was trying to send his mother to the house with Evadna , and neither would go . 
Miss Georgie was standing near Good Indian , watching Stanley with her lips pressed together . 
It is doubtful if Good Indian realized what the others were doing . 
He had gone straight past the line of stakes to where Stanley was sitting with his back against the lightning stricken apricot tree . 
The three others were upon their own claims , and they , also , seemed unobtrusively ready for whatever might be going to happen . 
Good Indian appraised the situation with a quick glance as he came up , but he did not slacken his pace until he was within ten feet of Stanley . 
You're across the dead line , m' son , said Stanley , with lazy significance . 
And you , too , he added , flickering a glance at Miss Georgie . 
The dead line , said Good Indian coolly , is beyond the Point o' Rocks . 
I'd like to see you on the other side by sundown . 
Stanley looked him over , from the crown of his gray hat to the tips of his riding boots , and laughed when his eyes came back to Good Indian's face . 
But the laugh died out rather suddenly at what he saw there . 
Got the papers for that ? he asked calmly . 
But his jaw had squared . 
I've got something better than papers . 
I shot him just now . 
He's lying back there by the stable . 
Good Indian tilted his head backward , without taking his eyes from Stanley's face and Stanley's right hand , too , perhaps . 
If you don't want the same medicine , I'd advise you to quit . 
Stanley's jaw dropped , but it was surprise which slackened the muscles . 
You'll hang for that , Stanley stated impersonally , without moving . 
Good Indian smiled , but it only made his face more ominous . 
Well , they can't hang a man more than once . 
I'll see this ranch cleaned up while I'm about it . 
I'd just as soon , he added composedly , be hanged for nine men as for one . 
Stanley sat on his haunches , and regarded him unwinkingly for so long that Phoebe's nerves took a panic , and she drew Evadna away from the place . 
The boys edged closer , their hands resting suggestively upon their gun butts . 
Old Peaceful half raised his rifle , and held it so . 
It was like being compelled to watch a fuse hiss and shrivel and go black toward a keg of gun powder . 
How'd you find out Baumberger was back uh this deal ? he asked curiously and without any personal resentment in tone or manner , and raked the match along his thigh . 
Good Indian's shoulders went up a little . 
I knew , and that's sufficient . 
The dead line is down past the Point o' Rocks . 
After sundown this ranch is going to hold the Harts and their friends and NO ONE ELSE . 
He did not easily lose his hold of himself , and this was , with him , a cold business proposition . 
Good Indian turned at the rustling of the skirts immediately behind him , and looked down at her somberly . 
Then he caught sight of something she was carrying in her hand , and he gave a short laugh . 
What are you doing with that thing ? he asked peremptorily . 
Miss Georgie blushed very red , and slid the thing into her pocket . 
Well , every little helps , she retorted , with a miserable attempt at her old breeziness of manner . 
I thought for a minute I'd have to shoot that man Stanley when you turned your back on him . 
Good Indian stopped , looked at her queerly , and went on again without saying a word . 
The three went together , but it was Grant who reached her first . 
Don't cry , Goldilocks , he said tenderly , bending over her . 
There isn't going to be any more Oh ! Don't TOUCH me ! She sprang up and backed from him , horror plain in her wide eyes . 
Make him keep away , Aunt Phoebe ! Good Indian straightened , and stood perfectly still , looking at her in a stunned , incredulous way . 
Chicken , don't be silly ! Miss Georgie's sane tones were like a breath of clean air . 
You've simply gone all to pieces . 
I know what nerves can do to a woman I've had 'em myself . 
Grant isn't going to bite you , and you're not afraid of him . 
You're proud of him , and you know it . 
He's acted the man , chicken ! the man we knew he was , all along . 
So pull yourself together , and let's not have any nonsense . 
He KILLED a man ! I saw him do it . 
And he's going to kill some more . 
Also , she gripped her by the shoulder indignantly . 
'Vadna Ramsey , I'm ashamed of you ! she cried furiously . 
For Heaven's sake , Grant , go on off somewhere and wait till she settles down . 
Don't stand there looking like a stone image didn't you ever see a case of nerves before ? She doesn't know what she's saying if she did , she wouldn't be saying it . 
You go on , and let me handle her alone . 
Men are just a nuisance in a case like this . 
She pushed Evadna before her into the kitchen , waited until Phoebe had followed , and then closed the door gently and decisively upon Grant . 
But not before she had given him a heartening smile just to prove that he must not take Evadna seriously , because she did not . 
We'd better take her to her room , Mrs. Hart , she suggested , and make her lie down for a while . 
You act as if I don't know what I'm doing' and I DO know . 
If I should lie down for a MILLION YEARS , I'd feel just the same about it . 
I couldn't bear him to TOUCH me ! I For Heaven's sake , don't shout it , Miss Georgie interrupted , exasperatedly . 
Do you want him To hear ? I don't care whether he does or not . 
Evadna was turning sullen at the opposition . 
He'll have to know it SOME TIME , won't he ? If you think can forgive a thing like that and let He had to do it . 
Baumberger would have killed HIM . 
He had a perfect right to kill . 
He'd have been a fool and a coward if he hadn't . 
You come and lie down a while . 
I don't care if he did have to do it I couldn't love him afterward . 
And he didn't have to go down there and threaten Stanley and HE'LL DO IT , TOO ! She fell to trembling again . 
He'll DO it at sundown . 
Phoebe and Miss Georgie looked at each other . 
He would , if the men stayed . 
And I was going to marry him ! Evadna shuddered when she said it , and covered her face with her two hands . 
He wasn't sorry afterward you could see he wasn't sorry . 
He was ready to kill more men . 
It's the Indian in him . 
He LIKES to kill people . 
He'll kill those men , and he won't be a bit sorry he did it . 
And he could come to me afterward and expect me Oh , what does he think I AM ? She leaned against the wall , and sobbed . 
I suppose , she wailed , lashing herself with every bitter thought she could conjure , he killed Saunders , too , like old Hagar said . 
He wouldn't tell me where he was that morning . 
I asked him , and he wouldn't tell . 
My Heavens above ! I'll stand for nerves and hysterics , and almost any old thing , but you're going a little bit too far , my lady . 
Do you hear ? And don't you dare let another yip out of you till you can talk sense . 
Good Indian stood upon the porch , and heard every word of that . 
He scratched a match upon the nearest post , and afterward leaned there and smoked , and stared out over the pond and up at the bluff glowing yellow in the sunlight . 
His face was set and expressionless except that it was stoically calm , and there was a glitter deep down in his eyes . 
Evadna was right , to a certain extent the Indian in him held him quiet . 
It occurred to him that someone ought to pick up Baumberger , and put him somewhere , but he did not move . 
The boys and Peaceful must have stayed down in the garden , he thought . 
There was nothing they could gain by staying , he knew , now that Baumberger was out of it . 
Unless they got stubborn and wanted to fight . 
In that case , he supposed he would eventually be planted alongside his father . 
He wished he could keep the boys and old Peaceful out of it , in case there was a fight , but he knew that would be impossible . 
The boys , at least , had been itching for something like this ever since the trouble started . 
Good Indian had , not so long ago , spent hours in avoiding all thought that he might prolong the ecstasy of mere feeling . 
Now he had reversed the desire . 
He was thinking of this thing and of that , simply that he might avoid feeling . 
But in the meantime he need only think . 
The shadow of the grove , with the long fingers of tho poplars to point the way , climbed slowly up the bluff . 
Good Indian smoked another cigarette while he watched it . 
Phoebe came out from the sitting room , ran down the steps , and barred his way . 
Grant ! she said , and there were tears in her eyes , don't do anything rash don't . 
If it's for our sakes and I know it is don't do it . 
We'll have the law on them and make them go . 
But don't YOU go down there . 
You let Thomas handle that part . 
You're like one of my own boys . 
I can't let you go ! He looked down at her commiseratingly . 
I've got to go , Mother Hart . 
I've made my war talk . 
He hesitated , bent his head , and kissed her on the forehead as she stood looking up at him , and went on . 
Grant GRANT ! she cried heartbrokenly after him , and sank down on the porch steps with her face hidden in her arms . 
Miss Georgie was standing beside the gate , looking toward the stable . 
She may not have been waiting for him , but she turned without any show of surprise when he walked up behind her . 
Well , your jumpers seem to have taken the hint , she informed him , with a sort of surface cheerfulness . 
Stanley is down there talking to Mr. Hart now , and the others have gone on . 
They'll all be well over the dead line by sundown . 
Do you really feel that your future happiness depends on getting through this gate ? Well if you must She swung it open , but she stood in the opening . 
Grant , I it's hard to say just what I want to say but you did right . 
You acted the man's part . 
No matter what others may think or say , remember that I think you did right to kill that man . 
Then she stepped back , and contradicted them with a little laugh . 
I will get fired sure for staying over my time , she said . 
I'll wire for the coroner soon as I get to the office . 
This will never come to a trial , Grant . 
He was like a crazy man , and we all saw him shoot first . 
It's a shame yon fellows got cheated out of a scrap , she taunted Jack , who held her horse for her while she settled herself in the saddle . 
But Good Indian seemed to recall something , and went quickly over to her just in time to prevent her starting . 
Was there something in particular you wanted when you came ? he asked , laying a hand on the neck of the bay . 
It just occurred to me that there must have been . 
She leaned so that the others could not hear , and her face was grave enough now . 
She came to me this afternoon , and she had that bunch of hair you cut off that was snarled in the bush . 
She wanted me to buy them the old blackmailer ! She made threats , Grant about Saunders . 
She says you I came right down to tell you , because I was afraid she might make trouble . 
But there was so much more on hand right here she glanced involuntarily at the trampled place in the dust . 
She said she'd come back this evening , 'when the sun goes away . 
She's there now , most likely . 
What shall I tell her ? We can't have that story mouthed all over the country . 
Good Indian twisted a wisp of mane in his fingers , and frowned abstractedly . 
If you'll ride on slowly , he told her , at last straightening the twisted lock , I'll overtake you . 
I think I'd better see that old Jezebel myself . 
Secretly he was rather thankful for further action . 
Then he galloped down the trail , and overtook her at the Point o' Rocks . 
The sun was down , and the sky was a great , glowing mass of color . 
Round the second turn of the grade they came upon Stanley , walking with his hands thrust in his trousers pockets and whistling softly to himself as if he were thinking deeply . 
Perhaps he was glad to be let off so easily . 
Abandoning my claim , he announced , lightly as a man of his prosaic temperament could speak upon such a subject . 
Dern poor placer mining down there , if yuh want to know ! Good Indian scowled at him and rode on , because a woman rode beside him . 
Seven others they passed farther up the hill . 
Those seven gave him scowl for scowl , and did not speak a word that also because a woman rode beside him . 
And the woman understood , and was glad that she was there . 
From the Indian camp , back in the sage inclosed hollow , rose a sound of high keyed wailing . 
The two heard it , and looked at each other questioningly . 
Something's up over there , Good Indian said , answering her look . 
That sounds to me like the squaws howling over a death . 
I'm so late now , a few minutes more won't matter , one way or the other . 
Miss Georgie pulled out her watch , looked at it , and made a little grimace . 
So they turned into the winding trail , and rode into the camp . 
There were confusion , and wailing , and a buzzing of squaws around a certain wikiup . 
Dogs sat upon their haunches , and howled lugubriously until someone in passing kicked them into yelping instead . 
Papooses stood nakedly about , and regarded the uproar solemnly , running to peer into the wikiup and then scamper back to their less hardy fellows . 
Only the bucks stood apart in haughty unconcern , speaking in undertones when they talked at all . 
Good Indian commanded Miss Georgie to remain just outside the camp , and himself rode in to where the bucks were gathered . 
Then he saw Peppajee sitting beside his own wikiup , and went to him instead . 
What's the matter here , Peppajee ? he asked . 
Heap trouble walk down at Hart Ranch . 
Trouble walk here all same , mebbyso ? Peppajee looked at him sourly , but the news was big , and it must be told . 
Squaw callum Hagar make much talk . 
Do much bad , mebbyso . 
Squaw Rachel ketchum bad heart along yo' . 
No sleepum , no eatum all time heap sad . 
Ketchum bad spirit , mebbyso . 
Sun go 'way , ketchum knife , go Hagar wikiup . 
He thrust out his arm as one who stabs . 
He struck his chest with his clenched fist . 
Mebbyso yo' heap bad medicine . 
A squaw just died , he told Miss Georgie curtly , when they rode on . 
But her quick eyes noted a new look in his face . 
Before it had been grave and stern and bitter now it was sorrowful instead . 
There was also a corresponding atmosphere of relief when the verdict of Public Opinion was called justifiable homicide by the coroner and so stamped with official approval . 
All , that is , save Good Indian himself , and perhaps one other . 
Peaceful cleared his white mustache and beard from a few stray drops of coffee and let his mild blue eyes travel slowly around the table , from one tanned young face to another . 
I dunno but what the garden's spoiled already but the small fruit can be saved . 
Clark and I was going up to the Injun camp , spoke up Gene . 
We wanted to see You'll have to do some riding to get there , Good Indian informed them dryly . 
They hit the trail before sunrise this morning . 
Huh ! What were YOU doing up there that time of day ? blurted Wally , eying him sharply . 
His lips smiled over the retort , but his eyes did not . 
I'll lower the water in your milk house now , Mother Hart , he promised lightly , so you won't have to wear rubber boots when you go to skim the milk . 
He gave Evadna a quick , sidelong glance as she came into the room , and pushed back his chair . 
I'll get at it right away , he said cheerfully , picked up his hat , and went out whistling . 
Then he put his head in at the door . 
Say , he called , does anybody know where that long handled shovel is ? Again he eyed Evadna without seeming to see her at all . 
And if you don't run across it there The door slammed , and Jack laughed with his eyes fast shut and three dimples showing . 
Evadna sank listlessly into her chair and regarded him and all her little world with frank disapproval . 
Upon my WORD , I don't see how anybody can laugh , after what has happened on this place , she said dismally , or WHISTLE , after Her lips quivered a little . 
She was a distressed Christmas angel , if ever there was one . 
Want us to go CRYING around because the row's over ? he demanded . 
Think Grant ought to wear crepe , I suppose because he ain't on ice this morning or in jail , which he'd hate a lot worse . 
Now you're shouting ! applauded Gene , also with the intent to be shocking . 
THAT'S the stuff , approved Clark , grinning at Evadna's horrified eyes . 
Grant can run over me sharp shod and I won't say a word , for what he did day before yesterday , declared Jack , opening his eyes and looking straight at Evadna . 
You don't see any tears rolling down MY cheeks , I hope ? Good Injun's the stuff , all right . 
He'd 'a' licked the hull damn Now , Donny , be careful what language you use , Phoebe admonished , and so cut short his high pitched song of praise . 
I don't care I think it's perfectly awful . 
Evadna looked distastefully upon her breakfast . 
I just can't sleep in that room , Aunt Phoebe . 
I tried not to think about it , but it opens right that way . 
Board up the window , then , so you can't see the fatal spot ! His gray eyes twinkled . 
I could DANCE on it myself , he said , just to horrify her which he did . 
Evadna shivered , pressed her wisp of handkerchief against her lips , and left the table hurriedly . 
You boys ought to be ashamed of yourselves ! Phoebe scolded half heartedly for she had lived long in the wild , and had seen much that was raw and primitive . 
You must take into consideration that Vadnie isn't used to such things . 
It's the way she's been raised . 
You can give me as many pieces as you like . 
They're always good medicine , he assured her . 
But he kept his head bent so that his hat quite hid his face from her . 
What about ? he asked , a betraying tenseness in his voice . 
I notice you don't speak you haven't that I've seen , since that day on the porch . 
You don't want to be too hard on her , Grant . 
Remember she isn't used to such things . 
She looks at it different . 
She's never seen the times , as I have , where it's kill or be killed . 
Be patient with her , Grant and don't feel hard . 
I want , she stopped because her voice was beginning to shake I want my biggest boy to be happy . 
Her hand slipped around his neck and pressed his head against her knee . 
Good Indian got up and put his arms around her and held her close . 
He did not say anything at all for a minute , but when he did he spoke very quietly , stroking her hair the while . 
Mother Hart , I stood on the porch and heard what she said in the kitchen . 
She accused me of killing Saunders . 
She said I liked to kill people that I shot at her and laughed at the mark I made on her arm . 
She called me a savage an Indian . 
My mother's mother was the daughter of a chief . 
She was a good woman my mother was a good woman just as good as if she had been white . 
Mother Hart , I'm a white man in everything but half my mother's blood . 
I don't remember her but I respect her memory , and I am not ashamed because she was my mother . 
I've a healthy man's hunger for a beautiful woman , but I've a healthy man's pride as well . 
He patted the smooth cheek of the only woman he had ever known as a mother , and stared at the rough rock wall oozing moisture that drip dripped to the pool below . 
I did think I'd go away for awhile , he said after a minute spent in sober thinking . 
But I never dodged yet , and I never ran . 
I'm going to stay and see the thing through , now . 
I don't know he hesitated and then went on . 
But I don't believe I wes half as deep in love as I thought I was . 
I don't want to say anything against her I've no right , for she's a thousand times better than I am . 
If you keep your eye glued to a microscope long enough , you're sure to lose the sense of proportion . 
She won't speak to me , he continued after a short silence . 
I tried to talk to her yesterday But you must remember , the poor child was hysterical that day when she went on so . 
She doesn't know anything about the realities of life . 
She doesn't mean to be hard . 
Yesterday , said Grant with an odd little smile , she was not hysterical . 
It seems that shooting was the last little weight that tilted the scale against me . 
I don't think she ever cared two whoops for me , to tell you the truth . 
She's been ashamed of my Indian blood all along she said so . 
And oh , it isn't the killing , altogether ! I guess we were both a good deal mistaken in our feelings . 
Well , I hope so , sighed Phoebe , wondering secretly at the decadence of love . 
That was not what she had been taught to call love , and she wondered how a man and a maid could be mistaken about so vital an emotion . 
Oh , I haven't a doubt of that ! Phoebe rose to the defense of her own blood . 
I don't know as it's in her to apologize for anything . 
I never saw such a girl for going right ahead as if her way is the only way ! Bull headed , I'd call her . 
She looked at Good Indian afterward , studying his face with motherly solicitude . 
I believe you're half in love with her right now and don't know it ! she accused suddenly . 
Good Indian laughed softly and bent to his work again . 
ARE you , Grant ? Phoebe laid a moist hand on his shoulder , and felt the muscles sliding smoothly beneath his clothing while he moved a rock . 
I ain't mad because you and Vadnie fell out I kind of looked for it to happen . 
Love that grows like a mushroom lasts about as long only I don't call it love ! You might tell me Tell you what ? But Grant did not look up . 
If I don't know it , I can't tell it . 
He paused in his lifting and rested his hands upon his knees , the fingers dripping water back into the spring . 
He felt that Phoebe was waiting , and he pressed his lips together . 
Must a man be in love with some woman all the time ? He shook his fingers impatiently so that the last drops hurried to the pool . 
She's a good girl , and a brave girl , Phoebe remarked irrelevantly . 
Good Indian felt that she was still waiting , with all the quiet persistence of her sex when on the trail of a romance . 
He reached up and caught the hand upon his shoulder , and laid it against his cheek . 
Squaw talk far off heap smart , he mimicked old Peppajee gravely . 
He stood up as suddenly as he had started his rock lifting a few minutes before , and taking Phoebe by the shoulders , shook her with gentle insistence . 
Put don't make me fall out of one love right into another , he protested whimsically . 
