Tom Grogan by F. Hopkinson Smith I BABCOCK'S DISCOVERY Something worried Babcock . 
One could see that from the impatient gesture with which he turned away from the ferry window on learning he had half an hour to wait . 
He paced the slip with hands deep in his pockets , his head on his chest . 
Every now and then he stopped , snapped open his watch and shut it again quickly , as if to hurry the lagging minutes . 
For the first time in years Tom Grogan , who had always unloaded his boats , had failed him . 
His foreman had just reported that there was not enough material to last the concrete mixers two hours . 
If Grogan did not begin work at once , the divers must come up . 
This was the way Grogan had worked , and he had required no watching . 
He thought of his men standing idle , and of the heavy penalties which would be inflicted by the Government if the winter caught him before the section of wall was complete . 
Earlier in the season Grogan's delay would not have been so serious . 
But one northeaster as yet had struck the work . 
This had carried away some of the upper planking the false work of the coffer dam but this had been repaired in a few hours without delay or serious damage . 
But would this good weather last ? Babcock rose hurriedly , as this anxiety again took possession of him , and leaned over the deck rail , scanning the sky . 
He did not like the drift of the low clouds off to the west southeasters began that way . 
It looked as though the wind might change . 
Some men would not have worried over these possibilities . 
He was that kind of man . 
When the boat touched the shore , he sprang over the chains , and hurried through the ferry slip . 
Keep an eye out , sir , the bridge tender called after him , he had been directing him to Grogan's house , perhaps Tom may be on the road . 
Then it suddenly occurred to Babcock that , so far as he could remember , he had never seen Mr. Thomas Grogan , his stevedore . 
This is not unusual where the work of a contractor lies in scattered places , and he must often depend on strangers in the several localities . 
With this fact clear in his mind , he felt a tinge of disappointment . 
It would have relieved his temper to unload a portion of it upon the offending stevedore . 
Nothing cools a man's wrath so quickly as not knowing the size of the head he intends to hit . 
The delay on his contract might not be so serious . 
Perhaps , after all , Grogan had started work . 
Here , cap'n lend a hand . 
Lively now , lively , before I straighten out the hull gang of ye ! The voice had a ring of unquestioned authority . 
It was not quarrelsome or abusive or bullying only earnest and forceful . 
Ease away on that guy ! Ease away , I tell ye ! it continued , rising in intensity . 
So all gone ! Now , haul out , Cully , and let that other team back up . 
Babcock pushed open the door in the fence and stepped in . 
A loaded scow lay close beside the string piece of the government wharf . 
Alongside its forward hatch was rigged a derrick with a swinging gaff . 
The fall led through a snatch block in the planking of the dock , and operated an iron bucket that was hoisted by a big gray horse driven by a boy . 
A gang of men were filling these buckets , and a number of teams being loaded with their dumped contents . 
The captain of the scow was on the dock , holding the guy . 
Her teeth were snow white , and her light brown hair was neatly parted over a wide forehead . 
Her feet were shod in thick soled shoes laced around her well turned ankles , and her hands were covered by buckskin gauntlets creased with wear . 
From the outside breast pocket of her ulster protruded a time book , from which dangled a pencil fastened to a hempen string . 
Every movement indicated great physical strength , perfect health , and a thorough control of herself and her surroundings . 
The woman gave Babcock a quick glance of interrogation as he entered , and , receiving no answer , forgot him instantly . 
Babcock , with all his curiosity aroused , watched her for a moment , forgetting for the time his own anxieties . 
He liked a skilled hand , and he liked push and grit . 
This woman seemed to possess all three . 
He was amazed at the way in which she handled her men . 
He wished somebody as clearheaded and as capable were unloading his boat . 
He began to wonder who she might be . 
There was no mistaking her nationality . 
Slight as was her accent , her direct descent from the land of the shamrock and the shilla lah was not to be doubted . 
The very tones of her voice seemed saturated with its national spirit a flower for you when you agree with me , and a broken head when you don't . 
But underneath all these outward indications of dominant power and great physical strength he detected in the lines of the mouth and eyes a certain refinement of nature . 
There was , too , a fresh , rosy wholesomeness , a sweet cleanliness , about the woman . 
Babcock moved down beside her . 
What can I do for ye ? Not Grogan the stevedore ? Babcock asked in astonishment . 
Yes , Grogan the stevedore . 
Come ! Make it short , what can I do for ye ? Then this must be my boat . 
I came down Ye're not the boss ? looking him over slowly from his feet up , a good natured smile irradiating her face , her eyes beaming , every tooth glistening . 
There's me hand , I'm glad to see ye . 
I've worked for ye off and on for four years , and niver laid eyes on ye till this minute . 
I've kept the concrete gangs back half a day , but I couldn't help it . 
I've had four horses down with the 'zooty , and two men laid up with dip'thery . 
The Big Gray Cully's drivin' over there the one that's a hoistin' ain't fit to be out of the stables . 
If ye weren't behind in the work , he'd have two blankets on him this minute . 
But I'm here meself now , and I'll have her out to night if I work till daylight . 
Here , cap'n , pull yerself together . 
Then catching sight of the boy turning a handspring behind the horse , she called out again Now , look here , Cully , none of your skylarkin' . 
Unhitch the Big Gray he's as dry as a bone . 
The boy loosened the traces and led the horse to water , and Babcock , after a word with the Captain , and an encouraging smile to Tom , turned away . 
He meant to go to the engineer's office before his return to town , now that his affairs with Grogan were settled . 
As he swung back the door in the board fence , he stumbled over a mere scrap of humanity carrying a dinner pail . 
The mite was peering through the crack and calling to Cully at the horse trough . 
He wore a white tennis cap pulled over his eyes , and a short gray jacket that reached to his waist . 
Under one arm was a wooden crutch . 
His left leg was bent at the knee , and swung clear when he jerked his little body along the ground . 
The other , though unhurt , was thin and bony , the yarn stocking wrinkling over the shrunken calf . 
Beside him stood a big billy goat , harnessed to a two wheeled cart made of a soap box . 
As Babcock stepped aside to let the boy pass he heard Cully shouting in answer to the little cripple's cries . 
Here's Pete Lathers comin' down de yard . 
He'll have his dog on him . 
Patsy laid down the pail and crept through the door again , drawing the crutch after him . 
The yardmaster passed with a bulldog at his heels , and touching his hat to the contractor , turned the corner of the coal shed . 
What is your name ? said Babcock gently . 
A cripple always appealed to him , especially a child . 
My name's Patsy , sir , looking straight up into Babcock's eyes , the goat nibbling at his thin hand . 
And who are you looking for ? I come down with mother's dinner , sir . 
She's here working on the dock . 
I thought ye were niver comin' wid that dinner , darlint , came a woman's voice . 
What kept ye ? Stumpy was tired , was he ? Well , niver mind . 
The woman lifted the little fellow in her arms , pushed back his cap and smoothed his hair with her fingers , her whole face beaming with tenderness . 
Gimme the crutch , darlint , and hold on to me tight , and we'll get under the shed out of the sun till I see what Jennie's sent me . 
At this instant she caught Babcock's eye . 
Oh , it's the boss . 
Sure , I thought ye'd gone back . 
Pull the hat off ye , me boy it's the boss we're workin' for , the man that's buildin' the wall . 
After she had propped him between two big spars , she lifted the cover of the tin pail . 
There , we'll be after puttin' it where Stumpy can't be rubbin' his nose in it setting the pail , as she spoke , on a rough anchor stone . 
Here the goat moved up , rubbing his head in the boy's face , and then reaching around for the pail . 
Yes , he's the youngest of our children , sir . 
He and Jennie that's home , and 'most as tall as meself are all that's left . 
The other two went to heaven when they was little ones . 
Can't the little fellow's leg be straightened ? asked Babcock , in a tone which plainly showed his sympathy for the boy's suffering . 
No , not now so Dr . 
There was a time when it might have been , but I couldn't take him . 
I had him over to Quarantine again two years ago , but it was too late it'd growed fast , they said . 
He's been a hoistin' all the mornin' . 
Then , catching sight of Cully leading the horse back to work , she rose to her feet , all the fire and energy renewed in her face . 
Shake the men up , Cully ! I can't give 'em but half an hour to day . 
And tell the cap'n to pull them macaronis out of the hold , and start two of 'em to trimmin' some of that stone to starboard . 
She was a listin' when we knocked off for dinner . 
Come , lively ! II A BOARD FENCE LOSES A PLANK The work on the sea wall progressed . 
To keep out the leakage , steam pumps were kept going night and day . 
The shanty a temporary structure , good only for the life of the work rested on a set of stringers laid on extra piles driven outside of the working platform . 
This last is filled with perishable property , extra blocks , Manila rope , portable forges , tools , shovels , and barrows . 
The bunks had been omitted , for most of the men boarded in the village . 
In this way increased space for the storage of tools was gained , besides room for a desk containing the government working drawings and specifications , pay rolls , etc . 
When this was propped up with a barrel stave it made a counter from which to pay the men , the paymaster standing inside . 
It was not a prepossessing face , rather pudgy and sleek , with uncertain , drooping mouth , and eyes that always looked over one's head when he talked . 
It was the property of Mr. Peter Lathers , the yardmaster of the depot . 
When you're done payin' off maybe you'll step outside , sir , he said , in a confiding tone . 
I got a friend of mine who wants to know you . 
He's a stevedore , and does the work to the fort . 
He's never done nothin' for you , but I told him next time you come down I'd fetch him over . 
Say , Dan ! beckoning with his head over his shoulder then , turning to Babcock , I make you acquainted , sir , with Mr. Daniel McGaw . 
Two faces now filled the window Lathers's and that of a red headed man in a straw hat . 
I'll attend to you in a moment . 
Glad to see you , Mr. McGaw , said Babcock , rising from the keg , and looking over his bookkeeper's shoulder . 
Around his collar , which had done service for several days , was twisted a red tie decorated with a glass pin . 
His face was spattered with blue powder marks , as if from some quarry explosion . 
A lump of a mustache dyed dark brown concealed his upper lip , making all the more conspicuous the bushy , sandy colored eyebrows that shaded a pair of treacherous eyes . 
His mouth was coarse and filled with teeth half worn off , like those of an old horse . 
When he smiled these opened slowly like a vise . 
Whatever of humor played about this opening lost its life instantly when these jaws clicked together again . 
The hands were big and strong , wrinkled and seamed , their rough backs spotted like a toad's , the wrists covered with long spidery hairs . 
Babcock noticed particularly his low , flat forehead when he removed his hat , and the dry , red hair growing close to the eyebrows . 
I wuz a sp'akin' to me fri'nd Mister Lathers about doin' yer wurruk , began McGaw , resting one foot on a pile of barrow planks , his elbow on his knee . 
I does all the haulin' to the foort . 
I wuz along here las' week , an' see ye wuz put back fer stone . 
If I'd had the job , I'd had her unloaded two days befoore . 
You're dead right , Dan , said Lathers , with an expression of disgust . 
This woman business ain't no good , nohow . 
She ought to be over her tubs . 
She does her work , though , Babcock said , beginning to see the drift of things . 
Oh , I don't be sayin' she don't . 
She's a dacint woman , anough but thim b'ys as is a runnin' her carts is raisin' h ll all the toime . 
That big gray she had a hoistin' is blind of an eye and sprung so forrard he can't hardly stand . 
At this moment the refrain of a song from somewhere near the board fence came wafting through the air , And he wiped up the floor wid McGeechy . 
McGaw turned his head in search of the singer , and not finding him , resumed his position . 
What are your rates per ton ? asked Babcock . 
We're a chargin' forty cints , said McGaw , deferring to Lathers , as if for confirmation . 
Who's 'we' ? The Stevedores' Union . 
But Mrs. Grogan is doing it for thirty , said Babcock , looking straight into McGaw's eyes , and speaking slowly and deliberately . 
Yis , I heared she wuz a cuttin' rates but she can't live at it . 
If I does it , it'll be done roight , an' no throuble . 
I'll think it over , said Babcock quietly , turning on his heel . 
The meanness of the whole affair offended him two big , strong men vilifying a woman with no protector but her two hands . 
McGaw should never lift a shovel for him . 
Again the song floated out this time it seemed nearer , . 
wid McGeechy McGeechy of the Fourth . 
Dan McGaw's giv'n it to you straight , said Lathers , stopping for a last word , his face thrust through the window again . 
He's rigged for this business , and Grogan ain't in it with him . 
If she wants her work done right , she ought to send down something with a mustache . 
Here the song subsided in a prolonged chuckle . 
McGaw turned , and caught sight of a boy's head , with its mop of black hair thrust through a crownless hat , leaning over a water cask . 
Lathers turned , too , and instantly lowered his voice . 
The head ducked out of sight . 
In the flash glance Babcock caught of the face , he recognized the boy Cully , Patsy's friend , and the driver of the Big Gray . 
It was evident to Babcock that Cully at that moment was bubbling over with fun . 
Indeed , this waif of the streets , sometimes called James Finnegan , was seldom known to be otherwise . 
Thet's the wurrst rat in the stables , said McGaw , his face reddening with anger . 
What kin ye do whin ye're a buckin' ag'in' a lot uv divils loike him ? speaking through the window to Babcock . 
Come out uv thet , he called to Cully , or I'll bu'st yer jaw , ye sneakin' rat ! Cully came out , but not in obedience to McGaw or Lathers . 
Indeed , he paid no more attention to either of those distinguished diplomats than if they had been two cement barrels standing on end . 
His face , too , had lost its irradiating smile not a wrinkle or a pucker ruffled its calm surface . 
His clay soiled hat was in his hand a very dirty hand , by the way , with the torn cuff of his shirt hanging loosely over it . 
His trousers bagged everywhere at knees , seat , and waist . 
On his stockingless feet were a pair of sun baked , brick colored shoes . 
His ankles were as dark as mahogany . 
His throat and chest were bare , the skin tanned to leather wherever the sun could work its way through the holes in his garments . 
From out of this combination of dust and rags shone a pair of piercing black eyes , snapping with fun . 
I come up fer de mont's pay , he said coolly to Babcock , the corner of his eye glued to Lathers . 
De ole woman said ye'd hev it ready . 
Mrs. Grogan's ? asked the bookkeeper , shuffling over his envelopes . 
Can you sign the pay roll ? You bet with an eye still out for Lathers . 
Where did you learn to write at school ? asked Babcock , noting the boy's independence with undisguised pleasure . 
Patsy an' me studies nights . 
Pop Mullins teaches us he's de ole woman's farder what she brung out from Ireland . 
He's a livin' up ter de shebang dey're all a livin' dere Jinnie an' de ole woman an' Patsy all 'cept me an' Carl . 
I bunks in wid de Big Gray . 
Say , mister , ye'd oughter git onter Patsy he's de little kid wid de crutch . 
He's a corker , he is reads po'try an' everythin' . 
Then a stone grazed Lathers's ear . 
Lathers sprang through the gate , but the boy was half way through the yard . 
It was this flea like alertness that always saved Mr. Finnegan's scalp . 
Once out of Lathers's reach , Cully bounded up the road like a careering letter X , with arms and legs in air . 
If there was any one thing that delighted the boy's soul , it was , to quote from his own picturesque vocabulary , to set up a job on de ole woman . 
Before he reached the stable he had planned the whole scene , even to the exact intonation of Lathers's voice when he referred to the dearth of mustaches in the Grogan household . 
Lathers meanwhile had been called upon to direct a gang of laborers who were moving an enormous iron buoy float down the cinder covered path to the dock . 
Two of the men walked beside the buoy , steadying it with their hands . 
Lathers was leaning against the board fence of the shop whittling a stick , while the others worked . 
Suddenly there was an angry cry for Lathers , and every man stood still . 
So did the buoy and the moving truck . 
It's against orders , an' I'll call the yard watch , and throw you out if you make any fuss . 
The yard watch ! said Tom , with a look of supreme contempt . 
I can handle any two of 'em , an' ye too , an' ye know it . 
She crowded Lathers so closely his slinking figure hugged the fence . 
By this time the gang had abandoned the buoy , and were standing aghast , watching the fury of the Amazon . 
Now , see here , don't make a muss the commandant'll be down here in a minute . 
Let him come he's the one I want to see . 
If he knew he had a man in his pay that would do as dirty a trick to a woman as ye've done to me , his name would be Dinnis . 
I'll see him meself this very day , and Here Lathers interrupted with an angry gesture . 
Don't ye lift yer arm at me , she blazes out , or I'll break it at the wrist ! Lathers's hand dropped . 
All the color was out of his face , his lip quivering . 
Whoever said I said a word against you , Mrs. Grogan , is a liar . 
It was the last resort of a cowardly nature . 
Stop lyin' to me , Pete Lathers ! If there's anythin' in this world I hate , it's a liar . 
Ye said it , and ye know ye said it . 
Ye want that drunken loafer Dan McGaw to get me work . 
Ye've been at it all summer , an' ye think I haven't watched ye but I have . 
And ye say I don't pay full wages , and have got a lot of boys to do men's work , an' oughter be over me tubs . 
Send down somethin' with a mustache , will I ? There's not a man in the yard that's a match for me , an' ye know it . 
Let one of 'em try that . 
Her uplifted fist , tight clenched , shot past Lathers's ear . 
Then she turned , and stalked out of the yard . 
III SERGEANT DUFFY'S LITTLE GAME The bad weather so long expected finally arrived . 
Of a sudden a cloud the size of a hand had mounted clear of the horizon , and called together its fellows . 
An unseen herald in the east blew a blast , and winds and sea awoke . 
By nine o'clock a gale was blowing . 
The course masonry , fortunately , was above the water line , but the coping was still unset and the rubble backing of much of the wall unfinished . 
Two weeks of constant work were necessary before that part of the structure contained in the first section of the contract would be entirely safe for the coming winter . 
Babcock doubled his gangs , and utilized every hour of low water to the utmost , even when the men stood waist deep . 
It was his only hope for completing the first section that season . 
After that would come the cold , freezing the mortar , and ending everything . 
She directed every boat load herself , and rushed the materials to the shovelers , who stood soaking wet in the driving rain . 
Lathers avoided her so did McGaw . 
Everybody else watched her in admiration . 
She is worth a dozen men . 
Not until the final cargo required for the completion of the wall had been dumped on the platforms did she relax her vigilance . 
Then she shook the water from her oilskins and started for home . 
During all these hours of constant strain there was no outbreak of bravado , no spell of ill humor . 
She made no boasts or promises . 
Every hour she worked increased Babcock's confidence and admiration . 
He began to feel a certain pride in her , and to a certain extent to rely upon her . 
Such capacity , endurance , and loyalty were new in his experience . 
If she owed him anything for her delay on that first cargo , the debt had been amply paid . 
Yet he saw that no such sense of obligation had influenced her . 
To her this extra work had been a duty he was behind hand with the wall , and anxious she would help him out . 
As to the weather , she reveled in it . 
The dash of the spray and the driving rain only added to her enjoyment . 
In times like these Babcock rarely left his work . 
Once let the Old Man of the Sea , as he knew , get his finger in between the cracks of a coffer dam , and he would smash the whole into wreckage . 
I was on my way to see Tom Grogan , said the agent . 
I heard you were here , so I stopped to tell you about the coal . 
There will be a load down in the morning . 
I am Mr. Crane , of Crane Co . 
You know Mrs. Grogan , then ? asked Babcock , after the delay in the delivery of the coal had been explained . 
He had been waiting for some such opportunity to discover more about his stevedore . 
He never discussed personalities with his men . 
Well , I should say so known her for years . 
Best woman on top of Staten Island . 
She works like a machine . 
How long has she been a widow ? Well , come to think of it , I don't know that she is a widow . 
There's some mystery about the old man , but I never knew what . 
But that don't count she's good enough as she is , and a hustler , too . 
Crane was something of a hustler himself one of those busy Americans who opens his daily life with an office key and closes it with a letter for the late mail . 
He was a restless , wiry , black eyed little man , never still for a moment , and perpetually in chase of another eluding dollar , which half the time he caught . 
Then , laying his hand on Babcock's arm And she's square as a brick , too . 
Sometimes when a chunker captain , waiting to unload , shoves a few tons aboard a sneak boat at night , Tom will spot him every time . 
They try to fool her into indorsing their bills of lading in full , but it don't work for a cent . 
You call her Tom Grogan ? Babcock asked , with a certain tone in his voice . 
He resented , somehow , Crane's familiarity . 
Everybody calls her Tom Grogan . 
Call her anything else , and she don't answer . 
She seems to glory in it , and after you know her a while you don't want to call her anything else yourself . 
It comes kind of natural like your calling a man 'colonel' or 'judge . 
Babcock could not but admit that Crane might be right . 
We've got the year's contract for coal at the fort , continued Crane . 
The quarter master sergeant who inspects it Sergeant Duffy has a friend named McGaw who wants to do the unloading into the government bins . 
will be in a hole , and lose money on the contract . 
I hate to go back on Tom Grogan , but there's no help for it . 
The ten cents a ton I'd save if she hauls the coal instead of McGaw would be eaten up in Duffy's short weights and rejections . 
I don't know what Duffy will get out of it perhaps he gets a few dollars out of the hauling . 
The coal is shipped , by the way , and ought to be here any minute . 
Wait I'll go with you , said Babcock , handing him an order for more coal . 
She hasn't sent down the tally sheet for my last scow . 
There was not the slightest necessity , of course , for Babcock to go to Grogan's house for this document . 
As they walked on , Crane talked of everything except what was uppermost in Babcock's mind . 
Babcock tried to lead the conversation back to Tom , but Crane's thoughts were on something else . 
The clearing wind had hauled to the northwest . 
The sky was heaped with soft clouds floating in the blue . 
On either side of the vast basin lay two grim , silent forts , crouched on grassy slopes like great beasts with claws concealed . 
Near by , big lazy steamers , sullen and dull , rested motionless at Quarantine , awaiting inspection while beyond , white winged graceful yachts curved tufts of foam from their bows . 
Grogan's house and stables lay just over the brow of this hill , in a little hollow . 
Everything about the place was scrupulously neat and clean . 
The stables there were two stood on the lower end of the lot . 
They looked new , or were newly painted in a dark red , and appeared to have accommodations for a number of horses . 
The stable yard lay below the house . 
In its open square were a pump and a horse trough , at which two horses were drinking . 
One , the Big Gray , had his collar off , showing where the sweat had discolored the skin , the traces crossed loosely over his back . 
He was drinking eagerly , and had evidently just come in from work . 
About , under the sheds , were dirt carts tilted forward on their shafts , and dust begrimed harnesses hanging on wooden pegs . 
A strapping young fellow in a red shirt came out of the stable door leading two other horses to the trough . 
Babcock looked about him in surprise at the extent of the establishment . 
He had supposed that his stevedore had a small outfit and needed all the work she could get . 
If , as McGaw had said , only boys did Grogan's work , they at least did it well . 
Crane mounted the porch first and knocked . 
No , Mr. Crane , said a young girl , opening the door , she's not at home . 
I'm expecting her every minute . 
Mother went to work early this morning . 
She'll be sorry to miss you , sir . 
She ought to be home now , for she's been up 'most all night at the fort . 
She's just sent Carl up for two more horses . 
Won't you come in and wait ? No I'll keep on to the fort , answered Crane . 
I may meet her on the road . 
May I come in ? Babcock asked , explaining his business in a few words . 
Oh , yes , sir . 
Mother won't be long now . 
You've not forgotten me , Mr. Babcock ? I'm her daughter Jennie . 
I was to your office once . 
Gran'pop , this is the gentleman mother works for . 
An old man rose with some difficulty from an armchair , and bowed in a kindly , deferential way . 
He had been reading near the window . 
He was in his shirt sleeves , his collar open at the throat . 
His legs shook as if he were weak from some recent illness . 
About the eyes was a certain kindliness that did not escape Babcock's quick glance they were clear and honest , and looked straight into his the kind he liked . 
Had it not been for his dress , he might have passed for an English curate on half pay . 
Me name's Richard , sor Richard Mullins , said the old man . 
She won't be long gone now . 
She promised me she'd be home for dinner . 
He placed a chair for Babcock , and remained standing . 
I will wait until she returns , said Babcock . 
Your daughter must have had great experience . 
I have never seen any one man handle work better , he continued , extending his hand . 
Then , noticing that Mullins was still standing , Don't let me take your seat . 
Mullins hesitated , glanced at Jennie , and , moving another chair from the window , drew it nearer , and settled slowly beside Babcock . 
The room was as clean as bare arms and scrubbing brushes could make it . 
Near the fireplace was a cast iron stove , and opposite this stood a parlor organ , its top littered with photographs . 
A few chromos hung on the walls . 
There were also a big plush sofa and two haircloth rocking chairs , of walnut , covered with cotton tidies . 
Opening from this room was the kitchen , resplendent in bright pans and a shining copper wash boiler . 
The girl passed constantly in and out the open door , spreading the cloth and bringing dishes for the table . 
She was fresh and sweet , strong and healthy , with a certain grace of manner about her that pleased Babcock instantly . 
This pleased him most of all . 
You live with your daughter , Mrs. Grogan ? Babcock asked in a friendly way , turning to the old man . 
Whin Tom got sick , she sint fer me to come over an' hilp her . 
I feeds the horses whin Oi'm able , an' looks after the garden , but Oi'm not much good . 
Is Mr. Thomas Grogan living ? asked Babcock cautiously , and with a certain tone of respect , hoping to get closer to the facts , and yet not to seem intrusive . 
Oh , yis , sor an' moight be dead fer all the good he does . 
He's in New Yorruk some'er's , on a farm lowering his voice to a whisper and looking anxiously toward Jennie belongin' to the State , I think , sor . 
He's hurted pretty bad , an' p'haps he's a leetle off I dunno . 
Mary has niver tould me . 
Before Babcock could pursue the inquiry further there was a firm tread on the porch steps , and the old man rose from the chair , his face brightening . 
Here she is , Gran'pop , said Jennie , laying down her dish and springing to the door . 
Patsy was perched on her shoulder , his little crutch fast in one hand , the other tightly wound about her neck . 
Let go , darlint ye're a chokin' the wind out of me . 
Oh , it's ye a waitin' , Mr. Babcock me man Carl thought ye'd gone . 
Mr. Crane I met outside told me you'd been here . 
Jennie'll get the tally sheet of the last load for ye . 
I've been to the fort since daylight , and pretty much all night , to tell ye God's truth . 
Oh , Gran'pop , but I smashed 'em ! she exclaimed as she gently removed Patsy's arm and laid him in the old man's lap . 
She had picked the little cripple up at the garden gate , where he always waited for her . 
That's the last job that sneakin' Duffy and Dan McGaw'll ever put up on me . 
Ye know I always had the hauling of the coal at the fort , an' I want to hold on to it , for it comes every year . 
I've been a watchin' for this coal for a month . 
Every October there's a new contractor , and this time it was me friend Mr. Crane I've worked for before . 
Think of that ! I tell ye , Mr. Babcock , they're divils . 
Well ! she continued , I jumps into me bonnet yisterday , and over I goes to the fort an' I up an' says to Duffy , 'I can't wait for the quartermaster . 
When's that coal a comin' ? An' he says , 'In a couple of weeks . 
An' Duffy turned white as a load of lime , and says , 'Don't do it , for God's sake ! It'll cost me m' place . 
Then I started for home on the run , to get me derricks and stuff . 
I got home , hooked up by twelve o'clock last night , an' before daylight I had me rig up an' the fall set and the buckets over her hatches . 
She repeated this in a mocking tone , swinging her big shoulders exactly as her rival would have done . 
An' just now I met Mr. Crane walkin' down , lookin' like he had lost a horse . 
An' I says , 'Brace up , Mr. Crane , there's a hole , but ye ain't in it , an' the sergeant is . 
Although she had been up half the night , she was as sweet and fresh and rosy as a child . 
Her vitality , her strength , her indomitable energy , impressed him as no woman's had ever done before . 
When she had finished her story she suddenly caught Patsy out of her father's arms and dropped with him into a chair , all the mother hunger in her still unsatisfied . 
She smothered him with kisses and hugged him to her breast , holding his pinched face against her ruddy cheek . 
Then she smoothed his forehead with her well shaped hand , and rocked him back and forth . 
The little fellow sat up in her lap and laughed as he patted her breast joyously with his thin hand . 
Cully could do it , he shouted in high glee Cully can do anything . 
Babcock , apparently , made no more difference to her than if he had been an extra chair . 
The spirit that enveloped her belonged rather to that of some royal dame of heroic times , than to that of a working woman of to day . 
The room somehow became her castle , the rough stablemen her knights . 
On his return to his work she walked back with him part of the way . 
She did not even answer his question . 
He waited a moment , and , realizing his mistake , turned the conversation in another direction . 
No man ever opens his head , nor dar'sn't . 
When they see me a comin' they stops talkin' , if it's what they wouldn't want their daughters to hear an' there ain't no dirty back talk , neither . 
An' I make me own men civil , too , with a dacint tongue in their heads . 
I had a young strip of a lad once who would be a swearin' round the stables . 
I told him to mend his manners or I'd wash his mouth out , an' that I wouldn't have nobody hit me horses on the head . 
so when he hit the Big Gray ag'in , I hauled off and give him a crack that laid him out . 
I was scared solid for two hours , though they never knew it . 
A meeting was accordingly called by the executive committee of the Knights , and a resolution passed condemning certain persons in the village of Rockville as traitors to the cause of the workingman . 
Only one copy of this edict was issued and mailed . 
This found its way into Tom Grogan's letter box . 
Five minutes after she had broken the seal , her men discovered the document pasted upside down on her stable door . 
McGaw heard of her action that night , and started another line of attack . 
They discussed several plans by which she could be compelled either to restore rates for unloading , or be forced out of the business altogether . 
She was making trouble , they urged , with her low wages and her unloading rates . 
Perhaps his Riverence c'u'd straighten her out . 
Father McCluskey's interview with Tom took place in the priest's room one morning after early mass . 
What Tom told the priest no one ever knew such conferences are part of the regime of the church , and go no farther . 
Once outside , she put her arm around Jennie , who was waiting , and the two strolled slowly across the lots to her house . 
When the priest came out , his own eyes were tinged with moisture . 
McGaw and his friends were not discouraged . 
They were only determined upon some more definite stroke . 
It was therefore ordered that a committee be appointed to waylay her men going to work , and inform them of their duty to their fellow laborers . 
It was plainly the driver's duty , Quigg urged , to give up his job until Tom Grogan could be compelled to hire him back at advanced wages . 
During this enforced idleness the Union would pay the driver fifty cents a day . 
Here Quigg pounded his chest , clenched his fists , and said solemnly , If capital once downs the lab'rin' man , we'll all be slaves . 
He had felt that he could ship again at anytime , the water was so near . 
As the months went by , however , he , too , gradually fell under the spell of Tom's influence . 
She reminded him of the great Norse women he had read about in his boyhood . 
Nilsson knew Quigg by sight , for he had seen him walking home with Jennie from church . 
His knowledge of English was slight , but it was enough to enable him to comprehend Quigg's purpose as he talked beside him on the cart . 
This ended the question for Nilsson , and it very nearly ended the delegate . 
Jumping from the cart , Carl picked up the shovel and sprang toward Quigg , who dodged out of his way , and then took to his heels . 
Quigg's failure to coax away one of Tom's men ended active operations against Tom , so far as the Union was concerned . 
His trouble with Tom was an individual matter , and a little patience on McGaw's part was advised . 
The season's work was over , and nothing of importance could be done until the opening of the spring business . 
If Tom's men struck now , she would be glad to get rid of them . 
It would , therefore , be wiser to wait until she could not do without them , when they might all be forced out in a body . 
In the interim McGaw should direct his efforts to harassing his enemy . 
No one could tell what might happen in the coming months . 
At the moment the funds of the Union were too low for aggressive measures . 
Were McGaw , however , to make a contribution of two hundred dollars to the bank account in order to meet possible emergencies , something might be done . 
It was thereupon subsequently resolved that before resorting to harsher measures the Union should do all in its power toward winning over the enemy . 
Brother Knight Dennis Quigg was thereupon deputed to call upon Mrs. Grogan and invite her into the Union . 
, another walking delegate , brother Knight Crimmins by name , was selected to carry out the gracious action of the committee . 
The seat of these outside trousers showed more wear than his hands . 
Immediately upon his appointment , Crimmins went to McGaw's house to talk over the line of attack . 
Brother Knight Crimmins waved his hand to the speaker . 
Just leave'er to me , Dan , he said , and started for Tom's house . 
Crimmins was delighted with his mission . 
He felt sure of bringing back her application within an hour . 
Nothing ever pleased him so much as to work a poor woman into an agony of fright with threats of the Union . 
Wives and daughters had often followed him out into the street , begging him to let the men alone for another week until they could pay the rent . 
Sometimes , when he relented , the more grateful would bless him for his magnanimity . 
This increased his self respect . 
Tom met him at the door . 
She had been sitting up with a sick child of Dick Todd , foreman at the brewery , and had just come home . 
Hardly a week passed without some one in distress sending for her . 
She had never seen Crimmins before , and thought he had come to mend the roof . 
His first words , however , betrayed him The Knights sent me up to have a word wid ye . 
Tom made a movement as if to shut the door in his face then she paused for an instant , and said curtly , Come inside . 
Crimmins crushed his slouch hat in his hand , and slunk into a chair by the window . 
I see ye like flowers , Mrs. Grogan , he began , in his gentlest voice . 
Them geraniums is the finest I iver see peering under the leaves of the plants . 
Guess it's 'cause ye water 'em so much . 
Crimmins fidgeted on his chair a little , and tried another tack . 
I s'pose ye ain't doin' much just now , weather's so bad . 
The road's awful goin' down to the fort . 
Tom's hands were in the side pockets of her ulster . 
Her face was aglow with her brisk walk from the tenements . 
She never took her eyes from his face , and never moved a muscle of her body . 
She was slowly revolving in her mind whether any information she could get out of him would be worth the waiting for . 
Crimmins relapsed into silence , and began patting the floor with his foot . 
The prolonged stillness was becoming uncomfortable . 
I was tellin' ye about the meetin' we had to the Union last night . 
We was goin' over the list of members , an' we didn't find yer name . 
The board thought maybe ye'd like to come in wid us . 
The dues is only two dollars a month . 
We're a regulatin' the prices for next year , stevedorin' an' haulin' , an' the rates'll be sent out next week . 
The stopper was now out of the oil bottle . 
How many members have ye got ? she asked quietly . 
Hundred an' seventy three in our branch of the Knights . 
All pay two dollars a month ? That's about the size of it , said Crimmins . 
What do we git when we jine ? Well , we all pull together that's one thing . 
One man's strike's every man's strike . 
The capitalists been tryin' to down us , an' the laborin' man's got to stand together . 
She had moved a step closer . 
Crimmins looked slyly up into her eyes . 
Until this moment he had been addressing his remarks to the brass ornament on the extreme top of the cast iron stove . 
Tom's expression of face did not reassure him in fact , the steady gaze of her clear gray eye was as uncomfortable as the focused light of a sun lens . 
Well we help each other , he blurted out . 
Do you do any helpin' ? Yis stiffening a little . 
I'm the walkin' delegate of our branch . 
McGaw's suggested stopper was being loosened on the vinegar . 
Her collar began to feel small . 
An' ye'll help me , will ye ? Come out here on the front porch , Mr. Crimmins opening the door with a jerk . 
Do ye see that stable over there ! Well , it covers seven horses an' the shed has six carts with all the harness . 
Back of it perhaps if ye stand on yer toes even a little feller like you can see the top of another shed . 
That one has me derricks an' tools . 
Crimmins tried to interrupt long enough to free McGaw's red pepper , but her words poured out in a torrent . 
When ye said ye were a walkin' delegate ye spoke God's truth . 
If I had me way , ye would walk , but it would be on yer uppers , wid yer bare feet to the road . 
Crimmins again attempted to speak , but she raised her arm threateningly Now , if it's walkin' ye are , ye can begin right away . 
Let me see ye earn yer wages down that garden an' into the road . 
Cully heard his cries , and ran through the yard to meet him , his anger rising at every step . 
To lay hands on Patsy was , to Cully , the unpardonable sin . 
Lawless , rough , often cruel , and sometimes vindictive as Cully was to others , a word from Patsy humbled and softened him . 
His big , broad chest , stout , straight legs , strong arms and hands , were his admiration and constant pride . 
Cully was his champion and his ideal . 
The waif's recklessness and audacity were to him only evidences of so much brains and energy . 
This love between the lads grew stronger after Tom had sent to Dublin for her old father , that she might have a man about the house . 
Then a new blessing came , not only into the lives of both the lads , but into the whole household as well . 
Mullins , in his later years , had been a dependent about Trinity College , and constant association with books and students had given him a taste for knowledge denied his daughter . 
Tom had left home when a girl . 
At these times it was delightful to watch the expression of pride and happiness that would come over Tom's face as she listened to her father's talk . 
But ye have a great head , Gran'pop , she would say . 
Cully , ye blatherin' idiot , why don't ye brace up an' git some knowledge in yer head ? Sure , Gran'pop , Father McCluskey ain't in it wid ye a minute . 
Ye could down the whole gang of 'em . 
And the old man would smile faintly and say he had heard the young gentlemen at the college recite the stories so many times he could never forget them . 
There , as he afterwards expressed it , he mopped up the floor with one after another of the ringleaders , beginning with young Billy McGaw , Dan's eldest son and Cully's senior . 
Tom was dumfounded at the attack on Patsy . 
This was a blow upon which she had not counted . 
She felt sure that their fathers and mothers had encouraged them in it . 
In emergencies like this it was never to the old father that she turned . 
He was too feeble , too much a thing of the past . 
It was on Jennie , really more her companion than her daughter , that she depended for counsel and sympathy at these times . 
Tom did not underestimate the gravity of the situation . 
But this stab from out the dark was a danger to which she was unused . 
A few more horses and carts and another barn or two , and she herself would become a hated capitalist . 
She knew what power it wielded . 
Tom had helped them unload these things from the brick sloop that brought them . 
Then the widow , with her children about her , had been put aboard another sloop that was going back to her old home . 
Tom remembered , as if it were yesterday , the heap of furniture and little pile of kitchen things sold under the red flag outside the store near the post office . 
The rope that held the bucket had been burned by acid , Dr . 
Some grudge of the Union , she had always felt , was paid off then . 
She knew what the present trouble meant , now that it was started , and she knew in what it might end . 
But her courage never wavered . 
When they reentered the sitting room , an hour later , Jennie's lips were quivering . 
Tom's mouth was firmly set . 
Her mind was made up . 
She would fight it out to the bitter end . 
During all these years he had ruled over Tom . 
Brave spirits have fainted at the sight of spiders , others have turned pale at lizards , and some have shivered when cats crossed their paths . 
The only thing Tom feared on any number of legs , from centipedes to men , was Stumpy . 
The basest of ingratitude actuated the goat . 
In spite of her fear of him , Tom never dispossessed Stumpy . 
That her Patsy loved him insured him his place for life . 
So Stumpy roamed through yard , kitchen , and stable , stalking over bleaching sheets , burglarizing the garden gate , and grazing wherever he chose . 
The goat inspired no fear in anybody else . 
This afternoon Jennie had missed her blue checked apron . 
It had been drying on the line outside the kitchen door five minutes before . 
There was no one at home but herself , and she had seen nobody pass the door . 
Perhaps the apron had blown over into the stable yard . 
If it had , Carl would be sure to have seen it . 
She knew Carl had come home she had been watching for him through the window . 
Then she ran in for her shawl . 
Carl was rubbing down the Big Gray . 
He had been hauling ice all the morning for the brewery . 
The Gray was under the cart shed , a flood of winter sunlight silvering his shaggy mane and restless ears . 
Suddenly Carl raised his head he had caught a glimpse of a flying apron whipping round the stable door . 
It always gave him a lump in his throat , and some little creepings down his back when he saw it . 
Then he laid down the currycomb . 
The next instant there came a sound as of a barrel head knocked in by a mixing shovel , and Stumpy flew through the door , followed by Carl on the run . 
The familiar bit of calico was Jennie's lost apron . 
One half was inside the goat , the other half was in the hand of the Swede . 
Carl hesitated for a moment , looked cautiously about the yard , and walked slowly toward the house , his eyes on the fragments . 
He never went to the house except when he was invited , either to hear Pop read or to take his dinner with the other men . 
At this instant Jennie came running out , the shawl about her head . 
Oh , Carl , did you find my apron ? It blew away , and I thought it might have gone into the yard . 
Yas , mees an' da goat see it too luke ! extending the tattered fragments , anger and sorrow struggling for the mastery in his face . 
Well , I never ! Carl , it was a bran' new one . 
Now just see , all the strings torn off and the top gone ! I'm just going to give Stumpy a good beating . 
Besides , she must get some wood . 
Carl instantly forgot the goat . 
He had forgotten everything , indeed , except the trim little body who stood before him looking into his eyes . 
He glowed all over with inward warmth and delight . 
Nobody had ever cared before whether he was tired . 
All this flashed through his mind as he returned Jennie's look . 
No , no ! I not tire I brang da wood . 
There is no telling how long the Big Gray would have waited if Cully had not come home to dinner , bringing another horse with Patsy perched on his back . 
The brewery was only a short distance , and Tom always gave her men a hot meal at the house whenever it was possible . 
, the Big Gray without his dinner ! Hully gee ! Look at de bloke a jollying Jinnie , an' de Blowhard a starvin' . 
Say , Patsy , lifting him down , hold de line till I git de Big Gray a bite . 
Git on ter Carl , will ye ! I'm a goin' ter tell de boss , with a threatening air , weighing each word jes soon as she gits back . 
Ef I don't I'm a chump . 
At sight of the boys , Jennie darted into the house , and Carl started for the stable , his head in the clouds , his feet on air . 
No I feed da horse , Cully , jerking at his halter to get him away from Cully . 
A hell ov 'er lot ye will ! I'll feed him meself . 
He's been home an hour now , an' he ain't half rubbed down . 
Carl made a grab for Cully , who dodged and ran under the cart . 
Then a lump of ice whizzed past Carl's ear . 
Here , stop that ! said Tom , entering the gate . 
She had been in the city all the morning to look after her poor Tom , Pop said . 
Don't ye be throwing things round here , or I'll land on top of ye . 
I go brang Mees Jan's apron da goat eat it oop . 
Stumpy eat da apron I brang back da half ta Mees Jan . 
An' it took ye all the mornin' to give it to her ? said Tom thoughtfully , looking Carl straight in the eye , a new vista opening before her . 
That night when the circle gathered about the lamp to hear Pop read , Carl was missing . 
Tom had not sent for him . 
That worthy Knight met him at the door . 
He had been waiting for him . 
Young Billy McGaw also saw Crimmins enter the gate , and promptly hid himself under the broken down steps . 
He hoped to overhear what was going on when the two went out again . 
Young Billy's inordinate curiosity was quite natural . 
He not only hated Cully , but the whole Grogan household , for the pounding he had received at his hands , so he was anxious to get even in some way . 
An' she'll come in wid us , will she ? She will , will she ? She'll come in nothin' . 
Fired ye ? exclaimed McGaw incredulously . 
I'm givin' it to ye straight , Dan an' she pulled a gun on me , too , telling the lie with perfect composure . 
That woman's no slouch , or I don't know 'em . 
One thing ye can bet yer bottom dollar on all h can't scare her . 
We've got to try some other way . 
It was the peculiarly fertile quality of Crimmins's imagination that made him so valuable to some of his friends . 
When the conspirators reached the door , neither Crimmins nor his father was in a talkative mood , and Billy heard nothing . 
Then he turned hurriedly to the house , cursed his wife because he could not find his big fur cap , and started across to the village . 
Billy followed , keeping a safe distance behind . 
Tom after Patsy's sad experience forbade him the streets , and never allowed him out of her sight unless Cully or her father were with him . 
She knew a storm was gathering , and she was watching the clouds and waiting for the first patter of rain . 
When it came she intended that every one of her people should be under cover . 
She had sent for Carl and her two stablemen , and told them that if they were dissatisfied in any way she wanted to know it at once . 
She said that she saw trouble brewing , and knew that her men would feel it first . 
They must look out for themselves coming home late at night . 
At the brewery strike , two years before , hardly a day passed that some of the non union men were not beaten into insensibility . 
That night Carl came back again to the porch door , and in his quiet , earnest way said We have t'ink 'bout da Union . 
Da men not go not laik da union man . 
We not 'fraid tapping his hip pocket , where , sailor like , he always carried his knife sheathed in a leather case . 
Tom's eyes kindled as she looked into his manly face . 
She loved pluck and grit . 
She knew the color of the blood running in this young fellow's veins . 
One morning an important looking envelope lay in her letter box . 
It was long and puffy , and was stamped in the upper corner with a picture of a brewery in full operation . 
One end bore an inscription addressed to the postmaster , stating that in case Mr. Thomas Grogan was not found within ten days , it should be returned to Schwartz Co . 
The village post office had several other letter boxes , faced with glass , so that the contents of each could be seen from the outside . 
Two of these contained similar envelopes , looking equally important , one being addressed to McGaw . 
When he had called for his mail , the close resemblance between the two envelopes seen in the letter boxes set McGaw to thinking . 
Actual scrutiny through the glass revealed the picture of the brewery on each . 
He knew then that Tom had been asked to bid for the brewery hauling . 
That night a special meeting of the Union was called at eight o'clock . 
Quigg , Crimmins , and McGaw signed the call . 
Hully gee , what a wad ! said Cully , when the postmaster passed Tom's big letter out to him . 
One of Cully's duties was to go for the mail . 
There were also blank forms in duplicate to be duly filled up with the price and signature of the bidder . 
This contract was given out once a year . 
Twice before it had been awarded to Thomas Grogan . 
The year before a man from Stapleton had bid lowest , and had done the work . 
McGaw and his friends complained that it took the bread out of Rockville's mouth but as the bidder belonged to the Union , no protest could be made . 
The morning after the meeting of the Union , McGaw went to New York by the early boat . 
He carried a letter from Pete Lathers , the yardmaster , to Crane Co . 
McGaw , in return , was to use his pull to get a permit from the village trustees for the free use of the village dock by Crane Co . 
for discharging their Rockville coal . 
This would save Crane half a mile to haul . 
It was this promise made by McGaw which really turned the scale in his favor . 
To hustle successfully it was often necessary for Crane to cut some sharp corners . 
This dock , as McGaw knew perfectly well , had been leased to another party the Fertilizing Company for two years , and could not possibly be placed at Crane's disposal . 
But he said nothing of this to Crane . 
When the day of payment to McGaw arrived , Dempsey of the executive committee and Walking Delegate Quigg met McGaw at the ferry on his return from New York . 
McGaw had Crane's money in his pocket . 
Tom also had an interview with Mr. Crane shortly after his interview with McGaw . 
Pop filled up the proposal in his round , clear hand , and Tom signed it , Thomas Grogan , Rockville , Staten Island . 
Then Pop witnessed it , and Mr. Crane , a few days later , duly inscribed the firm's name under the clause reserved for bondsmen . 
After that Tom brought the bid home , and laid it on the shelf over her bed . 
Everything was now ready for the fight . 
The bids were to be opened at noon in the office of the brewery . 
By eleven o'clock the hangers on and idlers began to lounge into the big yard paved with cobblestones . 
At half past eleven McGaw got out of a buggy , accompanied by Quigg . 
Then she picked up a chair and , placing it against the wall , sat down . 
Sticking out of the breast pocket of her ulster was the big envelope containing her bid . 
Five minutes before the hour the men began filing in one by one , awkwardly uncovering their heads , and standing in one another's way . 
Some , using their hats as screens , looked over the rims . 
When the bids were being gathered up by the clerk , Dennis Quigg handed over McGaw's . 
His new position was strengthened by the liberal way in which he had portioned out his possessions to the workingman . 
It was further sustained by the hope that he might perhaps repeat his generosities in the near future . 
The first four were from parties in outside villages . 
Then came McGaw's Forty nine cents for coal , etc . 
So far he was lowest . 
Quigg twisted his hat nervously , and McGaw's coarse face grew red and white by turns . 
Tom's bid was the last . 
Thomas Grogan , Rockville , S. I. , thirty eight cents for coal , etc . 
Gentlemen , said Mr. Schwartz , quietly , Thomas Grogan gets the hauling . 
They knew , too , something of the indomitable pluck and endurance of Tom Grogan . 
If she were lowest on the bids , she would fight for the contract , they felt sure , if it took her last dollar . 
McGaw was a fool , they said , to bid so high he might have known she would cut his throat , and bring them no end of trouble . 
Having nursed their resentment , and needing a common object for their wrath , the women broke out against Tom . 
And the most envious had always maintained that she meant at the time to put him away forever where no one could find him , so that she might play the man herself . 
Oi'll be one to go an' pull her off the dock and jump on her . 
She's doin' what she's a right to do , broke out Mrs. Todd indignantly . 
Mrs. Todd was the wife of the foreman at the brewery , and an old friend of Tom's . 
Tom had sat up with her child only the week before . 
It's not Tom Grogan that's crooked , Mrs. Todd continued , an' ye all know it . 
It's that loafer , Dennis Quigg , and that old sneak , Crimmins . 
They never lifted their hands on a decent job in their lives , an' don't want to . 
Bedad , ye're roight , said half a dozen women , the tide turning suddenly , while the excitement grew and spread , and other women came in from the several smaller tenements . 
Is the trouble at the brewery ? asked a shrunken looking woman , opening a door on the corridor , a faded shawl over her head . 
She was a new comer , and had been in the tenement only a week or so not long enough to have the run of the house or to know her neighbors . 
Yes at Schwartz's , said Mrs. Todd , stopping opposite her door on the way to her own rooms . 
Your man's got a job there , ain't he ? He has , mum he's gateman the fust job in six months . 
Ye don't think they'll make him throw it up , do ye , mum ? Yes an' break his head if he don't . 
Thet's what they did to my man three years gone , till he had to come in with the gang and pay 'em two dollars a month , replied Mrs. Todd . 
But my man's jined , mum , a month ago they wouldn't let him work till he did . 
Won't ye come in an' set down ? It's a poor place we have we've been so long without work , an' my girl's laid off with a cough . 
She's been a workin' at the box factory . 
If the Union give notice again , I don't know what'll become of us . 
Can't we do somethin' ? Maybe Mrs. Grogan might give up the work if she knew how it was wid us . 
She seems like a dacent woman she was in to look at me girl last week , hearin' as how we were strangers an' she very bad . 
Oh , ye don't know her . 
Ye can save yer wind and shoe leather . 
She's on ter McGaw red hot that's the worst of it . 
He better look out she'll down him yet , said Mrs. Todd . 
As the two entered the stuffy , close room for further discussion , a young girl left her seat by the window , and moved into the adjoining apartment . 
She had that yellow , waxy skin , hollow , burning eyes , and hectic flush which tell the fatal story so clearly . 
While the women of the tenements were cursing or wringing their hands , the men were devoting themselves to more vigorous measures . 
A meeting was called for nine o'clock at Lion Hall . 
It was held behind closed doors . 
At the brewery all was quiet . 
When pressed by Quigg for a reply , he said quietly The price for hauling will be Grogan's bid . 
If she wants it , it is hers . 
Tom talked the matter over with Pop , and had determined to buy another horse and hire two extra carts . 
She discussed the situation with no one outside her house . 
If Schwartz wanted her to carry on the work , she would do it , Union or no Union . 
Mr. Crane was on her bond . 
That in itself was a bracing factor . 
Strong and self reliant as she was , the helping hand which this man held out to her was like an anchor in a storm . 
Jennie flew to open it . 
One was Mrs. Todd , the other the haggard , pinched , careworn woman who had spoken to her that morning at her room door in the tenement . 
They want to see you , mother , said Jennie , all the light gone out of her eyes . 
What could be the matter with Carl , she thought . 
It had been this way for a week . 
Well , bring 'em in . 
Hold on , I'll go meself . 
She would come , Tom , said Mrs. Todd , unwinding her shawl from her head and shoulders an' ye mustn't blame me , fer it's none of my doin's . 
Walk in , mum ye can speak to her yerself . 
Why , where is she ? looking out of the door into the darkness . 
Oh , here ye are I thought ye'd skipped . 
I'm the new comer in the tenements . 
Ye were in to see my girl th'other night . 
She's not dead ? said Tom , sinking into a chair . 
No , thank God we've got her still wid us but me man's come home to night nigh crazy . 
He's a walkin' the floor this minute , an' so I goes to Mrs. Todd , an' she come wid me . 
If he loses the job now , we're in the street . 
Only two weeks' work since las' fall , an' the girl gettin' worse every day , and every cint in the bank gone , an' hardly a chair lef' in the place . 
An' I says to him , 'I'll go meself . 
She come in to see Katie th' other night she'll listen to me . 
Tom had risen to her feet , her face expressing the deepest sympathy for the woman , though she was at a loss to understand the cause of her visitor's distress . 
Is yer man fired ? she asked . 
No , an' wouldn't be if they'd let him alone . 
No , said Tom , with emphasis , ye're not wrong ye're dead right . 
My man is a member , and so I come over And she rested her head wearily against the door , the tears streaming down her face . 
Tom looked at her wonderingly , and then , putting her strong arms about her , half carried her across the kitchen to a chair by the stove . 
Mrs. Todd leaned against the table , watching the sobbing woman . 
For a moment no one spoke . 
It was a new experience for Tom . 
Heretofore the fight had been her own and for her own . 
She had never supposed before that she filled so important a place in the neighborhood , and for a moment there flashed across her mind a certain justifiable pride in the situation . 
But this feeling was momentary . 
Here was a suffering woman . 
For the first time she realized that one weaker than herself might suffer in the struggle . 
What could she do to help her ? This thought was uppermost in her mind . 
Don't ye worry , she said tenderly . 
Schwartz won't fire yer man . 
No but the sluggers will . 
There was five men 'p'inted to day to do up the scabs an' the kickers who won't go out . 
They near killed him once in Newark for kickin' . 
It was that time , you know , when Katie was first took bad . 
Do ye know their names ? said Tom , her eyes flashing . 
No , an' me man don't . 
He's new , an' they dar'sn't trust him . 
It was in the back room , he says , they picked 'em out . 
Tom stood for some moments in deep thought , gazing at the fire , her arms akimbo . 
Then , wheeling suddenly , she opened the door of the sitting room , and said in a firm , resolute voice Gran'pop , come here I want ye . 
The old man laid down his book , and stood in the kitchen doorway . 
He was in his shirt sleeves , his spectacles on his forehead . 
Come inside the kitchen , an' shut that door behind ye . 
Here's me friend Jane Todd an' a friend of hers from the tenement . 
If they do , there's a hundred women and three times that many children that'll go hungry . 
Now , what'll I do ? Shall I chuck up the job or stick ? The old man looked into the desolate , weary face of the woman and then at Tom . 
Then he said slowly Well , child , ye kin do widout it , an' maybe t' others can't . 
Ye've got it straight , said Tom that's just what I think meself . 
Then , turning to the stranger Go home and tell yer man to go to bed . 
I'll touch nothin' that'll break the heart of any woman . 
I'll throw up me bid . 
He had already enriched his songs with certain tender allusions to their present frame of mind and their future state of happiness . 
This was Cully's invariable way of expressing his opinions on current affairs . 
Carl's budding hopes had been slightly nipped by the cold look in Tom's eye when she asked him if it took an hour to give Jennie a tattered apron . 
With some disappointment he noticed that except at rare intervals , and only when Tom was at home , he was no longer invited to the house . 
He had always been a timid , shrinking fellow where a woman was concerned , having followed the sea and lived among men since he was sixteen years old . 
During these earlier years he had made two voyages in the Pacific , and another to the whaling ground in the Arctic seas . 
On this last voyage , in a gale of wind , he had saved all the lives aboard a brig , the crew helpless from scurvy . 
He could with perfect equanimity have faced another storm and rescued a second crew any hour of the day or night , but he could not face a woman's displeasure . 
Moreover , what Tom wanted done was law to Carl . 
She had taken him out of the streets and given him a home . 
He would serve her in whatever way she wished as long as he lived . 
He and Gran'pop were fast friends . 
On Sundays Carl followed Tom and her family to church , waiting until they had left the house . 
He always sat far back near the door , so that he could see them come out . 
Then he would overtake Pop with Patsy , whenever the little fellow could go . 
Since the day of Tom's warning look , Carl rarely joined her daughter . 
Jennie would loiter by the way , speaking to the girls , but he would hang back . 
He felt that Tom did not want them together . 
One spring morning , however , a new complication arose . 
Dennis Quigg had been lounging outside the church door , his silk hat and green satin necktie glistening in the sun . 
When Jennie tripped out Quigg started forward . 
The look on his face , as with swinging shoulders he slouched beside her , sent a thrill of indignation through Carl . 
He could give her up , perhaps , if Tom insisted , but never to a man like Quigg . 
Before the walking delegate had passed the time of day , the young sailor was close beside Jennie , within touch of her hand . 
There was no love lost between the two men . 
Carl had not forgotten the proposition Quigg had made to him to leave Tom's employ , nor had Quigg forgotten the uplifted shovel with which his proposal had been greeted . 
Yet there was no well defined jealousy between them . 
Nor could Carl for a moment think of that narrow chested , red faced , flashily dressed Knight as being able to make the slightest impression on Mees Jan . 
Quigg , however , was more than welcome to Jennie to day . 
A little sense of wounded pride sent the hot color to her cheeks when she thought of Carl's apparent neglect . 
He had hardly spoken to her in weeks . 
What had she done that he should treat her so ? She would show him that there were just as good fellows about as Mr. Carl Nilsson . 
Still it was to Quigg she talked . 
And more than that , she gave him her prayer book to carry until she fixed her glove the glove that needed no fixing at all . 
And she chattered on about the dance at the boat club , and the picnic which was to come off when the weather grew warmer . 
And Carl walked silent beside her , with his head up and his heart down , and the tears very near his eyes . 
Jennie loitered for a moment . 
There was a look in Carl's face she had not seen before . 
She had not meant to hurt him , she said to herself . 
What mak' you no lak me anna more , Mees Jan ? I big annough to carry da buke , said Carl . 
Why , how you talk , Carl ! I never said such a word , said Jennie , leaning over the fence , her heart fluttering . 
The air was soft as a caress . 
Opal tinted clouds with violet shadows sailed above the low hills . 
In the shade of the fence dandelions had burst into bloom . 
From a bush near by a song sparrow flung a note of spring across the meadow . 
Well , you nev' cam' to stable anna more , Mees Jan , Carl said slowly , in a tender , pleading tone , his gaze on her face . 
The girl reached through the fence for the golden flower . 
She dared not trust herself to look . 
She knew what was in her lover's eyes . 
I get ta flower , said Carl , vaulting the fence with one hand . 
Oh , Carl ! she exclaimed suddenly . 
The horrid brier ! My hand's all scratched ! Ah , Mees Jan , I so sorry ! Let Carl see it , he said , his voice melting . 
I tak' ta brier out , pushing back the tangled vines of last year to bring himself nearer . 
The sparrow stood , on its tallest toes and twisted its little neck . 
The song sparrow clung to the swaying top of a mullein stalk near by , and poured out a strong , swelling , joyous song that well nigh split its throat . 
When Tom called Jennie , half an hour later , she and Carl were still talking across the fence . 
certified check for five hundred dollars to accompany each bid as guaranty , etc . 
The news was a grateful surprise to the workingmen . 
The hauling and placing of so large an amount of material as soon as spring opened meant plenty of work for many shovelers and pickers . 
McGaw , too , had known about it from the first day of its discussion before the board . 
Those who were inside the ring had decided then that he would be the best man to haul the stone . 
The steal , they knew , could best be arranged in the tally of the carts the final check on the scow measurement . 
They knew that McGaw's accounts could be controlled , and the total result easily fixed . 
The stone itself had been purchased of the manufacturers the year before , but there were not funds enough to put it on the roads at that time . 
Here , then , was McGaw's chance . 
His triumph at obtaining the brewery contract was but short lived . 
Schwartz had given him the work , but at Tom's price , not at his own . 
McGaw had accepted it , hoping for profits that would help him with his chattel mortgage . 
After he had been at work for a month , however , he found that he ran behind . 
He began to see that , in spite of its boastings , the Union had really done nothing for him , except indirectly with its threatened strike . 
The Union , on the other hand , insisted that it had been McGaw's business to arrange his own terms with Schwartz . 
What it had done was to kill Grogan as a competitor , and knock her non union men out of the job . 
While they said this much to McGaw so far as outsiders could know , the Union claimed that they had scored a brilliant victory . 
The Brooklyn and New York branches duly paraded it as another triumph over capital , and their bank accounts were accordingly increased with new dues and collections . 
With this new contract in his possession , McGaw felt certain he could cancel his debt with Crane and get even with the world . 
He began his arrangements at once . 
A brother of Rowan's , a contractor , who was finishing some grading at Quarantine Landing , had also consented , for a consideration , to loan McGaw what extra teams he required . 
His own advantage over other bidders was in his living on the spot , with his stables and teams near at hand . 
Tom , he felt assured , was out of the way . 
Tom , meanwhile , made frequent visits to New York , returning late at night . 
One day she brought home a circular with cuts of several improved kinds of hoisting engines with automatic dumping buckets . 
She showed them to Pop under the kerosene lamp at night , explaining to him their advantages in handling small material like coal or broken stone . 
Carl's experience as a sailor was especially valuable in matters of this kind . 
These sketches she took to the village blacksmith next day , and by that night had an estimate of their cost . 
She asked the superintendent to drop her a postal when the next sale occurred . 
To her neighbors , however , and even to her own men , she said nothing . 
When she returned she called Pop into the kitchen , shut the door , and showed him the bid duly signed and a slip of pink paper . 
This was a check of Crane Co . 
's to be deposited with the bid . 
Then she went down to the stable and had a long conference with Cully . 
The village Board of Trustees consisted of nine men , representing a fair average of the intelligence and honesty of the people . 
The president was a reputable hardware merchant , a very good citizen , who kept a store largely patronized by local contractors . 
Every man on the board , except the surgeon and the president , had some particular axe to grind . 
One wished to be sheriff another , county clerk . 
The five gentlemen of leisure wished to stay where they were . 
When a pie was cut , these five held the knife . 
It was their fault , they said , when they went hungry . 
In the side of this body politic the surgeon was a thorn as sharp as any one of his scalpels . 
At the first meeting of the board they learned their mistake , but it did not worry them much . 
They had seven votes to two . 
In summer it answered for a skating rink . 
Once a month the board occupied it . 
On these occasions a sort of rostrum was brought in for the president , besides a square table and a dozen chairs . 
These were placed at one end , and were partitioned off by a wooden rail to form an inclosure , outside of which always stood the citizens . 
On the wall hung a big eight day clock . 
Over the table , about which were placed chairs , a kerosene lamp swung on a brass chain . 
Opposite each seat lay a square of blotting paper and some cheap pens and paper . 
Down the middle of the table were three inkstands , standing in china plates . 
The board always met in the evening , as the business hours of the members prevented their giving the day to their deliberations . 
Upon the night of the letting of the contract the first man to arrive was McGaw . 
During the last week the Union was outspoken in its aid of McGaw , and its men had quietly passed the word of Hands off this job ! about in the neighborhood . 
If McGaw got the work and there was now not the slightest doubt of it he would , of course , employ all Union men . 
If anybody else got it well , they would attend to him later . 
One thing was certain no 'scab' from New Brighton should come over and take it . 
They'd do up anybody who tried that game . 
When McGaw , surrounded by his friends entered the board room again , the place was full . 
Outside the rail stood a solid mass of people . 
Inside every seat was occupied . 
It was too important a meeting for any trustee to miss . 
McGaw stood on his toes and looked over the heads . 
To his delight , Tom was not in the room , and no one representing her . 
If he had had any lingering suspicion of her bidding , her non appearance allayed it . 
He knew now that she was out of the race . 
Moreover , no New Brighton people had come . 
He whispered this information to Justice Rowan's brother behind his big , speckled hand covered with its red , spidery hair . 
Then the two forced their way out again , reentered the post office , and borrowed a pen . 
Once there , McGaw took from his side pocket two large envelopes , the contents of which he spread out under the light . 
I'm dead roight , said McGaw . 
I'll put up the price of this other bid . 
There ain't a man round here that dares show his head . 
Will the woman bid ? asked his companion . 
The woman ! What'd she be a doin' wid a bid loike that ? She c'u'dn't handle the half of it . 
I'll wait till a few minutes to nine o'clock . 
Ye kin fix up both these bids an' hold 'em in yer pocket . 
Thin we kin see what bids is laid on the table . 
If there's nothin' else we'll give'em the high one . 
I'll git inside the rail , so's to be near the table . 
When the two squeezed back through the throng again into the board room , even the staircase was packed . 
McGaw pulled off his fur cap and struggled past the rail , bowing to the president . 
The justice's brother stood outside , within reach of McGaw's hand . 
McGaw glanced at the clock and winked complacently at his prospective partner not a single bid had been handed in . 
Then he thrust out his long arm , took from Rowan's brother the big envelope containing the higher bid , and dropped it on the table . 
Just then there was a commotion at the door . 
Somebody was trying to force a passage in . 
The president rose from his chair , and looked over the crowd . 
McGaw started from his chair , looked anxiously at the clock , then at his partner . 
The body of a boy struggling like an eel worked its way through the mass , dodged under the wooden bar , and threw an envelope on the table . 
Dat's Tom Grogan's bid , he said , looking at the president . 
At this instant the clock struck nine , and the president's gavel fell . 
Time's up , said the Scotchman . 
XI A TWO DOLLAR BILL The excitement over the outcome of the bidding was intense . 
The more hot headed and outspoken swore vengeance not only against the horse doctor , who had refused to permit McGaw to smuggle in the second bid , but against Crane Co . 
and everybody else who had helped to defeat their schemes . 
They meant to boycott Crane before tomorrow night . 
He should not unload or freight another cargo of coal until they allowed it . 
The village powers , they admitted , could not be boycotted , but they would do everything they could to make it uncomfortable for the board if it awarded the contract to Grogan . 
Neither would they forget the trustees at the next election . 
As to that smart Alec of a horse doctor , they knew how to fix him . 
Around the tenements the interest was no less marked . 
Ah , but Tom's a keener , said that gossip . 
He'll niver haul a shovel o' that stone . 
How'll she be a doin' a job like that ? came from a woman listening over the banisters . 
Be doin' ? rejoined a red headed virago . 
Wouldn't ye be doin' it yerself if ye had that big coal dealer behind ye ? Oh , we hear enough . 
Who says they're in it ? rejoined a third listener . 
Pete Lathers says so the yard boss . 
He was a tellin' me man yisterday . 
On consulting Justice Rowan the next morning , McGaw and his friends found but little comfort . 
The law was explicit , the justice said . 
The contract must be given to the lowest responsible bidder . 
Tom had deposited her certified check of five hundred dollars with the bid , and there was no informality in her proposal . 
He was sorry for McGaw , but if Mrs. Grogan signed the contract there was no hope for him . 
The horse doctor's action was right . 
If McGaw's second bid had been received , it would simply have invalidated both of his , the law forbidding two from the same bidder . 
Rowan's opinion sustaining Tom's right was a blow he did not expect . 
Furthermore , the justice offered no hope for the future . 
The law gave Tom the award , and nothing could prevent her hauling the stone if she signed the contract . 
These words rang in McGaw's ears if she signed the contract . 
On this if hung his only hope . 
Rowan was too shrewd a politician , now that McGaw's chances were gone , to advise any departure , even by a hair line , from the strict letter of the law . 
He was , moreover , too upright as a justice to advise any member of the defeated party to an overt act which might look like unfairness to any bidder concerned . 
He had had a talk , besides , with his brother over night , and they had accordingly determined to watch events . 
This determination was strengthened when McGaw , in a burst of confidence , told Rowan of his present financial straits . 
From Rowan's the complaining trio adjourned to O'Leary's barroom . 
Crimmins and McGaw entered first . 
Then Crimmins opened a door concealed by a wooden screen , and the three disappeared upstairs . 
Crimmins reappeared within an hour , and hurried out the front door . 
In a few moments he returned with Justice Rowan , who had adjourned court . 
Immediately after the justice's arrival there came three raps from the floor above , and O'Leary swung back the door , and disappeared with an assortment of drinkables on a tray . 
The conference lasted until noon . 
Then the men separated outside the barroom . 
From the expression on the face of each one as he emerged from the door it was evident that the meeting had not produced any very cheering or conclusive results . 
McGaw had that vindictive , ugly , bulldog look about the eyes and mouth which always made his wife tremble when he came home . 
The result of the present struggle over the contract was a matter of life or death to him . 
His notes , secured by the chattel mortgage on his live stock , would be due in a few days . 
Losing this contract , he had lost his only hope of paying them . 
Had it been awarded him , he could have found a dozen men who would have loaned him the money to take up these notes and so to pay Crane . 
Now even this hope had failed him . 
Whoever heard of a woman's doing a job for a city ? he kept repeating mechanically to himself . 
Tom knew of none of these conspiracies . 
Had she done so they would not have caused her a moment's anxiety . 
This was no brewery contract , she argued with Pop , where five hundred men might be thrown out of employment , with all the attendant suffering to women and children . 
The village was a power nobody could boycott . 
Moreover , the law protected her in her rights under the award . 
She would therefore quietly wait until the day for signing the papers arrived , furnish her bond , and begin a work she could superintend herself . 
In the meantime she would continue her preparations . 
One thing she was resolved upon she would have nothing to do with the Union . 
Carl could lay his hand on a dozen of his countrymen who would be glad to get employment with her . 
If they were all like him she need have no fear in any emergency . 
Her friends took her good fortune less calmly . 
Their genuine satisfaction expressed itself in a variety of ways . 
The Union , in their deliberations , insisted that it was the raised bid which had ruined the business with McGaw and for them . 
It was therefore McGaw's duty to spare no effort to prevent her signing the contract . 
They had stuck by him in times gone by he must now stick by them . 
One point was positively insisted upon Union men must be employed on the work , whoever got it . 
McGaw , however , was desperate . 
He denounced Tom in a vocabulary peculiar to himself and full of innuendoes and oaths , but without offering any suggestion as to how his threats against her might be carried out . 
With his usual slyness , Quigg said very little openly . 
He had not yet despaired of winning Jennie's favor , and until that hope was abandoned he could hardly make up his mind which side of the fence he was on . 
Crimmins was even more indifferent in regard to the outcome his pay as walking delegate went on , whichever side won he could wait . 
In this emergency McGaw again sought Crimmins's assistance . 
The first step , he argued , was the necessity of crushing Tom . 
Everything else would be easy after that . 
McGaw's tempting promise made a deep impression upon Crimmins . 
He determined then and there to inflict some blow on Tom Grogan from which she could never recover . 
He was equally determined on one other thing not to be caught . 
Early the next morning Crimmins stationed himself outside O'Leary's where he could get an uninterrupted view of two streets . 
He stood hunched up against the jamb of O'Leary's door in the attitude of a corner loafer , with three parts of his body touching the wood hip , shoulder , and cheek . 
Cully's unexpected appearance at that moment produced so uncomfortable an effect upon Mr. Crimmins that that gentleman fell instantly back through the barroom door . 
Cully slackened his pace to see what new move Crimmins would make but without the slightest sign of recognition on his face and again broke into song . 
That valiant Knight was still in bed , exhausted by the labors of the previous evening . 
He slapped the patched knees of his overalls gayly , bent over in a subdued chuckle , and disported himself in a merry and much satisfied way . 
His rum and watery eyes gleamed with delight , and even his chin whisker took on a new vibration . 
Then he opened the blind very cautiously , and beckoned to Billy . 
Cully's eye caught the new movement as he turned the corner . 
When Mr. Finnegan had anything very serious on his mind he never sang . 
When , some time after , Billy emerged from O'Leary's door , he had a two dollar bill tightly squeezed in his right hand . 
Part of this he spent on his way home for a box of cigarettes the balance he invested in a mysterious looking tin can . 
The can was narrow and long and had a screw nozzle at one end . 
This can Cully saw him hide in a corner of his father's stable . 
She had counted upon McGaw falling into her trap , and she was delighted over the success of her experiment . 
Tom had once before caught him raising a bid when he discovered that but one had been offered . 
Mr. Finnegan was to wear a black sack coat , a derby hat , and a white shirt which Jennie , in the goodness of her heart , had ironed for him herself . 
She had also ironed a scarf of Carl's , and had laid it on the window sill of the outer kitchen , where Cully might find it as he passed by . 
The walks home from church were now about the only chance the lovers had of being together . 
Almost every day Carl was off with the teams . 
When he did come home in working hours he would take his dinner with the men and boys in the outer kitchen . 
Jennie sometimes waited on them , but he rarely spoke to her as she passed in and out , except with his eyes . 
Cully's metamorphosis was even more complete than Carl's . 
Reaching to the edge of each ear was a collar as stiff as pasteboard . 
His derby was tilted over his left eyebrow , shading a face brimming over with fun and expectancy . 
Below this was a vermilion colored necktie and a black coat and trousers . 
His shoes sported three coats of blacking , which only partly concealed the dust marks of his profession . 
Hully gee , Carl ! but de circus's a goin' ter be a dandy , he called out in delight , as he patted a double shuffle with his feet . 
I see de picters on de fence when I come from de ferry . 
Dere's a chariot race out o' sight , an' a' elephant what stands on 'is head . 
Hold on till I see ef de Big Gray 's got enough beddin' under him . 
He wuz awful stiff dis mornin' when I helped him up . 
Cully never went to bed without seeing the Gray first made comfortable for the night . 
When they returned it was nearly midnight . 
Besides , the mule had ruined it completely for a second use . 
It was a warm night for early spring , and Carl had his coat over his arm . 
When they reached the outer stable fence the one nearest the village Cully's keen nose scented a peculiar odor . 
Who's been a breakin' de lamp round here , Carl ? he asked , sniffing close to the ground . 
What would she be a doin' out here , anyway ? he exclaimed in a sudden anxious tone . 
Dis ain't de road from de house . 
A window was hastily opened in Tom's house and a frightened shriek broke the stillness of the night . 
It was Jennie's voice , and it had a tone of something besides alarm . 
What the sight of the fire had paralyzed in Carl , the voice awoke . 
No , no ! I here I safe , Jan ! he cried , clearing the fence with a bound . 
Cully did not hear Jennie . 
He saw only the curling flames over the Big Gray's head . 
Carl seized a horse bucket , and began sousing the window sills of the harness room , where the fire was hottest . 
By this time the whole house was aroused . 
Tom , dazed by the sudden awakening , with her ulster thrown about her shoulders , stood barefooted on the porch . 
Jennie was still at the window , sobbing as if her heart would break , now that Carl was safe . 
Patsy had crawled out of his low crib by his mother's bed , and was stumbling downstairs , one foot at a time . 
Twice had Cully tried to drag the old horse clear of his stall , and twice had he fallen back for fresh air . 
Hardly had the Big Gray cleared the stable when the roof of the small extension fell , and a great burst of flame shot up into the night air . 
All hope of rescuing the other two horses was now gone . 
Tom did not stand long dazed and bewildered . 
By this time the neighbors began to arrive from the tenements . 
The heat now was terrific Carl had to shield his face with his sleeve as he threw the water . 
Cully lay flat on the shingles , holding to the steaming blankets , and directing Carl's buckets with his outstretched finger when some greater spark lodged and gained headway . 
If they could keep these burning brands under until the heat had spent itself , they could perhaps save the tool house and the larger stable . 
All this time Patsy had stood on the porch where Tom had left him hanging over the railing wrapped in Jennie's shawl . 
He was not to move until she came for him she wanted him out of the way of trampling feet . 
Now and then she would turn anxiously , catch sight of his wizened face dazed with fright , wave her hand to him encouragingly , and work on . 
Suddenly the little fellow gave a cry of terror and slid from the porch , trailing the shawl after him , his crutch jerking over the ground , his sobs almost choking him . 
The noise of axes beating down the burning fences drowned all other sounds . 
At this moment Tom was standing on a cart , passing up the buckets to Carl . 
Cully had crawled to the ridge pole of the tool house to watch both sides of the threatened roof . 
On this side was a door opening into a room where the chains were kept . 
From it rose a short flight of six or seven steps leading to the loft . 
This loft had two big doors one closed , nearest the fire , and the other wide open , fronting the house . 
When the roof of the burning stable fell , the wisps of straw in the cracks of the closed door burst into flame . 
A child's head appeared above the floor , followed by a cry of joy as the boy flung himself upon the straining rope . 
The next instant a half frenzied goat sprang through the open door and landed in the yard below in the midst of the startled men and women . 
Tom was on the cart when she saw this streak of light flash out of the darkness of the loft door and disappear . 
Her eyes instinctively turned to look at Patsy in his place on the porch . 
Then a cry of horror burst from the crowd , silenced instantly as a piercing shriek filled the air . 
At this instant a man in his shirt sleeves dropped from the smoking roof , sprang in front of her , and caught her in his arms . 
No , not you go Carl go ! he said in a firm voice , holding her fast . 
There was a quick clutch , a bound back , and the smoke rolled over them , shutting man and child from view . 
The crowd held their breath as it waited . 
A man with his hair singed and his shirt on fire staggered from the side door . 
In his arms he carried the almost lifeless boy , his face covered by the handkerchief . 
A woman rushed up , caught the boy in her arms , and sank on her knees . 
The man reeled and fell . 
When Carl regained consciousness , Jennie was bending over him , chafing his hands and bathing his face . 
Patsy was on the sofa , wrapped in Jennie's shawl . 
Carl's wet handkerchief , the old man said , had kept the boy from suffocating . 
The crowd had begun to disperse . 
The neighbors and strangers had gone their several ways . 
The tenement house mob were on the road to their beds . 
Many friends had stopped to sympathize , and even the bitterest of Tom's enemies said they were glad it was no worse . 
When the last of them had left the yard , Tom , tired out with anxiety and hard work , threw herself down on the porch . 
The morning was already breaking , the gray streaks of dawn brightening the east . 
From her seat she could hear through the open door the soothing tones of Jennie's voice as she talked to her lover , and the hoarse whispers of Carl in reply . 
He had recovered his breath again , and was but little worse for his scorching , except in his speech . 
Jennie was in the kitchen making some coffee for the exhausted workers , and he was helping her . 
Tom realized fully all that had happened . 
She knew who had saved Patsy's life . 
She remembered how he laid her boy in her arms , and she still saw the deathly pallor in his face as he staggered and fell . 
What would he have thought of it ? How would he have advised her to act ? He had always hoped such great things for Jennie . 
She heard nothing but the voice of Jennie and her lover , saw only the white face of her boy . 
A sickening sense of utter loneliness swept over her . 
She rose and moved away . 
Billy turned pale , but held his ground . 
He felt sure Cully would not dare attack him with so many others about . 
Then , again , the glow of the smouldering cinders had a fascination for him that held him to the spot . 
The only view of the smoking ruins that satisfied him seemed to be the one he caught over young McGaw's shoulder . 
He moved closer and closer , sniffing about cautiously , as a dog would on a trail . 
Indeed , the closer he got to Billy's coat the more absorbed he seemed to be in the view beyond . 
Here an extraordinary thing happened . 
The bystanders laughed they thought it only a boyish trick . 
Billy kicked and struggled , but Cully held on . 
When they were clear of the crowd , Cully shook him to the ground and grabbed him by the coat collar . 
Say , young feller , where wuz ye when de fire started ? At this Billy broke into a howl , and one of the crowd , some distance off , looked up . 
Cully clapped his hand over his mouth . 
None o' that , or I'll mash yer mug see ? standing over him with clenched fist . 
I warn't nowheres , stammered Billy . 
Say , take yer hands off'n me ye ain't T'ell I ain't ! Ye answer me straight see ? or I'll punch yer face in , tightening his grasp . 
Ye set de stable afire . 
Why dat fence on de hill . 
That was enough for Cully . 
The lie had betrayed him . 
Without a word he jerked the cowardly boy from the ground , and marched him straight into the kitchen Say , Carl , I got de fire bug . 
Ye kin smell der ker'sene on his clo'es . 
He had been waiting all the evening for Crimmins , who had failed to arrive . 
Billy had not been at home since supper , so he could get no details as to the amount of the damage from that source . 
Mr. Quigg accepted the mission , the more willingly because he wanted to settle certain affairs of his own . 
He could slip over to the house while Tom was in the city , and leave before she returned . 
On his way , the next day , he robbed a garden fence of a mass of lilacs , breaking off the leaves as he walked . 
He knew Quigg only by sight an unpleasant sight , he thought , as he looked into his hesitating , wavering eyes . 
It's a bad fire ye had , Mr. Mullins , said Quigg , seating himself in the rocker , the blossoms half strangled in his grasp . 
Yis , purty bad , but small loss , thank God , said Pop quietly . 
That lets her out of the contract , don't it ? said Quigg . 
She'll be short of horses now . 
He did not intend to give Mr. Quigg any information that might comfort him . 
Were ye insured ? asked Quigg , in a cautious tone , his eyes on the lilacs . 
Oh , yis , ivery pinny on what was burned , so Mary tells me . 
Quigg caught his breath the rumor in the village was the other way . 
Why didn't Crimmins make a clean sweep of it and burn 'em all at once , he said to himself . 
I brought some flowers over for Miss Jennie , said Quigg , regaining his composure . 
Is she in ? Yis I'll call her . 
Gentle and apparently harmless as Gran'pop was , men like Quigg somehow never looked him steadily in the eye . 
You're very kind , Mr. Quigg , said the girl , laying them on the table , and still standing . 
I hear'd your brother Patsy was near smothered till Dutchy got him out . 
Was ye there ? Jennie bit her lip and her heart quickened . 
Carl's sobriquet in the village , coming from such lips , sent the hot blood to her cheeks . 
The fellers in Rockville say ye think it was set afire . 
I see Justice Rowan turned Billy McGaw loose . 
Do ye suspect anybody else ? Some says a tramp crawled in and upset his pipe . 
This lie was coined on the spot and issued immediately to see if it would pass . 
Mother says she knows who did it , and it'll all come out in time . 
Cully found the can this morning , said Jennie , leaning against the table . 
Quigg's jaw fell and his brow knit as Jennie spoke . 
That was just like the fool , he said to himself . 
I hope nothing will happen to mother , Mr. Quigg , said Jennie , in an anxious tone , as she sank into a chair . 
Quigg misunderstood the movement , and moved his own closer . 
There won't nothin' happen any more , Jennie , if you'll do as I say . 
It was the first time he had ever called her by her name . 
She could not understand how he dared . 
She wished Carl would come in . 
Will you do it ? asked Quigg eagerly , his cunning face and mean eyes turned toward her . 
Jennie never raised her head . 
Quigg went on , I've been keepin' company with ye , Jennie , all winter , and the fellers is guyin' me about it . 
You know I'm solid with the Union and can help yer mother , and if ye'll let me speak to Father McCluskey next Sunday The girl sprang from her chair . 
I won't have you talk that way to me , Dennis Quigg ! I never said a word to you , and you know it . 
Her mother's spirit was now flashing in her eyes . 
You ought to be ashamed of yourself to come here and Then she broke down . 
Another woman would have managed it differently , perhaps , by a laugh , a smile of contempt , or a frigid refusal . 
This mere child , stung to the quick by Quigg's insult , had only her tears in defense . 
The Walking Delegate turned his head and looked out of the window . 
Then he caught up his hat and without a word to the sobbing girl hastily left the room . 
Tom was just entering the lower gate . 
Quigg saw her and tried to dodge behind the tool house , but it was too late , so he faced her . 
Tom's keen eye caught the sly movement and the quickly altered expression . 
Some new trickery was in the air , she knew she detected it in every line of Quigg's face . 
What was McGaw up to now ? she asked herself . 
Was he after Carl and the men , or getting ready to burn the other stable ? Good morning , Mr. Quigg . 
Ain't ye lost ? she asked coldly . 
Oh no , said Quigg , with a forced laugh . 
I come over to see if I could help about the fire . 
It was the first thing that came into his head he had hoped to pass with only a nod of greeting . 
Did ye ? replied Tom thoughtfully . 
She saw he had lied , but she led him on . 
Perhaps ye were thinkin' of lendin' a hand yerself . 
If ye did , I can put ye alongside of Carl one shovel might do for both of ye . 
Quigg colored and laughed uneasily . 
Somebody had told her , then , how Carl had threatened him with uplifted shovel when he tried to coax the Swede away . 
No , I'm not diggin' these days but I've got a pull wid the insurance adjuster , and might git an extra allowance for yer . 
This was cut from whole cloth . 
He had never known an adjuster in his life . 
What's that ? asked Tom , still looking square at him , Quigg squirming under her glance like a worm on a pin . 
Well , the company can't tell how much feed was in the bins , and tools , and sech like , he said , with another laugh . 
A laugh is always a safe parry when a pair of clear gray search light eyes are cutting into one like a rapier . 
An' yer idea is for me to git paid for stuff that wasn't burned up , is it ? Well , that's as how the adjuster says . 
Sometimes he sees it an' sometimes he don't that's where the pull comes in . 
Tom put her arms akimbo , her favorite attitude when her anger began to rise . 
Oh I see ! The pull is in bribin' the adjuster , as ye call him , so he can cheat the company . 
Quigg shrugged his shoulders that part of the transaction was a mere trifle . 
What were companies made for but to be cheated ? Tom stood for a minute looking him all over . 
Turn yer head this way , Quigg . 
Quigg smothered a curse and turned on his heel toward the village . 
When he reached O'Leary's , Dempsey of the Executive Committee met him at the door . 
He and McGaw had spent the whole morning in devising plans to keep Tom out of the board room . 
Quigg's report was not reassuring . 
She would be paid her insurance money , he said , and would certainly be at the meeting that night . 
The three adjourned to the room over the bar . 
McGaw began pacing the floor , his long arms hooked behind his back . 
He had passed a sleepless night , and every hour now added to his anxiety . 
His face was a dull gray yellow , and his eyes were sunken . 
Now and then he would tug at his collar nervously . 
As he walked he clutched his fingers , burying the nails in the palms , the red hair on his wrists bristling like spiders' legs . 
Dempsey sat at the table watching him calmly out of the corner of his eye . 
After a pause Quigg leaned over , his lips close to Dempsey's ear . 
Then he drew a plan on the back of an old wine list . 
It marked the position of the door in Tom's stable , and that of a path which ran across lots and was concealed from her house by a low fence . 
Dempsey studied it a moment , nodding at Quigg's whispered explanations , and passed it to McGaw , repeating Quigg's words . 
McGaw stopped and bent his head . 
A dull gleam flashed out of his smouldering eyes . 
The lines of his face hardened and his jaw tightened . 
For some minutes he stood irresolute , gazing vacantly over the budding trees through the window . 
Then he turned sharply , swallowed a brimming glass of raw whiskey , and left the room . 
When the sound of his footsteps had died away , Dempsey looked at Quigg meaningly and gave a low laugh . 
XIV BLOSSOM WEEK It was blossom week , and every garden and hedge flaunted its bloom in the soft air . 
All about was the perfume of flowers , the odor of fresh grass , and that peculiar earthy smell of new made garden beds but lately sprinkled . 
Behind the hill overlooking the harbor the sun was just sinking into the sea . 
Some sentinel cedars guarding its crest stood out in clear relief against the golden light . 
About their tops , in wide circles , swooped a flock of crows . 
Gran'pop and Tom sat on the front porch , their chairs touching , his hand on hers . 
She had been telling him of Quigg's visit that morning . 
She had changed her dress for a new one . 
The dress was of brown cloth , and had been made in the village tight where it should be loose , and loose where it should be tight . 
She had put it on , she told Pop , to make a creditable appearance before the board that night . 
Jennie was flitting in and out between the sitting room and the garden , her hands full of blossoms , filling the china jars on the mantel none of them contained Quigg's contribution . 
Patsy was flat on his back on the small patch of green surrounding the porch , playing circus elephant with Stumpy , who stood over him with leveled head . 
Up the hill , but a few rods away , Cully was grazing the Big Gray the old horse munching tufts of fresh , sweet grass sprinkled with dandelions . 
Now and then he lifted one of his legs , examining the hoof critically for possible tender places . 
Suddenly Jennie's cheek flushed as she came out on the porch . 
Carl was coming up the path . 
The young Swede was bareheaded , the short blond curls glistening in the light his throat was bare too , so that one could see the big muscles in his neck . 
Jennie always liked him with his throat bare it reminded her of a hero she had once seen in a play , who stormed a fort and rescued all the starving women . 
He knew where Jennie was , but he never looked . 
What's the matter with him ? asked Tom , her thoughts far away at the moment . 
I don' know he no eat da oats en da box . 
Will he drink ? said Tom , awakening to the importance of the information . 
It's fever he's got , she said , turning to Pop . 
I thought that yisterday noon when I sees him a workin' . 
All right , Carl I'll be down before I go to the board meetin' . 
And see here , Carl ye'd better git ready to go wid me . 
I'll start in a couple o' hours . 
Will it suit ye , Gran'pop , if Carl goes with me ? patting her father's shoulder . 
If ye keep on a worritin' I'll hev to hire a cop to follow me round . 
Carl lingered for a moment on the steps . 
Perhaps Tom had some further orders perhaps , too , Jennie would come out again . 
Involuntarily his eye wandered toward the open door , and then he turned to go . 
Jennie's heart sprang up in her throat . 
She had seen from behind the curtains the shade of disappointment that crossed her lover's face . 
She could suffer herself , but she could not see Carl unhappy . 
In an instant she was beside her mother . 
Anything to keep Carl she did not care what . 
Oh , Carl , will you bring the ladder so I can reach the long branches ? she said , her quick wit helping her with a subterfuge . 
Carl turned and glanced at Tom . 
He felt the look in her face and could read her thoughts . 
If Tom had heard Jennie she never moved . 
This affair must end in some way , she said to herself . 
Carl must get ready to Pop laid his hand on hers . 
There's plinty o' toime , Mary . 
Ye'll git the ladder behint the kitchen door , Carl . 
I hed it ther' mesilf this mornin' . 
Above their heads the branches twined and interlaced , shedding their sweetest blossoms over their happy upturned faces . 
Tom did not answer her eyes were on the cedars where the crows were flying , black silhouettes against the yellow sky . 
She could not see the cedars now . 
All the hill was swimming in light . 
Oi hev watched Carl sence he fust come , Mary . 
It's a good mither some'er's as has lost a foine b'y . 
W'u'dn't ye be lonely yersilf ef ye'd come here wid nobody to touch yer hand ? Tom shivered and covered her face . 
He never looked at her his face was now too turned toward the dying sun . 
Look at thim two over there , Mary , wid their arms full o' flowers . 
Don't be breakin' their hearts , child . 
Tom turned and slipped her arm around the old man's neck , her head sinking on his shoulder . 
The tears were under her eyelids her heart was bursting only her pride sustained her . 
Then in a half whispered voice , like a child telling its troubles , she said Ye don't know ye don't know , Gran'pop . 
The dear God knows it's not on account of meself . 
It's Tom I'm thinkin' of night an' day me Tom , me Tom . 
She's his child as well as mine . 
If he could only help me ! He wanted such great things for Jennie . 
It ud be easier if he hadn't saved Patsy . 
Don't speak to me ag'in about it , father dear it hurts me . 
The old man rose from his chair and walked slowly into the house . 
All his talks with his daughter ended in this way . 
It was always what Tom would have thought . 
Soon the shadows fell in the little valley , and the hill beyond the cedars lost itself in the deepening haze that now crept in from the tranquil sea . 
Carl's voice calling to Cully to take in the Gray roused her to consciousness . 
She pushed back her chair , stood for an instant watching Carl romping with Patsy , and then walked slowly toward the stable . 
By the time she reached the water trough her old manner had returned . 
Her step became once more elastic and firm her strong will asserted itself . 
She had work to do , and at once . 
In two hours the board would meet . 
She needed all her energies and resources . 
The lovers must wait she could not decide any question for them now . 
As she passed the stable window a man in a fur cap raised his head cautiously above the low fence and shrank back into the shadow . 
Tom threw open the door and felt along the sill for the lantern and matches . 
They were not in their accustomed place . 
The man crouched , ran noiselessly toward the rear entrance , and crept in behind a stall . 
Tom laid her hand on the haunches of the horse and began rolling back his blanket . 
The man drew himself up slowly until his shoulders were on a level with the planking . 
Tom moved a step and turned her face . 
The man raised his arm , whirled a hammer high in the air , and brought it down upon her head . 
When Cully led the Big Gray into his stall , a moment later , he stepped into a pool of blood . 
XV IN THE SHADOW OF DEATH At the appointed hour the Board of Trustees met in the hall over the post office . 
The usual loungers filled the room members of the Union , and others who had counted on a piece of the highway pie when it was cut . 
Dempsey , Crimmins , and Quigg sat outside the rail , against the wall . 
They were waiting for McGaw , who had not been seen since the afternoon . 
The president was in his accustomed place . 
The five gentlemen of leisure , the veterinary surgeon , and the other trustees occupied their several chairs . 
The roll had been called , and every man had answered to his name . 
The occasion being one of much importance , a full board was required . 
As the minute hand neared the hour of nine Dempsey became uneasy . 
He started every time a new comer mounted the stairs . 
Where was McGaw ? No one had seen him since he swallowed the tumblerful of whiskey and disappeared from O'Leary's , a few hours before . 
The president rapped for order , and announced that the board was ready to sign the contract with Thomas Grogan for the hauling and delivery of the broken stone required for public highways . 
Is Mrs. Grogan here ? asked the president , looking over the room and waiting for a reply . 
Is any one here who represents her ? he repeated , after a pause , rising in his seat as he spoke . 
The only sound heard in the room was that of the heavy step of a man mounting the stairs . 
Is there any one here who can speak for Mrs. Thomas Grogan ? called the president again , in a louder voice . 
I can , said the man with the heavy tread , who proved to be the foreman at the brewery . 
She won't live till mornin' one of her horses kicked her and broke her skull , so McGaw told me . 
Broke her skull ! My God ! man , how do you know ? demanded the president , his voice trembling with excitement . 
Every man's face was now turned toward the new comer a momentary thrill of horror ran through the assemblage . 
I heard it at the druggist's . 
One of her boys was over for medicine . 
Mason sewed up her head . 
He was drivin' by , on his way to Quarantine , when it happened . 
Mason ? asked a trustee , eager for details . 
The man what used to be at Quarantine seven years ago . 
Dempsey caught up his hat and hurriedly left the room , followed by Quigg and Crimmins . 
McGaw , he said to himself , as he ran downstairs , must be blind drunk , not to come to the meeting . 
him ! What if he gives everything away ! he added aloud . 
This news is awful , said the president . 
I am very sorry for Mrs. Grogan and her children she was a fine woman . 
It is a serious matter , too , for the village . 
The highway work ought to commence at once the roads need it . 
We may now have to advertise again . 
That would delay everything for a month . 
Well , there's other bids , said another trustee , one of the gentlemen of leisure , ignoring the president's sympathy , and hopeful now of a possible slice on his own account . 
What's the matter with McGaw's proposal ? There's not much difference in the price . 
Perhaps he would come down to the Grogan figure . 
Is Mr. McGaw here , or anybody who can speak for him ? Justice Rowan sat against the wall . 
The overzealous trustee had exactly expressed his own wishes and anxieties . 
He wanted McGaw's chances settled at once . 
If they failed , there was Rowan's own brother who might come in for the work , the justice sharing of course in the profits . 
In the absence of me client , said Rowan , looking about the room , and drawing in his breath with an important air , I suppose I can ripresint him . 
I think , however , that if your honorable boord will go on with the other business before you , Mr. McGaw will be on hand in half an hour himself . 
In the meantime I will hunt him up . 
I can hardly credit it . 
It is very seldom that a horse kicks a woman . 
Nobody having seconded this motion , the chair did not put it . 
The fact was that every man was afraid to move . 
The majority of the trustees , who favored McGaw , were in the dark as to what effect Tom's death would have upon the bids . 
The law might require readvertising and hence a new competition , and perhaps somebody much worse for them than Tom might turn up and take the work somebody living outside of the village . 
Then none of them would get a finger in the pie . 
Worse than all , the cutting of it might have to be referred to the corporation counsel , Judge Bowker . 
What his opinion would be was past finding out . 
He was beyond the reach of pulls , and followed the law to the letter . 
The minority a minority of two , the president and the veterinary surgeon began to distrust the spirit of McGaw's adherents . 
It looked to the president as if a deal were in the air . 
The Scotchman , practical , sober minded , sensible man as he was , had old fashioned ideas of honesty and fair play . 
If she's dead , that settles it but if she's alive , I will protest against anything being done about this matter for ten days . 
It won't take twenty minutes to find out meantime we can take up the unfinished business of the last meeting . 
One of the gentlemen of leisure seconded this motion it was carried unanimously , and this gentleman of leisure was himself appointed courier and left the room in a hurry . 
There's no use of my going , said the courier trustee , taking his seat . 
Grogan won't live an hour , if she ain't dead now . 
She had a sick horse that wanted looking after , and she went into the stable without a light , and he let drive , and broke her skull . 
She's got a gash the length of your hand wasn't that it , Mr. McGaw ? McGaw nodded his head . 
Yes that's about it , he said . 
The voice seemed to come from his stomach , it was so hollow . 
Did you see her , Mr. McGaw ? asked the Scotchman in a positive tone . 
They says the horse had blin' staggers . 
How do you know , then ? asked the Scotchman suspiciously . 
Who told you the horse kicked her ? Well , I dunno I think it wuz some un Dempsey looked at him and knit his brow . 
Don't you know enough of a horse to know he couldn't kick with blind staggers ? insisted the Scotchman . 
Does anybody know any of the facts connected with this dreadful accident to Mrs. Grogan ? asked the president . 
Have you heard anything , Mr. Quigg ? Mr. Quigg had heard absolutely nothing , and had not seen Mrs. Grogan for months . 
Mr. Crimmins was equally ignorant , and so were several other gentlemen . 
Here a voice came from the back of the room . 
Mason , sir , an hour ago , after he had attended Tom Grogan . 
He was on his way to Quarantine in his buggy . 
He said he left her insensible after dressin' the wound . 
He thought she might not live till mornin' . 
May I ask your name , sir ? asked the president in a courteous tone . 
I am yardmaster at the U. S. Lighthouse Depot . 
The title , and the calm way in which Lathers spoke , convinced the president and the room . 
Everybody realized that Tom's life hung by a thread . 
The Scotchman still had a lingering doubt . 
He also wished to clear up the blind staggers theory . 
Did he say how she was hurt ? asked the Scotchman . 
McGaw steadied himself with his hand and grasped the seat of his chair . 
The sweat was rolling from his face . 
He seemed afraid to look up , lest some other eye might catch his own and read his thoughts . 
If he had only seen Lathers come in ! Lathers's announcement , coupled with the Scotchman's well known knowledge of equine diseases discrediting the blind staggers theory , produced a profound sensation . 
Heads were put together , and low whispers were heard . 
Dempsey , Quigg , and Crimmins did not move a muscle . 
The Scotchman again broke the silence . 
It's not decent to serve a woman so and I think , too , it's illegal . 
I again move that the whole matter be laid upon the table , This motion was not put , nobody seconding it . 
The speech of the justice was seasoned with a brogue as delicate in flavor as the garlic in a Spanish salad . 
Mr. Prisident and Gintlemen of the Honorable Boord of Village Trustees , said the justice , throwing back his coat . 
The elaborate opening compelled attention at once . 
Such courtesies were too seldom heard in their deliberations , thought the members , as they lay back in their chairs to listen . 
Such acts in a law abidin' community like Rockville bring with them the deepest detistation and the profoundest sympathy . 
It was this sort of thing that made Rowan popular . 
Your honorable boord advertoised some time since for certain supplies needed for the growth and development of this most important of the villages of Staten Island . 
In this call it was most positively and clearly stated that the contract was to be awarded to the lowest risponsible bidder who gave the proper bonds . 
There was a burst of applause and great stamping of feet the tide of sympathy had changed . 
Rowan had perhaps won a few more votes . 
This pleased him evidently more than his hope of cutting the contract pie . 
McGaw began to regain some of his color and lose some of his nervousness . 
Rowan's speech had quieted him . 
The president gravely rapped for order . 
The Scotchman was on his feet in an instant . 
I have listened , he said , to the talk that Justice Rowan has given us . 
It's very fine and tonguey , but it smothers up the facts . 
You can't rob this woman Question ! question ! came from half a dozen throats . 
What's your pleasure , gentlemen ? asked the president , pounding with his gavel . 
I move , said the courier member , that the contract be awarded to Mr. Daniel McGaw as the lowest bidder , provided he can sign the contract to night with proper bonds . 
Is Mr. McGaw's bondsman present ? asked the president , rising . 
Justice Rowan rose , and bowed with the air of a foreign banker accepting a government loan . 
I have that honor , Mr. Prisident . 
Gentlemen , are you ready for the question ? asked the president . 
At this instant there was a slight commotion at the end of the hall . 
Half a dozen men nearest the door left their seats and crowded to the top of the staircase . 
Then came a voice outside Fall back don't block up the door ! Get back there ! The excitement was so great that the proceedings of the board were stopped . 
The throng parted , The men near the table stood still . 
An ominous silence suddenly prevailed . 
Daniel McGaw twisted his head , turned ghastly white , and would have fallen from his chair but for Dempsey . 
The deathly hush was unbroken . 
The men fell back with white , scared faces to let her pass . 
McGaw cowered in his chair . 
Dempsey's eyes glistened , a half sigh of relief escaping him . 
Crimmins had not moved the apparition stunned him . 
On she came , her eyes fixed on the president , till she reached the table . 
Then she steadied herself for a moment , took a roll of papers from her dress , and sank into a chair . 
Those outside the rail noiselessly mounted the benches and chairs , craning their necks . 
Every eye was fixed upon her . 
Slowly and carefully she unrolled the contract , spreading it out before her , picked up a pen from the table , and without a word wrote her name . 
Then she rose firmly , and walked steadily to the door . 
Just then a man entered within the rail and took her seat . 
It was her bondsman , Mr. Crane . 
XVI A FRIEND IN NEED Two days after Tom had signed the highway contract , Babcock sat in his private office in New York , opening his mail . 
In the outside room were half a dozen employees engineers and others awaiting their instructions . 
Tom's carts had hauled the stone . 
Tucked into the pile of letters heaped before him , Babcock's quick eye caught the corner of a telegram . 
It read as follows Mother hurt . 
For an instant he sat motionless , gazing at the yellow slip . 
Then he sprang to his feet . 
Thrusting his unopened correspondence into his pocket , he gave a few hurried instructions to his men and started for the ferry . 
Once on the boat , he began pacing the deck . 
Tom hurt ! he repeated to himself . 
Tom hurt ? How when what could have hurt her ? He had seen her at the sea wall , only three days before , rosy cheeked , magnificent in health and strength . 
What had happened ? At the St . 
George landing he jumped into a hack , hurrying the cabman . 
Jennie was watching for him at the garden gate . 
She said her mother was in the sitting room , and Gran'pop was with her . 
As they walked up the path she recounted rapidly the events of the past two days . 
Tom was on the lounge by the window , under the flowering plants , when Babcock entered . 
Across her forehead , covering the temples , two narrow bandages bound up her wound . 
At Babcock's step she opened her eyes , her bruised , discolored face breaking into a smile . 
Then , noting his evident anxiety , she threw the shawl from her shoulders and sat up . 
No , don't look so . 
It's nothin' I'll be all right in a day or two . 
I've been hurted before , but not so bad as this . 
I wouldn't have troubled ye , but Mr. Crane has gone West . 
It was kind and friendly o' ye to come I knew ye would . 
Babcock nodded to Pop , and sank into a chair . 
The shock of her appearance had completely unnerved him . 
Jennie has told me about it , he said in a tender , sympathetic tone . 
Who was mean enough to serve you in this way , Tom ? He called her Tom now , as the others did . 
Well , I won't say now . 
It may have been the horse , but I hardly think it , for I saw a face . 
All I remember clear is a layin' me hand on the mare's back . 
When I come to I was flat on the lounge . 
They had fixed me up , and Dr . 
Only the thick hood saved me . 
Carl and Cully searched the place , but nothin' could be found . 
Cully says he heard somebody a runnin' on the other side of the fence , but ye can't tell . 
Nobody keeps their heads in times like that . 
Have you been in bed ever since ? Babcock asked . 
In bed ! God rest ye ! I was down to the board meetin' two hours after , wid Mr. Crane , and signed the contract . 
Jennie and all of 'em wouldn't have it , and cried and went on , but I braved 'em all . 
I knew I had to go if I died for it . 
Mr. Crane had his buggy , so I didn't have to walk . 
The stairs was the worst . 
Once inside , I was all right . 
I only had to sign , an' come out again it didn't take a minute . 
Mr. Crane stayed and fixed the bonds wid the trustees , an' I come home wid Carl and Jennie . 
Then , turning to her father , she said , Gran'pop , will ye and Jennie go into the kitchen for a while ? I've some private business wid Mr. Babcock . 
When they were gone her whole manner changed . 
Will ye help me ? Help you , Tom ? You know I will , and with anything I've got . 
What is it ! he said earnestly , regaining his chair and drawing it closer . 
Has no one iver told ye about me Tom ? she asked , looking at him from under her eyebrows . 
No except that he was hurt or or out of his mind , maybe , and you couldn't bring him home . 
An' ye have heared nothin' more ? No , said Babcock , wondering at her anxious manner . 
He knew how true it was . 
Ye've wondered many a time , maybe , that I niver brought him home an' had him round wid me other poor cripple , Patsy them two togither . 
Her voice fell almost to a whisper . 
Or ye thought , maybe , it was mean and cruel in me that I kep' him a burden on the State , when I was able to care for him meself . 
Well , ye'll think so no more . 
Babcock began to see now why he had been sent for . 
His heart went out to her all the more . 
Tom , is your husband dead ? he asked , with a quiver in his voice . 
She never took her eyes from his face . 
Few people were ever tender with her they never seemed to think she needed it . 
She read this man's sincerity and sympathy in his eyes then she answered slowly He is , Mr. Babcock . 
When did he die ! Was it last night , Tom ? Listen to me fust , an' then I'll tell ye . 
Me Tom got worse an' worse , an' I saw him a failin' , an' one day Dr . 
I had got only as far as the gate on the street whin one of the men came a runnin' after me . 
I thought he had fainted , and ran back as fast as I could , but when I got me arms under him again he was dead . 
And all this seven years ago , Tom ? said Babcock in astonishment , sinking back in his chair . 
The tears were trickling through her fingers and falling on the coarse shawl . 
Yis seven years ago this June . 
I've niver told Pop yit . 
Nobody else would have cared we was strangers here . 
Whin I come home I wanted to die , but I said nothin' . 
She roused herself wearily , and wiped her eyes with the back of her hand . 
Why , Tom , this is nonsense . 
Who says so ? said Babcock earnestly , glad of any change of feeling to break the current of her thoughts . 
Dan McGaw an' Rowan says so . 
What's McGaw got to do with it ? He's out of the fight . 
Oh , ye don't know some men , Mr. Babcock . 
McGaw'll never stop fightin' while I live . 
An' I says to him , 'Dan McGaw , if I live twelve months , Tom Grogan'll be a richer man than he is now . 
I was a sittin' right here when I said it , wid a rag carpet on this floor , an' hardly any furniture in the room . 
He said more things , an' tried to make love to me , and I let drive and threw him out of me kitchen . 
Then all me trouble wid him began he's done everything to beat me since , and now maybe , after all , he'll down me . 
It all come up yisterday through McGaw meetin' Dr . 
Judge Bowker has the papers , an' it's all to be settled to morrow . 
But they can't take your contract away , said Babcock indignantly , no matter what Rowan says . 
Oh , it's not that it's not that . 
That's not what hurts me . 
I can git another contract . 
That's not what breaks me heart . 
But if they take me Tom's NAME from me , an' say I can't be Tom Grogan any more it's like robbin' me of my life . 
When I work on the docks I allus brace myself an' say' I'm doing just what Tom did many a day for me . 
Sinking to her knees , she threw her arms and head on the lounge , and burst into tears . 
Babcock rested his head on his hand , and looked on in silence . 
Here was something , it seemed to him , too sacred for him to touch even with his sympathy . 
But I thought maybe ye'd go wid me to Judge Bowker in the mornin' . 
Rowan an' all of 'em 'll be there , an' I'm no match for these lawyers . 
Perhaps ye'd speak to the judge for me . 
Babcock held out his hand . 
I knew ye would , an' I thank ye , she said , drying her eyes . 
Now unlock the door , an' let 'em in . 
Gran'pop hasn't slep' a night since I was hurted , an' Jennie goes round cryin' all the time , sayin' they 'll be a killin' me next . 
Then , rising to her feet , she called out in a cheery voice , as Babcock opened the door , Come in , Jennie come in Gran'pop . 
It's all over , child . 
Mr. Babcock's a going wid me in the mornin' . 
Niver fear we'll down 'em all yit . 
XVII A DANIEL COME TO JUDGMENT When Judge Bowker entered his office adjoining the village bank , Justice Rowan had already arrived . 
So had McGaw , Dempsey , Crimmins , Quigg , the president of the board , and one or two of the trustees . 
The judge had sent for McGaw and the president , and they had notified the others . 
McGaw sat next to Dempsey . 
Babcock and Tom were by the window , she listless and weary , he alert and watchful for the slightest point in her favor . 
She had on her brown dress , washed clean of the blood stains , and the silk hood , which better concealed the bruises . 
All her old fire and energy were gone . 
Babcock , although he did not betray his misgivings , was greatly worried over the outcome of McGaw's latest scheme . 
He wished in his secret heart that Tom had signed her own name to the contract . 
He was afraid so punctilious a man as the judge might decide against her . 
He had never seen him he only knew that no other judge in his district had so great a reputation for technical rulings . 
When the judge entered a small , gray haired , keen eyed man in a black suit , with gold spectacles , spotless linen , and clean shaven face Babcock's fears were confirmed . 
This man , he felt , would be legally exact , no matter who suffered by his decision . 
Rowan opened the case , the judge listening attentively , looking over his glasses . 
Police justices justices like Rowan did not count much with Judge Bowker , and then he never permitted any one to abuse a woman in his presence . 
The point you make is that Mrs. Grogan had no right to sign her name to a contract made out in the name of her dead husband . 
I do , your Honor , said Rowan , resuming his seat . 
Why did you sign it ? asked Judge Bowker , turning to Tom . 
He nodded assent , and then she answered I allus signed it so since he left me . 
There was a pleading , tender pathos in her words that startled Babcock . 
He could hardly believe the voice to be Tom's . 
The judge looked at her with a quick , penetrating glance , which broadened into an expression of kindly interest when he read her entire honesty in her face . 
Then he turned to the president of the board . 
When you awarded this contract , whom did you expect to do the work , Mrs. Grogan or her husband . 
Mrs. Grogan , of course . 
She has done her own work for years , answered the president . 
The judge tapped the arm of his chair with his pencil . 
The taps could be heard all over the room . 
Most men kept quiet in Bowker's presence , even men like Rowan . 
For some moments his Honor bent over the desk and carefully examined the signed contract spread out before him then he pushed it back , and glanced about the room . 
Is Mr. Crane , the bondsman , present ? Mr. Crane has gone West , sir , said Babcock , rising . 
I represent Mrs. Grogan in this matter . 
She is known everywhere as Tom Grogan . 
She has never had any other name in her business . 
Who else objects to this award ? said the judge calmly . 
Rowan sprang to his feet . 
The judge looked at him . 
Please sit down , Justice Rowan . 
Dempsey jumped from his chair . 
I'm opposed to it , yer Honor , an' so is all me fri'nds here . 
This woman has been invited into the Union , and treats us as if we was dogs . 
She Are you a bidder for this work ? asked the judge . 
No , sir but the Union has rights , and Please take your seat only bidders can be heard now . 
But who's to stand up for the rights of the laborin' man if You can , if you choose but not here . 
This is a question of evidence . 
Who's Bowker anyhow ? said Dempsey behind his hand to Quigg . 
No fraud is charged , and under the testimony none was intended . 
The law gives Mrs. Grogan the right to use any title she chooses in conducting her business her husband's name , or any other . 
The contract must stand as it is . 
Here the judge arose and entered his private office , shutting the door behind him . 
Tom had listened with eyes dilating , every nerve in her body at highest tension . 
She shed no tears , as other women might have done . 
Every fibre of her being seemed to be turned to steel . 
Then , forgetting the office , the still solemnity of the place even Babcock she walked straight up to McGaw , blocking his exit to the street door . 
Dan McGaw , there's a word I've got for ye before ye l'ave this place , an' I'm a going to say it to ye now before ivery man in this room . 
McGaw shrank back in alarm . 
Git out o' me way , or I'll Tom stepped closer , her eyes flashing , every word ringing clear . 
There was enough light for me to see . 
Look at this drawing back her hood , and showing the bandaged scar . 
McGaw seemed to shrivel up the crowd stood still in amazement . 
Now , I'll go on . 
Since that night in me kitchen ye 've tried to ruin me in ivery other way ye could . 
Ye better keep still till I get through , Dan McGaw . 
He might'a' been a dacent boy but for him . 
Crimmins turned pale and bit his lip . 
Even the judge , who had come out of his private room at the attack , listened eagerly . 
Ye've been a sneak an' a coward to serve a woman so who never harmed ye . 
Now I give ye fair warnin' , an' I want two or three other men in this room to listen if this don't stop , ye'll all be behint bars where ye belong . 
I mean you , too , Mr. Dempsey . 
As for you , Dan McGaw , if it warn't for yer wife Kate , who's a dacent woman , ye'd go to day . 
Now , one thing more , an' I'll let ye go . 
I've bought yer chattel mortgage of Mr. Crane that's past due , an' I can do wid it as I pl'ase . 
Once outside in the sunlight , she became herself again . 
The outburst had cleared her soul like a thunder clap . 
She felt as free as air . 
The secret that had weighed her down for years was off her mind . 
What she had whispered to her own heart she could now proclaim from the housetops . 
Even the law protected her . 
Babcock walked beside her , silent and grave . 
She seemed to him like some Joan with flaming sword . 
When they reached the road that led to her own house , her eyes fell upon Jennie and Carl . 
They had walked down behind them , and were waiting under the trees . 
There's one thing more ye can do for me , my friend , she said , turning to Babcock . 
All the old things Tom an' I did togither I can do by meself but it's new things like Carl an' Jennie that trouble me the new things I can't ask him about . 
Do ye see them two yonder ! Am I free to do for 'em as I would ? No ye needn't answer . 
I see it in yer face . 
Come here , child I want ye . 
For an instant she stood looking into their faces , her eyes brimming . 
Before the highway work was finished , McGaw was dead and Billy and Crimmins in Sing Sing . 
The label on the empty can , Quigg's volunteered testimony , and Judge Bowker's charge , convinced the jury . 
Quigg had quarreled with Crimmins and the committee , and took that way of getting even . 
When Tom heard the news , she left her teams standing in the road and went straight to McGaw's house . 
His widow sat on a broken chair in an almost empty room . 
Don't cry , Katy , said Tom , bending over her . 
Seems to me , ye've had a lot o' trouble since Dan was drowned . 
It was not all Billy's fault . 
It was Crimmins that put him up to it . 
But ye've one thing left , and that's yer boy Jack . 
Let me take him I'll make a man of him . 
Jack is still with her . 
Tom says he is the best man in her gang . 
