George Silverman's Explanation by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
They may serve , however , if I let them remain , to suggest how very difficult I find it to begin to explain my explanation . 
An uncouth phrase and yet I do not see my way to a better . 
SECOND CHAPTER IT happened in THIS wise But , looking at those words , and comparing them with my former opening , I find they are the self same words repeated . 
This is the more surprising to me , because I employ them in quite a new connection . 
THIRD CHAPTER NOT as yet directly aiming at how it came to pass , I will come upon it by degrees . 
The natural manner , after all , for God knows that is how it came upon me . 
My parents were in a miserable condition of life , and my infant home was a cellar in Preston . 
From this it will be seen that I was timid , and that the cellar steps were steep , and that the doorway was very low . 
Mother had the gripe and clutch of poverty upon her face , upon her figure , and not least of all upon her voice . 
, would feint and dodge from mother's pursuing grasp at my hair . 
A worldly little devil was mother's usual name for me . 
Sometimes they both went away seeking work and then I would be locked up in the cellar for a day or two at a time . 
I was at my worldliest then . 
At last a change came down into our cellar . 
The universal change came down even as low as that , so will it mount to any height on which a human creature can perch , and brought other changes with it . 
We had a heap of I don't know what foul litter in the darkest corner , which we called 'the bed . 
For three days mother lay upon it without getting up , and then began at times to laugh . 
If I had ever heard her laugh before , it had been so seldom that the strange sound frightened me . 
It frightened father too and we took it by turns to give her water . 
Then she began to move her head from side to side , and sing . 
After that , she getting no better , father fell a laughing and a singing and then there was only I to give them both water , and they both died . 
'Do you know your father and mother are both dead of fever ? asked a third of me severely . 
'I don't know what it is to be dead . 
I supposed it meant that , when the cup rattled against their teeth , and the water spilt over them . 
I am hungry and thirsty . 
That was all I had to say about it . 
I knew at the time they had a horror of me , but I couldn't help it . 
He came forward close to the vessel of smoking vinegar from which he sprinkled himself carefully , and me copiously . 
'He had a grandfather at Birmingham , this young boy , who is just dead too , said Mr. Hawkyard . 
The bystanders seemed to form an opinion of this gentleman much more favourable than their opinion of me . 
but what is to be done with him for the present ? He may be infected . 
'What is to be done with him ? He held some talk with the two officials . 
I could distinguish no word save 'Farm house . 
There was another sound several times repeated , which was wholly meaningless in my ears then , but which I knew afterwards to be 'Hoghton Towers . 
'Yes , said Mr. Hawkyard . 
'I think that sounds promising I think that sounds hopeful . 
As far off as you can . 
How do you feel ? I told him that I didn't feel cold , and didn't feel hungry , and didn't feel thirsty . 
That was the whole round of human feelings , as far as I knew , except the pain of being beaten . 
'Well , said he , 'you are going , George , to a healthy farm house to be purified . 
Keep in the air there as much as you can . 
Live an out of door life there , until you are fetched away . 
Behave well , and I'll put you to school O , yes ! I'll put you to school , though I'm not obligated to do it . 
I am a servant of the Lord , George and I have been a good servant to him , I have , these five and thirty years . 
The Lord has had a good servant in me , and he knows it . 
What I then supposed him to mean by this , I cannot imagine . 
It was enough for me to know , on that day in the ward , that the farmer's cart was waiting for me at the street corner . 
I was not slow to get into it for it was the first ride I ever had in my life . 
It made me sleepy , and I slept . 
Such a worldly little devil was I , that I took no thought who would bury father and mother , or where they would be buried , or when . 
The question whether the eating and drinking by day , and the covering by night , would be as good at the farm house as at the ward superseded those questions . 
To that time I had never had the faintest impression of duty . 
I had had no knowledge whatever that there was anything lovely in this life . 
It is equally the fact that I had never been alone , in the sense of holding unselfish converse with myself . 
I had been solitary often enough , but nothing better . 
Such was my condition when I sat down to my dinner that day , in the kitchen of the old farm house . 
FIFTH CHAPTER WHAT do I know of Hoghton Towers ? Very little for I have been gratefully unwilling to disturb my first impressions . 
Therein have I anticipated the answer . 
They were scuffling for some prey that was there and , when they started and hid themselves close together in the dark , I thought of the old life in the cellar . 
, and I tried to think about it . 
There was a girl of about my own age in the farm house family , and she sat opposite to me at the narrow table at meal times . 
It had come into my mind , at our first dinner , that she might take the fever from me . 
The thought had not disquieted me then . 
I had only speculated how she would look under the altered circumstances , and whether she would die . 
But it came into my mind now , that I might try to prevent her taking the fever by keeping away from her . 
I knew I should have but scrambling board if I did so much the less worldly and less devilish the deed would be , I thought . 
From that hour , I withdrew myself at early morning into secret corners of the ruined house , and remained hidden there until she went to bed . 
At first , when meals were ready , I used to hear them calling me and then my resolution weakened . 
But I strengthened it again by going farther off into the ruin , and getting out of hearing . 
I often watched for her at the dim windows and , when I saw that she was fresh and rosy , felt much happier . 
Out of this holding her in my thoughts , to the humanising of myself , I suppose some childish love arose within me . 
I felt , in some sort , dignified by the pride of protecting her , by the pride of making the sacrifice for her . 
As my heart swelled with that new feeling , it insensibly softened about mother and father . 
It seemed to have been frozen before , and now to be thawed . 
The old ruin and all the lovely things that haunted it were not sorrowful for me only , but sorrowful for mother and father as well . 
Therefore did I cry again , and often too . 
had but just gone out of the room . 
Seeing her ascending the opposite stairs , I stood still at the door . 
She had heard the clink of the latch , and looked round . 
Be sociable for once , George . 
'I am very sorry , miss , I answered 'but I but , no I can't come . 
'You are a disagreeable , ill humoured lad , she returned disdainfully 'and I ought not to have asked you . 
I shall never speak to you again . 
As I stood with my eyes fixed on the fire , after she was gone , I felt that the farmer bent his brows upon me . 
'Eh , lad ! said he 'Sylvy's right . 
You're as moody and broody a lad as never I set eyes on yet . 
put me to school , and told me to work my way . 
'You are all right , George , he said . 
and he'll prosper your schooling as a part of my reward . 
That's what HE'll do , George . 
He'll do it for me . 
From the first I could not like this familiar knowledge of the ways of the sublime , inscrutable Almighty , on Brother Hawkyard's part . 
As I grew a little wiser , and still a little wiser , I liked it less and less . 
His manner , too , of confirming himself in a parenthesis , as if , knowing himself , he doubted his own word , I found distasteful . 
I cannot tell how much these dislikes cost me for I had a dread that they were worldly . 
As time went on , I became a Foundation boy on a good foundation , and I cost Brother Hawkyard nothing . 
When I had worked my way so far , I worked yet harder , in the hope of ultimately getting a presentation to college and a fellowship . 
and what with much work and some weakness , I came again to be regarded that is , by my fellow students as unsocial . 
first , on a Sunday afternoon . 
He was by trade a drysalter . 
bore him a jealous grudge . 
, but that it was all one to me , because I knew the Lord would put into my mouth the words I wanted . 
'And he did put into my mouth the words I wanted . 
'Because I have been his faithful servant for five and thirty years , and because he knows it . 
For five and thirty years ! And he knows it , mind you ! I got those words that I wanted on account of my wages . 
I got 'em from the Lord , my fellow sinners . 
Down ! I said , Here's a heap of wages due let us have something down , on account . 
as that the Devil shall not be able to confuse it in your heads , which he would be overjoyed to do . 
And where's the proof ? sent ready made by the hand of the Lord . 
Why , there's one among us here now , that has got all the learning that can be crammed into him . 
I got him all the learning that could be crammed into him . 
'was a brother of ours . 
His worldly name was Parksop , and he was a brother of this brotherhood . 
Then the angels are NOT learned then they don't so much as know their alphabet . 
He said this with a dark smile , and then began to bellow . 
grandfather , appropriation of the orphan's house property , feigning to give in charity to the wronged one from whom we withheld his due and that class of sins . 
He ended with the petition , 'Give us peace ! which , speaking for myself , was very much needed after twenty minutes of his bellowing . 
They were sordid suspicions , without a shadow of proof . 
They were worthy to have originated in the unwholesome cellar . 
After getting these suspicions under my feet , I had been troubled by not being able to like Brother Hawkyard's manner , or his professed religion . 
It might serve as an implied vindication of him against any dark scandal from a rival brother and expounder , or from any other quarter . 
Accordingly , I wrote the document with much care . 
I may add with much feeling too for it affected me as I went on . 
It was a winter afternoon , when I tapped at the door of his little counting house , which was at the farther end of his long , low shop . 
, a shopman called to me from the counter that he was engaged . 
I thought this all the better for my purpose , and made bold to tap again . 
They were talking in a low tone , and money was passing for I heard it being counted out . 
'Who is it ? asked Brother Hawkyard , sharply . 
'George Silverman , I answered , holding the door open . 
'May I come in ? Both brothers seemed so astounded to see me that I felt shyer than usual . 
But they looked quite cadaverous in the early gaslight , and perhaps that accidental circumstance exaggerated the expression of their faces . 
'What is the matter ? asked Brother Hawkyard . 
'Ay ! what is the matter ? asked Brother Gimblet . 
'Nothing at all , I said , diffidently producing my document 'I am only the bearer of a letter from myself . 
'From yourself , George ? cried Brother Hawkyard . 
Brother Hawkyard then said , in a livelier strain , 'You must know , George , that Brother Gimblet and I are going to make our two businesses one . 
We are going into partnership . 
We are settling it now . 
V. ! said Brother Gimblet , with his right fist firmly clinched on his right leg . 
He did so and Brother Gimblet listened with a crabbed smile . 
'It was in a good hour that I came here , he said , wrinkling up his eyes . 
'It was in a good hour , likewise , that I was moved yesterday to depict for the terror of evil doers a character the direct opposite of Brother Hawkyard's . 
But it was the Lord that done it I felt him at it while I was perspiring . 
After that it was proposed by both of them that I should attend the congregation once more before my final departure . 
What my shy reserve would undergo , from being expressly preached at and prayed at , I knew beforehand . 
But I reflected that it would be for the last time , and that it might add to the weight of my letter . 
Since the reading of my letter , Brother Gimblet had been at intervals wiping one eye with an end of his spotted blue neckerchief , and grinning to himself . 
It was , however , a habit that brother had , to grin in an ugly manner even when expounding . 
, as being remarkably hideous . 
I left the two to settle their articles of partnership , and count money and I never saw them again but on the following Sunday . 
The prayer was to open the ceremonies the discourse was to come next . 
Brothers Hawkyard and Gimblet were both on the platform Brother Hawkyard on his knees at the table , unmusically ready to pray Brother Gimblet sitting against the wall , grinningly ready to preach . 
'Let us offer up the sacrifice of prayer , my brothers and sisters and fellow sinners . 
Yes but it was I who was the sacrifice . 
It was our poor , sinful , worldly minded brother here present who was wrestled for . 
The now opening career of this our unawakened brother might lead to his becoming a minister of what was called 'the church . 
That was what HE looked to . 
Not the chapel , Lord . 
No rectors , no vicars , no archdeacons , no bishops , no archbishops , in the chapel , but , O Lord ! many such in the church . 
Protect our sinful brother from his love of lucre . 
Cleanse from our unawakened brother's breast his sin of worldly mindedness . 
The prayer said infinitely more in words , but nothing more to any intelligible effect . 
the text , 'My kingdom is not of this world . 
Ah ! but whose was , my fellow sinners ? Whose ? Why , our brother's here present was . 
The only kingdom he had an idea of was of this world . 
What did the woman do when she lost the piece of money ? Went and looked for it . 
Go and look for it , true . 
There spake the prophets ! He must look for it in the right direction , or he couldn't find it . 
But he had turned his back upon the right direction , and he wouldn't find it . 
Don't doubt that ! Brother Gimblet then groaned and bellowed his way through my composition , and subsequently through an hour . 
SEVENTH CHAPTER MY timidity and my obscurity occasioned me to live a secluded life at college , and to be little known . 
No relative ever came to visit me , for I had no relative . 
No intimate friends broke in upon my studies , for I made no intimate friends . 
I supported myself on my scholarship , and read much . 
My college time was otherwise not so very different from my time at Hoghton Towers . 
In due sequence I took orders , was ordained , and began to look about me for employment . 
I must observe that I had taken a good degree , that I had succeeded in winning a good fellowship , and that my means were ample for my retired way of life . 
By this time I had read with several young men and the occupation increased my income , while it was highly interesting to me . 
I now come to the reason of my quoting that laudation of myself above given . 
Without such reason , to repeat it would have been mere boastfulness . 
Among those who had read with me was Mr. Fareway , second son of Lady Fareway , widow of Sir Gaston Fareway , baronet . 
This young gentleman's abilities were much above the average but he came of a rich family , and was idle and luxurious . 
He presented himself to me too late , and afterwards came to me too irregularly , to admit of my being of much service to him . 
In the end , I considered it my duty to dissuade him from going up for an examination which he could never pass and he left college without a degree . 
After his departure , Lady Fareway wrote to me , representing the justice of my returning half my fee , as I had been of so little use to her son . 
Said he , after the usual salutations had passed , 'Mr . 
Silverman , my mother is in town here , at the hotel , and wishes me to present you to her . 
I was not comfortable with strangers , and I dare say I betrayed that I was a little nervous or unwilling . 
'For , said he , without my having spoken , 'I think the interview may tend to the advancement of your prospects . 
It put me to the blush to think that I should be tempted by a worldly reason , and I rose immediately . 
Said Mr. Fareway , as we went along , 'Are you a good hand at business ? 'I think not , said I. Said Mr. Fareway then , 'My mother is . 
'Truly ? said I. 'Yes my mother is what is usually called a managing woman . 
Doesn't make a bad thing , for instance , even out of the spendthrift habits of my eldest brother abroad . 
In short , a managing woman . 
He had never spoken to me in confidence , and I was surprised by his doing so . 
I said I should respect his confidence , of course , and said no more on the delicate subject . 
We had but a little way to walk , and I was soon in his mother's company . 
He presented me , shook hands with me , and left us two to business . 
I saw in my Lady Fareway a handsome , well preserved lady of somewhat large stature , with a steady glare in her great round dark eyes that embarrassed me . 
Said my lady , 'I have heard from my son , Mr. Silverman , that you would be glad of some preferment in the church . 
I gave my lady to understand that was so . 
I gave my lady to understand that I had not been aware of this . 
Said my lady , 'So it is indeed I have two presentations , one to two hundred a year , one to six . 
Both livings are in our county , North Devonshire , as you probably know . 
Would you like it ? What with my lady's eyes , and what with the suddenness of this proposed gift , I was much confused . 
Said I , with my utmost earnestness , 'Thank you , Lady Fareway , thank you , thank you ! I should be deeply hurt if I thought I bore the character . 
'Naturally , said my lady . 
'Always detestable , but particularly in a clergyman . 
You have not said whether you will like the living ? With apologies for my remissness or indistinctness , I assured my lady that I accepted it most readily and gratefully . 
'The affair is concluded , said my lady 'concluded . 
You will find the duties very light , Mr. Silverman . 
Charming house charming little garden , orchard , and all that . 
You will be able to take pupils . 
By the bye ! No I will return to the word afterwards . 
What was I going to mention , when it put me out ? My lady stared at me , as if I knew . 
And that perplexed me afresh . 
Would Mr. Silverman also like to ? Or shall I ? I hastened to say that my poor help would be always at her ladyship's service . 
, 'in having to do with gentlemen who cannot endure an approach to the idea of being mercenary ! She shivered at the word . 
'And now as to the pupil . 
'The ? I was quite at a loss . 
Silverman , you have no idea what she is . 
She is , said my lady , laying her touch upon my coat sleeve , 'I do verily believe , the most extraordinary girl in this world . 
Already knows more Greek and Latin than Lady Jane Grey . 
And taught herself ! Has not yet , remember , derived a moment's advantage from Mr. Silverman's classical acquirements . 
'Adelina , said my lady , 'is my only daughter . 
My lady saw that I was troubled , and did me the honour to comply with my request . 
When I discovered that I loved her , how can I say ? In the first day ? in the first week ? in the first month ? Impossible to trace . 
And yet , comparing it with the far heavier burden that I afterwards took up , it does not seem to me now to have been very hard to bear . 
But later on , say , a year later on , when I made another discovery , then indeed my suffering and my struggle were strong . 
That discovery was that she loved me . 
Pride of family and pride of wealth put me as far off from her in my lady's eyes as if I had been some domesticated creature of another kind . 
But they could not put me farther from her than I put myself when I set my merits against hers . 
No ! Worldliness should not enter here at any cost . 
My lady had , in our first interview , unconsciously overstated the accommodation of my pretty house . 
There was room in it for only one pupil . 
He was a young gentleman near coming of age , very well connected , but what is called a poor relation . 
At this time he had entered into his second year with me . 
He was well looking , clever , energetic , enthusiastic bold in the best sense of the term , a thorough young Anglo Saxon . 
I resolved to bring these two together . 
NINTH CHAPTER SAID I , one night , when I had conquered myself , 'Mr . 
Granville , Mr. Granville Wharton his name was , 'I doubt if you have ever yet so much as seen Miss Fareway . 
'Well , sir , returned he , laughing , 'you see her so much yourself , that you hardly leave another fellow a chance of seeing her . 
'I am her tutor , you know , said I. And there the subject dropped for that time . 
But I so contrived as that they should come together shortly afterwards . 
It was quite an ordinary interview in the Fareway Park but they talked easily together for some time like takes to like , and they had many points of resemblance . 
Said Mr. Granville to me , when he and I sat at our supper that night , 'Miss Fareway is remarkably beautiful , sir , remarkably engaging . 
Don't you think so ? 'I think so , said I. And I stole a glance at him , and saw that he had reddened and was thoughtful . 
, and feigned to be more of a recluse and bookworm than I had really become , and gradually set up more and more of a fatherly manner towards Adelina . 
Moreover , in the matter of apparel I was equally mindful not that I had ever been dapper that way but that I was slovenly now . 
into a greater resemblance to myself in my solitary one strong aspect . 
, and entreated me that I would unite them together . 
Our preparation for what is to follow has endured , and shall endure , for unimaginable ages . 
I went up to the house , and found my lady in her ordinary business room . 
She happened to have an unusual amount of commissions to intrust to me that day and she had filled my hands with papers before I could originate a word . 
'My lady , I then began , as I stood beside her table . 
'Why , what's the matter ? she said quickly , looking up . 
'Not much , I would fain hope , after you shall have prepared yourself , and considered a little . 
'Prepared myself and considered a little ! You appear to have prepared YOURSELF but indifferently , anyhow , Mr. Silverman . 
This mighty scornfully , as I experienced my usual embarrassment under her stare . 
Said I , in self extenuation once for all , 'Lady Fareway , I have but to say for myself that I have tried to do my duty . 
'For yourself ? repeated my lady . 
'Then there are others concerned , I see . 
I married her this morning to Mr. Granville Wharton . 
She set her lips , looked more intently at me than ever , raised her right hand , and smote me hard upon the cheek . 
'Give me back those papers ! give me back those papers ! She tore them out of my hands , and tossed them on her table . 
He has too much singleness of purpose to be a match for this world's double dealing . 
George Silverman , licensed to marry , engaged to put him in possession of this girl ? You made good terms for yourself , whatever they were . 
He would stand a poor chance against your keenness . 
Bewildered , horrified , stunned by this cruel perversion , I could not speak . 
But I trust that I looked innocent , being so . 
I had my projects for my daughter projects for family connection projects for fortune . 
You have thwarted them , and overreached me but I am not one to be thwarted and overreached without retaliation . 
If you had not resigned it , I would have had you deprived of it . 
And though you have resigned it , you will not get quit of me as easily as you think for . 
I will pursue you with this story . 
I will make this nefarious conspiracy of yours , for money , known . 
You have made money by it , but you have at the same time made an enemy by it . 
YOU will take good care that the money sticks to you I will take good care that the enemy sticks to you . 
Then said I finally , 'Lady Fareway , I think my heart is broken . 
Until I came into this room just now , the possibility of such mean wickedness as you have imputed to me never dawned upon my thoughts . 
Your suspicions 'Suspicions ! Pah ! said she indignantly . 
'Your certainties , my lady , as you call them , your suspicions as I call them , are cruel , unjust , wholly devoid of foundation in fact . 
I can declare no more except that I have not acted for my own profit or my own pleasure . 
I have not in this proceeding considered myself . 
Once again , I think my heart is broken . 
If I have unwittingly done any wrong with a righteous motive , that is some penalty to pay . 
, almost suspecting that my voice had a repulsive sound , and that I was a repulsive object . 
There was a great stir made , the bishop was appealed to , I received a severe reprimand , and narrowly escaped suspension . 
For years a cloud hung over me , and my name was tarnished . 
But my heart did not break , if a broken heart involves death for I lived through it . 
They stood by me , Adelina and her husband , through it all . 
Those who had known me at college , and even most of those who had only known me there by reputation , stood by me too . 
Little by little , the belief widened that I was not capable of what was laid to my charge . 
At length I was presented to a college living in a sequestered place , and there I now pen my explanation . 
I pen it at my open window in the summer time , before me , lying in the churchyard , equal resting place for sound hearts , wounded hearts , and broken hearts . 
I pen it for the relief of my own mind , not foreseeing whether or no it will ever have a reader . 
