The History of The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire If you find any errors please feel free to notify me of them . 
I want to make this the best etext edition possible for both scholars and the general public . 
com are my email addresses for now . 
Please feel free to send me your comments and I hope you enjoy this . 
David Reed History Of The Decline And Fall Of The Roman Empire Edward Gibbon , Esq . 
With notes by the Rev . 
Introduction Preface By The Editor . 
The great work of Gibbon is indispensable to the student of history . 
The literature of Europe offers no substitute for The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire . 
It has obtained undisputed possession , as rightful occupant , of the vast period which it comprehends . 
This extent and harmony of design is unquestionably that which distinguishes the work of Gibbon from all other great historical compositions . 
He has first bridged the abyss between ancient and modern times , and connected together the two great worlds of history . 
The great advantage which the classical historians possess over those of modern times is in unity of plan , of course greatly facilitated by the narrower sphere to which their researches were confined . 
Natural unity confined their narrative almost to chronological order , the episodes were of rare occurrence and extremely brief . 
To the Roman historians the course was equally clear and defined . 
We feel that the unity and harmony of narrative , which shall comprehend this period of social disorganization , must be ascribed entirely to the skill and luminous disposition of the historian . 
In short , though distracted first by the two capitals , and afterwards by the formal partition of the empire , the extraordinary felicity of arrangement maintains an order and a regular progression . 
No writer has been more severely tried on this point than Gibbon . 
On the result of the trial , we may be permitted to summon competent witnesses before we deliver our own judgment . 
After having finished my labors , I allowed some time to elapse before I reviewed the whole . 
Many of his seeming errors are almost inevitable from the close condensation of his matter . 
From the immense range of his history , it was sometimes necessary to compress into a single sentence , a whole vague and diffuse page of a Byzantine chronicler . 
Perhaps something of importance may have thus escaped , and his expressions may not quite contain the whole substance of the passage from which they are taken . 
His limits , at times , compel him to sketch where that is the case , it is not fair to expect the full details of the finished picture . 
Gibbon's method of arrangement , though on the whole most favorable to the clear comprehension of the events , leads likewise to apparent inaccuracy . 
That which we expect to find in one part is reserved for another . 
The quotations of Gibbon have likewise been called in question I have , in general , been more inclined to admire their exactitude , than to complain of their indistinctness , or incompleteness . 
These observations apply more particularly to the accuracy and fidelity of the historian as to his facts his inferences , of course , are more liable to exception . 
It is almost impossible to trace the line between unfairness and unfaithfulness between intentional misrepresentation and undesigned false coloring . 
Christians , like M. Guizot and ourselves , will see some things , and some persons , in a different light from the historian of the Decline and Fall . 
We are thus naturally led to that great misrepresentation which pervades his history his false estimate of the nature and influence of Christianity . 
But on this subject some preliminary caution is necessary , lest that should be expected from a new edition , which it is impossible that it should completely accomplish . 
The former of these cautions will be briefly suggested in its proper place , but it may be as well to state it , here , somewhat more at length . 
It is in the Christian dispensation , as in the material world . 
In both it is as the great First Cause , that the Deity is most undeniably manifest . 
So Christianity proclaims its Divine Author chiefly in its first origin and development . 
Divest this passage of the latent sarcasm betrayed by the subsequent tone of the whole disquisition , and it might commence a Christian history written in the most Christian spirit of candor . 
This inextricable bias appears even to influence his manner of composition . 
These had grown to some extent , and seemed to him likely to be of use to others . 
The annotations of M. Guizot also appeared to him worthy of being better known to the English public than they were likely to be , as appended to the French translation . 
The chief works from which the editor has derived his materials are , I. The French translation , with notes by M. Guizot d edition , Paris , . 
The editor has translated almost all the notes of M. Guizot . 
The editor has not scrupled to transfer the notes of M. Guizot to the present work . 
The notes of M. Guizot are signed with the letter G. II . 
The German translation , with the notes of Wenck . 
Unfortunately this learned translator died , after having completed only the first volume the rest of the work was executed by a very inferior hand . 
It is not in our great libraries , the Museum or the Bodleian and he has never found any bookseller in London who has seen it . 
The new edition of Le Beau's Histoire du Bas Empire , with notes by M. St . 
Martin , and M. Brosset . 
That distinguished Armenian scholar , M. St . 
had added much information from Oriental writers , particularly from those of Armenia , as well as from more general sources . 
Many of his observations have been found as applicable to the work of Gibbon as to that of Le Beau . 
The editor has consulted the various answers made to Gibbon on the first appearance of his work he must confess , with little profit . 
The name of Milner stands higher with a certain class of readers , but will not carry much weight with the severe investigator of history . 
have been verified , and have been corrected by the latest and best editions of the authors . 
In this new edition , the text and the notes have been carefully revised , the latter by the editor . 
Some additional notes have been subjoined , distinguished by the signature M. . 
The first volume of the quarto , which contained the sixteen first chapters . 
This extraordinary revolution , which subjected Rome to the power of a Gothic conqueror , was completed about the beginning of the sixth century . 
As I have ventured , perhaps too hastily , to commit to the press a work which in every sense of the word , deserves the epithet of imperfect . 
With regard to the subsequent periods , though I may entertain some hopes , I dare not presume to give any assurances . 
The Author , as it frequently happens , took an inadequate measure of his growing work . 
The remainder of the first period has filled two volumes in quarto , being the third , fourth , fifth , and sixth volumes of the octavo edition . 
Bentinck Street , February , . 
P. S. The entire History , which is now published , of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire in the West , abundantly discharges my engagements with the Public . 
Perhaps their favorable opinion may encourage me to prosecute a work , which , however laborious it may seem , is the most agreeable occupation of my leisure hours . 
Bentinck Street , March , . 
But it is not my intention to expatiate with the same minuteness on the whole series of the Byzantine history . 
is connected with the revolutions of Modern Europe . 
From the seventh to the eleventh century , the obscure interval will be supplied by a concise narrative of such facts as may still appear either interesting or important . 
The first six volumes of the octavo edition . 
Bentinck Street , March , . 
Preface To The First Volume . 
Diligence and accuracy are the only merits which an historical writer may ascribe to himself if any merit , indeed , can be assumed from the performance of an indispensable duty . 
I may therefore be allowed to say , that I have carefully examined all the original materials that could illustrate the subject which I had undertaken to treat . 
At present I shall content myself with a single observation . 
But there is so much perplexity in the titles of the MSS . 
Preface To The Fourth Volume Of The Original Quarto Edition . 
I now discharge my promise , and complete my design , of writing the History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire , both in the West and the East . 
Since the publication of the first volume , twelve years have elapsed twelve years , according to my wish , of health , of leisure , and of perseverance . 
Robertson's Preface to his History of America . 
I shall soon revisit the banks of the Lake of Lausanne , a country which I have known and loved from my early youth . 
They shall hear all that I know myself , and all that I could reveal to the most intimate friend . 
The motives of action or silence are now equally balanced nor can I pronounce , in my most secret thoughts , on which side the scale will preponderate . 
To an active mind , indolence is more painful than labor and the first months of my liberty will be occupied and amused in the excursions of curiosity and taste . 
Caprice and accident may influence my choice but the dexterity of self love will contrive to applaud either active industry or philosophic repose . 
Downing Street , May , . 
P. S. I shall embrace this opportunity of introducing two verbal remarks , which have not conveniently offered themselves to my notice . 
As often as I use the definitions of beyond the Alps , the Rhine , the Danube , c . 
In proper names of foreign , and especially of Oriental origin , it should be always our aim to express , in our English version , a faithful copy of the original . 
In these , and in a thousand examples , the shades of distinction are often minute and I can feel , where I cannot explain , the motives of my choice . 
Chapter I The Extent Of The Empire In The Age Of The Antonines . 
The Extent And Military Force Of The Empire In The Age Of The Antonines . 
In the second century of the Christian Aera , the empire of Rome comprehended the fairest part of the earth , and the most civilized portion of mankind . 
The frontiers of that extensive monarchy were guarded by ancient renown and disciplined valor . 
The gentle but powerful influence of laws and manners had gradually cemented the union of the provinces . 
Their peaceful inhabitants enjoyed and abused the advantages of wealth and luxury . 
The image of a free constitution was preserved with decent reverence the Roman senate appeared to possess the sovereign authority , and devolved on the emperors all the executive powers of government . 
During a happy period of more than fourscore years , the public administration was conducted by the virtue and abilities of Nerva , Trajan , Hadrian , and the two Antonines . 
with the annotations of Reimar , who has collected all that Roman vanity has left upon the subject . 
The marble of Ancyra , on which Augustus recorded his own exploits , asserted that he compelled the Parthians to restore the ensigns of Crassus . 
His generals , in the early part of his reign , attempted the reduction of Ethiopia and Arabia Felix . 
They marched near a thousand miles to the south of the tropic but the heat of the climate soon repelled the invaders , and protected the un warlike natives of those sequestered regions . 
The northern countries of Europe scarcely deserved the expense and labor of conquest . 
On the death of that emperor , his testament was publicly read in the senate . 
have left us very curious details concerning these wars . 
The Romans made themselves masters of Mariaba , or Merab , a city of Arabia Felix , well known to the Orientals . 
They were arrived within three days' journey of the spice country , the rich object of their invasion . 
Note It is the city of Merab that the Arabs say was the residence of Belkis , queen of Saba , who desired to see Solomon . 
G. Compare Malte Brun , Geogr . 
Bonn , and see Gibbon , note . 
L. M. Note Two , according to Strabo . 
The detailed account of Strabo makes the invaders fail before Marsuabae this cannot be the same place as Mariaba . 
Ukert observes , that Aelius Gallus would not have failed for want of water before Mariaba . 
Either , therefore , they were different places , or Strabo is mistaken . 
Strabo , indeed , mentions Mariaba distinct from Marsuabae . 
Gibbon has followed Pliny in reckoning Mariaba among the conquests of Gallus . 
There can be little doubt that he is wrong , as Gallus did not approach the capital of Sabaea . 
Compare the note of the Oxford editor of Strabo . 
M. By the slaughter of Varus and his three legions . 
See the first book of the Annals of Tacitus . 
, and Velleius Paterculus , l . 
Augustus did not receive the melancholy news with all the temper and firmness that might have been expected from his character . 
, and the speech of Augustus himself , in Julian's Caesars . 
It receives great light from the learned notes of his French translator , M. Spanheim . 
Happily for the repose of mankind , the moderate system recommended by the wisdom of Augustus , was adopted by the fears and vices of his immediate successors . 
Germanicus , Suetonius Paulinus , and Agricola were checked and recalled in the course of their victories . 
Corbulo was put to death . 
Military merit , as it is admirably expressed by Tacitus , was , in the strictest sense of the word , imperatoria virtus . 
The only accession which the Roman empire received , during the first century of the Christian Aera , was the province of Britain . 
In this single instance , the successors of Caesar and Augustus were persuaded to follow the example of the former , rather than the precept of the latter . 
The various tribes of Britain possessed valor without conduct , and the love of freedom without the spirit of union . 
They took up arms with savage fierceness they laid them down , or turned them against each other , with wild inconsistency and while they fought singly , they were successively subdued . 
Caesar himself conceals that ignoble motive but it is mentioned by Suetonius , c . 
The British pearls proved , however , of little value , on account of their dark and livid color . 
that it was an inherent defect . 
Ego facilius crediderim , naturam margaritis deesse quam nobis avaritiam . 
Claudius , Nero , and Domitian . 
A hope is expressed by Pomponius Mela , l . 
that , by the success of the Roman arms , the island and its savage inhabitants would soon be better known . 
It is amusing enough to peruse such passages in the midst of London . 
See the admirable abridgment given by Tacitus , in the life of Agricola , and copiously , though perhaps not completely , illustrated by our own antiquarians , Camden and Horsley . 
The Irish writers , jealous of their national honor , are extremely provoked on this occasion , both with Tacitus and with Agricola . 
But the superior merit of Agricola soon occasioned his removal from the government of Britain and forever disappointed this rational , though extensive scheme of conquest . 
Before his departure , the prudent general had provided for security as well as for dominion . 
He had observed , that the island is almost divided into two unequal parts by the opposite gulfs , or , as they are now called , the Friths of Scotland . 
This wall of Antoninus , at a small distance beyond the modern cities of Edinburgh and Glasgow , was fixed as the limit of the Roman province . 
The native Caledonians preserved , in the northern extremity of the island , their wild independence , for which they were not less indebted to their poverty than to their valor . 
Their incursions were frequently repelled and chastised but their country was never subdued . 
See Horsley's Britannia Romana , l . 
Note Agricola fortified the line from Dumbarton to Edinburgh , consequently within Scotland . 
The emperor Hadrian , during his residence in Britain , about the year , caused a rampart of earth to be raised between Newcastle and Carlisle . 
Lastly , Septimius Severus caused a wall of stone to be built parallel to the rampart of Hadrian , and on the same locality . 
See John Warburton's Vallum Romanum , or the History and Antiquities of the Roman Wall . 
W. See likewise a good note on the Roman wall in Lingard's History of England , vol . 
the unviolated independence of his native country . 
and the uniform imagery of Ossian's Poems , which , according to every hypothesis , were composed by a native Caledonian . 
Such was the state of the Roman frontiers , and such the maxims of Imperial policy , from the death of Augustus to the accession of Trajan . 
That virtuous and active prince had received the education of a soldier , and possessed the talents of a general . 
The peaceful system of his predecessors was interrupted by scenes of war and conquest and the legions , after a long interval , beheld a military emperor at their head . 
To the strength and fierceness of barbarians they added a contempt for life , which was derived from a warm persuasion of the immortality and transmigration of the soul . 
The new province of Dacia , which formed a second exception to the precept of Augustus , was about thirteen hundred miles in circumference . 
Its natural boundaries were the Niester , the Teyss or Tibiscus , the Lower Danube , and the Euxine Sea . 
See Pliny's Panegyric , which seems founded on facts . 
Julian in the Caesars , with Spanheims observations . 
Julian in Caesaribus Eutropius , viii . 
See a Memoir of M. d'Anville , on the Province of Dacia , in the Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
The praises of Alexander , transmitted by a succession of poets and historians , had kindled a dangerous emulation in the mind of Trajan . 
Yet the success of Trajan , however transient , was rapid and specious . 
The degenerate Parthians , broken by intestine discord , fled before his arms . 
He descended the River Tigris in triumph , from the mountains of Armenia to the Persian Gulf . 
He enjoyed the honor of being the first , as he was the last , of the Roman generals , who ever navigated that remote sea . 
His fleets ravaged the coast of Arabia and Trajan vainly flattered himself that he was approaching towards the confines of India . 
Every day the astonished senate received the intelligence of new names and new nations , that acknowledged his sway . 
Trajan's sentiments are represented in a very just and lively manner in the Caesars of Julian . 
Eutropius and Sextus Rufus have endeavored to perpetuate the illusion . 
See a very sensible dissertation of M. Freret in the Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
Chapter I The Extent Of The Empire In The Age Of The Antonines . 
alone , among all the inferior deities , refused to yield his place to Jupiter himself . 
A favorable inference was drawn from his obstinacy , which was interpreted by the augurs as a sure presage that the boundaries of the Roman power would never recede . 
During many ages , the prediction , as it is usual , contributed to its own accomplishment . 
But though Terminus had resisted the Majesty of Jupiter , he submitted to the authority of the emperor Hadrian . 
The resignation of all the eastern conquests of Trajan was the first measure of his reign . 
Censure , which arraigns the public actions and the private motives of princes , has ascribed to envy , a conduct which might be attributed to the prudence and moderation of Hadrian . 
The various character of that emperor , capable , by turns , of the meanest and the most generous sentiments , may afford some color to the suspicion . 
See Livy , and Dionysius of Halicarnassus , under the reign of Tarquin . 
Augustin is highly delighted with the proof of the weakness of Terminus , and the vanity of the Augurs . 
See De Civitate Dei , iv . 
Note The turn of Gibbon's sentence is Augustin's Plus Hadrianum regem bominum , quam regem Deorum timuisse videatur . 
M See the Augustan History , p . 
, Jerome's Chronicle , and all the Epitomizers . 
It is somewhat surprising , that this memorable event should be omitted by Dion , or rather by Xiphilin . 
The martial and ambitious of spirit Trajan formed a very singular contrast with the moderation of his successor . 
The restless activity of Hadrian was not less remarkable when compared with the gentle repose of Antoninus Pius . 
If all our historians were lost , medals , inscriptions , and other monuments , would be sufficient to record the travels of Hadrian . 
Note The journeys of Hadrian are traced in a note on Solvet's translation of Hegewisch , Essai sur l'Epoque de Histoire Romaine la plus heureuse pour Genre Humain Paris , , p . 
M. See the Augustan History and the Epitomes . 
Notwithstanding this difference in their personal conduct , the general system of Augustus was equally adopted and uniformly pursued by Hadrian and by the two Antonines . 
They persisted in the design of maintaining the dignity of the empire , without attempting to enlarge its limits . 
The Roman name was revered among the most remote nations of the earth . 
We must , however , remember , that in the time of Hadrian , a rebellion of the Jews raged with religious fury , though only in a single province . 
mentions two necessary and successful wars , conducted by the generals of Pius st . 
Against the wandering Moors , who were driven into the solitudes of Atlas . 
Against the Brigantes of Britain , who had invaded the Roman province . 
are mentioned in the Augustan History , p . 
Appian of Alexandria , in the preface to his History of the Roman Wars . 
The terror of the Roman arms added weight and dignity to the moderation of the emperors . 
The military strength , which it had been sufficient for Hadrian and the elder Antoninus to display , was exerted against the Parthians and the Germans by the emperor Marcus . 
The military establishment of the Roman empire , which thus assured either its tranquillity or success , will now become the proper and important object of our attention . 
The Parthian victories gave birth to a crowd of contemptible historians , whose memory has been rescued from oblivion and exposed to ridicule , in a very lively piece of criticism of Lucian . 
But in proportion as the public freedom was lost in extent of conquest , war was gradually improved into an art , and degraded into a trade . 
The legions themselves , even at the time when they were recruited in the most distant provinces , were supposed to consist of Roman citizens . 
a very high qualification at a time when money was so scarce , that an ounce of silver was equivalent to seventy pounds weight of brass . 
The populace , excluded by the ancient constitution , were indiscriminately admitted by Marius . 
Note On the uncertainty of all these estimates , and the difficulty of fixing the relative value of brass and silver , compare Niebuhr , vol . 
According to Niebuhr , the relative disproportion in value , between the two metals , arose , in a great degree from the abundance of brass or copper . 
M. Compare also Dureau 'de la Malle Economie Politique des Romains especially L. l . 
See Vegetius , de Re Militari , l . 
On his first entrance into the service , an oath was administered to him with every circumstance of solemnity . 
The attachment of the Roman troops to their standards was inspired by the united influence of religion and of honor . 
These motives , which derived their strength from the imagination , were enforced by fears and hopes of a more substantial kind . 
From such laudable arts did the valor of the Imperial troops receive a degree of firmness and docility unattainable by the impetuous and irregular passions of barbarians . 
The oath of service and fidelity to the emperor was annually renewed by the troops on the first of January . 
Tacitus calls the Roman eagles , Bellorum Deos . 
They were placed in a chapel in the camp , and with the other deities received the religious worship of the troops . 
M. See Gronovius de Pecunia vetere , l . 
The emperor Domitian raised the annual stipend of the legionaries to twelve pieces of gold , which , in his time , was equivalent to about ten of our guineas . 
This pay , somewhat higher than our own , had been , and was afterwards , gradually increased , according to the progress of wealth and military government . 
or a proportionable allowance of land . 
The pay and advantages of the guards were , in general , about double those of the legions . 
Military exercises were the important and unremitted object of their discipline . 
It is not the purpose of this work to enter into any minute description of the Roman exercises . 
We shall only remark , that they comprehended whatever could add strength to the body , activity to the limbs , or grace to the motions . 
Exercitus ab exercitando , Varro de Lingua Latina , l . 
There is room for a very interesting work , which should lay open the connection between the languages and manners of nations . 
may cause regret that this task was not completed by that accomplished and universal scholar . 
and the rest of his first book . 
The Pyrrhic dance is extremely well illustrated by M. le Beau , in the Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
That learned academician , in a series of memoirs , has collected all the passages of the ancients that relate to the Roman legion . 
We are indebted to this Jew for some very curious details of Roman discipline . 
Life of Hadrian , in the Augustan History . 
Nine centuries of war had gradually introduced into the service many alterations and improvements . 
The constitution of the Imperial legion may be described in a few words . 
The heavy armed infantry , which composed its principal strength , was divided into ten cohorts , and fifty five companies , under the orders of a correspondent number of tribunes and centurions . 
The remaining nine cohorts consisted each of five hundred and fifty five and the whole body of legionary infantry amounted to six thousand one hundred men . 
This instrument was indeed much inferior to our modern fire arms since it was exhausted by a single discharge , at the distance of only ten or twelve paces . 
As soon as the Roman had darted his pilum , he drew his sword , and rushed forwards to close with the enemy . 
The legion was usually drawn up eight deep and the regular distance of three feet was left between the files as well as ranks . 
The soldier possessed a free space for his arms and motions , and sufficient intervals were allowed , through which seasonable reenforcements might be introduced to the relief of the exhausted combatants . 
The tactics of the Greeks and Macedonians were formed on very different principles . 
The strength of the phalanx depended on sixteen ranks of long pikes , wedged together in the closest array . 
But it was soon discovered by reflection , as well as by the event , that the strength of the phalanx was unable to contend with the activity of the legion . 
See an admirable digression on the Roman discipline , in the sixth book of his History . 
Vegetius de Re Militari , l . 
Vegetius de Re Militari , l . 
In the purer age of Caesar and Cicero , the word miles was almost confined to the infantry . 
Under the lower empire , and the times of chivalry , it was appropriated almost as exclusively to the men at arms , who fought on horseback . 
the steel point of the pilum seems to have been much longer . 
In the time of Vegetius , it was reduced to a foot , or even nine inches . 
I have chosen a medium . 
For the legionary arms , see Lipsius de Militia Romana , l . 
See the beautiful comparison of Virgil , Georgic ii . 
M. Guichard , Memoires Militaires , tom . 
, and Nouveaux Memoires , tom . 
, has treated the subject like a scholar and an officer . 
With the true partiality of a Greek , Arrian rather chose to describe the phalanx , of which he had read , than the legions which he had commanded . 
Trajan and Hadrian formed their cavalry from the same provinces , and the same class of their subjects , which recruited the ranks of the legion . 
The horses were bred , for the most part , in Spain or Cappadocia . 
The Roman troopers despised the complete armor with which the cavalry of the East was encumbered . 
Their more useful arms consisted in a helmet , an oblong shield , light boots , and a coat of mail . 
A javelin , and a long broad sword , were their principal weapons of offence . 
The use of lances and of iron maces they seem to have borrowed from the barbarians . 
de Re Militari , l . 
His positive testimony , which might be supported by circumstantial evidence , ought surely to silence those critics who refuse the Imperial legion its proper body of cavalry . 
M. See Livy almost throughout , particularly xlii . 
The true sense of that very curious passage was first discovered and illustrated by M. de Beaufort , Republique Romaine , l . 
As in the instance of Horace and Agricola . 
This appears to have been a defect in the Roman discipline which Hadrian endeavored to remedy by ascertaining the legal age of a tribune . 
Note These details are not altogether accurate . 
of some superior officer , and were there formed for duty . 
Thus Julius Caesar , though sprung from a great family , served first as contubernalis under the praetor , M. Thermus , and later under Servilius the Isaurian . 
The example of Horace , which Gibbon adduces to prove that young knights were made tribunes immediately on entering the service , proves nothing . 
Moreover , when the poet was made tribune , Brutus , whose army was nearly entirely composed of Orientals , gave this title to all the Romans of consideration who joined him . 
The emperors were still less difficult in their choice the number of tribunes was augmented the title and honors were conferred on persons whom they wished to attack to the court . 
Augustus conferred on the sons of senators , sometimes the tribunate , sometimes the command of a squadron . 
The abuses that arose caused by the edict of Hadrian , which fixed the age at which that honor could be attained . 
W. and G. Agricola , though already invested with the title of tribune , was contubernalis in Britain with Suetonius Paulinus . 
The safety and honor of the empire was principally intrusted to the legions , but the policy of Rome condescended to adopt every useful instrument of war . 
Considerable levies were regularly made among the provincials , who had not yet deserved the honorable distinction of Romans . 
Many dependent princes and communities , dispersed round the frontiers , were permitted , for a while , to hold their freedom and security by the tenure of military service . 
Even select troops of hostile barbarians were frequently compelled or persuaded to consume their dangerous valor in remote climates , and for the benefit of the state . 
Nor was the legion destitute of what , in modern language , would be styled a train of artillery . 
Such , in particular , was the state of the Batavians . 
Marcus Antoninus obliged the vanquished Quadi and Marcomanni to supply him with a large body of troops , which he immediately sent into Britain . 
Those who fix a regular proportion of as many foot , and twice as many horse , confound the auxiliaries of the emperors with the Italian allies of the republic . 
Arrian , in his order of march and battle against the Alani . 
He prefers them in many respects to our modern cannon and mortars . 
We may observe , that the use of them in the field gradually became more prevalent , in proportion as personal valor and military skill declined with the Roman empire . 
When men were no longer found , their place was supplied by machines . 
Chapter I The Extent Of The Empire In The Age Of The Antonines . 
The camp of a Roman legion presented the appearance of a fortified city . 
As soon as the space was marked out , the pioneers carefully levelled the ground , and removed every impediment that might interrupt its perfect regularity . 
This important labor was performed by the hands of the legionaries themselves to whom the use of the spade and the pickaxe was no less familiar than that of the sword or pilum . 
Active valor may often be the present of nature but such patient diligence can be the fruit only of habit and discipline . 
For the Roman Castrametation , see Polybius , l . 
with Lipsius de Militia Romana , Joseph . 
, and Memoires de Guichard , tom . 
Whenever the trumpet gave the signal of departure , the camp was almost instantly broke up , and the troops fell into their ranks without delay or confusion . 
Besides their arms , which the legendaries scarcely considered as an encumbrance , they were laden with their kitchen furniture , the instruments of fortification , and the provision of many days . 
Under this weight , which would oppress the delicacy of a modern soldier , they were trained by a regular step to advance , in about six hours , near twenty miles . 
On the appearance of an enemy , they threw aside their baggage , and by easy and rapid evolutions converted the column of march into an order of battle . 
See Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
See those evolutions admirably well explained by M. Guichard Nouveaux Memoires , tom . 
If , in the consideration of their armies , we pass from their discipline to their numbers , we shall not find it easy to define them with any tolerable accuracy . 
As their stations , for the most part , remained fixed and permanent , we may venture to describe the distribution of the troops . 
Three legions were sufficient for Britain . 
The defence of the Euphrates was intrusted to eight legions , six of whom were planted in Syria , and the other two in Cappadocia . 
Even Italy was not left destitute of a military force . 
Above twenty thousand chosen soldiers , distinguished by the titles of City Cohorts and Praetorian Guards , watched over the safety of the monarch and the capital . 
I have endeavored to fix on the proper medium between these two periods . 
See likewise Lipsius de Magnitudine Romana , l . 
The navy maintained by the emperors might seem inadequate to their greatness but it was fully sufficient for every useful purpose of government . 
The policy of the emperors was directed only to preserve the peaceful dominion of that sea , and to protect the commerce of their subjects . 
over the lofty but unwieldy castles of his rival . 
The Romans tried to disguise , by the pretence of religious awe their ignorance and terror . 
And yet , if we may credit Orosius , these monstrous castles were no more than ten feet above the water , vi . 
See Lipsius , de Magnitud . 
The sixteen last chapters of Vegetius relate to naval affairs . 
Voltaire , Siecle de Louis XIV . 
It must , however , be remembered , that France still feels that extraordinary effort . 
We have attempted to explain the spirit which moderated , and the strength which supported , the power of Hadrian and the Antonines . 
We shall now endeavor , with clearness and precision , to describe the provinces once united under their sway , but , at present , divided into so many independent and hostile states . 
That great peninsula , at present so unequally divided between two sovereigns , was distributed by Augustus into three provinces , Lusitania , Baetica , and Tarraconensis . 
The confines of Grenada and Andalusia correspond with those of ancient Baetica . 
Of the native barbarians , the Celtiberians were the most powerful , as the Cantabrians and Asturians proved the most obstinate . 
Confident in the strength of their mountains , they were the last who submitted to the arms of Rome , and the first who threw off the yoke of the Arabs . 
It is natural enough to suppose , that Arragon is derived from Tarraconensis , and several moderns who have written in Latin use those words as synonymous . 
See d'Anville , Geographie du Moyen Age , p . 
Ancient Gaul , as it contained the whole country between the Pyrenees , the Alps , the Rhine , and the Ocean , was of greater extent than modern France . 
The sea coast of the Mediterranean , Languedoc , Provence , and Dauphine , received their provincial appellation from the colony of Narbonne . 
The government of Aquitaine was extended from the Pyrenees to the Loire . 
The country between the Loire and the Seine was styled the Celtic Gaul , and soon borrowed a new denomination from the celebrated colony of Lugdunum , or Lyons . 
Such , under the reign of the Antonines , were the six provinces of Gaul the Narbonnese , Aquitaine , the Celtic , or Lyonnese , the Belgic , and the two Germanies . 
But Plutarch and Appian increase the number of tribes to three or four hundred . 
We have already had occasion to mention the conquest of Britain , and to fix the boundary of the Roman Province in this island . 
It comprehended all England , Wales , and the Lowlands of Scotland , as far as the Friths of Dumbarton and Edinburgh . 
As far as we can either trace or credit the resemblance of manners and language , Spain , Gaul , and Britain were peopled by the same hardy race of savages . 
Before they yielded to the Roman arms , they often disputed the field , and often renewed the contest . 
Whittaker's History of Manchester , vol . 
Before the Roman conquest , the country which is now called Lombardy , was not considered as a part of Italy . 
The Ligurians dwelt on the rocky coast which now forms the republic of Genoa . 
Venice was yet unborn but the territories of that state , which lie to the east of the Adige , were inhabited by the Venetians . 
On that celebrated ground the first consuls deserved triumphs , their successors adorned villas , and their posterity have erected convents . 
We may remark , that when Augustus divided Italy into eleven regions , the little province of Istria was annexed to that seat of Roman sovereignty . 
The Italian Veneti , though often confounded with the Gauls , were more probably of Illyrian origin . 
See M. Freret , Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
Note Or Liburnian , according to Niebuhr . 
M. See Maffei Verona illustrata , l . 
Note Add Niebuhr , vol . 
, and Otfried Muller , die Etrusker , which contains much that is known , and much that is conjectured , about this remarkable people . 
Also Micali , Storia degli antichi popoli Italiani . 
Florence , M. The first contrast was observed by the ancients . 
The second must strike every modern traveller . 
follows the division of Italy by Augustus . 
The European provinces of Rome were protected by the course of the Rhine and the Danube . 
Tournefort , Voyages en Grece et Asie Mineure , lettre xviii . 
The name of Illyricum originally belonged to the sea coast of the Adriatic , and was gradually extended by the Romans from the Alps to the Euxine Sea . 
See Severini Pannonia , l . 
In their original state of independence , their fierce inhabitants were intimately connected . 
Under the Roman government they were frequently united , and they still remain the patrimony of a single family . 
They now contain the residence of a German prince , who styles himself Emperor of the Romans , and form the centre , as well as strength , of the Austrian power . 
Dalmatia , to which the name of Illyricum more properly belonged , was a long , but narrow tract , between the Save and the Adriatic . 
The best part of the sea coast , which still retains its ancient appellation , is a province of the Venetian state , and the seat of the little republic of Ragusa . 
A Venetian traveller , the Abbate Fortis , has lately given us some account of those very obscure countries . 
But the geography and antiquities of the western Illyricum can be expected only from the munificence of the emperor , its sovereign . 
After the Danube had received the waters of the Teyss and the Save , it acquired , at least among the Greeks , the name of Ister . 
It formerly divided Maesia and Dacia , the latter of which , as we have already seen , was a conquest of Trajan , and the only province beyond the river . 
The Save rises near the confines of Istria , and was considered by the more early Greeks as the principal stream of the Danube . 
Such was the state of Europe under the Roman emperors . 
The provinces of Asia , without excepting the transient conquests of Trajan , are all comprehended within the limits of the Turkish power . 
But , instead of following the arbitrary divisions of despotism and ignorance , it will be safer for us , as well as more agreeable , to observe the indelible characters of nature . 
The name of Asia Minor is attributed with some propriety to the peninsula , which , confined betwixt the Euxine and the Mediterranean , advances from the Euphrates towards Europe . 
The most extensive and flourishing district , westward of Mount Taurus and the River Halys , was dignified by the Romans with the exclusive title of Asia . 
The kingdoms of Bithynia and Pontus possessed the northern side of the peninsula from Constantinople to Trebizond . 
Budzak , Crim Tartary , Circassia , and Mingrelia , are the modern appellations of those savage countries . 
See the Periplus of Arrian . 
He examined the coasts of the Euxine , when he was governor of Cappadocia . 
Phoenicia and Palestine were sometimes annexed to , and sometimes separated from , the jurisdiction of Syria . 
The former of these was a narrow and rocky coast the latter was a territory scarcely superior to Wales , either in fertility or extent . 
Yet Phoenicia and Palestine will forever live in the memory of mankind since America , as well as Europe , has received letters from the one , and religion from the other . 
A sandy desert , alike destitute of wood and water , skirts along the doubtful confine of Syria , from the Euphrates to the Red Sea . 
This comparison is exaggerated , with the intention , no doubt , of attacking the authority of the Bible , which boasts of the fertility of Palestine . 
and the present state of the country . 
Finally , his testimony is contradicted and refuted by that of other ancient authors , and by medals . 
Tacitus says , in speaking of Palestine , The inhabitants are healthy and robust the rains moderate the soil fertile . 
See also the historian Josephus , Hist . 
The Saracens thought the same , and were afraid that Omar . 
when he went to Jerusalem , charmed with the fertility of the soil and the purity of the air , would never return to Medina . 
The importance attached by the Romans to the conquest of Palestine , and the obstacles they encountered , prove also the richness and population of the country . 
Other medals also indicate this fertility for instance , that of Herod holding a bunch of grapes , and that of the young Agrippa displaying fruit . 
G. The Abbe Guenee , in his Lettres de quelques Juifs a Mons . 
de Voltaire , has exhausted the subject of the fertility of Palestine for Voltaire had likewise indulged in sarcasm on this subject . 
In his Vindication , he first established the correctness of his measurement of Palestine , which he estimates as square English miles , while Wales is about . 
As to fertility , he proceeds in the following dexterously composed and splendid passage The emperor Frederick II . 
The districts which border on Arabia partake of the sandy quality of the adjacent desert . 
These disadvantages , which now operate in their fullest extent , were formerly corrected by the labors of a numerous people , and the active protection of a wise government . 
The breed of cattle was encouraged in those parts which were not adapted for tillage , and almost every spot was compelled to yield some production for the use of the inhabitants . 
Pater ispe colendi Haud facilem esse viam voluit , primusque par artem Movit agros curis acuens mortalia corda , Nec torpere gravi passus sua Regna veterno . 
But Gibbon has here eluded the question about the land flowing with milk and honey . 
He is describing Judaea only , without comprehending Galilee , or the rich pastures beyond the Jordan , even now proverbial for their flocks and herds . 
The following is believed to be a fair statement The extraordinary fertility of the whole country must be taken into the account . 
Even in the present day , the wars and misgovernment of ages have not exhausted the natural richness of the soil . 
Galilee , says Malte Brun , would be a paradise were it inhabited by an industrious people under an enlightened government . 
No land could be less dependent on foreign importation it bore within itself every thing that could be necessary for the subsistence and comfort of a simple agricultural people . 
Directly the rains ceased , the grain ripened with still greater rapidity , and was gathered in before the end of May . 
The summer months were dry and very hot , but the nights cool and refreshed by copious dews . 
In September , the vintage was gathered . 
Grain of all kinds , wheat , barley , millet , zea , and other sorts , grew in abundance the wheat commonly yielded thirty for one . 
Great quantity of honey was collected . 
The balm tree , which produced the opobalsamum , a great object of trade , was probably introduced from Arabia , in the time of Solomon . 
It flourished about Jericho and in Gilead . 
M. The progress of religion is well known . 
The use of letter was introduced among the savages of Europe about fifteen hundred years before Christ and the Europeans carried them to America about fifteen centuries after the Christian Aera . 
But in a period of three thousand years , the Phoenician alphabet received considerable alterations , as it passed through the hands of the Greeks and Romans . 
The geographers of antiquity have frequently hesitated to what portion of the globe they should ascribe Egypt . 
A Roman praefect was seated on the splendid throne of the Ptolemies and the iron sceptre of the Mamelukes is now in the hands of a Turkish pacha . 
Ptolemy and Strabo , with the modern geographers , fix the Isthmus of Suez as the boundary of Asia and Africa . 
The French editor has a long and unnecessary note on the History of Cyrene . 
For the present state of that coast and country , the volume of Captain Beechey is full of interesting details . 
Egypt , now an independent and improving kingdom , appears , under the enterprising rule of Mahommed Ali , likely to revenge its former oppression upon the decrepit power of the Turkish empire . 
M. This note was written in . 
The future destiny of Egypt is an important problem , only to be solved by time . 
This observation will also apply to the new French colony in Algiers . 
The eastern division was considered by the Romans as the more peculiar and proper province of Africa . 
Till the arrival of the Phoenician colonies , that fertile country was inhabited by the Libyans , the most savage of mankind . 
Under the immediate jurisdiction of Carthage , it became the centre of commerce and empire but the republic of Carthage is now degenerated into the feeble and disorderly states of Tripoli and Tunis . 
are very unlike a solitary mountain which rears its head into the clouds , and seems to support the heavens . 
See Buffon , Histoire Naturelle , tom . 
Histoire des Voyages , tom . 
M. de Voltaire , tom . 
, unsupported by either fact or probability , has generously bestowed the Canary Islands on the Roman empire . 
The whole extent of the Mediterranean Sea , its coasts and its islands , were comprised within the Roman dominion . 
It is easier to deplore the fate , than to describe the actual condition , of Corsica . 
! Two Italian sovereigns assume a regal title from Sardinia and Sicily . 
! ! Minorca was lost to Great Britain in . 
M. ! The gallant struggles of the Corsicans for their independence , under Paoli , were brought to a close in the year . 
This volume was published in . 
See Botta , Storia d'Italia , vol . 
M. ! ! Malta , it need scarcely be said , is now in the possession of the English . 
We have not , however , thought it necessary to notice every change in the political state of the world , since the time of Gibbon . 
M This long enumeration of provinces , whose broken fragments have formed so many powerful kingdoms , might almost induce us to forgive the vanity or ignorance of the ancients . 
But the temper , as well as knowledge , of a modern historian , require a more sober and accurate language . 
des Grands Chemins , l . 
, , , , a very useful collection . 
See Templeman's Survey of the Globe but I distrust both the Doctor's learning and his maps . 
Chapter II The Internal Prosperity In The Age Of The Antonines . 
Part I. Of The Union And Internal Prosperity Of The Roman Empire , In The Age Of The Antonines . 
It is not alone by the rapidity , or extent of conquest , that we should estimate the greatness of Rome . 
The sovereign of the Russian deserts commands a larger portion of the globe . 
In the seventh summer after his passage of the Hellespont , Alexander erected the Macedonian trophies on the banks of the Hyphasis . 
But the firm edifice of Roman power was raised and preserved by the wisdom of ages . 
The obedient provinces of Trajan and the Antonines were united by laws , and adorned by arts . 
They might occasionally suffer from the partial abuse of delegated authority but the general principle of government was wise , simple , and beneficent . 
They enjoyed the religion of their ancestors , whilst in civil honors and advantages they were exalted , by just degrees , to an equality with their conquerors . 
They were erected about the midway between Lahor and Delhi . 
The conquests of Alexander in Hindostan were confined to the Punjab , a country watered by the five great streams of the Indus . 
G. The five rivers were , . 
The Hydaspes , now the Chelum , Behni , or Bedusta , . 
The Acesines , the Chenab , . 
Hydraotes , the Ravey , or Iraoty , . 
Hyphasis , the Beyah , . 
the Sutledj , known first to the Greeks in the time of Ptolemy . 
Vincent , Commerce of Anc . 
, and the valuable memoir of Lieut . 
Burnes , Journal of London Geogr . 
, with the travels of that very able writer . 
Compare Gibbon's own note , c . 
for G. See M. de Guignes , Histoire des Huns , l . 
And thus toleration produced not only mutual indulgence , but even religious concord . 
The superstition of the people was not imbittered by any mixture of theological rancor nor was it confined by the chains of any speculative system . 
The devout polytheist , though fondly attached to his national rites , admitted with implicit faith the different religions of the earth . 
The thin texture of the Pagan mythology was interwoven with various but not discordant materials . 
The visible powers of nature , the planets , and the elements were the same throughout the universe . 
The invisible governors of the moral world were inevitably cast in a similar mould of fiction and allegory . 
Such was the mild spirit of antiquity , that the nations were less attentive to the difference , than to the resemblance , of their religious worship . 
The elegant mythology of Homer gave a beautiful , and almost a regular form , to the polytheism of the ancient world . 
There is not any writer who describes in so lively a manner as Herodotus the true genius of polytheism . 
The best commentary may be found in Mr. Hume's Natural History of Religion and the best contrast in Bossuet's Universal History . 
The boasted tolerance of polytheism did not rest upon the respect due from society to the freedom of individual opinion . 
Sur la Religion , v . 
But intolerance was clearly the theory both of the Greek and Roman law . 
The subject is more fully considered in another place . 
Note There is a curious coincidence between Gibbon's expressions and those of the newly recovered De Republica of Cicero , though the argument is rather the converse , lib . 
M. See , for instance , Caesar de Bell . 
Within a century or two , the Gauls themselves applied to their gods the names of Mercury , Mars , Apollo , c . 
The philosophers of Greece deduced their morals from the nature of man , rather than from that of God . 
They meditated , however , on the Divine Nature , as a very curious and important speculation and in the profound inquiry , they displayed the strength and weakness of the human understanding . 
Of the four most celebrated schools , the Stoics and the Platonists endeavored to reconcile the jaring interests of reason and piety . 
The admirable work of Cicero de Natura Deorum is the best clew we have to guide us through the dark and profound abyss . 
He represents with candor , and confutes with subtlety , the opinions of the philosophers . 
I do not pretend to assert , that , in this irreligious age , the natural terrors of superstition , dreams , omens , apparitions , c . 
, had lost their efficacy . 
Notwithstanding the fashionable irreligion which prevailed in the age of the Antonines , both the interest of the priests and the credulity of the people were sufficiently respected . 
In their writings and conversation , the philosophers of antiquity asserted the independent dignity of reason but they resigned their actions to the commands of law and of custom . 
Reasoners of such a temper were scarcely inclined to wrangle about their respective modes of faith , or of worship . 
Socrates , Epicurus , Cicero , and Plutarch always inculcated a decent reverence for the religion of their own country , and of mankind . 
The devotion of Epicurus was assiduous and exemplary . 
It is not easy to conceive from what motives a spirit of persecution could introduce itself into the Roman councils . 
The magistrates could not be actuated by a blind , though honest bigotry , since the magistrates were themselves philosophers and the schools of Athens had given laws to the senate . 
They could not be impelled by ambition or avarice , as the temporal and ecclesiastical powers were united in the same hands . 
The pontiffs were chosen among the most illustrious of the senators and the office of Supreme Pontiff was constantly exercised by the emperors themselves . 
They knew and valued the advantages of religion , as it is connected with civil government . 
They encouraged the public festivals which humanize the manners of the people . 
The province of Gaul seems , and indeed only seems , an exception to this universal toleration . 
laments that in his time this apprehension had lost much of its effect . 
See the fate of Syracuse , Tarentum , Ambracia , Corinth , c . 
and the usual practice of governors , in the viiith Satire of Juvenal . 
Pelloutier , Histoire des Celtes , tom . 
The Egyptian superstition , of all the most contemptible and abject , was frequently prohibited the temples of Serapis and Isis demolished , and their worshippers banished from Rome and Italy . 
But the zeal of fanaticism prevailed over the cold and feeble efforts of policy . 
The exiles returned , the proselytes multiplied , the temples were restored with increasing splendor , and Isis and Serapis at length assumed their place among the Roman Deities . 
Nor was this indulgence a departure from the old maxims of government . 
Rome gradually became the common temple of her subjects and the freedom of the city was bestowed on all the gods of mankind . 
Yet the worship of foreign gods at Rome was only guarantied to the natives of those countries from whence they came . 
The Romans administered the priestly offices only to the gods of their fathers . 
Gibbon , throughout the whole preceding sketch of the opinions of the Romans and their subjects , has shown through what causes they were free from religious hatred and its consequences . 
and that of his successor , till the justice of Tiberius was provoked to some acts of severity . 
Note See , in the pictures from the walls of Pompeii , the representation of an Isiac temple and worship . 
Vestiges of Egyptian worship have been traced in Gaul , and , I am informed , recently in Britain , in excavations at York . 
M. ! Gibbon here blends into one , two events , distant a hundred and sixty six years from each other . 
seized the axe , to give the first blow . 
Gibbon attribute this circumstance to the second demolition , which took place in the year and which he considers as the first . 
I am inclined to attribute their establishment to the devotion of the Flavian family . 
He gives us a form of evocation . 
Minutius Faelix in Octavio , p . 
The narrow policy of preserving , without any foreign mixture , the pure blood of the ancient citizens , had checked the fortune , and hastened the ruin , of Athens and Sparta . 
During the most flourishing aera of the Athenian commonwealth , the number of citizens gradually decreased from about thirty to twenty one thousand . 
When the allies of Rome claimed an equal share of honors and privileges , the senate indeed preferred the chance of arms to an ignominious concession . 
Under a democratical government , the citizens exercise the powers of sovereignty and those powers will be first abused , and afterwards lost , if they are committed to an unwieldy multitude . 
The Orbis Romanus of the learned Spanheim is a complete history of the progressive admission of Latium , Italy , and the provinces , to the freedom of Rome . 
Fynes Clinton , Essay in Fasti Hel lenici , vol . 
M. See a very accurate collection of the numbers of each Lustrum in M. de Beaufort , Republique Romaine , l . 
and he establishes the principle that the census comprehended all the confederate cities which had the right of Isopolity . 
Maecenas had advised him to declare , by one edict , all his subjects citizens . 
But we may justly suspect that the historian Dion was the author of a counsel so much adapted to the practice of his own age , and so little to that of Augustus . 
Chapter II The Internal Prosperity In The Age Of The Antonines . 
Till the privileges of Romans had been progressively extended to all the inhabitants of the empire , an important distinction was preserved between Italy and the provinces . 
The former was esteemed the centre of public unity , and the firm basis of the constitution . 
Italy claimed the birth , or at least the residence , of the emperors and the senate . 
The estates of the Italians were exempt from taxes , their persons from the arbitrary jurisdiction of governors . 
Their municipal corporations , formed after the perfect model of the capital , were intrusted , under the immediate eye of the supreme power , with the execution of the laws . 
From the foot of the Alps to the extremity of Calabria , all the natives of Italy were born citizens of Rome . 
The republic gloried in her generous policy , and was frequently rewarded by the merit and services of her adopted sons . 
Had she always confined the distinction of Romans to the ancient families within the walls of the city , that immortal name would have been deprived of some of its noblest ornaments . 
The senators were obliged to have one third of their own landed property in Italy . 
The qualification was reduced by Marcus to one fourth . 
Since the reign of Trajan , Italy had sunk nearer to the level of the provinces . 
It may be doubted whether the municipal government of the cities was not the old Italian constitution rather than a transcript from that of Rome . 
The free government of the cities , observes Savigny , was the leading characteristic of Italy . 
Geschichte des Romischen Rechts , i . 
G. M. The first part of the Verona Illustrata of the Marquis Maffei gives the clearest and most comprehensive view of the state of Italy under the Caesars . 
Note Compare Denina , Revol . 
were destitute of any public force , or constitutional freedom . 
The free states and cities which had embraced the cause of Rome were rewarded with a nominal alliance , and insensibly sunk into real servitude . 
The public authority was every where exercised by the ministers of the senate and of the emperors , and that authority was absolute , and without control . 
! But the same salutary maxims of government , which had secured the peace and obedience of Italy were extended to the most distant conquests . 
The Romans condescended to restore the names of those assemblies , when they could no longer be dangerous . 
They are frequently mentioned by Caesar . 
The Abbe Dubos attempts , with very little success , to prove that the assemblies of Gaul were continued under the emperors . 
Histoire de l'Etablissement de la Monarchie Francoise , l . 
! This is , perhaps , rather overstated . 
Most cities retained the choice of their municipal officers some retained valuable privileges Athens , for instance , in form was still a confederate city . 
These privileges , indeed , depended entirely on the arbitrary will of the emperor , who revoked or restored them according to his caprice . 
See Walther Geschichte les Romischen Rechts , i . 
an admirable summary of the Roman constitutional history . 
M. Wheresoever the Roman conquers , he inhabits , is a very just observation of Seneca , confirmed by history and experience . 
These voluntary exiles were engaged , for the most part , in the occupations of commerce , agriculture , and the farm of the revenue . 
The right of Latium , as it was called , conferred on the cities to which it had been granted , a more partial favor . 
The grandsons of the Gauls , who had besieged Julius Caesar in Alcsia , commanded legions , governed provinces , and were admitted into the senate of Rome . 
Their ambition , instead of disturbing the tranquillity of the state , was intimately connected with its safety and greatness . 
Memnon apud Photium , c . 
Plutarch and Dion Cassius swell the massacre to , citizens but I should esteem the smaller number to be more than sufficient . 
and nine in Britain , of which London , Colchester , Lincoln , Chester , Gloucester , and Bath still remain considerable cities . 
The Emperor Hadrian expressed his surprise , that the cities of Utica , Gades , and Italica , which already enjoyed the rights of Municipia , should solicit the title of colonies . 
Their example , however , became fashionable , and the empire was filled with honorary colonies . 
See Spanheim , de Usu Numismatum Dissertat . 
The right of Latium conferred an exemption from the government of the Roman praefect . 
Strabo states this distinctly , l . 
See also Walther , p . 
M Spanheim , Orbis Roman . 
The western countries were civilized by the same hands which subdued them . 
As soon as the barbarians were reconciled to obedience , their minds were open to any new impressions of knowledge and politeness . 
Education and study insensibly inspired the natives of those countries with the sentiments of Romans and Italy gave fashions , as well as laws , to her Latin provincials . 
The situation of the Greeks was very different from that of the barbarians . 
The former had been long since civilized and corrupted . 
They had too much taste to relinquish their language , and too much vanity to adopt any foreign institutions . 
Nor was the influence of the Grecian language and sentiments confined to the narrow limits of that once celebrated country . 
Their empire , by the progress of colonies and conquest , had been diffused from the Adriatic to the Euphrates and the Nile . 
Asia was covered with Greek cities , and the long reign of the Macedonian kings had introduced a silent revolution into Syria and Egypt . 
Such was the general division of the Roman empire into the Latin and Greek languages . 
The slothful effeminacy of the former exposed them to the contempt , the sullen ferociousness of the latter excited the aversion , of the conquerors . 
de Civitate Dei , xix Lipsius de Pronunciatione Linguae Latinae , c . 
Apuleius and Augustin will answer for Africa Strabo for Spain and Gaul Tacitus , in the life of Agricola , for Britain and Velleius Paterculus , for Pannonia . 
To them we may add the language of the Inscriptions . 
Note Mr. Hallam contests this assertion as regards Britain . 
It merely asserts the progress of Latin studies among the higher orders . 
Probably it was a kind of court language , and that of public affairs and prevailed in the Roman colonies . 
M. The Celtic was preserved in the mountains of Wales , Cornwall , and Armorica . 
Austin's congregations were strangers to the Punic . 
Spain alone produced Columella , the Senecas , Lucan , Martial , and Quintilian . 
There is not , I believe , from Dionysius to Libanus , a single Greek critic who mentions Virgil or Horace . 
They seem ignorant that the Romans had any good writers . 
how much the use of the Syriac and Egyptian languages was still preserved . 
The first instance happened under the reign of Septimius Severus . 
It is a just though trite observation , that victorious Rome was herself subdued by the arts of Greece . 
Those immortal writers who still command the admiration of modern Europe , soon became the favorite object of study and imitation in Italy and the western provinces . 
But the elegant amusements of the Romans were not suffered to interfere with their sound maxims of policy . 
The two languages exercised at the same time their separate jurisdiction throughout the empire the former , as the natural idiom of science the latter , as the legal dialect of public transactions . 
See Valerius Maximus , l . 
The emperor Claudius disfranchised an eminent Grecian for not understanding Latin . 
He was probably in some public office . 
Note Causes seem to have been pleaded , even in the senate , in both languages . 
M It was by such institutions that the nations of the empire insensibly melted away into the Roman name and people . 
But there still remained , in the centre of every province and of every family , an unhappy condition of men who endured the weight , without sharing the benefits , of society . 
In the free states of antiquity , the domestic slaves were exposed to the wanton rigor of despotism . 
The perfect settlement of the Roman empire was preceded by ages of violence and rapine . 
In their numerous families , and particularly in their country estates , they encouraged the marriage of their slaves . 
! The sentiments of nature , the habits of education , and the possession of a dependent species of property , contributed to alleviate the hardships of servitude . 
The jurisdiction of life and death over the slaves , a power long exercised and often abused , was taken out of private hands , and reserved to the magistrates alone . 
The subterraneous prisons were abolished and , upon a just complaint of intolerable treatment , the injured slave obtained either his deliverance , or a less cruel master . 
It was this which rendered the wars so sanguinary , and the battles so obstinate . 
I shall oppose successively some passages to the reflections of Gibbon . 
The reader will see , not without interest , the truths which Gibbon appears to have mistaken or voluntarily neglected , developed by one of the best of modern historians . 
It is important to call them to mind here , in order to establish the facts and their consequences with accuracy . 
I shall more than once have occasion to employ , for this purpose , the discourse of Robertson . 
Hence proceeded the fierce and desperate spirit with which wars were carried on among ancient nations . 
Secure , in every event , of personal liberty , the resistance of the vanquished became less obstinate , and the triumph of the victor less cruel . 
G. In the camp of Lucullus , an ox sold for a drachma , and a slave for four drachmae , or about three shillings . 
Note Above , prisoners were taken in the Jewish war . 
According to a tradition preserved by S. Jerom , after the insurrection in the time of Hadrian , they were sold as cheap as horse . 
Compare Blair on Roman Slavery , p . 
M. , and Dureau de la blalle , Economie Politique des Romains , l . 
and argued from extraordinary and exceptional cases . 
The following is the example we shall see whether the word severe is here in its place . 
At the time in which L. Domitius was praetor in Sicily , a slave killed a wild boar of extraordinary size . 
The praetor , struck by the dexterity and courage of the man , desired to see him . 
This may appear harsh , nor do I give any opinion on the subject . 
He endeavors to extenuate all that is appalling in the condition and treatment of the slaves he would make us consider those cruelties as possibly justified by necessity . 
It would be easy to accumulate the most frightful , the most agonizing details , of the manner in which the Romans treated their slaves whole works have been devoted to the description . 
I content myself with referring to them . 
Upon establishing despotic government in the Roman empire , domestic tyranny rose , in a short time , to an astonishing height . 
In that rank soil , every vice , which power nourishes in the great , or oppression engenders in the mean , thrived and grew up apace . 
It is not the authority of any single detached precept in the gospel , but the spirit and genius of the Christian religion , more powerful than any particular command . 
which hath abolished the practice of slavery throughout the world . 
The children of slaves were the property of their master , who could dispose of or alienate them like the rest of his property . 
G. I have retained the whole of M. Guizot's note , though , in his zeal for the invaluable blessings of freedom and Christianity , he has done Gibbon injustice . 
The condition of the slaves was undoubtedly improved under the emperors . 
is , I believe , supported by the history of all ages and nations . 
of Pliny , and of Plutarch . 
The latter influence of Christianity is admitted by Gibbon himself . 
The subject of Roman slavery has recently been investigated with great diligence in a very modest but valuable volume , by Wm . 
while on the subject , to refer to the most splendid passage extant of Mr. Pitt's eloquence , the description of the Roman slave dealer . 
on the shores of Britain , condemning the island to irreclaimable barbarism , as a perpetual and prolific nursery of slaves ? Speeches , vol . 
Gibbon , it should be added , was one of the first and most consistent opponents of the African slave trade . 
M. See a remarkable instance of severity in Cicero in Verrem , v . 
notwithstanding this , luxury made a greater number of slaves in demand . 
The increase in their population was not sufficient , and recourse was had to the purchase of slaves , which was made even in the provinces of the East subject to the Romans . 
It is , moreover , known that slavery is a state little favorable to population . 
is decisive in favor of the rapid multiplication of the agricultural slaves it is confirmed by the numbers engaged in the servile wars . 
Compare also Blair , p . 
M. See in Gruter , and the other collectors , a great number of inscriptions addressed by slaves to their wives , children , fellow servants , masters , c . 
They are all most probably of the Imperial age . 
See the Augustan History , and a Dissertation of M. de Burigny , in the xxxvth volume of the Academy of Inscriptions , upon the Roman slaves . 
The consequences of this maxim would have prostituted the privileges of the Roman city to a mean and promiscuous multitude . 
Even these chosen freedmen obtained no more than the private rights of citizens , and were rigorously excluded from civil or military honors . 
Without destroying the distinction of ranks , a distant prospect of freedom and honors was presented , even to those whom pride and prejudice almost disdained to number among the human species . 
See another Dissertation of M. de Burigny , in the xxxviith volume , on the Roman freedmen . 
It was once proposed to discriminate the slaves by a peculiar habit but it was justly apprehended that there might be some danger in acquainting them with their own numbers . 
The youths of a promising genius were instructed in the arts and sciences , and their price was ascertained by the degree of their skill and talents . 
Almost every profession , either liberal or mechanical , might be found in the household of an opulent senator . 
The ministers of pomp and sensuality were multiplied beyond the conception of modern luxury . 
To confirm the general observation , and to display the multitude of slaves , we might allege a variety of particular instances . 
It was discovered , on a very melancholy occasion , that four hundred slaves were maintained in a single palace of Rome . 
Seneca de Clementia , l . 
The original is much stronger , Quantum periculum immineret si servi nostri numerare nos coepissent . 
The latter boldly asserts , that he knew very many Romans who possessed , not for use , but ostentation , ten and even twenty thousand slaves . 
In Paris there are not more than , domestics of every sort , and not a twelfth part of the inhabitants . 
Messange , Recherches sui la Population , p . 
A learned slave sold for many hundred pounds sterling Atticus always bred and taught them himself . 
, on the prices of slaves . 
M. Many of the Roman physicians were slaves . 
Their ranks and offices are very copiously enumerated by Pignorius de Servis . 
They were all executed for not preventing their master's murder . 
Note The remarkable speech of Cassius shows the proud feelings of the Roman aristocracy on this subject . 
The multitude of subjects of an inferior rank was uncertain and fluctuating . 
According to Robertson , there were twice as many slaves as free citizens . 
estimates three slaves to one freeman , between the conquest of Greece , B. C. , and the reign of Alexander Severus , A. D. , . 
The proportion was probably larger in Italy than in the provinces . 
asserts it to be a gross error in Gibbon to reckon the number of slaves equal to that of the free population . 
at the commencement of the empire , must not be taken as the groundwork of calculations for the whole Roman world . 
The latter part of my note was intended to suggest this consideration . 
The latifundia , says Pliny , had ruined Italy , and had begun to ruin the provinces . 
I would reduce rather than increase the proportion of the slave population . 
The work , however , of M. Dureau de la Malle is very curious and full on some of the minuter points of Roman statistics . 
The whole would amount to one hundred and five , or one hundred and seven millions . 
See Voltaire , de l'Histoire Generale . 
Note The present population of Europe is estimated at , , . 
Dureau de la Malle , in his Economie Politique des Romains , liv . 
to , and M. Zumpt , in a dissertation printed in the Transactions of the Berlin Academy , . 
M. Dureau de la Malle confines his inquiry almost entirely to the city of Rome , and Roman Italy . 
Though this probably was Gibbon's opinion , he has not stated it so peremptorily as asserted by Mr. Zumpt . 
It had before been expressly laid down by Hume , and his statement was controverted by Wallace and by Malthus . 
less populous in the age of the Antonines , than in that of Romulus and Zumpt acknowledges that we have no satisfactory knowledge of the state of Italy at that early age . 
The arguments and the authorities of Zumpt are equally conclusive as to the decline of population in Greece . 
may , I think , fairly compensate for any deduction to be made from Gibbon's general estimate on account of Greece and Italy . 
Gibbon himself acknowledges his own estimate to be vague and conjectural and I may venture to recommend the dissertation of Zumpt as deserving respectful consideration . 
Chapter II The Internal Prosperity In The Age Of The Antonines . 
Domestic peace and union were the natural consequences of the moderate and comprehensive policy embraced by the Romans . 
But the obedience of the Roman world was uniform , voluntary , and permanent . 
The legions were destined to serve against the public enemy , and the civil magistrate seldom required the aid of a military force . 
In this state of general security , the leisure , as well as opulence , both of the prince and people , were devoted to improve and to adorn the Roman empire . 
The oration of Agrippa , or rather of the historian , is a fine picture of the Roman empire . 
Many of those works were erected at private expense , and almost all were intended for public benefit . 
Augustus was accustomed to boast that he had found his capital of brick , and that he had left it of marble . 
The strict economy of Vespasian was the source of his magnificence . 
The works of Trajan bear the stamp of his genius . 
The public monuments with which Hadrian adorned every province of the empire , were executed not only by his orders , but under his immediate inspection . 
He was himself an artist and he loved the arts , as they conduced to the glory of the monarch . 
They were encouraged by the Antonines , as they contributed to the happiness of the people . 
But if the emperors were the first , they were not the only architects of their dominions . 
The inscription of the stupendous bridge of Alcantara attests that it was thrown over the Tagus by the contribution of a few Lusitanian communities . 
It was the duty of the proconsul to supply their deficiencies , to direct their taste , and sometimes to moderate their emulation . 
Among a crowd of these private benefactors , we may select Herodes Atticus , an Athenian citizen , who lived in the age of the Antonines . 
Whatever might be the motive of his conduct , his magnificence would have been worthy of the greatest kings . 
The example of the sovereign was imitated by his ministers and generals and his friend Agrippa left behind him the immortal monument of the Pantheon . 
See Theatre Of Marcellus Augustus built in Rome the theatre of Marcellus . 
See Maffei , Veroni Illustrata , l . 
See the xth book of Pliny's Epistles . 
He mentions the following works carried on at the expense of the cities . 
The family of Herod , at least after it had been favored by fortune , was lineally descended from Cimon and Miltiades , Theseus and Cecrops , Aeacus and Jupiter . 
But the posterity of so many gods and heroes was fallen into the most abject state . 
According to the rigor of the law , the emperor might have asserted his claim , and the prudent Atticus prevented , by a frank confession , the officiousness of informers . 
But the equitable Nerva , who then filled the throne , refused to accept any part of it , and commanded him to use , without scruple , the present of fortune . 
The cautious Athenian still insisted , that the treasure was too considerable for a subject , and that he knew not how to use it . 
Abuse it then , replied the monarch , with a good natured peevishness for it is your own . 
for the construction of a new aqueduct . 
Hadrian afterwards made a very equitable regulation , which divided all treasure trove between the right of property and that of discovery . 
The ablest preceptors of Greece and Asia had been invited by liberal rewards to direct the education of young Herod . 
The monuments of his genius have perished some considerable ruins still preserve the fame of his taste and munificence modern travellers have measured the remains of the stadium which he constructed at Athens . 
Notwithstanding the repairs bestowed on that ancient edifice by a king of Cappadocia , it was again fallen to decay . 
Herod restored its ancient beauty and magnificence . 
Nor was the liberality of that illustrious citizen confined to the walls of Athens . 
Aulus Gellius , in Noct . 
The Odeum served for the rehearsal of new comedies as well as tragedies they were read or repeated , before representation , without music or decorations , c . 
No piece could be represented in the theatre if it had not been previously approved by judges for this purpose . 
The king of Cappadocia who restored the Odeum , which had been burnt by Sylla , was Araobarzanes . 
See Martini , Dissertation on the Odeons of the Ancients , Leipsic . 
The life of Herodes , in the xxxth volume of the Memoirs of the Academy of Inscriptions . 
It was in works of national honor and benefit , that the most virtuous of the emperors affected to display their magnificence . 
At a small distance from thence was situated the Forum of Trajan . 
This column , which still subsists in its ancient beauty , exhibited an exact representation of the Dacian victories of its founder . 
The veteran soldier contemplated the story of his own campaigns , and by an easy illusion of national vanity , the peaceful citizen associated himself to the honors of the triumph . 
The last mentioned of those edifices deserve our peculiar attention . 
The boldness of the enterprise , the solidity of the execution , and the uses to which they were subservient , rank the aqueducts among the noblest monuments of Roman genius and power . 
It is particularly remarked of Athens by Dicaearchus , de Statu Graeciae , p . 
, inter Geographos Minores , edit . 
Donatus de Roma Vetere , l . 
Nardini Roma Antica , l . 
, , , and a Ms. description of ancient Rome , by Bernardus Oricellarius , or Rucellai , of which I obtained a copy from the library of the Canon Ricardi at Florence . 
Two celebrated pictures of Timanthes and of Protogenes are mentioned by Pliny , as in the Temple of Peace and the Laocoon was found in the baths of Titus . 
It was there that every day the artists and the learned of Rome assembled and it is on the site of this temple that a multitude of antiques have been dug up . 
See notes of Reimar on Dion Cassius , lxvi . 
W. Montfaucon l'Antiquite Expliquee , tom . 
Fabretti has composed a very learned treatise on the aqueducts of Rome . 
We have computed the inhabitants , and contemplated the public works , of the Roman empire . 
The observation of the number and greatness of its cities will serve to confirm the former , and to multiply the latter . 
The petty states of Latium were contained within the metropolis of the empire , by whose superior influence they had been attracted . 
The splendor of Verona may be traced in its remains yet Verona was less celebrated than Aquileia or Padua , Milan or Ravenna . 
York was the seat of government London was already enriched by commerce and Bath was celebrated for the salutary effects of its medicinal waters . 
With regard to Spain , that country flourished as a province , and has declined as a kingdom . 
The provinces of the East present the contrast of Roman magnificence with Turkish barbarism . 
The ruins of antiquity scattered over uncultivated fields , and ascribed , by ignorance to the power of magic , scarcely afford a shelter to the oppressed peasant or wandering Arab . 
Under the reign of the Caesars , the proper Asia alone contained five hundred populous cities , enriched with all the gifts of nature , and adorned with all the refinements of art . 
Eleven cities of Asia had once disputed the honor of dedicating a temple of Tiberius , and their respective merits were examined by the senate . 
Four of them were immediately rejected as unequal to the burden and among these was Laodicea , whose splendor is still displayed in its ruins . 
He lived in the time of Alexander Severus . 
Vix seminario exiguo militum relicto servitia Romana ab solitudine vindicant , Liv . 
The number , however , is mentioned , and should be received with a degree of latitude . 
Note Without doubt no reliance can be placed on this passage of Josephus . 
The historian makes Agrippa give advice to the Jews , as to the power of the Romans and the speech is full of declamation which can furnish no conclusions to history . 
while there are nearly twelve hundred cities . 
places these eight legions on the Rhine , as Tacitus does . 
The list seems authentic and accurate the division of the provinces , and the different condition of the cities , are minutely distinguished . 
I have taken some pains in consulting and comparing modern travellers , with regard to the fate of those eleven cities of Asia . 
Seven or eight are totally destroyed Hypaepe , Tralles , Laodicea , Hium , Halicarnassus , Miletus , Ephesus , and we may add Sardes . 
But even at Smyrna , while the Franks have maintained a commerce , the Turks have ruined the arts . 
See a very exact and pleasing description of the ruins of Laodicea , in Chandler's Travels through Asia Minor , p . 
He had studied at Tralles . 
See a Dissertation of M. de Boze , Mem . 
Aristides pronounced an oration , which is still extant , to recommend concord to the rival cities . 
Chapter II The Internal Prosperity In The Age Of The Antonines . 
Mountains were perforated , and bold arches thrown over the broadest and most rapid streams . 
Such was the solid construction of the Roman highways , whose firmness has not entirely yielded to the effort of fifteen centuries . 
The advantage of receiving the earliest intelligence , and of conveying their orders with celerity , induced the emperors to establish , throughout their extensive dominions , the regular institution of posts . 
Nor was the communication of the Roman empire less free and open by sea than it was by land . 
The provinces surrounded and enclosed the Mediterranean and Italy , in the shape of an immense promontory , advanced into the midst of that great lake . 
See Remains Of Claudian Aquaduct The following Itinerary may serve to convey some idea of the direction of the road , and of the distance between the principal towns . 
I. From the wall of Antoninus to York , Roman miles . 
The navigation to Boulogne , . 
X. The navigation to Dyrrachium , . 
In all Roman , or English miles . 
See the Itineraries published by Wesseling , his annotations Gale and Stukeley for Britain , and M. d'Anville for Gaul and Italy . 
has described the bridges of Narni , Alcantara , Nismes , c . 
Bergier , Histoire des grands Chemins de l'Empire Romain , l . 
des grands Chemins , l . 
In the time of Theodosius , Caesarius , a magistrate of high rank , went post from Antioch to Constantinople . 
the ensuing evening , and arrived at Constantinople the sixth day about noon . 
The whole distance was Roman , or English miles . 
, and the Itineria , p . 
Note A courier is mentioned in Walpole's Travels , ii . 
, who was to travel from Aleppo to Constantinople , more than miles , in eight days , an unusually short journey . 
M. Posts for the conveyance of intelligence were established by Augustus . 
The couriers travelled with amazing speed . 
Blair on Roman Slavery , note , p . 
Hadrian , perceiving the advantage of this improvement , extended it to all the provinces of the empire . 
Cardwell on Coins , p . 
M. Pliny , though a favorite and a minister , made an apology for granting post horses to his wife on the most urgent business . 
des grands Chemins , l . 
Note Pliny says Puteoli , which seems to have been the usual landing place from the East . 
See the voyages of St . 
, and of Josephus , Vita , c . 
In the more remote ages of antiquity , the world was unequally divided . 
A thousand years afterwards , Italy could boast , that of the fourscore most generous and celebrated wines , more than two thirds were produced from her soil . 
This difficulty , however , was gradually vanquished and there is some reason to believe , that the vineyards of Burgundy are as old as the age of the Antonines . 
The olive , in the western world , followed the progress of peace , of which it was considered as the symbol . 
The cultivation of flax was transported from Egypt to Gaul , and enriched the whole country , however it might impoverish the particular lands on which it was sown . 
The use of artificial grasses became familiar to the farmers both of Italy and the provinces , particularly the Lucerne , which derived its name and origin from Media . 
The accidental scarcity , in any single province , was immediately relieved by the plenty of its more fortunate neighbors . 
It is not improbable that the Greeks and Phoenicians introduced some new arts and productions into the neighborhood of Marseilles and Gades . 
The intense cold of a Gallic winter was almost proverbial among the ancients . 
Note Strabo only says that the grape does not ripen . 
Attempts had been made in the time of Augustus to naturalize the vine in the north of Gaul but the cold was too great . 
gives a curious picture of the Italian traders bartering , with the savages of Gaul , a cask of wine for a slave . 
Nos justissimi homines , qui transalpinas gentes oleam et vitem serere non sinimus , quo pluris sint nostra oliveta nostraeque vineae . 
The restrictive law of Domitian was veiled under the decent pretext of encouraging the cultivation of grain . 
It was repealed by Probus Vopis Strobus , . 
speaks of the vines in the territory of Autun , which were decayed through age , and the first plantation of which was totally unknown . 
The Pagus Arebrignus is supposed by M. d'Anville to be the district of Beaune , celebrated , even at present for one of the first growths of Burgundy . 
and the Burgundy and Franche Compte . 
See the agreeable Essays on Agriculture by Mr. Harte , in which he has collected all that the ancients and moderns have said of Lucerne . 
Agriculture is the foundation of manufactures since the productions of nature are the materials of art . 
Under the Roman empire , the labor of an industrious and ingenious people was variously , but incessantly , employed in the service of the rich . 
This operation , the particular effects of which are felt in every society , acted with much more diffusive energy in the Roman world . 
But it is no easy task to confine luxury within the limits of an empire . 
The most remote countries of the ancient world were ransacked to supply the pomp and delicacy of Rome . 
The forests of Scythia afforded some valuable furs . 
Amber was brought over land from the shores of the Baltic to the Danube and the barbarians were astonished at the price which they received in exchange for so useless a commodity . 
There was a considerable demand for Babylonian carpets , and other manufactures of the East but the most important and unpopular branch of foreign trade was carried on with Arabia and India . 
Every year , about the time of the summer solstice , a fleet of a hundred and twenty vessels sailed from Myos hormos , a port of Egypt , on the Red Sea . 
By the periodical assistance of the monsoons , they traversed the ocean in about forty days . 
The annual loss is computed , by a writer of an inquisitive but censorious temper , at upwards of eight hundred thousand pounds sterling . 
Such was the style of discontent , brooding over the dark prospect of approaching poverty . 
The latter observed , with some humor , that even fashion had not yet found out the use of amber . 
Nero sent a Roman knight to purchase great quantities on the spot where it was produced , the coast of modern Prussia . 
Called Taprobana by the Romans , and Serindib by the Arabs . 
It was discovered under the reign of Claudius , and gradually became the principal mart of the East . 
A silk garment was considered as an ornament to a woman , but as a disgrace to a man . 
The two great pearl fisheries were the same as at present , Ormuz and Cape Comorin . 
Certainly not the only one . 
The Indians were not so contented with regard to foreign productions . 
See Periplus Maris Erythraei in Hudson , Geogr . 
W. The German translator observes that Gibbon has confined the use of aromatics to religious worship and funerals . 
His error seems the omission of other spices , of which the Romans must have consumed great quantities in their cookery . 
Wenck , however , admits that silver was the chief article of exchange . 
In a speech of Tiberius . 
In another place he computes half that sum Quingenties H. S. for India exclusive of Arabia . 
The proportion , which was to , and , rose to , the legal regulation of Constantine . 
See Arbuthnot's Tables of ancient Coins , c . 
They affirm , that with the improvement of arts , the human species were visibly multiplied . 
Whatever suspicions may be suggested by the air of rhetoric and declamation , which seems to prevail in these passages , the substance of them is perfectly agreeable to historic truth . 
It was scarcely possible that the eyes of contemporaries should discover in the public felicity the latent causes of decay and corruption . 
This long peace , and the uniform government of the Romans , introduced a slow and secret poison into the vitals of the empire . 
The minds of men were gradually reduced to the same level , the fire of genius was extinguished , and even the military spirit evaporated . 
The natives of Europe were brave and robust . 
Spain , Gaul , Britain , and Illyricum supplied the legions with excellent soldiers , and constituted the real strength of the monarchy . 
They received laws and governors from the will of their sovereign , and trusted for their defence to a mercenary army . 
The posterity of their boldest leaders was contented with the rank of citizens and subjects . 
The love of letters , almost inseparable from peace and refinement , was fashionable among the subjects of Hadrian and the Antonines , who were themselves men of learning and curiosity . 
The name of Poet was almost forgotten that of Orator was usurped by the sophists . 
A cloud of critics , of compilers , of commentators , darkened the face of learning , and the decline of genius was soon followed by the corruption of taste . 
Herodes Atticus gave the sophist Polemo above eight thousand pounds for three declamations . 
The salary of a philosopher was ten thousand drachmae , between three and four hundred pounds a year . 
Similar establishments were formed in the other great cities of the empire . 
Materiamque sibi Ducis indulgentia quaerit . 
Note Vespasian first gave a salary to professors he assigned to each professor of rhetoric , Greek and Roman , centena sestertia . 
The united triumvirs had but forty three . 
The testimony of Orosius is of little value when more certain may be had . 
W. But all the legions , doubtless , submitted to Augustus after the battle of Actium . 
The abuse became still more scandalous after his death . 
The reformation of the senate was one of the first steps in which Augustus laid aside the tyrant , and professed himself the father of his country . 
But whilst he thus restored the dignity , he destroyed the independence , of the senate . 
The principles of a free constitution are irrecoverably lost , when the legislative power is nominated by the executive . 
Of these Dion and Suetonius knew nothing . 
W. Dion says the contrary . 
That was called , as is well known , Senatum legere . 
and Dion expressly says , that this was done according to ancient usage . 
He was empowered by a decree of the senate to admit a number of families among the patricians . 
Finally , the senate was not the legislative power . 
W Dion Cassius , l . 
Before an assembly thus modelled and prepared , Augustus pronounced a studied oration , which displayed his patriotism , and disguised his ambition . 
He lamented , yet excused , his past conduct . 
He was now at liberty to satisfy his duty and his inclination . 
gives us a prolix and bombast speech on this great occasion . 
I have borrowed from Suetonius and Tacitus the general language of Augustus . 
to describe the various emotions of the senate , those that were suppressed , and those that were affected . 
It was dangerous to trust the sincerity of Augustus to seem to distrust it was still more dangerous . 
Amidst this confusion of sentiments , the answer of the senate was unanimous and decisive . 
They refused to accept the resignation of Augustus they conjured him not to desert the republic , which he had saved . 
But he would receive them only for ten years . 
signified under her republic no more than general , and was emphatically bestowed by the soldiers , when on the field of battle they proclaimed their victorious leader worthy of that title . 
When the Roman emperors assumed it in that sense , they placed it after their name , and marked how often they had taken it . 
The most sacred rights of freedom , confirmed by the Porcian and Sempronian laws , were suspended by the military engagement . 
The choice of the enemies of Rome was regularly decided by the legislative authority . 
The most important resolutions of peace and war were seriously debated in the senate , and solemnly ratified by the people . 
It was from the success , not from the justice , of their enterprises , that they expected the honors of a triumph . 
In the use of victory , especially after they were no longer controlled by the commissioners of the senate , they exercised the most unbounded despotism . 
When Pompey commanded in the East , he rewarded his soldiers and allies , dethroned princes , divided kingdoms , founded colonies , and distributed the treasures of Mithridates . 
On his return to Rome , he obtained , by a single act of the senate and people , the universal ratification of all his proceedings . 
Such was the power over the soldiers , and over the enemies of Rome , which was either granted to , or assumed by , the generals of the republic . 
See , in the viiith book of Livy , the conduct of Manlius Torquatus and Papirius Cursor . 
They violated the laws of nature and humanity , but they asserted those of military discipline and the people , who abhorred the action , was obliged to respect the principle . 
By the lavish but unconstrained suffrages of the people , Pompey had obtained a military command scarcely inferior to that of Augustus . 
Among the extraordinary acts of power executed by the former we may remark the foundation of twenty nine cities , and the distribution of three or four millions sterling to his troops . 
The ratification of his acts met with some opposition and delays in the senate See Plutarch , Appian , Dion Cassius , and the first book of the epistles to Atticus . 
From what has already been observed in the first chapter of this work , some notion may be formed of the armies and provinces thus intrusted to the ruling hand of Augustus . 
In rank and authority these officers seemed not inferior to the ancient proconsuls but their station was dependent and precarious . 
They received and held their commissions at the will of a superior , to whose auspicious influence the merit of their action was legally attributed . 
They were the representatives of the emperor . 
The emperor alone was the general of the republic , and his jurisdiction , civil as well as military , extended over all the conquests of Rome . 
It was some satisfaction , however , to the senate , that he always delegated his power to the members of their body . 
The imperial lieutenants were of consular or praetorian dignity the legions were commanded by senators , and the praefecture of Egypt was the only important trust committed to a Roman knight . 
Under the commonwealth , a triumph could only be claimed by the general , who was authorized to take the Auspices in the name of the people . 
Within six days after Augustus had been compelled to accept so very liberal a grant , he resolved to gratify the pride of the senate by an easy sacrifice . 
He represented to them , that they had enlarged his powers , even beyond that degree which might be required by the melancholy condition of the times . 
In the division of the provinces , Augustus provided for his own power and for the dignity of the republic . 
The former were attended by lictors , the latter by soldiers . 
This distinction is without foundation . 
The provinces of Africa and Asia were only given to ex consuls . 
See , on the Organization of the Provinces , Dion , liii . 
W In return for this imaginary concession , Augustus obtained an important privilege , which rendered him master of Rome and Italy . 
Although Augustus considered a military force as the firmest foundation , he wisely rejected it , as a very odious instrument of government . 
The consuls had succeeded to the kings of Rome , and represented the dignity of the state . 
They superintended the ceremonies of religion , levied and commanded the legions , gave audience to foreign ambassadors , and presided in the assemblies both of the senate and people . 
The character of the tribunes was , in every respect , different from that of the consuls . 
The appearance of the former was modest and humble but their persons were sacred and inviolable . 
Their force was suited rather for opposition than for action . 
As long as the republic subsisted , the dangerous influence , which either the consul or the tribune might derive from their respective jurisdiction , was diminished by several important restrictions . 
observes three powers in the Roman constitution . 
The monarchical was represented and exercised by the consuls . 
we may easily conceive , that it was given as a reward for having so nobly asserted , by arms , the sacred rights of the tribunes and people . 
See his own Commentaries , de Bell . 
Augustus exercised nine annual consulships without interruption . 
Augustus , as well as his successors , affected , however , to conceal so invidious a title . 
The note of M. Guizot on the tribunitian power applies to the French translation rather than to the original . 
The former has , maintenir la balance toujours egale , which implies much more than Gibbon's general expression . 
The note belongs rather to the history of the Republic than that of the Empire . 
M To these accumulated honors , the policy of Augustus soon added the splendid as well as important dignities of supreme pontiff , and of censor . 
By the former he acquired the management of the religion , and by the latter a legal inspection over the manners and fortunes , of the Roman people . 
If so many distinct and independent powers did not exactly unite with each other , the complaisance of the senate was prepared to supply every deficiency by the most ample and extraordinary concessions . 
See a fragment of a Decree of the Senate , conferring on the emperor Vespasian all the powers granted to his predecessors , Augustus , Tiberius , and Claudius . 
This curious and important monument is published in Gruter's Inscriptions , No. ccxlii . 
The names and forms of the ancient administration were preserved by Augustus with the most anxious care . 
The usual number of consuls , praetors , and tribunes , were annually invested with their respective ensigns of office , and continued to discharge some of their least important functions . 
In the election of these magistrates , the people , during the reign of Augustus , were permitted to expose all the inconveniences of a wild democracy . 
That artful prince , instead of discovering the least symptom of impatience , humbly solicited their suffrages for himself or his friends , and scrupulously practised all the duties of an ordinary candidate . 
But we may venture to ascribe to his councils the first measure of the succeeding reign , by which the elections were transferred to the senate . 
I have not mentioned the Aediles or Quaestors Officers of the police or revenue easily adapt themselves to any form of government . 
The tyrants themselves were ambitious of the consulship . 
The virtuous princes were moderate in the pursuit , and exact in the discharge of it . 
Tribus cum candidatis suis circunbat supplicabatque more solemni . 
Ferebat et ipse suffragium in tribubus , ut unus e populo . 
Tum primum Comitia e campo ad patres translata sunt . 
The word primum seems to allude to some faint and unsuccessful efforts which were made towards restoring them to the people . 
Note The emperor Caligula made the attempt he rest red the Comitia to the people , but , in a short time , took them away again . 
Nevertheless , at the time of Dion , they preserved still the form of the Comitia . 
W. By declaring themselves the protectors of the people , Marius and Caesar had subverted the constitution of their country . 
It was on the dignity of the senate that Augustus and his successors founded their new empire and they affected , on every occasion , to adopt the language and principles of Patricians . 
In the administration of their own powers , they frequently consulted the great national council , and seemed to refer to its decision the most important concerns of peace and war . 
Rome , Italy , and the internal provinces , were subject to the immediate jurisdiction of the senate . 
Every power was derived from their authority , every law was ratified by their sanction . 
Their regular meetings were held on three stated days in every month , the Calends , the Nones , and the Ides . 
The debates were conducted with decent freedom and the emperors themselves , who gloried in the name of senators , sat , voted , and divided with their equals . 
has given a very loose and partial sketch of the Imperial system . 
Beaufort Republique Romaine , tom . 
The Dissertations of Noodt aad Gronovius de lege Regia , printed at Leyden , in the year Gravina de Imperio Romano , p . 
Maffei , Verona Illustrata , p . 
The face of the court corresponded with the forms of the administration . 
In all the offices of life , they affected to confound themselves with their subjects , and maintained with them an equal intercourse of visits and entertainments . 
Their habit , their palace , their table , were suited only to the rank of an opulent senator . 
Their family , however numerous or splendid , was composed entirely of their domestic slaves and freedmen . 
A weak prince will always be governed by his domestics . 
The power of slaves aggravated the shame of the Romans and the senate paid court to a Pallas or a Narcissus . 
There is a chance that a modern favorite may be a gentleman . 
The deification of the emperors is the only instance in which they departed from their accustomed prudence and modesty . 
The Asiatic Greeks were the first inventors , the successors of Alexander the first objects , of this servile and impious mode of adulation . 
The milder temper of his successor declined so dangerous an ambition , which was never afterwards revived , except by the madness of Caligula and Domitian . 
We should disgrace the virtues of the Antonines by comparing them with the vices of Hercules or Jupiter . 
Even the characters of Caesar or Augustus were far superior to those of the popular deities . 
As soon as their divinity was established by law , it sunk into oblivion , without contributing either to their own fame , or to the dignity of succeeding princes . 
See a treatise of Vandale de Consecratione Principium . 
It would be easier for me to copy , than it has been to verify , the quotations of that learned Dutchman . 
a long time before Alexander and his successors . 
he would not have incurred that blame if he had only done what the governors were accustomed to do . 
G. from W. M. Guizot has been guilty of a still greater inaccuracy in confounding the deification of the living with the apotheosis of the dead emperors . 
The nature of the king worship of Egypt is still very obscure the hero worship of the Greeks very different from the adoration of the praesens numen in the reigning sovereign . 
M. See a dissertation of the Abbe Mongault in the first volume of the Academy of Inscriptions . 
Jurandasque tuum per nomen ponimus aras , says Horace to the emperor himself , and Horace was well acquainted with the court of Augustus . 
Note The good princes were not those who alone obtained the honors of an apotheosis it was conferred on many tyrants . 
See an excellent treatise of Schaepflin , de Consecratione Imperatorum Romanorum , in his Commentationes historicae et criticae . 
W. ! The curious satire in the works of Seneca , is the strongest remonstrance of profaned religion . 
M. See Cicero in Philippic . 
Inque Deum templis jurabit Roma per umbras , is the indignant expression of Lucan but it is a patriotic rather than a devout indignation . 
The obscure name of Octavianus he derived from a mean family , in the little town of Aricia . 
! It was stained with the blood of the proscription and he was desirous , had it been possible , to erase all memory of his former life . 
Augustus was therefore a personal , Caesar a family distinction . 
A distinction was , however , soon introduced . 
! Octavius was not of an obscure family , but of a considerable one of the equestrian order . 
His mother Attia , was daughter of M. Attius Balbus , who had also been praetor . 
M. Anthony reproached Octavius with having been born in Aricia , which , nevertheless , was a considerable municipal city he was vigorously refuted by Cicero . 
W. Gibbon probably meant that the family had but recently emerged into notice . 
, with the curious Annotations of Reimar . 
The princes who by their birth or their adoption belonged to the family of the Caesars , took the name of Caesar . 
After the death of Nero , this name designated the Imperial dignity itself , and afterwards the appointed successor . 
The time at which it was employed in the latter sense , cannot be fixed with certainty . 
affirms from Tacitus , H. i . 
W. Chapter III The Constitution In The Age Of The Antonines . 
The tender respect of Augustus for a free constitution which he had destroyed , can only be explained by an attentive consideration of the character of that subtle tyrant . 
A cool head , an unfeeling heart , and a cowardly disposition , prompted him at the age of nineteen to assume the mask of hypocrisy , which he never afterwards laid aside . 
With the same hand , and probably with the same temper , he signed the proscription of Cicero , and the pardon of Cinna . 
When he framed the artful system of the Imperial authority , his moderation was inspired by his fears . 
He wished to deceive the people by an image of civil liberty , and the armies by an image of civil government . 
I. The death of Caesar was ever before his eyes . 
He had lavished wealth and honors on his adherents but the most favored friends of his uncle were in the number of the conspirators . 
Caesar had provoked his fate , as much as by the ostentation of his power , as by his power itself . 
The consul or the tribune might have reigned in peace . 
The title of king had armed the Romans against his life . 
It was a motive of self preservation , not a principle of liberty , that animated the conspirators against Caligula , Nero , and Domitian . 
They attacked the person of the tyrant , without aiming their blow at the authority of the emperor . 
Two centuries after the establishment of monarchy , the emperor Marcus Antoninus recommends the character of Brutus as a perfect model of Roman virtue . 
Note In a very ingenious essay , Gibbon has ventured to call in question the preeminent virtue of Brutus . 
M. There appears , indeed , one memorable occasion , in which the senate , after seventy years of patience , made an ineffectual attempt to re assume its long forgotten rights . 
But while they deliberated , the praetorian guards had resolved . 
The stupid Claudius , brother of Germanicus , was already in their camp , invested with the Imperial purple , and prepared to support his election by arms . 
The dream of liberty was at an end and the senate awoke to all the horrors of inevitable servitude . 
See The Capitol When the throne was vacant by the murder of Caligula , the consuls convoked that assembly in the Capitol . 
It is much to be regretted that we have lost the part of Tacitus which treated of that transaction . 
We are forced to content ourselves with the popular rumors of Josephus , and the imperfect hints of Dion and Suetonius . 
The insolence of the armies inspired Augustus with fears of a still more alarming nature . 
The despair of the citizens could only attempt , what the power of the soldiers was , at any time , able to execute . 
How precarious was his own authority over men whom he had taught to violate every social duty ! He had heard their seditious clamors he dreaded their calmer moments of reflection . 
One revolution had been purchased by immense rewards but a second revolution might double those rewards . 
The troops professed the fondest attachment to the house of Caesar but the attachments of the multitude are capricious and inconstant . 
Caligula and Domitian were assassinated in their palace by their own domestics the convulsions which agitated Rome on the death of the former , were confined to the walls of the city . 
But Nero involved the whole empire in his ruin . 
In the space of eighteen months , four princes perished by the sword and the Roman world was shaken by the fury of the contending armies . 
Excepting only this short , though violent eruption of military license , the two centuries from Augustus to Commodus passed away unstained with civil blood , and undisturbed by revolutions . 
The emperor was elected by the authority of the senate , and the consent of the soldiers . 
W. Augustus restored the ancient severity of discipline . 
These words seem to have been the constitutional language . 
Note This panegyric on the soldiery is rather too liberal . 
Claudius was obliged to purchase their consent to his coronation the presents which he made , and those which the praetorians received on other occasions , considerably embarrassed the finances . 
Moreover , this formidable guard favored , in general , the cruelties of the tyrants . 
The distant revolts were more frequent than Gibbon thinks already , under Tiberius , the legions of Germany would have seditiously constrained Germanicus to assume the Imperial purple . 
On the revolt of Claudius Civilis , under Vespasian , the legions of Gaul murdered their general , and offered their assistance to the Gauls who were in insurrection . 
Julius Sabinus made himself be proclaimed emperor , c . 
The wars , the merit , and the severe discipline of Trajan , Hadrian , and the two Antonines , established , for some time , a greater degree of subordination . 
The two last reigned but a few months , and were cut off by their own adherents . 
We may observe , that both Camillus and Cassius colored their ambition with the design of restoring the republic a task , said Cassius peculiarly reserved for his name and family . 
In elective monarchies , the vacancy of the throne is a moment big with danger and mischief . 
Thus Vespasian subdued the generous mind of his eldest son . 
Titus was adored by the eastern legions , which , under his command , had recently achieved the conquest of Judaea . 
His power was dreaded , and , as his virtues were clouded by the intemperance of youth , his designs were suspected . 
The good sense of Vespasian engaged him indeed to embrace every measure that might confirm his recent and precarious elevation . 
It was not without reluctance and remorse , that the praetorian guards had been persuaded to abandon the cause of the tyrant . 
The rapid downfall of Galba , Otho , and Vitellus , taught the armies to consider the emperors as the creatures of their will , and the instruments of their license . 
Under the mild administration of Titus , the Roman world enjoyed a transient felicity , and his beloved memory served to protect , above fifteen years , the vices of his brother Domitian . 
This idea is frequently and strongly inculcated by Tacitus . 
and one of the companions of Hercules Suet in Vespasian , c . 
His mild disposition was respected by the good but the degenerate Romans required a more vigorous character , whose justice should strike terror into the guilty . 
Though he had several relations , he fixed his choice on a stranger . 
There remains , however , one panegyric far removed beyond the suspicion of flattery . 
Felicior Augusto , Melior Trajano . 
We may readily believe , that the father of his country hesitated whether he ought to intrust the various and doubtful character of his kinsman Hadrian with sovereign power . 
Under his reign , as has been already mentioned , the empire flourished in peace and prosperity . 
He encouraged the arts , reformed the laws , asserted military discipline , and visited all his provinces in person . 
His vast and active genius was equally suited to the most enlarged views , and the minute details of civil policy . 
But the ruling passions of his soul were curiosity and vanity . 
As they prevailed , and as they were attracted by different objects , Hadrian was , by turns , an excellent prince , a ridiculous sophist , and a jealous tyrant . 
The general tenor of his conduct deserved praise for its equity and moderation . 
The senate doubted whether they should pronounce him a god or a tyrant and the honors decreed to his memory were granted to the prayers of the pious Antoninus . 
has maintained that Hadrian was called to the certain hope of the empire , during the lifetime of Trajan . 
The caprice of Hadrian influenced his choice of a successor . 
He left only one son . 
Hadrian commended the boy to the gratitude of the Antonines . 
He was adopted by Pius and , on the accession of Marcus , was invested with an equal share of sovereign power . 
Among the many vices of this younger Verus , he possessed one virtue a dutiful reverence for his wiser colleague , to whom he willingly abandoned the ruder cares of empire . 
The philosophic emperor dissembled his follies , lamented his early death , and cast a decent veil over his memory . 
The deification of Antinous , his medals , his statues , temples , city , oracles , and constellation , are well known , and still dishonor the memory of Hadrian . 
Yet we may remark , that of the first fifteen emperors , Claudius was the only one whose taste in love was entirely correct . 
For the honors of Antinous , see Spanheim , Commentaire sui les Caesars de Julien , p . 
As soon as Hadrian's passion was either gratified or disappointed , he resolved to deserve the thanks of posterity , by placing the most exalted merit on the Roman throne . 
governed the Roman world forty two years , with the same invariable spirit of wisdom and virtue . 
Their united reigns are possibly the only period of history in which the happiness of a great people was the sole object of government . 
Without the help of medals and inscriptions , we should be ignorant of this fact , so honorable to the memory of Pius . 
Note Gibbon attributes to Antoninus Pius a merit which he either did not possess , or was not in a situation to display . 
He was adopted only on the condition that he would adopt , in his turn , Marcus Aurelius and L. Verus . 
His two sons died children , and one of them , M. Galerius , alone , appears to have survived , for a few years , his father's coronation . 
that without the help of medals and inscriptions , we should be ignorant that Antoninus had two sons . 
Filii mares duo , duae foeminae we only owe their names to he medals . 
W. During the twenty three years of Pius's reign , Marcus was only two nights absent from the palace , and even those were at different times . 
Titus Antoninus Pius has been justly denominated a second Numa . 
The same love of religion , justice , and peace , was the distinguishing characteristic of both princes . 
But the situation of the latter opened a much larger field for the exercise of those virtues . 
Numa could only prevent a few neighboring villages from plundering each other's harvests . 
Antoninus diffused order and tranquillity over the greatest part of the earth . 
In private life , he was an amiable , as well as a good man . 
The native simplicity of his virtue was a stranger to vanity or affectation . 
He enjoyed with moderation the conveniences of his fortune , and the innocent pleasures of society and the benevolence of his soul displayed itself in a cheerful serenity of temper . 
He was fond of the theatre , and not insensible to the charms of the fair sex . 
The virtue of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus was of severer and more laborious kind . 
It was the well earned harvest of many a learned conference , of many a patient lecture , and many a midnight lucubration . 
But his life was the noblest commentary on the precepts of Zeno . 
He was severe to himself , indulgent to the imperfections of others , just and beneficent to all mankind . 
His memory was revered by a grateful posterity , and above a century after his death , many persons preserved the image of Marcus Antoninus among those of their household gods . 
The enemies of Marcus charged him with hypocrisy , and with a want of that simplicity which distinguished Pius and even Verus . 
This suspicions , unjust as it was , may serve to account for the superior applause bestowed upon personal qualifications , in preference to the social virtues . 
Even Marcus Antoninus has been called a hypocrite but the wildest scepticism never insinuated that Caesar might probably be a coward , or Tully a fool . 
Wit and valor are qualifications more easily ascertained than humanity or the love of justice . 
Before he went on the second expedition against the Germans , he read lectures of philosophy to the Roman people , during three days . 
He had already done the same in the cities of Greece and Asia . 
Cassius was murdered by his own partisans . 
Note See one of the newly discovered passages of Dion Cassius . 
Marcus wrote to the senate , who urged the execution of the partisans of Cassius , in these words I entreat and beseech you to preserve my reign unstained by senatorial blood . 
None of your order must perish either by your desire or mine . 
M. ! ! Marcus would not accept the services of any of the barbarian allies who crowded to his standard in the war against Avidius Cassius . 
Barbarians , he said , with wise but vain sagacity , must not become acquainted with the dissensions of the Roman people . 
The vast extent of the Roman empire was governed by absolute power , under the guidance of virtue and wisdom . 
The armies were restrained by the firm but gentle hand of four successive emperors , whose characters and authority commanded involuntary respect . 
Such princes deserved the honor of restoring the republic , had the Romans of their days been capable of enjoying a rational freedom . 
A just but melancholy reflection imbittered , however , the noblest of human enjoyments . 
They must often have recollected the instability of a happiness which depended on the character of single man . 
The ideal restraints of the senate and the laws might serve to display the virtues , but could never correct the vices , of the emperor . 
These gloomy apprehensions had been already justified by the experience of the Romans . 
The annals of the emperors exhibit a strong and various picture of human nature , which we should vainly seek among the mixed and doubtful characters of modern history . 
In the conduct of those monarchs we may trace the utmost lines of vice and virtue the most exalted perfection , and the meanest degeneracy of our own species . 
The golden age of Trajan and the Antonines had been preceded by an age of iron . 
It is almost superfluous to enumerate the unworthy successors of Augustus . 
Their unparalleled vices , and the splendid theatre on which they were acted , have saved them from oblivion . 
Rome groaned beneath an unremitting tyranny , which exterminated the ancient families of the republic , and was fatal to almost every virtue and every talent that arose in that unhappy period . 
Vitellius consumed in mere eating at least six millions of our money in about seven months . 
It is not easy to express his vices with dignity , or even decency . 
Tacitus fairly calls him a hog , but it is by substituting for a coarse word a very fine image . 
At Vitellius , umbraculis hortorum abditus , ut ignava animalia , quibus si cibum suggeras , jacent torpentque , praeterita , instantia , futura , pari oblivione dimiserat . 
Atque illum nemore Aricino desidem et marcentum , c . 
The execution of Helvidius Priscus , and of the virtuous Eponina , disgraced the reign of Vespasian . 
From these causes were derived , . 
The exquisite sensibility of the sufferers and , . 
The impossibility of escaping from the hand of the oppressor . 
The experience of every day might almost justify the scepticism of Rustan . 
Yet the fatal sword , suspended above him by a single thread , seems not to have disturbed the slumbers , or interrupted the tranquillity , of the Persian . 
His name , his wealth , his honors , were the gift of a master , who might , without injustice , resume what he had bestowed . 
Rustan's knowledge , if he possessed any , could only serve to confirm his habits by prejudices . 
His language afforded not words for any form of government , except absolute monarchy . 
The history of the East informed him , that such had ever been the condition of mankind . 
Voyage de Chardin en Perse , vol . 
The practice of raising slaves to the great offices of state is still more common among the Turks than among the Persians . 
The miserable countries of Georgia and Circassia supply rulers to the greatest part of the East . 
Chardin says , that European travellers have diffused among the Persians some ideas of the freedom and mildness of our governments . 
They have done them a very ill office . 
The minds of the Romans were very differently prepared for slavery . 
Oppressed beneath the weight of their own corruption and of military violence , they for a long while preserved the sentiments , or at least the ideas , of their free born ancestors . 
The education of Helvidius and Thrasea , of Tacitus and Pliny , was the same as that of Cato and Cicero . 
From Grecian philosophy , they had imbibed the justest and most liberal notions of the dignity of human nature , and the origin of civil society . 
As magistrates and senators they were admitted into the great council , which had once dictated laws to the earth , whose authority was so often prostituted to the vilest purposes of tyranny . 
By this assembly , the last of the Romans were condemned for imaginary crimes and real virtues . 
Their infamous accusers assumed the language of independent patriots , who arraigned a dangerous citizen before the tribunal of his country and the public service was rewarded by riches and honors . 
The tyrant beheld their baseness with just contempt , and encountered their secret sentiments of detestation with sincere and avowed hatred for the whole body of the senate . 
Marcellus Epirus and Crispus Vibius had acquired two millions and a half under Nero . 
Their wealth , which aggravated their crimes , protected them under Vespasian . 
For one accusation , Regulus , the just object of Pliny's satire , received from the senate the consular ornaments , and a present of sixty thousand pounds . 
The crime of majesty was formerly a treasonable offence against the Roman people . 
As tribunes of the people , Augustus and Tiberius applied tit to their own persons , and extended it to an infinite latitude . 
Note It was Tiberius , not Augustus , who first took in this sense the words crimen laesae majestatis . 
W. After the virtuous and unfortunate widow of Germanicus had been put to death , Tiberius received the thanks of the senate for his clemency . 
she had not been publicly strangled nor was the body drawn with a hook to the Gemoniae , where those of common male factors were exposed . 
To resist was fatal , and it was impossible to fly . 
Wherever you are , said Cicero to the exiled Marcellus , remember that you are equally within the power of the conqueror . 
Seriphus was a small rocky island in the Aegean Sea , the inhabitants of which were despised for their ignorance and obscurity . 
The place of Ovid's exile is well known , by his just , but unmanly lamentations . 
It should seem , that he only received an order to leave rome in so many days , and to transport himself to Tomi . 
Guards and jailers were unnecessary . 
Under Tiberius , a Roman knight attempted to fly to the Parthians . 
He was stopped in the straits of Sicily but so little danger did there appear in the example , that the most jealous of tyrants disdained to punish it . 
Cicero ad Familiares , iv . 
Chapter IV The Cruelty , Follies And Murder Of Commodus . 
Part I. The Cruelty , Follies , And Murder Of Commodus Election Of Pertinax His Attempts To Reform The State His Assassination By The Praetorian Guards . 
His excellent understanding was often deceived by the unsuspecting goodness of his heart . 
See the complaints of Avidius Cassius , Hist . 
These are , it is true , the complaints of faction but even faction exaggerates , rather than invents . 
His brother by adoption , and his colleague , L. Verus . 
Marcus Aurelius had no other brother . 
W. Faustina , the daughter of Pius and the wife of Marcus , has been as much celebrated for her gallantries as for her beauty . 
In his Meditations , he thanks the gods , who had bestowed on him a wife so faithful , so gentle , and of such a wonderful simplicity of manners . 
The obsequious senate , at his earnest request , declared her a goddess . 
Faustinam satis constat apud Cajetam conditiones sibi et nauticas et gladiatorias , elegisse . 
Lampridius explains the sort of merit which Faustina chose , and the conditions which she exacted . 
that the husband will always be deceived , if the wife condescends to dissemble . 
Commentaire de Spanheim sur les Caesars de Julien , p . 
The deification of Faustina is the only defect which Julian's criticism is able to discover in the all accomplished character of Marcus . 
The monstrous vices of the son have cast a shade on the purity of the father's virtues . 
But the power of instruction is seldom of much efficacy , except in those happy dispositions where it is almost superfluous . 
He lived but four years afterwards but he lived long enough to repent a rash measure , which raised the impetuous youth above the restraint of reason and authority . 
Of all our passions and appetites , the love of power is of the most imperious and unsociable nature , since the pride of one man requires the submission of the multitude . 
In the tumult of civil discord , the laws of society lose their force , and their place is seldom supplied by those of humanity . 
By a new strain of flattery , the Egyptian medals date by the years of his life as if they were synonymous to those of his reign . 
Nature had formed him of a weak rather than a wicked disposition . 
His simplicity and timidity rendered him the slave of his attendants , who gradually corrupted his mind . 
His cruelty , which at first obeyed the dictates of others , degenerated into habit , and at length became the ruling passion of his soul . 
Upon the death of his father , Commodus found himself embarrassed with the command of a great army , and the conduct of a difficult war against the Quadi and Marcomanni . 
The servile and profligate youths whom Marcus had banished , soon regained their station and influence about the new emperor . 
According to Tertullian , Apolog . 
, ) he died at Sirmium . 
But the situation of Vindobona , or Vienna , where both the Victors place his death , is better adapted to the operations of the war against the Marcomanni and Quadi . 
by Mr. Wotton , Hist . 
A fatal incident decided his fluctuating character . 
Manilius , the confidential secretary of Avidius Cassius , was discovered after he had lain concealed several years . 
The emperor nobly relieved the public anxiety by refusing to see him , and burning his papers without opening them . 
The menace prevented the deed the assassin was seized by the guards , and immediately revealed the authors of the conspiracy . 
It had been formed , not in the state , but within the walls of the palace . 
Lucilla , the emperor's sister , and widow of Lucius Verus , impatient of the second rank , and jealous of the reigning empress , had armed the murderer against her brother's life . 
she found men of desperate fortunes and wild ambition , who were prepared to serve her more violent , as well as her tender passions . 
The conspirators experienced the rigor of justice , and the abandoned princess was punished , first with exile , and afterwards with death . 
See Maffei degli Amphitheatri , p . 
But the words of the assassin sunk deep into the mind of Commodus , and left an indelible impression of fear and hatred against the whole body of the senate . 
Those whom he had dreaded as importunate ministers , he now suspected as secret enemies . 
That assembly , whom Marcus had ever considered as the great council of the nation , was composed of the most distinguished of the Romans and distinction of every kind soon became criminal . 
Suspicion was equivalent to proof trial to condemnation . 
The conspirators were senators , even the assassin himself . 
Their studies and their occupations , their pursuits and their pleasures , were still the same . 
The kind cruelty of Commodus united them in death . 
This work was on agriculture , and is often quoted by later writers . 
See P. Needham , Proleg . 
W. In a note upon the Augustan History , Casaubon has collected a number of particulars concerning these celebrated brothers . 
The tyrant's rage , after having shed the noblest blood of the senate , at length recoiled on the principal instrument of his cruelty . 
By acts of extortion , and the forfeited estates of the nobles sacrificed to his avarice , he had accumulated an immense treasure . 
The Praetorian guards were under his immediate command and his son , who already discovered a military genius , was at the head of the Illyrian legions . 
This presumption of a distant army , and their discovery of the weakness of government , was a sure presage of the most dreadful convulsions . 
Dion gives a much less odious character of Perennis , than the other historians . 
His moderation is almost a pledge of his veracity . 
Note Gibbon praises Dion for the moderation with which he speaks of Perennis he follows , nevertheless , in his own narrative , Herodian and Lampridius . 
Herodian relates that Commodus , having learned , from a soldier , the ambitious designs of Perennis and his son , caused them to be attacked and massacred by night . 
G. from W. Dion's narrative is remarkably circumstantial , and his authority higher than either of the other writers . 
He hints that Cleander , a new favorite , had already undermined the influence of Perennis . 
M. The negligence of the public administration was betrayed , soon afterwards , by a new disorder , which arose from the smallest beginnings . 
A spirit of desertion began to prevail among the troops and the deserters , instead of seeking their safety in flight or concealment , infested the highways . 
Maternus found that he was encompassed , and foresaw that he must be overpowered . 
A great effort of despair was his last resource . 
He ordered his followers to disperse , to pass the Alps in small parties and various disguises , and to assemble at Rome , during the licentious tumult of the festival of Cybele . 
To murder Commodus , and to ascend the vacant throne , was the ambition of no vulgar robber . 
His measures were so ably concerted that his concealed troops already filled the streets of Rome . 
The envy of an accomplice discovered and ruined this singular enterprise , in a moment when it was ripe for execution . 
During the second Punic war , the Romans imported from Asia the worship of the mother of the gods . 
Her festival , the Megalesia , began on the fourth of April , and lasted six days . 
The streets were crowded with mad processions , the theatres with spectators , and the public tables with unbidden guests . 
Order and police were suspended , and pleasure was the only serious business of the city . 
Cleander , the successor of Perennis , was a Phrygian by birth of a nation over whose stubborn , but servile temper , blows only could prevail . 
He had been sent from his native country to Rome , in the capacity of a slave . 
As a slave he entered the Imperial palace , rendered himself useful to his master's passions , and rapidly ascended to the most exalted station which a subject could enjoy . 
His influence over the mind of Commodus was much greater than that of his predecessor for Cleander was devoid of any ability or virtue which could inspire the emperor with envy or distrust . 
Avarice was the reigning passion of his soul , and the great principle of his administration . 
In the lucrative provincial employments , the minister shared with the governor the spoils of the people . 
The execution of the laws was penal and arbitrary . 
Cicero pro Flacco , c . 
One of these dear bought promotions occasioned a current . 
that Julius Solon was banished into the senate . 
By these means , Cleander , in the space of three years , had accumulated more wealth than had ever yet been possessed by any freedman . 
Commodus was perfectly satisfied with the magnificent presents which the artful courtier laid at his feet in the most seasonable moments . 
To divert the public envy , Cleander , under the emperor's name , erected baths , porticos , and places of exercise , for the use of the people . 
The former , with more integrity than prudence , had attempted to disclose , to his brother in law , the true character of Cleander . 
An equitable sentence pronounced by the latter , when proconsul of Asia , against a worthless creature of the favorite , proved fatal to him . 
After the fall of Perennis , the terrors of Commodus had , for a short time , assumed the appearance of a return to virtue . 
He repealed the most odious of his acts loaded his memory with the public execration , and ascribed to the pernicious counsels of that wicked minister all the errors of his inexperienced youth . 
But his repentance lasted only thirty days and , under Cleander's tyranny , the administration of Perennis was often regretted . 
observes , that no freedman had possessed riches equal to those of Cleander . 
The fortune of Pallas amounted , however , to upwards of five and twenty hundred thousand pounds Ter millies . 
These baths were situated near the Porta Capena . 
See Nardini Roma Antica , p . 
Chapter IV The Cruelty , Follies And Murder Of Commodus . 
Pestilence and famine contributed to fill up the measure of the calamities of Rome . 
The popular discontent , after it had long circulated in whispers , broke out in the assembled circus . 
Cleander , who commanded the Praetorian guards , ordered a body of cavalry to sally forth , and disperse the seditious multitude . 
The foot guards , who had been long jealous of the prerogatives and insolence of the Praetorian cavalry , embraced the party of the people . 
The tumult became a regular engagement , and threatened a general massacre . 
It was death to approach his person with the unwelcome news . 
Commodus started from his dream of pleasure , and commanded that the head of Cleander should be thrown out to the people . 
The desired spectacle instantly appeased the tumult and the son of Marcus might even yet have regained the affection and confidence of his subjects . 
The latter says that two thousand persons died every day at Rome , during a considerable length of time . 
Tuneque primum tres praefecti praetorio fuere inter quos libertinus . 
From some remains of modesty , Cleander declined the title , whilst he assumed the powers , of Praetorian praefect . 
As the other freedmen were styled , from their several departments , a rationibus , ab epistolis , Cleander called himself a pugione , as intrusted with the defence of his master's person . 
Salmasius and Casaubon seem to have talked very idly upon this passage . 
Note M. Guizot denies that Lampridius means Cleander as praefect a pugione . 
The Libertinus seems to me to mean him . 
It is doubtful whether he means the Praetorian infantry , or the cohortes urbanae , a body of six thousand men , but whose rank and discipline were not equal to their numbers . 
Neither Tillemont nor Wotton choose to decide this question . 
But every sentiment of virtue and humanity was extinct in the mind of Commodus . 
Whilst he thus abandoned the reins of empire to these unworthy favorites , he valued nothing in sovereign power , except the unbounded license of indulging his sensual appetites . 
The intervals of lust were filled up with the basest amusements . 
Ipsas concubinas suas sub oculis . 
Nec irruentium in se juvenum carebat infamia , omni parte corporis atque ore in sexum utrumque pollutus . 
The servile crowd , whose fortune depended on their master's vices , applauded these ignoble pursuits . 
In the civilized state of the Roman empire , the wild beasts had long since retired from the face of man , and the neighborhood of populous cities . 
The African lions , when pressed by hunger , infested the open villages and cultivated country and they infested them with impunity . 
This extraordinary game law was mitigated by Honorius , and finally repealed by Justinian . 
Commodus placed his own head on the colossal statue of Hercules with the inscription , Lucius Commodus Hercules . 
The wits of Rome , according to a new fragment of Dion , published an epigram , of which , like many other ancient jests , the point is not very clear . 
It seems to be a protest of the god against being confounded with the emperor . 
Whether he aimed at the head or heart of the animal , the wound was alike certain and mortal . 
With arrows whose point was shaped into the form of crescent , Commodus often intercepted the rapid career , and cut asunder the long , bony neck of the ostrich . 
A panther was let loose and the archer waited till he had leaped upon a trembling malefactor . 
In the same instant the shaft flew , the beast dropped dead , and the man remained unhurt . 
The dens of the amphitheatre disgorged at once a hundred lions a hundred darts from the unerring hand of Commodus laid them dead as they run raging round the Arena . 
Neither the huge bulk of the elephant , nor the scaly hide of the rhinoceros , could defend them from his stroke . 
Aethiopia and India yielded their most extraordinary productions and several animals were slain in the amphitheatre , which had been seen only in the representations of art , or perhaps of fancy . 
The ostrich's neck is three feet long , and composed of seventeen vertebrae . 
the tallest , the most gentle , and the most useless of the large quadrupeds . 
has endeavored to describe , he has not ventured to delineate , the Giraffe . 
Note The naturalists of our days have been more fortunate . 
London probably now contains more specimens of this animal than have been seen in Europe since the fall of the Roman empire , unless in the pleasure gardens of the emperor Frederic II . 
, in Sicily , which possessed several . 
Frederic's collections of wild beasts were exhibited , for the popular amusement , in many parts of Italy . 
Raumer , Geschichte der Hohenstaufen , v . 
Gibbon , moreover , is mistaken as a giraffe was presented to Lorenzo de Medici , either by the sultan of Egypt or the king of Tunis . 
Contemporary authorities are quoted in the old work , Gesner de Quadrupedibum p . 
He chose the habit and arms of the Secutor , whose combat with the Retiarius formed one of the most lively scenes in the bloody sports of the amphitheatre . 
If he missed the first throw , he was obliged to fly from the pursuit of the Secutor , till he had prepared his net for a second cast . 
The emperor fought in this character seven hundred and thirty five several times . 
He now disdained the appellation of Hercules . 
The name of Paulus , a celebrated Secutor , was the only one which delighted his ear . 
It was inscribed on his colossal statues , and repeated in the redoubled acclamations of the mournful and applauding senate . 
Claudius Pompeianus , the virtuous husband of Lucilla , was the only senator who asserted the honor of his rank . 
As a father , he permitted his sons to consult their safety by attending the amphitheatre . 
As a Roman , he declared , that his own life was in the emperor's hands , but that he would never behold the son of Marcus prostituting his person and dignity . 
Notwithstanding his manly resolution Pompeianus escaped the resentment of the tyrant , and , with his honor , had the good fortune to preserve his life . 
The tyrants allured them to dishonor by threats and rewards . 
Nero once produced in the arena forty senators and sixty knights . 
See Lipsius , Saturnalia , l . 
He has happily corrected a passage of Suetonius in Nerone , c . 
Juvenal , in the eighth satire , gives a picturesque description of this combat . 
He received , for each time , decies , about l . 
Victor tells us , that Commodus only allowed his antagonists a . 
weapon , dreading most probably the consequences of their despair . 
They were obliged to repeat , six hundred and twenty six times , Paolus first of the Secutors , c . 
He speaks of his own baseness and danger . 
I never saw him in the senate , says Dion , except during the short reign of Pertinax . 
All his infirmities had suddenly left him , and they returned as suddenly upon the murder of that excellent prince . 
Commodus had now attained the summit of vice and infamy . 
His cruelty proved at last fatal to himself . 
He had shed with impunity the noblest blood of Rome he perished as soon as he was dreaded by his own domestics . 
Marcia seized the occasion of presenting a draught of wine to her lover , after he had fatigued himself with hunting some wild beasts . 
The body was secretly conveyed out of the palace , before the least suspicion was entertained in the city , or even in the court , of the emperor's death . 
The prefects were changed almost hourly or daily and the caprice of Commodus was often fatal to his most favored chamberlains . 
Commodus had already resolved to massacre them the following night they determined o anticipate his design . 
The measures of he conspirators were conducted with the deliberate coolness and celerity which the greatness of the occasion required . 
They resolved instantly to fill the vacant throne with an emperor whose character would justify and maintain the action that had been committed . 
Instead of death , they offered him the throne of the Roman world . 
During some moments he distrusted their intentions and assurances . 
Pertinax was a native of Alba Pompeia , in Piedmont , and son of a timber merchant . 
well deserves to be set down , as expressive of the form of government and manners of the age . 
Praefect of a cohort in Syria , in the Parthian war , and in Britain . 
He obtained an Ala , or squadron of horse , in Maesia . 
He was commissary of provisions on the Aemilian way . 
He commanded the fleet upon the Rhine . 
He was procurator of Dacia , with a salary of about l . 
He commanded the veterans of a legion . 
He obtained the rank of senator . 
With the command of the first legion in Rhaetia and Noricum . 
He was consul about the year . 
He attended Marcus into the East . 
He commanded an army on the Danube . 
He was consular legate of Maesia . 
He had the care of the public provisions at Rome . 
He was proconsul of Africa . 
does justice to his disinterested spirit but Capitolinus , who collected every popular rumor , charges him with a great fortune acquired by bribery and corruption . 
Julian , in the Caesars , taxes him with being accessory to the death of Commodus . 
This important night was now far spent with the dawn of day , and the commencement of the new year , the senators expected a summons to attend an ignominious ceremony . 
The memory of Commodus was branded with eternal infamy . 
The names of tyrant , of gladiator , of public enemy resounded in every corner of the house . 
and this happened the present year , as usual , without any particular order . 
The custom passed from the theatre to the forum , from the forum to the senate . 
Applauses on the adoption of the Imperial decrees were first introduced under Trajan . 
One senator read the form of the decree , and all the rest answered by acclamations , accompanied with a kind of chant or rhythm . 
These were some of the acclamations addressed to Pertinax , and against the memory of Commodus . 
Ut salvi simus , Jupiter , optime , maxime , serva nobis Pertinacem . 
This custom prevailed not only in the councils of state , but in all the meetings of the senate . 
Ferrarius de veterum acclamatione in Graevii Thesaur . 
W. This note is rather hypercritical , as regards Gibbon , but appears to be worthy of preservation . 
M. Capitolinus gives us the particulars of these tumultuary votes , which were moved by one senator , and repeated , or rather chanted by the whole body . 
These effusions of impotent rage against a dead emperor , whom the senate had flattered when alive with the most abject servility , betrayed a just but ungenerous spirit of revenge . 
The legality of these decrees was , however , supported by the principles of the Imperial constitution . 
The senate condemned Nero to be put to death more majorum . 
No particular law assigned this right to the senate it was deduced from the ancient principles of the republic . 
Gibbon appears to infer , from the passage of Suetonius , that the senate , according to its ancient right , punished Nero with death . 
The words , however , more majerum refer not to the decree of the senate , but to the kind of death , which was taken from an old law of Romulus . 
He very frequently invited them to familiar entertainments , the frugality of which was ridiculed by those who remembered and regretted the luxurious prodigality of Commodus . 
like a slave , who had received his intelligence from one the scullions . 
To heal , as far as I was possible , the wounds inflicted by the hand of tyranny , was the pleasing , but melancholy , task of Pertinax . 
The innocent victims , who yet survived , were recalled from exile , released from prison , and restored to the full possession of their honors and fortunes . 
were deposited in the sepulchres of their ancestors their memory was justified and every consolation was bestowed on their ruined and afflicted families . 
Among these consolations , one of the most grateful was the punishment of the Delators the common enemies of their master , of virtue , and of their country . 
Yet even in the inquisition of these legal assassins , Pertinax proceeded with a steady temper , which gave every thing to justice , and nothing to popular prejudice and resentment . 
The finances of the state demanded the most vigilant care of the emperor . 
Economy and industry he considered as the pure and genuine sources of wealth and from them he soon derived a copious supply for the public necessities . 
The expense of the household was immediately reduced to one half . 
The blameless economy of Pius left his successors a treasure of vicies septies millies , above two and twenty millions sterling . 
assigns two secret motives of Pertinax . 
He wished to expose the vices of Commodus , and to discover by the purchasers those who most resembled him . 
Though Capitolinus has picked up many idle tales of the private life of Pertinax , he joins with Dion and Herodian in admiring his public conduct . 
Such a uniform conduct had already secured to Pertinax the noblest reward of a sovereign , the love and esteem of his people . 
Leges , rem surdam , inexorabilem esse . 
Amidst the general joy , the sullen and angry countenance of the Praetorian guards betrayed their inward dissatisfaction . 
They had reluctantly submitted to Pertinax they dreaded the strictness of the ancient discipline , which he was preparing to restore and they regretted the license of the former reign . 
Instead of being dazzled by the dangerous honor , the affrighted victim escaped from their violence , and took refuge at the feet of Pertinax . 
Falco behaved with the most petulant indecency to Pertinax , on the day of his accession . 
The wise emperor only admonished him of his youth and in experience . 
These disappointments served only to irritate the rage of the Praetorian guards . 
Two or three hundred of the most desperate soldiers marched at noonday , with arms in their hands and fury in their looks , towards the Imperial palace . 
The modern bishopric of Liege . 
Lipsius de magnitudine Romana , l . 
Chapter V Sale Of The Empire To Didius Julianus . 
The power of the sword is more sensibly felt in an extensive monarchy , than in a small community . 
It has been calculated by the ablest politicians , that no state , without being soon exhausted , can maintain above the hundredth part of its members in arms and idleness . 
But although this relative proportion may be uniform , the influence of the army over the rest of the society will vary according to the degree of its positive strength . 
The advantages of military science and discipline cannot be exerted , unless a proper number of soldiers are united into one body , and actuated by one soul . 
But after fifty years of peace and servitude , Tiberius ventured on a decisive measure , which forever rivetted the fetters of his country . 
divided into as many cohorts . 
Vitellius increased them to sixteen thousand , and as far as we can learn from inscriptions , they never afterwards sunk much below that number . 
See Lipsius de magnitudine Romana , i . 
In the civil war between Vitellius and Vespasian , the Praetorian camp was attacked and defended with all the machines used in the siege of the best fortified cities . 
Close to the walls of the city , on the broad summit of the Quirinal and Viminal hills . 
See Nardini Roma Antica , p . 
Donatus de Roma Antiqua , p . 
Note Not on both these hills neither Donatus nor Nardini justify this position . 
are some considerable remains of a walled enclosure which bears all the appearance of a Roman camp , and therefore is generally thought to correspond with the Castra Praetoria . 
M. Such formidable servants are always necessary , but often fatal to the throne of despotism . 
Claudius , raised by the soldiers to the empire , was the first who gave a donative . 
He gave quina dena , l . 
when Marcus , with his colleague Lucius Versus , took quiet possession of the throne , he gave vicena , l . 
to each of the guards . 
We may form some idea of the amount of these sums , by Hadrian's complaint that the promotion of a Caesar had cost him ter millies , two millions and a half sterling . 
The election of consuls , of generals , and of magistrates , however it had been recently usurped by the senate , was the ancient and undoubted right of the Roman people . 
These assertions , however defective in reason , became unanswerable when the fierce Praetorians increased their weight , by throwing , like the barbarian conqueror of Rome , their swords into the scale . 
Cicero de Legibus , iii . 
The first book of Livy , and the second of Dionysius of Halicarnassus , show the authority of the people , even in the election of the kings . 
The emperor Otho compliments their vanity with the flattering titles of Italiae , Alumni , Romana were juventus . 
In the siege of Rome by the Gauls . 
The Praetorians had violated the sanctity of the throne by the atrocious murder of Pertinax they dishonored the majesty of it by their subsequent conduct . 
The camp was without a leader , for even the praefect Laetus , who had excited the tempest , prudently declined the public indignation . 
Though the three historians agree that it was in fact an auction , Herodian alone affirms that it was proclaimed as such by the soldiers . 
This infamous offer , the most insolent excess of military license , diffused a universal grief , shame , and indignation throughout the city . 
It reached at length the ears of Didius Julianus , a wealthy senator , who , regardless of the public calamities , was indulging himself in the luxury of the table . 
His wife and his daughter , his freedmen and his parasites , easily convinced him that he deserved the throne , and earnestly conjured him to embrace so fortunate an opportunity . 
The vain old man hastened to the Praetorian camp , where Sulpicianus was still in treaty with the guards , and began to bid against him from the foot of the rampart . 
The unworthy negotiation was transacted by faithful emissaries , who passed alternately from one candidate to the other , and acquainted each of them with the offers of his rival . 
to each soldier when Julian , eager for the prize , rose at once to the sum of six thousand two hundred and fifty drachms , or upwards of two hundred pounds sterling . 
Spartianus softens the most odious parts of the character and elevation of Julian . 
W. It was now incumbent on the Praetorians to fulfil the conditions of the sale . 
The obsequious assembly congratulated their own and the public felicity engaged their allegiance , and conferred on him all the several branches of the Imperial power . 
From the senate Julian was conducted , by the same military procession , to take possession of the palace . 
The first objects that struck his eyes , were the abandoned trunk of Pertinax , and the frugal entertainment prepared for his supper . 
The one he viewed with indifference , the other with contempt . 
A magnificent feast was prepared by his order , and he amused himself , till a very late hour , with dice , and the performances of Pylades , a celebrated dancer . 
Dion Cassius , at that time praetor , had been a personal enemy to Julian , i . 
We learn from thence one curious circumstance , that the new emperor , whatever had been his birth , was immediately aggregated to the number of patrician families . 
Note A new fragment of Dion shows some shrewdness in the character of Julian . 
When the senate voted him a golden statue , he preferred one of brass , as more lasting . 
He had always observed , he said , that the statues of former emperors were soon destroyed . 
Those of brass alone remained . 
The indignant historian adds that he was wrong . 
The virtue of sovereigns alone preserves their images the brazen statue of Julian was broken to pieces at his death . 
I have endeavored to blend into one consistent story the seeming contradictions of the two writers . 
Note The contradiction as M. Guizot observed , is irreconcilable . 
He quotes both passages in one Julianus is represented as a miser , in the other as a voluptuary . 
In the one he refuses to eat till the body of Pertinax has been buried in the other he gluts himself with every luxury almost in the sight of his headless remains . 
M. He had reason to tremble . 
On the throne of the world he found himself without a friend , and even without an adherent . 
But the people , secure in their numbers and obscurity , gave a free vent to their passions . 
The streets and public places of Rome resounded with clamors and imprecations . 
The public discontent was soon diffused from the centre to the frontiers of the empire . 
Their forces were exactly balanced . 
Each of them was at the head of three legions , with a numerous train of auxiliaries and however different in their characters , they were all soldiers of experience and capacity . 
Clodius Albinus , governor of Britain , surpassed both his competitors in the nobility of his extraction , which he derived from some of the most illustrious names of the old republic . 
But the branch from which he claimed his descent was sunk into mean circumstances , and transplanted into a remote province . 
It is difficult to form a just idea of his true character . 
Under the philosophic cloak of austerity , he stands accused of concealing most of the vices which degrade human nature . 
But his accusers are those venal writers who adored the fortune of Severus , and trampled on the ashes of an unsuccessful rival . 
It does not appear that Albinus served the son of Marcus , either as the minister of his cruelties , or even as the associate of his pleasures . 
The governor of Britain wisely declined the dangerous honor , which would have marked him for the jealousy , or involved him in the approaching ruin , of Commodus . 
He courted power by nobler , or , at least , by more specious arts . 
This popular harangue was answered by the loud acclamations of the British legions , and received at Rome with a secret murmur of applause . 
The convulsions of the capital added new weight to his sentiments , or rather to his professions of patriotism . 
The Posthumian and the Ce'onian the former of whom was raised to the consulship in the fifth year after its institution . 
Spartianus , in his undigested collections , mixes up all the virtues and all the vices that enter into the human composition , and bestows them on the same object . 
Such , indeed are many of the characters in the Augustan History . 
Pertinax , who governed Britain a few years before , had been left for dead , in a mutiny of the soldiers . 
Yet they loved and regretted him admirantibus eam virtutem cui irascebantur . 
In his government Niger acquired the esteem of the soldiers and the love of the provincials . 
As soon as the intelligence of the atrocious murder of Pertinax had reached Antioch , the wishes of Asia invited Niger to assume the Imperial purple and revenge his death . 
The Chronicle of John Malala , of Antioch , shows the zealous attachment of his countrymen to these festivals , which at once gratified their superstition , and their love of pleasure . 
A king of Thebes , in Egypt , is mentioned , in the Augustan History , as an ally , and , indeed , as a personal friend of Niger . 
If Spartianus is not , as I strongly suspect , mistaken , he has brought to light a dynasty of tributary princes totally unknown to history . 
A verse in every one's mouth at that time , seems to express the general opinion of the three rivals Optimus est Niger , Fuscus , which preserves the quantity . 
M. bonus After , pessimus Albus . 
The country of Pannonia and Dalmatia , which occupied the space between the Danube and the Hadriatic , was one of the last and most difficult conquests of the Romans . 
The Pannonians yielded at length to the arms and institutions of Rome . 
See an account of that memorable war in Velleius Paterculus , is , c . 
, who served in the army of Tiberius . 
Such is the reflection of Herodian , l . 
with promising every soldier about four hundred pounds an honorable donative , double in value to the infamous bribe with which Julian had purchased the empire . 
In the letter to Albinus , already mentioned , Commodus accuses Severus , as one of the ambitious generals who censured his conduct , and wished to occupy his place . 
Pannonia was too poor to supply such a sum . 
It was probably promised in the camp , and paid at Rome , after the victory . 
In fixing the sum , I have adopted the conjecture of Casaubon . 
or else at Sabaria , according to Victor . 
Note Carnuntum , opposite to the mouth of the Morava its position is doubtful , either Petronel or Haimburg . 
the site of an old town . 
M. The new candidate for empire saw and improved the peculiar advantage of his situation . 
We must reckon the march from the nearest verge of Pannonia , and extend the sight of the city as far as two hundred miles . 
The hasty arrival of every messenger increased his just apprehensions . 
The enemy was now within two hundred and fifty miles of Rome and every moment diminished the narrow span of life and empire allotted to Julian . 
He attempted , however , to prevent , or at least to protract , his ruin . 
This is not a puerile figure of rhetoric , but an allusion to a real fact recorded by Dion , l . 
It probably happened more than once . 
There is no surer proof of the military skill of the Romans , than their first surmounting the idle terror , and afterwards disdaining the dangerous use , of elephants in war . 
Note These elephants were kept for processions , perhaps for the games . 
M. Every motion of Julian betrayed his trembling perplexity . 
He insisted that Severus should be declared a public enemy by the senate . 
He entreated that the Pannonian general might be associated to the empire . 
He sent public ambassadors of consular rank to negotiate with his rival he despatched private assassins to take away his life . 
Note Quae ad speculum dicunt fieri in quo pueri praeligatis oculis , incantate . 
Tuncque puer vidisse dicitur et adventun Severi et Juliani decessionem . 
This seems to have been a practice somewhat similar to that of which our recent Egyptian travellers relate such extraordinary circumstances . 
See also Apulius , Orat . 
M. Chapter V Sale Of The Empire To Didius Julianus . 
His victory was already secure , but the despair of the Praetorians might have rendered it bloody and Severus had the laudable ambition of ascending the throne without drawing the sword . 
That assembly , convoked by the consul , unanimously acknowledged Severus as lawful emperor , decreed divine honors to Pertinax , and pronounced a sentence of deposition and death against his unfortunate successor . 
Victor and Eutropius , viii . 
, mention a combat near the Milvian bridge , the Ponte Molle , unknown to the better and more ancient writers . 
We cannot allow less than ten days after his election , to put a numerous army in motion . 
The first cares of Severus were bestowed on two measures the one dictated by policy , the other by decency the revenge , and the honors , due to the memory of Pertinax . 
He was obeyed by those haughty troops , whose contrition was the effect of their just terrors . 
A chosen part of the Illyrian army encompassed them with levelled spears . 
Incapable of flight or resistance , they expected their fate in silent consternation . 
During the transaction , another detachment had been sent to seize their arms , occupy their camp , and prevent the hasty consequences of their despair . 
The funeral and consecration of Pertinax was next solemnized with every circumstance of sad magnificence . 
The senate , with a melancholy pleasure , performed the last rites to that excellent prince , whom they had loved , and still regretted . 
The concern of his successor was probably less sincere he esteemed the virtues of Pertinax , but those virtues would forever have confined his ambition to a private station . 
who assisted at the ceremony as a senator , gives a most pompous description of it . 
The uncommon abilities and fortune of Severus have induced an elegant historian to compare him with the first and greatest of the Caesars . 
The parallel is , at least , imperfect . 
In less than four years , Severus subdued the riches of the East , and the valor of the West . 
He vanquished two competitors of reputation and ability , and defeated numerous armies , provided with weapons and discipline equal to his own . 
Nature seems incapable of such extraordinary combinations as composed his versatile capacity , which was the wonder even of the Romans themselves . 
Such did Julius Caesar appear to his contemporaries , and to those of the subsequent ages who were the most inclined to deplore and execrate his fatal genius . 
M. Reckoning from his election , April , , to the death of Albinus , February , . 
Yet the arts of Severus cannot be justified by the most ample privileges of state reason . 
If his two competitors , reconciled by their common danger , had advanced upon him without delay , perhaps Severus would have sunk under their united effort . 
Had they even attacked him , at the same time , with separate views and separate armies , the contest might have been long and doubtful . 
In private , he spoke of Niger , his old friend and intended successor , with the most affectionate regard , and highly applauded his generous design of revenging the murder of Pertinax . 
To punish the vile usurper of the throne , was the duty of every Roman general . 
To persevere in arms , and to resist a lawful emperor , acknowledged by the senate , would alone render him criminal . 
The sons of Niger had fallen into his hands among the children of the provincial governors , detained at Rome as pledges for the loyalty of their parents . 
Whilst Severus was very dangerously ill , it was industriously given out , that he intended to appoint Niger and Albinus his successors . 
As he could not be sincere with respect to both , he might not be so with regard to either . 
Yet Severus carried his hypocrisy so far , as to profess that intention in the memoirs of his own life . 
This practice , invented by Commodus , proved very useful to Severus . 
He found at Rome the children of many of the principal adherents of his rivals and he employed them more than once to intimidate , or seduce , the parents . 
The ambiguous conduct of Albinus , in not assuming the Imperial title , left room for negotiation . 
Forgetting , at once , his professions of patriotism , and the jealousy of sovereign power , he accepted the precarious rank of Caesar , as a reward for his fatal neutrality . 
Till the first contest was decided , Severus treated the man , whom he had doomed to destruction , with every mark of esteem and regard . 
The messengers charged with this letter were instructed to accost the Caesar with respect , to desire a private audience , and to plunge their daggers into his heart . 
Spartianus has inserted this curious letter at full length . 
The military labors of Severus seem inadequate to the importance of his conquests . 
The battle of Lyons , where one hundred and fifty thousand Romans were engaged , was equally fatal to Albinus . 
The valor of the British army maintained , indeed , a sharp and doubtful contest , with the hardy discipline of the Illyrian legions . 
The fame and person of Severus appeared , during a few moments , irrecoverably lost , till that warlike prince rallied his fainting troops , and led them on to a decisive victory . 
The war was finished by that memorable day . 
There were three actions one near Cyzicus , on the Hellespont , one near Nice , in Bithynia , the third near the Issus , in Cilicia , where Alexander conquered Darius . 
W Herodian represents the second battle as of less importance than Dion M. Consult the third book of Herodian , and the seventy fourth book of Dion Cassius . 
The battle was fought in the plain of Trevoux , three or four leagues from Lyons . 
According to Herodian , it was his lieutenant Laetus who led back the troops to the battle , and gained the day , which Severus had almost lost . 
Dion also attributes to Laetus a great share in the victory . 
Severus afterwards put him to death , either from fear or jealousy . 
W. and G. Wenck and M. Guizot have not given the real statement of Herodian or of Dion . 
Dion says that he did not move till Severus had won the victory . 
M. The civil wars of modern Europe have been distinguished , not only by the fierce animosity , but likewise by the obstinate perseverance , of the contending factions . 
They have generally been justified by some principle , or , at least , colored by some pretext , of religion , freedom , or loyalty . 
The leaders were nobles of independent property and hereditary influence . 
But the Romans , after the fall of the republic , combated only for the choice of masters . 
Under the standard of a popular candidate for empire , a few enlisted from affection , some from fear , many from interest , none from principle . 
The legions , uninflamed by party zeal , were allured into civil war by liberal donatives , and still more liberal promises . 
Montesquieu , Considerations sur la Grandeur et la Decadence des Romains , c . 
Yet , in the contest between Niger and Severus , a single city deserves an honorable exception . 
Byzantium , at length , surrendered to famine . 
Most of these , as may be supposed , were small open vessels some , however , were galleys of two , and a few of three ranks of oars . 
The engineer's name was Priscus . 
His skill saved his life , and he was taken into the service of the conqueror . 
for the theory of it , the fanciful chevalier de Folard may be looked into . 
There is no contradiction between the relation of Dion and that of Spartianus and the modern Greeks . 
Therefore , when Spartian , Suidas , Cedrenus , say that Severus and his son Antoninus restored to Byzantium its rights and franchises , ordered temples to be built , c . 
, this is easily reconciled with the relation of Dion . 
Perhaps the latter mentioned it in some of the fragments of his history which have been lost . 
G. from W Wenck and M. Guizot have omitted to cite Zosimus , who mentions a particular portico built by Severus , and called , apparently , by his name . 
M. Both Niger and Albinus were discovered and put to death in their flight from the field of battle . 
Their fate excited neither surprise nor compassion . 
But his unforgiving temper , stimulated by avarice , indulged a spirit of revenge , where there was no room for apprehension . 
Till the final decision of the war , the cruelty of Severus was , in some measure , restrained by the uncertainty of the event , and his pretended reverence for the senate . 
The head of Albinus , accompanied with a menacing letter , announced to the Romans that he was resolved to spare none of the adherents of his unfortunate competitors . 
He was irritated by the just auspicion that he had never possessed the affections of the senate , and he concealed his old malevolence under the recent discovery of some treasonable correspondences . 
only twenty nine senators are mentioned by him , but forty one are named in the Augustan History , p . 
, among whom were six of the name of Pescennius . 
speaks in general of the cruelties of Severus . 
Wenck denies that there is any authority for this massacre of the wives of the senators . 
He adds , that only the children and relatives of Niger and Albinus were put to death . 
Among the partisans of Albinus who were put to death were many women of rank , multae foeminae illustres . 
M. ! A new fragment of Dion describes the state of Rome during this contest . 
All pretended to be on the side of Severus but their secret sentiments were often betrayed by a change of countenance on the arrival of some sudden report . 
Some were detected by overacting their loyalty , Mai . 
Severus told the senate he would rather have their hearts than their votes . 
The true interest of an absolute monarch generally coincides with that of his people . 
Severus considered the Roman empire as his property , and had no sooner secured the possession , than he bestowed his care on the cultivation and improvement of so valuable an acquisition . 
Salutary laws , executed with inflexible firmness , soon corrected most of the abuses with which , since the death of Marcus , every part of the government had been infected . 
The misfortunes of civil discord were obliterated . 
He carried his victorious arms to Seleucia and Ctesiphon , the capitals of the Parthian monarchy . 
I shall have occasion to mention this war in its proper place . 
Etiam in Britannis , was his own just and emphatic expression Hist . 
Although the wounds of civil war appeared completely healed , its mortal poison still lurked in the vitals of the constitution . 
By gratitude , by misguided policy , by seeming necessity , Severus was reduced to relax the nerves of discipline . 
The vanity of his soldiers was flattered with the honor of wearing gold rings their ease was indulged in the permission of living with their wives in the idleness of quarters . 
He increased their pay beyond the example of former times , and taught them to expect , and soon to claim , extraordinary donatives on every public occasion of danger or festivity . 
Their officers asserted the superiority of rank by a more profuse and elegant luxury . 
Not of the army , but of the troops in Gaul . 
The contents of this letter seem to prove that Severus was really anxious to restore discipline Herodian is the only historian who accuses him of being the first cause of its relaxation . 
G. from W Spartian mentions his increase of the pays . 
Formerly these troops had been recruited in Italy and as the adjacent provinces gradually imbibed the softer manners of Rome , the levies were extended to Macedonia , Noricum , and Spain . 
By this new institution , the Italian youth were diverted from the exercise of arms , and the capital was terrified by the strange aspect and manners of a multitude of barbarians . 
The command of these favored and formidable troops soon became the first office of the empire . 
In every department of administration , he represented the person , and exercised the authority , of the emperor . 
The first praefect who enjoyed and abused this immense power was Plautianus , the favorite minister of Severus . 
After the fall of Plautianus , an eminent lawyer , the celebrated Papinian , was appointed to execute the motley office of Praetorian Praefect . 
The Praetorian Praefect had never been a simple captain of the guards from the first creation of this office , under Augustus , it possessed great power . 
It appears that it was under Commodus that the Praetorian Praefects obtained the province of civil jurisdiction . 
it extended only to Italy , with the exception of Rome and its district , which was governed by the Praefectus urbi . 
, does not quote one . 
W. This note is not , perhaps , very necessary and does not contain the whole facts . 
Dion considers the conspiracy the invention of Caracalla , by whose command , almost by whose hand , Plautianus was slain in the presence of Severus . 
But the youth of Severus had been trained in the implicit obedience of camps , and his riper years spent in the despotism of military command . 
His haughty and inflexible spirit cou' not discover , or would not acknowledge , the advantage of preserving an intermediate power , however imaginary , between the emperor and the army . 
The victory over the senate was easy and inglorious . 
The fine theory of a republic insensibly vanished , and made way for the more natural and substantial feelings of monarchy . 
In the reign of Severus , the senate was filled with polished and eloquent slaves from the eastern provinces , who justified personal flattery by speculative principles of servitude . 
Dion Cassius seems to have written with no other view than to form these opinions into an historical system . 
The Pandea's will how how assiduously the lawyers , on their side , laboree in the cause of prerogative . 
The contemporaries of Severus in the enjoyment of the peace and glory of his reign , forgave the cruelties by which it had been introduced . 
Posterity , who experienced the fatal effects of his maxims and example , justly considered him as the principal author of the decline of the Roman empire . 
Chapter VI Death Of Severus , Tyranny Of Caracalla , Usurpation Of Marcinus . 
Part I. The Death Of Severus . 
General State Of The Roman Finances . 
This melancholy truth was felt and acknowledged by Severus . 
Fortune and merit had , from an humble station , elevated him to the first place among mankind . 
The desire of perpetuating the greatness of his family was the only remaining wish of his ambition and paternal tenderness . 
Omnia fui , et nihil expedit . 
He had lost his first wife , while he was governor of the Lionnese Gaul . 
deserved all that the stars could promise her . 
Julia applied herself to letters and philosophy , with some success , and with the most splendid reputation . 
She was the patroness of every art , and the friend of every man of genius . 
The learned compiler forgot that Dion is relating not a real fact , but a dream of Severus and dreams are circumscribed to no limits of time or space . 
Did M. de Tillemont imagine that marriages were consummated in the temple of Venus at Rome ? Hist . 
See a dissertation of Menage , at the end of his edition of Diogenes Laertius , de Foeminis Philosophis . 
Two sons , Caracalla and Geta , were the fruit of this marriage , and the destined heirs of the empire . 
Without any emulation of virtue or talents , they discovered , almost from their infancy , a fixed and implacable antipathy for each other . 
Bassianus was his first name , as it had been that of his maternal grandfather . 
During his reign , he assumed the appellation of Antoninus , which is employed by lawyers and ancient historians . 
After his death , the public indignation loaded him with the nicknames of Tarantus and Caracalla . 
The first was borrowed from a celebrated Gladiator , the second from a long Gallic gown which he distributed to the people of Rome . 
The prudent emperor endeavored , by every expedient of advice and authority , to allay this growing animosity . 
The elevation of Caracalla is fixed by the accurate M. de Tillemont to the year the association of Geta to the year . 
The lives of Caracalla and Geta , in the Augustan History . 
In these circumstances the intelligence of a war in Britain , and of an invasion of the province by the barbarians of the North , was received with pleasure by Severus . 
He immediately passed the walls of Hadrian and Antoninus , and entered the enemy's country , with a design of completing the long attempted conquest of Britain . 
He penetrated to the northern extremity of the island , without meeting an enemy . 
The Caledonians at length yielded to the powerful and obstinate attack , sued for peace , and surrendered a part of their arms , and a large tract of territory . 
But their apparent submission lasted no longer than the present terror . 
As soon as the Roman legions had retired , they resumed their hostile independence . 
Their restless spirit provoked Severus to send a new army into Caledonia , with the most bloody orders , not to subdue , but to extirpate the natives . 
They were saved by the death of their haughty enemy . 
Note The historical authority of Macpherson's Ossian has not increased since Gibbon wrote . 
We may , indeed , consider it exploded . 
attempts , not very successfully , to weaken this objection of the historian . 
M. The declining health and last illness of Severus inflamed the wild ambition and black passions of Caracalla's soul . 
The old emperor had often censured the misguided lenity of Marcus , who , by a single act of justice , might have saved the Romans from the tyranny of his worthless son . 
Placed in the same situation , he experienced how easily the rigor of a judge dissolves away in the tenderness of a parent . 
He deliberated , he threatened , but he could not punish and this last and only instance of mercy was more fatal to the empire than a long series of cruelty . 
The disorder of his mind irritated the pains of his body he wished impatiently for death , and hastened the instant of it by his impatience . 
He expired at York in the sixty fifth year of his life , and in the eighteenth of a glorious and successful reign . 
In his last moments he recommended concord to his sons , and his sons to the army . 
Some preeminence of rank seems to have been allowed to the elder brother but they both administered the empire with equal and independent power . 
Such a divided form of government would have proved a source of discord between the most affectionate brothers . 
It was impossible that it could long subsist between two implacable enemies , who neither desired nor could trust a reconciliation . 
On their arrival at Rome , they immediately divided the vast extent of the imperial palace . 
No communication was allowed between their apartments the doors and passages were diligently fortified , and guards posted and relieved with the same strictness as in a besieged place . 
The emperors met only in public , in the presence of their afflicted mother and each surrounded by a numerous train of armed followers . 
Even on these occasions of ceremony , the dissimulation of courts could ill disguise the rancor of their hearts . 
who , on this occasion , represents the Imperial palace as equal in extent to the rest of Rome . 
But we should recollect that the opulent senators had almost surrounded the city with their extensive gardens and suburb palaces , the greatest part of which had been gradually confiscated by the emperors . 
, all skirting round the city , and all connected with each other , and with the palace , by bridges thrown over the Tiber and the streets . 
But this explanation of Herodian would require , though it ill deserves , a particular dissertation , illustrated by a map of ancient Rome . 
This latent civil war already distracted the whole government , when a scheme was suggested that seemed of mutual benefit to the hostile brothers . 
It was proposed , that since it was impossible to reconcile their minds , they should separate their interest , and divide the empire between them . 
The conditions of the treaty were already drawn with some accuracy . 
The tears of the empress Julia interrupted the negotiation , the first idea of which had filled every Roman breast with surprise and indignation . 
The mighty mass of conquest was so intimately united by the hand of time and policy , that it required the most forcible violence to rend it asunder . 
Had the treaty been carried into execution , the sovereign of Europe might soon have been the conqueror of Asia but Caracalla obtained an easier , though a more guilty , victory . 
He artfully listened to his mother's entreaties , and consented to meet his brother in her apartment , on terms of peace and reconciliation . 
In the midst of their conversation , some centurions , who had contrived to conceal themselves , rushed with drawn swords upon the unfortunate Geta . 
The soldiers attempted to raise and comfort him . 
Geta had been the favorite of the soldiers but complaint was useless , revenge was dangerous , and they still reverenced the son of Severus . 
Their discontent died away in idle murmurs , and Caracalla soon convinced them of the justice of his cause , by distributing in one lavish donative the accumulated treasures of his father's reign . 
The real sentiments of the soldiers alone were of importance to his power or safety . 
Their declaration in his favor commanded the dutiful professions of the senate . 
Posterity , in pity to his misfortune , has cast a veil over his vices . 
! Caracalla consecrated , in the temple of Serapis , the sword with which , as he boasted , he had slain his brother Geta . 
See Lipsius de Militia Romana , iv . 
The account of this transaction , in a new passage of Dion , varies in some degree from this statement . 
M. Geta was placed among the gods . 
Sit divus , dum non sit vivus said his brother . 
Some marks of Geta's consecration are still found upon medals . 
W. The crime went not unpunished . 
The consciousness of his crime should have induced him to convince mankind , by the virtues of his reign , that the bloody deed had been the involuntary effect of fatal necessity . 
But the repentance of Caracalla only prompted him to remove from the world whatever could remind him of his guilt , or recall the memory of his murdered brother . 
On his return from the senate to the palace , he found his mother in the company of several noble matrons , weeping over the untimely fate of her younger son . 
It was computed that , under the vague appellation of the friends of Geta , above twenty thousand persons of both sexes suffered death . 
Helvius Pertinax , son to the prince of that name , lost his life by an unseasonable witticism . 
It was a sufficient crime of Thrasea Priscus to be descended from a family in which the love of liberty seemed an hereditary quality . 
From this well grounded principle he frequently drew the most bloody inferences . 
The most valuable paragraph of dion , which the industry of M. Manas recovered , relates to this daughter of Marcus , executed by Caracalla . 
Her name , as appears from Fronto , as well as from Dion , was Cornificia . 
now imprisoned in the body , burst forth ! be free ! show them , however reluctant to believe it , that thou art the daughter of Marcus . 
She then laid aside all her ornaments , and preparing herself for death , ordered her veins to be opened . 
says , that the comic poets no longer durst employ the name of Geta in their plays , and that the estates of those who mentioned it in their testaments were confiscated . 
would be a proper addition to Parthieus , Alemannicus , c . 
He was probably descended from Helvidius Priscus , and Thrasea Paetus , those patriots , whose firm , but useless and unseasonable , virtue has been immortalized by Tacitus . 
M. ! Caracalla reproached all those who demanded no favors of him . 
And forthwith he condemned them as conspirators , a good specimen of the sorites in a tyrant's logic . 
M. Chapter VI Death Of Severus , Tyranny Of Caracalla , Usurpation Of Marcinus . 
The execution of so many innocent citizens was bewailed by the secret tears of their friends and families . 
The death of Papinian , the Praetorian Praefect , was lamented as a public calamity . 
In full assurance of his virtue and abilities , Severus , on his death bed , had conjured him to watch over the prosperity and union of the Imperial family . 
The honest labors of Papinian served only to inflame the hatred which Caracalla had already conceived against his father's minister . 
After the murder of Geta , the Praefect was commanded to exert the powers of his skill and eloquence in a studied apology for that atrocious deed . 
The philosophic Seneca had condescended to compose a similar epistle to the senate , in the name of the son and assassin of Agrippina . 
That it was easier to commit than to justify a parricide , was the glorious reply of Papinian who did not hesitate between the loss of life and that of honor . 
! ! Papinian was no longer Praetorian Praefect . 
Caracalla had deprived him of that office immediately after the death of Severus . 
W. It is said that Papinian was himself a relation of the empress Julia . 
With regard to Papinian , see Heineccius's Historia Juris Roma ni , l . 
It had hitherto been the peculiar felicity of the Romans , and in the worst of times the consolation , that the virtue of the emperors was active , and their vice indolent . 
Augustus , Trajan , Hadrian , and Marcus visited their extensive dominions in person , and their progress was marked by acts of wisdom and beneficence . 
The tyranny of Tiberius , Nero , and Domitian , who resided almost constantly at Rome , or in the adjacent was confined to the senatorial and equestrian orders . 
But Caracalla was the common enemy of mankind . 
about a year after the murder of Geta . 
The rest of his reign was spent in the several provinces of the empire , particularly those of the East , and province was by turns the scene of his rapine and cruelty . 
The most wealthy families ruined by partial fines and confiscations , and the great body of his subjects oppressed by ingenious and aggravated taxes . 
In the midst of peace , and upon the slightest provocation , he issued his commands , at Alexandria , in Egypt for a general massacre . 
Tiberius and Domitian never moved from the neighborhood of Rome . 
Nero made a short journey into Greece . 
Et laudatorum Principum usus ex aequo , quamvis procul agentibus . 
The former represents it as a cruel massacre , the latter as a perfidious one too . 
It seems probable that the Alexandrians has irritated the tyrant by their railleries , and perhaps by their tumults . 
Thus was treated the unhappy Alexandria , says Dion , by the savage beast of Ausonia . 
One dangerous maxim , worthy of a tyrant , was remembered and abused by Caracalla . 
To secure the affections of the army , and to esteem the rest of his subjects as of little moment . 
But the liberality of the father had been restrained by prudence , and his indulgence to the troops was tempered by firmness and authority . 
The careless profusion of the son was the policy of one reign , and the inevitable ruin both of the army and of the empire . 
The vigor of the soldiers , instead of being confirmed by the severe discipline of camps , melted away in the luxury of cities . 
suspects that this maxim was invented by Caracalla himself , and attributed to his father . 
There is another passage in Dion , concerning the military pay , infinitely curious , were it not obscure , imperfect , and probably corrupt . 
These successive augmentations ruined the empire for , with the soldiers' pay , their numbers too were increased . 
We have seen the Praetorians alone increased from , to , men . 
Note Valois and Reimar have explained in a very simple and probable manner this passage of Dion , which Gibbon seems to me not to have understood . 
He ordered that the soldiers should receive , as the reward of their services the Praetorians drachms , the other drachms . 
Valois thinks that the numbers have been transposed , and that Caracalla added drachms to the donations made to the Praetorians , to those of the legionaries . 
The Praetorians , in fact , always received more than the others . 
Augustus had settled that the Praetorians , after sixteen campaigns , should receive drachms the legionaries received only after twenty years . 
Caracalla added drachms to the donative of the Praetorians , to that of the legionaries . 
A secret conspiracy , provoked by his own jealousy , was fatal to the tyrant . 
The Praetorian praefecture was divided between two ministers . 
But his favor varied with the caprice of the emperor , and his life might depend on the slightest suspicion , or the most casual circumstance . 
But , notwithstanding the diligence of the public messengers , a friend of Macrinus found means to apprise him of the approaching danger . 
Macrinus read his fate , and resolved to prevent it . 
He inflamed the discontents of some inferior officers , and employed the hand of Martialis , a desperate soldier , who had been refused the rank of centurion . 
The devotion of Caracalla prompted him to make a pilgrimage from Edessa to the celebrated temple of the Moon at Carrhae . 
The bold assassin was instantly killed by a Scythian archer of the Imperial guard . 
Such was the end of a monster whose life disgraced human nature , and whose reign accused the patience of the Romans . 
Whilst he was upon earth , Alexander the Great was the only hero whom this god deemed worthy his admiration . 
We can easily conceive , that after the battle of Narva , and the conquest of Poland , Charles XII . 
Carrhae , now Harran , between Edessan and Nisibis , famous for the defeat of Crassus the Haran from whence Abraham set out for the land of Canaan . 
This city has always been remarkable for its attachment to Sabaism G Dion , l . 
The fondness of Caracalla for the name and ensigns of Alexander is still preserved on the medals of that emperor . 
See Spanheim , de Usu Numismatum , Dissertat . 
had seen very ridiculous pictures , in which a figure was drawn with one side of the face like Alexander , and the other like Caracalla . 
After the extinction of the house of Severus , the Roman world remained three days without a master . 
hung in anxious suspense , as no candidate presented himself whose distinguished birth and merit could engage their attachment and unite their suffrages . 
The decisive weight of the Praetorian guards elevated the hopes of their praefects , and these powerful ministers began to assert their legal claim to fill the vacancy of the Imperial throne . 
The troops neither loved nor esteemed his character . 
They cast their eyes around in search of a competitor , and at last yielded with reluctance to his promises of unbounded liberality and indulgence . 
A short time after his accession , he conferred on his son Diadumenianus , at the age of only ten years , the Imperial title , and the popular name of Antoninus . 
The authority of the new sovereign had been ratified by the cheerful submission of the senate and provinces . 
They exulted in their unexpected deliverance from a hated tyrant , and it seemed of little consequence to examine into the virtues of the successor of Caracalla . 
But Macrinus was not a senator . 
As soon as the character of Macrinus was surveyed by the sharp eye of discontent , some vices , and many defects , were easily discovered . 
The choice of his ministers was in many instances justly censured , and the dissastified dissatisfied people , with their usual candor , accused at once his indolent tameness and his excessive severity . 
The personal favor of Plautianus and Sejanus had broke through the established rule . 
They rose , indeed , from the equestrian order but they preserved the praefecture , with the rank of senator and even with the annulship . 
He was a native of Caesarea , in Numidia , and began his fortune by serving in the household of Plautian , from whose ruin he narrowly escaped . 
His enemies asserted that he was born a slave , and had exercised , among other infamous professions , that of Gladiator . 
The fashion of aspersing the birth and condition of an adversary seems to have lasted from the time of the Greek orators to the learned grammarians of the last age . 
His rash ambition had climbed a height where it was difficult to stand with firmness , and impossible to fall without instant destruction . 
In the management of this necessary reformation , Macrinus proceeded with a cautious prudence , which would have restored health and vigor to the Roman army in an easy and almost imperceptible manner . 
One fatal error destroyed the salutary effects of this judicious plan . 
In the luxurious idleness of their quarters , the troops viewed their strength and numbers , communicated their complaints , and revolved in their minds the advantages of another revolution . 
The veterans , instead of being flattered by the advantageous distinction , were alarmed by the first steps of the emperor , which they considered as the presage of his future intentions . 
The recruits , with sullen reluctance , entered on a service , whose labors were increased while its rewards were diminished by a covetous and unwarlike sovereign . 
To minds thus disposed , the occasion soon presented itself . 
History of Rome , p . 
The empress Julia had experienced all the vicissitudes of fortune . 
From an humble station she had been raised to greatness , only to taste the superior bitterness of an exalted rank . 
She was doomed to weep over the death of one of her sons , and over the life of the other . 
The cruel fate of Caracalla , though her good sense must have long taught' er to expect it , awakened the feelings of a mother and of an empress . 
Julia Maesa , her sister , was ordered to leave the court and Antioch . 
The abridgment of Xiphilin , though less particular , is in this place clearer than the original . 
She wished to tread in the steps of Semiramis and Nitocris , whose country bordered on her own . 
Macrinus sent her an order immediately to leave Antioch , and to retire wherever she chose . 
She returned to her former purpose , and starved herself to death . 
G. ! He inherited this name from his great grandfather of the mother's side , Bassianus , father of Julia Maesa , his grandmother , and of Julia Domna , wife of Severus . 
is perhaps the only historian who has given the key to this genealogy , when speaking of Caracalla . 
His Bassianus ex avi materni nomine dictus . 
Caracalla , Elagabalus , and Alexander Seyerus , bore successively this name . 
Alexander Severus lived twenty nine years three months and seven days . 
As he was killed March , , he was born December , and was consequently about this time thirteen years old , as his elder cousin might be about seventeen . 
who represents them as three years younger whilst , by an opposite error of chronology , he lengthens the reign of Elagabalus two years beyond its real duration . 
For the particulars of the conspiracy , see Dion , l . 
At length he marched out of Antioch , to meet the increasing and zealous army of the young pretender . 
The battle still raged with doubtful violence , and Macrinus might have obtained the victory , had he not betrayed his own cause by a shameful and precipitate flight . 
His cowardice served only to protract his life a few days , and to stamp deserved ignominy on his misfortunes . 
It is scarcely necessary to add , that his son Diadumenianus was involved in the same fate . 
By a most dangerous proclamation of the pretended Antoninus , every soldier who brought in his officer's head became entitled to his private estate , as well as to his military commission . 
The battle was fought near the village of Immae , about two and twenty miles from Antioch . 
Gannys was not a eunuch . 
This new and injudicious violation of the constitution was probably dictated either by the ignorance of his Syrian courtiers , or the fierce disdain of his military followers . 
His eyebrows were tinged with black , and his cheeks painted with an artificial red and white . 
To this protecting deity , Antoninus , not without some reason , ascribed his elevation to the throne . 
The display of superstitious gratitude was the only serious business of his reign . 
was dearer to him than all the titles of Imperial greatness . 
The pious emperor held the reins , and , supported by his ministers , moved slowly backwards , that he might perpetually enjoy the felicity of the divine presence . 
In a magnificent temple raised on the Palatine Mount , the sacrifices of the god Elagabalus were celebrated with every circumstance of cost and solemnity . 
The richest wines , the most extraordinary victims , and the rarest aromatics , were profusely consumed on his altar . 
Wotton's History of Rome , p . 
Note The name of Elagabalus has been disfigured in various ways . 
Herodian calls him Lampridius , and the more modern writers , make him Heliogabalus . 
Dion calls him Elegabalus but Elegabalus was the true name , as it appears on the medals . 
As to its etymology , that which Gibbon adduces is given by Bochart , Chan . 
but Salmasius , on better grounds . 
or great stone cut to a point , with marks which represent the sun . 
G. The name of Elagabalus , in nummis rarius legetur . 
Chapter VI Death Of Severus , Tyranny Of Caracalla , Usurpation Of Marcinus . 
New terms and new inventions in these sciences , the only ones cultivated and patronized by the monarch , signalized his reign , and transmitted his infamy to succeeding times . 
A dancer was made praefect of the city , a charioteer praefect of the watch , a barber praefect of the provisions . 
These three ministers , with many inferior officers , were all recommended enormitate membrorum . 
It may seem probable , the vices and follies of Elagabalus have been adorned by fancy , and blackened by prejudice . 
Yet , confining ourselves to the public scenes displayed before the Roman people , and attested by grave and contemporary historians , their inexpressible infamy surpasses that of any other age or country . 
The license of an eastern monarch is secluded from the eye of curiosity by the inaccessible walls of his seraglio . 
Secure of impunity , careless of censure , they lived without restraint in the patient and humble society of their slaves and parasites . 
The emperor , in his turn , viewing every rank of his subjects with the same contemptuous indifference , asserted without control his sovereign privilege of lust and luxury . 
is inclined to suspect that his vices may have been exaggerated . 
Wenck has justly observed that Gibbon should have reckoned the influence of Christianity in this great change . 
In the most savage times , and the most corrupt courts , since the introduction of Christianity there have been no Neros or Domitians , no Commodus or Elagabalus . 
The crafty Maesa , sensible that her grandson Elagabalus must inevitably destroy himself by his own vices , had provided another and surer support of her family . 
The message was received in the senate with silence , and in the camp with fury . 
The Praetorian guards swore to protect Alexander , and to revenge the dishonored majesty of the throne . 
The last of the three historians seems to have followed the best authors in his account of the revolution . 
It was impossible that such a reconciliation should last , or that even the mean soul of Elagabalus could hold an empire on such humiliating terms of dependence . 
He soon attempted , by a dangerous experiment , to try the temper of the soldiers . 
Provoked at this new instance of their affection for his cousin , and their contempt for his person , the emperor ventured to punish some of the leaders of the mutiny . 
His unseasonable severity proved instantly fatal to his minions , his mother , and himself . 
Elagabalus was massacred by the indignant Praetorians , his mutilated corpse dragged through the streets of the city , and thrown into the Tiber . 
His memory was branded with eternal infamy by the senate the justice of whose decree has been ratified by posterity . 
Elagabalus reigned three years nine months and four days , from his victory over Macrinus , and was killed March , . 
During the years , , , he enjoyed the tribunate , and commenced his fifth in the year , during which be was killed on the th March . 
G. In the room of Elagabalus , his cousin Alexander was raised to the throne by the Praetorian guards . 
After the death of the latter , who survived but a short time the elevation of Alexander , Mamaea remained the sole regent of her son and of the empire . 
By this unusual precipitation , the senate meant to confound the hopes of pretenders , and prevent the factions of the armies . 
The substance , not the pageantry , of power . 
was the object of Mamaea's manly ambition . 
She maintained an absolute and lasting empire over the mind of her son , and in his affection the mother could not brook a rival . 
The patrician was executed on the ready accusation of treason , and the wife of Alexander driven with ignominy from the palace , and banished into Africa . 
Herodian represents the patrician as innocent . 
The Augustian History , on the authority of Dexippus , condemns him , as guilty of a conspiracy against the life of Alexander . 
Learning , and the love of justice , became the only recommendations for civil offices valor , and the love of discipline , the only qualifications for military employments . 
The fortunate soil assisted , and even prevented , the hand of cultivation . 
An excellent understanding soon convinced Alexander of the advantages of virtue , the pleasure of knowledge , and the necessity of labor . 
A natural mildness and moderation of temper preserved him from the assaults of passion , and the allurements of vice . 
His unalterable regard for his mother , and his esteem for the wise Ulpian , guarded his unexperienced youth from the poison of flattery . 
Alexander received into his chapel all the religions which prevailed in the empire he admitted Jesus Christ , Abraham , Orpheus , Apollonius of Tyana , c . 
It was almost certain that his mother Mamaea had instructed him in the morality of Christianity . 
Historians in general agree in calling her a Christian there is reason to believe that she had begun to have a taste for the principles of Christianity . 
claimed , not the property , but possession by custom . 
Alexander answered , that it was better that the place should be used for the service of God , in any form , than for victuallers . 
The dryness of business was relieved by the charms of literature and a portion of time was always set apart for his favorite studies of poetry , history , and philosophy . 
The works of Virgil and Horace , the republics of Plato and Cicero , formed his taste , enlarged his understanding , and gave him the noblest ideas of man and government . 
The exercises of the body succeeded to those of the mind and Alexander , who was tall , active , and robust , surpassed most of his equals in the gymnastic arts . 
See his life in the Augustan History . 
The undistinguishing compiler has buried these interesting anecdotes under a load of trivial unmeaning circumstances . 
See the th Satire of Juvenal . 
Since the accession of Commodus , the Roman world had experienced , during the term of forty years , the successive and various vices of four tyrants . 
From the death of Elagabalus , it enjoyed an auspicious calm of thirteen years . 
The dignity , the freedom , the authority of the senate was restored and every virtuous senator might approach the person of the emperor without a fear and without a blush . 
Wenck observes that Gibbon , enchanted with the virtue of Alexander has heightened , particularly in this sentence , its effect on the state of the world . 
His own account , which follows , of the insurrections and foreign wars , is not in harmony with this beautiful picture . 
M. The name of Antoninus , ennobled by the virtues of Pius and Marcus , had been communicated by adoption to the dissolute Verus , and by descent to the cruel Commodus . 
It became the honorable appellation of the sons of Severus , was bestowed on young Diadumenianus , and at length prostituted to the infamy of the high priest of Emesa . 
See , in the Hist . 
, , the whole contest between Alexander and the senate , extracted from the journals of that assembly . 
It happened on the sixth of March , probably of the year , when the Romans had enjoyed , almost a twelvemonth , the blessings of his reign . 
Before the appellation of Antoninus was offered him as a title of honor , the senate waited to see whether Alexander would not assume it as a family name . 
In the civil administration of Alexander , wisdom was enforced by power , and the people , sensible of the public felicity , repaid their benefactor with their love and gratitude . 
In the execution of his design , the emperor affected to display his love , and to conceal his fear of the army . 
The most rigid economy in every other branch of the administration supplied a fund of gold and silver for the ordinary pay and the extraordinary rewards of the troops . 
In their marches he relaxed the severe obligation of carrying seventeen days' provision on their shoulders . 
Ample magazines were formed along the public roads , and as soon as they entered the enemy's country , a numerous train of mules and camels waited on their haughty laziness . 
But his prudence was vain , his courage fatal , and the attempt towards a reformation served only to inflame the ills it was meant to cure . 
It was a favorite saying of the emperor's Se milites magis servare , quam seipsum , quod salus publica in his esset . 
The Praetorian guards were attached to the youth of Alexander . 
They loved him as a tender pupil , whom they had saved from a tyrant's fury , and placed on the Imperial throne . 
Such was the deplorable weakness of government , that the emperor was unable to revenge his murdered friend and his insulted dignity , without stooping to the arts of patience and dissimulation . 
The historian Dion Cassius had commanded the Pannonian legions with the spirit of ancient discipline . 
Their brethren of Rome , embracing the common cause of military license , demanded the head of the reformer . 
Gibbon has confounded two events altogether different the quarrel of the people with the Praetorians , which lasted three days , and the assassination of Ulpian by the latter . 
But Ulpian was not the cause . 
attributes this sentence to Mamaera but , even then , the troops might have imputed it to Ulpian , who had reaped all the advantage and was otherwise odious to them . 
mentions the sedition raised against Ulpian by the soldiers , he conceals the catastrophe , as it might discover a weakness in the administration of his hero . 
From this designed omission , we may judge of the weight and candor of that author . 
For an account of Ulpian's fate and his own danger , see the mutilated conclusion of Dion's History , l . 
Dion possessed no estates in Campania , and was not rich . 
it was there that he finished his history , which closes with his second consulship . 
W. Chapter VI Death Of Severus , Tyranny Of Caracalla , Usurpation Of Marcinus . 
The lenity of the emperor confirmed the insolence of the troops the legions imitated the example of the guards , and defended their prerogative of licentiousness with the same furious obstinacy . 
The administration of Alexander was an unavailing struggle against the corruption of his age . 
One particular fact well deserves to be recorded , as it illustrates the manners of the troops , and exhibits a singular instance of their return to a sense of duty and obedience . 
Their clamors interrupted his mild expostulation . 
Reserve your shout , said the undaunted emperor , till you take the field against the Persians , the Germans , and the Sarmatians . 
Be silent in the presence of your sovereign and benefactor , who bestows upon you the corn , the clothing , and the money of the provinces . 
His menaces inflamed the fury of the legion , and their brandished arms already threatened his person . 
The grateful legion served the emperor whilst living , and revenged him when dead . 
ad Dion Cassius , l . 
The abilities of that amiable prince seem to have been inadequate to the difficulties of his situation , the firmness of his conduct inferior to the purity of his intentions . 
The fatigues of the Persian war irritated the military discontent the unsuccessful event degraded the reputation of the emperor as a general , and even as a soldier . 
Every cause prepared , and every circumstance hastened , a revolution , which distracted the Roman empire with a long series of intestine calamities . 
In one short period of twelve years , the Metelli could reckon seven consulships and five triumphs . 
See Velleius Paterculus , ii . 
The life of Alexander , in the Augustan History , is the mere idea of a perfect prince , an awkward imitation of the Cyropaedia . 
Yet from a very paltry prejudice , the greater number of our modern writers abuse Herodian , and copy the Augustan History . 
See Mess de Tillemont and Wotton . 
dwells with a visible satisfaction on the effeminate weakness of the Syrian , and the ridiculous avarice of his mother . 
Historians are divided as to the success of the campaign against the Persians Herodian alone speaks of defeat . 
received the honors of a triumph , and that he said , in his oration to the people . 
Quirites , vicimus Persas , milites divites reduximus , vobis congiarium pollicemur , cras ludos circenses Persicos donabimus . 
The medals represent him as in triumph one , among others , displays him crowned by Victory between two rivers , the Euphrates and the Tigris . 
S. parazonium , stat inter duos fluvios humi jacentes , et ab accedente retro Victoria coronatur . 
Although Gibbon treats this question more in detail when he speaks of the Persian monarchy , I have thought fit to place here what contradicts his opinion . 
The internal change , which undermined the foundations of the empire , we have endeavored to explain with some degree of order and perspicuity . 
During more than two hundred years after the conquest of Veii , the victories of the republic added less to the wealth than to the power of Rome . 
cheerfully submitted to the most excessive but voluntary burdens , in the just confidence that they should speedily enjoy the rich harvest of their labors . 
Their expectations were not disappointed . 
In the course of a few years , the riches of Syracuse , of Carthage , of Macedonia , and of Asia , were brought in triumph to Rome . 
The treasures of Perseus alone amounted to near two millions sterling , and the Roman people , the sovereign of so many nations , was forever delivered from the weight of taxes . 
Note See the interesting account of the site and ruins of Veii in Sir W Gell's topography of Rome and its Vicinity . 
M. See the th and th books of Livy . 
In the Roman census , property , power , and taxation were commensurate with each other . 
See a fine description of this accumulated wealth of ages in Phars . 
Gaul was enriched by rapine , as Egypt was by commerce , and the tributes of those two great provinces have been compared as nearly equal to each other in value . 
Compare besides Tacitus , Suet . 
Other emperors kept and published similar registers . 
See a dissertation of Dr . 
Wolle , de Rationario imperii Rom . 
The last book of Appian also contained the statistics of the Roman empire , but it is lost . 
It seems to have existed in the time of Appian . 
Plutarch , in Pompeio , p . 
Wenck adds , Plutarch says in another part , that Antony made Asia pay , at one time , , talents , that is to say , , , l . 
But Appian explains this by saying that it was the revenue of ten years , which brings the annual revenue , at the time of Antonv , to , l . 
He seems to give the preference to the revenue of Gaul . 
The Euboic , the Phoenician , and the Alexandrian talents were double in weight to the Attic . 
See Hooper on ancient weights and measures , p . 
It is very probable that the same talent was carried from Tyre to Carthage . 
Appian in Punicis , p . 
Spain , by a very singular fatality , was the Peru and Mexico of the old world . 
Mention is made of a mine near Carthagena which yielded every day twenty five thousand drachmns of silver , or about three hundred thousand pounds a year . 
Twenty thousand pound weight of gold was annually received from the provinces of Asturia , Gallicia , and Lusitania . 
Oadiz was built by the Phoenicians a little more than a thousand years before Christ . 
He mentions likewise a silver mine in Dalmatia , that yielded every day fifty pounds to the state . 
We want both leisure and materials to pursue this curious inquiry through the many potent states that were annihilated in the Roman empire . 
Augustus once received a petition from the inhabitants of Gyarus , humbly praying that they might be relieved from one third of their excessive impositions . 
a very lively picture of the actual misery of Gyarus . 
computes the revenue at one hundred and fifty millions of gold crowns but his whole book , though learned and ingenious , betrays a very heated imagination . 
Note If Justus Lipsius has exaggerated the revenue of the Roman empire Gibbon , on the other hand , has underrated it . 
He fixes it at fifteen or twenty millions of our money . 
There remain also the provinces of Italy , of Rhaetia , of Noricum , Pannonia , and Greece , c . 
we shall see that such a revenue could not be sufficient . 
The authors of the Universal History , part xii . 
, assign forty millions sterling as the sum to about which the public revenue might amount . 
G. from W. Notwithstanding the seeming probability of both these conclusions , the latter of them at least is positively disowned by the language and conduct of Augustus . 
! In the prosecution of this unpopular design , he advanced , however , by cautious and well weighed steps . 
! It is not astonishing that Augustus held this language . 
The senate declared also under Nero , that the state could not exist without the imposts as well augmented as founded by Augustus . 
and Ciero laments this in many places , particularly in his epistles to ii . 
G. from W. I. In a great empire like that of Rome , a natural balance of money must have gradually established itself . 
We may observe that the use and value of those effeminate slaves gradually rose with the decline of the empire . 
existed in the times of the ancient kings of Rome . 
They were suppressed in Italy , A. U. , by the Praetor , Cecilius Matellus Nepos . 
The ancients were unacquainted with the art of cutting diamonds . 
M. Bouchaud , in his treatise de l'Impot chez les Romains , has transcribed this catalogue from the Digest , and attempts to illustrate it by a very prolix commentary . 
Note In the Pandects , l . 
The excise , introduced by Augustus after the civil wars , was extremely moderate , but it was general . 
It seldom exceeded one per cent . 
Such a tax , as it affects the body of the people , has ever been the occasion of clamor and discontent . 
Two years afterwards , the reduction of the poor kingdom of Cappadocia gave Tiberius a pretence for diminishing the excise of one half , but the relief was of very short duration . 
The ample revenue of the excise , though peculiarly appropriated to those uses , was found inadequate . 
To supply the deficiency , the emperor suggested a new tax of five per cent . 
on all legacies and inheritances . 
But the nobles of Rome were more tenacious of property than of freedom . 
Their indignant murmurs were received by Augustus with his usual temper . 
He candidly referred the whole business to the senate , and exhorted them to provide for the public service by some other expedient of a less odious nature . 
They were divided and perplexed . 
He insinuated to them , that their obstinacy would oblige him to propose a general land tax and capitation . 
The new imposition on legacies and inheritances was , however , mitigated by some restrictions . 
Note Dion neither mentions this proposition nor the capitation . 
The senators then preferred giving the tax on legacies and inheritances . 
W. The sum is only fixed by conjecture . 
As the Roman law subsisted for many ages , the Cognati , or relations on the mother's side , were not called to the succession . 
This harsh institution was gradually undermined by humanity , and finally abolished by Justinian . 
But a rich childish old man was a domestic tyrant , and his power increased with his years and infirmities . 
Yet , while so many unjust and extravagant wills were every day dictated by cunning and subscribed by folly , a few were the result of rational esteem and virtuous gratitude . 
See Heineccius in the Antiquit . 
Every such will gave him an occasion of displaying his reverence to the dead , and his justice to the living . 
The wisest senators applauded his magnanimity but they diverted him from the execution of a design which would have dissolved the strength and resources of the republic . 
Satisfied , however , with alleviating the public burden , they attempted not to remove it . 
Esprit des Loix , l . 
See Pliny's Panegyric , the Augustan History , and Burman de Vectigal . 
were not farmed since the good princes often remitted many millions of arrears . 
The sentiments , and , indeed , the situation , of Caracalla were very different from those of the Antonines . 
Inattentive , or rather averse , to the welfare of his people , he found himself under the necessity of gratifying the insatiate avarice which he had excited in the army . 
Of the several impositions introduced by Augustus , the twentieth on inheritances and legacies was the most fruitful , as well as the most comprehensive . 
As its influence was not confined to Rome or Italy , the produce continually increased with the gradual extension of the Roman City . 
Nor was the rapacious son of Severus contented with such a measure of taxation as had appeared sufficient to his moderate predecessors . 
he crushed alike every part of the empire under the weight of his iron sceptre . 
The situation of the new citizens is minutely described by Pliny , . 
Trajan published a law very much in their favor . 
Gibbon has adopted the opinion of Spanheim and of Burman , which attributes to Caracalla this edict , which gave the right of the city to all the inhabitants of the provinces . 
This opinion may be disputed . 
Several passages of Spartianus , of Aurelius Victor , and of Aristides , attribute this edict to Marc . 
See a learned essay , entitled Joh . 
Antonino Constitutionis de Civitate Universo Orbi Romano data auctore . 
Such were not the maxims of government adopted by Caracalla and his pretended son . 
The old as well as the new taxes were , at the same time , levied in the provinces . 
He who paid ten aurei , the usual tribute , was charged with no more than the third part of an aureus , and proportional pieces of gold were coined by Alexander's order . 
, with the commentary of Salmasius . 
As long as Rome and Italy were respected as the centre of government , a national spirit was preserved by the ancient , and insensibly imbibed by the adopted , citizens . 
To their influence and example we may partly ascribe the modest obedience of the legions during the two first centuries of the Imperial history . 
See the lives of Agricola , Vespasian , Trajan , Severus , and his three competitors and indeed of all the eminent men of those times . 
But when the last enclosure of the Roman constitution was trampled down by Caracalla , the separation of professions gradually succeeded to the distinction of ranks . 
The more polished citizens of the internal provinces were alone qualified to act as lawyers and magistrates . 
With bloody hands , savage manners , and desperate resolutions , they sometimes guarded , but much oftener subverted , the throne of the emperors . 
Chapter VII Tyranny Of Maximin , Rebellion , Civil Wars , Death Of Maximin . 
Part I. The Elevation And Tyranny Of Maximin . 
Rebellion In Africa And Italy , Under The Authority Of The Senate . 
Violent Deaths Of Maximin And His Son , Of Maximus And Balbinus , And Of The Three Gordians . 
Usurpation And Secular Games Of Philip . 
Of the various forms of government which have prevailed in the world , an hereditary monarchy seems to present the fairest scope for ridicule . 
Justice , humanity , or political wisdom , are qualities they are too little acquainted with in themselves , to appreciate them in others . 
The superior prerogative of birth , when it has obtained the sanction of time and popular opinion , is the plainest and least invidious of all distinctions among mankind . 
The acknowledged right extinguishes the hopes of faction , and the conscious security disarms the cruelty of the monarch . 
To the firm establishment of this idea we owe the peaceful succession and mild administration of European monarchies . 
To the defect of it we must attribute the frequent civil wars , through which an Asiatic despot is obliged to cut his way to the throne of his fathers . 
But the Roman empire , after the authority of the senate had sunk into contempt , was a vast scene of confusion . 
The royal , and even noble , families of the provinces had long since been led in triumph before the car of the haughty republicans . 
The right to the throne , which none could claim from birth , every one assumed from merit . 
There had been no example of three successive generations on the throne only three instances of sons who succeeded their fathers . 
His victory was rewarded by some trifling gifts , and a permission to enlist in the troops . 
The next day , the happy barbarian was distinguished above a crowd of recruits , dancing and exulting after the fashion of his country . 
A gold collar was the prize of his matchless vigor and activity , and he was immediately appointed to serve in the horseguards who always attended on the person of the sovereign . 
Maximin , for that was his name , though born on the territories of the empire , descended from a mixed race of barbarians . 
His father was a Goth , and his mother of the nation of the Alani . 
He displayed on every occasion a valor equal to his strength and his native fierceness was soon tempered or disguised by the knowledge of the world . 
Gratitude forbade Maximin to serve under the assassin of Caracalla . 
Honor taught him to decline the effeminate insults of Elagabalus . 
On the accession of Alexander he returned to court , and was placed by that prince in a station useful to the service , and honorable to himself . 
The fourth legion , to which he was appointed tribune , soon became , under his care , the best disciplined of the whole army . 
By comparing these authors , it should seem that Maximin had the particular command of the Tribellian horse , with the general commission of disciplining the recruits of the whole army . 
His biographer ought to have marked , with more care , his exploits , and the successive steps of his military promotions . 
See the original letter of Alexander Severus , Hist . 
The troops listened with pleasure to the emissaries of Maximin . 
The important care of training and reviewing the new levies was intrusted to Maximin . 
The circumstances of his death are variously related . 
The son of Mamaea , betrayed and deserted , withdrew into his tent , desirous at least to conceal his approaching fate from the insults of the multitude . 
His mother , Mamaea , whose pride and avarice he loudly accused as the cause of his ruin , perished with her son . 
The most faithful of his friends were sacrificed to the first fury of the soldiers . 
Others were reserved for the more deliberate cruelty of the usurper and those who experienced the mildest treatment , were stripped of their employments , and ignominiously driven from the court and army . 
I have softened some of the most improbable circumstances of this wretched biographer . 
The cruelty of Maximin was derived from a different source , the fear of contempt . 
He recollected too the friendship of a few who had relieved his poverty , and assisted his rising hopes . 
But those who had spurned , and those who had protected , the Thracian , were guilty of the same crime , the knowledge of his original obscurity . 
It appears that he was totally ignorant of the Greek language which , from its universal use in conversation and letters , was an essential part of every liberal education . 
The latter of these historians has been most unjustly censured for sparing the vices of Maximin . 
The dark and sanguinary soul of the tyrant was open to every suspicion against those among his subjects who were the most distinguished by their birth or merit . 
Whenever he was alarmed with the sound of treason , his cruelty was unbounded and unrelenting . 
A conspiracy against his life was either discovered or imagined , and Magnus , a consular senator , was named as the principal author of it . 
Without a witness , without a trial , and without an opportunity of defence , Magnus , with four thousand of his supposed accomplices , was put to death . 
Italy and the whole empire were infested with innumerable spies and informers . 
Confiscation , exile , or simple death , were esteemed uncommon instances of his lenity . 
During the three years of his reign , he disdained to visit either Rome or Italy . 
The wife of Maximin , by insinuating wise counsels with female gentleness , sometimes brought back the tyrant to the way of truth and humanity . 
See Ammianus Marcellinus , l . 
l , where he alludes to the fact which he had more fully related under the reign of the Gordians . 
We may collect from the medals , that Paullina was the name of this benevolent empress and from the title of Diva , that she died before Maximin . 
Spanheim de U. et P. N. tom . 
Note If we may believe Syrcellus and Zonaras , in was Maximin himself who ordered her death G He was compared to Spartacus and Athenio . 
But the tyrant's avarice , stimulated by the insatiate desires of the soldiers , at length attacked the public property . 
Every city of the empire was possessed of an independent revenue , destined to purchase corn for the multitude , and to supply the expenses of the games and entertainments . 
By a single act of authority , the whole mass of wealth was at once confiscated for the use of the Imperial treasury . 
The temples were stripped of their most valuable offerings of gold and silver , and the statues of gods , heroes , and emperors , were melted down and coined into money . 
The procurator of Africa was a servant worthy of such a master , who considered the fines and confiscations of the rich as one of the most fruitful branches of the Imperial revenue . 
An iniquitous sentence had been pronounced against some opulent youths of that country , the execution of which would have stripped them of far the greater part of their patrimony . 
In this extremity , a resolution that must either complete or prevent their ruin , was dictated by despair . 
In the fertile territory of Byzacium , one hundred and fifty miles to the south of Carthage . 
This city was decorated , probably by the Gordians , with the title of colony , and with a fine amphitheatre , which is still in a very perfect state . 
and Shaw's Travels , p . 
The family of Gordianus was one of the most illustrious of the Roman senate . 
On the father's side he was descended from the Gracchi on his mother's , from the emperor Trajan . 
A great estate enabled him to support the dignity of his birth , and in the enjoyment of it , he displayed an elegant taste and beneficent disposition . 
The palace in Rome , formerly inhabited by the great Pompey , had been , during several generations , in the possession of Gordian's family . 
It was distinguished by ancient trophies of naval victories , and decorated with the works of modern painting . 
With the venerable proconsul , his son , who had accompanied him into Africa as his lieutenant , was likewise declared emperor . 
His manners were less pure , but his character was equally amiable with that of his father . 
The celebrated house of Pompey in carinis was usurped by Marc Antony , and consequently became , after the Triumvir's death , a part of the Imperial domain . 
and it may seem probable , that , on this occasion , Pompey's house came into the possession of Gordian's great grandfather . 
The Claudian , the Numidian , the Carystian , and the Synnadian . 
The colors of Roman marbles have been faintly described and imperfectly distinguished . 
It appears , however , that the Carystian was a sea green , and that the marble of Synnada was white mixed with oval spots of purple . 
He sometimes gave five hundred pair of gladiators , never less than one hundred and fifty . 
He once gave for the use of the circus one hundred Sicilian , and as many Cappaecian Cappadecian horses . 
The animals designed for hunting were chiefly bears , boars , bulls , stags , elks , wild asses , c . 
Elephants and lions seem to have been appropriated to Imperial magnificence . 
See the original letter , in the Augustan History , p . 
, which at once shows Alexander's respect for the authority of the senate , and his esteem for the proconsul appointed by that assembly . 
Herodian expressly says that he had administered many provinces , lib . 
W. By each of his concubines , the younger Gordian left three or four children . 
His literary productions , though less numerous , were by no means contemptible . 
! Not the personal likeness , but the family descent from the Scipiod . 
W. As soon as the Gordians had appeased the first tumult of a popular election , they removed their court to Carthage . 
They were received with the acclamations of the Africans , who honored their virtues , and who , since the visit of Hadrian , had never beheld the majesty of a Roman emperor . 
But these vain acclamations neither strengthened nor confirmed the title of the Gordians . 
The inclinations of the senate were neither doubtful nor divided . 
The birth and noble alliances of the Gordians had intimately connected them with the most illustrious houses of Rome . 
Their fortune had created many dependants in that assembly , their merit had acquired many friends . 
Their mild administration opened the flattering prospect of the restoration , not only of the civil but even of the republican government . 
they were sure to be the first victims . 
These considerations , and perhaps others of a more private nature , were debated in a previous conference of the consuls and the magistrates . 
See Temple Of Castor and Pollux Quod . 
tamen patres dum periculosum existimant inermes armato esistere approbaverunt . 
Even the servants of the house , the scribes , c . 
, were excluded , and their office was filled by the senators themselves . 
We are obliged to the Augustan History . 
, for preserving this curious example of the old discipline of the commonwealth . 
This spirited speech , translated from the Augustan historian , p . 
The praefect Vitalianus had signalized his fidelity to Maximin , by the alacrity with which he had obeyed , and even prevented the cruel mandates of the tyrant . 
His death alone could rescue the authority of the senate , and the lives of the senators from a state of danger and suspense . 
Before their resolves had transpired , a quaestor and some tribunes were commissioned to take his devoted life . 
A new spirit had arisen in that assembly , whose long patience had been insulted by wanton despotism and military license . 
The senate assumed the reins of government , and , with a calm intrepidity , prepared to vindicate by arms the cause of freedom . 
To these was the defence of Italy intrusted . 
Each was appointed to act in his respective department , authorized to enroll and discipline the Italian youth and instructed to fortify the ports and highways , against the impending invasion of Maximin . 
For while the cause of the Gordians was embraced with such diffusive ardor , the Gordians themselves were no more . 
The younger Gordian sallied out to meet the enemy at the head of a few guards , and a numerous undisciplined multitude , educated in the peaceful luxury of Carthage . 
His useless valor served only to procure him an honorable death on the field of battle . 
His aged father , whose reign had not exceeded thirty six days , put an end to his life on the first news of the defeat . 
, that the two Gordians perished by a tempest in the midst of their navigation . 
A strange ignorance of history , or a strange abuse of metaphors ! The fate of the Gordians filled Rome with just but unexpected terror . 
A silent consternation prevailed in the assembly , till a senator , of the name and family of Trajan , awakened his brethren from their fatal lethargy . 
We have lost , continued he , two excellent princes but unless we desert ourselves , the hopes of the republic have not perished with the Gordians . 
Many are the senators whose virtues have deserved , and whose abilities would sustain , the Imperial dignity . 
Let us elect two emperors , one of whom may conduct the war against the public enemy , whilst his colleague remains at Rome to direct the civil administration . 
I cheerfully expose myself to the danger and envy of the nomination , and give my vote in favor of Maximus and Balbinus . 
Ratify my choice , conscript fathers , or appoint in their place , others more worthy of the empire . 
You are happy in the judgment of the senate may the republic be happy under your administration ! See the Augustan History , p . 
, from the registers of the senate the date is confessedly faulty but the coincidence of the Apollinatian games enables us to correct it . 
Chapter VII Tyranny Of Maximin , Rebellion , Civil Wars , Death Of Maximin . 
The virtues and the reputation of the new emperors justified the most sanguine hopes of the Romans . 
The various nature of their talents seemed to appropriate to each his peculiar department of peace and war , without leaving room for jealous emulation . 
His birth was noble , his fortune affluent , his manners liberal and affable . 
In him the love of pleasure was corrected by a sense of dignity , nor had the habits of ease deprived him of a capacity for business . 
The mind of Maximus was formed in a rougher mould . 
By his valor and abilities he had raised himself from the meanest origin to the first employments of the state and army . 
He was descended from Cornelius Balbus , a noble Spaniard , and the adopted son of Theophanes , the Greek historian . 
Balbus obtained the freedom of Rome by the favor of Pompey , and preserved it by the eloquence of Cicero . 
raised him to the consulship and the pontificate , honors never yet possessed by a stranger . 
The nephew of this Balbus triumphed over the Garamantes . 
The solemn rites of sacrifice were disturbed by a sedition of the people . 
The licentious multitude neither loved the rigid Maximus , nor did they sufficiently fear the mild and humane Balbinus . 
At the head of the city guards , and the youth of the equestrian order , Maximus and Balbinus attempted to cut their way through the seditious multitude . 
The multitude , armed with sticks and stones , drove them back into the Capitol . 
It is prudent to yield when the contest , whatever may be the issue of it , must be fatal to both parties . 
The tumult was appeased by this easy condescension and the two emperors , as soon as they had been peaceably acknowledged in Rome , prepared to defend Italy against the common enemy . 
, supposes that the senate was at first convoked in the Capitol , and is very eloquent on the occasion . 
, seems much more authentic . 
According to some , the son . 
G. Whilst in Rome and Africa , revolutions succeeded each other with such amazing rapidity , that the mind of Maximin was agitated by the most furious passions . 
Revenge was the only consolation left to Maximin , and revenge could only be obtained by arms . 
The strength of the legions had been assembled by Alexander from all parts of the empire . 
The life of Maximin had been spent in war , and the candid severity of history cannot refuse him the valor of a soldier , or even the abilities of an experienced general . 
Yet as far as we can trust to the obscure chronology of that period , it appears that the operations of some foreign war deferred the Italian expedition till the ensuing spring . 
Histoire des Empereurs , tom . 
The carelessness of the writers of that age , leaves us in a singular perplexity . 
We know that Maximus and Balbinus were killed during the Capitoline games . 
enables us to fix those games with certainty to the year , but leaves us in ignorance of the month or day . 
Tillemont and Muratori , who maintain the two opposite opinions , bring into the field a desultory troop of authorities , conjectures and probabilities . 
The one seems to draw out , the other to contract the series of events between those periods , more than can be well reconciled to reason and history . 
Yet it is necessary to choose between them . 
Note Eckhel has more recently treated these chronological questions with a perspicuity which gives great probability to his conclusions . 
In the year , in the cal ends of January , commences his fourth tribunate . 
The Gordians are chosen emperors in Africa , probably at the beginning of the month of March . 
The senate confirms this election with joy , and declares Maximin the enemy of Rome . 
Five days after he had heard of this revolt , Maximin sets out from Sirmium on his march to Italy . 
These events took place about the beginning of April a little after , the Gordians are slain in Africa by Capellianus , procurator of Mauritania . 
The senate , in its alarm , names as emperors Balbus and Maximus Pupianus , and intrusts the latter with the war against Maximin . 
Maximin is stopped on his road near Aquileia , by the want of provisions , and by the melting of the snows he begins the siege of Aquileia at the end of April . 
Pupianus assembles his army at Ravenna . 
Maximin and his son are assassinated by the soldiers enraged at the resistance of Aquileia and this was probably in the middle of May . 
Pupianus returns to Rome , and assumes the government with Balbinus they are assassinated towards the end of July Gordian the younger ascends the throne . 
G. Velleius Paterculus , l . 
expresses the sentiments of the dictator in a spirited , and even a sublime manner . 
Aquileia received and withstood the first shock of the invasion . 
The streams that issue from the head of the Hadriatic Gulf , swelled by the melting of the winter snows , opposed an unexpected obstacle to the arms of Maximin . 
thinks the melting of the snows suits better with the months of June or July , than with those of February . 
The opinion of a man who passed his life between the Alps and the Apennines , is undoubtedly of great weight yet I observe , . 
That the long winter , of which Muratori takes advantage , is to be found only in the Latin version , and not in the Greek text of Herodian . 
denote the spring rather than the summer . 
They are about twelve miles to the east of Aquileia . 
The Celtic deity was supposed to be Apollo , and received under that name the thanks of the senate . 
A temple was likewise built to Venus the Bald , in honor of the women of Aquileia , who had given up their hair to make ropes for the military engines . 
The soldiers of Maximin were , on the contrary , exposed to the inclemency of the season , the contagion of disease , and the horrors of famine . 
The open country was ruined , the rivers filled with the slain , and polluted with blood . 
A party of Praetorian guards , who trembled for their wives and children in the camp of Alba , near Rome , executed the sentence of the senate . 
Anulinus the praefect , and the principal ministers of his tyranny . 
Such was the deserved fate of a brutal savage , destitute , as he has generally been represented , of every sentiment that distinguishes a civilized , or even a human being . 
The body was suited to the soul . 
The stature of Maximin exceeded the measure of eight feet , and circumstances almost incredible are related of his matchless strength and appetite . 
we may depend on the integrity of the text , as the Latin original is checked by the Greek version of Paeanius . 
Eight Roman feet and one third , which are equal to above eight English feet , as the two measures are to each other in the proportion of to . 
See Graves's discourse on the Roman foot . 
of wine , and eat thirty or forty pounds of meat . 
He could move a loaded wagon , break a horse's leg with his fist , crumble stones in his hand , and tear up small trees by the roots . 
See his life in the Augustan History . 
The conduct of the two emperors corresponded with these expectations . 
They administered justice in person and the rigor of the one was tempered by the other's clemency . 
The oppressive taxes with which Maximin had loaded the rights of inheritance and succession , were repealed , or at least moderated . 
What reward may we expect for delivering Rome from a monster ? was the question asked by Maximus , in a moment of freedom and confidence . 
Balbinus answered it without hesitation The love of the senate , of the people , and of all mankind . 
Alas ! replied his more penetrating colleague alas ! I dread the hatred of the soldiers , and the fatal effects of their resentment . 
His apprehensions were but too well justified by the event . 
See the congratulatory letter of Claudius Julianus , the consul to the two emperors , in the Augustan History . 
Whilst Maximus was preparing to defend Italy against the common foe , Balbinus , who remained at Rome , had been engaged in scenes of blood and intestine discord . 
Distrust and jealousy reigned in the senate and even in the temples where they assembled , every senator carried either open or concealed arms . 
The civil war lasted many days , with infinite loss and confusion on both sides . 
The emperor Balbinus attempted , by ineffectual edicts and precarious truces , to reconcile the factions at Rome . 
But their animosity , though smothered for a while , burnt with redoubled violence . 
The soldiers , detesting the senate and the people , despised the weakness of a prince , who wanted either the spirit or the power to command the obedience of his subjects . 
After the tyrant's death , his formidable army had acknowledged , from necessity rather than from choice , the authority of Maximus , who transported himself without delay to the camp before Aquileia . 
But nothing could reconcile the haughty spirit of the Praetorians . 
The emperors chosen by the army had perished with ignominy those elected by the senate were seated on the throne . 
The long discord between the civil and military powers was decided by a war , in which the former had obtained a complete victory . 
The observation had been made imprudently enough in the acclamations of the senate , and with regard to the soldiers it carried the appearance of a wanton insult . 
Their policy was effectual , but it proved fatal both to their emperors and to themselves . 
The jealousy of power was soon exasperated by the difference of character . 
Maximus despised Balbinus as a luxurious noble , and was in his turn disdained by his colleague as an obscure soldier . 
Their silent discord was understood rather than seen but the mutual consciousness prevented them from uniting in any vigorous measures of defence against their common enemies of the Praetorian camp . 
The whole city was employed in the Capitoline games , and the emperors were left almost alone in the palace . 
On a sudden , they were alarmed by the approach of a troop of desperate assassins . 
afraid to give or to receive assistance , they wasted the important moments in idle debates and fruitless recriminations . 
The arrival of the guards put an end to the vain strife . 
Discordiae tacitae , et quae intelligerentur potius quam viderentur . 
This well chosen expression is probably stolen from some better writer . 
In the space of a few months , six princes had been cut off by the sword . 
Gordian , who had already received the title of Caesar , was the only person that occurred to the soldiers as proper to fill the vacant throne . 
They carried him to the camp , and unanimously saluted him Augustus and Emperor . 
Quia non alius erat in praesenti , is the expression of the Augustan History . 
In that case , it may serve to decide the age of Quintus Curtius . 
Those who place him under the first Caesars , argue from the purity of his style but are embarrassed by the silence of Quintilian , in his accurate list of Roman historians . 
Note This conjecture of Gibbon is without foundation . 
Many passages in the work of Quintus Curtius clearly place him at an earlier period . 
Thus , in speaking of the Parthians , he says , Hinc in Parthicum perventum est , tunc ignobilem gentem nunc caput omnium qui post Euphratem et Tigrim amnes siti Rubro mari terminantur . 
The Parthian empire had this extent only in the first age of the vulgar aera to that age , therefore , must be assigned the date of Quintus Curtius . 
have multiplied conjectures on this subject , most of them have ended by adopting the opinion which places Quintus Curtius under the reign of Claudius . 
Du Bos Reflections sur la Poesie , d Partie . 
Tiraboschi Storia della , Lett . 
des Historiens d'Alexandre , d ed . 
G. This interminable question seems as much perplexed as ever . 
The first argument of M. Guizot is a strong one , except that Parthian is often used by later writers for Persian . 
maintains the opinion of Bagnolo , which assigns Q. Curtius to the time of Constantine the Great . 
Schmieder , in his edit . 
, sums up in this sentence , aetatem Curtii ignorari pala mest . 
It should seem that love and learning introduced Misitheus to the favor of Gordian . 
The young prince married the daughter of his master of rhetoric , and promoted his father in law to the first offices of the empire . 
Two admirable letters that passed between them are still extant . 
The minister , with the conscious dignity of virtue , congratulates Gordian that he is delivered from the tyranny of the eunuchs , and still more that he is sensible of his deliverance . 
Duxit uxorem filiam Misithei , quem causa eloquentiae dignum parentela sua putavit et praefectum statim fecit post quod , non puerile jam et contemptibile videbatur imperium . 
The Persians had invaded Mesopotamia , and threatened Antioch . 
On his approach , with a great army , the Persians withdrew their garrisons from the cities which they had already taken , and retired from the Euphrates to the Tigris . 
But the prosperity of Gordian expired with Misitheus , who died of a flux , not with out very strong suspicions of poison . 
Philip , his successor in the praefecture , was an Arab by birth , and consequently , in the earlier part of his life , a robber by profession . 
His rise from so obscure a station to the first dignities of the empire , seems to prove that he was a bold and able leader . 
But his boldness prompted him to aspire to the throne , and his abilities were employed to supplant , not to serve , his indulgent master . 
It is not in our power to trace the successive steps of the secret conspiracy and open sedition , which were at length fatal to Gordian . 
A sepulchral monument was erected to his memory on the spot where he was killed , near the conflux of the Euphrates with the little river Aboras . 
The fortunate Philip , raised to the empire by the votes of the soldiers , found a ready obedience from the senate and the provinces . 
The philosopher Plotinus accompanied the army , prompted by the love of knowledge , and by the hope of penetrating as far as India . 
About twenty miles from the little town of Circesium , on the frontier of the two empires . 
Note Now Kerkesia placed in the angle formed by the juncture of the Chaboras , or al Khabour , with the Euphrates . 
This situation appeared advantageous to Diocletian , that he raised fortifications to make it the but wark of the empire on the side of Mesopotamia . 
G. It is the Carchemish of the Old Testament , Chron . 
but the tumulus , or mound of earth which formed the sepulchre , still subsisted in the time of Julian . 
Philip , who was a native of Bostra , was about forty years of age . 
Philip was a native of Tracbonitis another province of Arabia . 
G. We cannot forbear transcribing the ingenious , though somewhat fanciful description , which a celebrated writer of our own times has traced of the military government of the Roman empire . 
Perhaps , indeed , it may be laid down as a general rule , that a military government is , in some respects , more republican than monarchical . 
Nor can it be said that the soldiers only partook of the government by their disobedience and rebellions . 
a juster and more noble parallel . 
When the army had elected Philip , who was Praetorian praefect to the third Gordian , the latter demanded that he might remain sole emperor he was unable to obtain it . 
He requested that the power might be equally divided between them the army would not listen to his speech . 
He consented to be degraded to the rank of Caesar the favor was refused him . 
He desired , at least , he might be appointed Praetorian praefect his prayer was rejected . 
Finally , he pleaded for his life . 
The army , in these several judgments , exercised the supreme magistracy . 
After a moment's pause , the inhuman sentence was executed . 
cannot , in this instance , be reconciled with itself or with probability . 
Some chronological difficulties have likewise been discovered by the nice eyes of Tillemont and Muratori , in this supposed association of Philip to the empire . 
Note Wenck endeavors to reconcile these discrepancies . 
He supposes that Gordian was led away , and died a natural death in prison . 
This is directly contrary to the statement of Capitolinus and of Zosimus , whom he adduces in support of his theory . 
He is more successful in his precedents of usurpers deifying the victims of their ambition . 
Sit divus , dummodo non sit vivus . 
M. Chapter VII Tyranny Of Maximin , Rebellion , Civil Wars , Death Of Maximin . 
Every circumstance of the secular games was skillfully adapted to inspire the superstitious mind with deep and solemn reverence . 
Slaves and strangers were excluded from any participation in these national ceremonies . 
The magnificence of Philip's shows and entertainments dazzled the eyes of the multitude . 
The devout were employed in the rites of superstition , whilst the reflecting few revolved in their anxious minds the past history and the future fate of the empire . 
The account of the last supposed celebration , though in an enlightened period of history , was so very doubtful and obscure , that the alternative seems not doubtful . 
When the popish jubilees , the copy of the secular games , were invented by Boniface VII . 
, the crafty pope pretended that he only revived an ancient institution . 
See M. le Chais , Lettres sur les Jubiles . 
Either of a hundred or a hundred and ten years . 
The emperors Claudius and Philip , however , did not treat the oracle with implicit respect . 
The idea of the secular games is best understood from the poem of Horace , and the description of Zosimus , . 
Since Romulus , with a small band of shepherds and outlaws , fortified himself on the hills near the Tyber , ten centuries had already elapsed . 
The last three hundred years had been consumed in apparent prosperity and internal decline . 
A mercenary army , levied among the subjects and barbarians of the frontier , was the only order of men who preserved and abused their independence . 
The received calculation of Varro assigns to the foundation of Rome an aera that corresponds with the th year before Christ . 
The limits of the Roman empire still extended from the Western Ocean to the Tigris , and from Mount Atlas to the Rhine and the Danube . 
To the undiscerning eye of the vulgar , Philip appeared a monarch no less powerful than Hadrian or Augustus had formerly been . 
The form was still the same , but the animating health and vigor were fled . 
The industry of the people was discouraged and exhausted by a long series of oppression . 
Chapter VIII State Of Persion And Restoration Of The Monarchy . 
Part I. Of The State Of Persia After The Restoration Of The Monarchy By Artaxerxes . 
The Assyrians reigned over the East , till the sceptre of Ninus and Semiramis dropped from the hands of their enervated successors . 
The Medes and the Babylonians divided their power , and were themselves swallowed up in the monarchy of the Persians , whose arms could not be confined within the narrow limits of Asia . 
Followed , as it is said , by two millions of men , Xerxes , the descendant of Cyrus , invaded Greece . 
Thirty thousand soldiers , under the command of Alexander , the son of Philip , who was intrusted by the Greeks with their glory and revenge , were sufficient to subdue Persia . 
The princes of the house of Seleucus usurped and lost the Macedonian command over the East . 
This great revolution , whose fatal influence was soon experienced by the Romans , happened in the fourth year of Alexander Severus , two hundred and twenty six years after the Christian era . 
As the latter of these great events happened years before Christ , the former may be placed years before the same aera . 
The Astronomical Observations , found at Babylon , by Alexander , went fifty years higher . 
calls the Parthians Carduchi , i . 
, the inhabitants of Curdistan . 
M. In the five hundred and thirty eighth year of the aera of Seleucus . 
is placed by Eutychius as high as the tenth year of Commodus , and by Moses of Chorene as low as the reign of Philip . 
his ancient materials , which are indeed very good , that he describes the family of the Arsacides as still seated on the Persian throne in the middle of the fourth century . 
The Shah Nameh was composed with the view of perpetuating the remains of the original Persian records or traditions which had survived the Saracenic invasion . 
The task was undertaken by the poet Dukiki , and afterwards , under the patronage of Mahmood of Ghazni , completed by Ferdusi . 
See , on the Shah Nameh , Translation by Goerres , with Von Hammer's Review , Vienna Jahrbuch von Lit . 
Macan's Preface to his Critical Edition of the Shah Nameh . 
On the early Persian History , a very sensible abstract of various opinions in Malcolm's Hist . 
His birth was obscure , and the obscurity equally gave room to the aspersions of his enemies , and the flattery of his adherents . 
If we credit the scandal of the former , Artaxerxes sprang from the illegitimate commerce of a tanner's wife with a common soldier . 
The latter represent him as descended from a branch of the ancient kings of Persian , though time and misfortune had gradually reduced his ancestors to the humble station of private citizens . 
The Parthians were defeated in three great battles . 
In the last of these their king Artaban was slain , and the spirit of the nation was forever broken . 
The authority of Artaxerxes was solemnly acknowledged in a great assembly held at Balch in Khorasan . 
! Two younger branches of the royal house of Arsaces were confounded among the prostrate satraps . 
The tanner's name was Babec the soldier's , Sassan from the former Artaxerxes obtained the surname of Babegan , from the latter all his descendants have been styled Sassanides . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , Ardshir . 
M. Dion Cassius , l . 
! See the Persian account of the rise of Ardeschir Babegan in Malcolm l . 
M. See Moses Chorenensis , l . 
I. During the long servitude of Persia under the Macedonian and the Parthian yoke , the nations of Europe and Asia had mutually adopted and corrupted each other's superstitions . 
The Arsacides , indeed , practised the worship of the Magi but they disgraced and polluted it with a various mixture of foreign idolatry . 
These priests , who had so long sighed in contempt and obscurity obeyed the welcome summons and , on the appointed day , appeared , to the number of about eighty thousand . 
One of these , Erdaviraph , a young but holy prelate , received from the hands of his brethren three cups of soporiferous wine . 
He drank them off , and instantly fell into a long and profound sleep . 
As soon as he waked , he related to the king and to the believing multitude , his journey to heaven , and his intimate conferences with the Deity . 
Every doubt was silenced by this supernatural evidence and the articles of the faith of Zoroaster were fixed with equal authority and precision . 
had proved the neglect of the Zoroastrian religion under the Parthian kings . 
M. Hyde and Prideaux , working up the Persian legends and their own conjectures into a very agreeable story , represent Zoroaster as a contemporary of Darius Hystaspes . 
The judicious criticisms of Mr. Moyle perceived , and maintained against his uncle , Dr . 
Prideaux , the antiquity of the Persian prophet . 
See his work , vol . 
Note There are three leading theories concerning the age of Zoroaster . 
That which assigns him to an age of great and almost indefinite antiquity it is that of Moyle , adopted by Gibbon , Volney , Recherches sur l'Histoire , ii . 
in a very ingenious and ably developed theory , throws the Bactrian prophet far back into antiquity . 
and recently Holty , identify the Gushtasp of the Persian mythological history with Cyaxares the First , the king of the Medes , and consider the religion to be Median in its origin . 
M. Guizot considers this opinion most probable , note in loc . 
make Gushtasp Darius Hystaspes , and Zoroaster his contemporary . 
The silence of Herodotus appears the great objection to this theory . 
make more than one Zoroaster , and so attempt to reconcile the conflicting theories . 
M. That ancient idiom was called the Zend . 
The language of the commentary , the Pehlvi , though much more modern , has ceased many ages ago to be a living tongue . 
sufficiently warrants the antiquity of those writings which M d'Anquetil has brought into Europe , and translated into French . 
Note Zend signifies life , living . 
The word means , either the collection of the canonical books of the followers of Zoroaster , or the language itself in which they are written . 
They are the books that contain the word of life whether the language was originally called Zend , or whether it was so called from the contents of the books . 
Avesta means word , oracle , revelation this term is not the title of a particular work , but of the collection of the books of Zoroaster , as the revelation of Ormuzd . 
This collection is sometimes called Zendavesta , sometimes briefly Zend . 
Some critics , among others Richardson and Sir W. Jones , have called in question the antiquity of these books . 
G. Sir W. Jones appears to have abandoned his doubts , on discovering the affinity between the Zend and the Sanskrit . 
Since the time of Kleuker , this question has been investigated by many learned scholars . 
consider it a derivative from the Sanskrit . 
According to Rask , the Zend and Sanskrit are sister dialects the one the parent of the Persian , the other of the Indian family of languages . 
G. and M. But the subject is more satisfactorily illustrated in Bopp's comparative Grammar of the Sanscrit , Zend , Greek , Latin , Lithuanian , Gothic , and German languages . 
According to Bopp , the Zend is , in some respects , of a more remarkable structure than the Sanskrit . 
Parts of the Zendavesta have been published in the original , by M. Bournouf , at Paris , and M. Ol . 
M. The Pehlvi was the language of the countries bordering on Assyria , and probably of Assyria itself . 
Pehlvi signifies valor , heroism the Pehlvi , therefore , was the language of the ancient heroes and kings of Persia , the valiant . 
It contains a number of Aramaic roots . 
Anquetil considered it formed from the Zend . 
Kleuker does not adopt this opinion . 
The Pehlvi , he says , is much more flowing , and less overcharged with vowels , than the Zend . 
The books of Zoroaster , first written in Zend , were afterwards translated into Pehlvi and Parsi . 
The Pehlvi had fallen into disuse under the dynasty of the Sassanides , but the learned still wrote it . 
The Parsi , the dialect of Pars or Farristan , was then prevailing dialect . 
Kleuker , Anhang zum Zend Avesta , , ii . 
considers the existing Zendavesta to have been compiled in the time of Ardeschir Babegan . 
M. Hyde de Religione veterum Pers . 
I have principally drawn this account from the Zendavesta of M. d'Anquetil , and the Sadder , subjoined to Dr . 
Note It is to be regretted that Gibbon followed the post Mahometan Sadder of Hyde . 
The principle of good is eternally aborbed in light the principle of evil eternally buried in darkness . 
The wise benevolence of Ormusd formed man capable of virtue , and abundantly provided his fair habitation with the materials of happiness . 
By his vigilant providence , the motion of the planets , the order of the seasons , and the temperate mixture of the elements , are preserved . 
But the malice of Ahriman has long since pierced Ormusd's egg or , in other words , has violated the harmony of his works . 
At that decisive period , the enlightened wisdom of goodness will render the power of Ormusd superior to the furious malice of his rival . 
Ahriman and his followers , disarmed and subdued , will sink into their native darkness and virtue will maintain the eternal peace and harmony of the universe . 
! ! ! Zeruane Akerene , so translated by Anquetil and Kleuker . 
There is a dissertation of Foucher on this subject , Mem . 
it is the Sanskrit Sarvan Akaranam , the Uncreated Whole or , according to Fred . 
Schlegel , Sarvan Akharyam the Uncreate Indivisible . 
M. This is an error . 
See the Abridgment of the Doctrine of the Ancient Persians , by Anquetil , c . 
exalt Ormusd into the first and omnipotent cause , whilst they degrade Ahriman into an inferior but rebellious spirit . 
Their desire of pleasing the Mahometans may have contributed to refine their theological systems . 
Kleuker , Anhang part iii . 
p , and the Izeschne , one of the books of the Zendavesta . 
G. Chapter VIII State Of Persion And Restoration Of The Monarchy . 
The tops of the highest mountains are the places chosen for sacrifices . 
Hymns and prayers are the principal worship the Supreme God , who fills the wide circle of heaven , is the object to whom they are addressed . 
But the Persians of every age have denied the charge , and explained the equivocal conduct , which might appear to give a color to it . 
Prideaux thinks , with reason , that the use of temples was afterwards permitted in the Magian religion . 
were only to be found in Media or Aderbidjan , provinces into which Herodotus did not penetrate . 
Mithra is the first of the genii , or jzeds , created by Ormuzd it is he who watches over all nature . 
Hence arose the misapprehension of some of the Greeks , who have said that Mithra was the summus deus of the Persians he has a thousand ears and ten thousand eyes . 
The Chaldeans appear to have assigned him a higher rank than the Persians . 
It is he who bestows upon the earth the light of the sun . 
is thus an inferior genius , who , with many other genii , bears a part in the functions of Mithra . 
These assistant genii to another genius are called his kamkars but in the Zendavesta they are never confounded . 
It is probably this which has sometimes caused them to be confounded but Anquetil had himself exposed this error , which Kleuker , and all who have studied the Zendavesta , have noticed . 
Kleuker's Anhang , part iii . 
G. M. Guizot is unquestionably right , according to the pure and original doctrine of the Zend . 
An excellent abstract of the question , with references to the works of the chief modern writers on his curious subject , De Sacy , Kleuker , Von Hammer , c . 
, may be found in De Guigniaut's translation of Kreuzer . 
Notwithstanding all their distinctions and protestations , which seem sincere enough , their tyrants , the Mahometans , have constantly stigmatized them as idolatrous worshippers of the fire . 
The religion of Zoroaster was abundantly provided with the former and possessed a sufficient portion of the latter . 
The moral duties , however , of justice , mercy , liberality , c . 
See the Sadder , the smallest part of which consists of moral precepts . 
The ceremonies enjoined are infinite and trifling . 
Fifteen genuflections , prayers , c . 
, were required whenever the devout Persian cut his nails or made water or as often as he put on the sacred girdle Sadder , Art . 
Note Zoroaster exacted much less ceremonial observance , than at a later period , the priests of his doctrines . 
This is the progress of all religions the worship , simple in its origin , is gradually overloaded with minute superstitions . 
Thus it is not from the Zendavesta that Gibbon derives the proof of his allegation , but from the Sadder , a much later work . 
Fasting and celibacy , the common means of purchasing the divine favor , he condemns with abhorrence , as a criminal rejection of the best gifts of Providence . 
We may quote from the Zendavesta a wise and benevolent maxim , which compensates for many an absurdity . 
He who sows the ground with care and diligence acquires a greater stock of religious merit than he could gain by the repetition of ten thousand prayers . 
In the spring of every year a festival was celebrated , destined to represent the primitive equality , and the present connection , of mankind . 
The stately kings of Persia , exchanging their vain pomp for more genuine greatness , freely mingled with the humblest but most useful of their subjects . 
On that day the husbandmen were admitted , without distinction , to the table of the king and his satraps . 
The monarch accepted their petitions , inquired into their grievances , and conversed with them on the most equal terms . 
See , on Zoroaster's encouragement of agriculture , the ingenious remarks of Heeren , Ideen , vol . 
, and Rhode , Heilige Sage , p . 
, and Precis du Systeme de Zoroastre , tom . 
Hyde de Religione Persarum , c . 
The Magi , or sacerdotal order , were extremely numerous , since , as we have already seen , fourscore thousand of them were convened in a general council . 
Their forces were multiplied by discipline . 
The property of the Magi was very considerable . 
Besides the less invidious possession of a large tract of the most fertile lands of Media , they levied a general tax on the fortunes and the industry of the Persians . 
To obtain the acceptation of this guide to salvation , you must faithfully pay him tithes of all you possess , of your goods , of your lands , and of your money . 
If the destour be satisfied , your soul will escape hell tortures you will secure praise in this world and happiness in the next . 
For the destours are the teachers of religion they know all things , and they deliver all men . 
Hyde de Religione Persarum , c . 
Both Hyde and Prideaux affect to apply to the Magian the terms consecrated to the Christian hierarchy . 
That the Magi derived some of their most secret doctrines from the Indian Brachmans and . 
That they were a tribe , or family , as well as order . 
The divine institution of tithes exhibits a singular instance of conformity between the law of Zoroaster and that of Moses . 
Those who cannot otherwise account for it , may suppose , if they please that the Magi of the latter times inserted so useful an interpolation into the writings of their prophet . 
and written by a Magus for popular use what it contains , therefore , cannot be attributed to Zoroaster . 
Whatever may be the case as to the latter assertion , for which there appears little foundation , it is unquestionable that the Sadder is of much later date . 
The Abbe Foucher does not even believe it to be an extract from the works of Zoroaster . 
G. Perhaps it is rash to speak of any part of the Zendavesta as the writing of Zoroaster , though it may be a genuine representation of his . 
considered it not above years old . 
It is manifestly post Mahometan . 
observes , that magic held mankind by the triple chain of religion , of physic , and of astronomy . 
By an edict of Artaxerxes , the exercise of every worship , except that of Zoroaster , was severely prohibited . 
The temples of the Parthians , and the statues of their deified monarchs , were thrown down with ignominy . 
was easily broken the flames of persecution soon reached the more stubborn Jews and Christians nor did they spare the heretics of their own nation and religion . 
! Mr. Hume , in the Natural History of Religion , sagaciously remarks , that the most refined and philosophic sects are constantly the most intolerant . 
Note Hume's comparison is rather between theism and polytheism . 
In India , in Greece , and in modern Europe , philosophic religion has looked down with contemptuous toleration on the superstitions of the vulgar . 
M. Cicero de Legibus , ii . 
Xerxes , by the advice of the Magi , destroyed the temples of Greece . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , Zurdusht . 
Life of Zoroaster in tom . 
Compare Moses of Chorene , l . 
Hereafter I shall make use of these passages . 
Rabbi Abraham , in the Tarikh Schickard , p . 
Basnage , Histoire des Juifs , l . 
Manes , who suffered an ignominious death , may be deemed a Magian as well as a Christian heretic . 
It is incorrect to attribute these persecutions to Artaxerxes . 
The Jews were held in honor by him , and their schools flourished during his reign . 
Compare Jost , Geschichte der Israeliter , b . 
Sapor was forced by the people to temporary severities but their real persecution did not begin till the reigns of Yezdigerd and Kobad . 
According to Sozomen , i . 
, Sapor first persecuted the Christians . 
Manes was put to death by Varanes the First , A. D. . 
Consider the altar and the throne as inseparable they must always sustain each other . 
Artaxerxes , by his valor and conduct , had wrested the sceptre of the East from the ancient royal family of Parthia . 
There still remained the more difficult task of establishing , throughout the vast extent of Persia , a uniform and vigorous administration . 
The weak indulgence of the Arsacides had resigned to their sons and brothers the principal provinces , and the greatest offices of the kingdom in the nature of hereditary possessions . 
Even tribes of barbarians in their mountains , and the Greek cities of Upper Asia , within their walls , scarcely acknowledged , or seldom obeyed . 
any superior and the Parthian empire exhibited , under other names , a lively image of the feudal system which has since prevailed in Europe . 
But the active victor , at the head of a numerous and disciplined army , visited in person every province of Persia . 
The defeat of the boldest rebels , and the reduction of the strongest fortifications , diffused the terror of his arms , and prepared the way for the peaceful reception of his authority . 
An obstinate resistance was fatal to the chiefs but their followers were treated with lenity . 
That country was computed to contain , in the last century , five hundred and fifty four cities , sixty thousand villages , and about forty millions of souls . 
These colonies were extremely numerous . 
appears as late as the year , of Christ , on the medals of the Greek cities within the Parthian empire . 
See Moyle's works , vol . 
, and M. Freret , Mem . 
The modern Persians distinguish that period as the dynasty of the kings of the nations . 
relates the siege of the island of Mesene in the Tigris , with some circumstances not unlike the story of Nysus and Scylla . 
The princes of Segestan de fended their independence during many years . 
was peopled and enriched by the resort of the Arabian merchants . 
In the last age , the whole country was divided between three princes , one Mahometan and two Idolaters , who maintained their independence against the successors of Shah Abbas . 
attempted to vindicate the Romans by alleging that the citizens of Seleucia had first violated their faith . 
The reduction of the kingdom of Osrhoene was an acquisition of less splendor indeed , but of a far more solid advantage . 
That little state occupied the northern and most fertile part of Mesopotamia , between the Euphrates and the Tigris . 
After the conclusion of the Parthian war under Marcus , it was judged prudent to secure some substantia , pledges of their doubtful fidelity . 
Forts were constructed in several parts of the country , and a Roman garrison was fixed in the strong town of Nisibis . 
The polished citizens of Antioch called those of Edessa mixed barbarians . 
It was , however , some praise , that of the three dialects of the Syriac , the purest and most elegant was spoken at Edessa . 
has borrowed from George of Malatia , a Syrian writer . 
M. Bayer has neglected to use this most important passage . 
This kingdom , from Osrhoes , who gave a new name to the country , to the last Abgarus , had lasted years . 
See the learned work of M. Bayer , Historia Osrhoena et Edessena . 
Prudence as well as glory might have justified a war on the side of Artaxerxes , had his views been confined to the defence or acquisition of a useful frontier . 
Such an embassy was much less an offer of negotiation than a declaration of war . 
Both Alexander Severus and Artaxerxes , collecting the military force of the Roman and Persian monarchies , resolved in this important contest to lead their armies in person . 
Xenophon , in the preface to the Cyropaedia , gives a clear and magnificent idea of the extent of the empire of Cyrus . 
enters into a curious and particular description of the twenty great Satrapies into which the Persian empire was divided by Darius Hystaspes . 
The Great King fled before his valor an immense booty , and the conquest of Mesopotamia , were the immediate fruits of this signal victory . 
There were two hundred scythed chariots at the battle of Arbela , in the host of Darius . 
In the vast army of Tigranes , which was vanquished by Lucullus , seventeen thousand horse only were completely armed . 
discovered , by a more accurate inquiry , that he had only five hundred for his baggage , and eighty or ninety for the service of war . 
in this instance judicious and moderate , is contented with eighty five elephants , distinguished by their size and strength . 
The whole number , of one hundred and sixty two elephants of war , may sometimes be doubled . 
Note Compare Gibbon's note to ch . 
Note See M. Guizot's note , p . 
According to the Persian authorities Ardeschir extended his conquests to the Euphrates . 
M. Our suspicious are confirmed by the authority of a contemporary historian , who mentions the virtues of Alexander with respect , and his faults with candor . 
He describes the judicious plan which had been formed for the conduct of the war . 
Three Roman armies were destined to invade Persia at the same time , and by different roads . 
But the operations of the campaign , though wisely concerted , were not executed either with ability or success . 
These brave troops laid waste the adjacent provinces , and by several successful actions against Artaxerxes , gave a faint color to the emperor's vanity . 
But the retreat of this victorious army was imprudent , or at least unfortunate . 
In repassing the mountains , great numbers of soldiers perished by the badness of the roads , and the severity of the winter season . 
The behavior of Artaxerxes had been very different . 
But in several obstinate engagements against the veteran legions of Rome , the Persian monarch had lost the flower of his troops . 
Even his victories had weakened his power . 
The favorable opportunities of the absence of Alexander , and of the confusions that followed that emperor's death , presented themselves in vain to his ambition . 
Instead of expelling the Romans , as he pretended , from the continent of Asia , he found himself unable to wrest from their hands the little province of Mesopotamia . 
M. de Tillemont has already observed , that Herodian's geography is somewhat confused . 
illustrates this invasion of Media , by asserting that Chosroes , king of Armenia , defeated Artaxerxes , and pursued him to the confines of India . 
The exploits of Chosroes have been magnified and he acted as a dependent ally to the Romans . 
For the account of this war , see Herodian , l . 
The old abbreviators and modern compilers have blindly followed the Augustan History . 
His character seems to have been marked by those bold and commanding features , that generally distinguish the princes who conquer , from those who inherit an empire . 
Till the last period of the Persian monarchy , his code of laws was respected as the groundwork of their civil and religious policy . 
Several of his sayings are preserved . 
One of them in particular discovers a deep insight into the constitution of government . 
The great Chosroes Noushirwan sent the code of Artaxerxes to all his satraps , as the invariable rule of their conduct . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , au mot Ardshir . 
The science of war , that constituted the more rational force of Greece and Rome , as it now does of Europe , never made any considerable progress in the East . 
Those disciplined evolutions which harmonize and animate a confused multitude , were unknown to the Persians . 
They were equally unskilled in the arts of constructing , besieging , or defending regular fortifications . 
They trusted more to their numbers than to their courage more to their courage than to their discipline . 
The infantry was a half armed , spiritless crowd of peasants , levied in haste by the allurements of plunder , and as easily dispersed by a victory as by a defeat . 
The monarch and his nobles transported into the camp the pride and luxury of the seraglio . 
Some differences may be observed between the two historians , the natural effects of the changes produced by a century and a half . 
But the nobles of Persia , in the bosom of luxury and despotism , preserved a strong sense of personal gallantry and national honor . 
In every province , the satrap maintained a like school of military virtue . 
received from the king's bounty lands and houses , on the condition of their service in war . 
The Persians are still the most skilful horsemen , and their horses the finest in the East . 
From Herodotus , Xenophon , Herodian , Ammianus , Chardin , c . 
, I have extracted such probable accounts of the Persian nobility , as seem either common to every age , or particular to that of the Sassanides . 
Chapter IX State Of Germany Until The Barbarians . 
Part I. The State Of Germany Till The Invasion Of The Barbarians In The Time Of The Emperor Decius . 
The government and religion of Persia have deserved some notice , from their connection with the decline and fall of the Roman empire . 
The expressive conciseness of his descriptions has served to exercise the diligence of innumerable antiquarians , and to excite the genius and penetration of the philosophic historians of our own times . 
The Scythians , even according to the ancients , are not Sarmatians . 
It may be doubted whether Gibbon intended to confound them . 
M. The Greeks , after having divided the world into Greeks and barbarians . 
divided the barbarians into four great classes , the Celts , the Scythians , the Indians , and the Ethiopians . 
They called Celts all the inhabitants of Gaul . 
Hi omnes lingua institutis , legibusque inter se differunt . 
It is thus the Turks call all Europeans Franks . 
Schlozer , Allgemeine Nordische Geschichte , p . 
says , Primus eorum , de quibus constat , Ephorus , in quarto historiarum libro , orbem terrarum inter Scythas , Indos , Aethiopas et Celtas divisit . 
Fragmentum ejus loci Cosmas Indicopleustes in topographia Christiana , f . 
Video igitur Ephorum , cum locorum positus per certa capita distribuere et explicare constitueret , insigniorum nomina gentium vastioribus spatiis adhibuisse , nulla mala fraude et successu infelici . 
Nam Ephoro quoquomodo dicta pro exploratis habebant Graeci plerique et Romani ita gliscebat error posteritate . 
Igitur tot tamque diversae stirpis gentes non modo intra communem quandam regionem definitae , unum omnes Scytharum nomen his auctoribus subierunt , sed etiam ab illa regionis adpellatione in eandem nationem sunt conflatae . 
Sic Cimmeriorum res cum Scythicis , Scytharum cum Sarmaticis , Russicis , Hunnicis , Tataricis commiscentur . 
it contains the unfinished and disarranged for a larger work . 
An anonymous writer , supposed by Luden to be M. Becker , conceives that it was intended as an episode in his larger history . 
de la Civilisation Moderne , i . 
M. Ancient Germany , excluding from its independent limits the province westward of the Rhine , which had submitted to the Roman yoke , extended itself over a third part of Europe . 
On the west , ancient Germany was divided by the Rhine from the Gallic , and on the south , by the Danube , from the Illyrian , provinces of the empire . 
A ridge of hills , rising from the Danube , and called the Carpathian Mountains , covered Germany on the side of Dacia or Hungary . 
The eastern frontier was faintly marked by the mutual fears of the Germans and the Sarmatians , and was often confounded by the mixture of warring and confederating tribes of the two nations . 
In the remote darkness of the north , the ancients imperfectly descried a frozen ocean that lay beyond the Baltic Sea , and beyond the Peninsula , or islands of Scandinavia . 
Germany was not of such vast extent . 
that we can know what was the state of ancient Germany before the wars with the Romans had changed the positions of the tribes . 
Germany , as changed by these wars , has been described by Strabo , Pliny , and Tacitus . 
On the south , the Maine and the mountains to the north of Bohemia formed the limits . 
Gatterer , Versuch einer all gemeinen Welt Geschichte , p . 
This vast country was far from being inhabited by a single nation divided into different tribes of the same origin . 
We may reckon three principal races , very distinct in their language , their origin , and their customs . 
To the east , the Slaves or Vandals . 
To the west , the Cimmerians or Cimbri . 
Between the Slaves and Cimbrians , the Germans , properly so called , the Suevi of Tacitus . 
The South was inhabited , before Julius Caesar , by nations of Gaulish origin , afterwards by the Suevi . 
G. On the position of these nations , the German antiquaries differ . 
According to Gatterer , they remained to the east of the Theiss , the Niemen , and the Vistula , till the third century . 
The Slaves , according to Procopius and Jornandes , formed three great divisions . 
from the country between the Memel and the Vistula . 
The Antes , who inhabited between the Dneister and the Dnieper . 
The Sclavonians , properly so called , in the north of Dacia . 
During the great migration , these races advanced into Germany as far as the Saal and the Elbe . 
those of Croatia , Bosnia , and Bulgaria . 
Schlozer , Nordische Geschichte , p . 
Adelung calls by this name all who were not Suevi . 
This race had passed the Rhine , before the time of Caesar , occupied Belgium , and are the Belgae of Caesar and Pliny . 
The Cimbrians also occupied the Isle of Jutland . 
The Cymri of Wales and of Britain are of this race . 
Many tribes on the right bank of the Rhine , the Guthini in Jutland , the Usipeti in Westphalia , the Sigambri in the duchy of Berg , were German Cimbrians . 
The Suevi , known in very early times by the Romans , for they are mentioned by L. Corn . 
This race , the real Germans , extended to the Vistula , and from the Baltic to the Hercynian forest . 
The name of Suevi was sometimes confined to a single tribe , as by Caesar to the Catti . 
The name of the Suevi has been preserved in Suabia . 
These three were the principal races which inhabited Germany they moved from east to west , and are the parent stem of the modern natives . 
which Tacitus derives from that of one of their gods , Tuisco . 
It appears more probable that it means merely men , people . 
Many savage nations have given themselves no other name . 
Thus the Laplanders call themselves Almag , people the Samoiedes Nilletz , Nissetsch , men , c . 
Caesar found it in use in Gaul , and adopted it as a word already known to the Romans . 
have supposed that it was only applied to the Teutons after Caesar's time but Adelung has triumphantly refuted this opinion . 
The name of Germans is found in the Fasti Capitolini . 
, in which the consul Marcellus , in the year of Rome , is said to have defeated the Gauls , the Insubrians , and the Germans , commanded by Virdomar . 
Geschichte der Deutsch , p . 
Twenty centuries ago the flat country of Scandinavia must have been covered by the sea while the high lands rose above the waters , as so many islands of various forms and dimensions . 
Such , indeed , is the notion given us by Mela , Pliny , and Tacitus , of the vast countries round the Baltic . 
See in the Bibliotheque Raisonnee , tom . 
a large abstract of Dalin's History of Sweden , composed in the Swedish language . 
Note Modern geologists have rejected this theory of the depression of the Baltic , as inconsistent with recent observation . 
The considerable changes which have taken place on its shores , Mr. Lyell , from actual observation now decidedly attributes to the regular and uniform elevation of the land . 
M. Some ingenious writers have suspected that Europe was much colder formerly than it is at present and the most ancient descriptions of the climate of Germany tend exceedingly to confirm their theory . 
But I shall select two remarkable circumstances of a less equivocal nature . 
The great rivers which covered the Roman provinces , the Rhine and the Danube , were frequently frozen over , and capable of supporting the most enormous weights . 
Modern ages have not presented an instance of a like phenomenon . 
The modern improvements sufficiently explain the causes of the diminution of the cold . 
These immense woods have been gradually cleared , which intercepted from the earth the rays of the sun . 
The morasses have been drained , and , in proportion as the soil has been cultivated , the air has become more temperate . 
Canada , at this day , is an exact picture of ancient Germany . 
Although situated in the same parallel with the finest provinces of France and England , that country experiences the most rigorous cold . 
The reindeer are very numerous , the ground is covered with deep and lasting snow , and the great river of St . 
Lawrence is regularly frozen , in a season when the waters of the Seine and the Thames are usually free from ice . 
In particular , Mr. Hume , the Abbe du Bos , and M. Pelloutier . 
On the banks of the Danube , the wine , when brought to table , was frequently frozen into great lumps , frusta vini . 
The fact is confirmed by a soldier and a philosopher , who had experienced the intense cold of Thrace . 
See Xenophon , Anabasis , l . 
Note The Danube is constantly frozen over . 
At Pesth the bridge is usually taken up , and the traffic and communication between the two banks carried on over the ice . 
The Rhine is likewise in many parts passable at least two years out of five . 
Winter campaigns are so unusual , in modern warfare , that I recollect but one instance of an army crossing either river on the ice . 
Jan van Werth , an Imperialist partisan , crossed the Rhine from Heidelberg on the ice with men , and surprised Spiers . 
Buffon , Histoire Naturelle , tom . 
The most inquisitive of the Germans were ignorant of its utmost limits , although some of them had travelled in it more than sixty days' journey . 
and insufficient to prove the reindeer to have existed in Germany . 
It is supported however , by a fragment of Sallust . 
Germani intectum rhenonibus corpus tegunt . 
meant the reindeer in the following description . 
his quae nobis nota sunt cornibus . 
At ejus summo , sicut palmae , rami quam late diffunduntur . 
investigates the small and scattered remains of the Hercynian wood . 
Charlevoix , Histoire du Canada . 
It is difficult to ascertain , and easy to exaggerate , the influence of the climate of ancient Germany over the minds and bodies of the natives . 
Olaus Rudbeck asserts that the Swedish women often bear ten or twelve children , and not uncommonly twenty or thirty but the authority of Rudbeck is much to be suspected . 
In hos artus , in haec corpora , quae miramur , excrescunt . 
The Cimbri , by way of amusement , often did down mountains of snow on their broad shields . 
The Romans made war in all climates , and by their excellent discipline were in a great measure preserved in health and vigor . 
It may be remarked , that man is the only animal which can live and multiply in every country from the equator to the poles . 
The hog seems to approach the nearest to our species in that privilege . 
Chapter IX State Of Germany Until The Barbarians . 
And yet , as the most philosophic minds can seldom refrain from investigating the infancy of great nations , our curiosity consumes itself in toilsome and disappointed efforts . 
When Tacitus considered the purity of the German blood , and the forbidding aspect of the country , he was disposed to pronounce those barbarians Indigence , or natives of the soil . 
To assert those savages to have been the spontaneous production of the earth which they inhabited would be a rash inference , condemned by religion , and unwarranted by reason . 
The emigration of the Gauls followed the course of the Danube , and discharged itself on Greece and Asia . 
Tacitus could discover only one inconsiderable tribe that retained any traces of a Gallic origin . 
Note The Gothini , who must not be confounded with the Gothi , a Suevian tribe . 
In the time of Caesar many other tribes of Gaulish origin dwelt along the course of the Danube , who could not long resist the attacks of the Suevi . 
The Helvetians , who dwelt on the borders of the Black Forest , between the Maine and the Danube , had been expelled long before the time of Caesar . 
He mentions also the Volci Tectosagi , who came from Languedoc and settled round the Black Forest . 
The Boii , who had penetrated into that forest , and also have left traces of their name in Bohemia , were subdued in the first century by the Marcomanni . 
or Boiovarii var , in some German dialects , appearing to mean remains , descendants . 
Compare Malte B m , Geography , vol . 
, edit M. Such rational doubt is but ill suited with the genius of popular vanity . 
Of these judicious critics , one of the most entertaining was Oaus Rudbeck , professor in the university of Upsal . 
Whatever is celebrated either in history or fable , this zealous patriot ascribes to his country . 
the Greeks themselves derived their alphabetical characters , their astronomy , and their religion . 
A clime so profusely favored by Nature could not long remain desert after the flood . 
The learned Rudbeck allows the family of Noah a few years to multiply from eight to about twenty thousand persons . 
He then disperses them into small colonies to replenish the earth , and to propagate the human species . 
distinguished itself by a more than common diligence in the prosecution of this great work . 
the blood circulated from the extremities to the heart . 
This , as the learned historian very properly observes , was the first instance of female falsehood and infidelity ever known in Ireland . 
Genealogical History of the Tartars , by Abulghazi Bahadur Khan . 
His work , entitled Atlantica , is uncommonly scarce . 
Bayle has given two most curious extracts from it . 
Republique des Lettres Janvier et Fevrier , . 
Fully to apprehend this important truth , let us attempt , in an improved society , to calculate the immense distance between the man of learning and the illiterate peasant . 
Literarum secreta viri pariter ac foeminae ignorant . 
We may rest contented with this decisive authority , without entering into the obscure disputes concerning the antiquity of the Runic characters . 
See Pelloutier , Histoire des Celtes , l . 
who lived towards the end of the sixth century . 
Barbara fraxineis pingatur Runa tabellis . 
Note The obscure subject of the Runic characters has exercised the industry and ingenuity of the modern scholars of the north . 
who considers their sixteen letters to be a corruption of the Roman alphabet , post Christian in their date , and Schlozer would attribute their introduction into the north to the Alemanni . 
supposes that these characters were left on the coasts of the Mediterranean and Northern Seas by the Phoenicians , preserved by the priestly castes , and employed for purposes of magic . 
Their common origin from the Phoenician would account for heir similarity to the Roman letters . 
See Ueber Deutsche Runen von W. C. Grimm , . 
M. Of these arts , the ancient Germans were wretchedly destitute . 
They passed their lives in a state of ignorance and poverty , which it has pleased some declaimers to dignify with the appellation of virtuous simplicity . 
Modern Germany is said to contain about two thousand three hundred walled towns . 
Neither stone , nor brick , nor tiles , were employed in these slight habitations . 
In the most inclement winter , the hardy German was satisfied with a scanty garment made of the skin of some animal . 
The nations who dwelt towards the North clothed themselves in furs and the women manufactured for their own use a coarse kind of linen . 
The game of various sorts , with which the forests of Germany were plentifully stocked , supplied its inhabitants with food and exercise . 
Their monstrous herds of cattle , less remarkable indeed for their beauty than for their utility , formed the principal object of their wealth . 
has surpassed most writers in his patriotic enthusiasm for the virtues and noble manners of his ancestors . 
Even the cold of the climate , and the want of vines and fruit trees , as well as the barbarism of the inhabitants , are calumnies of the luxurious Italians . 
has drawn a curious parallel between the Germans of Tacitus and the North American Indians . 
M. Recherches Philosophiques sur les Americains , tom . 
The author of that very curious work is , if I am not misinformed , a German by birth . 
The Alexandrian Geographer is often criticized by the accurate Cluverius . 
See Caesar , and the learned Mr. Whitaker in his History of Manchester , vol . 
Postulamus a vobis , muros coloniae , munimenta servitii , detrahatis etiam fera animalia , si clausa teneas , virtutis obliviscuntur . 
The straggling villages of Silesia are several miles in length . 
One hundred and forty years after Tacitus , a few more regular structures were erected near the Rhine and Danube . 
Gold , silver , and iron , were extremely scarce in Germany . 
Its barbarous inhabitants wanted both skill and patience to investigate those rich veins of silver , which have so liberally rewarded the attention of the princes of Brunswick and Saxony . 
To a mind capable of reflection , such leading facts convey more instruction , than a tedious detail of subordinate circumstances . 
It is said that the Mexicans and Peruvians , without the use of either money or iron , had made a very great progress in the arts . 
Those arts , and the monuments they produced , have been strangely magnified . 
See Recherches sur les Americains , tom . 
, c If we contemplate a savage nation in any part of the globe , a supine indolence and a carelessness of futurity will be found to constitute their general character . 
In a civilized state , every faculty of man is expanded and exercised and the great chain of mutual dependence connects and embraces the several members of society . 
The most numerous portion of it is employed in constant and useful labor . 
The Germans were not possessed of these varied resources . 
The care of the house and family , the management of the land and cattle , were delegated to the old and the infirm , to women and slaves . 
The lazy warrior , destitute of every art that might employ his leisure hours , consumed his days and nights in the animal gratifications of sleep and food . 
the same barbarians are by turns the most indolent and the most restless of mankind . 
They delight in sloth , they detest tranquility . 
The languid soul , oppressed with its own weight , anxiously required some new and powerful sensation and war and danger were the only amusements adequate to its fierce temper . 
The sound that summoned the German to arms was grateful to his ear . 
They gloried in passing whole days and nights at table and the blood of friends and relations often stained their numerous and drunken assemblies . 
they discharged with the most romantic fidelity . 
The Germans might borrow the arts of play from the Romans , but the passion is wonderfully inherent in the human species . 
into a certain semblance of wine , was sufficient for the gross purposes of German debauchery . 
But those who had tasted the rich wines of Italy , and afterwards of Gaul , sighed for that more delicious species of intoxication . 
to naturalize the vine on the banks of the Rhine and Danube nor did they endeavor to procure by industry the materials of an advantageous commerce . 
To solicit by labor what might be ravished by arms , was esteemed unworthy of the German spirit . 
The intemperate thirst of strong liquors often urged the barbarians to invade the provinces on which art or nature had bestowed those much envied presents . 
The Tuscan who betrayed his country to the Celtic nations , attracted them into Italy by the prospect of the rich fruits and delicious wines , the productions of a happier climate . 
de la Monarchie Francoise , tom . 
The climate of ancient Germany has been modified , and the soil fertilized , by the labor of ten centuries from the time of Charlemagne . 
The possession and the enjoyment of property are the pledges which bind a civilized people to an improved country . 
A more serious inquiry into the causes of population seems to have convinced modern philosophers of the falsehood , and indeed the impossibility , of the supposition . 
To the names of Mariana and of Machiavel , we can oppose the equal names of Robertson and Hume . 
See an excellent tract of M. Muret , in the Memoires de la Societe de Born . 
Machiavel , Davila , and the rest of Paul's followers , represent these emigrations too much as regular and concerted measures . 
Sir William Temple and Montesquieu have indulged , on this subject , the usual liveliness of their fancy . 
Robertson's Charles V. Hume's Political Essays . 
Note It is a wise observation of Malthus , that these nations were not populous in proportion to the land they occupied , but to the food they produced . 
They were prolific from their pure morals and constitutions , but their institutions were not calculated to produce food for those whom they brought into being . 
A warlike nation like the Germans , without either cities , letters , arts , or money , found some compensation for this savage state in the enjoyment of liberty . 
Their poverty secured their freedom , since our desires and our possessions are the strongest fetters of despotism . 
riches are held in honor . 
The neighbors of the Suiones , the Sitones , are sunk even below servitude they obey a woman . 
In the mention of these exceptions , the great historian sufficiently acknowledges the general theory of government . 
thinks proper to be very angry with the Roman who expressed so very little reverence for Northern queens . 
are said to have reigned in Sweden above a thousand years . 
The temple of Upsal was the ancient seat of religion and empire . 
In the year I find a singular law , prohibiting the use and profession of arms to any except the king's guards . 
Is it not probable that it was colored by the pretence of reviving an old institution ? See Dalin's History of Sweden in the Bibliotheque Raisonneo tom . 
Civil governments , in their first institution , are voluntary associations for mutual defence . 
The German tribes were contented with this rude but liberal outline of political society . 
The assembly of the warriors of the tribe was convened at stated seasons , or on sudden emergencies . 
The trial of public offences , the election of magistrates , and the great business of peace and war , were determined by its independent voice . 
Sometimes indeed , these important questions were previously considered and prepared in a more select council of the principal chieftains . 
The magistrates might deliberate and persuade , the people only could resolve and execute and the resolutions of the Germans were for the most part hasty and violent . 
We may recollect how often the diets of Poland have been polluted with blood , and the more numerous party has been compelled to yield to the more violent and seditious . 
Grotius changes an expression of Tacitus , pertractantur into Proetractantur . 
The correction is equally just and ingenious . 
Even in our ancient parliament , the barons often carried a question , not so much by the number of votes , as by that of their armed followers . 
A general of the tribe was elected on occasions of danger and , if the danger was pressing and extensive , several tribes concurred in the choice of the same general . 
The bravest warrior was named to lead his countrymen into the field , by his example rather than by his commands . 
But this power , however limited , was still invidious . 
It expired with the war , and in time of peace the German tribes acknowledged not any supreme chief . 
Princes were , however , appointed , in the general assembly , to administer justice , or rather to compose differences , in their respective districts . 
In the choice of these magistrates , as much regard was shown to birth as to merit . 
Minuunt controversias , is a very happy expression of Caesar's . 
Reges ex nobilitate , duces ex virtute sumunt . 
The comparative view of the powers of the magistrates , in two remarkable instances , is alone sufficient to represent the whole system of German manners . 
The disposal of the landed property within their district was absolutely vested in their hands , and they distributed it every year according to a new division . 
At the same time they were not authorized to punish with death , to imprison , or even to strike a private citizen . 
Chapter IX State Of Germany Until The Barbarians . 
The Germans respected only those duties which they imposed on themselves . 
The most obscure soldier resisted with disdain the authority of the magistrates . 
The noblest youths blushed not to be numbered among the faithful companions of some renowned chief , to whom they devoted their arms and service . 
A noble emulation prevailed among the companions , to obtain the first place in the esteem of their chief amongst the chiefs , to acquire the greatest number of valiant companions . 
To be ever surrounded by a band of select youths was the pride and strength of the chiefs , their ornament in peace , their defence in war . 
The glory of such distinguished heroes diffused itself beyond the narrow limits of their own tribe . 
Presents and embassies solicited their friendship , and the fame of their arms often insured victory to the party which they espoused . 
In the hour of danger it was shameful for the chief to be surpassed in valor by his companions shameful for the companions not to equal the valor of their chief . 
To survive his fall in battle , was indelible infamy . 
To protect his person , and to adorn his glory with the trophies of their own exploits , were the most sacred of their duties . 
The chiefs combated for victory , the companions for the chief . 
Gifts worthy of soldiers the warlike steed , the bloody and even victorious lance were the rewards which the companions claimed from the liberality of their chief . 
The rude plenty of his hospitable board was the only pay that he could bestow , or they would accept . 
War , rapine , and the free will offerings of his friends , supplied the materials of this munificence . 
These conditions are , however , very repugnant to the maxims of the ancient Germans , who delighted in mutual presents but without either imposing , or accepting , the weight of obligations . 
Esprit des Loix , l . 
The brilliant imagination of Montesquieu is corrected , however , by the dry , cold reason of the Abbe de Mably . 
Observations sur l'Histoire de France , tom . 
Gaudent muneribus , sed nec data imputant , nec acceptis obligautur . 
Polygamy was not in use , except among the princes , and among them only for the sake of multiplying their alliances . 
Divorces were prohibited by manners rather than by laws . 
Adulteries were punished as rare and inexpiable crimes nor was seduction justified by example and fashion . 
The adulteress was whipped through the village . 
Neither wealth nor beauty could inspire compassion , or procure her a second husband . 
The refinements of life corrupt while they polish the intercourse of the sexes . 
The gross appetite of love becomes most dangerous when it is elevated , or rather , indeed , disguised by sentimental passion . 
The elegance of dress , of motion , and of manners , gives a lustre to beauty , and inflames the senses through the imagination . 
Luxurious entertainments , midnight dances , and licentious spectacles , present at once temptation and opportunity to female frailty . 
From such dangers the unpolished wives of the barbarians were secured by poverty , solitude , and the painful cares of a domestic life . 
To this reason another may be added , of a more honorable nature . 
Some of the interpreters of fate , such as Velleda , in the Batavian war , governed , in the name of the deity , the fiercest nations of Germany . 
Fainting armies of Germans have , more than once , been driven back upon the enemy , by the generous despair of the women , who dreaded death much less than servitude . 
If the day was irrecoverably lost , they well knew how to deliver themselves and their children , with their own hands , from an insulting victor . 
Heroines of such a cast may claim our admiration but they were most assuredly neither lovely , nor very susceptible of love . 
Whilst they affected to emulate the stern virtues of man , they must have resigned that attractive softness , in which principally consist the charm and weakness of woman . 
Conscious pride taught the German females to suppress every tender emotion that stood in competition with honor , and the first honor of the sex has ever been that of chastity . 
Ovid employs two hundred lines in the research of places the most favorable to love . 
Above all , he considers the theatre as the best adapted to collect the beauties of Rome , and to melt them into tenderness and sensuality , Tacit . 
The marriage present was a yoke of oxen , horses , and arms . 
Tacitus is somewhat too florid on the subject . 
The change of exigere into exugere is a most excellent correction . 
Before the wives of the Teutones destroyed themselves and their children , they had offered to surrender , on condition that they should be received as the slaves of the vestal virgins . 
was dictated by their wants , their fears , and their ignorance . 
The only temples in Germany were dark and ancient groves , consecrated by the reverence of succeeding generations . 
Tacitus has employed a few lines , and Cluverius one hundred and twenty four pages , on this obscure subject . 
The former discovers in Germany the gods of Greece and Rome . 
The defects of civil policy were sometimes supplied by the interposition of ecclesiastical authority . 
The latter was constantly exerted to maintain silence and decency in the popular assemblies and was sometimes extended to a more enlarged concern for the national welfare . 
A solemn procession was occasionally celebrated in the present countries of Mecklenburgh and Pomerania . 
During her progress the sound of war was hushed , quarrels were suspended , arms laid aside , and the restless Germans had an opportunity of tasting the blessings of peace and harmony . 
The truce of God , so often and so ineffectually proclaimed by the clergy of the eleventh century , was an obvious imitation of this ancient custom . 
Robertson's History of Charles V. vol . 
But the influence of religion was far more powerful to inflame , than to moderate , the fierce passions of the Germans . 
Interest and fanaticism often prompted its ministers to sanctify the most daring and the most unjust enterprises , by the approbation of Heaven , and full assurances of success . 
cowardice is the most unpardonable of sins . 
A brave man was the worthy favorite of their martial deities the wretch who had lost his shield was alike banished from the religious and civil assemblies of his countrymen . 
Some tribes of the north seem to have embraced the doctrine of transmigration , others imagined a gross paradise of immortal drunkenness . 
All agreed , that a life spent in arms , and a glorious death in battle , were the best preparations for a happy futurity , either in this or in another world . 
These standards were only the heads of wild beasts . 
See an instance of this custom , Tacit . 
labors to reduce their expressions to a more orthodox sense . 
Concerning this gross but alluring doctrine of the Edda , see Fable xx . 
in the curious version of that book , published by M. Mallet , in his Introduction to the History of Denmark . 
The immortality so vainly promised by the priests , was , in some degree , conferred by the bards . 
That singular order of men has most deservedly attracted the notice of all who have attempted to investigate the antiquities of the Celts , the Scandinavians , and the Germans . 
Their genius and character , as well as the reverence paid to that important office , have been sufficiently illustrated . 
But we cannot so easily express , or even conceive , the enthusiasm of arms and glory which they kindled in the breast of their audience . 
Among a polished people , a taste for poetry is rather an amusement of the fancy , than a passion of the soul . 
And yet , when in calm retirement we peruse the combats described by Homer or Tasso , we are insensibly seduced by the fiction , and feel a momentary glow of martial ardor . 
The classical reader may remember the rank of Demodocus in the Phaeacian court , and the ardor infused by Tyrtaeus into the fainting Spartans . 
Yet there is little probability that the Greeks and the Germans were the same people . 
Much learned trifling might be spared , if our antiquarians would condescend to reflect , that similar manners will naturally be produced by similar situations . 
and around the bodies of their slain heroes . 
King Theodoric , of the tribe of the Goths , killed in a battle against Attila , was honored by songs while he was borne from the field of battle . 
The same honor was paid to the remains of Attila . 
But this marriage was celebrated according to the Roman rites , of which the nuptial songs formed a part . 
G. Charlemagne is said to have collected the national songs of the ancient Germans . 
M. Such was the situation , and such were the manners of the ancient Germans . 
Their progress was checked by their want of arms and discipline , and their fury was diverted by the intestine divisions of ancient Germany . 
I. It has been observed , with ingenuity , and not without truth , that the command of iron soon gives a nation the command of gold . 
The face of a German army displayed their poverty of iron . 
Swords , and the longer kind of lances , they could seldom use . 
were long spears headed with a sharp but narrow iron point , and which , as occasion required , they either darted from a distance , or pushed in close onset . 
With this spear , and with a shield , their cavalry was contented . 
A multitude of darts , scattered with incredible force , were an additional resource of the infantry . 
Their military dress , when they wore any , was nothing more than a loose mantle . 
A variety of colors was the only ornament of their wooden or osier shields . 
Few of the chiefs were distinguished by cuirasses , scarcely any by helmets . 
But as the barbarians poured forth their whole souls on the first onset , they knew not how to rally or to retire . 
A repulse was a sure defeat and a defeat was most commonly total destruction . 
The contest was too unequal , till the introduction of luxury had enervated the vigor , and a spirit of disobedience and sedition had relaxed the discipline , of the Roman armies . 
The introduction of barbarian auxiliaries into those armies , was a measure attended with very obvious dangers , as it might gradually instruct the Germans in the arts of war and of policy . 
Eight Batavian cohorts renowned in the wars of Britain and Italy , repaired to his standard . 
When at length , after an obstinate struggle , he yielded to the power of the empire , Civilis secured himself and his country by an honorable treaty . 
The Batavians still continued to occupy the islands of the Rhine , the allies , not the servants , of the Roman monarchy . 
Either that historian used a vague expression , or he meant that they were thrown at random . 
It was their principal distinction from the Sarmatians , who generally fought on horseback . 
The relation of this enterprise occupies a great part of the fourth and fifth books of the History of Tacitus , and is more remarkable for its eloquence than perspicuity . 
Sir Henry Saville has observed several inaccuracies . 
Like them he had lost an eye . 
It was contained between the two branches of the old Rhine , as they subsisted before the face of the country was changed by art and nature . 
The strength of ancient Germany appears formidable , when we consider the effects that might have been produced by its united effort . 
The wide extent of country might very possibly contain a million of warriors , as all who were of age to bear arms were of a temper to use them . 
But this fierce multitude , incapable of concerting or executing any plan of national greatness , was agitated by various and often hostile intentions . 
Germany was divided into more than forty independent states and , even in each state , the union of the several tribes was extremely loose and precarious . 
The barbarians were easily provoked they knew not how to forgive an injury , much less an insult their resentments were bloody and implacable . 
To chastise the insolent , or to plunder the defenceless , were alike causes of war . 
The most formidable states of Germany affected to encompass their territories with a wide frontier of solitude and devastation . 
The awful distance preserved by their neighbors attested the terror of their arms , and in some measure defended them from the danger of unexpected incursions . 
were totally exterminated by the neighboring tribes , provoked by their insolence , allured by the hopes of spoil , and perhaps inspired by the tutelar deities of the empire . 
Above sixty thousand barbarians were destroyed not by the Roman arms , but in our sight , and for our entertainment . 
These sentiments , less worthy of the humanity than of the patriotism of Tacitus , express the invariable maxims of the policy of his countrymen . 
They deemed it a much safer expedient to divide than to combat the barbarians , from whose defeat they could derive neither honor nor advantage . 
Chiefs of renown and power were flattered by the most trifling presents , which they received either as marks of distinction , or as the instruments of luxury . 
In civil dissensions the weaker faction endeavored to strengthen its interest by entering into secret connections with the governors of the frontier provinces . 
Every quarrel among the Germans was fomented by the intrigues of Rome and every plan of union and public good was defeated by the stronger bias of private jealousy and interest . 
The Bructeri were a non Suevian tribe , who dwelt below the duchies of Oldenburgh , and Lauenburgh , on the borders of the Lippe , and in the Hartz Mountains . 
It was among them that the priestess Velleda obtained her renown . 
G. They are mentioned , however , in the ivth and vth centuries by Nazarius , Ammianus , Claudian , c . 
, as a tribe of Franks . 
Urgentibus is the common reading but good sense , Lipsius , and some Mss. declare for Vergentibus . 
The pious Abbe de la Bleterie is very angry with Tacitus , talks of the devil , who was a murderer from the beginning , c . 
Many traces of this policy may be discovered in Tacitus and Dion and many more may be inferred from the principles of human nature . 
This dangerous invasion required all the firmness and vigilance of Marcus . 
He fixed generals of ability in the several stations of attack , and assumed in person the conduct of the most important province on the Upper Danube . 
After a long and doubtful conflict , the spirit of the barbarians was subdued . 
The Quadi and the Marcomanni , who had taken the lead in the war , were the most severely punished in its catastrophe . 
On the frequent rebellions of the Quadi and Marcomanni , the irritated emperor resolved to reduce their country into the form of a province . 
His designs were disappointed by death . 
This formidable league , however , the only one that appears in the two first centuries of the Imperial history , was entirely dissipated , without leaving any traces behind in Germany . 
The emperor Marcus was reduced to sell the rich furniture of the palace , and to enlist slaves and robbers . 
The Marcomanni , a colony , who , from the banks of the Rhine occupied Bohemia and Moravia , had once erected a great and formidable monarchy under their king Maroboduus . 
Note The Mark manaen , the March men or borderers . 
There seems little doubt that this was an appellation , rather than a proper name of a part of the great Suevian or Teutonic race . 
increases the prohibition to ten times the distance . 
His reasoning is specious , but not conclusive . 
Five miles were sufficient for a fortified barrier . 
As the ancient , or as new tribes successively present themselves in the series of this history , we shall concisely mention their origin , their situation , and their particular character . 
Modern nations are fixed and permanent societies , connected among themselves by laws and government , bound to their native soil by arts and agriculture . 
The German tribes were voluntary and fluctuating associations of soldiers , almost of savages . 
The same territory often changed its inhabitants in the tide of conquest and emigration . 
The same communities , uniting in a plan of defence or invasion , bestowed a new title on their new confederacy . 
The dissolution of an ancient confederacy restored to the independent tribes their peculiar but long forgotten appellation . 
A victorious state often communicated its own name to a vanquished people . 
The distinctions of the ferocious invaders were perpetually varied by themselves , and confounded by the astonished subjects of the Roman empire . 
See an excellent dissertation on the origin and migrations of nations , in the Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
It is seldom that the antiquarian and the philosopher are so happily blended . 
In great monarchies , millions of obedient subjects pursue their useful occupations in peace and obscurity . 
The irregular divisions , and the restless motions , of the people of Germany , dazzle our imagination , and seem to multiply their numbers . 
Should we suspect that Athens contained only , citizens , and Sparta no more than , ? See Hume and Wallace on the number of mankind in ancient and modern times . 
Note This number , though too positively stated , is probably not far wrong , as an average estimate . 
On the subject of Athenian population , see St . 
Boeckh , Public Economy of Athens , i . 
Eng Trans , Fynes Clinton , Fasti Hellenici , vol . 
The latter author estimates the citizens of Sparta at , M. Chapter X Emperors Decius , Gallus , Aemilianus , Valerian And Gallienus . 
Part I. The Emperors Decius , Gallus , Aemilianus , Valerian , And Gallienus . 
The General Irruption Of The Barbari Ans . 
From the great secular games celebrated by Philip , to the death of the emperor Gallienus , there elapsed twenty years of shame and misfortune . 
The confusion of the times , and the scarcity of authentic memorials , oppose equal difficulties to the historian , who attempts to preserve a clear and unbroken thread of narration . 
He dreaded lest the treason of the Maesian army should prove the first spark of a general conflagration . 
Distracted with the consciousness of his guilt and of his danger , he communicated the intelligence to the senate . 
The legions of Maesia forced their judge to become their accomplice . 
They left him only the alternative of death or the purple . 
His subsequent conduct , after that decisive measure , was unavoidable . 
The Imperial troops were superior in number but the rebels formed an army of veterans , commanded by an able and experienced leader . 
Philip was either killed in the battle , or put to death a few days afterwards at Verona . 
His professions might be sincere but in the situation where fortune had placed him , it was scarcely possible that he could either forgive or be forgiven . 
The expression used by Zosimus and Zonaras may signify that Marinus commanded a century , a cohort , or a legion . 
seems to contradict , unless it was merely accidental , his supposed descent from the Decii . 
Plebeine Deciorum animae , c . 
See the spirited speech of Decius , in Livy . 
They wished to preserve the memory of their ancestors , and to transmit to posterity their own achievements . 
Many vestiges , which cannot be ascribed to the arts of popular vanity , attest the ancient residence of the Goths in the countries beyond the Rhine . 
whilst Christianity was advancing with a slow progress into the North , the Goths and the Swedes composed two distinct and sometimes hostile members of the same monarchy . 
The latter of these two names has prevailed without extinguishing the former . 
The Swedes , who might well be satisfied with their own fame in arms , have , in every age , claimed the kindred glory of the Goths . 
See the prefaces of Cassiodorus and Jornandes it is surprising that the latter should be omitted in the excellent edition , published by Grotius , of the Gothic writers . 
On the authority of Ablavius , Jornandes quotes some old Gothic chronicles in verse . 
The Goths have inhabited Scandinavia , but it was not their original habitation . 
This great nation was anciently of the Suevian race it occupied , in the time of Tacitus , and long before , Mecklenburgh , Pomerania Southern Prussia and the north west of Poland . 
took this name , as it was afterwards called Mare Suevicum , and Mare Venedicum , during the superiority of the proper Suevi and the Venedi . 
The epoch in which the Goths passed into Scandinavia is unknown . 
Martin observes , that the Scandinavian descent of the Goths rests on the authority of Jornandes , who professed to derive it from the traditions of the Goths . 
He is supported by Procopius and Paulus Diaconus . 
Yet the Goths are unquestionably the same with the Getae of the earlier historians . 
Martin , note on Le Beau , Hist . 
du bas Empire , iii . 
The identity of the Getae and Goths is by no means generally admitted . 
At this period , there seems to have been a reflux of these Gothic tribes from the North . 
Malte Brun considers that there are strong grounds for receiving the Islandic traditions commented by the Danish Varro , M. Suhm . 
between the mouths of the Vistula and the Oder . 
In their southern migration , they followed the course of the Vistula afterwards , of the Dnieper . 
Geijer , the historian of Sweden , ably maintains the Scandinavian origin of the Goths . 
The Gothic language , according to Bopp , is the link between the Sanscrit and the modern Teutonic dialects I think that I am reading Sanscrit when I am reading Olphilas . 
Bopp , Conjugations System der Sanscrit Sprache , preface , p . 
x M. Jornandes , c . 
See in the Prolegomena of Grotius some large extracts from Adam of Bremen , and Saxo Grammaticus . 
The former wrote in the year , the latter flourished about the year . 
Voltaire , Histoire de Charles XII . 
When the Austrians desired the aid of the court of Rome against Gustavus Adolphus , they always represented that conqueror as the lineal successor of Alaric . 
Harte's History of Gustavus , vol . 
Till the end of the eleventh century , a celebrated temple subsisted at Upsal , the most considerable town of the Swedes and Goths . 
were sacrificed , and their bleeding bodies suspended in the sacred grove adjacent to the temple . 
See Adam of Bremen in Grotii Prolegomenis , p . 
See Dalin's History of Sweden , in the Bibliotheque Raisonee . 
The Eddas have at length been made accessible to European scholars by the completion of the publication of the Saemundine Edda by the Arna Magnaean Commission , in vols . 
, with a copious lexicon of northern mythology . 
M. Notwithstanding the mysterious obscurity of the Edda , we can easily distinguish two persons confounded under the name of Odin the god of war , and the great legislator of Scandinavia . 
The latter , the Mahomet of the North , instituted a religion adapted to the climate and to the people . 
The faith that he had propagated , during a long and prosperous life , he confirmed by a voluntary death . 
Apprehensive of the ignominious approach of disease and infirmity , he resolved to expire as became a warrior . 
to prepare the feast of heroes in the palace of the God of war . 
Mallet , Introduction a l'Histoire du Dannemarc . 
The native and proper habitation of Odin is distinguished by the appellation of As gard . 
, has collected from Strabo , Pliny , Ptolemy , and Stephanus Byzantinus , the vestiges of such a city and people . 
Gottingen , printed for Dietericht , . 
G. Gibbon , at a later period of his work , recanted his opinion of the truth of this expedition of Odin . 
The Asiatic origin of the Goths is almost certain from the affinity of their language to the Sanscrit and Persian but their northern writers , when all mythology was reduced to hero worship . 
To cross the Baltic was an easy and natural attempt . 
Here , at length , we land on firm and historic ground . 
Westward of the Goths , the numerous tribes of the Vandals were spread along the banks of the Oder , and the sea coast of Pomerania and Mecklenburgh . 
A striking resemblance of manners , complexion , religion , and language , seemed to indicate that the Vandals and the Goths were originally one great people . 
The latter appear to have been subdivided into Ostrogoths , Visigoths , and Gepidae . 
If we could yield a firm assent to the navigations of Pytheas of Marseilles , we must allow that the Goths had passed the Baltic at least three hundred years before Christ . 
By the German colonies who followed the arms of the Teutonic knights . 
The conquest and conversion of Prussia were completed by those adventurers in the thirteenth century . 
They lived in distant ages , and possessed different means of investigating the truth . 
The Ostro and Visi , the eastern and western Goths , obtained those denominations from their original seats in Scandinavia . 
In all their future marches and settlements they preserved , with their names , the same relative situation . 
When they first departed from Sweden , the infant colony was contained in three vessels . 
The third , being a heavy sailer , lagged behind , and the crew , which afterwards swelled into a nation , received from that circumstance the appellation of Gepidae or Loiterers . 
G. This opinion is by no means probable . 
The Vandals and the Goths equally belonged to the great division of the Suevi , but the two tribes were very different . 
So Pliny calls Vindeli , Vandals , all the people of the north east of Europe , because at that epoch the Vandals were doubtless the conquering tribe . 
The Vandals themselves were then considered as Goths the Heruli , the Gepidae , c . 
, suffered the same fate . 
A common origin was thus attributed to tribes who had only been united by the conquests of some dominant nation , and this confusion has given rise to a number of historical errors . 
on the origin of the Vandals . 
The difficulty appears to be in rejecting the close analogy of the name with the Vend or Wendish race , who were of Sclavonian , not of Suevian or German , origin . 
The weight of ancient authority seems against M. St . 
Compare , on the Vandals , Malte Brun . 
Also Gibbon's note , c . 
M. In the age of the Antonines , the Goths were still seated in Prussia . 
About the reign of Alexander Severus , the Roman province of Dacia had already experienced their proximity by frequent and destructive inroads . 
Besides the influence of a martial religion , the numbers and spirit of the Goths were equal to the most dangerous adventures . 
See a fragment of Peter Patricius in the Excerpta Legationum and with regard to its probable date , see Tillemont , Hist , des Empereurs , tom . 
Omnium harum gentium insigne , rotunda scuta , breves gladii , et erga rages obsequium . 
The Goths probably acquired their iron by the commerce of amber . 
The first motions of the emigrants carried them to the banks of the Prypec , a river universally conceived by the ancients to be the southern branch of the Borysthenes . 
They followed the unknown course of the river , confident in their valor , and careless of whatever power might oppose their progress . 
The Bastarnae and the Venedi were the first who presented themselves and the flower of their youth , either from choice or compulsion , increased the Gothic army . 
, derived its origin from the Germans . 
With better authority , a Sarmatian extraction may be assigned to the Venedi , who rendered themselves so famous in the middle ages . 
But the confusion of blood and manners on that doubtful frontier often perplexed the most accurate observers . 
The Heruli , and the Uregundi or Burgundi , are particularly mentioned . 
See Mascou's History of the Germans , l . 
A passage in the Augustan History , p . 
, seems to allude to this great emigration . 
The Marcomannic war was partly occasioned by the pressure of barbarous tribes , who fled before the arms of more northern barbarians . 
D'Anville , Geographie Ancienne , and the third part of his incomparable map of Europe . 
They descended from the Gauls who entered Germany under Signoesus . 
They are always found associated with other Gaulish tribes , such as the Boll , the Taurisci , c . 
, and not to the German tribes . 
The names of their chiefs or princes , Chlonix , Chlondicus . 
Deldon , are not German names . 
Those who were settled in the island of Peuce in the Danube , took the name of Peucini . 
The Carpi appear in as a Suevian tribe who had made an irruption into Maesia . 
Afterwards they reappear under the Ostrogoths , with whom they were probably blended . 
G. The Venedi , the Slavi , and the Antes , were the three great tribes of the same people . 
Note Dagger They formed the great Sclavonian nation . 
G. Tacitus most assuredly deserves that title , and even his cautious suspense is a proof of his diligent inquiries . 
Reineggs supposed that he had found , in the mountains of Caucasus , some descendants of the Alani . 
The Tartars call them Edeki Alan they speak a peculiar dialect of the ancient language of the Tartars of Caucasus . 
G. According to Klaproth , they are the Ossetes of the present day in Mount Caucasus and were the same with the Albanians of antiquity . 
M. Chapter X Emperors Decius , Gallus , Aemilianus , Valerian And Gallienus . 
But the Goths withstood all these temptations , and still adhered to a life of idleness , of poverty , and of rapine . 
Genealogical History of the Tartars , p . 
traversed the Ukraine , in his journey from Petersburgh to Constantinople . 
The modern face of the country is a just representation of the ancient , since , in the hands of the Cossacks , it still remains in a state of nature . 
The Scythian hordes , which , towards the east , bordered on the new settlements of the Goths , presented nothing to their arms , except the doubtful chance of an unprofitable victory . 
It is probable that the conquests of Trajan , maintained by his successors , less for any real advantage than for ideal dignity , had contributed to weaken the empire on that side . 
The new and unsettled province of Dacia was neither strong enough to resist , nor rich enough to satiate , the rapaciousness of the barbarians . 
The irruptions of the Goths , under the reign of Philip , fatally convinced them of their mistake . 
In the sixteenth chapter of Jornandes , instead of secundo Maesiam we may venture to substitute secundam , the second Maesia , of which Marcianopolis was certainly the capital . 
It is surprising how this palpable error of the scribe should escape the judicious correction of Grotius . 
Note Luden has observed that Jornandes mentions two passages over the Danube this relates to the second irruption into Maesia . 
Geschichte des T V. ii . 
M. Decius found the Goths engaged before Nicopolis , one of the many monuments of Trajan's victories . 
The camp of the Romans was surprised and pillaged , and , for the first time , their emperor fled in disorder before a troop of half armed barbarians . 
After a long resistance , Philoppopolis , destitute of succor , was taken by storm . 
A hundred thousand persons are reported to have been massacred in the sack of that great city . 
The time , however , consumed in that tedious siege , enabled Decius to revive the courage , restore the discipline , and recruit the numbers of his troops . 
Encouraged by the return of fortune , he anxiously waited for an opportunity to retrieve , by a great and decisive blow , his own glory , and that of the Roman arms . 
The place is still called Nicop . 
D'Anville , Geographie Ancienne , tom . 
The little stream , on whose banks it stood , falls into the Danube . 
Zonaras , by an odd mistake , ascribes the foundation of Philippopolis to the immediate predecessor of Decius . 
Note Now Philippopolis or Philiba its situation among the hills caused it to be also called Trimontium . 
Victorioe Carpicoe , on some medals of Decius , insinuate these advantages . 
was posted in the pass of Thermopylae with Dardanians , heavy and light horse , Cretan archers , and well armed recruits . 
See an original letter from the emperor to his officer , in the Augustan History , p . 
In the general account of this war , it is easy to discover the opposite prejudices of the Gothic and the Grecian writer . 
In carelessness alone they are alike . 
He soon discovered that it was impossible to replace that greatness on a permanent basis , without restoring public virtue , ancient principles and manners , and the oppressed majesty of the laws . 
You will select those who deserve to continue members of the senate you will restore the equestrian order to its ancient splendor you will improve the revenue , yet moderate the public burdens . 
You will distinguish into regular classes the various and infinite multitude of citizens , and accurately view the military strength , the wealth , the virtue , and the resources of Rome . 
Your decisions shall obtain the force of laws . 
The army , the palace , the ministers of justice , and the great officers of the empire , are all subject to your tribunal . 
the eldest of the vestal virgins . 
Even these few , who may not dread the severity , will anxiously solicit the esteem , of the Roman censor . 
Montesquieu , Grandeur et Decadence des Romains , c . 
He illustrates the nature and use of the censorship with his usual ingenuity , and with uncommon precision . 
The modesty of Trajan refused an honor which he deserved , and his example became a law to the Antonines . 
See Pliny's Panegyric , c . 
Yet in spite of his exemption , Pompey appeared before that tribunal during his consulship . 
The occasion , indeed , was equally singular and honorable . 
See the original speech in the Augustan Hist . 
A magistrate , invested with such extensive powers , would have appeared not so much the minister , as the colleague of his sovereign . 
Valerian justly dreaded an elevation so full of envy and of suspicion . 
He modestly argued the alarming greatness of the trust , his own insufficiency , and the incurable corruption of the times . 
A censor may maintain , he can never restore , the morals of a state . 
In a period when these principles are annihilated , the censorial jurisdiction must either sink into empty pageantry , or be converted into a partial instrument of vexatious oppression . 
It was easier to vanquish the Goths than to eradicate the public vices yet even in the first of these enterprises , Decius lost his army and his life . 
This transaction might deceive Zonaras , who supposes that Valerian was actually declared the colleague of Decius , l . 
The emperor's reply is omitted . 
Such as the attempts of Augustus towards a reformation of manness . 
The Goths were now , on every side , surrounded and pursued by the Roman arms . 
The flower of their troops had perished in the long siege of Philippopolis , and the exhausted country could no longer afford subsistence for the remaining multitude of licentious barbarians . 
Reduced to this extremity , the Goths would gladly have purchased , by the surrender of all their booty and prisoners , the permission of an undisturbed retreat . 
The high spirited barbarians preferred death to slavery . 
An obscure town of Maesia , called Forum Terebronii , was the scene of the battle . 
The Gothic army was drawn up in three lines , and either from choice or accident , the front of the third line was covered by a morass . 
The conflict was terrible it was the combat of despair against grief and rage . 
The barbarians , on the contrary , were inured to encounter in the bogs , their persons tall , their spears long , such as could wound at a distance . 
In this morass the Roman army , after an ineffectual struggle , was irrecoverably lost nor could the body of the emperor ever be found . 
Tillemont , Histoire des Empereurs , tom . 
As Zosimus and some of his followers mistake the Danube for the Tanais , they place the field of battle in the plains of Scythia . 
Aurelius Victor allows two distinct actions for the deaths of the two Decii but I have preferred the account of Jornandes . 
the picture of a similar engagement between a Roman army and a German tribe . 
The Decii were killed before the end of the year two hundred and fifty one , since the new princes took possession of the consulship on the ensuing calends of January . 
, gives them a very honorable place among the small number of good emperors who reigned between Augustus and Diocletian . 
This fatal blow humbled , for a very little time , she insolence of the legions . 
They appeared to have patiently expected , and submissively obeyed , the decree of the senate which regulated the succession to the throne . 
The first care of the new emperor was to deliver the Illyrian provinces from the intolerable weight of the victorious Goths . 
They relieved the poverty of the barbarians , honored their merit , and recompensed their fidelity . 
A Sella , a Toga , and a golden Patera of five pounds weight , were accepted with joy and gratitude by the wealthy king of Egypt . 
Quina millia Aeris , a weight of copper , in value about eighteen pounds sterling , was the usual present made to foreign are ambassadors . 
See the firmness of a Roman general so late as the time of Alexander Severus , in the Excerpta Legationum , p . 
For the plague , see Jornandes , c . 
, and Victor in Caesaribus . 
These improbable accusations are alleged by Zosimus , l . 
The Gothic writer at least observed the peace which his victorious countrymen had sworn to Gallus . 
But the Romans were irritated to a still higher degree , when they discovered that they had not even secured their repose , though at the expense of their honor . 
The dangerous secret of the wealth and weakness of the empire had been revealed to the world . 
The barbarians were unexpectedly attacked , routed , chased , and pursued beyond the Danube . 
The victorious leader distributed as a donative the money collected for the tribute , and the acclamations of the soldiers proclaimed him emperor on the field of battle . 
He advanced to meet him as far as the plains of Spoleto . 
When the armies came in right of each other , the soldiers of Gallus compared the ignominious conduct of their sovereign with the glory of his rival . 
They admired the valor of Aemilianus they were attracted by his liberality , for he offered a considerable increase of pay to all deserters . 
The murder of Gallus , and of his son Volusianus , put an end to the civil war and the senate gave a legal sanction to the rights of conquest . 
The letters of Aemilianus to that assembly displayed a mixture of moderation and vanity . 
His pride was flattered by the applause of the senate and medals are still extant , representing him with the name and attributes of Hercules the Victor , and Mars the Avenger . 
If the new monarch possessed the abilities , he wanted the time , necessary to fulfil these splendid promises . 
Less than four months intervened between his victory and his fall . 
He had vanquished Gallus he sunk under the weight of a competitor more formidable than Gallus . 
That unfortunate prince had sent Valerian , already distinguished by the honorable title of censor , to bring the legions of Gaul and Germany to his aid . 
Valerian executed that commission with zeal and fidelity and as he arrived too late to save his sovereign , he resolved to revenge him . 
Eutropius and Victor station Valerian's army in Rhaetia . 
Aurelius Victor says that Aemilianus died of a natural disorder . 
In his gradual ascent through the honors of the state , he had deserved the favor of virtuous princes , and had declared himself the enemy of tyrants . 
had been left at liberty to choose a master , their choice would most assuredly have fallen on Valerian . 
Perhaps the merit of this emperor was inadequate to his reputation perhaps his abilities , or at least his spirit , were affected by the languor and coldness of old age . 
The joint government of the father and the son subsisted about seven , and the sole administration of Gallien continued about eight , years . 
But the whole period was one uninterrupted series of confusion and calamity . 
The most dangerous enemies of Rome , during the reigns of Valerian and Gallienus , were , . 
He was about seventy at the time of his accession , or , as it is more probable , of his death . 
In the glorious struggle of the senate against Maximin , Valerian acted a very spirited part . 
According to the distinction of Victor , he seems to have received the title of Imperator from the army , and that of Augustus from the senate . 
very justly infers , that Gallienus was associated to the empire about the month of August of the year . 
To the tales of credulity have succeeded the systems of fancy . 
Every passage has been sifted , every spot has been surveyed , that might possibly reveal some faint traces of their origin . 
It has been supposed that Pannonia , that Gaul , that the northern parts of Germany , gave birth to that celebrated colony of warriors . 
At length the most rational critics , rejecting the fictitious emigrations of ideal conquerors , have acquiesced in a sentiment whose simplicity persuades us of its truth . 
The love of liberty was the ruling passion of these Germans the enjoyment of it their best treasure the word that expressed that enjoyment , the most pleasing to their ear . 
Tacit consent , and mutual advantage , dictated the first laws of the union it was gradually cemented by habit and experience . 
But the principle of the two confederacies was extremely different . 
A peace of two hundred years has rewarded the wise and honest policy of the Swiss . 
An inconstant spirit , the thirst of rapine , and a disregard to the most solemn treaties , disgraced the character of the Franks . 
Various systems have been formed to explain a difficult passage in Gregory of Tours , l . 
The Geographer of Ravenna , i . 
, by mentioning Mauringania , on the confines of Denmark , as the ancient seat of the Franks , gave birth to an ingenious system of Leibritz . 
M. Freret , in the Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
Most probably under the reign of Gordian , from an accidental circumstance fully canvassed by Tillemont , tom . 
The confederation of the Franks appears to have been formed , . 
Of the Sicambri , the inhabitants of the duchy of Berg . 
Of the Attuarii , to the north of the Sicambri , in the principality of Waldeck , between the Dimel and the Eder . 
Of the Bructeri , on the banks of the Lippe , and in the Hartz . 
Of the Chamavii , the Gambrivii of Tacitua , who were established , at the time of the Frankish confederation , in the country of the Bructeri . 
Of the Catti , in Hessia . 
G. The Salii and Cherasci are added . 
The Panegyrists frequently allude to the morasses of the Franks . 
In a subsequent period , most of those old names are occasionally mentioned . 
See some vestiges of them in Cluver . 
Chapter X Emperors Decius , Gallus , Aemilianus , Valerian And Gallienus . 
The Romans had long experienced the daring valor of the people of Lower Germany . 
The union of their strength threatened Gaul with a more formidable invasion , and required the presence of Gallienus , the heir and colleague of Imperial power . 
The treacherous language of panegyrics and medals darkly announces a long series of victories . 
the fame of Posthumus , who is repeatedly styled the Conqueror of the Germans , and the Savior of Gaul . 
has given us a very curious life of Posthumus . 
A series of the Augustan History from Medals and Inscriptions has been more than once planned , and is still much wanted . 
a valuable Descriptive Catologue of a series of Large Brass Medals of this period Bedford , . 
But a single fact , the only one indeed of which we have any distinct knowledge , erases , in a great measure , these monuments of vanity and adulation . 
The Rhine , though dignified with the title of Safeguard of the provinces , was an imperfect barrier against the daring spirit of enterprise with which the Franks were actuated . 
Their rapid devastations stretched from the river to the foot of the Pyrenees nor were they stopped by those mountains . 
Spain , which had never dreaded , was unable to resist , the inroads of the Germans . 
During twelve years , the greatest part of the reign of Gallie nus , that opulent country was the theatre of unequal and destructive hostilities . 
When the exhausted country no longer supplied a variety of plunder , the Franks seized on some vessels in the ports of Spain , and transported themselves into Mauritania . 
which probably was the consequence of this invasion . 
Valesius is therefore mistaken in supposing that the Franks had invaded Spain by sea . 
None were permitted to enter the holy precincts , without confessing , by their servile bonds and suppliant posture , the immediate presence of the sovereign Deity . 
Patriotism contributed , as well as devotion , to consecrate the Sonnenwald , or wood of the Semnones . 
It was universally believed , that the nation had received its first existence on that sacred spot . 
The wide extended name of Suevi filled the interior countries of Germany , from the banks of the Oder to those of the Danube . 
Sic Suevi a ceteris Germanis , sic Suerorum ingenui a servis separantur . 
A proud separation ! Caesar in Bello Gallico , iv . 
The latter was soon felt by the Romans in many a hostile inroad . 
The nation of the Alemanni was not originally formed by the Suavi properly so called these have always preserved their own name . 
an irruption into Rhaetia , and it was not long after that they were reunited with the Alemanni . 
and Aurelius Victor gives the same praise to the Alemanni finally , they never made part of the Frankish league . 
The Alemanni became subsequently a centre round which gathered a multitude of German tribes , See Eumen . 
History of Germany , vol i . 
is preserved by Asinius Quadratus , an original historian , quoted by Agathias , i . 
But still hovering on the frontiers of the empire , they increased the general disorder that ensued after the death of Decius . 
They inflicted severe wounds on the rich provinces of Gaul they were the first who removed the veil that covered the feeble majesty of Italy . 
The insult and the danger rekindled in the senate some sparks of their ancient virtue . 
Both the emperors were engaged in far distant wars , Valerian in the East , and Gallienus on the Rhine . 
All the hopes and resources of the Romans were in themselves . 
His timid ingratitude was published to his subjects , in an edict which prohibited the senators from exercising any military employment , and even from approaching the camps of the legions . 
But his fears were groundless . 
Victor , in Gallieno et Probo . 
His complaints breathe as uncommon spirit of freedom . 
Another invasion of the Alemanni , of a more formidable aspect , but more glorious event , is mentioned by a writer of the lower empire . 
Three hundred thousand are said to have been vanquished , in a battle near Milan , by Gallienus in person , at the head of only ten thousand Romans . 
We may , however , with great probability , ascribe this incredible victory either to the credulity of the historian , or to some exaggerated exploits of one of the emperor's lieutenants . 
It was by arms of a very different nature , that Gallienus endeavored to protect Italy from the fury of the Germans . 
He espoused Pipa , the daughter of a king of the Marcomanni , a Suevic tribe , which was often confounded with the Alemanni in their wars and conquests . 
To the father , as the price of his alliance , he granted an ample settlement in Pannonia . 
The native charms of unpolished beauty seem to have fixed the daughter in the affections of the inconstant emperor , and the bands of policy were more firmly connected by those of love . 
One of the Victors calls him king of the Marcomanni the other of the Germans . 
But the great stream of the Gothic hostilities was diverted into a very different channel . 
See the lives of Claudius , Aurelian , and Probus , in the Augustan History . 
The banks of the Borysthenes are only sixty miles distant from the narrow entrance of the peninsula of Crim Tartary , known to the ancients under the name of Chersonesus Taurica . 
On that inhospitable shore , Euripides , embellishing with exquisite art the tales of antiquity , has placed the scene of one of his most affecting tragedies . 
The little kingdom of Bosphorus , whose capital was situated on the Straits , through which the Maeotis communicates itself to the Euxine , was composed of degenerate Greeks and half civilized barbarians . 
From the reign of Augustus , the kings of Bosphorus were the humble , but not useless , allies of the empire . 
As long as the sceptre was possessed by a lineal succession of kings , they acquitted themselves of their important charge with vigilance and success . 
Domestic factions , and the fears , or private interest , of obscure usurpers , who seized on the vacant throne , admitted the Goths into the heart of Bosphorus . 
With the acquisition of a superfluous waste of fertile soil , the conquerors obtained the command of a naval force , sufficient to transport their armies to the coast of Asia . 
This ships used in the navigation of the Euxine were of a very singular construction . 
They were slight flat bottomed barks framed of timber only , without the least mixture of iron , and occasionally covered with a shelving roof , on the appearance of a tempest . 
Such , at least , is the practice of the modern Turks and they are probably not inferior , in the art of navigation , to the ancient inhabitants of Bosphorus . 
It is about half a league in breadth . 
Genealogical History of the Tartars , p . 
M. de Peyssonel , who had been French Consul at Caffa , in his Observations sur les Peuples Barbares , que ont habite les bords du Danube Eeripides in Iphigenia in Taurid . 
The first kings of Bosphorus were the allies of Athens . 
It was reduced by the arms of Agrippa . 
The Romans once advanced within three days' march of the Tanais . 
See the Toxaris of Lucian , if we credit the sincerity and the virtues of the Scythian , who relates a great war of his nation against the kings of Bosphorus . 
See a very natural picture of the Euxine navigation , in the xvith letter of Tournefort . 
Here they met with a resistance more obstinate than they had reason to expect from the feeble garrison of a distant fortress . 
They were repulsed and their disappointment seemed to diminish the terror of the Gothic name . 
Arrian places the frontier garrison at Dioscurias , or Sebastopolis , forty four miles to the east of Pityus . 
The garrison of Phasis consisted in his time of only four hundred foot . 
See the Periplus of the Euxine . 
Note Pityus is Pitchinda , according to D'Anville , ii . 
Circling round the eastern extremity of the Euxine Sea , the navigation from Pityus to Trebizond is about three hundred miles . 
But there are not any advantages capable of supplying the absence of discipline and vigilance . 
The numerous garrison of Trebizond , dissolved in riot and luxury , disdained to guard their impregnable fortifications . 
A general massacre of the people ensued , whilst the affrighted soldiers escaped through the opposite gates of the town . 
The most holy temples , and the most splendid edifices , were involved in a common destruction . 
The booty that fell into the hands of the Goths was immense the wealth of the adjacent countries had been deposited in Trebizond , as in a secure place of refuge . 
The number of captives was incredible , as the victorious barbarians ranged without opposition through the extensive province of Pontus . 
The rich spoils of Trebizond filled a great fleet of ships that had been found in the port . 
Xenophon , Anabasis , l . 
The general observation is Tournefort's . 
See an epistle of Gregory Thaumaturgus , bishop of Neo Caeoarea , quoted by Mascou , v . 
But it was in numbers alone that they surpassed it . 
They deserted with precipitation their advantageous post , and abandoned the town of Chalcedon , most plentifully stored with arms and money , to the discretion of the conquerors . 
Three hundred years of peace , enjoyed by the soft inhabitants of Asia , had abolished the exercise of arms , and removed the apprehension of danger . 
The ancient walls were suffered to moulder away , and all the revenue of the most opulent cities was reserved for the construction of baths , temples , and theatres . 
It has preserved its name , joined to the preposition of place in that of Nikmid . 
! Now Isnik , Bursa , Mondania Ghio or Kemlik D'Anv . 
From the recent sack of Prusa , the Goths advanced within eighteen miles . 
of the city , which they had devoted to destruction but the ruin of Cyzicus was delayed by a fortunate accident . 
The season was rainy , and the Lake Apolloniates , the reservoir of all the springs of Mount Olympus , rose to an uncommon height . 
The little river of Rhyndacus , which issues from the lake , swelled into a broad and rapid stream , and stopped the progress of the Goths . 
Some obscure hints are mentioned of a doubtful combat that secured their retreat . 
But even a complete victory would have been of little moment , as the approach of the autumnal equinox summoned them to hasten their return . 
To navigate the Euxine before the month of May , or after that of September , is esteemed by the modern Turks the most unquestionable instance of rashness and folly . 
He besieged the place with galleys , , foot , and a numerous cavalry . 
Appian in Mithridat Cicero pro Lege Manilia , c . 
Pocock's Description of the East , l . 
Syncellus tells an unintelligible story of Prince Odenathus , who defeated the Goths , and who was killed by Prince Odenathus . 
Voyages de Chardin , tom . 
He sailed with the Turks from Constantinople to Caffa . 
Impatient of the limits of the Euxine , they steered their destructive course from the Cimmerian to the Thracian Bosphorus . 
Their landing on the little island of Cyzicus was attended with the ruin of that ancient and noble city . 
From thence issuing again through the narrow passage of the Hellespont , they pursued their winding navigation amidst the numerous islands scattered over the Archipelago , or the Aegean Sea . 
At length the Gothic fleet anchored in the port of Piraeus , five miles distant from Athens , which had attempted to make some preparations for a vigorous defence . 
The efforts of his skill were ineffectual , and the barbarians became masters of the native seat of the muses and the arts . 
speaks of this expedition , as undertaken by the Heruli . 
It is not without some attention , that we can explain and conciliate their imperfect hints . 
We can still discover some traces of the partiality of Dexippus , in the relation of his own and his countrymen's exploits . 
Note According to a new fragment of Dexippus , published by Mai , he men . 
He took up a strong position in a mountainous and woods district , and kept up a harassing warfare . 
He expresses a hope of being speedily joined by the Imperial fleet . 
Byzantinorum Collect a Niebuhr , p . 
, M. But this exploit , whatever lustre it might shed on the declining age of Athens , served rather to irritate than to subdue the undaunted spirit of the northern invaders . 
A general conflagration blazed out at the same time in every district of Greece . 
The rage of war , both by land and by sea , spread from the eastern point of Sunium to the western coast of Epirus . 
The Goths had already advanced within sight of Italy , when the approach of such imminent danger awakened the indolent Gallienus from his dream of pleasure . 
The emperor appeared in arms and his presence seems to have checked the ardor , and to have divided the strength , of the enemy . 
The wild attempt would have proved inevitable destruction , if the discord of the Roman generals had not opened to the barbarians the means of an escape . 
What remained of the voyage was a short and easy navigation . 
Such was the various fate of this third and greatest of their naval enterprises . 
It may seem difficult to conceive how the original body of fifteen thousand warriors could sustain the losses and divisions of so bold an adventure . 
This body of Heruli was for a long time faithful and famous . 
Claudius , who commanded on the Danube , thought with propriety and acted with spirit . 
His colleague was jealous of his fame Hist . 
give the name of Scythians to those whom Jornandes , and the Latin writers , constantly represent as Goths . 
Chapter X Emperors Decius , Gallus , Aemilianus , Valerian And Gallienus . 
In the general calamities of mankind , the death of an individual , however exalted , the ruin of an edifice , however famous , are passed over with careless inattention . 
The arts of Greece , and the wealth of Asia , had conspired to erect that sacred and magnificent structure . 
It was supported by a hundred and twenty seven marble columns of the Ionic order . 
They were the gifts of devout monarchs , and each was sixty feet high . 
Yet the length of the temple of Ephesus was only four hundred and twenty five feet , about two thirds of the measure of the church of St . 
In the other dimensions , it was still more inferior to that sublime production of modern architecture . 
The temple of Diana was , however , admired as one of the wonders of the world . 
Successive empires , the Persian , the Macedonian , and the Roman , had revered its sanctity and enriched its splendor . 
But the rude savages of the Baltic were destitute of a taste for the elegant arts , and they despised the ideal terrors of a foreign superstition . 
Peter's is Roman palms each palm is very little short of nine English inches . 
They offered no sacrifices to the Grecian gods . 
Another circumstance is related of these invasions , which might deserve our notice , were it not justly to be suspected as the fanciful conceit of a recent sophist . 
reasoned like an ignorant barbarian . 
Such an anecdote was perfectly suited to the taste of Montaigne . 
He makes use of it in his agreeable Essay on Pedantry , l . 
over the house of Arsaces . 
Of the many princes of that ancient race . 
Chosroes , king of Armenia , had alone preserved both his life and his independence . 
He defended himself by the natural strength of his country by the perpetual resort of fugitives and malecontents by the alliance of the Romans , and above all , by his own courage . 
Invincible in arms , during a thirty years' war , he was at length assassinated by the emissaries of Sapor , king of Persia . 
The patriotic satraps of Armenia , who asserted the freedom and dignity of the crown , implored the protection of Rome in favor of Tiridates , the lawful heir . 
But the son of Chosroes was an infant , the allies were at a distance , and the Persian monarch advanced towards the frontier at the head of an irresistible force . 
The anthentic relation of the Armenian historian serves to rectify the confused account of the Greek . 
The latter talks of the children of Tiridates , who at that time was himself an infant . 
Nisibis , according to Persian authors , was taken by a miracle , the wall fell , in compliance with the prayers of the army . 
During his progress through Asia Minor , the naval enterprises of the Goths were suspended , and the afflicted province enjoyed a transient and fallacious calm . 
He passed the Euphrates , encountered the Persian monarch near the walls of Edessa , was vanquished , and taken prisoner by Sapor . 
He reposed an implicit confidence in Macrianus , his Praetorian praefect . 
That worthless minister rendered his master formidable only to the oppressed subjects , and contemptible to the enemies of Rome . 
By his weak or wicked counsels , the Imperial army was betrayed into a situation where valor and military skill were equally unavailing . 
The licentious murmurs of the legions soon accused Valerian as the cause of their calamities their seditious clamors demanded an instant capitulation . 
An immense sum of gold was offered to purchase the permission of a disgraceful retreat . 
Valerian was reduced to the necessity of intrusting his life and dignity to the faith of an enemy . 
The interview ended as it was natural to expect . 
The emperor was made a prisoner , and his astonished troops laid down their arms . 
In such a moment of triumph , the pride and policy of Sapor prompted him to fill the vacant throne with a successor entirely dependent on his pleasure . 
As Macrianus was an enemy to the Christians , they charged him with being a magician . 
Peter Patricius , in the Excerpta Legat . 
He conducted Sapor over the Euphrates , and , by the way of Chalcis , to the metropolis of the East . 
The splendid buildings of Antioch , private as well as public , were either pillaged or destroyed and the numerous inhabitants were put to the sword , or led away into captivity . 
The tide of devastation was stopped for a moment by the resolution of the high priest of Emesa . 
Demosthenes commanded in the place , not so much by the commission of the emperor , as in the voluntary defence of his country . 
The sack of Antioch , anticipated by some historians , is assigned , by the decisive testimony of Ammianus Marcellinus , to the reign of Gallienus , xxiii . 
Note Heyne , in his note on Zosimus , contests this opinion of Gibbon and observes , that the testimony of Ammianus is in fact by no means clear , decisive . 
Gallienus and Valerian reigned together . 
Zosimus , in a passage , l . 
, , distinctly places this event before the capture of Valerian . 
He corrupts this probable event by some fabulous circumstances . 
Deep valleys were filled up with the slain . 
Crowds of prisoners were driven to water like beasts , and many perished for want of food . 
asserts , that Sapor , had he not preferred spoil to conquest , might have remained master of Asia . 
The rich offering was accompanied with an epistle , respectful , but not servile , from Odenathus , one of the noblest and most opulent senators of Palmyra . 
Should he hesitate , swift destruction shall be poured on his head , on his whole race , and on his country . 
The desperate extremity to which the Palmyrenian was reduced , called into action all the latent powers of his soul . 
He met Sapor but he met him in arms . 
By this exploit , Odenathus laid the foundations of his future fame and fortunes . 
The majesty of Rome , oppressed by a Persian , was protected by a Syrian or Arab of Palmyra . 
and several inscriptions , agree in making Odenathus a citizen of Palmyra . 
and John Malala , style him Prince of the Saracens . 
The voice of history , which is often little more than the organ of hatred or flattery , reproaches Sapor with a proud abuse of the rights of conquest . 
The tale is moral and pathetic , but the truth ! of it may very fairly be called in question . 
The Pagan writers lament , the Christian insult , the misfortunes of Valerian . 
Their various testimonies are accurately collected by Tillemont , tom . 
So little has been preserved of eastern history before Mahomet , that the modern Persians are totally ignorant of the victory Sapor , an event so glorious to their nation . 
Note Malcolm appears to write from Persian authorities , i . 
Respect for the kingly character would by no means prevent an eastern monarch from ratifying his pride and his vengeance on a fallen foe . 
M. One of these epistles is from Artavasdes , king of Armenia since Armenia was then a province of Persia , the king , the kingdom , and the epistle must be fictitious . 
The emperor Gallienus , who had long supported with impatience the censorial severity of his father and colleague , received the intelligence of his misfortunes with secret pleasure and avowed indifference . 
I knew that my father was a mortal , said he and since he has acted as it becomes a brave man , I am satisfied . 
Whilst Rome lamented the fate of her sovereign , the savage coldness of his son was extolled by the servile courtiers as the perfect firmness of a hero and a stoic . 
It is difficult to paint the light , the various , the inconstant character of Gallienus , which he displayed without constraint , as soon as he became sole possessor of the empire . 
He was a master of several curious , but useless sciences , a ready orator , an elegant poet , a skilful gardener , an excellent cook , and most contemptible prince . 
His profuse magnificence insulted the general poverty the solemn ridicule of his triumphs impressed a deeper sense of the public disgrace . 
See his life in the Augustan History . 
He was on the point of giving Plotinus a ruined city of Campania to try the experiment of realizing Plato's Republic . 
See the Life of Plotinus , by Porphyry , in Fabricius's Biblioth . 
A medal which bears the head of Gallienus has perplexed the antiquarians by its legend and reverse the former Gallienoe Augustoe , the latter Ubique Pax . 
M. Spanheim supposes that the coin was struck by some of the enemies of Gallienus , and was designed as a severe satire on that effeminate prince . 
But as the use of irony may seem unworthy of the gravity of the Roman mint , M. de Vallemont has deduced from a passage of Trebellius Pollio an ingenious and natural solution . 
Galliena was first cousin to the emperor . 
By delivering Africa from the usurper Celsus , she deserved the title of Augusta . 
On a medal in the French king's collection , we read a similar inscription of Faustina Augusta round the head of Marcus Aurelius . 
With regard to the Ubique Pax , it is easily explained by the vanity of Gallienus , who seized , perhaps , the occasion of some momentary calm . 
See Nouvelles de la Republique des Lettres , Janvier , , p . 
This singular character has , I believe , been fairly transmitted to us . 
But in every light the parallel is idle and defective . 
To illustrate the obscure monuments of the life and death of each individual , would prove a laborious task , alike barren of instruction and of amusement . 
Pollio expresses the most minute anxiety to complete the number . 
Note Compare a dissertation of Manso on the thirty tyrants at the end of his Leben Constantius des Grossen . 
M. The place of his reign is somewhat doubtful but there was a tyrant in Pontus , and we are acquainted with the seat of all the others . 
Captain Smyth , in his Catalogue of Medals , p . 
, substitutes two new names to make up the number of nineteen , for those of Odenathus and Zenobia . 
Of those whose coins Those whose coins Those of whom no are undoubtedly true . 
Sulpicius Antoninus Tillemont , tom . 
, reckons them somewhat differently . 
Several of the pretenders , who raised the standard of rebellion against the emperor Gallienus , were shining models of virtue , and almost all possessed a considerable share of vigor and ability . 
Their merit had recommended them to the favor of Valerian , and gradually promoted them to the most important commands of the empire . 
In times of confusion , every active genius finds the place assigned him by nature in a general state of war , military merit is the road to glory and to greatness . 
Of the nineteen tyrants Tetricus only was a senator Piso alone was a noble . 
The personal qualities of Piso added new lustre to his race . 
See Roman Coins From The British Museum . 
See the speech of Marius in the Augustan History , p . 
The accidental identity of names was the only circumstance that could tempt Pollio to imitate Sallust . 
Marius was killed by a soldier , who had formerly served as a workman in his shop , and who exclaimed , as he struck , Behold the sword which thyself hast forged . 
G. Vos , O Pompilius sanguis ! is Horace's address to the Pisos See Art . 
, with Dacier's and Sanadon's notes . 
In the former of these passages we may venture to change paterna into materna . 
In every generation from Augustus to Alexander Severus , one or more Pisos appear as consuls . 
a second headed a formidable conspiracy against Nero and a third was adopted , and declared Caesar , by Galba . 
The senate , in a moment of enthusiasm , seems to have presumed on the approbation of Gallienus . 
The lieutenants of Valerian were grateful to the father , whom they esteemed . 
They disdained to serve the luxurious indolence of his unworthy son . 
The throne of the Roman world was unsupported by any principle of loyalty and treason against such a prince might easily be considered as patriotism to the state . 
They dreaded the cruel suspicions of Gallienus they equally dreaded the capricious violence of their troops . 
When the clamor of the soldiers invested the reluctant victims with the ensigns of sovereign authority , they sometimes mourned in secret their approaching fate . 
You have lost , said Saturninus , on the day of his elevation , you have lost a useful commander , and you have made a very wretched emperor . 
The apprehensions of Saturninus were justified by the repeated experience of revolutions . 
Of the nineteen tyrants who started up under the reign of Gallienus , there was not one who enjoyed a life of peace , or a natural death . 
As soon as they were invested with the bloody purple , they inspired their adherents with the same fears and ambition which had occasioned their own revolt . 
Italy , Rome , and the senate , constantly adhered to the cause of Gallienus , and he alone was considered as the sovereign of the empire . 
That prince condescended , indeed , to acknowledge the victorious arms of Odenathus , who deserved the honorable distinction , by the respectful conduct which he always maintained towards the son of Valerian . 
The association of the brave Palmyrenian was the most popular act of the whole reign of Gallienus . 
The election of these precarious emperors , their power and their death , were equally destructive to their subjects and adherents . 
The price of their fatal elevation was instantly discharged to the troops by an immense donative , drawn from the bowels of the exhausted people . 
However virtuous was their character , however pure their intentions , they found themselves reduced to the hard necessity of supporting their usurpation by frequent acts of rapine and cruelty . 
When they fell , they involved armies and provinces in their fall . 
There is still extant a most savage mandate from Gallienus to one of his ministers , after the suppression of Ingenuus , who had assumed the purple in Illyricum . 
It is not enough , says that soft but inhuman prince , that you exterminate such as have appeared in arms the chance of battle might have served me as effectually . 
The male sex of every age must be extirpated provided that , in the execution of the children and old men , you can contrive means to save our reputation . 
Remember that Ingenuus was made emperor tear , kill , hew in pieces . 
I write to you with my own hand , and would inspire you with my own feelings . 
Whilst the public forces of the state were dissipated in private quarrels , the defenceless provinces lay exposed to every invader . 
Gallienus had given the titles of Caesar and Augustus to his son Saloninus , slain at Cologne by the usurper Posthumus . 
See Tillemont , tom iii , and M. de Brequigny in the Memoires de l'Academie , tom xxxii p . 
Regillianus had some bands of Roxolani in his service Posthumus a body of Franks . 
It was , perhaps , in the character of auxiliaries that the latter introduced themselves into Spain . 
As far as the barrenness of materials would permit , we have attempted to trace , with order and perspicuity , the general events of that calamitous period . 
There still remain some particular facts I. The disorders of Sicily II . 
The tumults of Alexandria and , III . 
The rebellion of the Isaurians , which may serve to reflect a strong light on the horrid picture . 
The situation of Sicily preserved it from the Barbarians nor could the disarmed province have supported a usurper . 
The sufferings of that once flourishing and still fertile island were inflicted by baser hands . 
A licentious crowd of slaves and peasants reigned for a while over the plundered country , and renewed the memory of the servile wars of more ancient times . 
The Augustan History , p . 
The foundation of Alexandria was a noble design , at once conceived and executed by the son of Philip . 
The lucrative trade of Arabia and India flowed through the port of Alexandria , to the capital and provinces of the empire . 
Some were employed in blowing of glass , others in weaving of linen , others again manufacturing the papyrus . 
Either sex , and every age , was engaged in the pursuits of industry , nor did even the blind or the lame want occupations suited to their condition . 
But the people of Alexandria , a various mixture of nations , united the vanity and inconstancy of the Greeks with the superstition and obstinacy of the Egyptians . 
Berenice , or Myos Hormos , on the Red Sea , received the eastern commodities . 
From thence they were transported to the Nile , and down the Nile to Alexandria . 
M. See a very curious letter of Hadrian , in the Augustan History , p . 
Such as the sacrilegious murder of a divine cat . 
Note The hostility between the Jewish and Grecian part of the population afterwards between the two former and the Christian , were unfailing causes of tumult , sedition , and massacre . 
In no place were the religious disputes , after the establishment of Christianity , more frequent or more sanguinary . 
This long and terrible sedition was first occasioned by a dispute between a soldier and a townsman about a pair of shoes . 
The Bruchion was a quarter of Alexandria which extended along the largest of the two ports , and contained many palaces , inhabited by the Ptolemies . 
Three dissertations of M. Bonamy , in the Mem . 
The obscure rebellion of Trebellianus , who assumed the purple in Isauria , a petty province of Asia Minor , was attended with strange and memorable consequences . 
Their craggy rocks , a branch of the wide extended Taurus , protected their inaccessible retreat . 
The tillage of some fertile valleys supplied them with necessaries , and a habit of rapine with the luxuries of life . 
In the heart of the Roman monarchy , the Isaurians long continued a nation of wild barbarians . 
See Cellarius , Geogr Antiq . 
, upon the limits of Isauria . 
But a long and general famine was a calamity of a more serious kind . 
It was the inevitable consequence of rapine and oppression , which extirpated the produce of the present , and the hope of future harvests . 
Famine is almost always followed by epidemical diseases , the effect of scanty and unwholesome food . 
During some time five thousand persons died daily in Rome and many towns , that had escaped the hands of the Barbarians , were entirely depopulated . 
We have the knowledge of a very curious circumstance , of some use perhaps in the melancholy calculation of human calamities . 
An exact register was kept at Alexandria of all the citizens entitled to receive the distribution of corn . 
The fact is taken from the Letters of Dionysius , who , in the time of those troubles , was bishop of Alexandria . 
In a great number of parishes , , persons were found between fourteen and eighty between forty and seventy . 
See Buffon , Histoire Naturelle , tom . 
Chapter XI Reign Of Claudius , Defeat Of The Goths . 
Part I. Reign Of Claudius . 
Victories , Triumph , And Death Of Aurelian . 
Under the deplorable reigns of Valerian and Gallienus , the empire was oppressed and almost destroyed by the soldiers , the tyrants , and the barbarians . 
It was saved by a series of great princes , who derived their obscure origin from the martial provinces of Illyricum . 
The removal of an effeminate tyrant made way for a succession of heroes . 
The indignation of the people imputed all their calamities to Gallienus , and the far greater part were indeed , the consequence of his dissolute manners and careless administration . 
The emperor , provoked by the insult , and alarmed by the instant danger , suddenly exerted that latent vigor which sometimes broke through the indolence of his temper . 
Forcing himself from the luxury of the palace , he appeared in arms at the head of his legions , and advanced beyond the Po to encounter his competitor . 
The Rhaetian usurper , after receiving a total defeat and a dangerous wound , retired into Milan . 
Pons Aureoli , thirteen miles from Bergamo , and thirty two from Milan . 
Near this place , in the year , the obstinate battle of Cassano was fought between the French and Austrians . 
The excellent relation of the Chevalier de Folard , who was present , gives a very distinct idea of the ground . 
See Polybe de Folard , tom . 
His last resource was an attempt to seduce the loyalty of the besiegers . 
The arts of Aureolus diffused fears and discontent among the principal officers of his rival . 
A conspiracy was formed by Heraclianus the Praetorian praefect , by Marcian , a general of rank and reputation , and by Cecrops , who commanded a numerous body of Dalmatian guards . 
Encompassed by his declared or concealed enemies , he soon , amidst the nocturnal tumult , received a mortal dart from an uncertain hand . 
The report at least was diligently propagated , and the order cheerfully obeyed by the conspirators , who had already agreed to place Claudius on the throne . 
They then ratified the election , and acknowledged the merit of their new sovereign . 
On the death of Gallienus , see Trebellius Pollio in Hist . 
I have compared and blended them all , but have chiefly followed Aurelius Victor , who seems to have had the best memoirs . 
The obscurity which covered the origin of Claudius , though it was afterwards embellished by some flattering fictions , sufficiently betrays the meanness of his birth . 
By his victories over the Goths , he deserved from the senate the honor of a statue , and excited the jealous apprehensions of Gallienus . 
It was impossible that a soldier could esteem so dissolute a sovereign , nor is it easy to conceal a just contempt . 
Some unguarded expressions which dropped from Claudius were officiously transmitted to the royal ear . 
The emperor's answer to an officer of confidence describes in very lively colors his own character , and that of the times . 
I myself have sent him some presents be it your care that he accept them with pleasure . 
Above all , let him not suspect that I am made acquainted with his imprudence . 
The fear of my anger might urge him to desperate counsels . 
When Claudius ascended the throne , he was about fifty four years of age . 
Some supposed him , oddly enough , to be a bastard of the younger Gordian . 
Others took advantage of the province of Dardania , to deduce his origin from Dardanus , and the ancient kings of Troy . 
Notoria , a periodical and official despatch which the emperor received from the frumentarii , or agents dispersed through the provinces . 
Of these we may speak hereafter . 
Gallienus describes the plate , vestments , etc . 
, like a man who loved and understood those splendid trifles . 
affirms that Claudius acquired the empire in a just and even holy manner . 
But we may distrust the partiality of a kinsman . 
The siege of Milan was still continued , and Aureolus soon discovered that the success of his artifices had only raised up a more determined adversary . 
He attempted to negotiate with Claudius a treaty of alliance and partition . 
This stern refusal , and a last unsuccessful effort , obliged Aureolus to yield the city and himself to the discretion of the conqueror . 
The judgment of the army pronounced him worthy of death and Claudius , after a feeble resistance , consented to the execution of the sentence . 
Nor was the zeal of the senate less ardent in the cause of their new sovereign . 
The senate was permitted to discharge the ungrateful office of punishment , and the emperor reserved for himself the pleasure and merit of obtaining by his intercession a general act of indemnity . 
There are some trifling differences concerning the circumstances of the last defeat and death of Aureolus Aurelius Victor in Gallien . 
The people loudly prayed for the damnation of Gallienus . 
The senate decreed that his relations and servants should be thrown down headlong from the Gemonian stairs . 
An obnoxious officer of the revenue had his eyes torn out whilst under examination . 
Note The expression is curious , terram matrem deosque inferos impias uti Gallieno darent . 
M. Such ostentatious clemency discovers less of the real character of Claudius , than a trifling circumstance in which he seems to have consulted only the dictates of his heart . 
On the accession of Claudius , an old woman threw herself at his feet , and complained that a general of the late emperor had obtained an arbitrary grant of her patrimony . 
This general was Claudius himself , who had not entirely escaped the contagion of the times . 
The emperor blushed at the reproach , but deserved the confidence which she had reposed in his equity . 
The confession of his fault was accompanied with immediate and ample restitution . 
In the arduous task which Claudius had undertaken , of restoring the empire to its ancient splendor , it was first necessary to revive among his troops a sense of order and obedience . 
It was against those barbarians , he declared , that he intended to point the first effort of their arms . 
Tetricus might reign for a while over the West , and even Zenobia might preserve the dominion of the East . 
prove that Tetricus was already emperor of the western provinces . 
The various nations of Germany and Sarmatia , who fought under the Gothic standard , had already collected an armament more formidable than any which had yet issued from the Euxine . 
Whatever might be the real strength of the Goths , the vigor and success of the expedition were not adequate to the greatness of the preparations . 
The Augustan History mentions the smaller , Zonaras the larger number the lively fancy of Montesquieu induced him to prefer the latter . 
We still posses an original letter addressed by Claudius to the senate and people on this memorable occasion . 
Conscript fathers , says the emperor , know that three hundred and twenty thousand Goths have invaded the Roman territory . 
If I vanquish them , your gratitude will reward my services . 
Should I fall , remember that I am the successor of Gallienus . 
The whole republic is fatigued and exhausted . 
We shall fight after Valerian , after Ingenuus , Regillianus , Lollianus , Posthumus , Celsus , and a thousand others , whom a just contempt for Gallienus provoked into rebellion . 
We are in want of darts , of spears , and of shields . 
The strength of the empire , Gaul , and Spain , are usurped by Tetricus , and we blush to acknowledge that the archers of the East serve under the banners of Zenobia . 
Whatever we shall perform will be sufficiently great . 
The melancholy firmness of this epistle announces a hero careless of his fate , conscious of his danger , but still deriving a well grounded hope from the resources of his own mind . 
The event surpassed his own expectations and those of the world . 
By the most signal victories he delivered the empire from this host of barbarians , and was distinguished by posterity under the glorious appellation of the Gothic Claudius . 
I. The decisive battle was fought near Naissus , a city of Dardania . 
The legions at first gave way , oppressed by numbers , and dismayed by misfortunes . 
Their ruin was inevitable , had not the abilities of their emperor prepared a seasonable relief . 
The favorable instant was improved by the activity of Claudius . 
He revived the courage of his troops , restored their ranks , and pressed the barbarians on every side . 
Fifty thousand men are reported to have been slain in the battle of Naissus . 
Several large bodies of barbarians , covering their retreat with a movable fortification of wagons , retired , or rather escaped , from the field of slaughter . 
We may presume that some insurmountable difficulty , the fatigue , perhaps , or the disobedience , of the conquerors , prevented Claudius from completing in one day the destruction of the Goths . 
The immense booty , the fruit of so many victories , consisted for the greater part of cattle and slaves . 
The loss of their fleet , which was either taken or sunk , had intercepted the retreat of the Goths . 
During the course of a rigorous winter in which they were besieged by the emperor's troops , famine and pestilence , desertion and the sword , continually diminished the imprisoned multitude . 
On the return of spring , nothing appeared in arms except a hardy and desperate band , the remnant of that mighty host which had embarked at the mouth of the Niester . 
The pestilence which swept away such numbers of the barbarians , at length proved fatal to their conqueror . 
After a short but glorious reign of two years , Claudius expired at Sirmium , amidst the tears and acclamations of his subjects . 
Claudius , before his death , invested him with the purple but this singular fact is rather contradicted than confirmed by other writers . 
See the Life of Claudius by Pollio , and the Orations of Mamertinus , Eumenius , and Julian . 
See likewise the Caesars of Julian p . 
In Julian it was not adulation , but superstition and vanity . 
allows him virtues , and says , that , like Pertinax , he was killed by the licentious soldiers . 
According to Dexippus , he died of a disease . 
We shall only observe , that the father of Aurelian was a peasant of the territory of Sirmium , who occupied a small farm , the property of Aurelius , a rich senator . 
In every station he distinguished himself by matchless valor , rigid discipline , and successful conduct . 
affirms that in one day he killed with his own hand forty eight Sarmatians , and in several subsequent engagements nine hundred and fifty . 
This heroic valor was admired by the soldiers , and celebrated in their rude songs , the burden of which was , mille , mile , mille , occidit . 
describes the ceremony of the adoption , as it was performed at Byzantium , in the presence of the emperor and his great officers . 
The reign of Aurelian lasted only four years and about nine months but every instant of that short period was filled by some memorable achievement . 
It was the rigid attention of Aurelian , even to the minutest articles of discipline , which bestowed such uninterrupted success on his arms . 
Gaming , drinking , and the arts of divination , were severely prohibited . 
The public allowance , continues the emperor , is sufficient for their support their wealth should be collected from the spoils of the enemy , not from the tears of the provincials . 
A single instance will serve to display the rigor , and even cruelty , of Aurelian . 
One of the soldiers had seduced the wife of his host . 
The guilty wretch was fastened to two trees forcibly drawn towards each other , and his limbs were torn asunder by their sudden separation . 
A few such examples impressed a salutary consternation . 
The punishments of Aurelian were terrible but he had seldom occasion to punish more than once the same offence . 
His own conduct gave a sanction to his laws , and the seditious legions dreaded a chief who had learned to obey , and who was worthy to command . 
This laconic epistle is truly the work of a soldier it abounds with military phrases and words , some of which cannot be understood without difficulty . 
Ferramenta samiata is well explained by Salmasius . 
The former of the words means all weapons of offence , and is contrasted with Arma , defensive armor The latter signifies keen and well sharpened . 
Chapter XI Reign Of Claudius , Defeat Of The Goths . 
The death of Claudius had revived the fainting spirit of the Goths . 
Their united numbers were at length encountered by Aurelian , and the bloody and doubtful conflict ended only with the approach of night . 
Exhausted by so many calamities , which they had mutually endured and inflicted during a twenty years' war , the Goths and the Romans consented to a lasting and beneficial treaty . 
It was earnestly solicited by the barbarians , and cheerfully ratified by the legions , to whose suffrage the prudence of Aurelian referred the decision of that important question . 
The five hundred stragglers were all slain . 
relates the whole transaction under the name of Vandals . 
Aurelian married one of the Gothic ladies to his general Bonosus , who was able to drink with the Goths and discover their secrets . 
But the most important condition of peace was understood rather than expressed in the treaty . 
Aurelian withdrew the Roman forces from Dacia , and tacitly relinquished that great province to the Goths and Vandals . 
His manly judgment convinced him of the solid advantages , and taught him to despise the seeming disgrace , of thus contracting the frontiers of the monarchy . 
The Dacian subjects , removed from those distant possessions which they were unable to cultivate or defend , added strength and populousness to the southern side of the Danube . 
The old country of that name detained , however , a considerable number of its inhabitants , who dreaded exile more than a Gothic master . 
A sense of interest attached these more settled barbarians to the alliance of Rome , and a permanent interest very frequently ripens into sincere and useful friendship . 
de Mortibus Persecutorum , c . 
The Walachians still preserve many traces of the Latin language and have boasted , in every age , of their Roman descent . 
They are surrounded by , but not mixed with , the barbarians . 
See a Memoir of M. d'Anville on ancient Dacia , in the Academy of Inscriptions , tom . 
The connection between the Getae and the Goths is still in my opinion incorrectly maintained by some learned writers M. See the first chapter of Jornandes . 
which fell into the Teiss . 
Forty thousand horse appeared in the field , and the numbers of the infantry doubled those of the cavalry . 
Vopiscus in Aurelian in Hist . 
Cantoclarus , with his usual accuracy , chooses to translate three hundred thousand his version is equally repugnant to sense and to grammar . 
We may remark , as an instance of bad taste , that Dexippus applies to the light infantry of the Alemanni the technical terms proper only to the Grecian phalanx . 
In Dexippus , we at present read Rhodanus M. de Valois very judiciously alters the word to Eridanus . 
The emperor was almost at the same time informed of the irruption , and of the retreat , of the barbarians . 
Aurelian indulged the fatal security of the barbarians , and permitted about half their forces to pass the river without disturbance and without precaution . 
Their situation and astonishment gave him an easy victory his skilful conduct improved the advantage . 
The dismayed barbarians , on whatsoever side they cast their eyes , beheld , with despair , a wasted country , a deep and rapid stream , a victorious and implacable enemy . 
Reduced to this distressed condition , the Alemanni no longer disdained to sue for peace . 
Aurelian received their ambassadors at the head of his camp , and with every circumstance of martial pomp that could display the greatness and discipline of Rome . 
The legions stood to their arms in well ordered ranks and awful silence . 
The principal commanders , distinguished by the ensigns of their rank , appeared on horseback on either side of the Imperial throne . 
When Aurelian assumed his seat , his manly grace and majestic figure taught the barbarians to revere the person as well as the purple of their conqueror . 
The ambassadors fell prostrate on the ground in silence . 
They were commanded to rise , and permitted to speak . 
The answer of the emperor was stern and imperious . 
Aurelian had resigned a distant province to the Goths but it was dangerous to trust or to pardon these perfidious barbarians , whose formidable power kept Italy itself in perpetual alarms . 
Dexippus gives them a subtle and prolix oration , worthy of a Grecian sophist . 
Immediately after this conference , it should seem that some unexpected emergency required the emperor's presence in Pannonia . 
He devolved on his lieutenants the care of finishing the destruction of the Alemanni , either by the sword , or by the surer operation of famine . 
But an active despair has often triumphed over the indolent assurance of success . 
and of all the Praetorian guards who had served in the wars on the Danube . 
Notwithstanding this desultory war , three considerable battles are mentioned , in which the principal force of both armies was obstinately engaged . 
The second battle was fought near Fano in Umbria on the spot which , five hundred years before , had been fatal to the brother of Hannibal . 
Thus far the successful Germans had advanced along the Aemilian and Flaminian way , with a design of sacking the defenceless mistress of the world . 
But Aurelian , who , watchful for the safety of Rome , still hung on their rear , found in this place the decisive moment of giving them a total and irretrievable defeat . 
The flying remnant of their host was exterminated in a third and last battle near Pavia and Italy was delivered from the inroads of the Alemanni . 
The little river , or rather torrent , of , Metaurus , near Fano , has been immortalized , by finding such an historian as Livy , and such a poet as Horace . 
It is recorded by an inscription found at Pesaro . 
Fear has been the original parent of superstition , and every new calamity urges trembling mortals to deprecate the wrath of their invisible enemies . 
Notwithstanding this liberal offer , it does not appear , that any human victims expiated with their blood the sins of the Roman people . 
One should imagine , he said , that you were assembled in a Christian church , not in the temple of all the gods . 
, , gives a long account of these ceremonies from the Registers of the senate . 
The seven hills of Rome had been surrounded , by the successors of Romulus , with an ancient wall of more than thirteen miles . 
The vast enclosure may seem disproportioned to the strength and numbers of the infant state . 
But it was necessary to secure an ample extent of pasture and arable land , against the frequent and sudden incursions of the tribes of Latium , the perpetual enemies of the republic . 
It was a great but a melancholy labor , since the defence of the capital betrayed the decline of the monarchy . 
Of the seven hills , the Capitoline and Palatine only , with the adjacent valleys , were the primitive habitations of the Roman people . 
But this subject would require a dissertation . 
Exspatiantia tecta multas addidere urbes , is the expression of Pliny . 
Both Lipsius and Isaac Vossius have eagerly embraced this measure . 
See Nardini , Roman Antica , l . 
Note But compare Gibbon , ch . 
For Aurelian's walls , see Vopiscus in Hist . 
Victor in Aurelian Victor Junior in Aurelian . 
To chastise domestic tyrants , and to reunite the dismembered parts of the empire , was a task reserved for the second of those warlike emperors . 
Though he was acknowledged by the senate and people , the frontiers of Italy , Africa , Illyricum , and Thrace , confined the limits of his reign . 
A rapid succession of monarchs had arisen and fallen in the provinces of Gaul . 
The rigid virtues of Posthumus served only to hasten his destruction . 
The death of Victorinus , his friend and associate , was occasioned by a less worthy cause . 
He was slain at Cologne , by a conspiracy of jealous husbands , whose revenge would have appeared more justifiable , had they spared the innocence of his son . 
The arts and treasures of Victoria enabled her successively to place Marius and Tetricus on the throne , and to reign with a manly vigor under the name of those dependent emperors . 
His competitor was Lollianus , or Aelianus , if , indeed , these names mean the same person . 
Sed omnia haec libido et cupiditas voluptatis mulierriae sic perdidit , ut nemo audeat virtutes ejus in literas mittere quem constat omnium judicio meruisse puniri . 
He ravished the wife of Attitianus , an actuary , or army agent , Hist . 
Pollio assigns her an article among the thirty tyrants . 
He reigned four or five years over Gaul , Spain , and Britain , the slave and sovereign of a licentious army , whom he dreaded , and by whom he was despised . 
The valor and fortune of Aurelian at length opened the prospect of a deliverance . 
He ventured to disclose his melancholy situation , and conjured the emperor to hasten to the relief of his unhappy rival . 
The two Victors , in the lives of Gallienus and Aurelian . 
place the fall of Tetricus before that of Zenobia . 
does not wish , and Tillemont does not dare to follow them . 
I have been fairer than the one , and bolder than the other . 
Eumenius mentions Batavicoe some critics , without any reason , would fain alter the word to Bagandicoe . 
As early as the reign of Claudius , the city of Autun , alone and unassisted , had ventured to declare against the legions of Gaul . 
After a siege of seven months , they stormed and plundered that unfortunate city , already wasted by famine . 
Lyons , on the contrary , had resisted with obstinate disaffection the arms of Aurelian . 
We read of the punishment of Lyons , but there is not any mention of the rewards of Autun . 
Such , indeed , is the policy of civil war severely to remember injuries , and to forget the most important services . 
Revenge is profitable , gratitude is expensive . 
Autun was not restored till the reign of Diocletian . 
See Eumenius de restaurandis scholis . 
Aurelian had no sooner secured the person and provinces of Tetricus , than he turned his arms against Zenobia , the celebrated queen of Palmyra and the East . 
Modern Europe has produced several illustrious women who have sustained with glory the weight of empire nor is our own age destitute of such distinguished characters . 
She claimed her descent from the Macedonian kings of Egypt , equalled in beauty her ancestor Cleopatra , and far surpassed that princess in chastity and valor . 
Zenobia was esteemed the most lovely as well as the most heroic of her sex . 
Her teeth were of a pearly whiteness , and her large black eyes sparkled with uncommon fire , tempered by the most attractive sweetness . 
Her voice was strong and harmonious . 
Her manly understanding was strengthened and adorned by study . 
She was not ignorant of the Latin tongue , but possessed in equal perfection the Greek , the Syriac , and the Egyptian languages . 
She had drawn up for her own use an epitome of oriental history , and familiarly compared the beauties of Homer and Plato under the tuition of the sublime Longinus . 
Almost everything that is said of the manners of Odenathus and Zenobia is taken from their lives in the Augustan History , by Trebeljus Pollio see p . 
According to some Christian writers , Zenobia was a Jewess . 
M. She never admitted her husband's embraces but for the sake of posterity . 
If her hopes were baffled , in the ensuing month she reiterated the experiment . 
This accomplished woman gave her hand to Odenathus , ! who , from a private station , raised himself to the dominion of the East . 
She soon became the friend and companion of a hero . 
The success of Odenathus was in a great measure ascribed to her incomparable prudence and fortitude . 
Their splendid victories over the Great King , whom they twice pursued as far as the gates of Ctesiphon , laid the foundations of their united fame and power . 
The armies which they commanded , and the provinces which they had saved , acknowledged not any other sovereigns than their invincible chiefs . 
The senate and people of Rome revered a stranger who had avenged their captive emperor , and even the insensible son of Valerian accepted Odenathus for his legitimate colleague . 
! According to Zosimus , Odenathus was of a noble family in Palmyra and according to Procopius , he was prince of the Saracens , who inhabit the ranks of the Euphrates . 
G. Chapter XI Reign Of Claudius , Defeat Of The Goths . 
After a successful expedition against the Gothic plunderers of Asia , the Palmyrenian prince returned to the city of Emesa in Syria . 
Invincible in war , he was there cut off by domestic treason , and his favorite amusement of hunting was the cause , or at least the occasion , of his death . 
His nephew Maeonius presumed to dart his javelin before that of his uncle and though admonished of his error , repeated the same insolence . 
The offence was soon forgot , but the punishment was remembered and Maeonius , with a few daring associates , assassinated his uncle in the midst of a great entertainment . 
Herod , the son of Odenathus , though not of Zenobia , a young man of a soft and effeminate temper , was killed with his father . 
But Maeonius obtained only the pleasure of revenge by this bloody deed . 
He had scarcely time to assume the title of Augustus , before he was sacrificed by Zenobia to the memory of her husband . 
The last is clear and probable , the others confused and inconsistent . 
The text of Syncellus , if not corrupt , is absolute nonsense . 
Odenathus and Zenobia often sent him , from the spoils of the enemy , presents of gems and toys , which he received with infinite delight . 
Some very unjust suspicions have been cast on Zenobia , as if she was accessory to her husband's death . 
With the assistance of his most faithful friends , she immediately filled the vacant throne , and governed with manly counsels Palmyra , Syria , and the East , above five years . 
Instead of the little passions which so frequently perplex a female reign , the steady administration of Zenobia was guided by the most judicious maxims of policy . 
If it was expedient to pardon , she could calm her resentment if it was necessary to punish , she could impose silence on the voice of pity . 
Her strict economy was accused of avarice yet on every proper occasion she appeared magnificent and liberal . 
The neighboring states of Arabia , Armenia , and Persia , dreaded her enmity , and solicited her alliance . 
To the dominions of Odenathus , which extended from the Euphrates to the frontiers of Bithynia , his widow added the inheritance of her ancestors , the populous and fertile kingdom of Egypt . 
The emperor Claudius acknowledged her merit , and was content , that , while he pursued the Gothic war , she should assert the dignity of the empire in the East . 
The conduct , however , of Zenobia , was attended with some ambiguity not is it unlikely that she had conceived the design of erecting an independent and hostile monarchy . 
She bestowed on her three sons a Latin education , and often showed them to the troops adorned with the Imperial purple . 
For herself she reserved the diadem , with the splendid but doubtful title of Queen of the East . 
, Aurelian's testimony to her merit and for the conquest of Egypt , Zosimus , l . 
Claudius , during all his reign , is represented as emperor on the medals of Alexandria , which are very numerous . 
If Zenobia possessed any power in Egypt , it could only have been at the beginning of the reign of Aurelian . 
The same circumstance throws great improbability on her conquests in Galatia . 
Perhaps Zenobia administered Egypt in the name of Claudius , and emboldened by the death of that prince , subjected it to her own power . 
G. Timolaus , Herennianus , and Vaballathus . 
It is supposed that the two former were already dead before the war . 
On the last , Aurelian bestowed a small province of Armenia , with the title of King several of his medals are still extant . 
Advancing at the head of his legions , he accepted the submission of Ancyra , and was admitted into Tyana , after an obstinate siege , by the help of a perfidious citizen . 
The generous though fierce temper of Aurelian abandoned the traitor to the rage of the soldiers a superstitious reverence induced him to treat with lenity the countrymen of Apollonius the philosopher . 
gives us an authentic letter and a doubtful vision , of Aurelian . 
Apollonius of Tyana was born about the same time as Jesus Christ . 
is related in so fabulous a manner by his disciples , that we are at a loss to discover whether he was a sage , an impostor , or a fanatic . 
Zenobia would have ill deserved her reputation , had she indolently permitted the emperor of the West to approach within a hundred miles of her capital . 
The numerous forces of Zenobia consisted for the most part of light archers , and of heavy cavalry clothed in complete steel . 
The Moorish and Illyrian horse of Aurelian were unable to sustain the ponderous charge of their antagonists . 
Aurelian had chosen these veteran troops , who were usually stationed on the Upper Danube , and whose valor had been severely tried in the Alemannic war . 
After the defeat of Emesa , Zenobia found it impossible to collect a third army . 
Palmyra was the last resource of the widow of Odenathus . 
At a place called Immae . 
Eutropius , Sextus Rufus , and Jerome , mention only this first battle . 
His account of the two battles is clear and circumstantial . 
Amid the barren deserts of Arabia , a few cultivated spots rise like islands out of the sandy ocean . 
The air was pure , and the soil , watered by some invaluable springs , was capable of producing fruits as well as corn . 
Note Talmor , or Palmyra , was probably at a very early period the connecting link between the commerce of Tyre and Babylon . 
Heeren , Ideen , v . 
Tadmor was probably built by Solomon as a commercial station . 
M. Some English travellers from Aleppo discovered the ruins of Palmyra about the end of the last century . 
Our curiosity has since been gratified in a more splendid manner by Messieurs Wood and Dawkins . 
For the history of Palmyra , we may consult the masterly dissertation of Dr . 
Halley in the Philosophical Transactions Lowthorp's Abridgment , vol . 
The Roman people , says Aurelian , in an original letter , speak with contempt of the war which I am waging against a woman . 
They are ignorant both of the character and of the power of Zenobia . 
It is impossible to enumerate her warlike preparations , of stones , of arrows , and of every species of missile weapons . 
Every part of the walls is provided with two or three balistoe and artificial fires are thrown from her military engines . 
The fear of punishment has armed her with a desperate courage . 
Yet still I trust in the protecting deities of Rome , who have hitherto been favorable to all my undertakings . 
His proposals were obstinately rejected , and the refusal was accompanied with insult . 
But fortune , and the perseverance of Aurelian , overcame every obstacle . 
It was then that Zenobia resolved to fly . 
Her capital soon afterwards surrendered , and was treated with unexpected lenity . 
From a very doubtful chronology I have endeavored to extract the most probable date . 
The Arabs affirm , that he will run over as much ground in one day as their fleetest horses can perform in eight or ten . 
, and Shaw's Travels p . 
Because I disdained to consider as Roman emperors an Aureolus or a Gallienus . 
You alone I acknowledge as my conqueror and my sovereign . 
But as female fortitude is commonly artificial , so it is seldom steady or consistent . 
Genius and learning were incapable of moving a fierce unlettered soldier , but they had served to elevate and harmonize the soul of Longinus . 
Without uttering a complaint , he calmly followed the executioner , pitying his unhappy mistress , and bestowing comfort on his afflicted friends . 
Without a moment's deliberation , he once more turned his face towards Syria . 
Antioch was alarmed by his rapid approach , and the helpless city of Palmyra felt the irresistible weight of his resentment . 
But it is easier to destroy than to restore . 
The seat of commerce , of arts , and of Zenobia , gradually sunk into an obscure town , a trifling fortress , and at length a miserable village . 
The present citizens of Palmyra , consisting of thirty or forty families , have erected their mud cottages within the spacious court of a magnificent temple . 
Firmus , the friend and ally , as he proudly styled himself , of Odenathus and Zenobia , was no more than a wealthy merchant of Egypt . 
Such troops were a feeble defence against the approach of Aurelian and it seems almost unnecessary to relate , that Firmus was routed , taken , tortured , and put to death . 
Aurelian might now congratulate the senate , the people , and himself , that in little more than three years , he had restored universal peace and order to the Roman world . 
As an instance of luxury , it is observed , that he had glass windows . 
He was remarkable for his strength and appetite , his courage and dexterity . 
From the letter of Aurelian , we may justly infer , that Firmus was the last of the rebels , and consequently that Tetricus was already suppressed . 
Since the foundation of Rome , no general had more nobly deserved a triumph than Aurelian nor was a triumph ever celebrated with superior pride and magnificence . 
They were followed by sixteen hundred gladiators , devoted to the cruel amusement of the amphitheatre . 
Each people was distinguished by its peculiar inscription , and the title of Amazons was bestowed on ten martial heroines of the Gothie nation who had been taken in arms . 
But every eye , disregarding the crowd of captives , was fixed on the emperor Tetricus and the queen of the East . 
The former , as well as his son , whom he had created Augustus , was dressed in Gallic trousers , a saffron tunic , and a robe of purple . 
The beauteous figure of Zenobia was confined by fetters of gold a slave supported the gold chain which encircled her neck , and she almost fainted under the intolerable weight of jewels . 
She preceded on foot the magnificent chariot , in which she once hoped to enter the gates of Rome . 
It was followed by two other chariots , still more sumptuous , of Odenathus and of the Persian monarch . 
was drawn , on this memorable occasion , either by four stags or by four elephants . 
The most illustrious of the senate , the people , and the army closed the solemn procession . 
See the triumph of Aurelian , described by Vopiscus . 
He relates the particulars with his usual minuteness and , on this occasion , they happen to be interesting . 
Among barbarous nations , women have often combated by the side of their husbands . 
But it is almost impossible that a society of Amazons should ever have existed either in the old or new world . 
Note Klaproth's theory on the origin of such traditions is at least recommended by its ingenuity . 
Trans M. The use of braccoe , breeches , or trousers , was still considered in Italy as a Gallic and barbarian fashion . 
The Romans , however , had made great advances towards it . 
To encircle the legs and thighs with fascioe , or bands , was understood , in the time of Pompey and Horace , to be a proof of ill health or effeminacy . 
In the age of Trajan , the custom was confined to the rich and luxurious . 
It gradually was adopted by the meanest of the people . 
See a very curious note of Casaubon , ad Sueton . 
Nullos decet captiva triumphos , as applied to Rome , contains a very manifest allusion and censure . 
Princes who , without success , had defended their throne or freedom , were frequently strangled in prison , as soon as the triumphal pomp ascended the Capitol . 
These usurpers , whom their defeat had convicted of the crime of treason , were permitted to spend their lives in affluence and honorable repose . 
Tetricus and his son were reinstated in their rank and fortunes . 
They erected on the Caelian hill a magnificent palace , and as soon as it was finished , invited Aurelian to supper . 
On his entrance , he was agreeably surprised with a picture which represented their singular history . 
They were delineated offering to the emperor a civic crown and the sceptre of Gaul , and again receiving at his hands the ornaments of the senatorial dignity . 
The son long continued a respectable member of the senate nor was there any one of the Roman nobility more esteemed by Aurelian , as well as by his successors . 
Baronius supposes that Zenobius , bishop of Florence in the time of St . 
Ambrose , was of her family . 
But Pollio , in Hist . 
, says , that Tetricus was made corrector of all Italy . 
The festival was protracted by theatrical representations , the games of the circus , the hunting of wild beasts , combats of gladiators , and naval engagements . 
Liberal donatives were distributed to the army and people , and several institutions , agreeable or beneficial to the city , contributed to perpetuate the glory of Aurelian . 
He placed in it the images of Belus and of the Sun , which he had brought from Palmyra . 
but was most assuredly begun immediately on his accession . 
See , in the Augustan History , p . 
, the omens of his fortune . 
His devotion to the Sun appears in his letters , on his medals , and is mentioned in the Caesars of Julian . 
Commentaire de Spanheim , p . 
The arms of Aurelian had vanquished the foreign and domestic foes of the republic . 
Even his attempt to restore the integrity of the coin was opposed by a formidable insurrection . 
The emperor's vexation breaks out in one of his private letters . 
Surely , says he , the gods have decreed that my life should be a perpetual warfare . 
A sedition within the walls has just now given birth to a very serious civil war . 
The workmen of the mint , at the instigation of Felicissimus , a slave to whom I had intrusted an employment in the finances , have risen in rebellion . 
Aurelian calls these soldiers Hiberi Riporiences Castriani , and Dacisci . 
We might content ourselves with relating this extraordinary transaction , but we cannot dissemble how much in its present form it appears to us inconsistent and incredible . 
The debasement of the coin is indeed well suited to the administration of Gallienus nor is it unlikely that the instruments of the corruption might dread the inflexible justice of Aurelian . 
But the case is far otherwise in every operation which , by whatsoever expedients , restores the just value of money . 
However Aurelian might choose to disguise the real cause of the insurrection , his reformation of the coin could furnish only a faint pretence to a party already powerful and discontented . 
Rome , though deprived of freedom , was distracted by faction . 
It already raged before Aurelian's return from Egypt . 
See Vipiscus , who quotes an original letter . 
Whatever was the cause or the object of this rebellion , imputed with so little probability to the workmen of the mint , Aurelian used his victory with unrelenting rigor . 
He was naturally of a severe disposition . 
A peasant and a soldier , his nerves yielded not easily to the impressions of sympathy , and he could sustain without emotion the sight of tortures and death . 
The unprovoked rebellion with which the Romans rewarded his services , exasperated his haughty spirit . 
The noblest families of the capital were involved in the guilt or suspicion of this dark conspiracy . 
A nasty spirit of revenge urged the bloody prosecution , and it proved fatal to one of the nephews of the emperor . 
were fatigued , the prisons were crowded , and the unhappy senate lamented the death or absence of its most illustrious members . 
Nor was the pride of Aurelian less offensive to that assembly than his cruelty . 
mentions only three senators , and placed their death before the eastern war . 
Nulla catenati feralis pompa senatus Carnificum lassabit opus nec carcere pleno Infelix raros numerabit curia Patres . 
According to the younger Victor , he sometimes wore the diadem , Deus and Dominus appear on his medals . 
Conscious of the character in which nature and experience had enabled him to excel , he again took the field a few months after his triumph . 
At the head of an army , less formidable by its numbers than by its discipline and valor , the emperor advanced as far as the Straits which divide Europe from Asia . 
He there experienced that the most absolute power is a weak defence against the effects of despair . 
He had threatened one of his secretaries who was accused of extortion and it was known that he seldom threatened in vain . 
The last hope which remained for the criminal , was to involve some of the principal officers of the army in his danger , or at least in his fears . 
Artfully counterfeiting his master's hand , he showed them , in a long and bloody list , their own names devoted to death . 
Without suspecting or examining the fraud , they resolved to secure their lives by the murder of the emperor . 
He died regretted by the army , detested by the senate , but universally acknowledged as a warlike and fortunate prince , the useful , though severe reformer of a degenerate state . 
It was the observation of Dioclatian . 
Chapter XII Reigns Of Tacitus , Probus , Carus And His Sons . 
Part I. Conduct Of The Army And Senate After The Death Of Aurelian . 
Reigns Of Tacitus , Probus , Carus , And His Sons . 
Such was the unhappy condition of the Roman emperors , that , whatever might be their conduct , their fate was commonly the same . 
The death of Aurelian , however , is remarkable by its extraordinary consequences . 
The legions admired , lamented , and revenged their victorious chief . 
The artifice of his perfidious secretary was discovered and punished . 
The crime of one man , and the error of many , have deprived us of the late emperor Aurelian . 
Such honors as fear and perhaps esteem could extort , they liberally poured forth on the memory of their deceased sovereign . 
Yet , notwithstanding this flattering appeal , the most prudent of the assembly declined exposing their safety and dignity to the caprice of an armed multitude . 
Motives like these dictated a decree , by which the election of a new emperor was referred to the suffrage of the military order . 
Aurelius Victor mentions a formal deputation from the troops to the senate . 
The contention that ensued is one of the best attested , but most improbable events in the history of mankind . 
The troops , as if satiated with the exercise of power , again conjured the senate to invest one of its own body with the Imperial purple . 
The senate still persisted in its refusal the army in its request . 
Zosimus and Zonaras appear as ignorant of this transaction as they were in general of the Roman constitution . 
The interregnum could not be more than seven months Aurelian was assassinated in the middle of March , the year of Rome . 
Tacitus was elected the th September in the same year . 
Yet , notwithstanding all these temptations , the discipline and memory of Aurelian still restrained the seditious temper of the troops , as well as the fatal ambition of their leaders . 
The flower of the legions maintained their stations on the banks of the Bosphorus , and the Imperial standard awed the less powerful camps of Rome and of the provinces . 
Plutarch in Numa , p . 
Intelligence , he said , was already received , that the Germans had passed the Rhine , and occupied some of the strongest and most opulent cities of Gaul . 
The consul , then addressing himself to Tacitus , the first of the senators , required his opinion on the important subject of a proper candidate for the vacant throne . 
calls him primae sententia consularis and soon afterwards Princeps senatus . 
It is natural to suppose , that the monarchs of Rome , disdaining that humble title , resigned it to the most ancient of the senators . 
If we can prefer personal merit to accidental greatness , we shall esteem the birth of Tacitus more truly noble than that of kings . 
He claimed his descent from the philosophic historian , whose writings will instruct the last generations of mankind . 
The senator Tacitus was then seventy five years of age . 
The long period of his innocent life was adorned with wealth and honors . 
He had twice been invested with the consular dignity , and enjoyed with elegance and sobriety his ample patrimony of between two and three millions sterling . 
From the assiduous study of his immortal ancestor , he derived the knowledge of the Roman constitution , and of human nature . 
The voice of the people had already named Tacitus as the citizen the most worthy of empire . 
The ungrateful rumor reached his ears , and induced him to seek the retirement of one of his villas in Campania . 
The only objection to this genealogy is , that the historian was named Cornelius , the emperor , Claudius . 
But under the lower empire , surnames were extremely various and uncertain . 
The Alexandrian Chronicle , by an obvious mistake , transfers that age to Aurelian . 
In the year , he was ordinary consul . 
But he must have been Suffectus many years before , and most probably under Valerian . 
This sum , according to the old standard , was equivalent to eight hundred and forty thousand Roman pounds of silver , each of the value of three pounds sterling . 
But in the age of Tacitus , the coin had lost much of its weight and purity . 
After his accession , he gave orders that ten copies of the historian should be annually transcribed and placed in the public libraries . 
The Roman libraries have long since perished , and the most valuable part of Tacitus was preserved in a single Ms. , and discovered in a monastery of Westphalia . 
See Bayle , Dictionnaire , Art . 
Tacite , and Lipsius ad Annal . 
He arose to speak , when from every quarter of the house , he was saluted with the names of Augustus and emperor . 
Tacitus Augustus , the gods preserve thee ! we choose thee for our sovereign to thy care we intrust the republic and the world . 
Accept the empire from the authority of the senate . 
It is due to thy rank , to thy conduct , to thy manners . 
was encountered by the affectionate obstinacy of the senate . 
These pressing though tumultuary instances were seconded by a more regular oration of Metius Falconius , the next on the consular bench to Tacitus himself . 
The speech of Falconius was enforced by a general acclamation . 
The emperor elect submitted to the authority of his country , and received the voluntary homage of his equals . 
The judgment of the senate was confirmed by the consent of the Roman people , and of the Praetorian guards . 
Tacitus addressed the Praetorians by the appellation of sanctissimi milites , and the people by that of sacratissim . 
The administration of Tacitus was not unworthy of his life and principles . 
A grateful servant of the senate , he considered that national council as the author , and himself as the subject , of the laws . 
It may not be useless to recapitulate some of the most important prerogatives which the senate appeared to have regained by the election of Tacitus . 
To invest one of their body , under the title of emperor , with the general command of the armies , and the government of the frontier provinces . 
To determine the list , or , as it was then styled , the College of Consuls . 
They were twelve in number , who , in successive pairs , each , during the space of two months , filled the year , and represented the dignity of that ancient office . 
The senate , exclaimed Tacitus , with the honest transport of a patriot , understand the character of a prince whom they have chosen . 
To appoint the proconsuls and presidents of the provinces , and to confer on all the magistrates their civil jurisdiction . 
To receive appeals through the intermediate office of the praefect of the city from all the tribunals of the empire . 
To give force and validity , by their decrees , to such as they should approve of the emperor's edicts . 
In his manumissions he never exceeded the number of a hundred , as limited by the Caninian law , which was enacted under Augustus , and at length repealed by Justinian . 
See Casaubon ad locum Vopisci . 
See the lives of Tacitus , Florianus , and Probus , in the Augustan History we may be well assured , that whatever the soldier gave the senator had already given . 
The passage is perfectly clear , both Casaubon and Salmasius wish to correct it . 
Two of these epistles are still extant . 
We likewise possess two very singular fragments of the private correspondence of the senators on this occasion . 
They discover the most excessive joy , and the most unbounded hopes . 
Cast away your indolence , it is thus that one of the senators addresses his friend , emerge from your retirements of Baiae and Puteoli . 
Give yourself to the city , to the senate . 
Rome flourishes , the whole republic flourishes . 
Thanks to the Roman army , to an army truly Roman at length we have recovered our just authority , the end of all our desires . 
We hear appeals , we appoint proconsuls , we create emperors perhaps too we may restrain them to the wise a word is sufficient . 
These lofty expectations were , however , soon disappointed nor , indeed , was it possible that the armies and the provinces should long obey the luxurious and unwarlike nobles of Rome . 
On the slightest touch , the unsupported fabric of their pride and power fell to the ground . 
The expiring senate displayed a sudden lustre , blazed for a moment and was extinguished forever . 
The senators celebrated the happy restoration with hecatombs and public rejoicings . 
All that had yet passed at Rome was no more than a theatrical representation , unless it was ratified by the more substantial power of the legions . 
As soon as the praefect was silent , the emperor addressed himself to the soldiers with eloquence and propriety . 
He gratified their avarice by a liberal distribution of treasure , under the names of pay and donative . 
Those barbarians , allured by presents and subsidies , had promised to invade Persia with a numerous body of light cavalry . 
The legions , who from the opposite shores of the Bosphorus could almost distinguish the flames of the cities and villages , impatiently urged their general to lead them against the invaders . 
The conduct of Tacitus was suitable to his age and station . 
He convinced the barbarians of the faith , as well as the power , of the empire . 
Against the remainder , who refused peace , the Roman emperor waged , in person , a successful war . 
Seconded by an army of brave and experienced veterans , in a few weeks he delivered the provinces of Asia from the terror of the Scythian invasion . 
On the Alani , see ch . 
convince me , that these Scythian invaders of Pontus were Alani . 
Florianus pursued them as far as the Cimmerian Bosphorus . 
But he had scarcely time for so long and difficult an expedition . 
But the glory and life of Tacitus were of short duration . 
Transported , in the depth of winter , from the soft retirement of Campania to the foot of Mount Caucasus , he sunk under the unaccustomed hardships of a military life . 
The fatigues of the body were aggravated by the cares of the mind . 
For a while , the angry and selfish passions of the soldiers had been suspended by the enthusiasm of public virtue . 
They soon broke out with redoubled violence , and raged in the camp , and even in the tent of the aged emperor . 
His mild and amiable character served only to inspire contempt , and he was incessantly tormented with factions which he could not assuage , and by demands which it was impossible to satisfy . 
It may be doubtful whether the soldiers imbrued their hands in the blood of this innocent prince . 
It is certain that their insolences was the cause of his death . 
He expired at Tyana in Cappadocia , after a reign of only six months and about twenty days . 
Eutropius and Aurelius Victor only say that he died Victor Junior adds , that it was of a fever . 
Zosimus and Zonaras affirm , that he was killed by the soldiers . 
Vopiscus mentions both accounts , and seems to hesitate . 
Yet surely these jarring opinions are easily reconciled . 
According to the two Victors , he reigned exactly two hundred days . 
The eyes of Tacitus were scarcely closed , before his brother Florianus showed himself unworthy to reign , by the hasty usurpation of the purple , without expecting the approbation of the senate . 
The discontent would have evaporated in idle murmurs , had not the general of the East , the heroic Probus , boldly declared himself the avenger of the senate . 
But the fortune and activity of Probus triumphed over every obstacle . 
The hardy veterans of his rival , accustomed to cold climates , sickened and consumed away in the sultry heats of Cilicia , where the summer proved remarkably unwholesome . 
would throw that period of history into inextricable confusion . 
The perpetual revolutions of the throne had so perfectly erased every notion of hereditary title , that the family of an unfortunate emperor was incapable of exciting the jealousy of his successors . 
The children of Tacitus and Florianus were permitted to descend into a private station , and to mingle with the general mass of the people . 
Their poverty indeed became an additional safeguard to their innocence . 
will not subsist a thousand years , to expose or justify the prediction . 
The peasants of Illyricum , who had already given Claudius and Aurelian to the sinking empire , had an equal right to glory in the elevation of Probus . 
Aurelian was indebted for the honest courage with which he often checked the cruelty of his master . 
For the private life of Probus , see Vopiscus in Hist . 
According to the Alexandrian chronicle , he was fifty at the time of his death . 
His acknowledge merit , and the success of his arms against Florianus , left him without an enemy or a competitor . 
Yet , if we may credit his own professions , very far from being desirous of the empire , he had accepted it with the most sincere reluctance . 
But it is no longer in my power , says Probus , in a private letter , to lay down a title so full of envy and of danger . 
I must continue to personate the character which the soldiers have imposed upon me . 
For you are the legal sovereigns of the world , and the power which you derive from your ancestors will descend to your posterity . 
The prudent soldiers have punished his rashness . 
To me they have offered the title of Augustus . 
But I submit to your clemency my pretensions and my merits . 
When this respectful epistle was read by the consul , the senators were unable to disguise their satisfaction , that Probus should condescend thus numbly to solicit a sceptre which he already possessed . 
They celebrated with the warmest gratitude his virtues , his exploits , and above all his moderation . 
The reign of Probus corresponded with this fair beginning . 
The senate was permitted to direct the civil administration of the empire . 
Their faithful general asserted the honor of the Roman arms , and often laid at their feet crowns of gold and barbaric trophies , the fruits of his numerous victories . 
Yet , whilst he gratified their vanity , he must secretly have despised their indolence and weakness . 
Though it was every moment in their power to repeal the disgraceful edict of Gallienus , the proud successors of the Scipios patiently acquiesced in their exclusion from all military employments . 
They soon experienced , that those who refuse the sword must renounce the sceptre . 
he promised to continue in his great office . 
The date of the letter is assuredly faulty . 
we may read Non August . 
It is odd that the senate should treat Probus less favorably than Marcus Antoninus . 
That prince had received , even before the death of Pius , Jus quintoe relationis . 
See the dutiful letter of Probus to the senate , after his German victories . 
Chapter XII Reigns Of Tacitus , Probus , Carus And His Sons . 
The strength of Aurelian had crushed on every side the enemies of Rome . 
After his death they seemed to revive with an increase of fury and of numbers . 
The dangerous frontier of Rhaetia he so firmly secured , that he left it without the suspicion of an enemy . 
He broke the wandering power of the Sarmatian tribes , and by the terror of his arms compelled those barbarians to relinquish their spoil . 
The Gothic nation courted the alliance of so warlike an emperor . 
The remaining actions he intrusted to the care of his lieutenants , the judicious choice of whom forms no inconsiderable part of his glory . 
The date and duration of the reign of Probus are very correctly ascertained by Cardinal Noris in his learned work , De Epochis Syro Macedonum , p . 
A passage of Eusebius connects the second year of Probus with the aeras of several of the Syrian cities . 
tells us a very long and trifling story of Lycius , the Isaurian robber . 
But it seems incredible that the defeat of the savages of Aethiopia could affect the Persian monarch . 
whose actions have not reached knowledge . 
Among the various multitude of those fierce invaders we may distinguish , with some degree of clearness , three great armies , or rather nations , successively vanquished by the valor of Probus . 
He vanquished the Burgundians , a considerable people of the Vandalic race . 
They had wandered in quest of booty from the banks of the Oder to those of the Seine . 
They esteemed themselves sufficiently fortunate to purchase , by the restitution of all their booty , the permission of an undisturbed retreat . 
They attempted to elude that article of the treaty . 
Their punishment was immediate and terrible . 
But of all the invaders of Gaul , the most formidable were the Lygians , a distant people , who reigned over a wide domain on the frontiers of Poland and Silesia . 
In the Lygian nation , the Arii held the first rank by their numbers and fierceness . 
study to improve by art and circumstances the innate terrors of their barbarism . 
Their shields are black , their bodies are painted black . 
They choose for the combat the darkest hour of the night . 
Their host advances , covered as it were with a funeral shade nor do they often find an enemy capable of sustaining so strange and infernal an aspect . 
Of all our senses , the eyes are the first vanquished in battle . 
Yet the arms and discipline of the Romans easily discomfited these horrid phantoms . 
The Lygii were defeated in a general engagement , and Semno , the most renowned of their chiefs , fell alive into the hands of Probus . 
That prudent emperor , unwilling to reduce a brave people to despair , granted them an honorable capitulation , and permitted them to return in safety to their native country . 
See the Caesars of Julian , and Hist . 
Gatterer presumes that this river was the Danube a passage in Zosimus appears to me rather to indicate the Rhine . 
, edit H. Etienne , . 
G. On the origin of the Burgundians may be consulted Malte Brun , Geogr vi . 
who observes that all the remains of the Burgundian language indicate that they spoke a Gothic dialect . 
But the latter supposes the punishment inflicted with the consent of their kings if so , it was partial , like the offence . 
Ptolemy places in their country the city of Calisia , probably Calish in Silesia . 
supposes that these have been erroneously identified with the Lygii of Tacitus . 
Perhaps one fertile source of mistakes has been , that the Romans have turned appellations into national names . 
We find among the Arii the worship of the two twin gods known in the Sclavian mythology . 
M. But compare Schafarik , Slawische Alterthumer , , p . 
Feralis umbra , is the expression of Tacitus it is surely a very bold one . 
Since the expedition of Maximin , the Roman generals had confined their ambition to a defensive war against the nations of Germany , who perpetually pressed on the frontiers of the empire . 
The more daring Probus pursued his Gallic victories , passed the Rhine , and displayed his invincible eagles on the banks of the Elbe and the Necker . 
He was fully convinced that nothing could reconcile the minds of the barbarians to peace , unless they experienced , in their own country , the calamities of war . 
Germany , exhausted by the ill success of the last emigration , was astonished by his presence . 
Nine of the most considerable princes repaired to his camp , and fell prostrate at his feet . 
Such a treaty was humbly received by the Germans , as it pleased the conqueror to dictate . 
He even entertained some thoughts of compelling the Germans to relinquish the exercise of arms , and to trust their differences to the justice , their safety to the power , of Rome . 
To accomplish these salutary ends , the constant residence of an Imperial governor , supported by a numerous army , was indispensably requisite . 
Probus therefore judged it more expedient to defer the execution of so great a design which was indeed rather of specious than solid utility . 
Vopiscus quotes a letter from the emperor to the senate , in which he mentions his design of reducing Germany into a province . 
Instead of reducing the warlike natives of Germany to the condition of subjects , Probus contented himself with the humble expedient of raising a bulwark against their inroads . 
The country which now forms the circle of Swabia had been left desert in the age of Augustus by the emigration of its ancient inhabitants . 
The fertility of the soil soon attracted a new colony from the adjacent provinces of Gaul . 
Crowds of adventurers , of a roving temper and of desperate fortunes , occupied the doubtful possession , and acknowledged , by the payment of tithes the majesty of the empire . 
To protect these new subjects , a line of frontier garrisons was gradually extended from the Rhine to the Danube . 
About the reign of Hadrian , when that mode of defence began to be practised , these garrisons were connected and covered by a strong intrenchment of trees and palisades . 
In the place of so rude a bulwark , the emperor Probus constructed a stone wall of a considerable height , and strengthened it by towers at convenient distances . 
But the experience of the world , from China to Britain , has exposed the vain attempt of fortifying any extensive tract of country . 
An active enemy , who can select and vary his points of attack , must , in the end , discover some feeble spot , on some unguarded moment . 
The fate of the wall which Probus erected may confirm the general observation . 
Within a few years after his death , it was overthrown by the Alemanni . 
Its scattered ruins , universally ascribed to the power of the Daemon , now serve only to excite the wonder of the Swabian peasant . 
Maroboduus led his Marcomanni into Bohemia Cluverius proves that it was from Swabia . 
These settlers , from the payment of tithes , were denominated Decunates . 
See notes de l'Abbe de la Bleterie a la Germanie de Tacite , p . 
from the Alsatia Illustrata of Schoepflin . 
See Recherches sur les Chinois et les Egyptiens , tom . 
Note De Pauw is well known to have been the author of this work , as of the Recherches sur les Americains before quoted . 
The judgment of M. Remusat on this writer is in a very different , I fear a juster tone . 
Quand au lieu de rechercher , d'examiner , d'etudier , on se borne , comme cet ecrivain , a juger a prononcer , a decider , sans connoitre ni l'histoire . 
Sur les l angues Tartares , p . 
Their aid was now become necessary . 
The feeble elegance of Italy and the internal provinces could no longer support the weight of arms . 
The hardy frontiers of the Rhine and Danube still produced minds and bodies equal to the labors of the camp but a perpetual series of wars had gradually diminished their numbers . 
Into Britain , and most probably into Cambridgeshire , he transported a considerable body of Vandals . 
The impossibility of an escape reconciled them to their situation , and in the subsequent troubles of that island , they approved themselves the most faithful servants of the state . 
Great numbers of Franks and Gepidae were settled on the banks of the Danube and the Rhine . 
A hundred thousand Bastarnae , expelled from their own country , cheerfully accepted an establishment in Thrace , and soon imbibed the manners and sentiments of Roman subjects . 
But the expectations of Probus were too often disappointed . 
The impatience and idleness of the barbarians could ill brook the slow labors of agriculture . 
He distributed about fifty or sixty barbarians to a Numerus , as it was then called , a corps with whose established number we are not exactly acquainted . 
Camden's Britannia , Introduction , p . 
but he speaks from a very doubtful conjecture . 
According to Vopiscus , another body of Vandals was less faithful . 
They were probably expelled by the Goths . 
Of all the barbarians who abandoned their new settlements , and disturbed the public tranquillity , a very small number returned to their own country . 
For a short season they might wander in arms through the empire but in the end they were surely destroyed by the power of a warlike emperor . 
The successful rashness of a party of Franks was attended , however , with such memorable consequences , that it ought not to be passed unnoticed . 
They had been established by Probus , on the sea coast of Pontus , with a view of strengthening the frontier against the inroads of the Alani . 
Notwithstanding the vigilance and activity of Probus , it was almost impossible that he could at once contain in obedience every part of his wide extended dominions . 
The barbarians , who broke their chains , had seized the favorable opportunity of a domestic war . 
When the emperor marched to the relief of Gaul , he devolved the command of the East on Saturninus . 
Alas ! he said , the republic has lost a useful servant , and the rashness of an hour has destroyed the services of many years . 
You know not , continued he , the misery of sovereign power a sword is perpetually suspended over our head . 
We dread our very guards , we distrust our companions . 
In thus exalting me to the throne , you have doomed me to a life of cares , and to an untimely fate . 
The only consolation which remains is , the assurance that I shall not fall alone . 
But as the former part of his prediction was verified by the victory , so the latter was disappointed by the clemency of Probus . 
That amiable prince attempted even to save the unhappy Saturninus from the fury of the soldiers . 
Saturninus might , perhaps , have embraced the generous offer , had he not been restrained by the obstinate distrust of his adherents . 
Their guilt was deeper , and their hopes more sanguine , than those of their experienced leader . 
than a Gaul , as Vopiscus calls him . 
The revolt of Saturninus was scarcely extinguished in the East , before new troubles were excited in the West , by the rebellion of Bonosus and Proculus , in Gaul . 
He used the victory with his accustomed moderation , and spared the fortune , as well as the lives of their innocent families . 
A very surprising instance is recorded of the prowess of Procufus . 
He had taken one hundred Sarmatian virgins . 
The rest of the story he must relate in his own language Ex his una necte decem inivi omnes tamen , quod in me erat , mulieres intra dies quindecim reddidi . 
Proculus , who was a native of Albengue , on the Genoese coast armed two thousand of his own slaves . 
His riches were great , but they were acquired by robbery . 
It was afterwards a saying of his family , sibi non placere esse vel principes vel latrones . 
The arms of Probus had now suppressed all the foreign and domestic enemies of the state . 
It was time that the emperor should revisit Rome , and celebrate his own glory and the general happiness . 
We cannot , on this occasion , forget the desperate courage of about fourscore gladiators , reserved , with near six hundred others , for the inhuman sports of the amphitheatre . 
After an obstinate resistance , they were overpowered and cut in pieces by the regular forces but they obtained at least an honorable death , and the satisfaction of a just revenge . 
The military discipline which reigned in the camps of Probus was less cruel than that of Aurelian , but it was equally rigid and exact . 
The latter had punished the irregularities of the soldiers with unrelenting severity , the former prevented them by employing the legions in constant and useful labors . 
When Probus commanded in Egypt , he executed many considerable works for the splendor and benefit of that rich country . 
An army thus employed constituted perhaps the most useful , as well as the bravest , portion of Roman subjects . 
But the policy of Hannibal , unnoticed by any more ancient writer , is irreconcilable with the history of his life . 
He left Africa when he was nine years old , returned to it when he was forty five , and immediately lost his army in the decisive battle of Zama . 
He revoked the prohibition of Domitian , and granted a general permission of planting vines to the Gauls , the Britons , and the Pannonians . 
The imprudence of Probus is said to have inflamed the discontent of his troops . 
The unguarded expression proved fatal to him . 
The emperor , conscious of his danger , took refuge in a lofty tower , constructed for the purpose of surveying the progress of the work . 
The tower was instantly forced , and a thousand swords were plunged at once into the bosom of the unfortunate Probus . 
The rage of the troops subsided as soon as it had been gratified . 
Julian bestows a severe , and indeed excessive , censure on the rigor of Probus , who , as he thinks , almost deserved his fate . 
He lavishes on this idle hope a large stock of very foolish eloquence . 
It seems to have been a movable tower , and cased with iron . 
Probus , et vere probus situs est Victor omnium gentium Barbararum victor etiam tyrannorum . 
When the legions had indulged their grief and repentance for the death of Probus , their unanimous consent declared Carus , his Praetorian praefect , the most deserving of the Imperial throne . 
Every circumstance that relates to this prince appears of a mixed and doubtful nature . 
When Carus assumed the purple , he was about sixty years of age , and his two sons , Carinus and Numerian had already attained the season of manhood . 
Yet all this may be conciliated . 
He was born at Narbonne in Illyricum , confounded by Eutropius with the more famous city of that name in Gaul . 
His father might be an African , and his mother a noble Roman . 
Carus himself was educated in the capital . 
Probus had requested of the senate an equestrian statue and a marble palace , at the public expense , as a just recompense of the singular merit of Carus . 
Julian excludes the emperor Carus and both his sons from the banquet of the Caesars . 
But the authority of that ignorant Greek is very slight . 
He ridiculously derives from Carus the city of Carrhae , and the province of Caria , the latter of which is mentioned by Homer . 
Two shepherds , avoiding the noontide heat , retire into the cave of Faunus . 
On a spreading beech they discover some recent characters . 
The rural deity had described , in prophetic verses , the felicity promised to the empire under the reign of so great a prince . 
Carus congratulated the senate , that one of their own order was made emperor . 
See the first eclogue of Calphurnius . 
The design of it is preferes by Fontenelle to that of Virgil's Pollio . 
There , encamping on the summit of a lofty mountain , he pointed out to his troops the opulence and luxury of the enemy whom they were about to invade . 
! His ambassadors entered the camp about sunset , at the time when the troops were satisfying their hunger with a frugal repast . 
The Persians expressed their desire of being introduced to the presence of the Roman emperor . 
They were at length conducted to a soldier , who was seated on the grass . 
A piece of stale bacon and a few hard peas composed his supper . 
A coarse woollen garment of purple was the only circumstance that announced his dignity . 
The conference was conducted with the same disregard of courtly elegance . 
The ministers of the Great King trembled and retired . 
Hormisdas , Varanes Baharam the First . 
We find one of his sayings in the Bibliotheque Orientale of M. d'Herbelot . 
The definition of humanity includes all other virtues . 
! The manner in which his life was saved by the Chief Pontiff from a conspiracy of his nobles , is as remarkable as his saying . 
all the nobles absented themselves from court . 
The king wandered through his palace alone . 
He saw no one all was silence around . 
He became alarmed and distressed . 
At last the Chief Pontiff appeared , and bowed his head in apparent misery , but spoke not a word . 
The king entreated him to declare what had happened . 
The virtuous man boldly related all that had passed , and conjured Bahram , in the name of his glorious ancestors , to change his conduct and save himself from destruction . 
The king was much moved , professed himself most penitent , and said he was resolved his future life should prove his sincerity . 
The monarch now perceived that only one opinion prevailed on his past conduct . 
He repeated therefore to his nobles all he had said to the Chief Pontiff , and his future reign was unstained by cruelty or oppression . 
The threats of Carus were not without effect . 
and carried his victorious arms beyond the Tigris . 
He had seized the favorable moment for an invasion . 
The Persian councils were distracted by domestic factions , and the greater part of their forces were detained on the frontiers of India . 
Rome and the East received with transports the news of such important advantages . 
But the reign of Carus was destined to expose the vanity of predictions . 
Carus , says he , our dearest emperor , was confined by sickness to his bed , when a furious tempest arose in the camp . 
But , as far as we have been able to investigate the truth , his death was the natural effect of his disorder . 
To the Persian victory of Carus I refer the dialogue of the Philopatris , which has so long been an object of dispute among the learned . 
But to explain and justify my opinion , would require a dissertation . 
has boldly assigned the Philopatris to the tenth century , and to the reign of Nicephorus Phocas . 
An opinion so decisively pronounced by Niebuhr and favorably received by Hase , the learned editor of Leo Diaconus , commands respectful consideration . 
But the whole tone of the work appears to me altogether inconsistent with any period in which philosophy did not stand , as it were , on some ground of equality with Christianity . 
The doctrine of the Trinity is sarcastically introduced rather as the strange doctrine of a new religion , than the established tenet of a faith universally prevalent . 
The only argument of any value is the historic one , from the allusion to the recent violation of many virgins in the Island of Crete . 
But neither is the language of Niebuhr quite accurate , nor his reference to the Acroases of Theodosius satisfactory . 
When , then , could this occurrence take place ? Why not in the devastation of the island by the Gothic pirates , during the reign of Claudius . 
Yet Eutropius , Festus , Rufus , the two Victors , Jerome , Sidonius Apollinaris , Syncellus , and Zonaras , all ascribe the death of Carus to lightning . 
Chapter XII Reigns Of Tacitus , Probus , Carus And His Sons . 
The vacancy of the throne was not productive of any disturbance . 
The ambition of the aspiring generals was checked by their natural fears , and young Numerian , with his absent brother Carinus , were unanimously acknowledged as Roman emperors . 
But the legions , however strong in numbers and discipline , were dismayed by the most abject superstition . 
Places or persons struck with lightning were considered by the ancients with pious horror , as singularly devoted to the wrath of Heaven . 
An oracle was remembered , which marked the River Tigris as the fatal boundary of the Roman arms . 
The feeble emperor was unable to subdue their obstinate prejudice , and the Persians wondered at the unexpected retreat of a victorious enemy . 
See Festus and his commentators on the word Scribonianum . 
Places struck by lightning were surrounded with a wall things were buried with mysterious ceremony . 
Aurelius Victor seems to believe the prediction , and to approve the retreat . 
He was soft , yet cruel devoted to pleasure , but destitute of taste and though exquisitely susceptible of vanity , indifferent to the public esteem . 
He beheld with inveterate hatred all those who might remember his former obscurity , or censure his present conduct . 
With the senators , Carinus affected a lofty and regal demeanor , frequently declaring , that he designed to distribute their estates among the populace of Rome . 
From the dregs of that populace he selected his favorites , and even his ministers . 
The palace , and even the Imperial table , were filled with singers , dancers , prostitutes , and all the various retinue of vice and folly . 
One of his doorkeepers he intrusted with the government of the city . 
In the room of the Praetorian praefect , whom he put to death , Carinus substituted one of the ministers of his looser pleasures . 
Another , who possessed the same , or even a more infamous , title to favor , was invested with the consulship . 
A confidential secretary , who had acquired uncommon skill in the art of forgery , delivered the indolent emperor , with his own consent from the irksome duty of signing his name . 
He was a contemporary , but a poet . 
This word , so humble in its origin , has , by a singular fortune , risen into the title of the first great office of state in the monarchies of Europe . 
See Casaubon and Salmasius , ad Hist . 
The reign of Diocletian indeed was so long and prosperous , that it must have been very unfavorable to the reputation of Carinus . 
But this vain prodigality , which the prudence of Diocletian might justly despise , was enjoyed with surprise and transport by the Roman people . 
He calls him Carus , but the sense is sufficiently obvious , and the words were often confounded . 
We may observe , that the spectacles of Probus were still recent , and that the poet is seconded by the historian . 
The spectacles of Carinus may therefore be best illustrated by the observation of some particulars , which history has condescended to relate concerning those of his predecessors . 
By the order of Probus , a great quantity of large trees , torn up by the roots , were transplanted into the midst of the circus . 
The tragedy of the succeeding day consisted in the massacre of a hundred lions , an equal number of lionesses , two hundred leopards , and three hundred bears . 
Twenty zebras displayed their elegant forms and variegated beauty to the eyes of the Roman people . 
The unoffending strength with which Nature has endowed the greater quadrupeds was admired in the rhinoceros , the hippopotamus of the Nile , and a majestic troop of thirty two elephants . 
But this accidental benefit , which science might derive from folly , is surely insufficient to justify such a wanton abuse of the public riches . 
There occurs , however , a single instance in the first Punic war , in which the senate wisely connected this amusement of the multitude with the interest of the state . 
A considerable number of elephants , taken in the defeat of the Carthaginian army , were driven through the circus by a few slaves , armed only with blunt javelins . 
The useful spectacle served to impress the Roman soldier with a just contempt for those unwieldy animals and he no longer dreaded to encounter them in the ranks of war . 
gives a very just and lively view of Roman magnificence in these spectacles . 
They are called Onagri but the number is too inconsiderable for mere wild asses . 
has proved from Oppian , Dion , and an anonymous Greek , that zebras had been seen at Rome . 
They were brought from some island of the ocean , perhaps Madagascar . 
In the latter spectacles , I do not recollect any crocodiles , of which Augustus once exhibited thirty six . 
We are not acquainted with the animals which he calls archeleontes some read argoleontes others agrioleontes both corrections are very nugatory Plin . 
, from the annals of Piso . 
Posterity admires , and will long admire , the awful remains of the amphitheatre of Titus , which so well deserved the epithet of Colossal . 
The outside of the edifice was encrusted with marble , and decorated with statues . 
Nothing was omitted , which , in any respect , could be subservient to the convenience and pleasure of the spectators . 
They were protected from the sun and rain by an ample canopy , occasionally drawn over their heads . 
The air was continally refreshed by the playing of fountains , and profusely impregnated by the grateful scent of aromatics . 
In the centre of the edifice , the arena , or stage , was strewed with the finest sand , and successively assumed the most different forms . 
At one moment it seemed to rise out of the earth , like the garden of the Hesperides , and was afterwards broken into the rocks and caverns of Thrace . 
See Maffei , Verona Illustrata , p . 
The height was very much exaggerated by the ancients . 
finds room on the open seats for no more than , . 
The remainder were contained in the upper covered galleries . 
He treats the very difficult subject with all possible clearness , and like an architect , as well as an antiquarian . 
These lines are curious , and the whole eclogue has been of infinite use to Maffei . 
was a poet but when they described the amphitheatre , they both wrote from their own senses , and to those of the Romans . 
Balteus en gemmis , en inlita porticus auro Certatim radiant , c . 
Et Martis vultus et Apollinis esse putavi , says Calphurnius but John Malala , who had perhaps seen pictures of Carinus , describes him as thick , short , and white , tom . 
With regard to the time when these Roman games were celebrated , Scaliger , Salmasius , and Cuper have given themselves a great deal of trouble to perplex a very clear subject . 
The sons of Carus never saw each other after their father's death . 
The jealousy of power must have been inflamed by the opposition of characters . 
In the most corrupt of times , Carinus was unworthy to live Numerian deserved to reign in a happier period . 
His affable manners and gentle virtues secured him , as soon as they became known , the regard and affections of the public . 
He possessed the elegant accomplishments of a poet and orator , which dignify as well as adorn the humblest and the most exalted station . 
But the talents of Numerian were rather of the contemplative than of the active kind . 
When his father's elevation reluctantly forced him from the shade of retirement , neither his temper nor his pursuits had qualified him for the command of armies . 
The Imperial pavilion was strictly guarded by his most trusty adherents and during many days , Aper delivered to the army the supposed mandates of their invisible sovereign . 
seems to anticipate in his fancy that auspicious day . 
He won all the crowns from Nemesianus , with whom he vied in didactic poetry . 
The senate erected a statue to the son of Carus , with a very ambiguous inscription , To the most powerful of orators . 
incessantly weeping for his father's death . 
In the Persian war , Aper was suspected of a design to betray Carus . 
The legions halted at Chalcedon in Asia , while the court passed over to Heraclea , on the European side of the Propontis . 
The impatience of the soldiers could not long support a state of suspense . 
With rude curiosity they broke into the Imperial tent , and discovered only the corpse of Numerian . 
A general assembly of the army was appointed to be held at Chalcedon , whither Aper was transported in chains , as a prisoner and a criminal . 
A vacant tribunal was erected in the midst of the camp , and the generals and tribunes formed a great military council . 
The future fortunes of the candidate depended on the chance or conduct of the present hour . 
Then , assuming the tone of a sovereign and a judge , he commanded that Aper should be brought in chains to the foot of the tribunal . 
A charge supported by such decisive proof was admitted without contradiction , and the legions , with repeated acclamations , acknowledged the justice and authority of the emperor Diocletian . 
We are obliged to the Alexandrian Chronicle , p . 
, for the knowledge of the time and place where Diocletian was elected emperor . 
According to these judicious writers , the death of Numerian was discovered by the stench of his dead body . 
Could no aromatics be found in the Imperial household ? Aurel . 
was founded on a prophecy and a pun , as foolish as they are well known . 
Before we enter upon the memorable reign of that prince , it will be proper to punish and dismiss the unworthy brother of Numerian . 
Carinus possessed arms and treasures sufficient to support his legal title to the empire . 
But his personal vices overbalanced every advantage of birth and situation . 
The most faithful servants of the father despised the incapacity , and dreaded the cruel arrogance , of the son . 
The hearts of the people were engaged in favor of his rival , and even the senate was inclined to prefer a usurper to a tyrant . 
The arts of Diocletian inflamed the general discontent and the winter was employed in secret intrigues , and open preparations for a civil war . 
Their ranks were broken , and , for a moment , Diocletian despaired of the purple and of life . 
But the advantage which Carinus had obtained by the valor of his soldiers , he quickly lost by the infidelity of his officers . 
A tribune , whose wife he had seduced , seized the opportunity of revenge , and , by a single blow , extinguished civil discord in the blood of the adulterer . 
Eutropius marks its situation very accurately it was between the Mons Aureus and Viminiacum . 
places Margus at Kastolatz in Servia , a little below Belgrade and Semendria . 
Not Kullieza Eton Atlas M. Hist . 
Aurelius Victor et Epitome Chapter XIII Reign Of Diocletian And This Three Associates . 
Part I. The Reign Of Diocletian And His Three Associates , Maximian , Galerius , And Constantius . 
General Reestablishment Of Order And Tranquillity . 
The Persian War , Victory , And Triumph . 
The New Form Of Administration . 
Abdication And Retirement Of Diocletian And Maximian . 
As the reign of Diocletian was more illustrious than that of any of his predecessors , so was his birth more abject and obscure . 
Diocletian was successively promoted to the government of Maesia , the honors of the consulship , and the important command of the guards of the palace . 
The malice of religious zeal , whilst it arraigns the savage fierceness of his colleague Maximian , has affected to cast suspicions on the personal courage of the emperor Diocletian . 
Yet even calumny is sagacious enough to discover and to attack the most vulnerable part . 
Like Augustus , Diocletian may be considered as the founder of a new empire . 
and the original name of the fortunate slave was probably Docles he first lengthened it to the Grecian harmony of Diocles , and at length to the Roman majesty of Diocletianus . 
He likewise assumed the Patrician name of Valerius and it is usually given him by Aurelius Victor . 
See Dacier on the sixth satire of the second book of Horace Cornel . 
accuses Diocletian of timidity in two places , c . 
he says of him , erat in omni tumultu meticulosu et animi disjectus . 
The victory of Diocletian was remarkable for its singular mildness . 
In this encomium , Aurelius Victor seems to convey a just , though indirect , censure of the cruelty of Constantius . 
It appears from the Fasti , that Aristobulus remained praefect of the city , and that he ended with Diocletian the consulship which he had commenced with Carinus . 
Aurelius Victor styles Diocletian , Parentum potius quam Dominum . 
The first considerable action of his reign seemed to evince his sincerity as well as his moderation . 
After the example of Marcus , he gave himself a colleague in the person of Maximian , on whom he bestowed at first the title of Caesar , and afterwards that of Augustus . 
But the motives of his conduct , as well as the object of his choice , were of a very different nature from those of his admired predecessor . 
By investing a luxurious youth with the honors of the purple , Marcus had discharged a debt of private gratitude , at the expense , indeed , of the happiness of the state . 
Maximian was born a peasant , and , like Aurelian , in the territory of Sirmium . 
Ignorant of letters , careless of laws , the rusticity of his appearance and manners still betrayed in the most elevated fortune the meanness of his extraction . 
War was the only art which he professed . 
Nor were the vices of Maximian less useful to his benefactor . 
Insensible to pity , and fearless of consequences , he was the ready instrument of every act of cruelty which the policy of that artful prince might at once suggest and disclaim . 
Notwithstanding the difference of their characters , the two emperors maintained , on the throne , that friendship which they had contracted in a private station . 
From a motive either of pride or superstition , the two emperors assumed the titles , the one of Jovius , the other of Herculius . 
was maintained by the all seeing wisdom of Jupiter , the invincible arm of Hercules purged the earth from monsters and tyrants . 
The question of the time when Maximian received the honors of Caesar and Augustus has divided modern critics , and given occasion to a great deal of learned wrangling . 
who has weighed the several reasons and difficulties with his scrupulous accuracy . 
Note Eckbel concurs in this view , viii p . 
Mamertinus expresses a doubt , whether his hero , in imitating the conduct of Hannibal and Scipio , had ever heard of their names . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
As among the Panegyrics , we find orations pronounced in praise of Maximian , and others which flatter his adversaries at his expense , we derive some knowledge from the contrast . 
See the second and third Panegyrics , particularly iii . 
, , but it would be tedious to copy the diffuse and affected expressions of their false eloquence . 
With regard to the titles , consult Aurel . 
Victor Lactantius de M. P. c . 
Spanheim de Usu Numismatum , c . 
But even the omnipotence of Jovius and Herculius was insufficient to sustain the weight of the public administration . 
The prudence of Diocletian discovered that the empire , assailed on every side by the barbarians , required on every side the presence of a great army , and of an emperor . 
The birth of Constantius was less obscure than that of his colleagues . 
Eutropius , his father , was one of the most considerable nobles of Dardania , and his mother was the niece of the emperor Claudius . 
These four princes distributed among themselves the wide extent of the Roman empire . 
The defence of Gaul , Spain , and Britain , was intrusted to Constantius Galerius was stationed on the banks of the Danube , as the safeguard of the Illyrian provinces . 
Italy and Africa were considered as the department of Maximian and for his peculiar portion , Diocletian reserved Thrace , Egypt , and the rich countries of Asia . 
Every one was sovereign with his own jurisdiction but their united authority extended over the whole monarchy , and each of them was prepared to assist his colleagues with his counsels or presence . 
On the relative power of the Augusti and the Caesars , consult a dissertation at the end of Manso's Leben Constantius des Grossen M. Aurelius Victor . 
Lactant de M. P. c . 
It is only among the modern Greeks that Tillemont can discover his appellation of Chlorus . 
Any remarkable degree of paleness seems inconsistent with the rubor mentioned in Panegyric , v . 
Julian , the grandson of Constantius , boasts that his family was derived from the warlike Maesians . 
The Dardanians dwelt on the edge of Maesia . 
Galerius married Valeria , the daughter of Diocletian if we speak with strictness , Theodora , the wife of Constantius , was daughter only to the wife of Maximian . 
Spanheim , Dissertat , xi . 
This division agrees with that of the four praefectures yet there is some reason to doubt whether Spain was not a province of Maximian . 
Note According to Aurelius Victor and other authorities , Thrace belonged to the division of Galerius . 
But the laws of Diocletian are in general dated in Illyria or Thrace . 
Spanheim's notes to the French translation , p . 
This important measure was not carried into execution till about six years after the association of Maximian , and that interval of time had not been destitute of memorable incidents . 
It should seem that very many of those institutions , referred by an easy solution to the feudal system , are derived from the Celtic barbarians . 
When Caesar subdued the Gauls , that great nation was already divided into three orders of men the clergy , the nobility , and the common people . 
The first governed by superstition , the second by arms , but the third and last was not of any weight or account in their public councils . 
continued till the fifth century in Gaul . 
Some critics derive it from a Celtic word Bagad , a tumultuous assembly . 
Chronique de Froissart , vol . 
The naivete of his story is lost in our best modern writers . 
Orgetorix , the Helvetian , could arm for his defence a body of ten thousand slaves . 
Their oppression and misery are acknowledged by Eumenius Gallias efferatas injuriis . 
Their patience was at last provoked into despair . 
On every side they rose in multitudes , armed with rustic weapons , and with irresistible fury . 
They asserted the natural rights of men , but they asserted those rights with the most savage cruelty . 
The Gallic nobles , justly dreading their revenge , either took refuge in the fortified cities , or fled from the wild scene of anarchy . 
The peasants reigned without control and two of their most daring leaders had the folly and rashness to assume the Imperial ornaments . 
Their power soon expired at the approach of the legions . 
The strength of union and discipline obtained an easy victory over a licentious and divided multitude . 
We have medals coined by them Goltzius in Thes . 
The fact rests indeed on very slight authority , a life of St . 
Babolinus , which is probably of the seventh century . 
Maximian had no sooner recovered Gaul from the hands of the peasants , than he lost Britain by the usurpation of Carausius . 
To repel their desultory incursions , it was found necessary to create a naval power and the judicious measure was prosecuted with prudence and vigor . 
The integrity of the new admiral corresponded not with his abilities . 
The wealth of Carausius was , on this occasion , very justly considered as an evidence of his guilt and Maximian had already given orders for his death . 
But the crafty Menapian foresaw and prevented the severity of the emperor . 
By his liberality he had attached to his fortunes the fleet which he commanded , and secured the barbarians in his interest . 
Aurelius Victor calls them Germans . 
gives them the name of Saxons . 
But Eutropius lived in the ensuing century , and seems to use the language of his own times . 
The three expressions of Eutropius , Aurelius Victor , and Eumenius , vilissime natus , Bataviae alumnus , and Menapiae civis , give us a very doubtful account of the birth of Carausius . 
chooses to make him a native of St . 
David's and a prince of the blood royal of Britain . 
The former idea he had found in Richard of Cirencester , p . 
Note The Menapians were settled between the Scheldt and the Meuse , is the northern part of Brabant . 
Britain at this time was secure , and slightly guarded . 
When Britain was thus dismembered from the empire , its importance was sensibly felt , and its loss sincerely lamented . 
Above all , they regretted the large amount of the revenue of Britain , whilst they confessed , that such a province well deserved to become the seat of an independent monarchy . 
During the space of seven years it was possessed by Carausius and fortune continued propitious to a rebellion supported with courage and ability . 
Born on the confines of the Franks , he courted the friendship of that formidable people , by the flattering imitation of their dress and manners . 
Carausius still preserved the possession of Boulogne and the adjacent country . 
Under his command , Britain , destined in a future age to obtain the empire of the sea , already assumed its natural and respectable station of a maritime power . 
with the importance of the conquest . 
Notwithstanding our laudable partiality for our native country , it is difficult to conceive , that , in the beginning of the fourth century England deserved all these commendations . 
A century and a half before , it hardly paid its own establishment . 
Stukely , in particular , has devoted a large volume to the British emperor . 
I have used his materials , and rejected most of his fanciful conjectures . 
By seizing the fleet of Boulogne , Carausius had deprived his master of the means of pursuit and revenge . 
This disappointed effort was soon productive of a treaty of peace . 
His first enterprise was against the important place of Boulogne . 
A stupendous mole , raised across the entrance of the harbor , intercepted all hopes of relief . 
The town surrendered after an obstinate defence and a considerable part of the naval strength of Carausius fell into the hands of the besiegers . 
When Mamertinus pronounced his first panegyric , the naval preparations of Maximian were completed and the orator presaged an assured victory . 
His silence in the second panegyric might alone inform us that the expedition had not succeeded . 
to insert the identical articles of the treaty . 
Before the preparations were finished , Constantius received the intelligence of the tyrant's death , and it was considered as a sure presage of the approaching victory . 
The servants of Carausius imitated the example of treason which he had given . 
He was murdered by his first minister , Allectus , and the assassin succeeded to his power and to his danger . 
But he possessed not equal abilities either to exercise the one or to repel the other . 
The weather proved favorable to their enterprise . 
Asclepiodatus had no sooner disembarked the imperial troops , then he set fire to his ships and , as the expedition proved fortunate , his heroic conduct was universally admired . 
He performed this long march in so precipitate a manner , that he encountered the whole force of the praefect with a small body of harassed and disheartened troops . 
With regard to the recovery of Britain , we obtain a few hints from Aurelius Victor and Eutropius . 
Chapter XIII Reign Of Diocletian And This Three Associates . 
The peace of the continent , and the defence of the principal rivers which bounded the empire , were objects of far greater difficulty and importance . 
Nor was the precaution of the emperor less watchful against the well known valor of the barbarians of Europe . 
A barrier so respectable was seldom violated , and the barbarians often turned against each other their disappointed rage . 
The Goths , the Vandals , the Gepidae , the Burgundians , the Alemanni , wasted each other's strength by destructive hostilities and whosoever vanquished , they vanquished the enemies of Rome . 
The subjects of Diocletian enjoyed the bloody spectacle , and congratulated each other , that the mischiefs of civil war were now experienced only by the barbarians . 
John Malala , in Chron , Antiochen . 
Ruunt omnes in sanguinem suum populi , quibus ron contigilesse Romanis , obstinataeque feritatis poenas nunc sponte persolvunt . 
Mamertinus illustrates the fact by the example of almost all the nations in the world . 
Notwithstanding the policy of Diocletian , it was impossible to maintain an equal and undisturbed tranquillity during a reign of twenty years , and along a frontier of many hundred miles . 
Sometimes the barbarians suspended their domestic animosities , and the relaxed vigilance of the garrisons sometimes gave a passage to their strength or dexterity . 
The vigilant Galerius was never reduced to the necessity of vanquishing an army of barbarians on the Roman territory . 
The brave and active Contsantius delivered Gaul from a very furious inroad of the Alemanni and his victories of Langres and Vindonissa appear to have been actions of considerable danger and merit . 
As he traversed the open country with a feeble guard , he was encompassed on a sudden by the superior multitude of the enemy . 
He complained , though not with the strictest truth , Jam fluxisse annos quindecim in quibus , in Illyrico , ad ripam Danubii relegatus cum gentibus barbaris luctaret . 
In the Greek text of Eusebius , we read six thousand , a number which I have preferred to the sixty thousand of Jerome , Orosius Eutropius , and his Greek translator Paeanius . 
The conduct which the emperor Probus had adopted in the disposal of the vanquished , was imitated by Diocletian and his associates . 
which had been depopulated by the calamities of war . 
They were usefully employed as shepherds and husbandmen , but were denied the exercise of arms , except when it was found expedient to enroll them in the military service . 
Nor did the emperors refuse the property of lands , with a less servile tenure , to such of the barbarians as solicited the protection of Rome . 
There was a settlement of the Sarmatians in the neighborhood of Treves , which seems to have been deserted by those lazy barbarians . 
Ausonius speaks of them in his Mosella Unde iter ingrediens nemorosa per avia solum , Et nulla humani spectans vestigia cultus . 
Arvaque Sauromatum nuper metata colonis . 
There was a town of the Carpi in the Lower Maesia . 
See the rhetorical exultation of Eumenius . 
While the Caesars exercised their valor on the banks of the Rhine and Danube , the presence of the emperors was required on the southern confines of the Roman world . 
From the Nile to Mount Atlas Africa was in arms . 
A confederacy of five Moorish nations issued from their deserts to invade the peaceful provinces . 
Julian had assumed the purple at Carthage . 
Achilleus at Alexandria , and even the Blemmyes , renewed , or rather continued , their incursions into the Upper Egypt . 
After a siege of eight months , Alexandria , wasted by the sword and by fire , implored the clemency of the conqueror , but it experienced the full extent of his severity . 
Many thousands of the citizens perished in a promiscuous slaughter , and there were few obnoxious persons in Egypt who escaped a sentence either of death or at least of exile . 
The character of the Egyptian nation , insensible to kindness , but extremely susceptible of fear , could alone justify this excessive rigor . 
The seditions of Alexandria had often affected the tranquillity and subsistence of Rome itself . 
Since the usurpation of Firmus , the province of Upper Egypt , incessantly relapsing into rebellion , had embraced the alliance of the savages of Aethiopia . 
The number of the Blemmyes , scattered between the Island of Meroe and the Red Sea , was very inconsiderable , their disposition was unwarlike , their weapons rude and inoffensive . 
decides , in his usual manner , that the Quinque gentiani , or five African nations , were the five great cities , the Pentapolis of the inoffensive province of Cyrene . 
Foot note After his defeat , Julian stabbed himself with a dagger , and immediately leaped into the flames . 
Tu ferocissimos Mauritaniae populos inaccessis montium jugis et naturali munitione fidentes , expugnasti , recepisti , transtulisti . 
See the description of Alexandria , in Hirtius de Bel . 
Yet Eumenius assures us , that Egypt was pacified by the clemency of Diocletian . 
places their destruction several years sooner and at a time when Egypt itself was in a state of rebellion against the Romans . 
His words are curious Intra , si credere libet vix , homines magisque semiferi Aegipanes , et Blemmyes , et Satyri . 
Ausus sese inserere fortunae et provocare arma Romana . 
which subsisted till the edict of Theodosius , in the sixth century , a dissertation of M. Letronne , on certain Greek inscriptions . 
The dissertation contains some very interesting observations on the conduct and policy of Diocletian in Egypt . 
One very remarkable edict which he published , instead of being condemned as the effect of jealous tyranny , deserves to be applauded as an act of prudence and humanity . 
It may be remarked , that these ancient books , so liberally ascribed to Pythagoras , to Solomon , or to Hermes , were the pious frauds of more recent adepts . 
The Greeks were inattentive either to the use or to the abuse of chemistry . 
The conquest of Egypt by the Arabs diffused that vain science over the globe . 
Congenial to the avarice of the human heart , it was studied in China as in Europe , with equal eagerness , and with equal success . 
He fixed the public allowance of corn , for the people of Alexandria , at two millions of medimni about four hundred thousand quarters . 
John Antioch , in Excerp . 
See a short history and confutation of Alchemy , in the works of that philosophical compiler , La Mothe le Vayer , tom . 
The reduction of Egypt was immediately followed by the Persian war . 
It was reserved for the reign of Diocletian to vanquish that powerful nation , and to extort a confession from the successors of Artaxerxes , of the superior majesty of the Roman empire . 
Tiridates derived from his exile such advantages as he could never have obtained on the throne of Armenia the early knowledge of adversity , of mankind , and of the Roman discipline . 
Those qualities were more nobly exerted in the defence of his benefactor Licinius . 
The gratitude of Tiridates contributed soon afterwards to his restoration . 
In the third year of that emperor's reign Tiridates was invested with the kingdom of Armenia . 
The justice of the measure was not less evident than its expediency . 
See the education and strength of Tiridates in the Armenian history of Moses of Chorene , l . 
He could seize two wild bulls by the horns , and break them off with his hands . 
that Licinius was at that time in the last period of old age sixteen years before , he is represented with gray hairs , and as the contemporary of Galerius . 
Licinius was probably born about the year . 
See the sixty second and sixty third books of Dion Cassius . 
When Tiridates appeared on the frontiers of Armenia , he was received with an unfeigned transport of joy and loyalty . 
During twenty six years , the country had experienced the real and imaginary hardships of a foreign yoke . 
The Persian monarchs adorned their new conquest with magnificent buildings but those monuments had been erected at the expense of the people , and were abhorred as badges of slavery . 
We have already remarked the intolerant spirit of the Magian religion . 
It was natural , that a people exasperated by so many injuries , should arm with zeal in the cause of their independence , their religion , and their hereditary sovereign . 
The torrent bore down every obstacle , and the Persian garrisons retreated before its fury . 
The command of the army was bestowed on Artavasdes , whose father had saved the infancy of Tiridates , and whose family had been massacred for that generous action . 
The brother of Artavasdes obtained the government of a province . 
Among the Armenian nobles appeared an ally , whose fortunes are too remarkable to pass unnoticed . 
Having incurred the displeasure of his master , Mamgo , with his followers , retired to the banks of the Oxus , and implored the protection of Sapor . 
The emperor of China claimed the fugitive , and alleged the rights of sovereignty . 
They were employed to repel the invasion of Tiridates but their leader , after weighing the obligations and injuries which he had received from the Persian monarch , resolved to abandon his party . 
The Armenian nobility was numerous and powerful . 
and which still subsisted in his own time , about the middle of the fifth century . 
See the preface of his Editors . 
She was named Chosroiduchta , and had not the os patulum like other women . 
I do not understand the expression . 
Note Os patulum signifies merely a large and widely opening mouth . 
says , speaking of the monster who attacked Hippolytus , patulo partem maris evomit ore . 
Probably a wide mouth was a common defect among the Armenian women . 
belonged to the imperial race of Hon , who had filled the throne of China for four hundred years . 
Dethroned by the usurping race of Wei , Mamgo found a hospitable reception in Persia in the reign of Ardeschir . 
I have banished him to the extremity of the earth , where the sun sets I have dismissed him to certain death . 
as well as in the Geography , China is called Zenia , or Zenastan . 
It is characterized by the production of silk , by the opulence of the natives , and by their love of peace , above all the other nations of the earth . 
In those ages the Chinese kept a garrison at Kashgar , and one of their generals , about the time of Trajan , marched as far as the Caspian Sea . 
With regard to the intercourse between China and the Western countries , a curious memoir of M. de Guignes may be consulted , in the Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
See also Klaproth , Tableaux Historiques de l'Asie , p . 
The embassy came by Jy nan , Tonquin . 
For a while , fortune appeared to favor the enterprising valor of Tiridates . 
It is from other information that we discover the distracted state of the Persian monarchy , to which the king of Armenia was indebted for some part of his advantages . 
Narses soon reestablished his authority over the revolted province and loudly complaining of the protection afforded by the Romans to rebels and fugitives , aspired to the conquest of the East . 
Ipsos Persas ipsumque Regem ascitis Saccis , et Russis , et Gellis , petit frater Ormies . 
The Saccae were a nation of wandering Scythians , who encamped towards the sources of the Oxus and the Jaxartes . 
The Gelli where the inhabitants of Ghilan , along the Caspian Sea , and who so long , under the name of Dilemines , infested the Persian monarchy . 
See d'Herbelot , Bibliotheque M St . 
Le roi de Perse profits d'un voyage que Tiridate avoit fait a Rome pour attaquer ce royaume . 
This reads like the evasion of the national historians to disguise the fact discreditable to their hero . 
Lactantius speaks of the ambition of Narses Concitatus domesticis exemplis avi sui Saporis ad occupandum orientem magnis copiis inhiabat . 
Neither prudence nor honor could permit the emperors to forsake the cause of the Armenian king , and it was resolved to exert the force of the empire in the Persian war . 
Diocletian , with the calm dignity which he constantly assumed , fixed his own station in the city of Antioch , from whence he prepared and directed the military operations . 
But the consideration of the country that was the scene of action , may suggest another reason for his defeat . 
The same ground on which Galerius was vanquished , had been rendered memorable by the death of Crassus , and the slaughter of ten legions . 
In this situation they were gradually encompassed by the superior numbers , harassed by the rapid evolutions , and destroyed by the arrows of the barbarian cavalry . 
The king of Armenia had signalized his valor in the battle , and acquired personal glory by the public misfortune . 
He was pursued as far as the Euphrates his horse was wounded , and it appeared impossible for him to escape the victorious enemy . 
In this extremity Tiridates embraced the only refuge which appeared before him he dismounted and plunged into the stream . 
We may readily believe , that Lactantius ascribes to cowardice the conduct of Diocletian . 
Julian , in his oration , says , that he remained with all the forces of the empire a very hyperbolical expression . 
I have transferred this exploit of Tiridates from an imaginary defeat to the real one of Galerius . 
A surprise , especially in the night time , was for the most part fatal to a Persian army . 
On this occasion , the impetuous attack of Galerius spread disorder and dismay over the camp of the barbarians . 
fled towards the deserts of Media . 
The principal loss of Narses was of a much more affecting nature . 
Several of his wives , his sisters , and children , who had attended the army , were made captives in the defeat . 
Jornandes de Rebus Geticis , c . 
Aurelius Victor says , Per Armeniam in hostes contendit , quae fermo sola , seu facilior vincendi via est . 
He followed the conduct of Trajan , and the idea of Julius Caesar . 
For that reason the Persian cavalry encamped sixty stadia from the enemy . 
The story is told by Ammianus , l . 
Instead of saccum , some read scutum . 
The Persians confessed the Roman superiority in morals as well as in arms . 
But this respect and gratitude of enemies is very seldom to be found in their own accounts . 
Chapter XIII Reign Of Diocletian And This Three Associates . 
On the intelligence of the victory he condescended to advance towards the frontier , with a view of moderating , by his presence and counsels , the pride of Galerius . 
The interview of the Roman princes at Nisibis was accompanied with every expression of respect on one side , and of esteem on the other . 
It was in that city that they soon afterwards gave audience to the ambassador of the Great King . 
He despatched Apharban , a servant who possessed his favor and confidence , with a commission to negotiate a treaty , or rather to receive whatever conditions the conqueror should impose . 
Apharban opened the conference by expressing his master's gratitude for the generous treatment of his family , and by soliciting the liberty of those illustrious captives . 
The account of the negotiation is taken from the fragments of Peter the Patrician , in the Excerpta Legationum , published in the Byzantine Collection . 
Peter lived under Justinian but it is very evident , by the nature of his materials , that they are drawn from the most authentic and respectable writers . 
Let them remember their own moderation , towards the unhappy Valerian . 
They vanquished him by fraud , they treated him with indignity . 
They detained him till the last moment of his life in shameful captivity , and after his death they exposed his body to perpetual ignominy . 
In this conference we may discover the fierce passions of Galerius , as well as his deference to the superior wisdom and authority of Diocletian . 
The ambition of the former grasped at the conquest of the East , and had proposed to reduce Persia into the state of a province . 
The prudence of the latter , who adhered to the moderate policy of Augustus and the Antonines , embraced the favorable opportunity of terminating a successful war by an honorable and advantageous peace . 
ut ni Valerius , cujus nutu omnis gerebantur , abnuisset , Romani fasces in provinciam novam ferrentur Verum pars terrarum tamen nobis utilior quaesita . 
In pursuance of their promise , the emperors soon afterwards appointed Sicorius Probus , one of their secretaries , to acquaint the Persian court with their final resolution . 
Three persons only assisted at this important conference , the minister Apharban , the praefect of the guards , and an officer who had commanded on the Armenian frontier . 
and lay to the east of Mount Ararat . 
Note The Siounikh of the Armenian writers St . 
M. As soon as this difficulty was removed , a solemn peace was concluded and ratified between the two nations . 
I. The Aboras , or , as it is called by Xenophon , the Araxes , was fixed as the boundary between the two monarchies . 
Mesopotomia , the object of so many wars , was ceded to the empire and the Persians , by this treaty , renounced all pretensions to that great province . 
They relinquished to the Romans five provinces beyond the Tigris . 
Their situation formed a very useful barrier , and their natural strength was soon improved by art and military skill . 
Their posterity , the Curds , with very little alteration either of name or manners , acknowledged the nominal sovereignty of the Turkish sultan . 
The limits of Armenia were extended as far as the fortress of Sintha in Media , and this increase of dominion was not so much an act of liberality as of justice . 
The country of Iberia was barren , its inhabitants rude and savage . 
But they were accustomed to the use of arms , and they separated from the empire barbarians much fiercer and more formidable than themselves . 
The nomination of the kings of Iberia , which was resigned by the Persian monarch to the emperors , contributed to the strength and security of the Roman power in Asia . 
The line of the Roman frontier traversed , but never followed , the course of the Tigris . 
Note There are here several errors . 
Gibbon has confounded the streams , and the towns which they pass . 
about twenty seven leagues from the Tigris it receives the waters of the Mygdonius , or Saocoras , about thirty three leagues below Nisibis . 
at five leagues from the Tigris . 
l'Euphrate et le Tigre , , , , and the map . 
Gibbon did not mean to speak of this river , which does not pass by Singara , and does not fall into the Euphrates . 
G. Procopius de Edificiis , l . 
Three of the provinces , Zabdicene , Arzanene , and Carduene , are allowed on all sides . 
But instead of the other two , Peter inserts Rehimene and Sophene . 
because it might be proved that Sophene was never in the hands of the Persians , either before the reign of Diocletian , or after that of Jovian . 
Martin , note on Le Beau , i . 
He would read , for Intiline , Ingeleme , the name of a small province of Armenia , near the sources of the Tigris , mentioned by St . 
for the unknown name Arzacene , with Gibbon , Arzanene . 
A prince of Carduene , ally or dependent on the empire , with the Roman name of Jovianus , occurs in the reign of Julian . 
M. Xenophon's Anabasis , l . 
Their bows were three cubits in length , their arrows two they rolled down stones that were each a wagon load . 
The Greeks found a great many villages in that rude country . 
the city of Tigranocerta was in Arzanene . 
The names and situation of the other three may be faintly traced . 
, and the map of Armenia given by his editors . 
Hiberi , locorum potentes , Caspia via Sarmatam in Armenios raptim effundunt . 
is the only writer who mentions the Iberian article of the treaty . 
The arduous work of rescuing the distressed empire from tyrants and barbarians had now been completely achieved by a succession of Illyrian peasants . 
Maximian , the equal partner of his power , was his only companion in the glory of that day . 
The triumph of Diocletian and Maximian was less magnificent , perhaps , than those of Aurelian and Probus , but it was dignified by several circumstances of superior fame and good fortune . 
The representations of rivers , mountains , and provinces , were carried before the Imperial car . 
The images of the captive wives , the sisters , and the children of the Great King , afforded a new and grateful spectacle to the vanity of the people . 
In the eyes of posterity , this triumph is remarkable , by a distinction of a less honorable kind . 
It was the last that Rome ever beheld . 
Soon after this period , the emperors ceased to vanquish , and Rome ceased to be the capital of the empire . 
Till the discovery of the treatise De Mortibus Persecutorum , it was not certain that the triumph and the Vicennalia was celebrated at the same time . 
At the time of the Vicennalia , Galerius seems to have kept station on the Danube . 
mentions them as a part of the triumph . 
As the persons had been restored to Narses , nothing more than their images could be exhibited . 
The spot on which Rome was founded had been consecrated by ancient ceremonies and imaginary miracles . 
The native Romans felt and confessed the power of this agreeable illusion . 
It was derived from their ancestors , had grown up with their earliest habits of life , and was protected , in some measure , by the opinion of political utility . 
The form and the seat of government were intimately blended together , nor was it esteemed possible to transport the one without destroying the other . 
During a long period , however , the remains of the ancient constitution , and the influence of custom , preserved the dignity of Rome . 
The emperors , though perhaps of African or Illyrian extraction , respected their adopted country , as the seat of their power , and the centre of their extensive dominions . 
Milan soon assumed the splendor of an Imperial city . 
The houses are described as numerous and well built the manners of the people as polished and liberal . 
Till Diocletian , in the twentieth year of his reign , celebrated his Roman triumph , it is extremely doubtful whether he ever visited the ancient capital of the empire . 
Even on that memorable occasion his stay did not exceed two months . 
full of eloquence and sensibility , in opposition to a design of removing the seat of government from Rome to the neighboring city of Veii . 
Julius Caesar was reproached with the intention of removing the empire to Ilium or Alexandria . 
According to the ingenious conjecture of Le Fevre and Dacier , the ode of the third book of Horace was intended to divert from the execution of a similar design . 
See Aurelius Victor , who likewise mentions the buildings erected by Maximian at Carthage , probably during the Moorish war . 
We shall insert some verses of Ausonius de Clar . 
Cunctaque marmoreis ornata Peristyla signis Moeniaque in valli formam circumdata labro , Omnia quae magnis operum velut aemula formis Excellunt nec juncta premit vicinia Romae . 
On a similar occasion , Ammianus mentions the dicacitas plebis , as not very agreeable to an Imperial ear . 
The dislike expressed by Diocletian towards Rome and Roman freedom , was not the effect of momentary caprice , but the result of the most artful policy . 
We may recollect , about eight years before the elevation , of Diocletian the transient greatness , and the ambitious hopes , of the Roman senate . 
As the sovereign of Italy , Maximian was intrusted with the care of extinguishing this troublesome , rather than dangerous spirit , and the task was perfectly suited to his cruel temper . 
But the most fatal though secret wound , which the senate received from the hands of Diocletian and Maximian , was inflicted by the inevitable operation of their absence . 
As long as the emperors resided at Rome , that assembly might be oppressed , but it could scarcely be neglected . 
The successors of Augustus exercised the power of dictating whatever laws their wisdom or caprice might suggest but those laws were ratified by the sanction of the senate . 
In the exercise of the legislative as well as the executive power , the sovereign advised with his ministers , instead of consulting the great council of the nation . 
The senate of Rome , losing all connection with the Imperial court and the actual constitution , was left a venerable but useless monument of antiquity on the Capitoline hill . 
Aurelius Victor speaks very doubtfully of the faith of Diocletian towards his friends . 
Truncatae vires urbis , imminuto praetoriarum cohortium atque in armis vulgi numero . 
They were old corps stationed in Illyricum and according to the ancient establishment , they each consisted of six thousand men . 
They had acquired much reputation by the use of the plumbatoe , or darts loaded with lead . 
Each soldier carried five of these , which he darted from a considerable distance , with great strength and dexterity . 
See the Theodosian Code , l . 
Chapter XIII Reign Of Diocletian And This Three Associates . 
When the Roman princes had lost sight of the senate and of their ancient capital , they easily forgot the origin and nature of their legal power . 
The civil offices of consul , of proconsul , of censor , and of tribune , by the union of which it had been formed , betrayed to the people its republican extraction . 
The name of Emperor , which was at first of a military nature , was associated with another of a more servile kind . 
Viewing it in that odious light , it had been rejected with abhorrence by the first Caesars . 
But the sentiments of the East were very different from those of the West . 
Even the attributes , or at least the titles , of the Divinity , were usurped by Diocletian and Maximian , who transmitted them to a succession of Christian emperors . 
See the th dissertation in Spanheim's excellent work de Usu Numismatum . 
From medals , inscriptions , and historians , he examines every title separately , and traces it from Augustus to the moment of its disappearing . 
speaks of Dominus with execration , as synonymous to Tyrant , and opposite to Prince . 
to his friend rather than master , the virtuous Trajan . 
This strange contradiction puzzles the commentators , who think , and the translators , who can write . 
Synesius de Regno , edit . 
I am indebted for this quotation to the Abbe de la Bleterie . 
Soe Vandale de Consecratione , p . 
their numen , sacreo majesty , divine oracles , c . 
According to Tillemont , Gregory Nazianzen complains most bitterly of the profanation , especially when it was practised by an Arian emperor . 
But this dignity belonged to the office , not to the individual this pomp belonged to the magistrate , not to the man . 
The first emperors went no further . 
Tiberius had , for his personal attendance , only a moderate number of slaves , and a few freedmen . 
But in proportion as the republican forms disappeared , one after another , the inclination of the emperors to environ themselves with personal pomp , displayed itself more and more . 
The magnificence and the ceremonial of the East were entirely introduced by Diocletian , and were consecrated by Constantine to the Imperial use . 
Thenceforth the palace , the court , the table , all the personal attendance , distinguished the emperor from his subjects , still more than his superior dignity . 
The organization which Diocletian gave to his new court , attached less honor and distinction to rank than to services performed towards the members of the Imperial family . 
Hegewisch , Essai , Hist . 
Few historians have characterized , in a more philosophic manner , the influence of a new institution . 
G. It is singular that the son of a slave reduced the haughty aristocracy of Home to the offices of servitude . 
The pride , or rather the policy , of Diocletian , engaged that artful prince to introduce the stately magnificence of the court of Persia . 
It was no more than a broad white fillet set with pearls , which encircled the emperor's head . 
The sumptuous robes of Diocletian and his successors were of silk and gold and it is remarked with indignation , that even their shoes were studded with the most precious gems . 
The access to their sacred person was every day rendered more difficult by the institution of new forms and ceremonies . 
The avenues of the palace were strictly guarded by the various schools , as they began to be called , of domestic officers . 
The interior apartments were intrusted to the jealous vigilance of the eunuchs , the increase of whose numbers and influence was the most infallible symptom of the progress of despotism . 
It was the aim of the one to disguise , and the object of the other to display , the unbounded power which the emperors possessed over the Roman world . 
See Spanheim de Usu Numismat . 
It appears by the Panegyrists , that the Romans were soon reconciled to the name and ceremony of adoration . 
Ostentation was the first principle of the new system instituted by Diocletian . 
He divided the empire , the provinces , and every branch of the civil as well as military administration . 
He multiplied the wheels of the machine of government , and rendered its operations less rapid , but more secure . 
The empire was divided into four parts . 
The East and Italy were the most honorable , the Danube and the Rhine the most laborious stations . 
The former claimed the presence of the Augusti , the latter were intrusted to the administration of the Coesars . 
The strength of the legions was in the hands of the four partners of sovereignty , and the despair of successively vanquishing four formidable rivals might intimidate the ambition of an aspiring general . 
when the proportion of those who received , exceeded the proportion of those who contributed , the provinces were oppressed by the weight of tributes . 
From this period to the extinction of the empire , it would be easy to deduce an uninterrupted series of clamors and complaints . 
The most curious document which has come to light since the publication of Gibbon's History , is the edict of Diocletian , published from an inscription found at Eskihissar , by Col . 
This inscription was first copied by Sherard , afterwards much more completely by Mr. Bankes . 
It is confirmed and illustrated by a more imperfect copy of the same edict , found in the Levant by a gentleman of Aix , and brought to this country by M. Vescovali . 
This edict was issued in the name of the four Caesars , Diocletian , Maximian , Constantius , and Galerius . 
It fixed a maximum of prices throughout the empire , for all the necessaries and commodities of life . 
The preamble insists , with great vehemence on the extortion and inhumanity of the venders and merchants . 
The edict , as Col . 
Leake clearly shows , was issued A. C. . 
Leake supposes the average price could not be less than four at the same time the maximum of the wages of the agricultural laborers was twenty five . 
See an Edict of Diocletian , by Col . 
Leake has not observed that this Edict is expressly named in the treatise de Mort . 
Idem cum variis iniquitatibus immensam faceret caritatem , legem pretiis rerum venalium statuere conatus . 
M Indicta lex nova quae sane illorum temporum modestia tolerabilis , in perniciem processit . 
, who has treated the character of Diocletian with good sense , though in bad Latin . 
Diocletian acquired the glory of giving to the world the first example of a resignation , which has not been very frequently imitated by succeeding monarchs . 
Solus omnium post conditum Romanum Imperium , qui extanto fastigio sponte ad privatae vitae statum civilitatemque remearet , Eutrop . 
The particulars of the journey and illness are taken from Laclantius , c . 
, ) who may sometimes be admitted as an evidence of public facts , though very seldom of private anecdotes . 
It was time to put an end to the painful struggle , which he had sustained during more than a year , between the care of his health and that of his dignity . 
The former required indulgence and relaxation , the latter compelled him to direct , from the bed of sickness , the administration of a great empire . 
Aurelius Victor ascribes the abdication , which had been so variously accounted for , to two causes st , Diocletian's contempt of ambition and dly , His apprehension of impending troubles . 
mentions the age and infirmities of Diocletian as a very natural reason for his retirement . 
more than insinuated that derangement of mind , connected with the conflagration of the palace at Nicomedia by lightning , was the cause of his abdication . 
M. The ceremony of his abdication was performed in a spacious plain , about three miles from Nicomedia . 
On the same day , which was the first of May , Maximian , as it had been previously concerted , made his resignation of the Imperial dignity at Milan . 
Even in the splendor of the Roman triumph , Diocletian had meditated his design of abdicating the government . 
The difficulties as well as mistakes attending the dates both of the year and of the day of Diocletian's abdication are perfectly cleared up by Tillemont , Hist . 
p , note , and by Pagi ad annum . 
The oration was pronounced after Maximian had resumed the purple . 
Diocletian , who , from a servile origin , had raised himself to the throne , passed the nine last years of his life in a private condition . 
It is seldom that minds long exercised in business have formed the habits of conversing with themselves , and in the loss of power they principally regret the want of occupation . 
His answer to Maximian is deservedly celebrated . 
He was solicited by that restless old man to reassume the reins of government , and the Imperial purple . 
He confers the most important offices upon vice and weakness , and disgraces the most virtuous and deserving among his subjects . 
By such infamous arts , added Diocletian , the best and wisest princes are sold to the venal corruption of their courtiers . 
It was impossible that he could remain ignorant of the troubles which afflicted the empire after his abdication . 
It was impossible that he could be indifferent to their consequences . 
Fear , sorrow , and discontent , sometimes pursued him into the solitude of Salona . 
A report , though of a very doubtful nature , has reached our times , that he prudently withdrew himself from their power by a voluntary death . 
Felix beatusque vere quem vestra , tantorum principum , colunt privatum . 
We are obliged to the younger Victor for this celebrated item . 
Eutropius mentions the thing in a more general manner . 
Vopiscus had learned this conversation from his father . 
The younger Victor slightly mentions the report . 
But as Diocletian had disobliged a powerful and successful party , his memory has been loaded with every crime and misfortune . 
It has been affirmed that he died raving mad , that he was condemned as a criminal by the Roman senate , c . 
Before we dismiss the consideration of the life and character of Diocletian , we may , for a moment , direct our view to the place of his retirement . 
from Aquileia and the confines of Italy , and about two hundred and seventy from Sirmium , the usual residence of the emperors whenever they visited the Illyrian frontier . 
The choice of a spot which united all that could contribute either to health or to luxury , did not require the partiality of a native . 
The views from the palace are no less beautiful than the soil and climate were inviting . 
Towards the north , the view is terminated by high and irregular mountains , situated at a proper distance , and in many places covered with villages , woods , and vineyards . 
The Abate Fortis , in his Viaggio in Dalmazia , p . 
quotes a Ms account of the antiquities of Salona , composed by Giambattista Giustiniani about the middle of the xvith century . 
Adam's Antiquities of Diocletian's Palace at Spalatro , p . 
observes , that a taste for agriculture is reviving at Spalatro and that an experimental farm has lately been established near the city , by a society of gentlemen . 
It covered an extent of ground consisting of between nine and ten English acres . 
The form was quadrangular , flanked with sixteen towers . 
Two of the sides were near six hundred , and the other two near seven hundred feet in length . 
The whole was constructed of a beautiful freestone , extracted from the neighboring quarries of Trau , or Tragutium , and very little inferior to marble itself . 
The approach was terminated by a peristylium of granite columns , on one side of which we discover the square temple of Aesculapius , on the other the octagon temple of Jupiter . 
The latter of those deities Diocletian revered as the patron of his fortunes , the former as the protector of his health . 
Their forms were various , their proportions just but they all were attended with two imperfections , very repugnant to our modern notions of taste and conveniency . 
These stately rooms had neither windows nor chimneys . 
and they received their heat by the help of pipes that were conveyed along the walls . 
In this sermon , the emperor , or the bishop who composed it for him , affects to relate the miserable end of all the persecutors of the church . 
Had this magnificent edifice remained in a solitary country , it would have been exposed to the ravages of time but it might , perhaps , have escaped the rapacious industry of man . 
The village of Aspalathus , and , long afterwards , the provincial town of Spalatro , have grown out of its ruins . 
The Golden Gate now opens into the market place . 
John the Baptist has usurped the honors of Aesculapius and the temple of Jupiter , under the protection of the Virgin , is converted into the cathedral church . 
For this account of Diocletian's palace we are principally indebted to an ingenious artist of our own time and country , whom a very liberal curiosity carried into the heart of Dalmatia . 
But there is room to suspect that the elegance of his designs and engraving has somewhat flattered the objects which it was their purpose to represent . 
If such was indeed the state of architecture , we must naturally believe that painting and sculpture had experienced a still more sensible decay . 
The practice of architecture is directed by a few general and even mechanical rules . 
But sculpture , and above all , painting , propose to themselves the imitation not only of the forms of nature , but of the characters and passions of the human soul . 
In those sublime arts , the dexterity of the hand is of little avail , unless it is animated by fancy , and guided by the most correct taste and observation . 
D'Anville , Geographie Ancienne , tom . 
Messieurs Adam and Clerisseau , attended by two draughtsmen visited Spalatro in the month of July , . 
The magnificent work which their journey produced was published in London seven years afterwards . 
I shall quote the words of the Abate Fortis . 
E'bastevolmente agli amatori dell' Architettura , e dell' Antichita , l'opera del Signor Adams , che a donato molto a que' superbi vestigi coll'abituale eleganza del suo toccalapis e del bulino . 
In generale la rozzezza del scalpello , e'l cattivo gusto del secolo vi gareggiano colla magnificenz del fabricato . 
See Viaggio in Dalmazia , p . 
The succession of Illyrian princes restored the empire without restoring the sciences . 
The voice of poetry was silent . 
History was reduced to dry and confused abridgments , alike destitute of amusement and instruction . 
The orator Eumenius was secretary to the emperors Maximian and Constantius , and Professor of Rhetoric in the college of Autun . 
His salary was six hundred thousand sesterces , which , according to the lowest computation of that age , must have exceeded three thousand pounds a year . 
He generously requested the permission of employing it in rebuilding the college . 
See his Oration De Restaurandis Scholis which , though not exempt from vanity , may atone for his panegyrics . 
The declining age of learning and of mankind is marked , however , by the rise and rapid progress of the new Platonists . 
Consuming their reason in these deep but unsubstantial meditations , their minds were exposed to illusions of fancy . 
The ancient sages had derided the popular superstition after disguising its extravagance by the thin pretence of allegory , the disciples of Plotinus and Porphyry became its most zealous defenders . 
As they agreed with the Christians in a few mysterious points of faith , they attacked the remainder of their theological system with all the fury of civil war . 
The new Platonists would scarcely deserve a place in the history of science , but in that of the church the mention of them will very frequently occur . 
Porphyry died about the time of Diocletian's abdication . 
The life of his master Plotinus , which he composed , will give us the most complete idea of the genius of the sect , and the manners of its professors . 
This very curious piece is inserted in Fabricius Bibliotheca Graeca tom . 
Chapter XIV Six Emperors At The Same Time , Reunion Of The Empire . 
Part I. Troubles After The Abdication Of Diocletian . 
Elevation Of Constantine And Maxen Tius . 
Six Emperors At The Same Time . 
Death Of Maximian And Galerius . 
Victories Of Constantine Over Maxentius And Licinus . 
Reunion Of The Empire Under The Authority Of Constantine . 
The balance of power established by Diocletian subsisted no longer than while it was sustained by the firm and dexterous hand of the founder . 
The abdication of Diocletian and Maximian was succeeded by eighteen years of discord and confusion . 
supposes , on the authority of Orosius and Eusebius , that , on this occasion , the empire , for the first time , was really divided into two parts . 
It is difficult , however , to discover in what respect the plan of Galerius differed from that of Diocletian . 
The government of those ample provinces was sufficient to exercise his talents and to satisfy his ambition . 
Instead of imitating their eastern pride and magnificence , Constantius preserved the modesty of a Roman prince . 
Hic non modo amabilis , sed etiam venerabilis Gallis fuit praecipuc quod Diocletiani suspectam prudentiam , et Maximiani sanguinariam violentiam imperio ejus evaserant . 
ac privatorum studens , fisci commoda non admodum affectans ducensque melius publicas opes a privatis haberi , quam intra unum claustrum reservari . 
He carried this maxim so far , that whenever he gave an entertainment , he was obliged to borrow a service of plate . 
The stern temper of Galerius was cast in a very different mould and while he commanded the esteem of his subjects , he seldom condescended to solicit their affections . 
But these obscure anecdotes are sufficiently refuted by an impartia view of the character and conduct of Diocletian . 
Were the particulars of this conference more consistent with truth and decency , we might still ask how they came to the knowledge of an obscure rhetorician . 
Note This attack upon Lactantius is unfounded . 
Lactantius was so far from having been an obscure rhetorician , that he had taught rhetoric publicly , and with the greatest success , first in Africa , and afterwards in Nicomedia . 
His reputation obtained him the esteem of Constantine , who invited him to his court , and intrusted to him the education of his son Crispus . 
The facts which he relates took place during his own time he cannot be accused of dishonesty or imposture . 
Satis me vixisse arbitrabor et officium hominis implesse si labor meus aliquos homines , ab erroribus iberatos , ad iter coeleste direxerit . 
The eloquence of Lactantius has caused him to be called the Christian Cicero . 
G. Yet no unprejudiced person can read this coarse and particular private conversation of the two emperors , without assenting to the justice of Gibbon's severe sentence . 
But the authorship of the treatise is by no means certain . 
The fame of Lactantius for eloquence as well as for truth , would suffer no loss if it should be adjudged to some more obscure rhetorician . 
Manso , in his Leben Constantins des Grossen , concurs on this point with Gibbon Beylage , iv . 
M. After the elevation of Constantius and Galerius to the rank of Augusti , two new Coesars were required to supply their place , and to complete the system of the Imperial government . 
It was fixed without consulting the interest or inclination of the princes of the West . 
Each of them had a son who was arrived at the age of manhood , and who might have been deemed the most natural candidates for the vacant honor . 
The first of these was Daza , or , as he was afterwards called , Maximin , whose mother was the sister of Galerius . 
statim Scutarius , continuo Protector , mox Tribunus , postridie Caesar , accepit Orientem . 
Aurelius Victor is too liberal in giving him the whole portion of Diocletian . 
His diligence and fidelity are acknowledged even by Lactantius , de M. P. c . 
These schemes , however , rest only on the very doubtful authority of Lactantius de M. P. c . 
But within less than eighteen months , two unexpected revolutions overturned the ambitious schemes of Galerius . 
The hopes of uniting the western provinces to his empire were disappointed by the elevation of Constantine , whilst Italy and Africa were lost by the successful revolt of Maxentius . 
I. The fame of Constantine has rendered posterity attentive to the most minute circumstances of his life and actions . 
The place of his birth , as well as the condition of his mother Helena , have been the subject , not only of literary , but of national disputes . 
Every hour increased the danger of Constantine , and the anxiety of his father , who , by repeated letters , expressed the warmest desire of embracing his son . 
He transports , however , the kingdom of Coil , the imaginary father of Helena , from Essex to the wall of Antoninus . 
expresses , in a few words , the real truth , and the occasion of the error ex obscuriori matrimonio ejus filius . 
whose authority is oddly enough overlooked by the indefatigable , but partial Tillemont . 
By insisting on the divorce of Helena , Diocletian acknowledged her marriage . 
There are three opinions with regard to the place of Constantine's birth . 
Our English antiquarians were used to dwell with rapture on the words of his panegyrist , Britannias illic oriendo nobiles fecisti . 
But this celebrated passage may be referred with as much propriety to the accession , as to the nativity of Constantine . 
But in the wandering life of a soldier , the place of his marriage , and the places where his children are born , have very little connection with each other . 
The claim of Naissus is supported by the anonymous writer , published at the end of Ammianus , p . 
who flourished under the reign of Constantine himself . 
and with a monstrous lion . 
See Praxagoras apud Photium , p . 
Praxagoras , an Athenian philosopher , had written a life of Constantine in two books , which are now lost . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
The former tells a very foolish story , that Constantine caused all the post horses which he had used to be hamstrung . 
Such a bloody execution , without preventing a pursuit , would have scattered suspicions , and might have stopped his journey . 
Note Zosimus is not the only writer who tells this story . 
The younger Victor confirms it . 
Ad frustrandos insequentes , publica jumenta , quaqua iter ageret , interficiens . 
Aurelius Victor de Caesar says the same thing , G. as also the Anonymus Valesii . 
, observes that the story has been exaggerated he took this precaution during the first stage of his journey . 
, and Lactantius de M. P. c . 
suppose , with less accuracy , that he found his father on his death bed . 
The British expedition , and an easy victory over the barbarians of Caledonia , were the last exploits of the reign of Constantius . 
His death was immediately succeeded by the elevation of Constantine . 
The ideas of inheritance and succession are so very familiar , that the generality of mankind consider them as founded , not only in reason , but in nature itself . 
The throne was the object of his desires and had he been less actuated by ambition , it was his only means of safety . 
He was well acquainted with the character and sentiments of Galerius , and sufficiently apprised , that if he wished to live he must determine to reign . 
Erich ? Alamannorum Rege , auxilii gratia Constantium comitato , imperium capit . 
This is perhaps the first instance of a barbarian king , who assisted the Roman arms with an independent body of his own subjects . 
The practice grew familiar and at last became fatal . 
ventures to affirm in the presence of Constantine , that he put spurs to his horse , and tried , but in vain , to escape from the hands of his soldiers . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
gives a rhetorical turn to the whole transaction . 
His claim of superior merit had been allowed and ratified by the dying emperor . 
Of the three sisters of Constantine , Constantia married the emperor Licinius , Anastasia the Caesar Bassianus , and Eutropia the consul Nepotianus . 
The three brothers were , Dalmatius , Julius Constantius , and Annibalianus , of whom we shall have occasion to speak hereafter . 
The conquest of Macedonia , as we have already observed , had delivered the Roman people from the weight of personal taxes . 
The name , as well as the situation , of Maxentius determined in his favor the popular enthusiasm . 
The six princes are all mentioned , Diocletian and Maximian as the senior Augusti , and fathers of the emperors . 
They jointly dedicate , for the use of their own Romans , this magnificent edifice . 
The architects have delineated the ruins of these Thermoe , and the antiquarians , particularly Donatus and Nardini , have ascertained the ground which they covered . 
One of the great rooms is now the Carthusian church and even one of the porter's lodges is sufficient to form another church , which belongs to the Feuillans . 
See Lactantius de M. P. c . 
dates from this period the abolition of the Jus Italicum . 
He quotes a remarkable passage of Aurelius Victor . 
Hinc denique parti Italiae invec tum tributorum ingens malum . 
M. Maxentius was the son of the emperor Maximian , and he had married the daughter of Galerius . 
The policy of Galerius preferred such associates as would never disgrace the choice , nor dispute the commands , of their benefactor . 
At the request of his son and of the senate , he condescended to reassume the purple . 
His ancient dignity , his experience , and his fame in arms , added strength as well as reputation to the party of Maxentius . 
, and Lactantius de M. P. c . 
Anulinus , the Praetorian praefect , declared himself in favor of Maxentius , and drew after him the most considerable part of the troops , accustomed to obey his commands . 
Here he might for some time have been safe . 
The fortifications of Ravenna were able to resist the attempts , and the morasses that surrounded the town , were sufficient to prevent the approach , of the Italian army . 
The treachery which he had experienced disposed that unhappy prince to distrust the most sincere of his friends and adherents . 
He was at first received with humanity and treated with respect . 
Maximian conducted the captive emperor to Rome , and gave him the most solemn assurances that he had secured his life by the resignation of the purple . 
But Severus , could obtain only an easy death and an Imperial funeral . 
I have endeavored to extract from them a consistent and probable narration . 
Note Manso justly observes that two totally different narratives might be formed , almost upon equal authority . 
M. Chapter XIV Six Emperors At The Same Time , Reunion Of The Empire . 
By consenting to receive that honor from Maximian , Constantine seemed to embrace the cause of Rome and of the senate but his professions were ambiguous , and his assistance slow and ineffectual . 
The sixth Panegyric was pronounced to celebrate the elevation of Constantine but the prudent orator avoids the mention either of Galerius or of Maxentius . 
He introduces only one slight allusion to the actual troubles , and to the majesty of Rome . 
Note Compare Manso , Beylage , iv . 
Gibbon's account is at least as probable as that of his critic . 
M. The importance of the occasion called for the presence and abilities of Galerius . 
But the skill of Maximian had concerted a prudent system of defence . 
The wealth which the Romans defended against his rapacious tyranny , they freely contributed for his destruction . 
A contemporary writer assigns two other causes for the failure of the expedition but they are both of such a nature , that a cautious historian will scarcely venture to adopt them . 
We are likewise informed that the legions themselves were struck with horror and remorse , and that those pious sons of the republic refused to violate the sanctity of their venerable parent . 
These are indeed the expressions of a poet but of a poet who has been distinguished , and even censured , for his strict adherence to the truth of history . 
With regard to this negotiation , see the fragments of an anonymous historian , published by Valesius at the end of his edition of Ammianus Marcellinus , p . 
These fragments have furnished with several curious , and , as it should seem , authentic anecdotes . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
The former of these reasons is probably taken from Virgil's Shepherd Illam ego huic notra similem , Meliboee , putavi , c . 
Lactantius delights in these poetical illusions . 
Castra super Tusci si ponere Tybridis undas Hesperios audax veniam metator in agros . 
Tu quoscunque voles in planum effundere muros , His aries actus disperget saxa lacertis Illa licet penitus tolli quam jusseris urbem Roma sit . 
The legions of Galerius exhibited a very melancholy proof of their disposition , by the ravages which they committed in their retreat . 
During the whole march , Maxentius hung on their rear , but he very prudently declined a general engagement with those brave and desperate veterans . 
But the actions of Constantine were guided by reason , and not by resentment . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
The latter , that Constantine , in his interview with Maximian , had promised to declare war against Galerius . 
The mind of Galerius was the most susceptible of the sterner passions , but it was not , however , incapable of a sincere and lasting friendship . 
Licinius , whose manners as well as character , were not unlike his own , seems to have engaged both his affection and esteem . 
Their intimacy had commenced in the happier period perhaps of their youth and obscurity . 
For the first , and indeed for the last time , the Roman world was administered by six emperors . 
In the West , Constantine and Maxentius affected to reverence their father Maximian . 
In the East , Licinius and Maximin honored with more real consideration their benefactor Galerius . 
has proved that Licinius , without passing through the intermediate rank of Caesar , was declared Augustus , the th of November , A. D. , after the return of Galerius from Italy . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
the new title of sons of the Augusti . 
But when Maximin acquainted him that he had been saluted Augustus by the army , Galerius was obliged to acknowledge him as well as Constantine , as equal associates in the Imperial dignity . 
When Maximian had reluctantly abdicated the empire , the venal orators of the times applauded his philosophic moderation . 
But it was impossible that minds like those of Maximian and his son could long possess in harmony an undivided power . 
The cause was solemnly pleaded before the Praetorian guards and those troops , who dreaded the severity of the old emperor , espoused the party of Maxentius . 
The life and freedom of Maximian were , however , respected , and he retired from Italy into Illyricum , affecting to lament his past conduct , and secretly contriving new mischiefs . 
He was received with respect by that artful prince , and with the appearance of filial tenderness by the empress Fausta . 
That he might remove every suspicion , he resigned the Imperial purple a second time , professing himself at length convinced of the vanity of greatness and ambition . 
Had he persevered in this resolution , he might have ended his life with less dignity , indeed , than in his first retirement , yet , however , with comfort and reputation . 
Maximian either craftily invented , or easily credited , a vain report of the death of Constantine . 
Before he could establish his authority , or finish the negotiation which he appears to have entered into with his son Maxentius , the celerity of Constantine defeated all his hopes . 
During the whole of this melancholy transaction , it appears that Fausta sacrificed the sentiments of nature to her conjugal duties . 
Audi doloris nostri liberam vocem , c . 
The whole passage is imagined with artful flattery , and expressed with an easy flow of eloquence . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
A report was spread , that Maxentius was the son of some obscure Syrian , and had been substituted by the wife of Maximian as her own child . 
See Aurelius Victor , Anonym . 
Ab urbe pulsum , ab Italia fugatum , ab Illyrico repudiatum , provinciis , tuis copiis , tuo palatio recepisti . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
The latter of these has undoubtedly represented the whole affair in the most favorable light for his sovereign . 
and copied by the moderns , are destitute of any historical foundation . 
Note Yet some pagan authors relate and confirm them . 
Aurelius Victor speaking of Maximin , says , cumque specie officii , dolis compositis , Constantinum generum tentaret acerbe , jure tamen interierat . 
composito tamquam a filio esset expulsus , ut Constantino genero jun geretur moliens tamen Constantinum , reperta occasione , interficere , dedit justissimo exitu . 
G. These writers hardly confirm more than Gibbon admits he denies the repeated clemency of Constantine , and the reiterated treasons of Maximian Compare Manso , p . 
His death was occasioned by a very painful and lingering disorder . 
They were persuaded , however , to desist from the former design , and to agree in the latter . 
The provinces of Asia fell to the share of Maximin , and those of Europe augmented the portion of Licinius . 
The deaths of Maximian and of Galerius reduced the number of emperors to four . 
I should therefore suspect that Victor has confounded the Lake Pelso with the Volocean marshes , or , as they are now called , the Lake Sabaton . 
in length , and two in breadth . 
See Severini Pannonia , l . 
describe the symptoms and progress of his disorder with singular accuracy and apparent pleasure . 
concerning the last illness of Philip II . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
Zosimus is less exact , and evidently confounds Maximian with Maximin . 
Among so many crimes and misfortunes , occasioned by the passions of the Roman princes , there is some pleasure in discovering a single action which may be ascribed to their virtue . 
Yet even this indulgence affords the most unquestionable proof of the public misery . 
But even those maxims were less the effect of choice than of necessity . 
And if we except the death of Maximian , the reign of Constantine in Gaul seems to have been the most innocent and even virtuous period of his life . 
The provinces were protected by his presence from the inroads of the barbarians , who either dreaded or experienced his active valor . 
, in which Eumenius displays , in the presence of Constantine , the misery and the gratitude of the city of Autun . 
A great number of the French youth were likewise exposed to the same cruel and ignominious death . 
Yet the panegyric assumes something of an apologetic tone . 
Te vero Constantine , quantumlibet oderint hoses , dum perhorrescant . 
Haec est enim vera virtus , ut non ament et quiescant . 
The orator appeals to the ancient ideal of the republic . 
M. The virtues of Constantine were rendered more illustrious by the vices of Maxentius . 
He had the good fortune to suppress a slight rebellion in Africa . 
The governor and a few adherents had been guilty the province suffered for their crime . 
The flourishing cities of Cirtha and Carthage , and the whole extent of that fertile country , were wasted by fire and sword . 
The abuse of victory was followed by the abuse of law and justice . 
So signal a victory was celebrated by a magnificent triumph , and Maxentius exposed to the eyes of the people the spoils and captives of a Roman province . 
The state of the capital was no less deserving of compassion than that of Africa . 
The wealth of Rome supplied an inexhaustible fund for his vain and prodigal expenses , and the ministers of his revenue were skilled in the arts of rapine . 
The lives of the senators were exposed to his jealous suspicions , the dishonor of their wives and daughters heightened the gratification of his sensual passions . 
The soldiers were the only order of men whom he appeared to respect , or studied to please . 
Yet his pride was equal to his other vices . 
Rome , which had so long regretted the absence , lamented , during the six years of his reign , the presence of her sovereign . 
accuses him of every kind of cruelty and profligacy . 
The passage of Aurelius Victor should be read in the following manner Primus instituto pessimo , munerum specie , Patres Oratores que pecuniam conferre prodigenti sibi cogeret . 
The virtuous matron who stabbed herself to escape the violence of Maxentius , was a Christian , wife to the praefect of the city , and her name was Sophronia . 
It still remains a question among the casuists , whether , on such occasions , suicide is justifiable . 
Praetorianis caedem vulgi quondam annueret , is the vague expression of Aurelius Victor . 
a lively description of the indolence and vain pride of Maxentius . 
But the tyrant of Italy rashly ventured to provoke a formidable enemy , whose ambition had been hitherto restrained by considerations of prudence , rather than by principles of justice . 
After the death of Maximian , his titles , according to the established custom , had been erased , and his statues thrown down with ignominy . 
He had deliberated with caution , he acted with vigor . 
Omnibus fere tuis Comitibus et Ducibus non solum tacite mussantibus , sed etiam aperte timentibus contra consilia hominum , contra Haruspicum monita , ipse per temet liberandae arbis tempus venisse sentires . 
but those modern Greeks had the opportunity of consulting many writers which have since been lost , among which we may reckon the life of Constantine by Praxagoras . 
has made a short extract from that historical work . 
The enterprise was as full of danger as of glory and the unsuccessful event of two former invasions was sufficient to inspire the most serious apprehensions . 
Forty thousand Moors and Carthaginians had been raised since the reduction of Africa . 
Even Sicily furnished its proportion of troops and the armies of Maxentius amounted to one hundred and seventy thousand foot and eighteen thousand horse . 
The wealth of Italy supplied the expenses of the war and the adjacent provinces were exhausted , to form immense magazines of corn and every other kind of provisions . 
At the head of about forty thousand soldiers he marched to encounter an enemy whose numbers were at least four times superior to his own . 
But the armies of Rome , placed at a secure distance from danger , were enervated by indulgence and luxury . 
There appeared the same difference between the leaders as between the armies . 
Caprice or flattery had tempted Maxentius with the hopes of conquest but these aspiring hopes soon gave way to the habits of pleasure and the consciousness of his inexperience . 
The intrepid mind of Constantine had been trained from his earliest youth to war , to action , and to military command . 
has given us this curious account of the forces on both sides . 
that the war was carried on by sea as well as by land and that the fleet of Constantine took possession of Sardinia , Corsica , and the ports of Italy . 
Chapter XIV Six Emperors At The Same Time , Reunion Of The Empire . 
The Alps were then guarded by nature , they are now fortified by art . 
But in the course of the intermediate period , the generals , who have attempted the passage , have seldom experienced any difficulty or resistance . 
The flames were extinguished by the care of Constantine , and the remains of Susa preserved from total destruction . 
About forty miles from thence , a more severe contest awaited him . 
A numerous army of Italians was assembled under the lieutenants of Maxentius , in the plains of Turin . 
Its principal strength consisted in a species of heavy cavalry , which the Romans , since the decline of their discipline , had borrowed from the nations of the East . 
The horses , as well as the men , were clothed in complete armor , the joints of which were artfully adapted to the motions of their bodies . 
They might , perhaps , have succeeded in their design , had not their experienced adversary embraced the same method of defence , which in similar circumstances had been practised by Aurelian . 
The skilful evolutions of Constantine divided and baffled this massy column of cavalry . 
The troops of Maxentius fled in confusion towards Turin and as the gates of the city were shut against them , very few escaped the sword of the victorious pursuers . 
By this important service , Turin deserved to experience the clemency and even favor of the conqueror . 
The three principal passages of the Alps between Gaul and Italy , are those of Mount St . 
Bernard , Mount Cenis , and Mount Genevre . 
and M. d'Anville have led him over Mount Genevre . 
Observations sur l'Italie , tom . 
Cramer and Wickham has clearly shown that the Little St . 
Bernard must claim the honor of Hannibal's passage . 
has added some sensible corrections re Hannibal's march to the Alps . 
M La Brunette near Suse , Demont , Exiles , Fenestrelles , Coni , c . 
His description of the roads over the Alps is clear , lively , and accurate . 
Zosimus as well as Eusebius hasten from the passage of the Alps to the decisive action near Rome . 
We must apply to the two Panegyrics for the intermediate actions of Constantine . 
Ruricius Pompeianus , a general distinguished by his valor and ability , had under his command the city of Verona , and all the troops that were stationed in the province of Venetia . 
The necessity , the importance , and the difficulties of the siege of Verona , immediately presented themselves to the sagacious mind of Constantine . 
He then encompassed Verona with strong lines , pushed his attacks with prudent vigor , and repelled a desperate sally of Pompeianus . 
With indefatigable diligence he soon collected an army sufficient either to meet Constantine in the field , or to attack him if he obstinately remained within his lines . 
The return of light displayed the victory of Constantine , and a field of carnage covered with many thousands of the vanquished Italians . 
Their general , Pompeianus , was found among the slain Verona immediately surrendered at discretion , and the garrison was made prisoners of war . 
The Marquis Maffei has examined the siege and battle of Verona with that degree of attention and accuracy which was due to a memorable action that happened in his native country . 
The fortifications of that city , constructed by Gallienus , were less extensive than the modern walls , and the amphitheatre was not included within their circumference . 
See Verona Illustrata , part i . 
Pleasure was still the only business of Maxentius . 
The resources of Maxentius , both of men and money , were still considerable . 
It was far from the intention of the emperor to lead his troops in person . 
Shame at length supplied the place of courage , and forced him to take the field . 
He was unable to sustain the contempt of the Roman people . 
The circus resounded with their indignant clamors , and they tumultuously besieged the gates of the palace , reproaching the pusillanimity of their indolent sovereign , and celebrating the heroic spirit of Constantine . 
Before Maxentius left Rome , he consulted the Sibylline books . 
Literas calamitatum suarum indices supprimebat . 
Remedia malorum potius quam mala differebat , is the fine censure which Tacitus passes on the supine indolence of Vitellius . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
Illo die hostem Romanorum esse periturum . 
The vanquished became of course the enemy of Rome . 
Their long front filled a very spacious plain , and their deep array reached to the banks of the Tyber , which covered their rear , and forbade their retreat . 
We are informed , and we may believe , that Constantine disposed his troops with consummate skill , and that he chose for himself the post of honor and danger . 
Distinguished by the splendor of his arms , he charged in person the cavalry of his rival and his irresistible attack determined the fortune of the day . 
The cavalry of Maxentius was principally composed either of unwieldy cuirassiers , or of light Moors and Numidians . 
They yielded to the vigor of the Gallic horse , which possessed more activity than the one , more firmness than the other . 
The Praetorians , conscious that their offences were beyond the reach of mercy , were animated by revenge and despair . 
The confusion then became general , and the dismayed troops of Maxentius , pursued by an implacable enemy , rushed by thousands into the deep and rapid stream of the Tyber . 
His body , which had sunk very deep into the mud , was found with some difficulty the next day . 
The former of these orators magnifies the hoards of corn , which Maxentius had collected from Africa and the Islands . 
the Imperial granaries must have been open only to the soldiers . 
tandem urbe in Saxa Rubra , millia ferme novem aegerrime progressus . 
Saxa Rubra was in the neighborhood of the Cremera , a trifling rivulet , illustrated by the valor and glorious death of the three hundred Fabii . 
The post which Maxentius had taken , with the Tyber in his rear is very clearly described by the two Panegyrists , ix . 
Exceptis latrocinii illius primis auctoribus , qui desperata venia ocum quem pugnae sumpserant texere corporibus . 
examines the question , and adduces two manifest allusions to the bridge , from the Life of Constantine by Praxagoras , and from Libanius . 
, and the two Panegyrics , the former of which was pronounced a few months afterwards , afford the clearest notion of this great battle . 
Lactantius , Eusebius , and even the Epitomes , supply several useful hints . 
In the use of victory , Constantine neither deserved the praise of clemency , nor incurred the censure of immoderate rigor . 
Informers were punished and discouraged the innocent , who had suffered under the late tyranny , were recalled from exile , and restored to their estates . 
A general act of oblivion quieted the minds and settled the property of the people , both in Italy and in Africa . 
Games and festivals were instituted to preserve the fame of his victory , and several edifices , raised at the expense of Maxentius , were dedicated to the honor of his successful rival . 
The triumphal arch of Constantine still remains a melancholy proof of the decline of the arts , and a singular testimony of the meanest vanity . 
The difference of times and persons , of actions and characters , was totally disregarded . 
The new ornaments which it was necessary to introduce between the vacancies of ancient sculpture are executed in the rudest and most unskillful manner . 
Omnibus qui labefactari statum ejus poterant cum stirpe deletis . 
contents himself with observing , that Constantine , when he entered Rome , did not imitate the cruel massacres of Cinna , of Marius , or of Sylla . 
Note This may refer to the son or sons of Maxentius . 
M. See the two Panegyrics , and the laws of this and the ensuing year , in the Theodosian Code . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
Maximin , who was confessedly the eldest Caesar , claimed , with some show of reason , the first rank among the Augusti . 
Adhuc cuncta opera quae magnifice construxerat , urbis fanum atque basilicam , Flavii meritis patres sacravere . 
With regard to the theft of Trajan's trophies , consult Flaminius Vacca , apud Montfaucon , Diarium Italicum , p . 
, and l'Antiquite Expliquee of the latter , tom . 
The final abolition of the Praetorian guards was a measure of prudence as well as of revenge . 
Those haughty troops , whose numbers and privileges had been restored , and even augmented , by Maxentius , were forever suppressed by Constantine . 
We may observe , that in this last effort to preserve their expiring freedom , the Romans , from the apprehension of a tribute , had raised Maxentius to the throne . 
He exacted that tribute from the senate under the name of a free gift . 
They implored the assistance of Constantine . 
He vanquished the tyrant , and converted the free gift into a perpetual tax . 
The senators , according to the declaration which was required of their property , were divided into several classes . 
Constantine was almost perpetually in motion , to exercise the legions , or to inspect the state of the provinces . 
Praetoriae legiones ac subsidia factionibus aptiora quam urbi Romae , sublata penitus simul arma atque usus indumenti militaris Aurelius Victor . 
mentions this fact as an historian , and it is very pompously celebrated in the ninth Panegyric . 
Ex omnibus provinciis optimates viros Curiae tuae pigneraveris ut Senatus dignitas . 
ex totius Orbis flore consisteret . 
The word pigneraveris might almost seem maliciously chosen . 
Concerning the senatorial tax , see Zosimus , l . 
, the second title of the sixth book of the Theodosian Code , with Godefroy's Commentary , and Memoires de l'Academic des Inscriptions , tom . 
From the Theodosian Code , we may now begin to trace the motions of the emperors but the dates both of time and place have frequently been altered by the carelessness of transcribers . 
Before Constantine marched into Italy , he had secured the friendship , or at least the neutrality , of Licinius , the Illyrian emperor . 
In the midst of the public festivity they were suddenly obliged to take leave of each other . 
An inroad of the Franks summoned Constantine to the Rhime , and the hostile approach of the sovereign of Asia demanded the immediate presence of Licinius . 
Maximin had been the secret ally of Maxentius , and without being discouraged by his fate , he resolved to try the fortune of a civil war . 
He moved out of Syria , towards the frontiers of Bithynia , in the depth of winter . 
Byzantium surrendered to the power of Maximin , after a siege of eleven days . 
After a fruitless negotiation , in which the two princes attempted to seduce the fidelity of each other's adherents , they had recourse to arms . 
His military skill , and the firmness of his troops , restored the day , and obtained a decisive victory . 
The incredible speed which Maximin exerted in his flight is much more celebrated than his prowess in the battle . 
Twenty four hours afterwards he was seen , pale , trembling , and without his Imperial ornaments , at Nicomedia , one hundred and sixty miles from the place of his defeat . 
But he survived his misfortune only three or four months . 
His death , which happened at Tarsus , was variously ascribed to despair , to poison , and to the divine justice . 
As Maximin was alike destitute of abilities and of virtue , he was lamented neither by the people nor by the soldiers . 
The provinces of the East , delivered from the terrors of civil war , cheerfully acknowledged the authority of Licinius . 
observes , that before the war the sister of Constantine had been betrothed to Licinius . 
ascribing them to the miraculous interposition of Heaven . 
Licinius at that time was one of the protectors of the church . 
The vanquished emperor left behind him two children , a boy of about eight , and a girl of about seven , years old . 
Their inoffensive age might have excited compassion but the compassion of Licinius was a very feeble resource , nor did it restrain him from extinguishing the name and memory of his adversary . 
The death of Severianus will admit of less excuse , as it was dictated neither by revenge nor by policy . 
But the execution of Candidianus was an act of the blackest cruelty and ingratitude . 
He was the natural son of Galerius , the friend and benefactor of Licinius . 
To these innocent and illustrious victims of his tyranny , we must add the wife and daughter of the emperor Diocletian . 
When that prince conferred on Galerius the title of Caesar , he had given him in marriage his daughter Valeria , whose melancholy adventures might furnish a very singular subject for tragedy . 
She had fulfilled and even surpassed the duties of a wife . 
After the death of Galerius , her ample possessions provoked the avarice , and her personal attractions excited the desires , of his successor , Maximin . 
He had a wife still alive but divorce was permitted by the Roman law , and the fierce passions of the tyrant demanded an immediate gratification . 
The answer of Valeria was such as became the daughter and widow of emperors but it was tempered by the prudence which her defenceless condition compelled her to observe . 
She ventured to declare , that she could place very little confidence in the professions of a man whose cruel inconstancy was capable of repudiating a faithful and affectionate wife . 
The death of Maximin seemed to assure the empresses of a favorable alteration in their fortune . 
They were at length discovered at Thessalonica and as the sentence of their death was already pronounced , they were immediately beheaded , and their bodies thrown into the sea . 
The people gazed on the melancholy spectacle but their grief and indignation were suppressed by the terrors of a military guard . 
Such was the unworthy fate of the wife and daughter of Diocletian . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
Aurelius Victor touches on the different conduct of Licinius , and of Constantine , in the use of victory . 
The sensual appetites of Maximin were gratified at the expense of his subjects . 
His eunuchs , who forced away wives and virgins , examined their naked charms with anxious curiosity , lest any part of their body should be found unworthy of the royal embraces . 
Coyness and disdain were considered as treason , and the obstinate fair one was condemned to be drowned . 
A custom was gradually introduced , that no person should marry a wife without the permission of the emperor , ut ipse in omnibus nuptiis praegustator esset . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
We are not sufficiently acquainted with the history of these times to point out the person who was employed . 
Valeria quoque per varias provincias quindecim mensibus plebeio cultu pervagata . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
There is some doubt whether we should compute the fifteen months from the moment of her exile , or from that of her escape . 
The expression of parvagata seems to denote the latter but in that case we must suppose that the treatise of Lactantius was written after the first civil war between Licinius and Constantine . 
Ita illis pudicitia et conditio exitio fuit . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
He relates the misfortunes of the innocent wife and daughter of Discletian with a very natural mixture of pity and exultation . 
The Roman world was now divided between Constantine and Licinius , the former of whom was master of the West , and the latter of the East . 
And yet a year had scarcely elapsed after the death of Maximin , before the victorious emperors turned their arms against each other . 
Constantine had lately given his sister Anastasia in marriage to Bassianus , a man of a considerable family and fortune , and had elevated his new kinsman to the rank of Caesar . 
According to the system of government instituted by Diocletian , Italy , and perhaps Africa , were designed for his department in the empire . 
The curious reader , who consults the Valesian fragment , p . 
, will probably accuse me of giving a bold and licentious paraphrase but if he considers it with attention , he will acknowledge that my interpretation is probable and consistent . 
As it lay to the north east of the Julian Alps , that important territory became a natural object of dispute between the sovereigns of Italy and of Illyricum . 
The first battle was fought near Cibalis , a city of Pannonia , situated on the River Save , about fifty miles above Sirmium . 
The emperor of the West had only twenty thousand , and the sovereign of the East no more than five and thirty thousand , men . 
The inferiority of number was , however , compensated by the advantage of the ground . 
He pursued his success , and advanced into the plain . 
But the veteran legions of Illyricum rallied under the standard of a leader who had been trained to arms in the school of Probus and Diocletian . 
His diligence preserved his wife , his son , and his treasures , which he had deposited at Sirmium . 
Licinius passed through that city , and breaking down the bridge on the Save , hastened to collect a new army in Dacia and Thrace . 
In his flight he bestowed the precarious title of Caesar on Valens , his general of the Illyrian frontier . 
was situated about fifty miles from Sirmium , the capital of Illyricum , and about one hundred from Taurunum , or Belgrade , and the conflux of the Danube and the Save . 
The Roman garrisons and cities on those rivers are finely illustrated by M. d'Anville in a memoir inserted in l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
gives a very particular account of this battle but the descriptions of Zosimus are rhetorical rather than military Chapter XIV Six Emperors At The Same Time , Reunion Of The Empire . 
The plain of Mardia in Thrace was the theatre of a second battle no less obstinate and bloody than the former . 
The loss of two battles , and of his bravest veterans , reduced the fierce spirit of Licinius to sue for peace . 
Constantine received the mention of Valens with indignation and contempt . 
The abdication of Valens is the first article of the treaty . 
It was necessary to accept this humiliating condition and the unhappy Valens , after a reign of a few days , was deprived of the purple and of his life . 
As soon as this obstacle was removed , the tranquillity of the Roman world was easily restored . 
The successive defeats of Licinius had ruined his forces , but they had displayed his courage and abilities . 
It was stipulated by the same treaty , that three royal youths , the sons of emperors , should be called to the hopes of the succession . 
Crispus and the young Constantine were soon afterwards declared Caesars in the West , while the younger Licinius was invested with the same dignity in the East . 
In this double proportion of honors , the conqueror asserted the superiority of his arms and power . 
The Epitomes furnish some circumstances but they frequently confound the two wars between Licinius and Constantine . 
But in the best authors sometimes signifies a husband , sometimes a father in law , and sometimes a kinsman in general . 
Four of these writers affirm that the promotion of the Caesars was an article of the treaty . 
As a very regular series of the Imperial laws commences about this period , it would not be difficult to transcribe the civil regulations which employed the leisure of Constantine . 
But the most important of his institutions are intimately connected with the new system of policy and religion , which was not perfectly established till the last and peaceful years of his reign . 
The horrid practice , so familiar to the ancients , of exposing or murdering their new born infants , was become every day more frequent in the provinces , and especially in Italy . 
But the promise was too liberal , and the provision too vague , to effect any general or permanent benefit . 
The law , though it may merit some praise , served rather to display than to alleviate the public distress . 
The virgin's declaration , that she had been carried away with her own consent , instead of saving her lover , exposed her to share his fate . 
As the crime was of a public kind , the accusation was permitted even to strangers . 
The commencement of the action was not limited to any term of years , and the consequences of the sentence were extended to the innocent offspring of such an irregular union . 
But whenever the offence inspires less horror than the punishment , the rigor of penal law is obliged to give way to the common feelings of mankind . 
It is scarcely possible to observe a more decisive symptom of weakness , either in the character of the prince , or in the constitution of the government . 
This explanation appears to me little probable . 
Godefroy has made a much more happy conjecture , supported by all the historical circumstances which relate to this edict . 
It was published the th of May , A. D. . 
at Naissus in Pannonia , the birthplace of Constantine . 
The th of October , in that year , Constantine gained the victory of Cibalis over Licinius . 
He was yet uncertain as to the fate of the war the Christians , no doubt , whom he favored , had prophesied his victory . 
he had dedicated it to Constantine . 
sur les Finances Romaines The edict for Africa was not published till of that we may say in truth that its origin was in the misery of the times . 
Africa had suffered much from the cruelty of Maxentius . 
Constantine says expressly , that he had learned that parents , under the pressure of distress , were there selling their children . 
Omnia foris placita , domi prospera , annonae ubertate , fructuum copia , c . 
This oration of Nazarius was pronounced on the day of the Quinquennalia of the Caesars , the st of March , A. D. . 
See the edict of Constantine , addressed to the Roman people , in the Theodosian Code , l . 
His son very fairly assigns the true reason of the repeal Na sub specie atrocioris judicii aliqua in ulciscendo crimine dilatio nae ceretur . 
chooses to affirm , that in the reign of this hero , the sword of justice hung idle in the hands of the magistrates . 
and the Theodosian Code , will inform us that this excessive lenity was not owing to the want either of atrocious criminals or of penal laws . 
The civil administration was sometimes interrupted by the military defence of the empire . 
The emperor himself had assumed the more difficult and important province of the Danube . 
Nor was this advantage sufficient to satisfy the indignation of the emperor . 
He resolved to chastise as well as to repulse the insolent barbarians who had dared to invade the territories of Rome . 
The victory of Crispus over the Alemanni is expressed on some medals . 
Note Other medals are extant , the legends of which commemorate the success of Constantine over the Sarmatians and other barbarous nations , Sarmatia Devicta . 
Martin , note on Le Beau , i . 
M. ! Campona , Old Buda in Hungary Margus , Benonia , Widdin , in Maesia G and M. See Zosimus , l . 
, though the narrative of that historian is neither clear nor consistent . 
mentions the alliance of the Sarmatians with the Carpi and Getae , and points out the several fields of battle . 
It is supposed that the Sarmatian games , celebrated in the month of November , derived their origin from the success of this war . 
Constantine boasts , that he had recovered the province which Trajan had subdued . 
But it is insinuated by Silenus , that the conquests of Constantine were like the gardens of Adonis , which fade and wither almost the moment they appear . 
Jornandes de Rebus Geticis , c . 
I know not whether we may entirely depend on his authority . 
Such an alliance has a very recent air , and scarcely is suited to the maxims of the beginning of the fourth century . 
This passage , however , is taken from a general declamation on the greatness of Constantine , and not from any particular account of the Gothic war . 
In this exalted state of glory , it was impossible that Constantine should any longer endure a partner in the empire . 
But the old emperor , awakened by the approaching danger , deceived the expectations of his friends , as well as of his enemies . 
The fleet was composed of three hundred and fifty galleys of three ranks of oars . 
A hundred and thirty of these were furnished by Egypt and the adjacent coast of Africa . 
The troops of Constantine were ordered to a rendezvous at Thessalonica they amounted to above a hundred and twenty thousand horse and foot . 
Their emperor was satisfied with their martial appearance , and his army contained more soldiers , though fewer men , than that of his eastern competitor . 
But the naval preparations of Constantine were in every respect much inferior to those of Licinius . 
Constantinus tamen , vir ingens , et omnia efficere nitens quae animo praeparasset , simul principatum totius urbis affectans , Licinio bellum intulit . 
The reasons which they have assigned for the first civil war , may , with more propriety , be applied to the second . 
as he now began to style them . 
See the Theodosian Code , l . 
The arsenal in the port of Piraeus had cost the republic a thousand talents , about two hundred and sixteen thousand pounds . 
, and Meursius de Fortuna Attica , c . 
Many days were spent in doubtful and distant skirmishes but at length the obstacles of the passage and of the attack were removed by the intrepid conduct of Constantine . 
The contest was no longer equal . 
His confused multitude of new levies was easily vanquished by the experienced veterans of the West . 
Thirty four thousand men are reported to have been slain . 
in a clear though concise manner . 
Licinius vero circum Hadrianopolin maximo exercitu latera ardui montis impleverat illuc toto agmine Constantinus inflexit . 
Cum bellum terra marique traheretur , quamvis per arduum suis nitentibus , attamen disciplina militari et felicitate , Constantinus Licinu confusum et sine ordine agentem vicit exercitum leviter femore sau ciatus . 
The siege of Byzantium , which was immediately undertaken by Constantine , was attended with great labor and uncertainty . 
The engagement lasted two days and in the evening of the first , the contending fleets , after a considerable and mutual loss , retired into their respective harbors of Europe and Asia . 
As soon as the Hellespont was open , a plentiful convoy of provisions flowed into the camp of Constantine , who had already advanced the operations of the siege . 
He constructed artificial mounds of earth of an equal height with the ramparts of Byzantium . 
The lofty towers which were erected on that foundation galled the besieged with large stones and darts from the military engines , and the battering rams had shaken the walls in several places . 
If Licinius persisted much longer in the defence , he exposed himself to be involved in the ruin of the place . 
The current always sets out of the Hellespont and when it is assisted by a north wind , no vessel can Continuation attempt the passage . 
A south wind renders the force of the current almost imperceptible . 
See Tournefort's Voyage au Levant , Let . 
Some medals seem to intimate , that during his short reign he received the title of Augustus . 
The vigilant emperor did not , however , neglect the last struggles of his antagonist . 
He retired to Nicomedia , rather with the view of gaining some time for negotiation , than with the hope of any effectual defence . 
The behavior of Constantia , and her relation to the contending parties , naturally recalls the remembrance of that virtuous matron who was the sister of Augustus , and the wife of Antony . 
But the temper of mankind was altered , and it was no longer esteemed infamous for a Roman to survive his honor and independence . 
ascribes this decisive victory to the pious prayers of the emperor . 
mentions a body of Gothic auxiliaries , under their chief Aliquaca , who adhered to the party of Licinius . 
Contra religionem sacramenti Thessalonicae privatus occisus est . 
and his evidence is confirmed by Jerome as well as by Zosimus , l . 
The Valesian writer is the only one who mentions the soldiers , and it is Zonaras alone who calls in the assistance of the senate . 
Eusebius prudently slides over this delicate transaction . 
But Sozomen , a century afterwards , ventures to assert the treasonable practices of Licinius . 
See the Theodosian Code , l . 
These edicts of Constantine betray a degree of passion and precipitation very unbecoming the character of a lawgiver . 
The foundation of Constantinople , and the establishment of the Christian religion , were the immediate and memorable consequences of this revolution . 
Chapter XV Progress Of The Christian Religion . 
Part I. The Progress Of The Christian Religion , And The Sentiments , Manners , Numbers , And Condition Of The Primitive Christians . 
In spite of my resolution , Lardner led me to look through the famous fifteenth and sixteenth chapters of Gibbon . 
I could not lay them down without finishing them . 
The causes assigned , in the fifteenth chapter , for the diffusion of Christianity , must , no doubt , have contributed to it materially but I doubt whether he saw them all . 
Perhaps those which he enumerates are among the most obvious . 
They might all be safely adopted by a Christian writer , with some change in the language and manner . 
Mackintosh see Life , i . 
M. A candid but rational inquiry into the progress and establishment of Christianity may be considered as a very essential part of the history of the Roman empire . 
Nor was the influence of Christianity confined to the period or to the limits of the Roman empire . 
But this inquiry , however useful or entertaining , is attended with two peculiar difficulties . 
The scanty and suspicious materials of ecclesiastical history seldom enable us to dispel the dark cloud that hangs over the first age of the church . 
The theologian may indulge the pleasing task of describing Religion as she descended from Heaven , arrayed in her native purity . 
A more melancholy duty is imposed on the historian . 
He must discover the inevitable mixture of error and corruption , which she contracted in a long residence upon earth , among a weak and degenerate race of beings . 
M. Our curiosity is naturally prompted to inquire by what means the Christian faith obtained so remarkable a victory over the established religions of the earth . 
The doctrine of a future life , improved by every additional circumstance which could give weight and efficacy to that important truth . 
The miraculous powers ascribed to the primitive church . 
The pure and austere morals of the Christians . 
V. The union and discipline of the Christian republic , which gradually formed an independent and increasing state in the heart of the Roman empire . 
You deduce it from the Jewish religion I would refer it to a more adequate and a more obvious source , a full persuasion of the truth of Christianity . 
A single people refused to join in the common intercourse of mankind . 
According to the maxims of universal toleration , the Romans protected a superstition which they despised . 
Their attachment to the law of Moses was equal to their detestation of foreign religions . 
The current of zeal and devotion , as it was contracted into a narrow channel , ran with the strength , and sometimes with the fury , of a torrent . 
This facility has not always prevented intolerance , which seems inherent in the religious spirit , when armed with authority . 
The separation of the ecclesiastical and civil power , appears to be the only means of at once maintaining religion and tolerance but this is a very modern notion . 
The passions , which mingle themselves with opinions , made the Pagans very often intolerant and persecutors witness the Persians , the Egyptians even the Greeks and Romans . 
Cambyses , conqueror of the Egyptians , condemned to death the magistrates of Memphis , because they had offered divine honors to their god . 
Not content with this intolerance , he sent an army to reduce the Ammonians to slavery , and to set on fire the temple in which Jupiter delivered his oracles . 
Xerxes , during his invasion of Greece , acted on the same principles l c destroyed all the temples of Greece and Ionia , except that of Ephesus . 
They thought themselves defiled when they had drunk from the same cup or eaten at the same table with a man of a different belief from their own . 
Juvenal , in his th Satire , describes the sanguinary conflict between the inhabitants of Ombos and of Tentyra , from religious animosity . 
The fury was carried so far , that the conquerors tore and devoured the quivering limbs of the conquered . 
Ardet adhuc Ombos et Tentyra , summus utrinque Inde furor vulgo , quod numina vicinorum Odit uterque locus quum solos credat habendos Esse Deos quos ipse colit . 
Let us not seek our proofs of intolerance so far off . 
Athens , the polite and learned Athens , will supply us with sufficient examples . 
Every citizen made a public and solemn vow to conform to the religion of his country , to defend it , and to cause it to be respected . 
An express law severely punished all discourses against the gods , and a rigid decree ordered the denunciation of all who should deny their existence . 
The practice was in unison with the severity of the law . 
these facts attest too loudly , to be called in question , the religious intolerance of the most humane and enlightened people in Greece . 
Lettres de quelques Juifs a Mons . 
The laws of Rome were not less express and severe . 
The intolerance of foreign religions reaches , with the Romans , as high as the laws of the twelve tables the prohibitions were afterwards renewed at different times . 
Intolerance did not discontinue under the emperors witness the counsel of Maecenas to Augustus . 
This counsel is so remarkable , that I think it right to insert it entire . 
Honor the gods yourself , says Maecenas to Augustus , in every way according to the usage of your ancestors , and compel others to worship them . 
but because those who introduce new gods engage a multitude of persons in foreign laws and customs . 
From hence arise unions bound by oaths and confederacies , and associations , things dangerous to a monarchy . 
M. Even the laws which the philosophers of Athens and of Rome wrote for their imaginary republics are intolerant . 
Plato does not leave to his citizens freedom of religious worship and Cicero expressly prohibits them from having other gods than those of the state . 
Lettres de quelques Juifs a Mons . 
G. According to M. Guizot's just remarks , religious intolerance will always ally itself with the passions of man , however different those passions may be . 
In the instances quoted above , with the Persians it was the pride of despotism to conquer the gods of a country was the last mark of subjugation . 
With the Egyptians , it was the gross Fetichism of the superstitious populace , and the local jealousy of neighboring towns . 
In Greece , persecution was in general connected with political party in Rome , with the stern supremacy of the law and the interests of the state . 
Gibbon has been mistaken in attributing to the tolerant spirit of Paganism that which arose out of the peculiar circumstances of the times . 
The decay of the old Polytheism , through the progress of reason and intelligence , and the prevalence of philosophical opinions among the higher orders . 
The Roman character , in which the political always predominated over the religious party . 
less important uniformity of religion . 
M. Dum Assyrios penes , Medosque , et Persas Oriens fuit , despectissima pars servientium . 
Tradidit arcano quaecunque volumine Moses , Non monstrare vias cadem nisi sacra colenti , Quaesitum ad fontem solos deducere verpas . 
The letter of this law is not to be found in the present volume of Moses . 
But the wise , the humane Maimonides openly teaches that if an idolater fall into the water , a Jew ought not to save him from instant death . 
See Basnage , Histoire des Juifs , l . 
Note It is diametrically opposed to its spirit and to its letter , see , among other passages , Deut . 
loveth the stranger in giving him food and raiment . 
Love ye , therefore , the stranger for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt . 
The Jew was a bigot , but his religion was not the only source of his bigotry . 
But their numbers were so inconsiderable , and their duration so short , that Josephus has not thought them worthy of his notice . 
See Prideaux's Connection , vol . 
Note The Herodians were probably more of a political party than a religious sect , though Gibbon is most likely right as to their occasional conformity . 
of the Jews , ii . 
M. Cicero pro Flacco , c . 
in favor of the nation in general , or of the Asiatic Jews , speak a different language . 
Augustus left a foundation for a perpetual sacrifice . 
Yet he approved of the neglect which his grandson Caius expressed towards the temple of Jerusalem . 
, and Casaubon's notes on that passage . 
See , in particular , Joseph . 
Note This was during the government of Pontius Pilate . 
Probably in part to avoid this collision , the Roman governor , in general , resided at Caesarea . 
M. Jussi a Caio Caesare , effigiem ejus in templo locare , arma potius sumpsere . 
Philo and Josephus gave a very circumstantial , but a very rhetorical , account of this transaction , which exceedingly perplexed the governor of Syria . 
At the first mention of this idolatrous proposal , King Agrippa fainted away and did not recover his senses until the third day . 
As the protection of Heaven was deservedly withdrawn from the ungrateful race , their faith acquired a proportionable degree of vigor and purity . 
The contemporaries of Moses and Joshua had beheld with careless indifference the most amazing miracles . 
It would be easy , but it would be unbecoming , to justify the complaint of the Deity from the whole tenor of the Mosaic history . 
Note Among a rude and barbarous people , religious impressions are easily made , and are as soon effaced . 
The ignorance which multiplies imaginary wonders , would weaken and destroy the effect of real miracle . 
As to the frequent apostasy of the Jews , their religion was beyond their state of civilization . 
Nor is it uncommon for a people to cling with passionate attachment to that of which , at first , they could not appreciate the value . 
Patriotism and national pride will contend , even to death , for political rights which have been forced upon a reluctant people . 
The divine promises were originally made , and the distinguishing rite of circumcision was enjoined , to a single family . 
They had been commanded to extirpate some of the most idolatrous tribes , and the execution of the divine will had seldom been retarded by the weakness of humanity . 
In the admission of new citizens , that unsocial people was actuated by the selfish vanity of the Greeks , rather than by the generous policy of Rome . 
Yet even in their fallen state , the Jews , still asserting their lofty and exclusive privileges , shunned , instead of courting , the society of strangers . 
They still insisted with inflexible rigor on those parts of the law which it was in their power to practise . 
The painful and even dangerous rite of circumcision was alone capable of repelling a willing proselyte from the door of the synagogue . 
All that relates to the Jewish proselytes has been very ably by Basnage , Hist . 
, the commentators , and a very sensible note in the Universal History , vol . 
It was a popular saying , with regard to the Jews , Nil praeter nubes et coeli numen adorant . 
A second kind of circumcision was inflicted on a Samaritan or Egyptian proselyte . 
The sullen indifference of the Talmudists , with respect to the conversion of strangers , may be seen in Basnage Histoire des Juifs , l . 
Under these circumstances , Christianity offered itself to the world , armed with the strength of the Mosaic law , and delivered from the weight of its fetters . 
The divine authority of Moses and the prophets was admitted , and even established , as the firmest basis of Christianity . 
By his expiatory sacrifice , the imperfect sacrifices of the temple were at once consummated and abolished . 
Chapter XV Progress Of The Christian Religion . 
The enfranchisement of the church from the bonds of the synagogue was a work , however , of some time and of some difficulty . 
These Judaizing Christians seem to have argued with some degree of plausibility from the divine origin of the Mosaic law , and from the immutable perfections of its great Author . 
These arguments were urged with great ingenuity by the Jew Orobio , and refuted with equal ingenuity and candor by the Christian Limborch . 
or account of the dispute between them . 
Grotius de Veritate Religionis Christianae , l . 
he expatiates on the condescension of the apostles . 
The first fifteen bishops of Jerusalem were all circumcised Jews and the congregation over which they presided united the law of Moses with the doctrine of Christ . 
The distant churches very frequently appealed to the authority of their venerable Parent , and relieved her distresses by a liberal contribution of alms . 
The Nazarenes retired from the ruins of Jerusalem to the little town of Pella beyond the Jordan , where that ancient church languished above sixty years in solitude and obscurity . 
The Nazarenes had only one way left to escape the common proscription , and the force of truth was on this occasion assisted by the influence of temporal advantages . 
They elected Marcus for their bishop , a prelate of the race of the Gentiles , and most probably a native either of Italy or of some of the Latin provinces . 
At his persuasion , the most considerable part of the congregation renounced the Mosaic law , in the practice of which they had persevered above a century . 
By this sacrifice of their habits and prejudices , they purchased a free admission into the colony of Hadrian , and more firmly cemented their union with the Catholic church . 
Paene omnes Christum Deum sub legis observatione credebant Sulpicius Severus , ii . 
Mosheim de Rebus Christianis ante Constantinum Magnum , page . 
This is incorrect all the traditions concur in placing the abandonment of the city by the Christians , not only before it was in ruins , but before the seige had commenced . 
During this occasional absence , the bishop and church of Pella still retained the title of Jerusalem . 
In the same manner , the Roman pontiffs resided seventy years at Avignon and the patriarchs of Alexandria have long since transferred their episcopal seat to Cairo . 
and is mentioned by several ecclesiastical writers though some of them too hastily extend this interdiction to the whole country of Palestine . 
has drawn out a very distinct representation of the circumstances and motives of this revolution . 
The more rigorous opinion prevailed , as it was natural to expect , over the milder and an eternal bar of separation was fixed between the disciples of Moses and those of Christ . 
seems to have collected from Eusebius , Jerome , Epiphanius , and other writers , all the principal circumstances that relate to the Nazarenes or Ebionites . 
Some writers have been pleased to create an Ebion , the imaginary author of their sect and name . 
But we can more safely rely on the learned Eusebius than on the vehement Tertullian , or the credulous Epiphanius . 
According to Le Clerc , the Hebrew word Ebjonim may be translated into Latin by that of Pauperes . 
Note The opinion of Le Clerc is generally admitted but Neander has suggested some good reasons for supposing that this term only applied to poverty of condition . 
The obscure history of their tenets and divisions , is clearly and rationally traced in his History of the Church , vol . 
M. See the very curious Dialogue of Justin Martyr with the Jew Tryphon . 
The conference between them was held at Ephesus , in the reign of Antoninus Pius , and about twenty years after the return of the church of Pella to Jerusalem . 
For this date consult the accurate note of Tillemont , Memoires Ecclesiastiques , tom . 
Note Justin Martyr makes an important distinction , which Gibbon has neglected to notice . 
Circumcision had been practised by the most ancient Aethiopians , from motives of health and cleanliness , which seem to be explained in the Recherches Philosophiques sur les Americains , tom . 
While the orthodox church preserved a just medium between excessive veneration and improper contempt for the law of Moses , the various heretics deviated into equal but opposite extremes of error and extravagance . 
From the acknowledged truth of the Jewish religion , the Ebionites had concluded that it could never be abolished . 
From its supposed imperfections , the Gnostics as hastily inferred that it never was instituted by the wisdom of the Deity . 
These objections were eagerly embraced and as petulantly urged by the vain science of the Gnostics . 
The conquest of the land of Canaan , and the extirpation of the unsuspecting natives , they were at a loss how to reconcile with the common notions of humanity and justice . 
In such a character they could discover none of the features of the wise and omnipotent Father of the universe . 
The most learned of the fathers , by a very singular condescension , have imprudently admitted the sophistry of the Gnostics . 
Beausobre , Histoire du Manicheisme , l . 
, has stated their objections , particularly those of Faustus , the adversary of Augustin , with the most learned impartiality . 
On the war law of the Jews , see Hist . 
M. Apud ipsos fides obstinata , misericordia in promptu adversus amnes alios hostile odium . 
Surely Tacitus had seen the Jews with too favorable an eye . 
The perusal of Josephus must have destroyed the antithesis . 
Note Few writers have suspected Tacitus of partiality towards the Jews . 
The whole later history of the Jews illustrates as well their strong feelings of humanity to their brethren , as their hostility to the rest of mankind . 
The character and the position of Josephus with the Roman authorities , must be kept in mind during the perusal of his History . 
has discussed the first chapters of Genesis with too much wit and freedom . 
Burnet apologized for the levity with which he had conducted some of his arguments , by the excuse that he wrote in a learned language for scholars alone , not for the vulgar . 
M The milder Gnostics considered Jehovah , the Creator , as a Being of a mixed nature between God and the Daemon . 
Others confounded him with an evil principle . 
Consult the second century of the general history of Mosheim , which gives a very distinct , though concise , account of their strange opinions on this subject . 
See Hist of Jews , i . 
M. See Beausobre , Hist . 
Augustin were among the allegorists . 
The success of the Gnostics was rapid and extensive . 
They covered Asia and Egypt , established themselves in Rome , and sometimes penetrated into the provinces of the West . 
Though they constantly disturbed the peace , and frequently disgraced the name , of religion , they contributed to assist rather than to retard the progress of Christianity . 
Their faith was insensibly fortified and enlarged , and the church was ultimately benefited by the conquests of its most inveterate enemies . 
Note The assertion of Hegesippus is not so positive it is sufficient to read the whole passage in Eusebius , to see that the former part is modified by the matter . 
Hegesippus adds , that up to this period the church had remained pure and immaculate as a virgin . 
Note The Histoire du Gnosticisme of M. Matter is at once the fairest and most complete account of these sects . 
M. See the catalogues of Irenaeus and Epiphanius . 
It must indeed be allowed , that those writers were inclined to multiply the number of sects which opposed the unity of the church . 
See in Bayle , in the article of Marcion , a curious detail of a dispute on that subject . 
declined , and even refused the honor of Martyrdom . 
Their reasons were singular and abstruse . 
! M. Hahn has restored the Marcionite Gospel with great ingenuity . 
His work is reprinted in Thilo . 
That indefatigable writer , who had consumed his life in the study of the Scriptures , relies for their authenticity on the inspired authority of the church . 
are directly , and as it might seem designedly , pointed against their favorite tenets . 
should choose to employ a vague and doubtful tradition , instead of quoting the certain testimony of the evangelists . 
Note Bishop Pearson has attempted very happily to explain this singularity . 
The first Christians were acquainted with a number of sayings of Jesus Christ , which are not related in our Gospels , and indeed have never been written . 
Ignatius , who had lived with the apostles or their disciples , repeat in other words that which St . 
Luke has related , particularly at a time when , being in prison , he could have the Gospels at hand ? Pearson , Vind Ign . 
Coteler G. Faciunt favos et vespae faciunt ecclesias et Marcionitae , is the strong expression of Tertullian , which I am obliged to quote from memory . 
the Marcionites were very numerous in Italy , Syria , Egypt , Arabia , and Persia . 
Augustin is a memorable instance of this gradual progress from reason to faith . 
He was , during several years , engaged in the Manichaear sect . 
But the established religions of Paganism were seen by the primitive Christians in a much more odious and formidable light . 
It was the universal sentiment both of the church and of heretics , that the daemons were the authors , the patrons , and the objects of idolatry . 
They lurked in the temples , instituted festivals and sacrifices , invented fables , pronounced oracles , and were frequently allowed to perform miracles . 
But the belief of the Christian was accompanied with horror . 
The most trifling mark of respect to the national worship he considered as a direct homage yielded to the daemon , and as an act of rebellion against the majesty of God . 
The unanimous sentiment of the primitive church is very clearly explained by Justin Martyr , Apolog . 
Major , by Athenagoras , Legat . 
, and by Lactantius , Institut . 
alleges the confession of the daemons themselves as often as they were tormented by the Christian exorcists Chapter XV Progress Of The Christian Religion . 
In consequence of this opinion , it was the first but arduous duty of a Christian to preserve himself pure and undefiled by the practice of idolatry . 
The religion of the nations was not merely a speculative doctrine professed in the schools or preached in the temples . 
Even the arts of music and painting , of eloquence and poetry , flowed from the same impure origin . 
Even the common language of Greece and Rome abounded with familiar but impious expressions , which the imprudent Christian might too carelessly utter , or too patiently hear . 
Tertullian has written a most severe treatise against idolatry , to caution his brethren against the hourly danger of incurring that guilt . 
Recogita sylvam , et quantae latitant spinae . 
De Corona Militis , c . 
The Roman senate was always held in a temple or consecrated place . 
Before they entered on business , every senator dropped some wine and frankincense on the altar . 
See Tertullian , De Spectaculis . 
This severe reformer shows no more indulgence to a tragedy of Euripides , than to a combat of gladiators . 
The dress of the actors particularly offends him . 
By the use of the lofty buskin , they impiously strive to add a cubit to their stature . 
The ancient practice of concluding the entertainment with libations , may be found in every classic . 
Socrates and Seneca , in their last moments , made a noble application of this custom . 
Postquam stagnum , calidae aquae introiit , respergens proximos servorum , addita voce , libare se liquorem illum Jovi Liberatori . 
See the elegant but idolatrous hymn of Catullus , on the nuptials of Manlius and Julia . 
are no less accurately described by Virgil , than they are illustrated by his commentator Servius . 
The pile itself was an altar , the flames were fed with the blood of victims , and all the assistants were sprinkled with lustral water . 
Tertullian de Idololatria , c . 
Note The exaggerated and declamatory opinions of Tertullian ought not to be taken as the general sentiment of the early Christians . 
Gibbon has too often allowed himself to consider the peculiar notions of certain Fathers of the Church as inherent in Christianity . 
G. See every part of Montfaucon's Antiquities . 
Even the reverses of the Greek and Roman coins were frequently of an idolatrous nature . 
Here indeed the scruples of the Christian were suspended by a stronger passion . 
Note All this scrupulous nicety is at variance with the decision of St . 
Paul about meat offered to idols , Cor . 
M. Tertullian de Idololatria , c . 
used the familiar expression of Jupiter bless you , the Christian was obliged to protest against the divinity of Jupiter . 
The dangerous temptations which on every side lurked in ambush to surprise the unguarded believer , assailed him with redoubled violence on the days of solemn festivals . 
So artfully were they framed and disposed throughout the year , that superstition always wore the appearance of pleasure , and often of virtue . 
Some idea may be conceived of the abhorrence of the Christians for such impious ceremonies , by the scrupulous delicacy which they displayed on a much less alarming occasion . 
This innocent and elegant practice might perhaps have been tolerated as a mere civil institution . 
Consult the most labored work of Ovid , his imperfect Fasti . 
He finished no more than the first six months of the year . 
The compilation of Macrobius is called the Saturnalia , but it is only a small part of the first book that bears any relation to the title . 
it is evident , notwithstanding the wishes of M. de Tillemont , that Tertullian composed his treatise De Corona long before he was engaged in the errors of the Montanists . 
See Memoires Ecclesiastiques , tom . 
Solus libero capite , ornamento in manu otioso . 
G Note Tertullian does not expressly name the two emperors , Severus and Caracalla he speaks only of two emperors , and of a long peace which the church had enjoyed . 
G. The state of Tertullian's opinions at the particular period is almost an idle question . 
The fiery African is not at any time to be considered a fair representative of Christianity . 
M. Such was the anxious diligence which was required to guard the chastity of the gospel from the infectious breath of idolatry . 
The superstitious observances of public or private rites were carelessly practised , from education and habit , by the followers of the established religion . 
But as often as they occurred , they afforded the Christians an opportunity of declaring and confirming their zealous opposition . 
The writings of Cicero represent in the most lively colors the ignorance , the errors , and the uncertainty of the ancient philosophers with regard to the immortality of the soul . 
With this favorable prepossession they summoned to their aid the science , or rather the language , of Metaphysics . 
The preexistence of human souls , so far at least as that doctrine is compatible with religion , was adopted by many of the Greek and Latin fathers . 
Esse aliquid manes , et subterranea regna , Nec pueri credunt , nisi qui nondum aeree lavantae . 
But we may perceive several defects inherent to the popular religions of Greece and Rome , which rendered them very unequal to so arduous a task . 
The general system of their mythology was unsupported by any solid proofs and the wisest among the Pagans had already disclaimed its usurped authority . 
The doctrine of a future state was scarcely considered among the devout polytheists of Greece and Rome as a fundamental article of faith . 
The providence of the gods , as it related to public communities rather than to private individuals , was principally displayed on the visible theatre of the present world . 
The petitions which were offered on the altars of Jupiter or Apollo , expressed the anxiety of their worshippers for temporal happiness , and their ignorance or indifference concerning a future life . 
The xith book of the Odyssey gives a very dreary and incoherent account of the infernal shades . 
Pindar and Virgil have embellished the picture but even those poets , though more correct than their great model , are guilty of very strange inconsistencies . 
See Bayle , Responses aux Questions d'un Provincial , part iii . 
See xvith epistle of the first book of Horace , the xiiith Satire of Juvenal , and the iid Satire of Persius these popular discourses express the sentiment and language of the multitude . 
If we confine ourselves to the Gauls , we may observe , that they intrusted , not only their lives , but even their money , to the security of another world . 
quos , memoria proditum est pecunias montuas , quae his apud inferos redderentur , dare solitos . 
The same custom is more darkly insinuated by Mela , l . 
The right reverend author of the Divine Legation of Moses as signs a very curious reason for the omission , and most ingeniously retorts it on the unbelievers . 
Modern writers have accounted in various ways for the silence of the Hebrew legislator on the immortality of the soul . 
See Michaelis , Laws of Moses , art . 
and Syntagma Commentationum , p . 
M. Guizot adds , the ingenious conjecture of a philosophic theologian , which approximates to an opinion long entertained by the Editor . 
His primary object was to establish a firm theocracy , to make his people the conservators of the doctrine of the Divine Unity , the basis upon which Christianity was hereafter to rest . 
He carefully excluded everything which could obscure or weaken that doctrine . 
Other nations had strangely abused their notions on the immortality of the soul Moses wished to prevent this abuse hence he forbade the Jews from consulting necromancers , Deut . 
as from his long residence in Egypt , and his acquaintance with Egyptian wisdom , could not be ignorant of the doctrine of the immortality of the soul . 
But this doctrine if popularly known among the Jews , must have been purely Egyptian , and as so , intimately connected with the whole religious system of that country . 
The Mosaic religion drew a wide and impassable interval between the Creator and created human beings in this it differed from the Egyptian and all the Eastern religions . 
the disciple of Papias , who had seen the apostle St . 
See the second dialogue of Justin with Triphon , and the seventh book of Lactantius . 
It is unnecessary to allege all the intermediate fathers , as the fact is not disputed . 
Yet the curious reader may consult Daille de Uus Patrum , l . 
as a fable of Jewish dotage . 
The whole of these gross and earthly images may be traced in the works which treat on the Jewish traditions , in Lightfoot , Schoetgen , and Eisenmenger Das enthdeckte Judenthum t . 
ii and briefly in Bertholdt , i . 
M. Dupin , Bibliotheque Ecclesiastique , tom . 
, and Mosheim , p . 
though the latter of these learned divines is not altogether candid on this occasion . 
From what causes then is the Apocalypse at present so generally received by the Greek , the Roman , and the Protestant churches ? The following ones may be assigned . 
The Greeks were subdued by the authority of an impostor , who , in the sixth century , assumed the character of Dionysius the Areopagite . 
The advantage of turning those mysterious prophecies against the See of Rome , inspired the Protestants with uncommon veneration for so useful an ally . 
See the ingenious and elegant discourses of the present bishop of Litchfield on that unpromising subject . 
! Note The exclusion of the Apocalypse is not improbably assigned to its obvious unfitness to be read in churches . 
Wetstein's interpretation , differently modified , is adopted by most Continental scholars . 
M. Whilst the happiness and glory of a temporal reign were promised to the disciples of Christ , the most dreadful calamities were denounced against an unbelieving world . 
The calmest and most intrepid sceptic could not refuse to acknowledge that the destruction of the present system of the world by fire , was in itself extremely probable . 
relates the dismal talk of futurity with great spirit and eloquence . 
Note Lactantius had a notion of a great Asiatic empire , which was previously to rise on the ruins of the Roman quod Romanum nomen animus dicere , sed dicam . 
quia futurum est ) tolletur de terra , et impere . 
M. On this subject every reader of taste will be entertained with the third part of Burnet's Sacred Theory . 
He blends philosophy , Scripture , and tradition , into one magnificent system in the description of which he displays a strength of fancy not inferior to that of Milton himself . 
But the primitive church , whose faith was of a much firmer consistence , delivered over , without hesitation , to eternal torture , the far greater part of the human species . 
A charitable hope might perhaps be indulged in favor of Socrates , or some other sages of antiquity , who had consulted the light of reason before that of the gospel had arisen . 
These rigid sentiments , which had been unknown to the ancient world , appear to have infused a spirit of bitterness into a system of love and harmony . 
You are fond of spectacles , exclaims the stern Tertullian expect the greatest of all spectacles , the last and eternal judgment of the universe . 
Zuinglius is perhaps the only leader of a party who has ever adopted the milder sentiment , and he gave no less offence to the Lutherans than to the Catholics . 
See Bossuet , Histoire des Variations des Eglises Protestantes , l . 
Justin and Clemens of Alexandria allow that some of the philosophers were instructed by the Logos confounding its double signification of the human reason , and of the Divine Word . 
This translation is not exact the first sentence is imperfect . 
Tertullian says , Ille dies nationibus insperatus , ille derisus , cum tanta sacculi vetustas et tot ejus nativitates uno igne haurientur . 
The text does not authorize the exaggerated expressions , so many magistrates , so many sago philosophers , so many poets , c . 
but simply magistrates , philosophers , poets . 
G. It is not clear that Gibbon's version or paraphrase is incorrect Tertullian writes , tot tantosque reges item praesides , c . 
M. Tertullian , de Spectaculis , c . 
As often as he applied himself to his daily study of the writings of Tertullian , he was accustomed to say , Da mihi magistrum , Give me my master . 
inspice Dei voces , literas nostras . 
Scitote ex illis praeceptum esse nobis ad redudantionem , benignitates etiam pro inimicis Deum orare , et pro persecutoribus cona precari . 
pro regibus et pro principibus et potestatibus ut omnia sint tranquilla vobis Tert . 
M. Doubtless there were many among the primitive Christians of a temper more suitable to the meekness and charity of their profession . 
There were many who felt a sincere compassion for the danger of their friends and countrymen , and who exerted the most benevolent zeal to save them from the impending destruction . 
It is somewhat remarkable , that the prelate of the first eastern church , however anxious for the conversion of his friend , thought proper to decline this fair and reasonable challenge . 
Notwithstanding the evasions of Dr . 
Middleton , it is impossible to overlook the clear traces of visions and inspiration , which may be found in the apostolic fathers . 
in which he affirms the long discontinuance of miracles as a notorious fact . 
observes , that as this pretension of all others was the most difficult to support by art , it was the soonest given up . 
The observation suits his hypothesis . 
M. Note Except in the life of Pachomius , an Egyptian monk of the fourth century . 
lives of Xavier , there is no claim laid to the gift of tongues since the time of Irenaeus and of this claim , Xavier's own letters are profoundly silent . 
See Douglas's Criterion , p . 
These descriptions are not very unlike the prophetic fury , for which Cicero expresses so little reverence . 
throws out a bold defiance to the Pagan magistrates . 
Of the primitive miracles , the power of exorcising is the only one which has been assumed by Protestants . 
Note But by Protestants neither of the most enlightened ages nor most reasoning minds . 
concludes , that the second century was still more fertile in miracles than the first . 
Middleton , Works , vol . 
would consider Irenaeus to speak of what had been performed formerly . 
not in his own time . 
M. Theophilus ad Autolycum , l . 
Note A candid sceptic might discern some impropriety in the Bishop being called upon to perform a miracle on demand . 
They still supported their pretensions after they had lost their power . 
Credulity performed the office of faith fanaticism was permitted to assume the language of inspiration , and the effects of accident or contrivance were ascribed to supernatural causes . 
to the style of the divine artist . 
The university of Oxford conferred degrees on his opponents . 
we may discover the sentiments of the Lutheran divines . 
Note Yet many Protestant divines will now without reluctance confine miracles to the time of the apostles , or at least to the first century . 
M It may seem somewhat remarkable , that Bernard of Clairvaux , who records so many miracles of his friend St . 
Malachi , never takes any notice of his own , which , in their turn , however , are carefully related by his companions and disciples . 
The more rational divines are unwilling to admit the miracles of the ivth , whilst the more credulous are unwilling to reject those of the vth century . 
In modern times , a latent and even involuntary scepticism adheres to the most pious dispositions . 
Their admission of supernatural truths is much less an active consent than a cold and passive acquiescence . 
But , in the first ages of Christianity , the situation of mankind was extremely different . 
The most curious , or the most credulous , among the Pagans , were often persuaded to enter into a society which asserted an actual claim of miraculous powers . 
The primitive Christians perpetually trod on mystic ground , and their minds were exercised by the habits of believing the most extraordinary events . 
According to the more rigid doctors , the moral virtues , which may be equally practised by infidels , are destitute of any value or efficacy in the work of our justification . 
Chapter XV Progress Of The Christian Religion . 
These , in the opinion of the editor , are the most uncandid paragraphs in Gibbon's History . 
But this reproach , when it is cleared from misrepresentation , contributes as much to the honor as it did to the increase of the church . 
The friends of Christianity may acknowledge without a blush , that many of the most eminent saints had been before their baptism the most abandoned sinners . 
As they emerged from sin and superstition to the glorious hope of immortality , they resolved to devote themselves to a life , not only of virtue , but of penitence . 
The imputations of Celsus and Julian , with the defence of the fathers , are very fairly stated by Spanheim , Commentaire sur les Cesars de Julian , p . 
Any particular society that has departed from the great body of the nation , or the religion to which it belonged , immediately becomes the object of universal as well as invidious observation . 
Near a century afterwards , Tertullian with an honest pride , could boast , that very few Christians had suffered by the hand of the executioner , except on account of their religion . 
Their serious and sequestered life , averse to the gay luxury of the age , inured them to chastity , temperance , economy , and all the sober and domestic virtues . 
The contempt of the world exercised them in the habits of humility , meekness , and patience . 
The more they were persecuted , the more closely they adhered to each other . 
Their mutual charity and unsuspecting confidence has been remarked by infidels , and was too often abused by perfidious friends . 
He adds , however , with some degree of hesitation , Aut si aliud , jam non Christianus . 
imposed , for a long time , on the credulous simplicity of the Christians of Asia . 
It is a very honorable circumstance for the morals of the primitive Christians , that even their faults , or rather errors , were derived from an excess of virtue . 
See a very judicious treatise of Barbeyrac sur la Morale des Peres . 
There are two very natural propensities which we may distinguish in the most virtuous and liberal dispositions , the love of pleasure and the love of action . 
The love of action is a principle of a much stronger and more doubtful nature . 
To the love of pleasure we may therefore ascribe most of the agreeable , to the love of action we may attribute most of the useful and respectable , qualifications . 
The character in which both the one and the other should be united and harmonized , would seem to constitute the most perfect idea of human nature . 
But it was not in this world , that the primitive Christians were desirous of making themselves either agreeable or useful . 
ces maitres de l'histoire , ont ils jamais introduits dans leur recits un fragment de dissertation sur le plaisir et sur l'action . 
M. The acquisition of knowledge , the exercise of our reason or fancy , and the cheerful flow of unguarded conversation , may employ the leisure of a liberal mind . 
Very different was the reasoning of our devout predecessors vainly aspiring to imitate the perfection of angels , they disdained , or they affected to disdain , every earthly and corporeal delight . 
The first sensation of pleasure was marked as the first moment of their abuse . 
The virtue of the primitive Christians , like that of the first Romans , was very frequently guarded by poverty and ignorance . 
Consult a work of Clemens of Alexandria , entitled The Paedagogue , which contains the rudiments of ethics , as they were taught in the most celebrated of the Christian schools . 
Tertullian , de Spectaculis , c . 
The hesitation of the orthodox casuists on this interesting subject , betrays the perplexity of men , unwilling to approve an institution which they were compelled to tolerate . 
The enumeration of the very whimsical laws , which they most circumstantially imposed on the marriage bed , would force a smile from the young and a blush from the fair . 
It was their unanimous sentiment , that a first marriage was adequate to all the purposes of nature and of society . 
The sensual connection was refined into a resemblance of the mystic union of Christ with his church , and was pronounced to be indissoluble either by divorce or by death . 
A few of these , among whom we may reckon the learned Origen , judged it the most prudent to disarm the tempter . 
Some were insensible and some were invincible against the assaults of the flesh . 
But insulted Nature sometimes vindicated her rights , and this new species of martyrdom served only to introduce a new scandal into the church . 
many , as they were less presumptuous , were probably more successful . 
The loss of sensual pleasure was supplied and compensated by spiritual pride . 
Such are the early traces of monastic principles and institutions , which , in a subsequent age , have counterbalanced all the temporal advantages of Christianity . 
Critique du Manicheisme , l . 
Justin , Gregory of Nyssa , Augustin , c . 
, strongly incline to this opinion . 
Note But these were Gnostic or Manichean opinions . 
Beausobre distinctly describes Autustine's bias to his recent escape from Manicheism and adds that be afterwards changed his views . 
M. Some of the Gnostic heretics were more consistent they rejected the use of marriage . 
See a chain of tradition , from Justin Martyr to Jerome , in the Morale des Peres , c . 
See a very curious Dissertation on the Vestals , in the Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
Notwithstanding the honors and rewards which were bestowed on those virgins , it was difficult to procure a sufficient number nor could the dread of the most horrible death always restrain their incontinence . 
Cupiditatem procreandi aut unam scimus aut nullam . 
Before the fame of Origen had excited envy and persecution , this extraordinary action was rather admired than censured . 
As it was his general practice to allegorize Scripture , it seems unfortunate that in this instance only , he should have adopted the literal sense . 
, and Dodwell , Dissertat . 
Something like this rash attempt was long afterwards imputed to the founder of the order of Fontevrault . 
Bayle has amused himself and his readers on that very delicate subject . 
gives a particular account of the dialogue of the ten virgins , as it was composed by Methodius , Bishop of Tyre . 
The praises of virginity are excessive . 
made a public profession of mortifying their bodies , and of abstaining from the use of flesh and wine . 
The Christians were not less averse to the business than to the pleasures of this world . 
The Christians felt and confessed that such institutions might be necessary for the present system of the world , and they cheerfully submitted to the authority of their Pagan governors . 
But while they inculcated the maxims of passive obedience , they refused to take any active part in the civil administration or the military defence of the empire . 
See the Morale des Peres . 
The same patient principles have been revived since the Reformation by the Socinians , the modern Anabaptists , and the Quakers . 
Barclay , the Apologist of the Quakers , has protected his brethren by the authority of the primitive Christian p . 
Origen contra Celsum , l . 
suggested to them the expedient of deserting a counsel which , if it had been generally known , was not very proper to conciliate the favor of the emperors towards the Christian sect . 
It was then much less by an effect of their doctrine , than by the consequence of their situation , that they stood aloof from public business . 
Whenever this situation offered no impediment , they showed as much activity as the Pagans . 
nos solum Deum adoramus , et vobis in rebus aliis laeti inservimus . 
He does not positively decide that the military service is not permitted to Christians he ends , indeed , by saying , Puta denique licere militiam usque ad causam coronae . 
I think , again unfortunate in his defence of Tertullian . 
That father says , that many Christian soldiers had deserted , aut deserendum statim sit , ut a multis actum . 
The latter sentence , Puta , c , c . 
, is a concession for the sake of argument wha follows is more to the purpose . 
Navigamus et not vobiscum et militamus . 
but he has often renounced this exaggerated severity , perhaps necessary to produce great results , and be speaks of the profession of arms as an honorable one . 
G. On these points Christian opinion , it should seem , was much divided Tertullian , when he wrote the De Cor . 
, was evidently inclining to more ascetic opinions , and Origen was of the same class . 
his adversary , Celsus , had urged his objection with great force and candor . 
Chapter XV Progress Of The Christian Religion . 
The government of the church has often been the subject , as well as the prize , of religious contention . 
The societies which were instituted in the cities of the Roman empire , were united only by the ties of faith and charity . 
Independence and equality formed the basis of their internal constitution . 
But these extraordinary gifts were frequently abused or misapplied by the prophetic teachers . 
As the institution of prophets became useless , and even pernicious , their powers were withdrawn , and their office abolished . 
The name of Presbyter was expressive of their age , or rather of their gravity and wisdom . 
The title of Bishop denoted their inspection over the faith and manners of the Christians who were committed to their pastoral care . 
In proportion to the respective numbers of the faithful , a larger or smaller number of these episcopal presbyters guided each infant congregation with equal authority and with united counsels . 
The aristocratical party in France , as well as in England , has strenuously maintained the divine origin of bishops . 
But the Calvinistical presbyters were impatient of a superior and the Roman Pontiff refused to acknowledge an equal . 
In the history of the Christian hierarchy , I have , for the most part , followed the learned and candid Mosheim . 
For the prophets of the primitive church , see Mosheim , Dissertationes ad Hist . 
Paul distinctly reproves the intrusion of females into the prophets office . 
M. See the epistles of St . 
Paul , and of Clemens , to the Corinthians . 
After the deacons came the elders or priests , charged with the maintenance of order and decorum in the community , and to act every where in its name . 
The bishops were afterwards charged to watch over the faith and the instruction of the disciples the apostles themselves appointed several bishops . 
Clement of Alexandria , and many fathers of the second and third century , do not permit us to doubt this fact . 
The equality of rank between these different functionaries did not prevent their functions being , even in their origin , distinct they became subsequently still more so . 
See Plank , Geschichte der Christ . 
G. On this extremely obscure subject , which has been so much perplexed by passion and interest , it is impossible to justify any opinion without entering into long and controversial details . 
It must be admitted , in opposition to Plank , that in the New Testament , several words are sometimes indiscriminately used . 
or whether his distinct functions were established on apostolic authority , is still contested . 
The universal submission to this episcopacy , in every part of the Christian world appears to me strongly to favor the latter view . 
M. Hooker's Ecclesiastical Polity , l . 
But we may define , in a few words , the narrow limits of their original jurisdiction , which was chiefly of a spiritual , though in some instances of a temporal nature . 
These powers , during a short period , were exercised according to the advice of the presbyteral college , and with the consent and approbation of the assembly of Christians . 
The primitive bishops were considered only as the first of their equals , and the honorable servants of a free people . 
See Jerome and Titum , c . 
and the elaborate apology of Blondel , pro sententia Hieronymi . 
whose testimony I know not how to reject , in spite of all the objections of the learned Pearson in his Vindiciae Ignatianae , part i . 
See the introduction to the Apocalypse . 
Bishops , under the name of angels , were already instituted in the seven cities of Asia . 
does not lead us to discover any traces of episcopacy either at Corinth or Rome . 
Nulla Ecclesia sine Episcopo , has been a fact as well as a maxim since the time of Tertullian and Irenaeus . 
After we have passed the difficulties of the first century , we find the episcopal government universally established , till it was interrupted by the republican genius of the Swiss and German reformers . 
See Mosheim in the first and second centuries . 
is fond of exalting the episcopal dignity . 
suspects the purity even of the smaller epistles . 
Nonne et Laici sacerdotes sumus ? Tertullian , Exhort . 
may be applied even to real inspiration . 
Note This expression was employed by the earlier Christian writers in the sense used by St . 
It was the sanctity and virtue not the power of priesthood , in which all Christians were to be equally distinguished . 
M. Such was the mild and equal constitution by which the Christians were governed more than a hundred years after the death of the apostles . 
As the numbers of the faithful were gradually multiplied , they discovered the advantages that might result from a closer union of their interest and designs . 
Their deliberations were assisted by the advice of a few distinguished presbyters , and moderated by the presence of a listening multitude . 
The institution of synods was so well suited to private ambition , and to public interest , that in the space of a few years it was received throughout the whole empire . 
The synods were not the first means taken by the insulated churches to enter into communion and to assume a corporate character . 
The dioceses were not formed before the beginning of the second century before that time the Christians had not established sufficient churches in the country to stand in need of that union . 
It is towards the middle of the same century that we discover the first traces of the metropolitan constitution . 
M. The provincial synods did not commence till towards the middle of the third century , and were not the first synods . 
This council was composed of eighty seven bishops from the provinces of Mauritania , Numidia , and Africa some presbyters and deacons assisted at the assembly praesente plebis maxima parte . 
Aguntur praeterea per Graecias illas , certis in locis concilia , c Tertullian de Jejuniis , c . 
The African mentions it as a recent and foreign institution . 
The coalition of the Christian churches is very ably explained by Mosheim , p . 
They exalted the unity and power of the church , as it was represented in the Episcopal Office , of which every bishop enjoyed an equal and undivided portion . 
The bishops were the vicegerents of Christ , the successors of the apostles , and the mystic substitutes of the high priest of the Mosaic law . 
This obedience , however , was not imposed without some efforts on one side , and some resistance on the other . 
The democratical part of the constitution was , in many places , very warmly supported by the zealous or interested opposition of the inferior clergy . 
Cyprian , in his admired treatise De Unitate Ecclesiae . 
We may appeal to the whole tenor of Cyprian's conduct , of his doctrine , and of his epistles . 
has laid him open with great freedom and accuracy . 
If Novatus , Felicissimus , c . 
For a very just account of these obscure quarrels , see Mosheim , p . 
The same causes which at first had destroyed the equality of the presbyters introduced among the bishops a preeminence of rank , and from thence a superiority of jurisdiction . 
If this Punic war was carried on without any effusion of blood , it was owing much less to the moderation than to the weakness of the contending prelates . 
Invectives and excommunications were their only weapons and these , during the progress of the whole controversy , they hurled against each other with equal fury and devotion . 
Tertullian , in a distinct treatise , has pleaded against the heretics the right of prescription , as it was held by the apostolic churches . 
According to Father Hardouin , the monks of the thirteenth century , who composed the Aeneid , represented St . 
Peter under the allegorical character of the Trojan hero . 
Note It is quite clear that , strictly speaking , the church of Rome was not founded by either of these apostles . 
Peter to Rome before the end of the reign of Claudius , or the beginning of that of Nero . 
M. It is in French only that the famous allusion to St . 
Tu es Pierre , et sur cette pierre . 
The same is imperfect in Greek , Latin , Italian , c . 
, and totally unintelligible in our Tentonic languages . 
Note It is exact in Syro Chaldaic , the language in which it was spoken by Jesus Christ . 
Peter was called Cephas and cepha signifies base , foundation , rock G. Irenaeus adv . 
, and Cyprian , Epistol . 
labor in the interpretation of these passages . 
But the loose and rhetorical style of the fathers often appears favorable to the pretensions of Rome . 
See the sharp epistle from Firmilianus , bishop of Caesarea , to Stephen , bishop of Rome , ap . 
Concerning this dispute of the rebaptism of heretics , see the epistles of Cyprian , and the seventh book of Eusebius . 
The progress of the ecclesiastical authority gave birth to the memorable distinction of the laity and of the clergy , which had been unknown to the Greeks and Romans . 
could insinuate itself into the breasts of bishops and martyrs , animated them to increase the number of their subjects , and to enlarge the limits of the Christian empire . 
For the origin of these words , see Mosheim , p . 
The distinction of Clerus and Iaicus was established before the time of Tertullian . 
Chapter XV Progress Of The Christian Religion . 
on a sudden call of charity to redeem the brethren of Numidia , who had been carried away captives by the barbarians of the desert . 
The community instituted by Plato is more perfect than that which Sir Thomas More had imagined for his Utopia . 
The community of women , and that of temporal goods , may be considered as inseparable parts of the same system . 
See the Acts of the Apostles , c . 
, , , with Grotius's Commentary . 
Mosheim , in a particular dissertation , attacks the common opinion with very inconclusive arguments . 
Note This is not the general judgment on Mosheim's learned dissertation . 
There is no trace in the latter part of the New Testament of this community of goods , and many distinct proofs of the contrary . 
All exhortations to almsgiving would have been unmeaning if property had been in common M. Justin Martyr , Apolog . 
, , with the notes of Cotelerius . 
The Constitutions introduce this divine precept , by declaring that priests are as much above kings as the soul is above the body . 
Among the tithable articles , they enumerate corn , wine , oil , and wool . 
On this interesting subject , consult Prideaux's History of Tithes , and Fra Paolo delle Materie Beneficiarie two writers of a very different character . 
The same opinion which prevailed about the year one thousand , was productive of the same effects . 
Most of the Donations express their motive , appropinquante mundi fine . 
See Mosheim's General History of the Church , vol . 
Offerre , fundis venditis Sestertiorum millia . 
Addicta avorum praedia Foedis sub auctionibus , Successor exheres gemit Sanctis egens Parentibus . 
Haec occuluntur abditis Ecclesiarum in angulis . 
Et summa pietas creditur Nudare dulces liberos . 
appears to exaggerate , when he supposes that the successors of Commodus were urged to persecute the Christians by their own avarice , or that of their Praetorian praefects . 
Tertullian de Praescriptione , c . 
Diocletian gave a rescript , which is only a declaration of the old law Collegium , si nullo speciali privilegio subnixum sit , haereditatem capere non posse , dubium non est . 
thinks that these regulations had been much neglected since the reign of Valerian . 
The ground had been public and was row disputed between the society of Christians and that of butchers . 
Note Carponarii , rather victuallers . 
The whole remainder was the sacred patrimony of the poor . 
A generous intercourse of charity united the most distant provinces , and the smaller congregations were cheerfully assisted by the alms of their more opulent brethren . 
Such an institution , which paid less regard to the merit than to the distress of the object , very materially conduced to the progress of Christianity . 
The Pagans , who were actuated by a sense of humanity , while they derided the doctrines , acknowledged the benevolence , of the new sect . 
Cyprian de Lapsis , p . 
The charge is confirmed by the th and th canon of the council of Illiberis . 
See the apologies of Justin , Tertullian , c . 
The wealth and liberality of the Romans to their most distant brethren is gratefully celebrated by Dionysius of Corinth , ap . 
seems mortified that the Christian charity maintains not only their own , but likewise the heathen poor . 
Such , at least , has been the laudable conduct of more modern missionaries , under the same circumstances . 
Above three thousand new born infants are annually exposed in the streets of Pekin . 
See Le Comte , Memoires sur la Chine , and the Recherches sur les Chinois et les Egyptians , tom . 
It is the undoubted right of every society to exclude from its communion and benefits such among its members as reject or violate those regulations which have been established by general consent . 
The consequences of excommunication were of a temporal as well as a spiritual nature . 
The Christian against whom it was pronounced , was deprived of any part in the oblations of the faithful . 
The situation of these unfortunate exiles was in itself very painful and melancholy but , as it usually happens , their apprehensions far exceeded their sufferings . 
With regard to the treatment of these penitents , two opposite opinions , the one of justice , the other of mercy , divided the primitive church . 
A milder sentiment was embraced in practice as well as in theory , by the purest and most respectable of the Christian churches . 
According to the circumstances or the number of the guilty , the exercise of the Christian discipline was varied by the discretion of the bishops . 
Among these we may distinguish the inexpiable guilt of calumniating a bishop , a presbyter , or even a deacon . 
The Montanists and the Novatians , who adhered to this opinion with the greatest rigor and obstinacy , found themselves at last in the number of excommunicated heretics . 
See the learned and copious Mosheim , Secul . 
Cave's Primitive Christianity , part iii . 
The admirers of antiquity regret the loss of this public penance . 
See in Dupin , Bibliotheque Ecclesiastique , tom . 
, a short but rational exposition of the canons of those councils , which were assembled in the first moments of tranquillity , after the persecution of Diocletian . 
This persecution had been much less severely felt in Spain than in Galatia a difference which may , in some measure account for the contrast of their regulations . 
if such irregularities are suffered , there is an end of Episcopal Vigor an end of the sublime and divine power of governing the Church , an end of Christianity itself . 
Gibbon has been accused of injustice to the character of Cyprian , as exalting the censures and authority of the church above the observance of the moral duties . 
on the charge not only of schism , but of embezzlement of public money , the debauching of virgins , and frequent acts of adultery . 
See Chelsum's Remarks , p . 
If these charges against Felicissimus were true , they were something more than irregularities , A Roman censor would have been a fairer subject of comparison than a consul . 
On the other hand , it must be admitted that the charge of adultery deepens very rapidly as the controversy becomes more violent . 
It is first represented as a single act , recently detected , and which men of character were prepared to substantiate adulterii etiam crimen accedit . 
quod patres nostri graves viri deprehendisse se nuntiaverunt , et probaturos se asseverarunt . 
The heretic has now darkened into a man of notorious and general profligacy . 
This supposition appears unfounded the birth and the talents of Cyprian might make us presume the contrary . 
See De Cave , Hist . 
G. Cave has rather embellished Cyprian's language . 
M. In the course of this important , though perhaps tedious inquiry , I have attempted to display the secondary causes which so efficaciously assisted the truth of the Christian religion . 
To the first of these the Christians were indebted for their invincible valor , which disdained to capitulate with the enemy whom they were resolved to vanquish . 
The three succeeding causes supplied their valor with the most formidable arms . 
As they were engaged in the ordinary occupations of life , their zeal and devotion were seldom animated by a sense of interest , or by the habits of an ecclesiastical character . 
We have already seen how various , how loose , and how uncertain were the religious sentiments of Polytheists . 
They were abandoned , almost without control , to the natural workings of a superstitious fancy . 
The arts , the manners , and the vices of the priests of the Syrian goddess are very humorously described by Apuleius , in the eighth book of his Metamorphosis . 
The office of Asiarch was of this nature , and it is frequently mentioned in Aristides , the Inscriptions , c . 
It was annual and elective . 
None but the vainest citizens could desire the honor none but the most wealthy could support the expense . 
See , in the Patres Apostol . 
, with how much indifference Philip the Asiarch conducted himself in the martyrdom of Polycarp . 
There were likewise Bithyniarchs , Lyciarchs , c . 
When Christianity appeared in the world , even these faint and imperfect impressions had lost much of their original power . 
The contagion of these sceptical writings had been diffused far beyond the number of their readers . 
The decline of ancient prejudice exposed a very numerous portion of human kind to the danger of a painful and comfortless situation . 
A state of scepticism and suspense may amuse a few inquisitive minds . 
But the practice of superstition is so congenial to the multitude , that if they are forcibly awakened , they still regret the loss of their pleasing vision . 
So urgent on the vulgar is the necessity of believing , that the fall of any system of mythology will most probably be succeeded by the introduction of some other mode of superstition . 
It has been observed , with truth as well as propriety , that the conquests of Rome prepared and facilitated those of Christianity . 
The authentic histories of the actions of Christ were composed in the Greek language , at a considerable distance from Jerusalem , and after the Gentile converts were grown extremely numerous . 
The modern critics are not disposed to believe what the fathers almost unanimously assert , that St . 
Matthew composed a Hebrew gospel , of which only the Greek translation is extant . 
It seems , however , dangerous to reject their testimony . 
Note Strong reasons appear to confirm this testimony . 
Papias , contemporary of the Apostle St . 
John , says positively that Matthew had written the discourses of Jesus Christ in Hebrew , and that each interpreted them as he could . 
This Hebrew was the Syro Chaldaic dialect , then in use at Jerusalem Origen , Irenaeus , Eusebius , Jerome , Epiphanius , confirm this statement . 
Jesus Christ preached himself in Syro Chaldaic , as is proved by many words which he used , and which the Evangelists have taken the pains to translate . 
Paul , addressing the Jews , used the same language Acts xxi . 
The opinions of some critics prove nothing against such undeniable testimonies . 
Moreover , their principal objection is , that St . 
Matthew quotes the Old Testament according to the Greek version of the LXX . 
More modern critics , among others Michaelis , do not entertain a doubt on the subject . 
The Greek version appears to have been made in the time of the apostles , as St . 
Augustus affirm , perhaps by one of them . 
G. Among modern critics , Dr . 
Hug has asserted the Greek original of St . 
Matthew , but the general opinion of the most learned biblical writer , supports the view of M. Guizot . 
M. Under the reigns of Nero and Domitian , and in the cities of Alexandria , Antioch , Rome , and Ephesus . 
Lardner's fair and extensive collection , vol . 
Note This question has , it is well known , been most elaborately discussed since the time of Gibbon . 
The Preface to the Translation of Schleier Macher's Version of St . 
Luke contains a very able summary of the various theories . 
M. Chapter XV Progress Of The Christian Religion . 
The rich provinces that extend from the Euphrates to the Ionian Sea , were the principal theatre on which the apostle of the Gentiles displayed his zeal and piety . 
Among the societies which were instituted in Syria , none were more ancient or more illustrious than those of Damascus , of Berea or Aleppo , and of Antioch . 
To these domestic testimonies we may add the confession , the complaints , and the apprehensions of the Gentiles themselves . 
Within fourscore years after the death of Christ , the humane Pliny laments the magnitude of the evil which he vainly attempted to eradicate . 
disputed the genuineness of the Apocalypse , because the church of Thyatira was not yet founded . 
Epiphanius , who allows the fact , extricates himself from the difficulty by ingeniously supposing that St . 
John wrote in the spirit of prophecy . 
See Abauzit , Discours sur l'Apocalypse . 
point out many churches in Asia and Greece . 
That of Athens seems to have been one of the least flourishing . 
Lucian in Alexandro , c . 
See M. de Tillemont , Memoires Ecclesiast . 
, from Basil and Gregory of Nyssa , who were themselves natives of Cappadocia . 
Note Gibbon forgot the conclusion of this story , that Gregory left only seventeen heathens in his diocese . 
The antithesis is suspicious , and both numbers may have been chosen to magnify the spiritual fame of the wonder worker . 
M. According to the ancients , Jesus Christ suffered under the consulship of the two Gemini , in the year of our present aera . 
One circumstance , however , has been fortunately preserved , which seems to cast a more distinct light on this obscure but interesting subject . 
But the solution of this apparent difficulty is easy and obvious . 
Slaves , strangers , and infants were comprised in the former they were excluded from the latter . 
He draws the same conclusion with regard to the populousness of antioch . 
I am indebted for these passages , though not for my inference , to the learned Dr . 
Credibility of the Gospel of History , vol . 
Note The statements of Chrysostom with regard to the population of Antioch , whatever may be their accuracy , are perfectly consistent . 
In one passage he reckons the population at , . 
In a second the Christians at , . 
In a third he states that the Christians formed more than half the population . 
Gibbon has neglected to notice the first passage , and has drawn by estimate of the population of Antioch from other sources . 
The maintained by alms were widows and virgins alone M. The extensive commerce of Alexandria , and its proximity to Palestine , gave an easy entrance to the new religion . 
Three bishops were consecrated by the hands of Demetrius , and the number was increased to twenty by his successor Heraclas . 
Basnage , Histoire des Juifs , l . 
, , , , has examined with the most critical accuracy the curious treatise of Philo , which describes the Therapeutae . 
and a crowd of modern Catholics , that the Therapeutae were neither Christians nor monks . 
It still remains probable that they changed their name , preserved their manners , adopted some new articles of faith , and gradually became the fathers of the Egyptian Ascetics . 
See a letter of Hadrian in the Augustan History , p . 
For the succession of Alexandrian bishops , consult Renaudot's History , p . 
This curious fact is preserved by the patriarch Eutychius , Annal . 
Pocock , ) and its internal evidence would alone be a sufficient answer to all the objections which Bishop Pearson has urged in the Vindiciae Ignatianae . 
Origen contra Celsum , l . 
A perpetual stream of strangers and provincials flowed into the capacious bosom of Rome . 
Whatever was strange or odious , whoever was guilty or suspected , might hope , in the obscurity of that immense capital , to elude the vigilance of the law . 
A more careful inquiry soon demonstrated , that the offenders did not exceed seven thousand a number indeed sufficiently alarming , when considered as the object of public justice . 
The number of widows , of the infirm , and of the poor , who were maintained by the oblations of the faithful , amounted to fifteen hundred . 
From reason , as well as from the analogy of Antioch , we may venture to estimate the Christians of Rome at about fifty thousand . 
Ingens multitudo is the expression of Tacitus , xv . 
Nothing could exceed the horror and consternation of the senate on the discovery of the Bacchanalians , whose depravity is described , and perhaps exaggerated , by Livy . 
has thought proper to reduce the number of presbyters to forty four . 
They were both unacquainted with the passage of Chrysostom , which converts their conjecture almost into a fact . 
The western provincials appeared to have derived the knowledge of Christianity from the same source which had diffused among them the language , the sentiments , and the manners of Rome . 
In this more important circumstance , Africa , as well as Gaul , was gradually fashioned to the imitation of the capital . 
The slow progress of the gospel in the cold climate of Gaul , was extremely different from the eagerness with which it seems to have been received on the burning sands of Africa . 
The African Christians soon formed one of the principal members of the primitive church . 
Of these holy romances , that of the apostle St . 
James can alone , by its singular extravagance , deserve to be mentioned . 
From a peaceful fisherman of the Lake of Gennesareth , he was transformed into a valorous knight , who charged at the head of the Spanish chivalry in their battles against the Moors . 
Serius trans Alpes , religione Dei suscepta . 
With regard to Africa , see Tertullian ad Scapulam , c . 
One of the adversaries of Apuleius seems to have been a Christian . 
Tum primum intra Gallias martyria visa . 
These were the celebrated martyrs of Lyons . 
According to the Donatists , whose assertion is confirmed by the tacit acknowledgment of Augustin , Africa was the last of the provinces which received the gospel . 
Rarae in aliquibus civitatibus ecclesiae , paucorum Christianorum devotione , resurgerent . 
Gregory of Tours , l i . 
See Memoires de Tillemont , tom vi . 
The date of Tertullian's Apology is fixed , in a dissertation of Mosheim , to the year . 
The stupendous metamorphosis was performed in the ninth century . 
who , in every sense , imitates Livy , and the honest detection of the legend of St . 
Geddes , Miscellanies , vol . 
But neither the belief nor the wishes of the fathers can alter the truth of history . 
Beyond the last mentioned river , Edessa was distinguished by a firm and early adherence to the faith . 
See the fourth century of Mosheim's History of the Church . 
Many , though very confused circumstances , that relate to the conversion of Iberia and Armenia , may be found in Moses of Chorene , l . 
Martin has shown that Armenia was the first nation that embraced Christianity . 
Memoires sur l'Armenie , vol . 
, and notes to Le Beae . 
Gibbon , indeed had expressed his intention of withdrawing the words of Armenia from the text of future editions . 
He was bitterly taunted by Person for neglecting or declining to fulfil his promise . 
Preface to Letters to Travis . 
M. According to Tertullian , the Christian faith had penetrated into parts of Britain inaccessible to the Roman arms . 
See Mr. Macpher son's Dissertation on the Antiquity of Ossian's Poems , p . 
The Goths , who ravaged Asia in the reign of Gallienus , carried away great numbers of captives some of whom were Christians , and became missionaries . 
See Tillemont , Memoires Ecclesiast . 
Their rivals , the citizens of Carrhae , adhered , on the contrary , to the cause of Paganism , as late as the sixth century . 
there were some Christians in Persia before the end of the second century . 
they composed a flourishing church . 
Cristique du Manicheisme , tom . 
, and the Bibliotheca Orietalis of Assemani . 
Chapter XV Progress Of The Christian Religion . 
Origen contra Celsum , l . 
The Christian religion , which addressed itself to the whole human race , must consequently collect a far greater number of proselytes from the lower than from the superior ranks of life . 
are as mute in public as they are loquacious and dogmatical in private . 
This unfavorable picture , though not devoid of a faint resemblance , betrays , by its dark coloring and distorted features , the pencil of an enemy . 
As the humble faith of Christ diffused itself through the world , it was embraced by several persons who derived some consequence from the advantages of nature or fortune . 
Aristides , who presented an eloquent apology to the emperor Hadrian , was an Athenian philosopher . 
Clemens of Alexandria had acquired much various reading in the Greek , and Tertullian in the Latin , language . 
They presume to alter the Holy Scriptures , to abandon the ancient rule of faith , and to form their opinions according to the subtile precepts of logic . 
The science of the church is neglected for the study of geometry , and they lose sight of heaven while they are employed in measuring the earth . 
Euclid is perpetually in their hands . 
Aristotle and Theophrastus are the objects of their admiration and they express an uncommon reverence for the works of Galen . 
Their errors are derived from the abuse of the arts and sciences of the infidels , and they corrupt the simplicity of the gospel by the refinements of human reason . 
The story is prettily told in Justin's Dialogues . 
who relates it after him is sure that the old man was a disguised angel . 
that the Christians were perpetually correcting and altering their Gospels . 
Note Origen states in reply , that he knows of none who had altered the Gospels except the Marcionites , the Valentinians , and perhaps some followers of Lucanus . 
M. Nor can it be affirmed with truth , that the advantages of birth and fortune were always separated from the profession of Christianity . 
Fuerunt alii similis amentiae , cives Romani Multi enim omnis aetatis , omnis ordinis , utriusque sexus , etiam vocuntur in periculum et vocabuntur . 
Yet even his rhetoric rises no higher than to claim a tenth part of Carthage . 
Instead of employing in our defence the fictions of later ages , it will be more prudent to convert the occasion of scandal into a subject of edification . 
This incomplete enumeration ought to be increased by the names of several Pagans converted at the dawn of Christianity , and whose conversion weakens the reproach which the historian appears to support . 
As to the philosophers , we may add Tatian , Athenagoras , Theophilus of Antioch , Hegesippus , Melito , Miltiades , Pantaenus , Ammenius , all distinguished for their genius and learning . 
G. We stand in need of such reflections to comfort us for the loss of some illustrious characters , which in our eyes might have seemed the most worthy of the heavenly present . 
overlooked or rejected the perfection of the Christian system . 
Their language or their silence equally discover their contempt for the growing sect , which in their time had diffused itself over the Roman empire . 
The new sect is totally unnoticed by Seneca , the elder Pliny , and Plutarch . 
They expose with superfluous with and eloquence the extravagance of Polytheism . 
They interest our compassion by displaying the innocence and sufferings of their injured brethren . 
But this mode of persuasion loses much of its weight and influence , when it is addressed to those who neither understand nor respect the Mosaic dispensation and the prophetic style . 
The emperors Hadrian , Antoninus c . 
, read with astonishment the apologies of Justin Martyr , of Aristides , of Melito , c . 
Eusebius says expressly , that the cause of Christianity was defended before the senate , in a very elegant discourse , by Apollonius the Martyr . 
G. Gibbon , in his severer spirit of criticism , may have questioned the authority of Jerome and Eusebius . 
would solve , by suppose lag him to have been , as Jerome states , a senator . 
and his friend Celsus ap . 
express themselves concerning the Hebrew prophets . 
When the Sibylline verses had performed their appointed task , they , like the system of the millennium , were quietly laid aside . 
The Christian Sybil had unluckily fixed the ruin of Rome for the year , A. U. C. . 
Under the reign of Tiberius , the whole earth , or at least a celebrated province of the Roman empire , was involved in a preternatural darkness of three hours . 
Even this miraculous event , which ought to have excited the wonder , the curiosity , and the devotion of mankind , passed without notice in an age of science and history . 
It happened during the lifetime of Seneca and the elder Pliny , who must have experienced the immediate effects , or received the earliest intelligence , of the prodigy . 
Each of these philosophers , in a laborious work , has recorded all the great phenomena of Nature , earthquakes , meteors comets , and eclipses , which his indefatigable curiosity could collect . 
Both the one and the other have omitted to mention the greatest phenomenon to which the mortal eye has been witness since the creation of the globe . 
The season of obscurity , which cannot surely be compared with the preternatural darkness of the Passion , had been already celebrated by most of the poets and historians of that memorable age . 
seem to cover the whole earth with darkness , in which they are followed by most of the moderns . 
, and a few modern critics , Beza , Le Clerc , Lardner , c . 
, are desirous of confining it to the land of Judea . 
The celebrated passage of Phlegon is now wisely abandoned . 
he probably appeals to the Sibylline verses , which relate it exactly in the words of the Gospel . 
The expression does not mean , they assert , an eclipse , but any kind of obscurity occasioned in the atmosphere , whether by clouds or any other cause . 
The word is often taken in this sense by contemporary writers the Apocalypse says the sun was concealed , when speaking of an obscuration caused by smoke and dust . 
Moreover , the Hebrew word ophal , which in the LXX . 
answers to the Greek , signifies any darkness and the Evangelists , who have modelled the sense of their expressions by those of the LXX . 
, must have taken it in the same latitude . 
This darkening of the sky usually precedes earthquakes . 
The Heathen authors furnish us a number of examples , of which a miraculous explanation was given at the time . 
Wetstein has collected all these examples in his edition of the New Testament . 
See Michaelia Notes on New Testament , v . 
Paulus , Commentary on New Testament , iii . 
The last of these poets places this prodigy before the civil war . 
See a public epistle of M. Antony in Joseph . 
His little treatise is an abstract of Livy's prodigies . 
