GULLIVER OF MARS by Edwin L. Arnold Original Title Lieut . 
It made no difference to me , of course . 
Gods ! I had not even touched the fringe of that affliction . 
There was neither heart beat nor breath in him , and the last flicker of life faded out of that gaunt face even as I watched . 
Is this your rug , captain ? asked a bystander just as we were driving off . 
Not mine , I answered somewhat roughly . 
Most strange looking man , and none of us can even guess at his age . 
Not a friend of yours , I suppose ? Nothing whatever to do with me , sir . 
He slipped on the pavement and fell in front of me just now , and as a mat ter of common charity I brought him in here . 
But the strangest thing about that carpet was its pattern . 
Round the borders these characters ran into a wild maze , a perfect jungle of an alphabet through which none but a wizard could have forced a way in search of meaning . 
It humped up in the middle so abruptly that I came down sitting with a shock that numbed me for the moment . 
It threw me on my back and billowed up round me as though I were in the trough of a stormy sea . 
Quicker than I can write it lapped a corner over and rolled me in its folds like a chrysalis in a cocoon . 
I gave a wild yell and made one frantic struggle , but it was too late . 
and time and space and circumstances all lost their meaning to me . 
CHAPTER II How long that wild rush lasted I have no means of judging . 
But in my case the slowing down was for a long time comparative . 
As I turned over I had a dim vision of a clear light like the shine of dawn , and solid ground sloping away below me . 
Upon that slope was ranged a crowd of squatting people , and a staid looking individual with his back turned stood nearer by . 
He looked so quaintly rueful yet withal so good tempered that I could not help bursting into laughter in spite of my own amazement . 
Meanwhile , as he ministered , there was time to look about me . 
Where was I ? It was not the Broadway it was not Staten Island on a Saturday afternoon . 
The night was just over , and the sun on the point of rising . 
Yet it was still shadowy all about , the air being marvellously tepid and pleasant to the senses . 
At first it was an opal sea I looked on of mist , shot along its upper surface with the rosy gold and pinks of dawn . 
It was all dim and unreal at first , the mountains shadowy , the ocean unreal , the flowery fields be tween it and me vacant and shadowy . 
This made him thoughtful , and thereon followed a curious incident which I cannot explain . 
I may strengthen my claim on your credulity by pointing out the extraordinary marvels which science is teaching you even on our own little world . 
He next took my face between his hands , and putting his nose within an inch of mine , stared into my eyes with all his might . 
At first I was inclined to laugh , but before long the most curious sensations took hold of me . 
They commenced with a thrill which passed all up my body , and next all feeling save the consciousness of the loud beating of my heart ceased . 
Then it seemed that boy's eyes were inside my head and not outside , while along with them an intangible something pervaded my brain . 
The sensation at first was like the application of ether to the skin a cool , numbing emotion . 
I presume that in the future we shall all obtain knowledge in this way . 
My friend did not get as far as that . 
With him the process did not take more than a minute , but it was startling in its results , and reduced me to an extraordinary state of hypnotic receptibility . 
My word , sir ! I said , in lisping Martian , as I pulled down my cuffs and put my cravat straight , that was a quick process . 
I once heard of a man who learnt a language in the moments he gave each day to having his boots blacked but this beats all . 
I could have taught another in half the time . 
Curiously enough , was my response , those are almost the very words with which my dear old tutor dismissed me the morning I left college . 
Never mind , the thing is done . 
Shall I pay you anything ? I do not understand . 
Any honorarium , then ? Some people understand one word and not the other . 
But the boy only shook his head in answer . 
Strangely enough , I was not greatly surprised all this time either at the novelty of my whereabouts or at the hypnotic instruction in a new language just received . 
But , anyhow , there is the fact , which , like so many others in my narrative , must , alas ! remain unexplained for the moment . 
We are very tidy people here , stranger , he said , and everything found Lying about goes back to the Palace store rooms . 
You will laugh to see the lumber there , for few of us ever take the trouble to reclaim our property . 
And yet somehow I liked them from the first minute such a happy , careless , light hearted race , again I say , never was seen before . 
My shoulder tingles with your good fellowship , he added , keeping two arms' lengths clear of me . 
Undoubtedly you are a stranger , said the friendly youth , eyeing me from top to toe with renewed wonder , and by your unknown garb one from afar . 
From how far no man can say not even I but from very far , in truth . 
Let that stay your curiosity for the time . 
And now to bench and ale mug , on good fellow ! the short est way . 
Now stretch your starry knowledge to the utmost , and put down that tankard for a moment . 
Was that a dream , or this ? No , no , both were too real . 
CHAPTER III It was the light touch of the boy An upon my shoulder which roused me . 
Every booth and way side halting place was thronged with these delicate and sprightly people , so friendly , so gracious , and withal so pur poseless . 
Wherever we went the people stared at me , as well they might , as I walked through them overtopping the tallest by a head or more . 
There were some dainty cloaks and wraps in it which An took out and laid under a tree . 
The air was full of sunshine and merry voices birds were singing , trees were budding only my heart was heavy , my mind confused . 
It is a bit delicate , but you look a sensible sort of fellow , and will take no offence . 
Then a little later on I heard you and a friend abusing our sex from an outside point of view in a way which was very disconcerting . 
He drew back from me with a show of wounded dignity , then bit his lips , and sighed , and stared , and frowned . 
Not I , I never mocked any one . 
And does my robe tell you nothing ? Nothing so much a yellow tunic and becoming enough , but nothing about it to hang a deduction on . 
Come ! Are you a girl , after all ? I do not count myself a girl . 
I hate your manhood , send it after the maidhood it fits me just as badly . 
But An , be reasonable man or maid you must be . 
No , said the other , it was my fault to be hasty of offence I am not so angered once a year . 
But in truth your question moves us yellow robes deeply . 
Did you not really know that we who wear this saffron tunic are slaves , a race apart , despised by all . 
'Slaves , no how should I know it ? I thought you must understand a thing so fundamental , and it was that thought which made your questions seem unkind . 
There was no doubt poor An believed what she said , for her attitude was one of extreme dejection while she spoke , and to cheer her I laughed . 
Oh ! come , it can't be as bad as that . 
If it were no then it were so , and if yes then Hath were our king . 
A mild king I should judge by your uncertainty . 
In the place where I came from kings press their individualities somewhat more clearly on their subjects' minds . 
Is Hath here in the city ? Does he come to your feasts today ? An nodded . 
Hath was on the river , he had been to see the sunrise even now she thought the laughter and singing down behind the bend might be the king's barge coming up citywards . 
He will not be late , said my companion , because the marriage feast is set for tomorrow in the palace . 
Surely , An , this is a marvel of arrangement . 
Where I dwelt wooings would sometimes be long or sometimes short , and all maids were not complacent by such universal agree ment . 
The girl was clearly perplexed . 
Whereat An burst out laughing a clear , ringing laugh that set all the light hearted folk in the nearest boats laughing in sympathy . 
But when the grotesqueness of the idea had somewhat worn off , she turned grave and asked me if such a fancy did not lead to spite , envy , and bickerings . 
Why , it seems to me , she said , shaking her curly head , such a plan might fire cities , desolate plains , and empty palaces Such things have been . 
Ah ! our way is much the better . 
See ! quoth that gentle philosopher . 
Why , you must acknowledge this is the per fection of ease . 
All this was strange enough . 
An , as we went along , was telling me more of her strange country , pointing out birds or flowers and naming them to me . 
You should not have done that , she said our dead whom we send down over the falls come back in the body of yonder little bird . 
I steered our skiff a space out from the bank to get a better view , while An clapped her hands together and laughed . 
It is Hath he himself and those of the palace with him . 
Steer a little nearer still , friend so ! between yon floating rubbish flats , for those with Hath are good to look at . 
He did not make me desire to renounce my demo cratic principles . 
And in this fairy den was a thin , gaunt young man , dressed in some sort of black stuff so nondescript that it amounted to little more than a shadow . 
It was not an unhandsome face , but ashy grey in colour and amongst the insipid countenances of the Martians about him marvellously thoughtful . 
I do not know whether those who had killed themselves by learn ing ever leave ghosts behind , but if so this was the very ideal for such a one . 
At his feet I noticed , when I un hooked my eyes from his at last , sat a girl in a loose coral pink gown who was his very antipode . 
Princess Heru , for so she was called , was resting one arm upon his knee at our approach and pulling a blue convolvulus bud to pieces a charming picture of dainty idleness . 
Anything so soft , so silken as that little lady was never seen before . 
Meanwhile , even the most infatuated of mortals cannot stare for ever without saying something . 
Some of this stuff was heavy timber , and when a sudden warning cry went up from the leading boats it did not take my sailor instinct long to guess what was amiss . 
Hath's boat could no more escape than if it had been planted on a rocky pedestal , garlands and curtains trailing in the water hung so heavy on it . 
As it flashed by a branch caught upon the trailing tapestry , hurling me to the deck , , and tearing away with it all that finery . 
When I scrambled to my feet all was ludicrous confusion on board . 
Hath still stood by his throne an island in a sea of disorder staring at me all else was chaos . 
The rowers and courtiers were kicking and wallowing in the waist of the ship like fish newly shot out of a trawl net , but the princess was gone . 
Where was she ? I brushed the spray from my eyes , and stared overboard . 
She was not in the bub bling blue water alongside . 
What man could need more ? Down the barge I rushed , and drop ping only my swordbelt , leapt in to her rescue . 
The gentle Martians were too numb to raise a hand in help but it was not necessary . 
I had the tide with me , and gained at every stroke . 
I redoubled my efforts and got alongside , clutching the rind of that old stump , and swimming and scrambling , at last was within reach of the princess . 
It came only too quickly . 
The gallant Martians , when they saw the princess saved , came swiftly down upon us . 
CHAPTER IV They lodged me like a prince in a tributary country that first night . 
Directly underneath in the great square at the bottom of Hath's palace steps were gathered a concourse of people , brilliant in many coloured dresses . 
Are you rested , traveller ? she questioned in that pretty voice of hers . 
It is well I will tell the Government and it will come up to wash and dress you , afterwards giving you breakfast . 
For the breakfast , damsel , I shall be grateful , but as for the washing and dressing I will defend myself to the last gasp sooner than submit to such administration . 
An replied , The stranger is a prince , we take it , in his own country , and princes fare not quite like common people , even here . 
So , I said , my mouth full of a strange , unknown fish , and a cake soft as milk and white as cotton in the pod . 
No , no , of course you cannot . 
But though she was ready and willing enough to answer , and laughed gaily at my quaint ignorance of simple things , yet there was little water in the well . 
At once the girl's face clouded over , and it was obvious a tender subject had been chanced upon . 
She waved her hand impatiently as though to change the subject , but I would not be put off . 
Come , I said , this is better than breakfast . 
It was the one thing this unknown enemy of yours wanting to lever the dull mass of your too peacefulness . 
You would not jest if you knew our enemy ! That is as it may be . 
I have laughed in the face of many a stronger foe than yours is like to prove but anyhow , give me a chance to judge . 
Not I. No ! said An , with a little warmth . 
If it comes to that , you know nothing . 
'Tis unfortunate , no doubt , lady , I answered . 
Yet it was long ago , and the plunderers are far away . 
We , said An simply , and with no show of shame , would rather die than fight , and so we take the easier way , though a heavy one it is . 
Look ! she said , drawing me to the broad window whence we could get a glimpse of the westward town and the harbour out beyond the walls . 
Look ! see yonder long row of boats with brown sails hanging loose reefed from every yard ranged all along the quay . 
Even from here you can make out the thin stream of porter slaves passing to and fro between them and the granaries like ants on a sunny path . 
Is that what they take for tribute ? That and one girl the fairest they can find . 
One only one ! 'Tis very moderate , all things considered . 
By this time , breakfasted and rehabilitated , I was ready to go forth . 
Then I bring a message from Prince Hath , saying it would pleasure him greatly if you would eat the morning meal with him . 
Why , I answered , it is very civil indeed , but I have breakfasted already . 
And so has Hath , said the boy , gently yawning . 
Is the message too bulky for your slender shoulders ? No , said the boy , rousing himself slowly , I will take it , and then he prepared to go . 
He turned again and said , without a trace of incivility , But indeed , stranger , I wish you would take the message yourself . 
This is the third flight of stairs I have been up today . 
Everywhere it was the same friendly indolence . 
It was a city full of the ghosts of the life which once pulsed through its ways . 
Ay , and undone , I think , as well , for coming along I have noted axe chippings upon the walls , smudges of ancient fire and smoke upon the cornices . 
, that the girl was clearly relieved when we were free of the town and out into the open play ground of the people . 
The whole place down there was a gay , shifting crowd . 
And here the Hither folk were varying their idleness by a general holiday . 
They were standing about in groups , or lying ranked like new plucked flowers on the banks , piping to each other through reeds as soft and melodious as running water . 
They were playing inconsequent games and breaking off in the middle of them like children looking for new pleasures . 
Once in deed I think we had longer names , but , she added , smiling , how much trouble it saves to limit each one to a single sound . 
It is uncivil to one's neighbours to burden their tongues with double duty when half would do . 
But have you no patronymics nothing to show the child comes of the same source as his father came ? We have no fathers . 
What ! no fathers ? I said , starting and staring at her . 
Look at that painted butterfly swinging on the honey laden catkin there . 
What knows she of the mother who shed her life into a flowercup and forgot which flower it was the minute afterwards . 
We , too , are insects , stranger . 
This made me melancholy , and somehow set me thinking of the friends immeasurably distant I had left but yesterday . 
Oh , that , said my friend , is the most essential of them all that is the wine of recovery , without which all the others were deadly poisons . 
The which , lady , looks as if it had a moral attaching to it . 
It may have indeed I think it has , but I have forgotten . 
Prince Hath would know ! Meanwhile let me give you to drink , great stranger , let me get you something . 
Well , then , I laughed , reach me down an antidote to fate , a specific for an absent mistress , and forgetful friends . 
What was she like ? said An , hesitating a little and frowning . 
However , it did not matter . 
The girl handed me the cup , and I put my lips to it . 
The first taste was bitter and acrid , like the liquor of long steeped wood . 
At the second taste a shiver of pleasure ran through me , and I opened my eyes and stared hard . 
I sank upon a mossy bank and , lolling my head , beamed idiotically on the lolling Martians all about me . 
How long I was like that I cannot say . 
I was myself again by this time , so willingly took her hand , and soon came out of the tangle into the open spaces . 
Out here as the day waned they had developed some sort of method in their sports . 
Why , I said in amazement , this is the best of fools no one could miss from such a distance . 
Ay but , replied my guide , he is a gifted one , versed in mystics . 
He poised it in his hand a minute to get the middle , then turned on the living target . 
Whatever else they might be , these Martians were certainly beautiful as the day time . 
And now the javelin was going . 
And as though it had struck a wall of brass , the shaft leapt back falling quivering at the thrower's feet . 
It is useless , answered An none but one who knows more magic than he , or is especially befriended by the Fates can touch him through the envelope he has put on . 
Still , I think I will try . 
It is hopeless , I would not willingly see you fail , whispered the girl , with a sudden show of friendship . 
So I pushed through the spectators and stepped into the ring . 
I went straight up to the pile of weapons , and having chosen one went over to the mystic . 
Ay , but by the stars it does , for it will vex the quiet repose of your soul tomorrow if your heirs should swear they could not find them . 
It matters nothing , muttered the will wrapped visionary . 
It will matter something if I take you at your word . 
Then , by thunder , I will initiate you into the mysteries of a javelin end , and your blood be on your head . 
The Martians were all craning their necks in hushed eagerness as I turned to the casting place , and , poising the javelin , faced the magician . 
The Martians' heads turned as though all on one pivot as the spear sped through the air , expecting no doubt to see it recoil as others had done . 
They crowded round him in a dense ring , as An came flitting to me with a startled face . 
Oh , stranger , she burst out , you have surely killed him ! but more astounded I had broken down his guard than grieved at his injury . 
What ! I exclaimed , more magic ? I have been brought up on more substantial mental stuff than this . 
Nevertheless , I would advise you to come to the square , persisted my companion . 
It affects us all , and who knows ? may affect you more than any . 
Ay , I said , hungry , good friend , and with all the zest which an empty purse lends to that condition . 
Then here is what you need , sir , even from here the wine smells good , and the fried fruit would make a mouse's eye twinkle . 
I tell you I have nothing to get me a meal with . 
The stranger seemed to speculate on this for a time , and then he said , I cannot fathom your meaning , sir . 
Buying and selling , gold and money , all these have no mean ing to me . 
Surely the twin blessings of an appetite and food abundant ready and free before you are enough . 
What ! free is it free like the breakfast served out this morning ? Why , of course , said the youth , with mild depreci ation everything here is free . 
Everything is his who will take it , without exception . 
Faster and faster till , as the infection of the dance spread even to the outside groups , I capered too . 
Certainly these Martian girls were blessed with an in gratiating simplicity . 
From what country had I come ? Again the frown dropped down upon my forehead . 
Never did yearn ing babe stretch arms more wistfully to an unattainable mother than I at that moment to my mother earth . 
All her meanness and prosaicness was forgotten , all her im perfections and shortcomings it was home , the one tangible thing in the glittering emptiness of the spheres . 
Womanlike , she had forgotten all about her first question , and now asked another , Will you come to supper with me , stranger ? 'Tis nearly ready , I think . 
Only , as it chances , I have just supped at the public expense . 
Not a taper showed anywhere round its circumference , but a mysterious kind of radiance like sea phosphorescence beamed from the palace porch . 
Who brought her message ? I asked , gazing vaguely round , for none had spoken to us for an hour or more . 
No one , said my companion , gently pushing me up an open way towards the palace steps left clear by the sitting Martians . 
It came direct from her to me this minute . 
But how ? I persisted . 
Nay , said the girl , if we stop to talk like this we shall not be placed before she comes , and thus throw a whole year's knowledge out . 
Then began a strange , weird dance amongst the im agery of the rings , over which my earth planet was begin ning to throw a haze of light . 
At first it was hardly more than a walk , a slow procession round the twin circumfer ences of the centred tripod . 
But soon it increased to an extraordinary graceful measure , a cadenced step without music or sound that riveted my eyes to the dancer . 
When will she stop ? I whispered to my friend under my breath . 
When the earth star rests in the roof niche of the temple it is climbing , she answered back . 
And then ? On the tripod is a globe of water . 
In it she will see the destiny of the year , and will tell us . 
The whiter the water stays , the better for us it never varies from white . 
But we must not talk see ! she is stopping . 
And as I looked back , the dance was certainly ebbing now with such smoothly decreasing undulations , that every heart began to beat calmer in response . 
There was a minute or two of such slow cessation , and then to say she stopped were too gross a description . 
Motion rather died away from her , and the priestess grounded as smoothly as a ship grounds in fine weather on a sandy bank . 
Keenly the girl watched it slide into zenith , then the cloth was snatched from the tripod top . 
They were like the radiant prisms that sometimes flush the surface of a bubble more than aught else for a time . 
But as I watched that mosaic of yellow and purple creep softly to and fro upon the globe it seemed they slowly took form and meaning . 
Then a strange thing happened . 
Heru , who had been crouching in a tremulous heap by the tripod , rose stealthily and passed her hands a few times across the sphere . 
Colour and picture vanished at her touch like breath from a mirror . 
Again all was clear and pellucid . 
Even as the girl spoke , the sphere , which had been beam ing in the centre of the silent square like a mighty white jewel , began to flush with angry red . 
Not a syllable came from her lips , not a movement stirred her body , only that dumb , stupid stare of horror , at the something she saw in the globe . 
There was no mistaking the direction of that silent , imploring appeal . 
In the great red eye of that unholy globe the Martians glimmered like a picture multitude under the red cliff of their ruined palace . 
I glared round at them with contempt for a minute , then sprang forward and snatched the prin cess up . 
It was like pulling a flower up by the roots . 
She was stiff and stark when I lay hold of her , but when I tore her from the magic ground she suddenly gave a piercing shriek , and fainted in my arms . 
Then as I turned upon my heels with her upon my breast my foot caught upon the cloths still wound about the tripod of the sphere . 
Over went that implement of a thousand years of sorcery , and out went the red fire . 
CHAPTER VI Beyond the first flutter of surprise , the Martians had shown no interest in the abrupt termination of the year's divinations . 
Whereon a great lone liness took hold upon me , and , pacing to and fro along the ancient terrace with bent head and folded arms , I bewailed my fate . 
Why , even I , who yesterday was strong , began to come under the spell of it . 
But yesterday the spirit of the old world was still strong within me , yet how much things were now changing . 
The well strung muscles loosening , the heart beating a slower measure , the busy mind drowsing off to listlessness . 
Still engrossed the next morning by these thoughts , I decided I would go to Hath . 
Above those pillars ran a gallery with many windows looking out over the ruined city . 
While at the further end of the chamber stood three broad steps leading to a dais . 
The morning light streamed in on the white cloths . 
It glittered on the glass and the gold they were putting on the trestles , and gave resplendent depths of colour to the ribbon bands round the pillars . 
You , too , are to be wed . 
That is the secret of the urn . 
I want to get a few minutes with your President , Prince Hath . 
He concentrates the fluid intelligence of this sphere , I am told . 
Where , said the girl , could he safer be ? We can always fetch him if we want him , and sunk in blue ob livion he will not come to harm . 
A cheerful view , Miss , which is worthy of the attention of our reformers . 
Nevertheless , I will go to him . 
I have known men tell more truth in that state than in any other . 
Yet it was a lordly tome with an odour of sanctity about it , and lifting it with diffi culty , I noticed on its cover a red stain of mouse's blood . 
Those who put it to this quaint use of mouse trap had already had some sport , but surely never was a mouse crushed before under so much learning . 
What does it say , sweet girl ? I asked . 
The matter is learned , by its feel , and that maid , pursing up her pretty lips , read the title to me The Secret of the Gods . 
The Secret of the Gods , I murmured . 
Oh ! a horrid , dry old book for certain , cried that lady , her pink fingertips falling as lightly on the musty leaves as almond petals on March dust . 
Where shall I begin ? It is all equally dull . 
Dip in , was my answer . 
'Tis no great matter where , but near the beginning . 
He says that which is written in his book is through him but not of him , past criticism and beyond cavil . 
A pregnant passage ! Turn another page , and try again I have an inkling of the book already . 
'Tis poor , silly stuff , said the girl , slipping a hand covertly into my own . 
Why will you make me read it ? I have a book on pomatums worth twice as much as this . 
Nevertheless , dip in again , dear lady . 
What says the next heading ? And with a little sigh at the heaviness of her task , Heru read out SOMETIMES THE GODS THEM SELVES FORGET THE ANSWERS TO THEIR OWN RIDDLES . 
Oh ! Gulliver Jones , she said . 
Make me read no more my soul revolts from the task , the crazy brown letters swim before my eyes . 
So it happened I took her into my heart and gave her the answer she asked for . 
Again I bid her turn the pages , noting as she did so how each chapter was headed by the coloured configuration of a world . 
Read here , I cried , clapping my finger upon the page midway down , where there were some signs looking like Egyptian writing . 
Nay , read , I answered , and down the page her slender fingers went awandering till at a spot of knotted signs they stopped . 
Why , here is something about thy Isis , ex claimed Heru , as though amused at my perspicuity . 
Go on , I said . 
Nay , laughed the other , the little mice in their eager ness have been before you see , all this corner is gnawed away . 
Read on again , I said , where the page is whole those sips of knowledge you have given make me thirsty for more . 
It crossed the il limitable spaces where the herding aerolites swirl forever through space in the wake of careering world , and all their whistling wings answered to it . 
It reverberated through the grey wastes of vacuity , and crossed the dark oceans of the Outside , even to the black shores of the eternal night beyond . 
, strolled into the town again in no very pleasant frame of mind . 
Even with the time available the occasion was always awry for such reflection . 
These dainty triflers made sulking as impossible amongst them as philosophy in a ballroom . 
An other asked me to dance , another to drink pink oblivion with her , and so on . 
The Martians , she said , arranged their calendar by the varying colours of the seasons , and loved blue as an antidote to the generally red and rusty character of their soil . 
As a matter of fact I was something more than that , and had been thinking a good deal of Heru during the day . 
But she was undeniably a lovely girl the more one thought of her the more she grew upon the fancy , and then the preference she had shown myself was very gratifying . 
Yes , I would certainly see this quaint ceremonial , even if I took no leading part in it . 
The great centre hall of the palace was full of a radiant light bringing up its ruined columns and intruding creepers to the best effect when I entered . 
Dinner also was just being served , as they would say in another , and alas ! very distant place , and the whole building thronged with folk . 
But one after another they slipped by , modestly taking their places in the shadows until at last came Princess Heru , and at the sight of her my soul was stirred . 
Strangers sometimes say there are fair women in Seth . 
None till you came and now , as was said a long time ago , 'All is dross that is not Helen . 
That lady laughed a little and said , Men make laws , dear Jones , for women to keep . 
It is the rule , and we must not break it . 
Then , gently tugging at her imprisoned fingers and gathering up her skirts to go , she added , But it might happen that wit here were better than sword . 
A golden pool , I said to myself , a silver fish , and a line of hair . 
What could she mean ? Yet that she meant something , and something clearly of importance , I could not doubt . 
It was of pure gold , round brimmed , and circled about with a string of the blue convolvulus , which implies delight to these people . 
But not so with me . 
None drew , though all were thinking of her , as I could tell in my fingertips . 
Keener and keener grew the suspense as name after name was told and each slim white damsel skipped to the place allotted her . 
And now at last it was my turn . 
The great urn , blazing golden , through its rosy covering , was in front , and all eyes on me . 
Presently she asked , Did that deed of mine , the hair in the urn , offend you , stranger ? Offend me , lady ! I laughed . 
I risked much for you and broke our rules . 
Why , no doubt that was so , but 'tis the privilege of your kind to have some say in this little matter of giving and taking in marriage . 
I only marvel that your countrywomen submit so tamely to the quaintest game of chance I ever played at . 
Ay , and it is women's nature no doubt to keep the laws which others make , as you have said yourself . 
Yet this rule , lady , is one broken with more credit than kept , and if you have offended no one more than me , your penance is easily done . 
These newcomers were utterly unlike any others a fright ful vision of ugly strength amidst the lolling loveliness all about . 
Meanwhile Hath was on foot , pale and obsequious like others in the presence of those dread ambassadors , but more collected , I thought . 
, they wiped their fierce lips upon their furry sleeves , and the leader began reciting the tribute for the year . 
I wonder how the Martian boys will like this postscript , and chin on hand , and eyes that would hardly stay open , I watched to see what would happen next . 
A very pretty compliment ! I thought , too dull to see what was coming quickly , and handsome of Hath , all things considered . 
I was sober enough then . 
We stared at each other for a minute , and then I felt the wine fumes roaring in my head I rushed at him and closed . 
It was like embracing a moun tain bull , and he responded with a hug that made my ribs crackle . 
I remember seeing him there on hands and knees , and then the liquor I had had would not be denied . 
In vain I drew my hands across my drooping eyelids , in vain I tried to master my knees that knocked together . 
The spell of the love drink that Heru , blushing , had held to my lips was on me . 
They peeped and peered all about the room , then one said , Is Princess Heru with you , sir ? No , I answered roughly . 
But Heru was not there and little I cared for twittering finches or sighing damsels . 
With hasty feet I rushed down the hall out into the cool , sweet air of the planet morning . 
I would not listen to more . 
Think how fine it will look to bring her back before yon sleepy fellows have found their weapons . 
Wherever I looked eyes dropped and timid hands fidgeted as their owners backed off from my dangerous en thusiasm . 
But it was too late . 
It was Heru her self , and the rogues were ladling her on board like so much sandal wood or cotton sheeting . 
But all alone what could I do ? That last red beast turned on my blade , and as he fell dragged me half down with him . 
I staggered up , and tugging the metal from him turned on the next . 
As I turned to hit him standing on the slippery thwart , another rogue crept up behind and let drive with a club he had in hand . 
The cud gel caught me sideways on the head , a glancing shot . 
It was better than nothing perhaps , yet it was a poor awakening . 
It was a wet couch , sodden and chilly , but as the freshening evening wind blew on my face and the dark ening water lapped against my forehead I revived more fully . 
With a groan I dropped back upon my raft and watched the islands slipping by , while over my feet the southern sky darkened to purple . 
Closer and closer we came , one of us drifting helplessly , and the other swimming strongly for the islands . 
Quick as thought the beast twisted his head aside and tossed his antlers so that the try was fruitless . 
CHAPTER IX I landed , stiff enough as you will guess , but pleased to be on shore again . 
The forest was so close to the sea , one could not advance without entering it , and once within its dark arcades every way looked equally gloomy and hopeless . 
Never was there such an infernal chorus as that which played up the Martian stars . 
Away on the hills two rival monsters were calling to each other in tones so hollow they seemed as I listened to penetrate through me , and echo out of my heart again . 
Yet I was desperately sleepy , my sword hung heavy as lead at my side , my eyelids drooped , and so at last I dozed uneasily for an hour or two . 
Then , all on a sudden , I came wide awake with a shock . 
There , on the edge of the amphitheatre , each for the first time ap peared to become aware of the other's presence the foot steps stopped dead . 
Minute after minute passed , yet neither moved . 
There was a sweeping rush in the darkness which I could feel but not see , and with a shock the two gladiators met in the midst of the arena . 
Over and over they went screaming and struggling , and slipping and plunging . 
One of them had killed , and as I sat rooted to the spot I was forced to listen while his enemy tore him up and ate him . 
Many a banquet have I been at , but never an uglier one than that . 
But I was spellbound , and remained listening to the heavy munch of blood stained jaws until presently I was aware other and lesser feasters were coming . 
The big beast had taken himself off by this time , and there must have been several hundreds of these newcomers . 
One wolf like individual brought a mass of hot liver to eat between my feet , but I gave him a kick , and sent him away much to his surprise . 
Gradually , however , the sound of this unholy feast died away , and , though you may hardly believe it , I fell off into a doze . 
It was not sleep , but it served the purpose , and when in an hour or two a draught of cool air roused me , I awoke , feeling more myself again . 
Slowly morning came , and the black wall of forest around became full of purple interstices as the east brightened . 
All my limbs were stiff with cold , my veins emptied by hunger and wounds , and for a space I had not even strength to move . 
But a little rubbing softened my cramped muscles presently and limping painfully down to the place of combat , I surveyed the traces of that midnight fight . 
I will not dwell upon it . 
His heart lay amongst the offal , and my knife came out to cut a meal from it , but I could not do it . 
Three times I essayed the task , hunger and disgust contending for mastery three times turned back in loathing . 
No ! I would go on for certain . 
I was young , in love , and angry , and before those qualifications difficulties became light . 
Meanwhile , the first essential was breakfast of some kind . 
I arose , stretched , put on my half dried clothes , and mount ing a low hummock on the forest edge looked around . 
The sun was riding up finely into the sky , and the sea to the eastward shone for leagues and leagues in the loveliest azure . 
It was nothing so much in itself a thin spiral creeping upwards mast high , then flattening out into a mushroom head but it meant everything to me . 
Where there was fire there must be humanity , and where there was human ity ay , to the very outlayers of the universe there must be breakfast . 
It was a splendid thought I rushed down the hillock and went gaily for that blue thread amongst the reeds . 
But of an owner there was nothing to be seen . 
And here I was again , hungry , sniffing the fragrant breath of a full meal and not a soul in sight I should have been a fool not to have eaten . 
Deeper and deeper , oblivious of all else , until to get the very last drops I lifted the pipkin up and putting back my head drank in that fashion . 
She fetched from the boat four little fishes of the daintiest kind imaginable . 
I spent an hour or two with that amiable individual , and , it is to be hoped , sustained the character of a spiritual visitant with considerable dignity . 
CHAPTER X Off into the forest I went , feeling a boyish elation to be so free nor taking heed or count of the reckless adventure before me . 
The Martian weather for the moment was lovely and the many coloured grass lush and soft under foot . 
Mile after mile I went , heeding the distance lightly , the air was so elastic . 
And well might I stare ! Everything in that forest was wonderful ! There were plants which turned from colour to colour with the varying hours of the day . 
There were green bladder mosses which swam about the surface of the still pools like gigantic frog broods . 
The sunward sides of the tree stems took a glow , and the dew that ran dripping down their mossy sides trickled blood red to earth . 
It was not for me , a sailor , to know much of such things , yet some I could not fail to notice . 
On one grey branch overhead , jutting from a tree stem where a patch of velvet moss made in the morning glint a fairy bed , a won derful flower unfolded . 
It was a splendid bud , ivory white , cushioned in leaves , and secured to its place by naked white roots that clipped the branch like fingers of a lady's hand . 
Even as I looked it opened , a pale white star , and hung pensive and inviting on its mossy cushion . 
From it came such a ravishing odour that even I , at the further end of the great scale of life , felt my pulses quicken and my eyes brighten with cupidity . 
I was in the very act of climbing the tree , but before I could move hand or foot two things happened , whether you take my word for them or no . 
Firstly , up through a glade in the underwood , attracted by the odour , came an ugly brown bird with a capacious beak and shining claws . 
Surely Heaven would not allow him to tamper with so chaste a bud ! My hand reached for a stone to throw at him when happened the second thing . 
He got a grip of the tree and up he went , hand over hand , root over root . 
An other and another vegetable suitor made for that fatal tryst , and as each came up the snap of the brown bird's beak was all their obsequies . 
It proved far closer than expected . 
My first idea was that they were bathing , and fixing my eyes on the tree tops with great propriety , I gave a warning cough . 
At that sound instead of getting to cover , or clothes , all started up and stood staring for a time like a herd of startled cattle . 
And the farther they came forward the more I retired , till we were playing a kind of game of hide and seek round the tree stems . 
Was I the traveller who had come from Seth ? Yes . 
Oh , then that was well . 
They had heard such a traveller was on the road , and had come a little way down the path , as far as might be without fatigue , to meet him . 
Would I eat with them ? these amiable strangers asked , pushing their soft warm fingers into mine and ringing me round with a circle . 
But firstly might they help me out of my clothes ? It was hot , and these things were cumber some . 
Would you like to see where they are grown ? asked an individual basking by my side . 
Grown ! I answered with incredulity . 
Never in my life did I hear of growing boats . 
The cur rent will drift us round the bay , and we can come back when it turns . 
If we wait we shall have to row in both directions , or even walk , and again planetary slothfulness carried the day . 
I patted that one we were upon inside and out . 
But those lazy people took the matter seriously enough . 
Over the blue waters ! they shouted in chorus as I dipped my paddle into the diamond crested wavelets . 
Six hours , adventurous stranger , with the sun behind you ! Then into the broad river behind the yellow sand bar . 
Goodbye ! And waving them adieu , I sternly turned my eyes from delights behind and faced the fascination of perils in front . 
The outlook was anything but cheering . 
And with the darkness came a wondrous cold breath from off the ice fields , blowing through my lowland wrap pings as though they were but tissue . 
That silence was more than I could stand . 
It was against all sea courtesies , and the last chance of learning where I was passing away . 
A single stroke sent me into mid stream , a second brought me within touch of that strange craft . 
It was a flat raft , undoubtedly , though so disguised by flowers and silk trailers that its shape was difficult to make out . 
Then all of a sudden the true meaning of her being there burst upon me , and with a start and a cry I looked around . 
Overhead stars of unearthly bril liancy were coming out in the frosty sky , while on either hand the banks were high and the shadows under them black as ink . 
Well , I am no fine writer . 
I sat down to tell a plain , un varnished tale , and I will not let the weird horror of that ride get into my pen . 
There was no op portunity for action , and , luckily , little time for thought . 
But though it fixed with one instantaneous flash its impression on my mind forever , there was no time to admire it . 
For twenty minutes Fate played with me , and then the deadly suck of the stream got me down again close to where the water began to race for the falls . 
I vowed sav agely I would not go over them if it could be helped , and struggled furiously . 
On the left , in shadow , a narrow beach seemed to lie between the water and the cliff foot towards it I fought . 
At the very first stroke I fouled a raft the occupant thereof came tumbling aboard and nearly swamped me . 
But now it was a fight for life , so him I seized without ceremony by clammy neck and leg and threw back into the water . 
Then another playful Martian butted the behind part of my canoe and set it spinning , so that all the stars seemed to be dancing giddily in the sky . 
With a yell I shoved him off , but only to find his comrades were closing round me in a solid ring as we sucked down to the abyss at ever increasing speed . 
Then I fought like a fury , hacking , pushing , and paddling shorewards , crying out in my excitement , and spinning and bumping and twisting ever downwards . 
For every foot I gained they pushed me on a yard , as though determined their fate should be mine also . 
They crowded round me in a compact circle , their poor flower girt heads nodding as the swift current curtsied their crafts . 
Another minute and I must have gone with them . 
It was too late to think of getting out of the tangle then the water behind was heavy with trailing silks and flowers . 
We were jammed together almost like one huge float and in that latter fact lay my one chance . 
From that I leapt , with such hearty good will as I had never had before , on to a second and third . 
I jumped from the footstool of one Martian to the knee of another , steadying myself by a free use of their nodding heads as I passed . 
And every time I jumped a ship collapsed behind me . 
I will not dwell on the next few minutes , for no one likes to acknowledge that he has been unmanned even for a space . 
When those minutes were over calmness and con sideration returned , and I was able to look about . 
All the opposite cliffs , rising sheer from the water , were in light , their cold blue and white surfaces rising far up into the black starfields overhead . 
Then I turned back to the cliffs behind me . 
There was one of them not ten yards away half in and half out of the ice wall , and setting my teeth I walked over and examined him . 
And there was another further in behind as I peered into the clear blue depth , another behind that one , another behind him just like cherries in a jelly . 
The matter was simple enough when you came to look at it with philosophy . 
The Martians had sent their dead down here for many thousand years and as they came they were frozen in , the bands and zones in which they sat indicating perhaps alternating seasons . 
Then after Nature had been storing them like that for long ages some up heaval happened , and this cleft and lake opened through the heart of the preserve . 
It was very simple , no doubt , but incredibly weird and wonderful to me who stood , the sole living thing in that immense concourse of dead humanity . 
Look where I would it was the same everywhere . 
Those endless rows of frozen bodies lying , sitting , or standing stared at me from every niche and cornice . 
It was a hearty blaze and lit up all the near cliffs with a ruddy jumping glow which gave their occu pants a marvellous appearance of life . 
I wished a little that he had not been quite so near the glassy surface of the ice down which the warmth was bringing quick moisture drops . 
Had he been back there in the blue depths where others were sitting and crouching it would have been much more comfortable . 
I relaxed my grip , but the other man never moved . 
I shook him again , like a terrier with a rat , but he never resented it . 
Had I killed him ? How limp and cold he was ! And then all of a sudden an uneasy feeling came upon me . 
By this time hunger was very aggressive . 
Upriver there was not the remotest chance . 
Not even a Niagara steamer could have forged back against the sluice coming down from the gulch there . 
Had I been a schoolboy with a good breakfast ahead the incident might have been amusing enough . 
The travel ling was mostly done on the seat of my trousers , which consequently became caked with mud and glacial loam . 
Some was accomplished on hands and knees , with now and then a bit down a snow slope , in good , honest head over heels fashion . 
I came to behind a cluster of breast high rocks , and before moving took a look round . 
That quaint old fellow sprang a yard into air as though a spring had shot him up . 
Then , coming down , he stood transfixed at his full height as stiff as a ramrod , staring at me with incredible wonder . 
This would never do ! I wanted him to be my guide , philosopher , and friend . 
Whereat the old fellow stopping suddenly I shot clean over his back , coming down on my shoulder in the gravel . 
But I was much younger than he , and in a minute was in chase again . 
This time I laid hold of his cloak , and the moment he felt my grip he slipped the neck thongs and left me with only the mangy garment in my hands . 
Again we set off , dodging and scampering with all our might upon that frozen bit of beach . 
The activity of that old fellow was marvellous , but I could not and would not lose him . 
Then he got on one side of a flat rock , I the other , and for three or four minutes we waltzed round that slab in the most insane manner . 
But by this time we were both pretty well spent he with age and I with faintness from my long fast , and we came presently to a standstill . 
But the old fellow would not believe . 
Spirits such as you , he said sullenly , need no food , and go whither they will by wish alone . 
I tell you I am not a spirit , and as hungry as I don't particularly want to be again . 
Here , look at the back of my trousers , caked three inches deep in mud . 
He signed to me to eat , and you may depend upon it I was not slow in accepting the invitation . 
They wash from the hands and wrists of those who have lodgings in the crevices of the falls above , he explained . 
After a time the beach here will be thick with them . 
Could I get up whence you came down , they might be gathered by the sackful . 
Come ! there is an eddy still unsearched , and I will show you how they lie . 
But the fact of facts was that slowly the floor of the cleft trended upwards , whilst the sky strip appeared to come downwards to meet it . 
A mile , perhaps , we growled and squeezed up that wonderful gully then with a feeling of incredible joy I felt the clear , outer air smiting upon me . 
We capered till fairly out of breath , and then , slapping him on the back shoulder , I asked whose land all this was about us . 
He replied that it was no one's , all waste from verge to verge . 
What ! was my exclamation . 
You have promised to put me on the way to your big city . 
Come on then , said the little man , gathering up his property . 
This white hillside leads to nowhere we must get into the valley first , and then you shall see your road . 
And right well that quaint barbarian kept his promise . 
CHAPTER XIII It was half a day's march from those glittering snow fields into the low country , and when that was reached I found myself amongst quite another people . 
More than this I cannot say , for there are no places in the world like mess room and quarter deck for forgetting school learn ing . 
As for the inhabitants , they seemed , like my guide , rough , uncouth fellows , but honest enough when you came to know them . 
An introduction , however , was highly desirable . 
I chanced upon the first native as he was gathering reindeer moss . 
Had his aim been a little more careful this humble narrative had never appeared on the Broadway bookstalls . 
And , very reasonably , surprised , the aborigine did as he was bid and cautiously advanced to inspect me . 
My guide's throat must have ached with the repetition of the narrative , but as he made the story redound greatly to his own glory , he put up cheerfully with the hoarseness . 
About nightfall we came to a sea fishers' hamlet , where , after the old man had explained my exalted nature and ven erable antiquity , I was offered shelter for the night . 
My host was the headman , and I must say his bearing towards the supernatural was most unaffected . 
If it had been an Avenue hotel I could not have found more handsome treatment than in that reed thatched hut . 
Afterwards I turned on them , and openly mar velled that so small a geographical distance as there was between that land and this could make so vast a human difference . 
All this land was theirs once , and more and more towards our old home . 
You may still see traces of harbours dug and cities built thousands of years ago , when the Hither folk were living men and women not their shadows . 
And I was just mumbling out excuses while stooping to pick up his golden dentistry , when some one stirring in the hut aroused me . 
I started up on my elbow and looked around . 
Where was I ? For a minute all was confused and dark . 
It was a welcome dip , for I needed the plunge physically and intellectually , but it came to an abrupt conclusion . 
It was only with the greatest difficulty those rough but honest fellows were eventually got to believe me saved . 
Then they hugged me to their hairy chests in turn , and let me go with a traveller's blessing . 
For a mile or two the track was plain enough , through an undulating country gradually becoming more and more wooded with vegetation , changing rapidly from Alpine to sub tropical . 
Mile after mile slipped quickly by as I strode along , whistling Yankee Doodle to myself and revelling in the change . 
With this idea in his mind he gave me a curious piece of information , which , unfortunately , I was never able to follow up . 
I don't think you can be a spirit , he said , critically eyeing my clothes , which were now getting ragged and dirty beyond description . 
They are finer looking things than you , and I doubt if their toes come through their shoes like yours do . 
If you are a wanderer from the stars , you are not like that other one we have down yonder , and he pointed to the southward . 
No , not from there from the one that burns blue in evening between sun and sea . 
My brother saw him about a week ago . 
Now what you say is down right curious . 
I thought I had a monopoly of that kind of business in this sphere of yours . 
I should be tremendously interested to see him . 
No you wouldn't , briefly answered the woodman . 
He is the stupidest fool ever blown from one world to another more stupid to look at than you are . 
Two of them , however , cling to my memory very tenaciously . 
One was a very Circe amongst plants , the horrible charm of which can never be forgotten . 
We were going down a glade when a most ravishing odour fell upon my nostrils . 
It was heavenly sweet yet withal there lurked an incredibly , unexpressibly tempting spice of wickedness in it . 
The moment he caught that ambrosial invitation in the air my woodman spit fiercely on the ground , and taking a plug of wool from his pouch stuffed his nostrils up . 
Then he beckoned me to come away . 
But the odour was too ravishing , I was bound to see whence it arose , and finding me deaf to all warnings , the man reluctantly turned aside down the enticing trail . 
We pushed about a hundred yards through bushes until we came to a little arena full in sunshine where there were neither birds nor butterflies , but a death like hush upon everything . 
And there in the centre of the space stood a plant not unlike a tree fern , about six feet high , and crowned by one huge and lovely blossom . 
It resembled a vast passion flower of incredible splendour . 
There were four petals , with points resting on the ground , each six feet long , ivory white inside , exquisitely patterned with glittering silver veins . 
But the woodman pulled me back . 
Back , stranger ! he cried . 
Those who drink there never live again . 
Blessed oblivion ! If I had a thousand lives the price were still too cheap , and once more I essayed to scramble up . 
But the man was a big fellow , and with nostrils plugged , and eyes averted from the deadly glamour , he seized me by the collar and threw me back . 
Three times I tried , three times he hurled me down , far too faint and absorbed to heed the personal violence . 
Then standing between us , Look , he said , look and learn . 
The moment its limp , dead feet touched the golden pool a shudder passed through the plant , and a bird some where far back in the forest cried out in horror . 
Quick as thought , a spasm of life shot up the tendrils , and like tongues of blue flame they closed round the victim , lapping his miserable body in their embrace . 
That was plant Number One . 
Plant Number Two was of milder disposition , and won a hearty laugh for my friendly woodman . 
In this way we came , later on in the day , to a spot where herbage was somewhat scantier , the grass coarse , and soil shallow . 
Here I espied a tree of small size , apparently withered , but still bearing a few parched leaves on its upper most twigs . 
Now that , quoth the professor , is a highly curious tree , and I should like you to make a close acquaintance with it . 
If you will kindly go down and shake its stem I believe you will learn something interesting . 
We soon reached the cabin where the man lived by himself whilst working in the forest . 
But as a matter of fact the similarity of many details of existence here and there was the most striking of the things I learned whilst in the red planet . 
My host , when he had somewhat disdainfully watched me wash in a rill of water close by , suggested supper , and I agreed with heartiest good will . 
Nothing wonderful ! Oh , Mr. Blue coat ! he said , pranc ing about as he made his hospitable arrangements . 
So ! reach me down yonder bunch of yellow aru fruit , and don't upset that calabash , for all my funniest stories lurk at the bottom of it . 
And right merry we were that evening . 
The host was a jolly good fellow , and his ale , with a pleasant savour of mint in it , was the heartiest drink I ever set lips to . 
We talked and laughed till the very jackals yapped in sympathy outside . 
The greater the commonplace the larger his joy . 
My friend was glum the next morning , as they who stay over long at the supper flagon are apt to be . 
Your way is easy , friend , as long as you keep to the straight path and have yonder two humped mountain in front . 
To the left is the sea , and behind the hill runs the canal and road by which all traffic comes or goes to Ar hap . 
By the great Jove , that sounds promising ! I would like to see that town if my errand were not so urgent . 
But the old fellow shook his shaggy head and turned a shade yellower . 
It is no place for decent folk , he growled . 
My word , that was a holocaust ! Couldn't I drop in there to lunch ? It would make a fine paper for an anti quarian society . 
Do as I bid you , son . 
You are too young and green to go on ventures by yourself . 
Keep to the straight road shun the swamps and the fairy forest , else will you never see Ar hap . 
And as I have very urgent and very important business with him , comrade , no doubt your advice is good . 
I will call on Princess Yang some other day . 
And now goodbye ! Rougher but friendlier shelter than you have given me no man could ask for . 
I am downright sorry to part with you in this lonely land . 
I confess I sighed while turning into the forest , and looked back more than once at his retreating form . 
Small birds in that quaint atmospheric haze looked like condors , butterflies like giant fowl , and the sim plest objects of the forest like the imaginations of a disordered dream . 
Behind that gauzy hallucination a fine white mist came up , and the sun spread out flat and red in the sky , while the pent in heat became almost unendurable . 
But what would you ? I have forgotten , and am too virtuous to draw on my imagination , as it is sometimes said other travellers have done when picturesque facts were deficient . 
Presently I spoke , and the worker looked up , not too pleased at being thus interrupted . 
But he was easy of propitiation , and over a handful of dried raisins communi cative . 
And cracking nuts between two stones one day a flint shattered , and there on the grass was the golden secret of the edge the thing that has made man what he is . 
I saw in an instant how it was . 
The club had been a sapling , and the sapling's roots had grown about and circled with a splendid grip a lump of native flint . 
With a leap from where I sat I flew at that hairy beast , and sinking my fists deep in his throttle , shook him till his eyes blazed with delirious fires . 
But , as it turned out , the morning's haze developed a strong mist ere the afternoon was half gone , through which it was impossible to see more than twenty yards . 
The incident was only important from what follows . 
Tired , footsore , and dejected , I struggled on a little further . 
Oh for a cab , I laughed bitterly to myself . 
Oh for even the humble necessary omnibus of civilisation . 
It was as though scores of babes in pain were dropping to sleep on their mothers' breasts , and all hushing their sor rows with one accord in a common melancholy chorus . 
Nevertheless , here was what I was looking for where there were weeping children there must be habitations , and shelter , and splendid thought ! supper . 
Poor little babes ! their crying was the deadliest , sweetest thing in sorrows I ever listened to . 
I had taken the forbidden road after all . 
What was I to do ? Without all was black and cheerless , inside there was at least shelter . 
Wet and cold , my courage was not to be put down by the stories of a silly savage I would go on whatever happened . 
At once I thought of what the woodcutter had seen , but was too wet and sulky by this time to care . 
The fascination of the place was on me , and dropping into rear of the march , I went forward with it . 
The big pile was a mass of fallen masonry , which , from the broken pillars all about , might have been a palace or temple once . 
I dreamed that night that a woman , with a face as white as ivory , came and bent over me . 
It was cavernous chaos on every side magnificent architecture reduced to the confusion of a debris heap , only the hollow chambers being here and there preserved by massive columns meeting overhead . 
Twenty minutes' scrambling brought me to a place where the fallen jambs of a fine doorway lay so close together that there was barely room to pass between them . 
The whole floor was mottled with them scores and hundreds of bones and those poor little relics of humanity jutting out of the sand everywhere . 
There were not many , but enough to make the proud sim plicity of that circlet glisten like a little band of fire a gleaming halo on her dead forehead infinitely fascinating . 
At her sides were two other little bleached human flowers , and I stood before them for a long time in silent sympathy . 
After that I went more cheerfully into the outside sun shine , and setting my clothes to dry on a stone , took stock of the situation . 
Here was reality and a chance of getting back to civilisation . 
A light breakfast of soft green nuts , plucked on the way , and then the ground began to bend upwards and the woods to thin a little . 
With infinite ardour , just before mid day , I scrambled on to a bare knoll on the very hillside , and fell exhausted before the top could be reached . 
I could smell the scent of it even here , and my sailor heart rose in pride at the companion ship of that alien ocean . 
There was also other satisfaction at hand . 
He looked me up and down without emotion , then , falling into the common mistake , said , This is not a hostel for ghosts , sir . 
We do not board and lodge phantoms here this is a dry fish shop . 
Thrice blessed trade ! I answered . 
But he shook his head . 
Look here , I will pay in advance . 
Will that get me a meal ? and , whipping out my knife , cut off another of my fast receding coat buttons . 
The man took it with great interest , as I hoped he would , the yellow metal being apparently a very scarce commodity in his part of the planet . 
Such a pretty thing is well worth a meal if , indeed , you can stomach our rough fare . 
Give him some of your best , for he has paid well . 
It's the worst part of her , though she is mighty proud of it . 
Go in and she will see you do not come out hungry , and the Thither man returned calmly to his honey stick . 
The woman was the first I had seen of the outer race , and better than might have been expected in appearance . 
She eyed me sulkily for a minute , then her frown gradually softened , and the instinctive love of the woman for the supernatural mastered her other feelings . 
Is that how you looked in another world ? she asked . 
Yes , exactly , cap to boots . 
What do you think of the attire , ma'am ? Not much , replied the good woman frankly . 
It could not have been becoming even when new , and you appear as though you had taken a muddy road since then . 
Such a meal as a hungry man might consider himself fortunate to meet with any day . 
Here was news ! Heru , the prize and object of my wild adventure , close at hand and well . 
One or other alternative were better than going to torture and death . 
Do you know anything of her ? Yes , I answered gloomily . 
I have seen her once or twice away in Seth . 
I must say you are well conditioned for a spirit . 
Nor was my confidence misplaced . 
The woman , as I guessed , was touched somewhere back in her female heart by my melting love tale , by my anxiety and Heru's peril . 
Besides , a ghost in search of a fairy lady and such the slender folk of Seth were still considered to be by the race which had supplanted them this was romance indeed . 
To be brief , that good woman proved invaluable . 
Sickle cold , sword hot , was one of their proverbs , meaning thereby that in peaceful times they were lambs , however lionlike they might be in contest . 
This was reassuring , but as to recovering the lady , that was another matter over which the good woman shook her head . 
Briefly , though I should probably have gone forward in any case out of sheer obstinacy , had it been to certain destruction , this better aspect of the situation hastened my resolution . 
It was not altogether a romantic approach to the dungeon of an imprisoned beauty , but it was practical , which is often better if not so pleasant . 
and then again after a pause How high , how high Oh , ho , oh , Oh , ho , oh . 
the which was infinitely sleep provoking if not a refrain of a high intellectual order . 
The human mind is of but limited capacity after all , and such freaks of fortune are beyond its conception . 
There is little to record of that voyage . 
This water was bitterly salt and joined an other sea on the other side of the Martian continent . 
It was as peaceful as could be in the first morning light , and to me over all there was the inexpressible attraction of the unknown . 
Another silent dip or two of the oars and the colour ahead crystallised into a town . 
If I said it was like an African village on a large scale , I should probably give you the best description in the fewest words . 
I , indeed , was apparently the least interesting item of the cargo , and this was embarrassing . 
No hero likes to be ne glected , it is fatal to his part . 
Once I remember seeing a squatting , life size heathen idol hoisted from a vessel's hold and deposited on a sugar box on a New York quay . 
I thought of that lonely image as al most as lonely I stood on the Thither men's quay , without the support of friends or heroics , wondering what to do next . 
And you too , sir . 
Oh , it is lovely to see one so newly from home , and free seeming not a slave . 
Yes , said my new friend , that is yours . 
I smelt the sweetmeat coming up the hill , and crossed the grass until I found you here asleep . 
Oh , it was lovely ! I took it from your pocket , and white Seth rose up before my swimming eyes , even at the scent of it . 
May I , please , nibble a little piece ? Eat it all , my lass , and welcome . 
How came you here ? But I can guess . 
Do not answer if you would rather not . 
Ay , but I will . 
It is not every day I can speak to ears so friendly as yours . 
I am a slave , chosen for my luckless beauty as last year's tribute to Ar hap . 
And now ? And now the slave of Ar hap's horse keeper , set aside to make room for a fresher face . 
Poor comrade in exile , I only know her as yet by sympathy . 
Oh , how splendid if she gave herself of free will to this slavery to end it once for all . 
Was it so ? I think , Si , your princess could not have known of that tradition she did not come willingly . 
Besides , I am come to fetch her back , if it may be , and that spoils the look of sacrifice . 
Have you a great army at hand ? But I only shook my head , and , touching my sword , said that here was the only army coming to rescue Heru . 
Whereon the lady replied that she thought my valour did me more honour than my discretion . 
I am here on a hare brained errand , playing knight errant in a way that shocks my common sense . 
But since the matter has gone so far I will see it through , or die in the attempt . 
Your bully lord shall either give me Heru , stock , lock , and block , or hang me from a yard arm . 
But I would rather have the lady . 
Come , you will help me and , as a beginning , if she is in yonder shanty get me speech with her . 
Poor Si's eyes dilated at the peril of the suggestion , and I saw the sluggish Martian nature at war against her better feelings . 
But presently the latter conquered . 
I will try , she said . 
I will try to help you and if they kill me for it why , that will not matter much . 
And forthwith in that blazing forenoon under the flickering shadow of the trees we put our heads together to see what we might do for Heru . 
It was not much for the moment . 
Here I made myself comfortable , and awaited the return of the sovereign as placidly as might be . 
Meanwhile fate was playing into my feeble hands . 
I have said it was hot weather . 
At first this seemed but an outcome of the Martian climate , but as the hours went by the heat developed to an incredible extent . 
Also that red glare previously noted in the west grew in intensity , till , as the hours slipped by , all the town was staring at it in panting horror . 
But that Martian glare was more sombre and terrible than either . 
What is it ? I asked of poor Si , who came out gasping to speak to me by the gate house . 
Perhaps , she added , with a sudden flash of inspiration , it comes by your machinations for Heru's help . 
No ! If not by your wish , then , in the name of all you love , set your wish against it . 
This is purely my own opinion , and I have not yet submitted it to the kindly authorities of the Lick Obser vatory for verification . 
CHAPTER XVII The evening of the second day had already come , when Ar hap arrived home after weekending amongst a tribe of rebellious subjects . 
But any imposing State entry which might have been intended was rendered impossible by the heat and the threat of that baleful world in the western sky . 
It was a lurid but disordered spectacle which I wit nessed from my room in the gate house just after nightfall . 
The very leaves were dropping from the trees , and the luxuriant growths of the day before looked as though a simoon had played upon them . 
I staggered back in disgust , and found some show of official activity about the palace . 
Heaven's own particular blessing on his prayers , my friend , I said to the man who told me this . 
Is there a chance of myself being heard at the throne ? Your peculiar climate tempts me to hurry up with my business and begone if I may . 
Not only may you be heard , sir , but you are sum moned . 
The king has heard of you somehow , and sent me to find and bring you into his presence at once . 
So be it , I said , too hot to care what happened . 
I have no levee dress with me . 
I lost my luggage check some time ago , but if you will wait outside I will be with you in a moment . 
The heat was tre mendous , the odour of Thither men and the ill dressed hides they wore almost overpowering . 
Good morning , your majesty , I said , walking boldly up to the lower step of the dais . 
Good morning , most singular looking vagrant from the Unknown , answered the monarch . 
I do not know whether your majesty is aware how she came here , but it is a highly discreditable incident in what is doubtless your otherwise blameless reign . 
It was a dirty trick , and all the worse because it was inspired by malice , which is the meanest of all weaknesses . 
What would you do ? I do not know what prompted the reply . 
Only if you do not give the maid back , why , then And I stopped as though the sequel were too painful to put into words . 
Again that superstitious monarch of a land thronged with malicious spirits called up his magician , and , after they had consulted a moment , turned more cheerfully to me . 
Now I will set you an errand , and give you five minutes to do it in . 
Five minutes ! I exclaimed in incautious alarm . 
Five minutes , said the monarch savagely . 
What can I do for your majesty ? The king consulted with the rogue at his elbow , and then nodding and chuckling in expectancy of his triumph , addressed me . 
Listen , he cried , smiting a huge hairy hand upon his knee , listen , and do or die . 
Bring me that fillet here within five minutes and the maid is yours . 
I started , and stared hard in amazement . 
Surely your mightiness is not daunted by so simple a task , scowled the sovereign , playing with the hilt of his huge hunting knife , and all amongst your friends' kindred too . 
On a hot day like this it ought to be a pleasant saunter for a spirit such as yourself . 
But Ar hap was too quick for her . 
I will not yield my prize on one throw of the dice . 
Another task you must do . 
Once might be chance , but such chance comes not twice . 
You swore to give me the maid this time . 
The king writhed , and begged me with a sign to desist . 
We have no wish to anger you . 
Do us this other task and none will doubt that you are a potent spirit , and even I , Ar hap , will listen to you . 
And on the tomb is she who was once queen there , and by her lies her crown . 
Quick ! oh you to whom all dis tances are nothing , and who see , by your finer essence , into all times and places . 
Away to that city ! Jostle the memories of the unclean things that hide in its shadows ask which amongst them knows where dead Queen Yang still lies in dusty state . 
Get guides amongst your comrade ghosts . 
Find Queen Yang , and bring me here in five minutes the bloody circlet from her hair . 
Then , and then for the first time , I believed the planet was haunted indeed , and I myself unknowingly under some strange and watchful influence . 
Whereon Ar hap , obviously very well content to change the subject , rose , and , coming down from the dais , gave me his hand . 
I cannot deny , stranger , he said , that you have done all that has been asked of you , and the maid is fairly yours . 
Yet before you take away the prize I must have some as surance of what you yourself will do with her . 
But No , no , said the king , waving his hand . 
Be content with your advantage . 
And now to business more important than ten thousand silly wenches , and gathering up his robes over his splendid war gear the wood king stalked haughtily from the hall . 
CHAPTER XVIII Hotter and hotter grew that stifling spell , more and more languid man and beast , drier and drier the parching earth . 
All the water gave out on the morning after I had bearded Ar hap in his den , and our strength went with it . 
No earthly heat was ever like it , and it drank our vitality up from every pore . 
Water there was down below in the bitter , streaming gulf , but so noisome that we dared not even bathe there here there was none but the faintest trickle . 
All discipline was at an end all desire save such as was born of thirst . 
We prayed for rain and respite . 
Ar hap had prayed with a wealth of picturesque ceremonial . 
We had all prayed and cursed by turns , but still the heavens would not relent , and the rain came not . 
At last the stifling heat and vapour reached an almost intolerable pitch . 
Fitful showers of rain , odorous and heavy , but unsatisfying , fell , and birds and beasts of the woodlands came slinking in to our streets and courtyards . 
Ever since the sky first darkened our own animals had become strangely familiar , and now here were these wild things of the woods slinking in for companion ship , sagheaded and frightened . 
At another time this might have been embarrassing then it seemed pure commonplace . 
All along the tall stockades apes sat sad and listless , and on the roof ridges storks were dying . 
Our common sorrow made us as sociable as though I were Noah , and Ar hap's palace mound another Ararat . 
Hour after hour I sat amongst all these lesser beasts in the hot darkness , waiting for the end . 
But slower and slower came the dripping water , more and more intolerable the heat . 
At last I could stand it no longer . 
I was past active reviling my head swam my reason was clouded . 
No ! I would not stand it any longer . 
So once again the leathern mug was fetched and carried through the prostrate guards to where the Martian girl lay , like a withered flower , upon her couch . 
Poor Si put her aching lips to the cup and tilted it a little , then passed it to her mistress . 
Was I a coward to leave Heru so ? Ought I not to stay and see it out to the bitter end ? Well , I would compound with Fate . 
I would give the malicious gods one more chance . 
I would put the cup down again , and until seven drops had fallen into it I would wait . 
I turned grimly to the spout and saw the first drop fall , then another , and another later on , but still no help came . 
There was a long rift in the clouds now , and a glare like that from an open furnace door was upon me . 
I had noticed when I came to the spring how the comet which was killing us hung poised exactly upon the point of a dis tant hill . 
But the fourth drop fell , and he was big as ever . 
The sixth drop gathered , and fell already the seventh was like a seedling pearl in its place . 
The dying wolf yanked affectionately at my hand , but I put her by and undid my tunic . 
Big and bright that drop hung to the spout lip another minute and it would fall . 
Then my own senses gave out , and dropping down by them I remembered no more . 
It ran across the cloudy vault as though the very sky were being ripped apart , rolling in mighty echoes here and there before it died away . 
Then came the lightning again , lighting up everything as though it were daytime . 
To and fro the green blaze rocked between the thunder crashes . 
It struck a house a hundred yards away , stripping every shingle from the roof better than a master builder could in a week . 
When I had drunk , I picked up an earthen crock , filled it , and went to Heru . 
It was a rough drinking vessel for those dainty lips , and an indifferent draught , being as much mud as aught else , but its effect was wonderful . 
At the first touch of that turgid stuff a shiver of delight passed through the drowsy lady . 
At the second she gave a sigh , and her hand tightened on my arm . 
Then she sat up , and taking the basin from me drank as never lady drank before , and soon was almost her self again . 
All through the fiery time we had just had the chance of escaping with the fair booty yonder had been present . 
Without her , flight would have been easy enough , but that was not worth considering for a moment . 
Yet what did it avail me ? Heru was helpless , my own spirit burnt in a nerveless frame , and so we stayed . 
But with rain strength came back to both of us . 
In fact , directly my strength returned with the cooler air , I made up my mind to the venture and went to Heru , who by this time was much recovered . 
To her I whispered my plot , and that gentle lady , as was only natural , trembled at its dangers . 
Therefore , though the forest roads are dread ful , and Seth very far away , I will come I give myself into your hands . 
Do what you will with me . 
Then the sooner the better , princess . 
Every instant was of value . 
There I hid royal Seth between two piles of merchandise , and went to look for a boat suitable to our needs . 
Yet I must needs go and well nigh spoil everything by over solicitude for my charge . 
Right on top of the steps was a man with a lantern , and half a glance showed me it was the harbour master met with on my first landing . 
Good evening , he said suspiciously . 
May I ask what you are doing on the quay at such an hour as this ? Doing ? Oh , nothing in particular , just going out for a little fishing . 
Well , I answered , getting into a nice temper , for I had been very much harrassed of late , put it at that . 
What would you do if it were so ? Call up my rain drunk guards , and give you in charge as a thief caught meddling with the king's property . 
Thanks , but as my interviews with Ar hap have al ready begun to grow tedious , we will settle this little matter here between ourselves at once . 
And without more to do I closed with him . 
There was a brief scuffle and then I got in a blow upon his jaw which sent the harbour master flying back head over heels amongst the sugar bales and potatoes . 
Without waiting to see how he fared I ran down the steps , jumped on board , loosened the rope , and pushed out into the river . 
Just before dawn , however , with a thin mist on the water and flocks of a flamingo like bird croaking as they flew southward overhead , we were nearly captured again . 
It was one of Ar hap's war canoes toiling up stream . 
Heru and I ducked down into the haze like dab chicks and held our breath . 
Straight on towards us came the toiling ship , the dip of oars resonant in the hollow fog and a ripple babbling on her cutwater plainly discernible . 
But I saw it move . 
That must have been in dreams . 
What is all that talking about ? growled a sleepy voice of authority from the stern . 
Bow man , sir , says he can see a boat . 
When she learned I had robbed the lion of his prey and taken his new wife singlehanded from the dreaded Ar hap her astonishment was unbounded . 
Quick ! said the fishwife , or we are all lost . 
Into your canoe and paddle up this creek . 
It runs out to the sea behind the town , and at the bar is my man's fishing boat amongst many others . 
Lie hidden there till he comes if you value your lives . 
So in we got , and while that good Samaritan went back to her house we cautiously paddled through a deserted backwater to where it presently turned through low sandbanks to the gulf . 
At first he was sullen , not unreasonably alarmed at the danger into which his good woman was running him . 
But when he set eyes on Heru he softened immediately . 
Prob ably that thick bodied fellow had never seen so much female loveliness in so small a bulk in all his life , and , being a man , he surrendered at discretion . 
In with you , then , he growled , since I must needs risk my neck for a pair of runaways who better deserve to be hung than I do . 
The town is already full of soldiers looking for you , and it will be short shrift for us all if you are seen . 
What was to prevent these new friends giving us away ? They knew we had no money to recompense them for the risk they were running . 
They were poor , and a splendid reward , wealth itself to them , would doubtless be theirs if they betrayed us even by a look . 
Yet somehow I trusted them as I have trusted the poor before with the happiest results , and telling myself this and comforting Heru , I lis tened and waited . 
Minute by minute went by . 
It seemed an age since the fisherman had gone , but presently the sound of voices inter rupted the sea's murmur . 
Luckily even in that moment of agony I kept still , and another peep showed the men were now wandering about rather aimlessly . 
Nearer they came and nearer , my heart beating fast as they strolled amongst the boats until they were actually larking round the one next to ours . 
A minute or two of this , and another footstep crunched on the pebbles , a quick , nervous one , which my instinct told me was that of our returning friend . 
Yes , said the man gruffly . 
Let's go with him , cried several voices . 
Here , old dried haddock , will you take us if we help haul your nets for you ? No , I won't . 
Your ugly faces would frighten all the fish out of the sea . 
And yours , you old chunk of dried mahogany , is meant to attract them no doubt . 
Let's tie him to a post and go fishing in his boat ourselves , some one suggested . 
Meanwhile two of them began rocking the cobble violently from side to side . 
This was awful , and every moment I expected the net and the sail which our friend had thrown down unceremoniously upon us would roll off . 
Oh , stop that , said the Martian , who was no doubt quite as well aware of the danger as we were . 
The tide's full , the shoals are in the bay stop your nonsense , and help me launch like good fellows . 
Well , take two of us , then . 
We will sit on this heap of nets as quiet as mice , and stand you a drink when we get back . 
That's a pity , I thought to myself , for if they take to fighting it will be six to one long odds against our chances . 
You know the fleet will be down directly , and Ar hap has promised something worth having to the man who can find that lost bit of crackling of his . 
It's my opinion she's in the town , and I for one would rather look for her than go haddock fishing any day . 
Right you are , mates , said our friend with visible relief . 
Ah , she will understand , and bless your soft hearts and heads while you drink it she's a cute one is my missus . 
And aren't you afraid to leave her with us ? Not I , my daisy , unless it were that a sight of your pretty face might give her hysterics . 
Now lend a hand , your accursed chatter has already cost me half an hour of the best fishing time . 
Here our friend turned back . 
I gave him another gold button from my coat , and the princess a kiss upon either cheek , which he seemed to like even more than the button . 
It was small payment , but the best we had . 
Doubtless he got safely home , and I can but hope that Providence somehow or other paid him and his wife for a good deed bravely done . 
CHAPTER XX It was like turning into a hothouse from a keen winter walk , our arrival at the beautiful but nerveless city after my life amongst the woodmen . 
They were just delighted to have the princess back , and that was the end of it . 
Theirs was the joy of a vast nursery let loose . 
I am frankly ashamed of the confession , but I was a sailor ashore , and can only claim the indulgences proper to the situation . 
I drank with those gentle roisterers all through their starlit night , and if we stopped when morning came it was more from weariness than virtue . 
Then the yellow robed slaves gave us the wine of recovery alas ! my faithful An was not amongst them and all through the day we lay about in sodden happiness . 
Towards nightfall I was myself again , not unfortunately with the headache well earned , but sufficiently remorseful to be in a vein to make good resolutions for the future . 
Surely we are not going to be put to bed so early as this ? No , said that smiling individual , it is the princess . 
We are going to listen to Princess Heru in the palace square . 
She reads the globe on the terrace again tonight , to see if omens are propitious for her marriage . 
She MUST marry , and you know the ceremony has been unavoidably postponed so far . 
Unavoidably postponed ? Yes , Heaven wotted I was aware of the fact . 
If not one , why then obviously an other , 'tis the only rational way to think , and at all events there is the magic globe . 
That may tell us something . 
The whole phantom city's population had drifted to one common centre . 
They had placed another magic globe under a shroud on a tripod for her . 
It stood within the charmed circle upon the terrace , and I was close by , although the princess did not see me . 
Again that weird , fantastic dance commenced , the princess working herself up from the drowsiest undulations to a hur ricane of emotion . 
Then she stopped close by the orb , and seized the corner of the web covering it . 
We saw the globe begin to beam with veiled magnificence at her touch . 
Not an eye wavered , not a thought wandered from her in all that silent multitude . 
Whether Heru understood it or not I cannot say , but she hesitated a moment , then swept the cloth from the orb of her fate . 
Never was surprise so utter , ambush more complete . 
But he was good reality . 
In a minute comedy turned to tragedy . 
I was on my feet in a second , across the intervening space , and with all my force gave the king a blow upon the jaw which sent even him staggering backwards . 
But it was all hopeless chaos with the town already beginning to burn and not a show of fight anywhere which I could join . 
And the search was not long . 
But now there was no time to think , scarce time to act . 
Hath ! I cried , rushing over to him , wake up , your majesty . 
The Thither men are outside , killing and burning ! I know it . 
And the palace is on fire . 
You can smell the reek even here . 
Then what are you going to do ? Nothing . 
My word , that is a fine proposition for a prince ! If you care nothing for town or palace perhaps you will bestir yourself for Princess Heru . 
A faint glimmer of interest rose upon the alabaster calm of his face at that name , but it faded instantly , and he said quietly , The slaves will save her . 
I looked into the book of her fate yesterday . 
But Hath was lost in contempla tion of his shoe strings . 
Come , sir , I said , shaking his majesty by the shoulder , don't be down on your luck . 
There has been some rivalry between us , but never mind about that just now . 
The prin cess wants you . 
I am going to save both her and you , you must come with her . 
No. But you SHALL come . 
No ! By this time the palace was blazing like a bonfire and the uproar outside was terrible . 
As Heru was carried swiftly by she stretched her milk white arms towards the prince and turned her face , lovely as a convolvulus flower even in its pallor , upon him . 
If Hath would not come sober perhaps he might come drunk . 
One went through my cap , two stuck quivering in the throne , and one , winged with owl feather , caught black Hath full in the bosom . 
There was no time for sentiment . 
I shrugged my shoulders , and turning on my heels , with the woodmen close after me , sprang through the near doorway . 
This to my chagrin presently began to trend upwards , whereas I knew Heru was making for the river down below . 
But it was impossible to go back , and whenever I stopped in those deserted passages I could hear the wolflike patter of men's feet upon my trail . 
All was peace here the sky a lovely lavender , a promise of coming morning in it , and a gold spangled curtain of stars out yonder on the horizon . 
Below appeared a sheer drop of a hundred feet into a moat wind ing through thickets of heavy scented convolvulus flowers to the waterways beyond . 
And as I looked a skiff with half a dozen rowers came swiftly out of the darkness of the wall and passed like a shadow amongst the thickets . 
On once more , hotly pursued , until the last corridor ended in two doors leading into a half lit gallery with open win dows at the further end . 
Nor did I bear her or hers the least resentment for making off while there was yet time and leaving me to my fate anything else would have been contrary to Martian nature . 
In burst the first panel , then another , and I could see through the gaps a medley of tossing weapons and wild faces without . 
Short shrift for me if they came through , so in the obstinacy of desperation I set to work to pile old furniture and dry goods against the barricade . 
Still they came on , thrusting spears and javelins through every crevice and my strength began to go . 
The smoke was stifling , and the pains of dis solution in my heart . 
They burst in and clambered up the rampart like black ants . 
I looked round for still one more thing to hurl into the breach . 
My eyes lit on a roll of carpet I seized it by one corner meaning to drag it to the door way , and it came undone at a touch . 
It was but a chance , yet worth trying when all other chances were against me . 
An other moment and they had curled over like an incoming surge . 
When I came to , as reporters say , I was aware the rug had ejected me on solid ground and disappeared , forever . 
Where was I ! It was cool , damp , and muddy . 
There were some iron railings close at hand and a street lamp overhead . 
Very slowly I rose to my feet , and as like a discreditable reveller as could be , climbed the steps . 
The front door was open , and entering the oh , so familiar hall a sound of voices in my sitting room on the right caught my ear . 
Oh no , Mrs. Brown , said one , which I recognised at once as my Polly's , he is dead for certain , and my heart is breaking . 
He would never , never have left me so long without writing if he had been alive , and then came a great sound of sobbing . 
Bless your kind heart , miss , said the voice of my land lady in reply , but you don't know as much about young gentlemen as I do . 
Now you go off to your ma at the hotel like a dear , and forget all about him till he comes back that's MY advice . 
I cannot , I cannot , Mrs. Brown . 
I cannot rest by day or sleep by night for thinking of him for wondering why he went away so suddenly , and for hungering for news of him . 
Oh , I am miserable . 
Gully ! Gully ! Come to me , and then there were sounds of troubled footsteps pacing to and fro and of a woman's grief . 
That was more than I could stand . 
I flung the door open , and , dirty , dishevelled , with unsteady steps , advanced into the room . 
Ahem ! coughed Mrs. Brown , just as I expected ! But I had no eyes for her . 
Humph ! quoth the landlady , that is not what BROWN gets when he forgets his self . 
No , not by any means . 
We went and opened it together , and it was an intimation of my promotion , a much better step than I had ever dared to hope for . 
Holding that missive in my hand a thought suddenly oc curred to me . 
Polly dear , this letter makes me able to maintain you as you ought to be maintained , and there is still a fortnight of vacation for me . 
Polly , will you marry me tomorrow ? No , certainly not , sir . 
Then will you marry me on Monday ? Do you truly , truly want me to ? Truly , truly . 
Then , yes , and the dear girl again came blushing into my arms . 
While we were thus the door opened , and in came her parents who were staying at a neighbouring hotel while in quiries were made as to my mysterious absence . 
Tomorrow her father will ascertain the true state of her feelings after this unpleasant experience , and sub sequently he will no doubt communicate with you on the subject . 
But I was too happy to be lightly put down . 
My dear madam , I replied , I am happy to be able to save her father that trouble . 
Oh yes , Mother , it is true , and if you do not want to make me the most miserable of girls again you will not be unkind to us . 
In brief , that sweet champion spoke so prettily and smoothed things so cleverly that I was forgiven , and later on in the evening allowed to escort Polly back to her hotel . 
And oh ! she said , in her charmingly enthusiastic way when we were saying goodnight , you shall write a book about that extraordinary story you told me just now . 
Only you must promise me one thing . 
What is it ? To leave out all about Heru I don't like that part at all . 
This with the prettiest little pout . 
But , Polly dear , see how important she was to the nar rative . 
I cannot quite do that . 
Then you will say as little as you can about her ? No more than the story compels me to . 
And you are quite sure you like me much the best , and will not go after her again ? Quite sure . 
