Hard Times by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk Hard Times BOOK THE FIRST SOWING CHAPTER I THE ONE THING NEEDFUL 'NOW , what I want is , Facts . 
Teach these boys and girls nothing but Facts . 
Facts alone are wanted in life . 
Plant nothing else , and root out everything else . 
You can only form the minds of reasoning animals upon Facts nothing else will ever be of any service to them . 
This is the principle on which I bring up my own children , and this is the principle on which I bring up these children . 
The emphasis was helped by the speaker's mouth , which was wide , thin , and hard set . 
The emphasis was helped by the speaker's voice , which was inflexible , dry , and dictatorial . 
CHAPTER II MURDERING THE INNOCENTS THOMAS GRADGRIND , sir . 
A man of facts and calculations . 
A man who proceeds upon the principle that two and two are four , and nothing over , and who is not to be talked into allowing for anything over . 
Thomas Gradgrind , sir peremptorily Thomas Thomas Gradgrind . 
It is a mere question of figures , a case of simple arithmetic . 
He seemed a galvanizing apparatus , too , charged with a grim mechanical substitute for the tender young imaginations that were to be stormed away . 
'Girl number twenty , said Mr. Gradgrind , squarely pointing with his square forefinger , 'I don't know that girl . 
Who is that girl ? 'Sissy Jupe , sir , explained number twenty , blushing , standing up , and curtseying . 
'Sissy is not a name , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'It's father as calls me Sissy , sir , returned the young girl in a trembling voice , and with another curtsey . 
'Then he has no business to do it , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
What is your father ? 'He belongs to the horse riding , if you please , sir . 
Mr. Gradgrind frowned , and waved off the objectionable calling with his hand . 
'We don't want to know anything about that , here . 
You mustn't tell us about that , here . 
Your father breaks horses , don't he ? 'If you please , sir , when they can get any to break , they do break horses in the ring , sir . 
'You mustn't tell us about the ring , here . 
Describe your father as a horsebreaker . 
He doctors sick horses , I dare say ? 'Oh yes , sir . 
He is a veterinary surgeon , a farrier , and horsebreaker . 
Give me your definition of a horse . 
'Girl number twenty unable to define a horse ! said Mr. Gradgrind , for the general behoof of all the little pitchers . 
'Girl number twenty possessed of no facts , in reference to one of the commonest of animals ! Some boy's definition of a horse . 
His cold eyes would hardly have been eyes , but for the short ends of lashes which , by bringing them into immediate contrast with something paler than themselves , expressed their form . 
His short cropped hair might have been a mere continuation of the sandy freckles on his forehead and face . 
His skin was so unwholesomely deficient in the natural tinge , that he looked as though , if he were cut , he would bleed white . 
'Bitzer , said Thomas Gradgrind . 
'Your definition of a horse . 
Forty teeth , namely twenty four grinders , four eye teeth , and twelve incisive . 
Sheds coat in the spring in marshy countries , sheds hoofs , too . 
Hoofs hard , but requiring to be shod with iron . 
Age known by marks in mouth . 
'Now girl number twenty , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'You know what a horse is . 
She curtseyed again , and would have blushed deeper , if she could have blushed deeper than she had blushed all this time . 
The third gentleman now stepped forth . 
To continue in fistic phraseology , he had a genius for coming up to the scratch , wherever and whatever it was , and proving himself an ugly customer . 
to the ropes , and fall upon him neatly . 
He was certain to knock the wind out of common sense , and render that unlucky adversary deaf to the call of time . 
And he had it in charge from high authority to bring about the great public office Millennium , when Commissioners should reign upon earth . 
'Very well , said this gentleman , briskly smiling , and folding his arms . 
'Of course , No. Why wouldn't you ? A pause . 
One corpulent slow boy , with a wheezy manner of breathing , ventured the answer , Because he wouldn't paper a room at all , but would paint it . 
'You must paper it , said the gentleman , rather warmly . 
'You must paper it , said Thomas Gradgrind , 'whether you like it or not . 
Don't tell us you wouldn't paper it . 
Do you ever see horses walking up and down the sides of rooms in reality in fact ? Do you ? 'Yes , sir ! from one half . 
'No , sir ! from the other . 
'Of course no , said the gentleman , with an indignant look at the wrong half . 
'Why , then , you are not to see anywhere , what you don't see in fact you are not to have anywhere , what you don't have in fact . 
What is called Taste , is only another name for Fact . 
Thomas Gradgrind nodded his approbation . 
'This is a new principle , a discovery , a great discovery , said the gentleman . 
'Now , I'll try you again . 
Suppose you were going to carpet a room . 
Only a few feeble stragglers said Yes among them Sissy Jupe . 
'Girl number twenty , said the gentleman , smiling in the calm strength of knowledge . 
Sissy blushed , and stood up . 
'So you would carpet your room or your husband's room , if you were a grown woman , and had a husband with representations of flowers , would you ? said the gentleman . 
'Why would you ? 'If you please , sir , I am very fond of flowers , returned the girl . 
'And is that why you would put tables and chairs upon them , and have people walking over them with heavy boots ? 'It wouldn't hurt them , sir . 
They wouldn't crush and wither , if you please , sir . 
'That's it ! You are never to fancy . 
'You are not , Cecilia Jupe , Thomas Gradgrind solemnly repeated , 'to do anything of that kind . 
'Fact , fact , fact ! said the gentleman . 
And 'Fact , fact , fact ! repeated Thomas Gradgrind . 
'You are to be in all things regulated and governed , said the gentleman , 'by fact . 
You must discard the word Fancy altogether . 
You have nothing to do with it . 
You are not to have , in any object of use or ornament , what would be a contradiction in fact . 
You don't walk upon flowers in fact you cannot be allowed to walk upon flowers in carpets . 
You don't find that foreign birds and butterflies come and perch upon your crockery you cannot be permitted to paint foreign birds and butterflies upon your crockery . 
You never meet with quadrupeds going up and down walls you must not have quadrupeds represented upon walls . 
of mathematical figures which are susceptible of proof and demonstration . 
This is the new discovery . 
The girl curtseyed , and sat down . 
She was very young , and she looked as if she were frightened by the matter of fact prospect the world afforded . 
Mr. Gradgrind was much obliged . 
M'Choakumchild , we only wait for you . 
So , Mr. M'Choakumchild began in his best manner . 
He had been put through an immense variety of paces , and had answered volumes of head breaking questions . 
Ah , rather overdone , M'Choakumchild . 
GRADGRIND walked homeward from the school , in a state of considerable satisfaction . 
It was his school , and he intended it to be a model . 
He intended every child in it to be a model just as the young Gradgrinds were all models . 
There were five young Gradgrinds , and they were models every one . 
They had been lectured at , from their tenderest years coursed , like little hares . 
Almost as soon as they could run alone , they had been made to run to the lecture room . 
The first object with which they had an association , or of which they had a remembrance , was a large black board with a dry Ogre chalking ghastly white figures on it . 
No little Gradgrind had ever seen a face in the moon it was up in the moon before it could speak distinctly . 
To his matter of fact home , which was called Stone Lodge , Mr. Gradgrind directed his steps . 
He had virtually retired from the wholesale hardware trade before he built Stone Lodge , and was now looking about for a suitable opportunity of making an arithmetical figure in Parliament . 
Stone Lodge was situated on a moor within a mile or two of a great town called Coketown in the present faithful guide book . 
A very regular feature on the face of the country , Stone Lodge was . 
Not the least disguise toned down or shaded off that uncompromising fact in the landscape . 
A great square house , with a heavy portico darkening the principal windows , as its master's heavy brows overshadowed his eyes . 
A calculated , cast up , balanced , and proved house . 
A lawn and garden and an infant avenue , all ruled straight like a botanical account book . 
Gas and ventilation , drainage and water service , all of the primest quality . 
Iron clamps and girders , fire proof from top to bottom mechanical lifts for the housemaids , with all their brushes and brooms everything that heart could desire . 
Everything ? Well , I suppose so . 
The little Gradgrinds had cabinets in various departments of science too . 
as 'an eminently practical' father . 
He had a particular pride in the phrase eminently practical , which was considered to have a special application to him . 
Whatsoever the public meeting held in Coketown , and whatsoever the subject of such meeting , some Coketowner was sure to seize the occasion of alluding to his eminently practical friend Gradgrind . 
This always pleased the eminently practical friend . 
He knew it to be his due , but his due was acceptable . 
The clashing and banging band attached to the horse riding establishment , which had there set up its rest in a wooden pavilion , was in full bray . 
A flag , floating from the summit of the temple , proclaimed to mankind that it was 'Sleary's Horse riding' which claimed their suffrages . 
Sleary himself , a stout modern statue with a money box at its elbow , in an ecclesiastical niche of early Gothic architecture , took the money . 
Miss Josephine Sleary , as some very long and very narrow strips of printed bill announced , was then inaugurating the entertainments with her graceful equestrian Tyrolean flower act . 
The same Signor Jupe was to 'enliven the varied performances at frequent intervals with his chaste Shaksperean quips and retorts . 
This brought him to a stop . 
'Now , to think of these vagabonds , said he , 'attracting the young rabble from a model school . 
But , Louisa looked at her father with more boldness than Thomas did . 
Indeed , Thomas did not look at him , but gave himself up to be taken home like a machine . 
'What it was like ? 'Yes , father . 
She was a child now , of fifteen or sixteen but at no distant day would seem to become a woman all at once . 
Her father thought so as he looked at her . 
but for her bringing up . 
'I brought him , father , said Louisa , quickly . 
'I asked him to come . 
'I am sorry to hear it . 
I am very sorry indeed to hear it . 
It makes Thomas no better , and it makes you worse , Louisa . 
She looked at her father again , but no tear fell down her cheek . 
'In this degraded position ! I am amazed . 
'I was tired , father . 
I have been tired a long time , said Louisa . 
'Tired ? Of what ? asked the astonished father . 
'I don't know of what of everything , I think . 
'Say not another word , returned Mr. Gradgrind . 
I will hear no more . 
So near was Mr. Bounderby or , if the reader should prefer it , so far off . 
He was a rich man banker , merchant , manufacturer , and what not . 
A big , loud man , with a stare , and a metallic laugh . 
A man made out of a coarse material , which seemed to have been stretched to make so much of him . 
A man with a pervading appearance on him of being inflated like a balloon , and ready to start . 
A man who could never sufficiently vaunt himself a self made man . 
A man who was always proclaiming , through that brassy speaking trumpet of a voice of his , his old ignorance and his old poverty . 
A man who was the Bully of humility . 
He had not much hair . 
'I hadn't a shoe to my foot . 
As to a stocking , I didn't know such a thing by name . 
I passed the day in a ditch , and the night in a pigsty . 
That's the way I spent my tenth birthday . 
Not that a ditch was new to me , for I was born in a ditch . 
A foot of water in it , said Mr. Bounderby . 
'Enough to give a baby cold , Mrs. Gradgrind considered . 
'Cold ? I was born with inflammation of the lungs , and of everything else , I believe , that was capable of inflammation , returned Mr. Bounderby . 
'For years , ma'am , I was one of the most miserable little wretches ever seen . 
I was so sickly , that I was always moaning and groaning . 
I was so ragged and dirty , that you wouldn't have touched me with a pair of tongs . 
Mrs. Gradgrind faintly looked at the tongs , as the most appropriate thing her imbecility could think of doing . 
'How I fought through it , I don't know , said Bounderby . 
'I was determined , I suppose . 
I have been a determined character in later life , and I suppose I was then . 
Here I am , Mrs. Gradgrind , anyhow , and nobody to thank for my being here , but myself . 
Mrs. Gradgrind meekly and weakly hoped that his mother 'My mother ? Bolted , ma'am ! said Bounderby . 
Mrs. Gradgrind , stunned as usual , collapsed and gave it up . 
'My mother left me to my grandmother , said Bounderby 'and , according to the best of my remembrance , my grandmother was the wickedest and the worst old woman that ever lived . 
If I got a little pair of shoes by any chance , she would take 'em off and sell 'em for drink . 
like an indifferently executed transparency of a small female figure , without enough light behind it . 
'She kept a chandler's shop , pursued Bounderby , 'and kept me in an egg box . 
That was the cot of my infancy an old egg box . 
As soon as I was big enough to run away , of course I ran away . 
Then I became a young vagabond and instead of one old woman knocking me about and starving me , everybody of all ages knocked me about and starved me . 
They were right they had no business to do anything else . 
I was a nuisance , an incumbrance , and a pest . 
I know that very well . 
'I was to pull through it , I suppose , Mrs. Gradgrind . 
Whether I was to do it or not , ma'am , I did it . 
I pulled through it , though nobody threw me out a rope . 
Vagabond , errand boy , vagabond , labourer , porter , clerk , chief manager , small partner , Josiah Bounderby of Coketown . 
Those are the antecedents , and the culmination . 
Giles's Church , London , under the direction of a drunken cripple , who was a convicted thief , and an incorrigible vagrant . 
Being heated when he arrived at this climax , Josiah Bounderby of Coketown stopped . 
He stopped just as his eminently practical friend , still accompanied by the two young culprits , entered the room . 
'We were peeping at the circus , muttered Louisa , haughtily , without lifting up her eyes , 'and father caught us . 
'And , Mrs. Gradgrind , said her husband in a lofty manner , 'I should as soon have expected to find my children reading poetry . 
'Dear me , whimpered Mrs. Gradgrind . 
'How can you , Louisa and Thomas ! I wonder at you . 
I declare you're enough to make one regret ever having had a family at all . 
I have a great mind to say I wish I hadn't . 
Then what would you have done , I should like to know ? Mr. Gradgrind did not seem favourably impressed by these cogent remarks . 
'You know , as well as I do , no young people have circus masters , or keep circuses in cabinets , or attend lectures about circuses . 
What can you possibly want to know of circuses then ? I am sure you have enough to do , if that's what you want . 
With my head in its present state , I couldn't remember the mere names of half the facts you have got to attend to . 
'That's the reason ! pouted Louisa . 
'Don't tell me that's the reason , because it can't be nothing of the sort , said Mrs. Gradgrind . 
'Go and be somethingological directly . 
Mrs. Gradgrind was not a scientific character , and usually dismissed her children to their studies with this general injunction to choose their pursuit . 
In truth , Mrs. Gradgrind's stock of facts in general was woefully defective but Mr. Gradgrind in raising her to her high matrimonial position , had been influenced by two reasons . 
Firstly , she was most satisfactory as a question of figures and , secondly , she had 'no nonsense' about her . 
The simple circumstance of being left alone with her husband and Mr. Bounderby , was sufficient to stun this admirable lady again without collision between herself and any other fact . 
So , she once more died away , and nobody minded her . 
to the education of the reason of my family . 
the only faculty to which education should be addressed . 
'There certainly is no reason in looking with interest at a parcel of vagabonds , returned Bounderby . 
'When I was a vagabond myself , nobody looked with any interest at me I know that . 
'Then comes the question said the eminently practical father , with his eyes on the fire , 'in what has this vulgar curiosity its rise ? 'I'll tell you in what . 
'I hope not , said the eminently practical 'I confess , however , that the misgiving has crossed me on my way home . 
'In idle imagination , Gradgrind , repeated Bounderby . 
'A very bad thing for anybody , but a cursed bad thing for a girl like Louisa . 
I should ask Mrs. Gradgrind's pardon for strong expressions , but that she knows very well I am not a refined character . 
Whoever expects refinement in me will be disappointed . 
I hadn't a refined bringing up . 
'Stop a bit ! cried Bounderby , who all this time had been standing , as before , on the hearth , bursting at the very furniture of the room with explosive humility . 
'You have one of those strollers' children in the school . 
'Cecilia Jupe , by name , said Mr. Gradgrind , with something of a stricken look at his friend . 
'Now , stop a bit ! cried Bounderby again . 
'How did she come there ? 'Why , the fact is , I saw the girl myself , for the first time , only just now . 
She specially applied here at the house to be admitted , as not regularly belonging to our town , and yes , you are right , Bounderby , you are right . 
'Now , stop a bit ! cried Bounderby , once more . 
'Louisa saw her when she came ? 'Louisa certainly did see her , for she mentioned the application to me . 
But Louisa saw her , I have no doubt , in Mrs. Gradgrind's presence . 
'Pray , Mrs. Gradgrind , said Bounderby , 'what passed ? 'Oh , my poor health ! returned Mrs. Gradgrind . 
'Turn this girl to the right about , and there's an end of it . 
'I am much of your opinion . 
'Do it at once , said Bounderby , 'has always been my motto from a child . 
When I thought I would run away from my egg box and my grandmother , I did it at once . 
Do this at once ! 'Are you walking ? asked his friend . 
'I have the father's address . 
'I never wear gloves , it was his custom to say . 
'I didn't climb up the ladder in them . 
Shouldn't be so high up , if I had . 
Louisa languidly leaned upon the window looking out , without looking at anything , while young Thomas stood sniffing revengefully at the fire . 
'It's all right now , Louisa it's all right , young Thomas , said Mr. Bounderby 'you won't do so any more . 
I'll answer for it's being all over with father . 
'Always my pet ain't you , Louisa ? said Mr. Bounderby . 
She was still doing this , five minutes afterwards . 
'What are you about , Loo ? her brother sulkily remonstrated . 
'You'll rub a hole in your face . 
'You may cut the piece out with your penknife if you like , Tom . 
I wouldn't cry ! CHAPTER V THE KEYNOTE COKETOWN , to which Messrs . 
Bounderby and Gradgrind now walked , was a triumph of fact it had no greater taint of fancy in it than Mrs. Gradgrind herself . 
Let us strike the key note , Coketown , before pursuing our tune . 
It was a town of machinery and tall chimneys , out of which interminable serpents of smoke trailed themselves for ever and ever , and never got uncoiled . 
The rest of its features were voluntary , and they were these . 
You saw nothing in Coketown but what was severely workful . 
a bell in a birdcage on the top of it . 
The solitary exception was the New Church a stuccoed edifice with a square steeple over the door , terminating in four short pinnacles like florid wooden legs . 
All the public inscriptions in the town were painted alike , in severe characters of black and white . 
Fact , fact , fact , everywhere in the material aspect of the town fact , fact , fact , everywhere in the immaterial . 
A town so sacred to fact , and so triumphant in its assertion , of course got on well ? Why no , not quite well . 
No ? Dear me ! No. Coketown did not come out of its own furnaces , in all respects like gold that had stood the fire . 
First , the perplexing mystery of the place was , Who belonged to the eighteen denominations ? Because , whoever did , the labouring people did not . 
, would induce them to forego their custom of getting drunk . 
Then came the chemist and druggist , with other tabular statements , showing that when they didn't get drunk , they took opium . 
his ruin began , as he was perfectly sure and confident that otherwise he would have been a tip top moral specimen . 
'Which is it , Bounderby ? Mr. Bounderby knew it was somewhere down town , but knew no more respecting it . 
So they stopped for a moment , looking about . 
Almost as they did so , there came running round the corner of the street at a quick pace and with a frightened look , a girl whom Mr. Gradgrind recognized . 
'Stop ! Where are you going ! Stop ! Girl number twenty stopped then , palpitating , and made him a curtsey . 
'Run after ? repeated Mr. Gradgrind . 
'What do you mean , boy ? said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'Was this boy running after you , Jupe ? asked Mr. Gradgrind . 
'Yes , sir , said the girl reluctantly . 
'No , I wasn't , sir ! cried Bitzer . 
'Not till she run away from me . 
But the horse riders never mind what they say , sir they're famous for it . 
You know the horse riders are famous for never minding what they say , addressing Sissy . 
'It's as well known in the town as please , sir , as the multiplication table isn't known to the horse riders . 
Bitzer tried Mr. Bounderby with this . 
'He frightened me so , said the girl , 'with his cruel faces ! 'Oh ! cried Bitzer . 
'Oh ! An't you one of the rest ! An't you a horse rider ! I never looked at her , sir . 
You wouldn't have thought of saying such mischief if you hadn't been a horse rider ? 'Her calling seems to be pretty well known among 'em , observed Mr. Bounderby . 
'You'd have had the whole school peeping in a row , in a week . 
'Truly , I think so , returned his friend . 
'Bitzer , turn you about and take yourself home . 
Jupe , stay here a moment . 
Let me hear of your running in this manner any more , boy , and you will hear of me through the master of the school . 
You understand what I mean . 
The boy stopped in his rapid blinking , knuckled his forehead again , glanced at Sissy , turned about , and retreated . 
'Now , girl , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'take this gentleman and me to your father's we are going there . 
What have you got in that bottle you are carrying ? 'Gin , said Mr. Bounderby . 
'Dear , no , sir ! It's the nine oils . 
'The what ? cried Mr. Bounderby . 
'The nine oils , sir , to rub father with . 
'They bruise themselves very bad sometimes . 
'Serve 'em right , said Mr. Bounderby , 'for being idle . 
She glanced up at his face , with mingled astonishment and dread . 
I didn't get 'em by posture making , but by being banged about . 
There was no rope dancing for me I danced on the bare ground and was larruped with the rope . 
Mr. Gradgrind , though hard enough , was by no means so rough a man as Mr. Bounderby . 
She stopped , at twilight , at the door of a mean little public house , with dim red lights in it . 
'It's only crossing the bar , sir , and up the stairs , if you wouldn't mind , and waiting there for a moment till I get a candle . 
If you should hear a dog , sir , it's only Merrylegs , and he only barks . 
'Merrylegs and nine oils , eh ! said Mr. Bounderby , entering last with his metallic laugh . 
'Pretty well this , for a self made man ! CHAPTER VI SLEARY'S HORSEMANSHIP THE name of the public house was the Pegasus's Arms . 
The Pegasus's legs might have been more to the purpose but , underneath the winged horse upon the sign board , the Pegasus's Arms was inscribed in Roman letters . 
They followed the girl up some steep corner stairs without meeting any one , and stopped in the dark while she went on for a candle . 
They expected every moment to hear Merrylegs give tongue , but the highly trained performing dog had not barked when the girl and the candle appeared together . 
'Father is not in our room , sir , she said , with a face of great surprise . 
'If you wouldn't mind walking in , I'll find him directly . 
They walked in and Sissy , having set two chairs for them , sped away with a quick light step . 
It was a mean , shabbily furnished room , with a bed in it . 
They heard the doors of rooms above , opening and shutting as Sissy went from one to another in quest of her father and presently they heard voices expressing surprise . 
'Father must have gone down to the Booth , sir . 
'What does she mean ! said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'Back in a minute ? It's more than a mile off . 
His legs were very robust , but shorter than legs of good proportions should have been . 
His chest and back were as much too broad , as his legs were too short . 
Where the one began , and the other ended , nobody could have told with any precision . 
'By your leaves , gentlemen , said Mr. E. W. B. Childers , glancing round the room . 
'It was you , I believe , that were wishing to see Jupe ! 'It was , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'His daughter has gone to fetch him , but I can't wait therefore , if you please , I will leave a message for him with you . 
'And when you have made it , you can keep it too , I should think , said Cupid . 
'Kidderminster , stow that ! said Mr. Childers . 
'What does he come here cheeking us for , then ? cried Master Kidderminster , showing a very irascible temperament . 
'If you want to cheek us , pay your ochre at the doors and take it out . 
'Kidderminster , said Mr. Childers , raising his voice , 'stow that ! Sir , to Mr. Gradgrind , 'I was addressing myself to you . 
, that Jupe has missed his tip very often , lately . 
'Has what has he missed ? asked Mr. Gradgrind , glancing at the potent Bounderby for assistance . 
'Offered at the Garters four times last night , and never done 'em once , said Master Kidderminster . 
'Missed his tip at the banners , too , and was loose in his ponging . 
'Didn't do what he ought to do . 
Was short in his leaps and bad in his tumbling , Mr. Childers interpreted . 
'Oh ! said Mr. Gradgrind , 'that is tip , is it ? 'In a general way that's missing his tip , Mr. E. W. B. Childers answered . 
'Nine oils , Merrylegs , missing tips , garters , banners , and Ponging , eh ! ejaculated Bounderby , with his laugh of laughs . 
'Queer sort of company , too , for a man who has raised himself ! 'Lower yourself , then , retorted Cupid . 
'Oh Lord ! if you've raised yourself so high as all that comes to , let yourself down a bit . 
'This is a very obtrusive lad ! said Mr. Gradgrind , turning , and knitting his brows on him . 
'We'd have had a young gentleman to meet you , if we had known you were coming , retorted Master Kidderminster , nothing abashed . 
'It's a pity you don't have a bespeak , being so particular . 
'Tight Jeff or Slack Jeff , it don't much signify it's only tight rope and slack rope . 
You were going to give me a message for Jupe ? 'Yes , I was . 
'Then , continued Mr. Childers , quickly , 'my opinion is , he will never receive it . 
Do you know much of him ? 'I never saw the man in my life . 
'I doubt if you ever will see him now . 
It's pretty plain to me , he's off . 
'Do you mean that he has deserted his daughter ? 'Ay ! I mean , said Mr. Childers , with a nod , 'that he has cut . 
He was goosed last night , he was goosed the night before last , he was goosed to day . 
He has lately got in the way of being always goosed , and he can't stand it . 
'Why has he been so very much Goosed ? asked Mr. Gradgrind , forcing the word out of himself , with great solemnity and reluctance . 
'His joints are turning stiff , and he is getting used up , said Childers . 
'He has his points as a Cackler still , but he can't get a living out of them . 
'A Cackler ! Bounderby repeated . 
'Now , it's a remarkable fact , sir , that it cut that man deeper , to know that his daughter knew of his being goosed , than to go through with it . 
'Good ! interrupted Mr. Bounderby . 
I haven't always occupied my present station of life . 
I know what these things are . 
You may be astonished to hear it , but my mother ran away from me . 
E. W. B. Childers replied pointedly , that he was not at all astonished to hear it . 
'Very well , said Bounderby . 
'I was born in a ditch , and my mother ran away from me . 
There's no family pride about me , there's no imaginative sentimental humbug about me . 
So , with this man . 
He is a runaway rogue and a vagabond , that's what he is , in English . 
'It's all the same to me what he is or what he is not , whether in English or whether in French , retorted Mr. E. W. B. Childers , facing about . 
'I am telling your friend what's the fact if you don't like to hear it , you can avail yourself of the open air . 
You give it mouth enough , you do but give it mouth in your own building at least , remonstrated E. W. B. with stern irony . 
'Don't give it mouth in this building , till you're called upon . 
You have got some building of your own I dare say , now ? 'Perhaps so , replied Mr. Bounderby , rattling his money and laughing . 
'Then give it mouth in your own building , will you , if you please ? said Childers . 
She will never believe it of him , but he has cut away and left her . 
'Pray , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'why will she never believe it of him ? 'Because those two were one . 
Because they were never asunder . 
Because , up to this time , he seemed to dote upon her , said Childers , taking a step or two to look into the empty trunk . 
This walk was common to all the male members of Sleary's company , and was understood to express , that they were always on horseback . 
'Poor Sissy ! He had better have apprenticed her , said Childers , giving his hair another shake , as he looked up from the empty box . 
'Now , he leaves her without anything to take to . 
'It is creditable to you , who have never been apprenticed , to express that opinion , returned Mr. Gradgrind , approvingly . 
'I never apprenticed ? I was apprenticed when I was seven year old . 
'Oh ! Indeed ? said Mr. Gradgrind , rather resentfully , as having been defrauded of his good opinion . 
'I was not aware of its being the custom to apprentice young persons to 'Idleness , Mr. Bounderby put in with a loud laugh . 
How it got into his head , I can't say I can only say that it never got out . 
From the first he had sought to conciliate that gentleman , for the sake of the deserted girl . 
'When Sissy got into the school here , he pursued , 'her father was as pleased as Punch . 
I couldn't altogether make out why , myself , as we were not stationary here , being but comers and goers anywhere . 
I suppose , however , he had this move in his mind he was always half cracked and then considered her provided for . 
'On the contrary , returned Mr. Gradgrind . 
'I came to tell him that her connections made her not an object for the school , and that she must not attend any more . 
Still , if her father really has left her , without any connivance on her part Bounderby , let me have a word with you . 
Upon this , Mr. Childers politely betook himself , with his equestrian walk , to the landing outside the door , and there stood stroking his face , and softly whistling . 
While thus engaged , he overheard such phrases in Mr. Bounderby's voice as 'No . 
I say by no means . 
Think of it , Bounderby , in that point of view . 
like the efforts of a broken old pair of bellows , a flabby surface , and a muddled head which was never sober and never drunk . 
You've heard of my Clown and hith dog being thuppothed to have morrithed ? He addressed Mr. Gradgrind , who answered 'Yes . 
'Well , Thquire , he returned , taking off his hat , and rubbing the lining with his pocket handkerchief , which he kept inside for the purpose . 
'Ith it your intenthion to do anything for the poor girl , Thquire ? 'I shall have something to propose to her when she comes back , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'Glad to hear it , Thquire . 
Not that I want to get rid of the child , any more than I want to thtand in her way . 
I'm willing to take her prentith , though at her age ith late . 
'I dare say not , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'What thall it be , Thquire , while you wait ? Thall it be Therry ? Give it a name , Thquire ! said Mr. Sleary , with hospitable ease . 
'Nothing for me , I thank you , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'Don't thay nothing , Thquire . 
What doth your friend thay ? If you haven't took your feed yet , have a glath of bitterth . 
, who knelt down on the floor to nurse her , and to weep over her . 
'Ith an internal thame , upon my thoul it ith , said Sleary . 
'Now , good people all , said he , 'this is wanton waste of time . 
Let the girl understand the fact . 
Let her take it from me , if you like , who have been run away from , myself . 
Here , what's your name ! Your father has absconded deserted you and you mustn't expect to see him again as long as you live . 
The men muttered 'Shame ! and the women 'Brute ! and Sleary , in some haste , communicated the following hint , apart to Mr. Bounderby . 
'I tell you what , Thquire . 
To thpeak plain to you , my opinion ith that you had better cut it thort , and drop it . 
Mr. Bounderby being restrained by this mild suggestion , Mr. Gradgrind found an opening for his eminently practical exposition of the subject . 
'It is of no moment , said he , 'whether this person is to be expected back at any time , or the contrary . 
He is gone away , and there is no present expectation of his return . 
That , I believe , is agreed on all hands . 
Thick to that ! From Sleary . 
I am willing to take charge of you , Jupe , and to educate you , and provide for you . 
I make is , that you decide now , at once , whether to accompany me or remain here . 
Also , that if you accompany me now , it is understood that you communicate no more with any of your friends who are here present . 
These observations comprise the whole of the case . 
'At the thame time , said Sleary , 'I mutht put in my word , Thquire , tho that both thides of the banner may be equally theen . 
If you like , Thethilia , to be prentitht , you know the natur of the work and you know your companionth . 
Emma Gordon , in whothe lap you're a lying at prethent , would be a mother to you , and Joth'phine would be a thithter to you . 
I never wath much of a Cackler , Thquire , and I have thed my thay . 
appears , on your behalf , to have known and felt that much . 
The last words had a visible effect upon her . 
She stopped in her wild crying , a little detached herself from Emma Gordon , and turned her face full upon her patron . 
In such a case , your father , I apprehend , must find out Mr. 'Thleary . 
Thath my name , Thquire . 
Known all over England , and alwayth paythe ith way . 
'Must find out Mr. Sleary , who would then let him know where you went . 
I should have no power of keeping you against his wish , and he would have no difficulty , at any time , in finding Mr. Thomas Gradgrind of Coketown . 
'Well known , assented Mr. Sleary , rolling his loose eye . 
'You're one of the thort , Thquire , that keepth a prethiouth thight of money out of the houthe . 
But never mind that at prethent . 
Sissy sat all the time upon the ground , still sobbing , and covering her eyes . 
Mr. Gradgrind and his friend Bounderby stood near the door , ready to take her away . 
He wanted nothing but his whip . 
The basket packed in silence , they brought her bonnet to her , and smoothed her disordered hair , and put it on . 
'Now , Jupe , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
Mr. Sleary was reserved until the last . 
'Good bye , my dear ! said Sleary . 
'You'll make your fortun , I hope , and none of our poor folkth will ever trouble you , I'll pound it . 
I with your father hadn't taken hith dog with him ith a ill conwenienth to have the dog out of the billth . 
'There the ith , Thquire , he said , sweeping her with a professional glance as if she were being adjusted in her seat , 'and the'll do you juthtithe . 
Good bye , Thethilia ! 'Good bye , Cecilia ! 'Good bye , Sissy ! 'God bless you , dear ! In a variety of voices from all the room . 
Give it to me ! 'No , no ! she said , in another burst of tears . 
'Oh , no ! Pray let me keep it for father till he comes back ! He will want it when he comes back . 
He had never thought of going away , when he sent me for it . 
I must keep it for him , if you please ! 'Tho be it , my dear . 
Farewell , Thethilia ! My latht wordth to you ith thith , Thtick to the termth of your engagement , be obedient to the Thquire , and forget uth . 
Make the betht of uth not the wurtht . 
BOUNDERBY being a bachelor , an elderly lady presided over his establishment , in consideration of a certain annual stipend . 
Mrs. Sparsit was this lady's name and she was a prominent figure in attendance on Mr. Bounderby's car , as it rolled along in triumph with the Bully of humility inside . 
For , Mrs. Sparsit had not only seen different days , but was highly connected . 
She had a great aunt living in these very times called Lady Scadgers . 
Mr. Sparsit , deceased , of whom she was the relict , had been by the mother's side what Mrs. Sparsit still called 'a Powler . 
The late Mr. Sparsit , being by the mother's side a Powler , married this lady , being by the father's side a Scadgers . 
He inherited a fair fortune from his uncle , but owed it all before he came into it , and spent it twice over immediately afterwards . 
, he did not leave his widow , from whom he had been separated soon after the honeymoon , in affluent circumstances . 
Just as it belonged to his boastfulness to depreciate his own extraction , so it belonged to it to exalt Mrs. Sparsit's . 
It was one of the most exasperating attributes of Bounderby , that he not only sang his own praises but stimulated other men to sing them . 
There was a moral infection of clap trap in him . 
Strangers , modest enough elsewhere , started up at dinners in Coketown , and boasted , in quite a rampant way , of Bounderby . 
Bounderby , said Mrs. Sparsit , 'you are unusually slow , sir , with your breakfast this morning . 
'The girl is now waiting to know , said Mrs. Sparsit , 'whether she is to go straight to the school , or up to the Lodge . 
'She must wait , ma'am , answered Bounderby , 'till I know myself . 
We shall have Tom Gradgrind down here presently , I suppose . 
If he should wish her to remain here a day or two longer , of course she can , ma'am . 
'Of course she can if you wish it , Mr. Bounderby . 
'It's tolerably clear to me , said Bounderby , 'that the little puss can get small good out of such companionship . 
'Are you speaking of young Miss Gradgrind , Mr. Bounderby ? 'Yes , ma'am , I'm speaking of Louisa . 
'Your observation being limited to little puss , said Mrs. Sparsit , 'and there being two little girls in question , I did not know which might be indicated by that expression . 
'Louisa , repeated Mr. Bounderby . 
'You are quite another father to Louisa , sir . 
Mrs. Sparsit took a little more tea and , as she bent her again contracted eyebrows over her steaming cup , rather looked as if her classical countenance were invoking the infernal gods . 
'If you had said I was another father to Tom young Tom , I mean , not my friend Tom Gradgrind you might have been nearer the mark . 
I am going to take young Tom into my office . 
Going to have him under my wing , ma'am . 
'I'm not going to take him at once he is to finish his educational cramming before then , said Bounderby . 
Which , by the by , he probably did know , for he had heard of it often enough . 
'But it's extraordinary the difficulty I have on scores of such subjects , in speaking to any one on equal terms . 
Here , for example , I have been speaking to you this morning about tumblers . 
'I certainly , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit , with a dignity serenely mournful , 'was familiar with the Italian Opera at a very early age . 
'Egad , ma'am , so was I , said Bounderby , with the wrong side of it . 
A hard bed the pavement of its Arcade used to make , I assure you . 
People like you , ma'am , accustomed from infancy to lie on Down feathers , have no idea how hard a paving stone is , without trying it . 
No , no , it's of no use my talking to you about tumblers . 
I should speak of foreign dancers , and the West End of London , and May Fair , and lords and ladies and honourables . 
'I trust , sir , rejoined Mrs. Sparsit , with decent resignation , 'it is not necessary that you should do anything of that kind . 
I hope I have learnt how to accommodate myself to the changes of life . 
But you must confess that you were born in the lap of luxury , yourself . 
Come , ma'am , you know you were born in the lap of luxury . 
'I do not , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit with a shake of her head , 'deny it . 
Mr. Bounderby was obliged to get up from table , and stand with his back to the fire , looking at her she was such an enhancement of his position . 
'And you were in crack society . 
Devilish high society , he said , warming his legs . 
'It is true , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit , with an affectation of humility the very opposite of his , and therefore in no danger of jostling it . 
'You were in the tiptop fashion , and all the rest of it , said Mr. Bounderby . 
'Yes , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit , with a kind of social widowhood upon her . 
Mr. Bounderby , bending himself at the knees , literally embraced his legs in his great satisfaction and laughed aloud . 
Mr. and Miss Gradgrind being then announced , he received the former with a shake of the hand , and the latter with a kiss . 
'Can Jupe be sent here , Bounderby ? asked Mr. Gradgrind . 
So Jupe was sent there . 
On coming in , she curtseyed to Mr. Bounderby , and to his friend Tom Gradgrind , and also to Louisa but in her confusion unluckily omitted Mrs. Sparsit . 
Observing this , the blustrous Bounderby had the following remarks to make 'Now , I tell you what , my girl . 
The name of that lady by the teapot , is Mrs. Sparsit . 
That lady acts as mistress of this house , and she is a highly connected lady . 
Now , I don't care a button what you do to me , because I don't affect to be anybody . 
So far from having high connections I have no connections at all , and I come of the scum of the earth . 
But towards that lady , I do care what you do and you shall do what is deferential and respectful , or you shall not come here . 
'I hope , Bounderby , said Mr. Gradgrind , in a conciliatory voice , 'that this was merely an oversight . 
'My friend Tom Gradgrind suggests , Mrs. Sparsit , said Bounderby , 'that this was merely an oversight . 
However , as you are aware , ma'am , I don't allow of even oversights towards you . 
'You are very good indeed , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit , shaking her head with her State humility . 
'It is not worth speaking of . 
Sissy , who all this time had been faintly excusing herself with tears in her eyes , was now waved over by the master of the house to Mr. Gradgrind . 
From this time you begin your history . 
You are , at present , ignorant , I know . 
'Yes , sir , very , she answered , curtseying . 
You will be reclaimed and formed . 
'Only to father and Merrylegs , sir . 
At least I mean to father , when Merrylegs was always there . 
'Never mind Merrylegs , Jupe , said Mr. Gradgrind , with a passing frown . 
'I don't ask about him . 
I understand you to have been in the habit of reading to your father ? 'O , yes , sir , thousands of times . 
They were the happiest O , of all the happy times we had together , sir ! It was only now when her sorrow broke out , that Louisa looked at her . 
Never breathe a word of such destructive nonsense any more . 
Bounderby , this is a case for rigid training , and I shall observe it with interest . 
'Well , returned Mr. Bounderby , 'I have given you my opinion already , and I shouldn't do as you do . 
But , very well , very well . 
And Mr. Bounderby went about his daily pursuits . 
And Mrs. Sparsit got behind her eyebrows and meditated in the gloom of that retreat , all the evening . 
CHAPTER VIII NEVER WONDER LET us strike the key note again , before pursuing the tune . 
By means of addition , subtraction , multiplication , and division , settle everything somehow , and never wonder . 
Bring to me , says M'Choakumchild , yonder baby just able to walk , and I will engage that it shall never wonder . 
, they were pretty well united on the point that these unlucky infants were never to wonder . 
Body number one , said they must take everything on trust . 
Body number two , said they must take everything on political economy . 
, made the shallowest pretences of concealing pitfalls of knowledge , into which it was the duty of these babies to be smuggled and inveigled . 
But , all the bodies agreed that they were never to wonder . 
There was a library in Coketown , to which general access was easy . 
It was a disheartening circumstance , but a melancholy fact , that even these readers persisted in wondering . 
They took De Foe to their bosoms , instead of Euclid , and seemed to be on the whole more comforted by Goldsmith than by Cocker . 
Mr. Gradgrind was for ever working , in print and out of print , at this eccentric sum , and he never could make out how it yielded this unaccountable product . 
'I am sick of my life , Loo . 
I , hate it altogether , and I hate everybody except you , said the unnatural young Thomas Gradgrind in the hair cutting chamber at twilight . 
'You don't hate Sissy , Tom ? 'I hate to be obliged to call her Jupe . 
And she hates me , said Tom , moodily . 
'No , she does not , Tom , I am sure ! 'She must , said Tom . 
'She must just hate and detest the whole set out of us . 
They'll bother her head off , I think , before they have done with her . 
Already she's getting as pale as wax , and as heavy as I am . 
Young Thomas expressed these sentiments sitting astride of a chair before the fire , with his arms on the back , and his sulky face on his arms . 
His sister sat in the darker corner by the fireside , now looking at him , now looking at the bright sparks as they dropped upon the hearth . 
'As to me , said Tom , tumbling his hair all manner of ways with his sulky hands , 'I am a Donkey , that's what I am . 
I am as obstinate as one , I am more stupid than one , I get as much pleasure as one , and I should like to kick like one . 
'Not me , I hope , Tom ? 'No , Loo I wouldn't hurt you . 
I made an exception of you at first . 
'Indeed , Tom ? Do you really and truly say so ? 'Why , of course I do . 
I don't know what other girls know . 
I can't play to you , or sing to you . 
'Well , no more do I. I am as bad as you in that respect and I am a Mule too , which you're not . 
If father was determined to make me either a Prig or a Mule , and I am not a Prig , why , it stands to reason , I must be a Mule . 
And so I am , said Tom , desperately . 
'It's a great pity , said Louisa , after another pause , and speaking thoughtfully out of her dark corner 'it's a great pity , Tom . 
It's very unfortunate for both of us . 
'Oh ! You , said Tom 'you are a girl , Loo , and a girl comes out of it better than a boy does . 
I don't miss anything in you . 
You are the only pleasure I have you can brighten even this place and you can always lead me as you like . 
'You are a dear brother , Tom and while you think I can do such things , I don't so much mind knowing better . 
Though I do know better , Tom , and am very sorry for it . 
She came and kissed him , and went back into her corner again . 
'Your revenge , Tom ? 'I mean , I'll enjoy myself a little , and go about and see something , and hear something . 
I'll recompense myself for the way in which I have been brought up . 
'But don't disappoint yourself beforehand , Tom . 
Mr. Bounderby thinks as father thinks , and is a great deal rougher , and not half so kind . 
'Oh ! said Tom , laughing 'I don't mind that . 
Or , a fanciful imagination if such treason could have been there might have made it out to be the shadow of their subject , and of its lowering association with their future . 
'What is your great mode of smoothing and managing , Tom ? Is it a secret ? 'Oh ! said Tom , 'if it is a secret , it's not far off . 
You are his little pet , you are his favourite he'll do anything for you . 
When he says to me what I don't like , I shall say to him , My sister Loo will be hurt and disappointed , Mr. Bounderby . 
She always used to tell me she was sure you would be easier with me than this . 
That'll bring him about , or nothing will . 
I am looking at the fire . 
'You seem to find more to look at in it than ever I could find , said Tom . 
'Another of the advantages , I suppose , of being a girl . 
'There is one thing to be said of it , Louisa repeated in her former curious tone 'it will be getting away from home . 
'Not but what I shall be very unwilling , both to leave you , Loo , and to leave you here . 
Don't you see ? 'Yes , Tom . 
'Except that it is a fire , said Tom , 'it looks to me as stupid and blank as everything else looks . 
What do you see in it ? Not a circus ? 'I don't see anything in it , Tom , particularly . 
But since I have been looking at it , I have been wondering about you and me , grown up . 
'Wondering again ! said Tom . 
'I have such unmanageable thoughts , returned his sister , 'that they will wonder . 
'I was encouraged by nothing , mother , but by looking at the red sparks dropping out of the fire , and whitening and dying . 
It made me think , after all , how short my life would be , and how little I could hope to do in it . 
'Nonsense ! said Mrs. Gradgrind , rendered almost energetic . 
So Jupe was kept to it , and became low spirited , but no wiser . 
'Do you think so ? 'I should know so much , Miss Louisa . 
All that is difficult to me now , would be so easy then . 
'You might not be the better for it , Sissy . 
Sissy submitted , after a little hesitation , 'I should not be the worse , Miss Louisa . 
To which Miss Louisa answered , 'I don't know that . 
Sissy , with her dark eyes wonderingly directed to Louisa's face , was uncertain whether to say more or to remain silent . 
'You are more useful to my mother , and more pleasant with her than I can ever be , Louisa resumed . 
'You are pleasanter to yourself , than I am to myself . 
'You don't know , said Sissy , half crying , 'what a stupid girl I am . 
All through school hours I make mistakes . 
Mr. and Mrs. M'Choakumchild call me up , over and over again , regularly to make mistakes . 
They seem to come natural to me . 
and Mrs. M'Choakumchild never make any mistakes themselves , I suppose , Sissy ? 'O no ! she eagerly returned . 
'Tell me some of your mistakes . 
'I am almost ashamed , said Sissy , with reluctance . 
'But to day , for instance , Mr. M'Choakumchild was explaining to us about Natural Prosperity . 
'National , I think it must have been , observed Louisa . 
But isn't it the same ? she timidly asked . 
'You had better say , National , as he said so , returned Louisa , with her dry reserve . 
And he said , Now , this schoolroom is a Nation . 
And in this nation , there are fifty millions of money . 
Isn't this a prosperous nation ? Girl number twenty , isn't this a prosperous nation , and a'n't you in a thriving state ? 'What did you say ? asked Louisa . 
'Miss Louisa , I said I didn't know . 
But that had nothing to do with it . 
It was not in the figures at all , said Sissy , wiping her eyes . 
'That was a great mistake of yours , observed Louisa . 
'Yes , Miss Louisa , I know it was , now . 
Then Mr. M'Choakumchild said he would try me again . 
And that was wrong , too . 
'Then Mr. M'Choakumchild said he would try me once more . 
And he said , Here are the stutterings 'Statistics , said Louisa . 
'Yes , Miss Louisa they always remind me of stutterings , and that's another of my mistakes of accidents upon the sea . 
that in a given time a hundred thousand persons went to sea on long voyages , and only five hundred of them were drowned or burnt to death . 
What is the percentage ? And I said , Miss here Sissy fairly sobbed as confessing with extreme contrition to her greatest error 'I said it was nothing . 
'Nothing , Sissy ? 'Nothing , Miss to the relations and friends of the people who were killed . 
I shall never learn , said Sissy . 
Louisa stood looking at the pretty modest head , as it drooped abashed before her , until it was raised again to glance at her face . 
'No , Miss Louisa , answered Sissy , upon this encouragement , shaking her head 'father knows very little indeed . 
It's as much as he can do to write and it's more than people in general can do to read his writing . 
Though it's plain to me . 
'Your mother ! 'Father says she was quite a scholar . 
She died when I was born . 
She was Sissy made the terrible communication nervously 'she was a dancer . 
'O yes ! As dearly as he loves me . 
Father loved me , first , for her sake . 
He carried me about with him when I was quite a baby . 
We have never been asunder from that time . 
'Yet he leaves you now , Sissy ? 'Only for my good . 
Nobody understands him as I do nobody knows him as I do . 
When he left me for my good he never would have left me for his own I know he was almost broken hearted with the trial . 
He will not be happy for a single minute , till he comes back . 
'Tell me more about him , said Louisa , 'I will never ask you again . 
Where did you live ? 'We travelled about the country , and had no fixed place to live in . 
Father's a Sissy whispered the awful word , 'a clown . 
'To make the people laugh ? said Louisa , with a nod of intelligence . 
But they wouldn't laugh sometimes , and then father cried . 
Lately , they very often wouldn't laugh , and he used to come home despairing . 
Those who didn't know him as well as I do , and didn't love him as dearly as I do , might believe he was not quite right . 
Sometimes they played tricks upon him but they never knew how he felt them , and shrunk up , when he was alone with me . 
He was far , far timider than they thought ! 'And you were his comfort through everything ? She nodded , with the tears rolling down her face . 
'I hope so , and father said I was . 
, that he wanted me so much to know a great deal , and be different from him . 
I used to read to him to cheer his courage , and he was very fond of that . 
They were wrong books I am never to speak of them here but we didn't know there was any harm in them . 
'And he liked them ? said Louisa , with a searching gaze on Sissy all this time . 
'O very much ! They kept him , many times , from what did him real harm . 
'And your father was always kind ? To the last ? asked Louisa contravening the great principle , and wondering very much . 
'Always , always ! returned Sissy , clasping her hands . 
'Kinder and kinder than I can tell . 
He was angry only one night , and that was not to me , but Merrylegs . 
Merrylegs she whispered the awful fact 'is his performing dog . 
'Why was he angry with the dog ? Louisa demanded . 
'Father , soon after they came home from performing , told Merrylegs to jump up on the backs of the two chairs and stand across them which is one of his tricks . 
He looked at father , and didn't do it at once . 
Everything of father's had gone wrong that night , and he hadn't pleased the public at all . 
He cried out that the very dog knew he was failing , and had no compassion on him . 
Louisa saw that she was sobbing and going to her , kissed her , took her hand , and sat down beside her . 
'Finish by telling me how your father left you , Sissy . 
Now that I have asked you so much , tell me the end . 
The blame , if there is any blame , is mine , not yours . 
And he sat rocking himself over the fire , as if he was in pain . 
, and he said , A little , my darling . 
And when I came to stoop down and look up at his face , I saw that he was crying . 
'I am asking Sissy a few questions , Tom , observed his sister . 
'You have no occasion to go away but don't interrupt us for a moment , Tom dear . 
'Oh ! very well ! returned Tom . 
'Only father has brought old Bounderby home , and I want you to come into the drawing room . 
Because if you come , there's a good chance of old Bounderby's asking me to dinner and if you don't , there's none . 
'I'll wait for you , said Tom , 'to make sure . 
Sissy resumed in a lower voice . 
When I had no more left to tell , he put his arms round my neck , and kissed me a great many times . 
Then the thought must have come upon him , poor , poor father ! of going away to try something for my sake for when I came back , he was gone . 
'I say ! Look sharp for old Bounderby , Loo ! Tom remonstrated . 
'There's no more to tell , Miss Louisa . 
I keep the nine oils ready for him , and I know he will come back . 
Every letter that I see in Mr. Gradgrind's hand takes my breath away and blinds my eyes , for I think it comes from father , or from Mr. Sleary about father . 
Mr. Sleary promised to write as soon as ever father should be heard of , and I trust to him to keep his word . 
'Do look sharp for old Bounderby , Loo ! said Tom , with an impatient whistle . 
as if fantastic hope could take as strong a hold as Fact . 
This observation must be limited exclusively to his daughter . 
As to Tom , he was becoming that not unprecedented triumph of calculation which is usually at work on number one . 
CHAPTER X STEPHEN BLACKPOOL I ENTERTAIN a weak idea that the English people are as hard worked as any people upon whom the sun shines . 
I acknowledge to this ridiculous idiosyncrasy , as a reason why I would give them a little more play . 
Stephen looked older , but he had had a hard life . 
He had known , to use his words , a peck of trouble . 
He was usually called Old Stephen , in a kind of rough homage to the fact . 
He held no station among the Hands who could make speeches and carry on debates . 
Thousands of his compeers could talk much better than he , at any time . 
He was a good power loom weaver , and a man of perfect integrity . 
What more he was , or what else he had in him , if anything , let him show for himself . 
'Yet I don't see Rachael , still ! said he . 
He knew Rachael well , for a glance at any one of these groups was sufficient to show him that she was not there . 
It was not a face in its first bloom she was a woman five and thirty years of age . 
'I thought thou wast ahind me , Rachael ? 'No . 
'Early t'night , lass ? ''Times I'm a little early , Stephen ! 'times a little late . 
I'm never to be counted on , going home . 
'Nor going t'other way , neither , 't seems to me , Rachael ? 'No , Stephen . 
He looked at her with some disappointment in his face , but with a respectful and patient conviction that she must be right in whatever she did . 
The expression was not lost upon her she laid her hand lightly on his arm a moment as if to thank him for it . 
'We are such true friends , lad , and such old friends , and getting to be such old folk , now . 
'No , Rachael , thou'rt as young as ever thou wast . 
'Tis better not to walk too much together . 
'Times , yes ! 'Twould be hard , indeed , if 'twas not to be at all , she said , with a cheerfulness she sought to communicate to him . 
''Tis hard , anyways , Rachael . 
'Try to think not and 'twill seem better . 
'I've tried a long time , and 'ta'nt got better . 
But thou'rt right 't might mak fok talk , even of thee . 
Ah , lass , and a bright good law ! Better than some real ones . 
'Never fret about them , Stephen , she answered quickly , and not without an anxious glance at his face . 
'Yes , he said , with a slow nod or two . 
'Tis a muddle , and that's aw . 
The touch had its instantaneous effect . 
He let them fall , turned a smiling face upon her , and said , as he broke into a good humoured laugh , 'Ay , Rachael , lass , awlus a muddle . 
I come to the muddle many times and agen , and I never get beyond it . 
They had walked some distance , and were near their own homes . 
The woman's was the first reached . 
kept a black ladder , in order that those who had done their daily groping up and down the narrow stairs might slide out of this working world by the windows . 
She stopped at the corner , and putting her hand in his , wished him good night . 
When she was lost to his view , he pursued his homeward way , glancing up sometimes at the sky , where the clouds were sailing fast and wildly . 
The man seemed to have brightened with the night , as he went on . 
His home , in such another street as the first , saving that it was narrower , was over a little shop . 
It was a room , not unacquainted with the black ladder under various tenants but as neat , at present , as such a room could be . 
A few books and writings were on an old bureau in a corner , the furniture was decent and sufficient , and , though the atmosphere was tainted , the room was clean . 
Going to the hearth to set the candle down upon a round three legged table standing there , he stumbled against something . 
As he recoiled , looking down at it , it raised itself up into the form of a woman in a sitting attitude . 
'Heaven's mercy , woman ! he cried , falling farther off from the figure . 
'Eigh , lad ? What , yo'r there ? Some hoarse sounds meant for this , came mockingly out of her at last and her head dropped forward on her breast . 
'Back agen ? she screeched , after some minutes , as if he had that moment said it . 
'Yes ! And back agen . 
Back agen ever and ever so often . 
Back ? Yes , back . 
'Come awa' from th' bed ! He was sitting on the side of it , with his face hidden in his hands . 
'Come awa ! from 't . 
She threw herself upon the bed heavily , and soon was snoring hard . 
He sunk into a chair , and moved but once all that night . 
It was to throw a covering over her as if his hands were not enough to hide her , even in the darkness . 
CHAPTER XI NO WAY OUT THE Fairy palaces burst into illumination , before pale morning showed the monstrous serpents of smoke trailing themselves over Coketown . 
Stephen bent over his loom , quiet , watchful , and steady . 
A special contrast , as every man was in the forest of looms where Stephen worked , to the crashing , smashing , tearing piece of mechanism at which he laboured . 
Never fear , good people of an anxious turn of mind , that Art will consign Nature to oblivion . 
So many hundred Hands in this Mill so many hundred horse Steam Power . 
There is no mystery in it there is an unfathomable mystery in the meanest of them , for ever . 
The lights were turned out , and the work went on . 
The rain fell , and the Smoke serpents , submissive to the curse of all that tribe , trailed themselves upon the earth . 
The work went on , until the noon bell rang . 
More clattering upon the pavements . 
The looms , and wheels , and Hands all out of gear for an hour . 
Stephen came out of the hot mill into the damp wind and cold wet streets , haggard and worn . 
upon a brazen plate , and a round brazen door handle underneath it , like a brazen full stop . 
Mr. Bounderby was at his lunch . 
Would his servant say that one of the Hands begged leave to speak to him ? Message in return , requiring name of such Hand . 
There was nothing troublesome against Stephen Blackpool yes , he might come in . 
Stephen Blackpool in the parlour . 
, at lunch on chop and sherry . 
Mrs. Sparsit netting at the fireside , in a side saddle attitude , with one foot in a cotton stirrup . 
It was a part , at once of Mrs. Sparsit's dignity and service , not to lunch . 
She supervised the meal officially , but implied that in her own stately person she considered lunch a weakness . 
'Now , Stephen , said Mr. Bounderby , 'what's the matter with you ? Stephen made a bow . 
'Now , you know , said Mr. Bounderby , taking some sherry , 'we have never had any difficulty with you , and you have never been one of the unreasonable ones . 
Now , you know , I am certain of that , beforehand . 
'No , sir , sure I ha' not coom for nowt o' th' kind . 
Mr. Bounderby seemed agreeably surprised , notwithstanding his previous strong conviction . 
'Very well , he returned . 
'You're a steady Hand , and I was not mistaken . 
Now , let me hear what it's all about . 
As it's not that , let me hear what it is . 
What have you got to say ? Out with it , lad ! Stephen happened to glance towards Mrs. Sparsit . 
'I can go , Mr. Bounderby , if you wish it , said that self sacrificing lady , making a feint of taking her foot out of the stirrup . 
Mr. Bounderby stayed her , by holding a mouthful of chop in suspension before swallowing it , and putting out his left hand . 
Then , withdrawing his hand and swallowing his mouthful of chop , he said to Stephen 'Now you know , this good lady is a born lady , a high lady . 
If what you have got to say can be said before a born lady , this lady will stay where she is . 
'Very well , said Mr. Bounderby , pushing away his plate , and leaning back . 
'Fire away ! 'I ha' coom , Stephen began , raising his eyes from the floor , after a moment's consideration , 'to ask yo yor advice . 
I were married on Eas'r Monday nineteen year sin , long and dree . 
She were a young lass pretty enow wi' good accounts of herseln . 
Well ! She went bad soon . 
Gonnows I were not a unkind husband to her . 
'I have heard all this before , said Mr. Bounderby . 
'She took to drinking , left off working , sold the furniture , pawned the clothes , and played old Gooseberry . 
'I were patient wi' her . 
'I were very patient wi' her . 
I tried to wean her fra 't ower and ower agen . 
I tried this , I tried that , I tried t'other . 
I ha' gone home , many's the time , and found all vanished as I had in the world , and her without a sense left to bless herseln lying on bare ground . 
'From bad to worse , from worse to worsen . 
She disgraced herseln everyways , bitter and bad . 
She coom back , she coom back , she coom back . 
What could I do t' hinder her ? I ha' walked the streets nights long , ere ever I'd go home . 
I ha' gone t' th' brigg , minded to fling myseln ower , and ha' no more on't . 
I ha' bore that much , that I were owd when I were young . 
Please to turn your humble eye in My direction . 
'I ha' paid her to keep awa' fra' me . 
These five year I ha' paid her . 
I ha' gotten decent fewtrils about me agen . 
I ha' lived hard and sad , but not ashamed and fearfo' a' the minnits o' my life . 
Last night , I went home . 
'I was acquainted with all this , you know , said Mr. Bounderby , 'except the last clause , long ago . 
It's a bad job that's what it is . 
You had better have been satisfied as you were , and not have got married . 
However , it's too late to say that . 
'Was it an unequal marriage , sir , in point of years ? asked Mrs. Sparsit . 
'You hear what this lady asks . 
Was it an unequal marriage in point of years , this unlucky job of yours ? said Mr. Bounderby . 
I were one and twenty myseln she were twenty nighbut . 
'Indeed , sir ? said Mrs. Sparsit to her Chief , with great placidity . 
'I inferred , from its being so miserable a marriage , that it was probably an unequal one in point of years . 
Mr. Bounderby looked very hard at the good lady in a side long way that had an odd sheepishness about it . 
He fortified himself with a little more sherry . 
'Well ? Why don't you go on ? he then asked , turning rather irritably on Stephen Blackpool . 
'I ha' coom to ask yo , sir , how I am to be ridded o' this woman . 
Stephen infused a yet deeper gravity into the mixed expression of his attentive face . 
Mrs. Sparsit uttered a gentle ejaculation , as having received a moral shock . 
'What do you mean ? said Bounderby , getting up to lean his back against the chimney piece . 
'What are you talking about ? You took her for better for worse . 
'I mun' be ridden o' her . 
I cannot bear 't nommore . 
I ha' lived under 't so long , for that I ha' had'n the pity and comforting words o' th' best lass living or dead . 
Haply , but for her , I should ha' gone battering mad . 
The lady says what's right . 
I were a coming to 't . 
are not bonded together for better for worst so fast , but that they can be set free fro' their misfortnet marriages , an' marry ower agen . 
We fok ha' only one room , and we can't . 
When that won't do , they ha' gowd an' other cash , an' they can say This for yo' an' that for me , an' they can go their separate ways . 
Spite o' all that , they can be set free for smaller wrongs than mine . 
So , I mun be ridden o' this woman , and I want t' know how ? 'No how , returned Mr. Bounderby . 
'If I do her any hurt , sir , there's a law to punish me ? 'Of course there is . 
'If I flee from her , there's a law to punish me ? 'Of course there is . 
'If I marry t'oother dear lass , there's a law to punish me ? 'Of course there is . 
'No no , dunnot say that , sir . 
'Tan't kep' up that way . 
'Tis kep' down that way . 
I'm a weaver , I were in a fact'ry when a chilt , but I ha' gotten een to see wi' and eern to year wi' . 
Let us ha' this , right understood . 
Mine's a grievous case , an' I want if yo will be so good t' know the law that helps me . 
'Now , I tell you what ! said Mr. Bounderby , putting his hands in his pockets . 
'There is such a law . 
Stephen , subsiding into his quiet manner , and never wandering in his attention , gave a nod . 
'But it's not for you at all . 
It costs a mint of money . 
'How much might that be ? Stephen calmly asked . 
, I suppose from a thousand to fifteen hundred pound , said Mr. Bounderby . 
'There's no other law ? 'Certainly not . 
'Why then , sir , said Stephen , turning white , and motioning with that right hand of his , as if he gave everything to the four winds , ''tis a muddle . 
'Tis just a muddle a'toogether , an' the sooner I am dead , the better . 
The institutions of your country are not your piece work , and the only thing you have got to do , is , to mind your piece work . 
You didn't take your wife for fast and for loose but for better for worse . 
If she has turned out worse why , all we have got to say is , she might have turned out better . 
''Tis a muddle , said Stephen , shaking his head as he moved to the door . 
''Tis a' a muddle ! 'Now , I'll tell you what ! Mr. Bounderby resumed , as a valedictory address . 
'Now , you have always been a steady Hand hitherto but my opinion is , and so I tell you plainly , that you are turning into the wrong road . 
You have been listening to some mischievous stranger or other they're always about and the best thing you can do is , to come out of that . 
I see traces of the turtle soup , and venison , and gold spoon in this . 
Yes , I do ! cried Mr. Bounderby , shaking his head with obstinate cunning . 
'By the Lord Harry , I do ! With a very different shake of the head and deep sigh , Stephen said , 'Thank you , sir , I wish you good day . 
He crossed the street with his eyes bent upon the ground , and thus was walking sorrowfully away , when he felt a touch upon his arm . 
It was an old woman , tall and shapely still , though withered by time , on whom his eyes fell when he stopped and turned . 
She was very cleanly and plainly dressed , had country mud upon her shoes , and was newly come from a journey . 
'Pray , sir , said the old woman , 'didn't I see you come out of that gentleman's house ? pointing back to Mr. Bounderby's . 
'I believe it was you , unless I have had the bad luck to mistake the person in following ? 'Yes , missus , returned Stephen , 'it were me . 
'Have you you'll excuse an old woman's curiosity have you seen the gentleman ? 'Yes , missus . 
'O yes , he returned , observing her more attentively , 'he were all that . 
'And healthy , said the old woman , 'as the fresh wind ? 'Yes , returned Stephen . 
'He were ett'n and drinking as large and as loud as a Hummobee . 
'Thank you ! said the old woman , with infinite content . 
'Thank you ! He certainly never had seen this old woman before . 
Yet there was a vague remembrance in his mind , as if he had more than once dreamed of some old woman like her . 
'By Parliamentary , this morning . 
I came forty mile by Parliamentary this morning , and I'm going back the same forty mile this afternoon . 
I walked nine mile to the station this morning , and if I find nobody on the road to give me a lift , I shall walk the nine mile back to night . 
That's pretty well , sir , at my age ! said the chatty old woman , her eye brightening with exultation . 
Don't do't too often , missus . 
Once a year , she answered , shaking her head . 
'I spend my savings so , once every year . 
I come regular , to tramp about the streets , and see the gentlemen . 
'Only to see 'em ? returned Stephen . 
'That's enough for me , she replied , with great earnestness and interest of manner . 
But , he's late this year , and I have not seen him . 
Saying this , she looked at Stephen as if to fix his features in her mind , and her eye was not so bright as it had been . 
But they were passing the church now , and as his eye caught the clock , he quickened his pace . 
He was going to his work ? the old woman said , quickening hers , too , quite easily . 
Yes , time was nearly out . 
On his telling her where he worked , the old woman became a more singular old woman than before . 
'An't you happy ? she asked him . 
'Why there's awmost nobbody but has their troubles , missus . 
He answered evasively , because the old woman appeared to take it for granted that he would be very happy indeed , and he had not the heart to disappoint her . 
'Ay , ay ! You have your troubles at home , you mean ? she said . 
Just now and then , he answered , slightly . 
'But , working under such a gentleman , they don't follow you to the Factory ? No , no they didn't follow him there , said Stephen . 
They were now in the black by road near the place , and the Hands were crowding in . 
The bell was ringing , and the Serpent was a Serpent of many coils , and the Elephant was getting ready . 
The strange old woman was delighted with the very bell . 
Long before then his thoughts had gone back to the dreary room above the little shop , and to the shameful figure heavy on the bed , but heavier on his heart . 
Machinery slackened throbbing feebly like a fainting pulse stopped . 
The bell again the glare of light and heat dispelled the factories , looming heavy in the black wet night their tall chimneys rising up into the air like competing Towers of Babel . 
He waited , but she had eluded him . 
On no other night in the year could he so ill have spared her patient face . 
O ! Better to have no home in which to lay his head , than to have a home and dread to go to it , through such a cause . 
He ate and drank , for he was exhausted but he little knew or cared what and he wandered about in the chill rain , thinking and thinking , and brooding and brooding . 
He thought of Rachael , how young when they were first brought together in these circumstances , how mature now , how soon to grow old . 
The inequality of Birth was nothing to it . 
He went up to his door , opened it , and so into the room . 
Quiet and peace were there . 
Rachael was there , sitting by the bed . 
She turned her head , and the light of her face shone in upon the midnight of his mind . 
She sat by the bed , watching and tending his wife . 
Her disgraceful garments were removed , and some of Rachael's were in the room . 
Everything was in its place and order as he had always kept it , the little fire was newly trimmed , and the hearth was freshly swept . 
It appeared to him that he saw all this in Rachael's face , and looked at nothing besides . 
She turned again towards the bed , and satisfying herself that all was quiet there , spoke in a low , calm , cheerful voice . 
'I am glad you have come at last , Stephen . 
'I ha' been walking up an' down . 
But 'tis too bad a night for that . 
The rain falls very heavy , and the wind has risen . 
Landlady came round for me at dinner time . 
There was some one here that needed looking to , she said . 
And 'deed she was right . 
All wandering and lost , Stephen . 
Wounded too , and bruised . 
He slowly moved to a chair and sat down , drooping his head before her . 
Thou knowest who said , Let him who is without sin among you cast the first stone at her ! There have been plenty to do that . 
Thou art not the man to cast the last stone , Stephen , when she is brought so low . 
'O Rachael , Rachael ! 'Thou hast been a cruel sufferer , Heaven reward thee ! she said , in compassionate accents . 
'I am thy poor friend , with all my heart and mind . 
The wounds of which she had spoken , seemed to be about the neck of the self made outcast . 
She dressed them now , still without showing her . 
She steeped a piece of linen in a basin , into which she poured some liquid from a bottle , and laid it with a gentle hand upon the sore . 
The three legged table had been drawn close to the bedside , and on it there were two bottles . 
It was not so far off , but that Stephen , following her hands with his eyes , could read what was printed on it in large letters . 
He turned of a deadly hue , and a sudden horror seemed to fall upon him . 
'I will stay here , Stephen , said Rachael , quietly resuming her seat , 'till the bells go Three . 
'Tis to be done again at three , and then she may be left till morning . 
'But thy rest agen to morrow's work , my dear . 
'I slept sound last night . 
I can wake many nights , when I am put to it . 
'Tis thou who art in need of rest so white and tired . 
Try to sleep in the chair there , while I watch . 
Thou hadst no sleep last night , I can well believe . 
To morrow's work is far harder for thee than for me . 
He heard the thundering and surging out of doors , and it seemed to him as if his late angry mood were going about trying to get at him . 
She had cast it out she would keep it out he trusted to her to defend him from himself . 
'She don't know me , Stephen she just drowsily mutters and stares . 
I have spoken to her times and again , but she don't notice ! 'Tis as well so . 
When she comes to her right mind once more , I shall have done what I can , and she never the wiser . 
'How long , Rachael , is 't looked for , that she'll be so ? 'Doctor said she would haply come to her mind to morrow . 
His eyes fell again on the bottle , and a tremble passed over him , causing him to shiver in every limb . 
She thought he was chilled with the wet . 
'No , he said , 'it was not that . 
He had had a fright . 
'A fright ? 'Ay , ay ! coming in . 
'Stephen ! She was coming to him , but he stretched out his arm to stop her . 
'No ! Don't , please don't . 
Let me see thee setten by the bed . 
Let me see thee , a' so good , and so forgiving . 
Let me see thee as I see thee when I coom in . 
I can never see thee better than so . 
Never , never , never ! He had a violent fit of trembling , and then sunk into his chair . 
After a time he controlled himself , and , resting with an elbow on one knee , and his head upon that hand , could look towards Rachael . 
Seen across the dim candle with his moistened eyes , she looked as if she had a glory shining round her head . 
He could have believed she had . 
He did believe it , as the noise without shook the window , rattled at the door below , and went about the house clamouring and lamenting . 
'When she gets better , Stephen , 'tis to be hoped she'll leave thee to thyself again , and do thee no more hurt . 
Anyways we will hope so now . 
And now I shall keep silence , for I want thee to sleep . 
saying what had been really said . 
Even this imperfect consciousness faded away at last , and he dreamed a long , troubled dream . 
It broke from one line in the table of commandments at the altar , and illuminated the building with the words . 
They were sounded through the church , too , as if there were voices in the fiery letters . 
Upon this , the whole appearance before him and around him changed , and nothing was left as it had been , but himself and the clergyman . 
In an instant what he stood on fell below him , and he was gone . 
, he was the subject of a nameless , horrible dread , a mortal fear of one particular shape which everything took . 
Whatsoever he looked at , grew into that form sooner or later . 
The object of his miserable existence was to prevent its recognition by any one among the various people he encountered . 
The wind was blowing again , the rain was beating on the house tops , and the larger spaces through which he had strayed contracted to the four walls of his room . 
Saving that the fire had died out , it was as his eyes had closed upon it . 
Rachael seemed to have fallen into a doze , in the chair by the bed . 
She sat wrapped in her shawl , perfectly still . 
The table stood in the same place , close by the bedside , and on it , in its real proportions and appearance , was the shape so often repeated . 
He thought he saw the curtain move . 
He looked again , and he was sure it moved . 
He saw a hand come forth and grope about a little . 
Then the curtain moved more perceptibly , and the woman in the bed put it back , and sat up . 
With her woful eyes , so haggard and wild , so heavy and large , she looked all round the room , and passed the corner where he slept in his chair . 
Her eyes returned to that corner , and she put her hand over them as a shade , while she looked into it . 
Again they went all round the room , scarcely heeding Rachael if at all , and returned to that corner . 
But that he had seen her come to this by inches , he never could have believed her to be the same . 
All this time , as if a spell were on him , he was motionless and powerless , except to watch her . 
Stupidly dozing , or communing with her incapable self about nothing , she sat for a little while with her hands at her ears , and her head resting on them . 
Presently , she resumed her staring round the room . 
And now , for the first time , her eyes stopped at the table with the bottles on it . 
Straightway she turned her eyes back to his corner , with the defiance of last night , and moving very cautiously and softly , stretched out her greedy hand . 
She drew a mug into the bed , and sat for a while considering which of the two bottles she should choose . 
Finally , she laid her insensate grasp upon the bottle that had swift and certain death in it , and , before his eyes , pulled out the cork with her teeth . 
Dream or reality , he had no voice , nor had he power to stir . 
If this be real , and her allotted time be not yet come , wake , Rachael , wake ! She thought of that , too . 
She looked at Rachael , and very slowly , very cautiously , poured out the contents . 
The draught was at her lips . 
A moment and she would be past all help , let the whole world wake and come about her with its utmost power . 
But in that moment Rachael started up with a suppressed cry . 
The creature struggled , struck her , seized her by the hair but Rachael had the cup . 
Stephen broke out of his chair . 
'Rachael , am I wakin' or dreamin' this dreadfo' night ? ''Tis all well , Stephen . 
I have been asleep , myself . 
Hush ! I hear the bells . 
The wind brought the sounds of the church clock to the window . 
They listened , and it struck three . 
She held the cup in her hand even now . 
'I thought it must be near three , she said , calmly pouring from the cup into the basin , and steeping the linen as before . 
'I am thankful I stayed ! 'Tis done now , when I have put this on . 
There ! And now she's quiet again . 
The few drops in the basin I'll pour away , for 'tis bad stuff to leave about , though ever so little of it . 
As she spoke , she drained the basin into the ashes of the fire , and broke the bottle on the hearth . 
She had nothing to do , then , but to cover herself with her shawl before going out into the wind and rain . 
'Thou'lt let me walk wi' thee at this hour , Rachael ? 'No , Stephen . 
'Tis but a minute , and I'm home . 
Bless thee , bless thee ! 'I am , as I have told thee , Stephen , thy poor friend . 
Angels are not like me . 
Between them , and a working woman fu' of faults , there is a deep gulf set . 
My little sister is among them , but she is changed . 
She raised her eyes for a moment as she said the words and then they fell again , in all their gentleness and mildness , on his face . 
'Thou changest me from bad to good . 
Thou mak'st me humbly wishfo' to be more like thee , and fearfo' to lose thee when this life is ower , and a' the muddle cleared awa' . 
I coom home wi'out a hope , and mad wi' thinking that when I said a word o' complaint I was reckoned a unreasonable Hand . 
I told thee I had had a fright . 
It were the Poison bottle on table . 
I ha' seen thee , aw this night . 
In my troublous sleep I ha' known thee still to be there . 
Evermore I will see thee there . 
I nevermore will see her or think o' her , but thou shalt be beside her . 
I nevermore will see or think o' anything that angers me , but thou , so much better than me , shalt be by th' side on't . 
He kissed the border of her shawl again , and let her go . 
She bade him good night in a broken voice , and went out into the street . 
The wind blew from the quarter where the day would soon appear , and still blew strongly . 
It had cleared the sky before it , and the rain had spent itself or travelled elsewhere , and the stars were bright . 
He stood bare headed in the road , watching her quick disappearance . 
As the shining stars were to the heavy candle in the window , so was Rachael , in the rugged fancy of this man , to the common experiences of his life . 
'Louisa is becoming , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'almost a young woman . 
'Thomas is becoming , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'almost a young man . 
Time passed Thomas on in the mill , while his father was thinking about it , and there he stood in a long tailed coat and a stiff shirt collar . 
'Really , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'the period has arrived when Thomas ought to go to Bounderby . 
'I fear , Jupe , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'that your continuance at the school any longer would be useless . 
'I am afraid it would , sir , Sissy answered with a curtsey . 
'I cannot disguise from you , Jupe , said Mr. Gradgrind , knitting his brow , 'that the result of your probation there has disappointed me has greatly disappointed me . 
You have not acquired , under Mr. and Mrs. M'Choakumchild , anything like that amount of exact knowledge which I looked for . 
You are extremely deficient in your facts . 
Your acquaintance with figures is very limited . 
You are altogether backward , and below the mark . 
'I am sorry , sir , she returned 'but I know it is quite true . 
Yet I have tried hard , sir . 
'Yes , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'yes , I believe you have tried hard I have observed you , and I can find no fault in that respect . 
The course you pursued , you pursued according to the system the system and there is no more to be said about it . 
I can only suppose that the circumstances of your early life were too unfavourable to the development of your reasoning powers , and that we began too late . 
Still , as I have said already , I am disappointed . 
'I wish I could have made a better acknowledgment , sir , of your kindness to a poor forlorn girl who had no claim upon you , and of your protection of her . 
'Don't shed tears , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
I don't complain of you . 
You are an affectionate , earnest , good young woman and and we must make that do . 
'Thank you , sir , very much , said Sissy , with a grateful curtsey . 
you are serviceable in the family also so I understand from Miss Louisa , and , indeed , so I have observed myself . 
I therefore hope , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'that you can make yourself happy in those relations . 
'I should have nothing to wish , sir , if 'I understand you , said Mr. Gradgrind 'you still refer to your father . 
I have heard from Miss Louisa that you still preserve that bottle . 
Well ! If your training in the science of arriving at exact results had been more successful , you would have been wiser on these points . 
I will say no more . 
He really liked Sissy too well to have a contempt for her otherwise he held her calculating powers in such very slight estimation that he must have fallen upon that conclusion . 
Somehow or other , he had become possessed by an idea that there was something in this girl which could hardly be set forth in a tabular form . 
In some stages of his manufacture of the human fabric , the processes of Time are very rapid . 
Except one , which was apart from his necessary progress through the mill . 
'Quite a young woman , said Mr. Gradgrind , musing . 
'Dear me ! Soon after this discovery , he became more thoughtful than usual for several days , and seemed much engrossed by one subject . 
'My dear , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'I must speak with you alone and seriously . 
Come to me in my room after breakfast to morrow , will you ? 'Yes , father . 
'Your hands are rather cold , Louisa . 
Are you not well ? 'Quite well , father . 
'And cheerful ? She looked at him again , and smiled in her peculiar manner . 
'I am as cheerful , father , as I usually am , or usually have been . 
'That's well , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'Are you there , Loo ? said her brother , looking in at the door . 
He was quite a young gentleman of pleasure now , and not quite a prepossessing one . 
But I touch him up with you when he comes it too strong , and so we preserve an understanding . 
I say ! Has father said anything particular to you to day or yesterday , Loo ? 'No , Tom . 
But he told me to night that he wished to do so in the morning . 
'Ah ! That's what I mean , said Tom . 
'Do you know where he is to night ? with a very deep expression . 
They are having a regular confab together up at the Bank . 
Why at the Bank , do you think ? Well , I'll tell you again . 
To keep Mrs. Sparsit's ears as far off as possible , I expect . 
With her hand upon her brother's shoulder , Louisa still stood looking at the fire . 
Her brother glanced at her face with greater interest than usual , and , encircling her waist with his arm , drew her coaxingly to him . 
'You are very fond of me , an't you , Loo ? 'Indeed I am , Tom , though you do let such long intervals go by without coming to see me . 
'Well , sister of mine , said Tom , 'when you say that , you are near my thoughts . 
It would be a splendid thing for me . 
It would be uncommonly jolly ! Her thoughtfulness baffled his cunning scrutiny . 
He could make nothing of her face . 
He pressed her in his arm , and kissed her cheek . 
She returned the kiss , but still looked at the fire . 
'I say , Loo ! I thought I'd come , and just hint to you what was going on though I supposed you'd most likely guess , even if you didn't know . 
I can't stay , because I'm engaged to some fellows to night . 
You won't forget how fond you are of me ? 'No , dear Tom , I won't forget . 
'That's a capital girl , said Tom . 
She gave him an affectionate good night , and went out with him to the door , whence the fires of Coketown could be seen , making the distance lurid . 
She stood there , looking steadfastly towards them , and listening to his departing steps . 
They retreated quickly , as glad to get away from Stone Lodge and she stood there yet , when he was gone and all was quiet . 
But his factory is a secret place , his work is noiseless , and his Hands are mutes . 
CHAPTER XV FATHER AND DAUGHTER ALTHOUGH Mr. Gradgrind did not take after Blue Beard , his room was quite a blue chamber in its abundance of blue books . 
, they proved there , in an army constantly strengthening by the arrival of new recruits . 
In that charmed apartment , the most complicated social questions were cast up , got into exact totals , and finally settled if those concerned could only have been brought to know it . 
A window looked towards Coketown and when she sat down near her father's table , she saw the high chimneys and the long tracts of smoke looming in the heavy distance gloomily . 
'My dear Louisa , said her father , 'I prepared you last night to give me your serious attention in the conversation we are now going to have together . 
You are not impulsive , you are not romantic , you are accustomed to view everything from the strong dispassionate ground of reason and calculation . 
From that ground alone , I know you will view and consider what I am going to communicate . 
He waited , as if he would have been glad that she said something . 
But she said never a word . 
'Louisa , my dear , you are the subject of a proposal of marriage that has been made to me . 
Again he waited , and again she answered not one word . 
This so far surprised him , as to induce him gently to repeat , 'a proposal of marriage , my dear . 
To which she returned , without any visible emotion whatever 'I hear you , father . 
I am attending , I assure you . 
'Well ! said Mr. Gradgrind , breaking into a smile , after being for the moment at a loss , 'you are even more dispassionate than I expected , Louisa . 
Or , perhaps , you are not unprepared for the announcement I have it in charge to make ? 'I cannot say that , father , until I hear it . 
Prepared or unprepared , I wish to hear it all from you . 
I wish to hear you state it to me , father . 
Strange to relate , Mr. Gradgrind was not so collected at this moment as his daughter was . 
'What you say , my dear Louisa , is perfectly reasonable . 
That time , to which he has so long , and certainly with great constancy , looked forward , is now come . 
The deadly statistical clock very hollow . 
The distant smoke very black and heavy . 
'Father , said Louisa , 'do you think I love Mr. Bounderby ? Mr. Gradgrind was extremely discomfited by this unexpected question . 
'Well , my child , he returned , 'I really cannot take upon myself to say . 
'Father , pursued Louisa in exactly the same voice as before , 'do you ask me to love Mr. Bounderby ? 'My dear Louisa , no . 
Because here was something to demonstrate , and it set him up again 'because the reply depends so materially , Louisa , on the sense in which we use the expression . 
Therefore , perhaps the expression itself I merely suggest this to you , my dear may be a little misplaced . 
to consider this question , as you have been accustomed to consider every other question , simply as one of tangible Fact . 
There is some disparity in your respective years , but in your means and positions there is none on the contrary , there is a great suitability . 
The disparity I have mentioned , therefore , almost ceases to be disparity , and all but disappears . 
Confining yourself rigidly to Fact , the question of Fact you state to yourself is Does Mr. Bounderby ask me to marry him ? Yes , he does . 
The sole remaining question then is Shall I marry him ? I think nothing can be plainer than that ? 'Shall I marry him ? repeated Louisa , with great deliberation . 
'No , father , she returned , 'I do not . 
'I now leave you to judge for yourself , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'I have stated the case , as such cases are usually stated among practical minds I have stated it , as the case of your mother and myself was stated in its time . 
The rest , my dear Louisa , is for you to decide . 
From the beginning , she had sat looking at him fixedly . 
The barriers were too many and too high for such a leap . 
Yet when the night comes , Fire bursts out , father ! she answered , turning quickly . 
'Of course I know that , Louisa . 
I do not see the application of the remark . 
To do him justice he did not , at all . 
She passed it away with a slight motion of her hand , and concentrating her attention upon him again , said , 'Father , I have often thought that life is very short . 
This was so distinctly one of his subjects that he interposed . 
'It is short , no doubt , my dear . 
Still , the average duration of human life is proved to have increased of late years . 
The calculations of various life assurance and annuity offices , among other figures which cannot go wrong , have established the fact . 
'I speak of my own life , father . 
'O indeed ? Still , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'I need not point out to you , Louisa , that it is governed by the laws which govern lives in the aggregate . 
'While it lasts , I would wish to do the little I can , and the little I am fit for . 
What does it matter ? Mr. Gradgrind seemed rather at a loss to understand the last four words replying , 'How , matter ? What matter , my dear ? 'Mr . 
Bounderby , she went on in a steady , straight way , without regarding this , 'asks me to marry him . 
The question I have to ask myself is , shall I marry him ? That is so , father , is it not ? You have told me so , father . 
Have you not ? 'Certainly , my dear . 
Since Mr. Bounderby likes to take me thus , I am satisfied to accept his proposal . 
Tell him , father , as soon as you please , that this was my answer . 
Repeat it , word for word , if you can , because I should wish him to know what I said . 
'It is quite right , my dear , retorted her father approvingly , 'to be exact . 
I will observe your very proper request . 
Have you any wish in reference to the period of your marriage , my child ? 'None , father . 
What does it matter ! Mr. Gradgrind had drawn his chair a little nearer to her , and taken her hand . 
But , her repetition of these words seemed to strike with some little discord on his ear . 
But perhaps I ought to do so . 
I merely wished to discharge my duty . 
'My dear , assented her eminently practical parent , 'quite true , quite true . 
You have been so careful of me , that I never had a child's heart . 
You have trained me so well , that I never dreamed a child's dream . 
You have dealt so wisely with me , father , from my cradle to this hour , that I never had a child's belief or a child's fear . 
Mr. Gradgrind was quite moved by his success , and by this testimony to it . 
'My dear Louisa , said he , 'you abundantly repay my care . 
Kiss me , my dear girl . 
So , his daughter kissed him . 
Detaining her in his embrace , he said , 'I may assure you now , my favourite child , that I am made happy by the sound decision at which you have arrived . 
Mr. Bounderby is a very remarkable man and what little disparity can be said to exist between you if any is more than counterbalanced by the tone your mind has acquired . 
It has always been my object so to educate you , as that you might , while still in your early youth , be almost any age . 
Kiss me once more , Louisa . 
Now , let us go and find your mother . 
Accordingly , they went down to the drawing room , where the esteemed lady with no nonsense about her , was recumbent as usual , while Sissy worked beside her . 
She gave some feeble signs of returning animation when they entered , and presently the faint transparency was presented in a sitting attitude . 
Gradgrind , said her husband , who had waited for the achievement of this feat with some impatience , 'allow me to present to you Mrs. Bounderby . 
It's impossible , said Mrs. Gradgrind , with a mingled sense of politeness and injury , 'to be constantly addressing him and never giving him a name . 
I cannot call him Josiah , for the name is insupportable to me . 
You yourself wouldn't hear of Joe , you very well know . 
Otherwise , I know it is one of those subjects I shall never hear the last of . 
Louisa had known it , and seen it , without looking at her . 
From that moment she was impassive , proud and cold held Sissy at a distance changed to her altogether . 
CHAPTER XVI HUSBAND AND WIFE MR . 
BOUNDERBY'S first disquietude on hearing of his happiness , was occasioned by the necessity of imparting it to Mrs. Sparsit . 
He could not make up his mind how to do that , or what the consequences of the step might be . 
'Good evening , Mr. Bounderby ! 'Good evening , ma'am , good evening . 
He drew up his chair , and Mrs. Sparsit drew back hers , as who should say , 'Your fireside , sir . 
It is for you to occupy it all , if you think proper . 
'Don't go to the North Pole , ma'am ! said Mr. Bounderby . 
'Thank you , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit , and returned , though short of her former position . 
She was so steadfastly occupied , that many minutes elapsed before she looked up from her work when she did so Mr. Bounderby bespoke her attention with a hitch of his head . 
'Sir , returned the lady , 'this is indeed not the first time that you have honoured me with similar expressions of your good opinion . 
Sparsit , ma'am , said Mr. Bounderby , 'I am going to astonish you . 
'Yes , sir ? returned Mrs. Sparsit , interrogatively , and in the most tranquil manner possible . 
She generally wore mittens , and she now laid down her work , and smoothed those mittens . 
'I am going , ma'am , said Bounderby , 'to marry Tom Gradgrind's daughter . 
'Yes , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit . 
'I hope you may be happy , Mr. Bounderby . 
'Well , ma'am , returned Bounderby , with some resentment in his tone which was clearly lowered , though in spite of himself , 'I am obliged to you . 
I hope I shall be . 
'Do you , sir ! said Mrs. Sparsit , with great affability . 
'But naturally you do of course you do . 
A very awkward pause on Mr. Bounderby's part , succeeded . 
Mrs. Sparsit sedately resumed her work and occasionally gave a small cough , which sounded like the cough of conscious strength and forbearance . 
You were so good as to promise that you would always substitute the phrase , annual compliment . 
'Well , ma'am , annual compliment . 
If the same annual compliment would be acceptable there , why , I see nothing to part us , unless you do . 
'Sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit . 
'If it was not , ma'am , you don't suppose that I should offer it to a lady who has moved in the society you have moved in . 
Not that I care for such society , you know ! But you do . 
Bounderby , you are very considerate . 
'Sir , rejoined Mrs. Sparsit , 'say no more . 
Therefore , sir , I accept your offer gratefully , and with many sincere acknowledgments for past favours . 
It was in vain for Bounderby to bluster or to assert himself in any of his explosive ways Mrs. Sparsit was resolved to have compassion on him , as a Victim . 
She had that tenderness for his melancholy fate , that his great red countenance used to break out into cold perspirations when she looked at him . 
Meanwhile the marriage was appointed to be solemnized in eight weeks' time , and Mr. Bounderby went every evening to Stone Lodge as an accepted wooer . 
Love was made on these occasions in the form of bracelets and , on all occasions during the period of betrothal , took a manufacturing aspect . 
Dresses were made , jewellery was made , cakes and gloves were made , settlements were made , and an extensive assortment of Facts did appropriate honour to the contract . 
The business was all Fact , from first to last . 
The deadly statistical recorder in the Gradgrind observatory knocked every second on the head as it was born , and buried it with his accustomed regularity . 
And when they were united in holy matrimony , they went home to breakfast at Stone Lodge aforesaid . 
After breakfast , the bridegroom addressed them in the following terms 'Ladies and gentlemen , I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown . 
If you want a speech this morning , my friend and father in law , Tom Gradgrind , is a Member of Parliament , and you know where to get it . 
I am not your man . 
So , I hope you like my feeling independent if you don't , I can't help it . 
Now I have mentioned , and you have mentioned , that I am this day married to Tom Gradgrind's daughter . 
I am very glad to be so . 
It has long been my wish to be so . 
I have watched her bringing up , and I believe she is worthy of me . 
At the same time not to deceive you I believe I am worthy of her . 
And I hope every spinster may find as good a husband as my wife has found . 
The bride , in passing down stairs , dressed for her journey , found Tom waiting for her flushed , either with his feelings , or the vinous part of the breakfast . 
'What a game girl you are , to be such a first rate sister , Loo ! whispered Tom . 
She clung to him as she should have clung to some far better nature that day , and was a little shaken in her reserved composure for the first time . 
'Old Bounderby's quite ready , said Tom . 
Good bye ! I shall be on the look out for you , when you come back . 
I say , my dear Loo ! AN'T it uncommonly jolly now ! END OF THE FIRST BOOK BOOK THE SECOND REAPING CHAPTER I EFFECTS IN THE BANK A SUNNY midsummer day . 
There was such a thing sometimes , even in Coketown . 
Seen from a distance in such weather , Coketown lay shrouded in a haze of its own , which appeared impervious to the sun's rays . 
You only knew the town was there , because you knew there could have been no such sulky blotch upon the prospect without a town . 
The wonder was , it was there at all . 
It had been ruined so often , that it was amazing how it had borne so many shocks . 
Surely there never was such fragile china ware as that of which the millers of Coketown were made . 
Handle them never so lightly , and they fell to pieces with such ease that you might suspect them of having been flawed before . 
Besides Mr. Bounderby's gold spoon which was generally received in Coketown , another prevalent fiction was very popular there . 
It took the form of a threat . 
This had terrified the Home Secretary within an inch of his life , on several occasions . 
So there it was , in the haze yonder and it increased and multiplied . 
Stokers emerged from low underground doorways into factory yards , and sat on steps , and posts , and palings , wiping their swarthy visages , and contemplating coals . 
The whole town seemed to be frying in oil . 
There was a stifling smell of hot oil everywhere . 
The steam engines shone with it , the dresses of the Hands were soiled with it , the mills throughout their many stories oozed and trickled it . 
The atmosphere of those Fairy palaces was like the breath of the simoom and their inhabitants , wasting with heat , toiled languidly in the desert . 
But no temperature made the melancholy mad elephants more mad or more sane . 
Their wearisome heads went up and down at the same rate , in hot weather and cold , wet weather and dry , fair weather and foul . 
Drowsily they whirred all through this sunny day , making the passenger more sleepy and more hot as he passed the humming walls of the mills . 
Sun blinds , and sprinklings of water , a little cooled the main streets and the shops but the mills , and the courts and alleys , baked at a fierce heat . 
So does the eye of Heaven itself become an evil eye , when incapable or sordid hands are interposed between it and the things it looks upon to bless . 
Mrs. Sparsit sat in her afternoon apartment at the Bank , on the shadier side of the frying street . 
Office hours were over and at that period of the day , in warm weather , she usually embellished with her genteel presence , a managerial board room over the public office . 
He had been married now a year and Mrs. Sparsit had never released him from her determined pity a moment . 
The Bank offered no violence to the wholesome monotony of the town . 
Mrs. Sparsit was conscious that by coming in the evening tide among the desks and writing implements , she shed a feminine , not to say also aristocratic , grace upon the office . 
With this impression of her interesting character upon her , Mrs. Sparsit considered herself , in some sort , the Bank Fairy . 
The townspeople who , in their passing and repassing , saw her there , regarded her as the Bank Dragon keeping watch over the treasures of the mine . 
What those treasures were , Mrs. Sparsit knew as little as they did . 
, were the chief items in her ideal catalogue thereof . 
A deaf serving woman and the light porter completed Mrs. Sparsit's empire . 
The light porter placed the tea tray on it , knuckling his forehead as a form of homage . 
'Thank you , Bitzer , said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'Thank you , ma'am , returned the light porter . 
He was a very light porter indeed as light as in the days when he blinkingly defined a horse , for girl number twenty . 
'All is shut up , Bitzer ? said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'All is shut up , ma'am . 
Our people are a bad lot , ma'am but that is no news , unfortunately . 
'What are the restless wretches doing now ? asked Mrs. Sparsit . 
'Merely going on in the old way , ma'am . 
Uniting , and leaguing , and engaging to stand by one another . 
'Yes , ma'am , said Bitzer . 
'Being united themselves , they ought one and all to set their faces against employing any man who is united with any other man , said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'They have done that , ma'am , returned Bitzer 'but it rather fell through , ma'am . 
I only know that these people must be conquered , and that it's high time it was done , once for all . 
'Yes , ma'am , returned Bitzer , with a demonstration of great respect for Mrs. Sparsit's oracular authority . 
'You couldn't put it clearer , I am sure , ma'am . 
'Has it been a busy day , Bitzer ? asked Mrs. Sparsit . 
'Not a very busy day , my lady . 
He now and then slided into my lady , instead of ma'am , as an involuntary acknowledgment of Mrs. Sparsit's personal dignity and claims to reverence . 
He held the respectable office of general spy and informer in the establishment , for which volunteer service he received a present at Christmas , over and above his weekly wage . 
He had grown into an extremely clear headed , cautious , prudent young man , who was safe to rise in the world . 
His mind was so exactly regulated , that he had no affections or passions . 
With the usual exception , ma'am , repeated Bitzer . 
'Ah h ! said Mrs. Sparsit , shaking her head over her tea cup , and taking a long gulp . 
Thomas , ma'am , I doubt Mr. Thomas very much , ma'am , I don't like his ways at all . 
'Bitzer , said Mrs. Sparsit , in a very impressive manner , 'do you recollect my having said anything to you respecting names ? 'I beg your pardon , ma'am . 
It's quite true that you did object to names being used , and they're always best avoided . 
'Please to remember that I have a charge here , said Mrs. Sparsit , with her air of state . 
'I hold a trust here , Bitzer , under Mr. Bounderby . 
From Mr. Bounderby I have received every acknowledgment of my social station , and every recognition of my family descent , that I could possibly expect . 
Therefore , to my patron I will be scrupulously true . 
Bitzer knuckled his forehead again , and again begged pardon . 
'No , Bitzer , continued Mrs. Sparsit , 'say an individual , and I will hear you say Mr. Thomas , and you must excuse me . 
'With the usual exception , ma'am , said Bitzer , trying back , 'of an individual . 
'An individual , ma'am , said Bitzer , 'has never been what he ought to have been , since he first came into the place . 
He is a dissipated , extravagant idler . 
He is not worth his salt , ma'am . 
He wouldn't get it either , if he hadn't a friend and relation at court , ma'am ! 'Ah h ! said Mrs. Sparsit , with another melancholy shake of her head . 
'I only hope , ma'am , pursued Bitzer , 'that his friend and relation may not supply him with the means of carrying on . 
Otherwise , ma'am , we know out of whose pocket that money comes . 
'Ah h ! sighed Mrs. Sparsit again , with another melancholy shake of her head . 
'He is to be pitied , ma'am . 
The last party I have alluded to , is to be pitied , ma'am , said Bitzer . 
'Yes , Bitzer , said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'I have always pitied the delusion , always . 
'As to an individual , ma'am , said Bitzer , dropping his voice and drawing nearer , 'he is as improvident as any of the people in this town . 
And you know what their improvidence is , ma'am . 
No one could wish to know it better than a lady of your eminence does . 
'They would do well , returned Mrs. Sparsit , 'to take example by you , Bitzer . 
But , since you do refer to me , now look at me , ma'am . 
I have put by a little , ma'am , already . 
That gratuity which I receive at Christmas , ma'am I never touch it . 
I don't even go the length of my wages , though they're not high , ma'am . 
Why can't they do as I have done , ma'am ? What one person can do , another can do . 
This , again , was among the fictions of Coketown . 
What I did you can do . 
Why don't you go and do it ? 'As to their wanting recreations , ma'am , said Bitzer , 'it's stuff and nonsense . 
I never did , and I never shall I don't like 'em . 
Then , why don't they improve it , ma'am ! It's the first consideration of a rational creature , and it's what they pretend to want . 
'Pretend indeed ! said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'I am sure we are constantly hearing , ma'am , till it becomes quite nauseous , concerning their wives and families , said Bitzer . 
'Why look at me , ma'am ! I don't want a wife and family . 
Why should they ? 'Because they are improvident , said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'Yes , ma'am , returned Bitzer , 'that's where it is . 
'To be sure , assented Mrs. Sparsit , eating muffin . 
'Thank you , ma'am , said Bitzer , knuckling his forehead again , in return for the favour of Mrs. Sparsit's improving conversation . 
'Would you wish a little more hot water , ma'am , or is there anything else that I could fetch you ? 'Nothing just now , Bitzer . 
That is his knock , ma'am , no doubt . 
He stepped to the window and looking out , and drawing in his head again , confirmed himself with , 'Yes , ma'am . 
Would you wish the gentleman to be shown in , ma'am ? 'I don't know who it can be , said Mrs. Sparsit , wiping her mouth and arranging her mittens . 
'A stranger , ma'am , evidently . 
If to see him is any part of the duty I have accepted , I will see him . 
Use your own discretion , Bitzer . 
'If you please , ma'am , the gentleman would wish to see you , said Bitzer , with his light eye at Mrs. Sparsit's keyhole . 
The visitor having strolled to the window , and being then engaged in looking carelessly out , was as unmoved by this impressive entry as man could possibly be . 
'I believe , sir , quoth Mrs. Sparsit , 'you wished to see me . 
'I beg your pardon , he said , turning and removing his hat 'pray excuse me . 
'Humph ! thought Mrs. Sparsit , as she made a stately bend . 
'Five and thirty , good looking , good figure , good teeth , good voice , good breeding , well dressed , dark hair , bold eyes . 
All which Mrs. Sparsit observed in her womanly way like the Sultan who put his head in the pail of water merely in dipping down and coming up again . 
'Please to be seated , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit . 
He placed a chair for her , but remained himself carelessly lounging against the table . 
'I left my servant at the railway looking after the luggage very heavy train and vast quantity of it in the van and strolled on , looking about me . 
Will you allow me to ask you if it's always as black as this ? 'In general much blacker , returned Mrs. Sparsit , in her uncompromising way . 
'Is it possible ! Excuse me you are not a native , I think ? 'No , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit . 
'It was once my good or ill fortune , as it may be before I became a widow to move in a very different sphere . 
My husband was a Powler . 
'Beg your pardon , really ! said the stranger . 
'Was ? Mrs. Sparsit repeated , 'A Powler . 
'Powler Family , said the stranger , after reflecting a few moments . 
The stranger seemed a little more fatigued than before . 
'You must be very much bored here ? was the inference he drew from the communication . 
'I am the servant of circumstances , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit , 'and I have long adapted myself to the governing power of my life . 
'May I be permitted to ask , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit , 'to what I am indebted for the favour of 'Assuredly , said the stranger . 
'Much obliged to you for reminding me . 
I am the bearer of a letter of introduction to Mr. Bounderby , the banker . 
Raw material where Mr. Bounderby , the banker , might reside . 
Upon which , misled no doubt by the word Banker , he directed me to the Bank . 
Which I accordingly venture , with all suitable apologies , to do . 
The inattention and indolence of his manner were sufficiently relieved , to Mrs. Sparsit's thinking , by a certain gallantry at ease , which offered her homage too . 
Mrs. Sparsit recognized the hand , intimated that such confirmation was quite unnecessary , and gave Mr. Bounderby's address , with all needful clues and directions in aid . 
'Thousand thanks , said the stranger . 
'Of course you know the Banker well ? 'Yes , sir , rejoined Mrs. Sparsit . 
'In my dependent relation towards him , I have known him ten years . 
'Quite an eternity ! I think he married Gradgrind's daughter ? 'Yes , said Mrs. Sparsit , suddenly compressing her mouth , 'he had that honour . 
'The lady is quite a philosopher , I am told ? 'Indeed , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'Is she ? 'Excuse my impertinent curiosity , pursued the stranger , fluttering over Mrs. Sparsit's eyebrows , with a propitiatory air , 'but you know the family , and know the world . 
I am about to know the family , and may have much to do with them . 
Is the lady so very alarming ? Her father gives her such a portentously hard headed reputation , that I have a burning desire to know . 
Is she absolutely unapproachable ? Repellently and stunningly clever ? I see , by your meaning smile , you think not . 
You have poured balm into my anxious soul . 
As to age , now . 
Forty ? Five and thirty ? Mrs. Sparsit laughed outright . 
'A chit , said she . 
'Not twenty when she was married . 
He looked at his informant for full a quarter of a minute , and appeared to have the surprise in his mind all the time . 
'I assure you , Mrs. Powler , he then said , much exhausted , 'that the father's manner prepared me for a grim and stony maturity . 
I am obliged to you , of all things , for correcting so absurd a mistake . 
'What do you think of the gentleman , Bitzer ? she asked the light porter , when he came to take away . 
'Spends a deal of money on his dress , ma'am . 
'It must be admitted , said Mrs. Sparsit , 'that it's very tasteful . 
'Yes , ma'am , returned Bitzer , 'if that's worth the money . 
'Besides which , ma'am , resumed Bitzer , while he was polishing the table , 'he looks to me as if he gamed . 
'It's immoral to game , said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'It's ridiculous , ma'am , said Bitzer , 'because the chances are against the players . 
Whether it was that the heat prevented Mrs. Sparsit from working , or whether it was that her hand was out , she did no work that night . 
'O , you Fool ! said Mrs. Sparsit , when she was alone at her supper . 
Whom she meant , she did not say but she could scarcely have meant the sweetbread . 
JAMES HARTHOUSE THE Gradgrind party wanted assistance in cutting the throats of the Graces . 
They liked fine gentlemen they pretended that they did not , but they did . 
There never before was seen on earth such a wonderful hybrid race as was thus produced . 
Among the slain was a cow , and among the scattered articles unowned , a widow's cap . 
by putting the cap on the cow , that it became impatient of any serious reference to the Coroner's Inquest , and brought the railway off with Cheers and Laughter . 
To whom this honourable and jocular , member fraternally said one day , 'Jem , there's a good opening among the hard Fact fellows , and they want men . 
I wonder you don't go in for statistics . 
Jem , rather taken by the novelty of the idea , and very hard up for a change , was as ready to 'go in' for statistics as for anything else . 
So , he went in . 
Hence the letter Jem had last night shown to Mrs. Sparsit , which Mr. Bounderby now held in his hand superscribed , 'Josiah Bounderby , Esquire , Banker , Coketown . 
Specially to introduce James Harthouse , Esquire . 
Within an hour of the receipt of this dispatch and Mr. James Harthouse's card , Mr. Bounderby put on his hat and went down to the Hotel . 
There he found Mr. James Harthouse looking out of window , in a state of mind so disconsolate , that he was already half disposed to 'go in' for something else . 
'My name , sir , said his visitor , 'is Josiah Bounderby , of Coketown . 
to have a pleasure he had long expected . 
'Coketown , sir , said Bounderby , obstinately taking a chair , 'is not the kind of place you have been accustomed to . 
Therefore , if you will allow me or whether you will or not , for I am a plain man I'll tell you something about it before we go any further . 
Mr. Harthouse would be charmed . 
'Don't be too sure of that , said Bounderby . 
First of all , you see our smoke . 
That's meat and drink to us . 
It's the healthiest thing in the world in all respects , and particularly for the lungs . 
If you are one of those who want us to consume it , I differ from you . 
We are not going to wear the bottoms of our boilers out any faster than we wear 'em out now , for all the humbugging sentiment in Great Britain and Ireland . 
By way of 'going in' to the fullest extent , Mr. Harthouse rejoined , 'Mr . 
Bounderby , I assure you I am entirely and completely of your way of thinking . 
'I am glad to hear it , said Bounderby . 
'Now , you have heard a lot of talk about the work in our mills , no doubt . 
You have ? Very good . 
I'll state the fact of it to you . 
It's the pleasantest work there is , and it's the lightest work there is , and it's the best paid work there is . 
More than that , we couldn't improve the mills themselves , unless we laid down Turkey carpets on the floors . 
Which we're not a going to do . 
'Lastly , said Bounderby , 'as to our Hands . 
There's not a Hand in this town , sir , man , woman , or child , but has one ultimate object in life . 
That object is , to be fed on turtle soup and venison with a gold spoon . 
Now , they're not a going none of 'em ever to be fed on turtle soup and venison with a gold spoon . 
And now you know the place . 
Mr. Harthouse professed himself in the highest degree instructed and refreshed , by this condensed epitome of the whole Coketown question . 
'Why , you see , replied Mr. Bounderby , 'it suits my disposition to have a full understanding with a man , particularly with a public man , when I make his acquaintance . 
You are a man of family . 
Don't you deceive yourself by supposing for a moment that I am a man of family . 
I am a bit of dirty riff raff , and a genuine scrap of tag , rag , and bobtail . 
If anything could have exalted Jem's interest in Mr. Bounderby , it would have been this very circumstance . 
Or , so he told him . 
'So now , said Bounderby , 'we may shake hands on equal terms . 
I am just as proud as you are . 
Having now asserted my independence in a proper manner , I may come to how do you find yourself , and I hope you're pretty well . 
The better , Mr. Harthouse gave him to understand as they shook hands , for the salubrious air of Coketown . 
Mr. Bounderby received the answer with favour . 
'Perhaps you know , said he , 'or perhaps you don't know , I married Tom Gradgrind's daughter . 
If you have nothing better to do than to walk up town with me , I shall be glad to introduce you to Tom Gradgrind's daughter . 
Bounderby , said Jem , 'you anticipate my dearest wishes . 
In the drawing room of which mansion , there presently entered to them the most remarkable girl Mr. James Harthouse had ever seen . 
In face she was no less remarkable than in manner . 
Her features were handsome but their natural play was so locked up , that it seemed impossible to guess at their genuine expression . 
From the mistress of the house , the visitor glanced to the house itself . 
There was no mute sign of a woman in the room . 
No graceful little adornment , no fanciful little device , however trivial , anywhere expressed her influence . 
Cheerless and comfortless , boastfully and doggedly rich , there the room stared at its present occupants , unsoftened and unrelieved by the least trace of any womanly occupation . 
'This , sir , said Bounderby , 'is my wife , Mrs. Bounderby Tom Gradgrind's eldest daughter . 
Loo , Mr. James Harthouse . 
Mr. Harthouse has joined your father's muster roll . 
If he is not Torn Gradgrind's colleague before long , I believe we shall at least hear of him in connexion with one of our neighbouring towns . 
You observe , Mr. Harthouse , that my wife is my junior . 
I don't know what she saw in me to marry me , but she saw something in me , I suppose , or she wouldn't have married me . 
She has lots of expensive knowledge , sir , political and otherwise . 
If you want to cram for anything , I should be troubled to recommend you to a better adviser than Loo Bounderby . 
To a more agreeable adviser , or one from whom he would be more likely to learn , Mr. Harthouse could never be recommended . 
'Come ! said his host . 
'If you're in the complimentary line , you'll get on here , for you'll meet with no competition . 
I have never been in the way of learning compliments myself , and I don't profess to understand the art of paying 'em . 
In fact , despise 'em . 
But , your bringing up was different from mine mine was a real thing , by George ! You're a gentleman , and I don't pretend to be one . 
I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown , and that's enough for me . 
However , though I am not influenced by manners and station , Loo Bounderby may be . 
She hadn't my advantages disadvantages you would call 'em , but I call 'em advantages so you'll not waste your power , I dare say . 
'You respect Mr. Bounderby very much , she quietly returned . 
'It is natural that you should . 
Bounderby , he returned , laughing , 'upon my honour , no . 
I will make no such pretence to you . 
'Have you none of your own ? asked Louisa . 
'I have not so much as the slightest predilection left . 
I assure you I attach not the least importance to any opinions . 
, that any set of ideas will do just as much good as any other set , and just as much harm as any other set . 
There's an English family with a charming Italian motto . 
What will be , will be . 
I am quite as much attached to it as if I believed it . 
I am quite ready to go in for it , to the same extent as if I believed it . 
And what more could I possibly do , if I did believe it ! 'You are a singular politician , said Louisa . 
'Pardon me I have not even that merit . 
We are the largest party in the state , I assure you , Mrs. Bounderby , if we all fell out of our adopted ranks and were reviewed together . 
The round of visits was made and Mr. James Harthouse , with a discreet use of his blue coaching , came off triumphantly , though with a considerable accession of boredom . 
In the evening , he found the dinner table laid for four , but they sat down only three . 
had eaten in his youth at least three horses under the guise of polonies and saveloys . 
She changed as the door opened , and broke into a beaming smile . 
Mr. James Harthouse might not have thought so much of it , but that he had wondered so long at her impassive face . 
She put out her hand a pretty little soft hand and her fingers closed upon her brother's , as if she would have carried them to her lips . 
'Ay , ay ? thought the visitor . 
'This whelp is the only creature she cares for . 
So , so ! The whelp was presented , and took his chair . 
The appellation was not flattering , but not unmerited . 
'Never mind that now , said Bounderby . 
'Well , then , grumbled Tom . 
Bounderby , said Harthouse , perfectly hearing this under strain as it went on 'your brother's face is quite familiar to me . 
Tom , love , I am telling Mr. Harthouse that he never saw you abroad . 
'No such luck , sir , said Tom . 
There was little enough in him to brighten her face , for he was a sullen young fellow , and ungracious in his manner even to her . 
So much the greater must have been the solitude of her heart , and her need of some one on whom to bestow it . 
'So much the more is this whelp the only creature she has ever cared for , thought Mr. James Harthouse , turning it over and over . 
Without responding to these telegraphic communications , Mr. Harthouse encouraged him much in the course of the evening , and showed an unusual liking for him . 
'Do you smoke ? asked Mr. James Harthouse , when they came to the hotel . 
'I believe you ! said Tom . 
He could do no less than ask Tom up and Tom could do no less than go up . 
Tom blew his smoke aside , after he had been smoking a little while , and took an observation of his friend . 
'He don't seem to care about his dress , thought Tom , 'and yet how capitally he does it . 
What an easy swell he is ! Mr. James Harthouse , happening to catch Tom's eye , remarked that he drank nothing , and filled his glass with his own negligent hand . 
Well , Mr. Harthouse , I hope you have had about a dose of old Bounderby to night . 
Tom said this with one eye shut up again , and looking over his glass knowingly , at his entertainer . 
'A very good fellow indeed ! returned Mr. James Harthouse . 
'You think so , don't you ? said Tom . 
And shut up his eye again . 
'You are a piece of caustic , Tom , retorted Mr. James Harthouse . 
'Oh ! I don't care for old Bounderby , said he , 'if you mean that . 
I have always called old Bounderby by the same name when I have talked about him , and I have always thought of him in the same way . 
I am not going to begin to be polite now , about old Bounderby . 
It would be rather late in the day . 
'Don't mind me , returned James 'but take care when his wife is by , you know . 
'His wife ? said Tom . 
'My sister Loo ? O yes ! And he laughed , and took a little more of the cooling drink . 
It certainly did seem that the whelp yielded to this influence . 
He looked at his companion sneakingly , he looked at him admiringly , he looked at him boldly , and put up one leg on the sofa . 
'My sister Loo ? said Tom . 
'She never cared for old Bounderby . 
'That's the past tense , Tom , returned Mr. James Harthouse , striking the ash from his cigar with his little finger . 
'We are in the present tense , now . 
'Verb neuter , not to care . 
Indicative mood , present tense . 
First person singular , I do not care second person singular , thou dost not care third person singular , she does not care , returned Tom . 
'Good ! Very quaint ! said his friend . 
'Though you don't mean it . 
'But I do mean it , cried Tom . 
'Upon my honour ! Why , you won't tell me , Mr. Harthouse , that you really suppose my sister Loo does care for old Bounderby . 
If his second leg had not been already there when he was called a dear fellow , he would have put it up at that great stage of the conversation . 
'You know our governor , Mr. Harthouse , said Tom , 'and therefore , you needn't be surprised that Loo married old Bounderby . 
She never had a lover , and the governor proposed old Bounderby , and she took him . 
'Very dutiful in your interesting sister , said Mr. James Harthouse . 
'Yes , but she wouldn't have been as dutiful , and it would not have come off as easily , returned the whelp , 'if it hadn't been for me . 
The tempter merely lifted his eyebrows but the whelp was obliged to go on . 
'I persuaded her , he said , with an edifying air of superiority . 
, and I knew I should get into scrapes there , if she put old Bounderby's pipe out so I told her my wishes , and she came into them . 
She would do anything for me . 
It wasn't as if she gave up another lover for old Bounderby but still it was a good thing in her . 
And she gets on so placidly . 
'Oh , returned Tom , with contemptuous patronage , 'she's a regular girl . 
A girl can get on anywhere . 
She has settled down to the life , and she don't mind . 
It does just as well as another . 
Besides , though Loo is a girl , she's not a common sort of girl . 
She can shut herself up within herself , and think as I have often known her sit and watch the fire for an hour at a stretch . 
'Ay , ay ? Has resources of her own , said Harthouse , smoking quietly . 
'Not so much of that as you may suppose , returned Tom 'for our governor had her crammed with all sorts of dry bones and sawdust . 
'Formed his daughter on his own model ? suggested Harthouse . 
'His daughter ? Ah ! and everybody else . 
Why , he formed Me that way ! said Tom . 
'Impossible ! 'He did , though , said Tom , shaking his head . 
'Come , Tom ! I can hardly believe that . 
'Upon my soul ! said the whelp . 
But I have done it myself no thanks to the governor . 
'And your intelligent sister ? 'My intelligent sister is about where she was . 
But she don't mind , he sagaciously added , puffing at his cigar again . 
'Girls can always get on , somehow . 
'Mother Sparsit ! said Tom . 
'What ! you have seen her already , have you ? His friend nodded . 
with the greater expression , and to tap his nose several times with his finger . 
'Mother Sparsit's feeling for Loo is more than admiration , I should think , said Tom . 
Mother Sparsit never set her cap at Bounderby when he was a bachelor . 
Oh no ! These were the last words spoken by the whelp , before a giddy drowsiness came upon him , followed by complete oblivion . 
He was roused from the latter state by an uneasy dream of being stirred up with a boot , and also of a voice saying 'Come , it's late . 
Be off ! 'Well ! he said , scrambling from the sofa . 
'I must take my leave of you though . 
Yours is very good tobacco . 
'Yes , it's too mild , returned his entertainer . 
'It's it's ridiculously mild , said Tom . 
The whelp went home , and went to bed . 
He had declaimed himself into a violent heat , and was as hoarse as he was hot . 
Judging him by Nature's evidence , he was above the mass in very little but the stage on which he stood . 
In many great respects he was essentially below them . 
He was not so honest , he was not so manly , he was not so good humoured he substituted cunning for their simplicity , and passion for their safe solid sense . 
Good ! Hear , hear ! Hurrah ! The eagerness both of attention and intention , exhibited in all the countenances , made them a most impressive sight . 
There was no carelessness , no languor , no idle curiosity none of the many shades of indifference to be seen in all other assemblies , visible for one moment there . 
There were some groans and hisses , but the general sense of honour was much too strong for the condemnation of a man unheard . 
'Be sure you're right , Slackbridge ! 'Put him up ! 'Let's hear him ! Such things were said on many sides . 
Finally , one strong voice called out , 'Is the man heer ? If the man's heer , Slackbridge , let's hear the man himseln , 'stead o' yo . 
Which was received with a round of applause . 
, to still the thundering sea , waited until there was a profound silence . 
He was pale and a little moved in the face his lips especially showed it but he stood quiet , with his left hand at his chin , waiting to be heard . 
There was a chairman to regulate the proceedings , and this functionary now took the case into his own hands . 
You all know this man Stephen Blackpool . 
You know him awlung o' his misfort'ns , and his good name . 
With that , the chairman shook him frankly by the hand , and sat down again . 
Slackbridge likewise sat down , wiping his hot forehead always from left to right , and never the reverse way . 
'My friends , Stephen began , in the midst of a dead calm 'I ha' hed what's been spok'n o' me , and 'tis lickly that I shan't mend it . 
But I'd liefer you'd hearn the truth concernin myseln , fro my lips than fro onny other man's , though I never cud'n speak afore so monny , wi'out bein moydert and muddled . 
Slackbridge shook his head as if he would shake it off , in his bitterness . 
'I'm th' one single Hand in Bounderby's mill , o' a' the men theer , as don't coom in wi' th' proposed reg'lations . 
I canna coom in wi' 'em . 
My friends , I doubt their doin' yo onny good . 
Licker they'll do yo hurt . 
Slackbridge laughed , folded his arms , and frowned sarcastically . 
'But 't an't sommuch for that as I stands out . 
If that were aw , I'd coom in wi' th' rest . 
But I ha' my reasons mine , yo see for being hindered not on'y now , but awlus awlus life long ! Slackbridge jumped up and stood beside him , gnashing and tearing . 
They looked at Stephen's worn face , rendered more pathetic by the homely emotions it evinced and , in the kindness of their nature , they were more sorry than indignant . 
''Tis this Delegate's trade for t' speak , said Stephen , 'an' he's paid for 't , an' he knows his work . 
Let him keep to 't . 
Let him give no heed to what I ha had'n to bear . 
That's not for nobbody but me . 
There was a propriety , not to say a dignity in these words , that made the hearers yet more quiet and attentive . 
The same strong voice called out , 'Slackbridge , let the man be heern , and howd thee tongue ! Then the place was wonderfully still . 
I know weel , aw what's afore me . 
I know weel that yo aw resolve to ha nommore ado wi' a man who is not wi' yo in this matther . 
I know weel that if I was a lyin parisht i' th' road , yo'd feel it right to pass me by , as a forrenner and stranger . 
What I ha getn , I mun mak th' best on . 
'Stephen Blackpool , said the chairman , rising , 'think on 't agen . 
Think on 't once agen , lad , afore thou'rt shunned by aw owd friends . 
There was an universal murmur to the same effect , though no man articulated a word . 
Every eye was fixed on Stephen's face . 
To repent of his determination , would be to take a load from all their minds . 
He looked around him , and knew that it was so . 
Not a grain of anger with them was in his heart he knew them , far below their surface weaknesses and misconceptions , as no one but their fellow labourer could . 
'I ha thowt on 't , above a bit , sir . 
I simply canna coom in . 
I mun go th' way as lays afore me . 
I mun tak my leave o' aw heer . 
He made a sort of reverence to them by holding up his arms , and stood for the moment in that attitude not speaking until they slowly dropped at his sides . 
'Monny's the pleasant word as soom heer has spok'n wi' me monny's the face I see heer , as I first seen when I were yoong and lighter heart'n than now . 
I ha' never had no fratch afore , sin ever I were born , wi' any o' my like Gonnows I ha' none now that's o' my makin' . 
Yo'll ca' me traitor and that yo I mean t' say , addressing Slackbridge , 'but 'tis easier to ca' than mak' out . 
He had moved away a pace or two to come down from the platform , when he remembered something he had not said , and returned again . 
If there is any right for me at aw , my friends , I think 'tis that . 
Not a word was spoken . 
And consequently three cheers for the United Aggregate Tribunal ! Slackbridge acted as fugleman , and gave the time . 
brightened at the sound , and took it up . 
Private feeling must yield to the common cause . 
Hurrah ! The roof yet vibrated with the cheering , when the assembly dispersed . 
Thus easily did Stephen Blackpool fall into the loneliest of lives , the life of solitude among a familiar crowd . 
By general consent , they even avoided that side of the street on which he habitually walked and left it , of all the working men , to him only . 
He had been for many years , a quiet silent man , associating but little with other men , and used to companionship with his own thoughts . 
It was even harder than he could have believed possible , to separate in his own conscience his abandonment by all his fellows from a baseless sense of shame and disgrace . 
The first four days of his endurance were days so long and heavy , that he began to be appalled by the prospect before him . 
'Your name's Blackpool , ain't it ? said the young man . 
Stephen coloured to find himself with his hat in his hand , in his gratitude for being spoken to , or in the suddenness of it , or both . 
He made a feint of adjusting the lining , and said , 'Yes . 
'You are the Hand they have sent to Coventry , I mean ? said Bitzer , the very light young man in question . 
Stephen answered 'Yes , again . 
'I supposed so , from their all appearing to keep away from you . 
Mr. Bounderby wants to speak to you . 
You know his house , don't you ? Stephen said 'Yes , again . 
'Then go straight up there , will you ? said Bitzer . 
'You're expected , and have only to tell the servant it's you . 
, you'll save me a walk . 
Stephen , whose way had been in the contrary direction , turned about , and betook himself as in duty bound , to the red brick castle of the giant Bounderby . 
It was into the drawing room that he was thus bidden . 
A tea table was set out and Mr. Bounderby's young wife , and her brother , and a great gentleman from London , were present . 
To whom Stephen made his obeisance , closing the door and standing near it , with his hat in his hand . 
'This is the man I was telling you about , Harthouse , said Mr. Bounderby . 
'Now , said Bounderby , 'speak up ! After the four days he had passed , this address fell rudely and discordantly on Stephen's ear . 
Besides being a rough handling of his wounded mind , it seemed to assume that he really was the self interested deserter he had been called . 
'What were it , sir , said Stephen , 'as yo were pleased to want wi' me ? 'Why , I have told you , returned Bounderby . 
'Speak up like a man , since you are a man , and tell us about yourself and this Combination . 
'Wi' yor pardon , sir , said Stephen Blackpool , 'I ha' nowt to sen about it . 
Mr. Bounderby , who was always more or less like a Wind , finding something in his way here , began to blow at it directly . 
'Now , look here , Harthouse , said he , 'here's a specimen of 'em . 
'You said ! Ah ! I know what you said more than that , I know what you mean , you see . 
Not always the same thing , by the Lord Harry ! Quite different things . 
You had better tell us so at once you can't deceive me . 
You want to tell us so . 
Why don't you ? 'I'm as sooary as yo , sir , when the people's leaders is bad , said Stephen , shaking his head . 
'They taks such as offers . 
Haply 'tis na' the sma'est o' their misfortuns when they can get no better . 
The wind began to get boisterous . 
'Now , you'll think this pretty well , Harthouse , said Mr. Bounderby . 
'You'll think this tolerably strong . 
'I'd leefer not coom to 't , sir but sin you put th' question an' not want'n t' be ill manner'n I'll answer . 
I ha passed a promess . 
'Not to me , you know , said Bounderby . 
'As for me , any consideration for me has had just nothing at all to do with it , said Bounderby , still in confidence with the wall . 
'If only Josiah Bounderby of Coketown had been in question , you would have joined and made no bones about it ? 'Why yes , sir . 
Did you ever meet with anything like that man out of this blessed country ? And Mr. Bounderby pointed him out for inspection , with an angry finger . 
'Nay , ma'am , said Stephen Blackpool , staunchly protesting against the words that had been used , and instinctively addressing himself to Louisa , after glancing at her face . 
'Not rebels , nor yet rascals . 
Nowt o' th' kind , ma'am , nowt o' th' kind . 
They've not doon me a kindness , ma'am , as I know and feel . 
But there's not a dozen men amoong 'em , ma'am a dozen ? Not six but what believes as he has doon his duty by the rest and by himseln . 
'No , ma'am , no . 
They're true to one another , faithfo' to one another , 'fectionate to one another , e'en to death . 
Be sure o' that , ma'am . 
They'd be riven to bits , ere ever they'd be different . 
'In short , said Mr. Bounderby , 'it's because they are so full of virtues that they have turned you adrift . 
Go through with it while you are about it . 
I know 'tis , as I know the heavens is over me ahint the smoke . 
We're patient too , an' wants in general to do right . 
An' I canna think the fawt is aw wi' us . 
You said just now , that you had nothing to tell us about this business . 
You are quite sure of that before we go any further . 
'Sir , I am sure on 't . 
'Here's a gentleman from London present , Mr. Bounderby made a backhanded point at Mr. James Harthouse with his thumb , 'a Parliament gentleman . 
Stephen bent his head to the gentleman from London , and showed a rather more troubled mind than usual . 
he settled them on Mr. Bounderby's face . 
'Now , what do you complain of ? asked Mr. Bounderby . 
'I ha' not coom here , sir , Stephen reminded him , 'to complain . 
I coom for that I were sent for . 
'Sir , I were never good at showin o 't , though I ha had'n my share in feeling o 't . 
'Deed we are in a muddle , sir . 
Look how this ha growen an' growen , sir , bigger an' bigger , broader an' broader , harder an' harder , fro year to year , fro generation unto generation . 
Who can look on 't , sir , and fairly tell a man 'tis not a muddle ? 'Of course , said Mr. Bounderby . 
I canna be expecten to 't . 
'Tis not me as should be looken to for that , sir . 
'Tis them as is put ower me , and ower aw the rest of us . 
What do they tak upon themseln , sir , if not to do't ? 'I'll tell you something towards it , at any rate , returned Mr. Bounderby . 
'We will make an example of half a dozen Slackbridges . 
We'll indict the blackguards for felony , and get 'em shipped off to penal settlements . 
Stephen gravely shook his head . 
'Tis not wi' them 't commences . 
Put that clock aboard a ship an' pack it off to Norfolk Island , an' the time will go on just the same . 
So 'tis wi' Slackbridge every bit . 
Reverting for a moment to his former refuge , he observed a cautionary movement of her eyes towards the door . 
Stepping back , he put his hand upon the lock . 
He stayed to finish what was in his mind . 
The strong hand will never do 't . 
Vict'ry and triumph will never do 't . 
Agreeing fur to mak one side unnat'rally awlus and for ever right , and toother side unnat'rally awlus and for ever wrong , will never , never do 't . 
Nor yet lettin alone will never do 't . 
Stephen stood with the open door in his hand , waiting to know if anything more were expected of him . 
'Just stop a moment , said Mr. Bounderby , excessively red in the face . 
'I told you , the last time you were here with a grievance , that you had better turn about and come out of that . 
And I also told you , if you remember , that I was up to the gold spoon look out . 
'I were not up to 't myseln , sir I do assure yo . 
'Now it's clear to me , said Mr. Bounderby , 'that you are one of those chaps who have always got a grievance . 
And you go about , sowing it and raising crops . 
That's the business of your life , my friend . 
Stephen shook his head , mutely protesting that indeed he had other business to do for his life . 
Stephen raised his eyes quickly to his face . 
'You can finish off what you're at , said Mr. Bounderby , with a meaning nod , 'and then go elsewhere . 
'Sir , yo know weel , said Stephen expressively , 'that if I canna get work wi' yo , I canna get it elsewheer . 
The reply was , 'What I know , I know and what you know , you know . 
I have no more to say about it . 
CHAPTER VI FADING AWAY IT was falling dark when Stephen came out of Mr. Bounderby's house . 
The shadows of night had gathered so fast , that he did not look about him when he closed the door , but plodded straight along the street . 
He saw Rachael first , as he had heard her only . 
'Here I am again , you see . 
'But how wi' Rachael ? said Stephen , falling into their step , walking between them , and looking from the one to the other . 
'Why , I come to be with this good lass pretty much as I came to be with you , said the old woman , cheerfully , taking the reply upon herself . 
'My visiting time is later this year than usual , for I have been rather troubled with shortness of breath , and so put it off till the weather was fine and warm . 
, and go back Parliamentary , at six in the morning . 
Well , but what has this to do with this good lass , says you ? I'm going to tell you . 
I have heard of Mr. Bounderby being married . 
I read it in the paper , where it looked grand oh , it looked fine ! the old woman dwelt on it with strange enthusiasm 'and I want to see his wife . 
I have never seen her yet . 
Now , if you'll believe me , she hasn't come out of that house since noon to day . 
With a gentleness that was as natural to him as he knew it to be to Rachael , he pursued the subject that interested her in her old age . 
'Well , missus , said he , 'I ha seen the lady , and she were young and hansom . 
Wi' fine dark thinkin eyes , and a still way , Rachael , as I ha never seen the like on . 
Yes ! cried the old woman , quite delighted . 
'As bonny as a rose ! And what a happy wife ! 'Aye , missus , I suppose she be , said Stephen . 
But with a doubtful glance at Rachael . 
'Suppose she be ? She must be . 
She's your master's wife , returned the old woman . 
'Though as to master , said he , glancing again at Rachael , 'not master onny more . 
That's aw enden 'twixt him and me . 
'Have you left his work , Stephen ? asked Rachael , anxiously and quickly . 
'Why , Rachael , he replied , 'whether I ha lef'n his work , or whether his work ha lef'n me , cooms t' th' same . 
His work and me are parted . 
'Tis as weel so better , I were thinkin when yo coom up wi' me . 
It would ha brought'n trouble upon trouble if I had stayed theer . 
Haply 'tis a kindness to monny that I go haply 'tis a kindness to myseln anyways it mun be done . 
I mun turn my face fro Coketown fur th' time , and seek a fort'n , dear , by beginnin fresh . 
'Where will you go , Stephen ? 'I donno t'night , said he , lifting off his hat , and smoothing his thin hair with the flat of his hand . 
'But I'm not goin t'night , Rachael , nor yet t'morrow . 
'Tan't easy overmuch t' know wheer t' turn , but a good heart will coom to me . 
Herein , too , the sense of even thinking unselfishly aided him . 
So he said , with truth , 'I'm more leetsome , Rachael , under 't , than I could'n ha believed . 
It was not her part to make his burden heavier . 
She answered with her comforting smile , and the three walked on together . 
Age , especially when it strives to be self reliant and cheerful , finds much consideration among the poor . 
'Come to my poor place , missus , said Stephen , 'and tak a coop o' tea . 
Rachael will coom then and arterwards I'll see thee safe t' thy Travellers' lodgin . 
'T may be long , Rachael , ere ever I ha th' chance o' thy coompany agen . 
They complied , and the three went on to the house where he lodged . 
The evil spirit of his life had flitted away again , months ago , and he had heard no more of her since . 
The only evidence of her last return now , were the scantier moveables in his room , and the grayer hair upon his head . 
, and the visitor enjoyed it mightily . 
It was the first glimpse of sociality the host had had for many days . 
'I ha never thowt yet , missus , said Stephen , 'o' askin thy name . 
The old lady announced herself as 'Mrs . 
'A widder , I think ? said Stephen . 
was already dead , by Mrs. Pegler's calculation , when Stephen was born . 
''Twere a bad job , too , to lose so good a one , said Stephen . 
'Onny children ? Mrs. Pegler's cup , rattling against her saucer as she held it , denoted some nervousness on her part . 
'Not now , not now . 
'Dead , Stephen , Rachael softly hinted . 
'I'm sooary I ha spok'n on 't , said Stephen , 'I ought t' hadn in my mind as I might touch a sore place . 
While he excused himself , the old lady's cup rattled more and more . 
'I had a son , she said , curiously distressed , and not by any of the usual appearances of sorrow 'and he did well , wonderfully well . 
But he is not to be spoken of if you please . 
He is Putting down her cup , she moved her hands as if she would have added , by her action , 'dead ! Then she said aloud , 'I have lost him . 
Mrs. Pegler was by no means deaf , for she caught a word as it was uttered . 
'Bounderby ! she cried , in a suppressed voice , starting up from the table . 
'Oh hide me ! Don't let me be seen for the world . 
Don't let him come up till I've got away . 
Pray , pray ! She trembled , and was excessively agitated getting behind Rachael , when Rachael tried to reassure her and not seeming to know what she was about . 
'But hearken , missus , hearken , said Stephen , astonished . 
Tisn't Mr. Bounderby 'tis his wife . 
Yo'r not fearfo' o' her . 
Yo was hey go mad about her , but an hour sin . 
'But are you sure it's the lady , and not the gentleman ? she asked , still trembling . 
'Certain sure ! 'Well then , pray don't speak to me , nor yet take any notice of me , said the old woman . 
'Let me be quite to myself in this corner . 
She was followed by the whelp . 
Rachael had risen , and stood apart with her shawl and bonnet in her hand , when Stephen , himself profoundly astonished by this visit , put the candle on the table . 
Then he too stood , with his doubled hand upon the table near it , waiting to be addressed . 
She knew of their existence by hundreds and by thousands . 
She knew what results in work a given number of them would produce in a given space of time . 
She knew them in crowds passing to and from their nests , like ants or beetles . 
But she knew from her reading infinitely more of the ways of toiling insects than of these toiling men and women . 
, and fell again this she knew the Coketown Hands to be . 
But , she had scarcely thought more of separating them into units , than of separating the sea itself into its component drops . 
She stood for some moments looking round the room . 
From the few chairs , the few books , the common prints , and the bed , she glanced to the two women , and to Stephen . 
'I have come to speak to you , in consequence of what passed just now . 
I should like to be serviceable to you , if you will let me . 
Is this your wife ? Rachael raised her eyes , and they sufficiently answered no , and dropped again . 
It was not my meaning to ask a question that would give pain to any one here . 
As Stephen had but a little while ago instinctively addressed himself to her , so she now instinctively addressed herself to Rachael . 
Her manner was short and abrupt , yet faltering and timid . 
'He has told you what has passed between himself and my husband ? You would be his first resource , I think . 
'I have heard the end of it , young lady , said Rachael . 
'What shall I understand that you mean by a bad name ? 'The name of being troublesome . 
'He fell into suspicion , said Louisa , 'with his fellow weavers , because he had made a promise not to be one of them . 
I think it must have been to you that he made that promise . 
Might I ask you why he made it ? Rachael burst into tears . 
'I didn't seek it of him , poor lad . 
I prayed him to avoid trouble for his own good , little thinking he'd come to it through me . 
But I know he'd die a hundred deaths , ere ever he'd break his word . 
I know that of him well . 
Stephen had remained quietly attentive , in his usual thoughtful attitude , with his hand at his chin . 
He now spoke in a voice rather less steady than usual . 
'No one , excepting myseln , can ever know what honour , an' what love , an' respect , I bear to Rachael , or wi' what cause . 
When I passed that promess , I towd her true , she were th' Angel o' my life . 
'Tis gone fro' me , for ever . 
Louisa turned her head to him , and bent it with a deference that was new in her . 
She looked from him to Rachael , and her features softened . 
'What will you do ? she asked him . 
And her voice had softened too . 
'Weel , ma'am , said Stephen , making the best of it , with a smile 'when I ha finished off , I mun quit this part , and try another . 
Fortnet or misfortnet , a man can but try there's nowt to be done wi'out tryin' cept laying down and dying . 
'How will you travel ? 'Afoot , my kind ledy , afoot . 
Louisa coloured , and a purse appeared in her hand . 
The rustling of a bank note was audible , as she unfolded one and laid it on the table . 
'Bless you for thinking o' the poor lad wi' such tenderness . 
But 'tis for him to know his heart , and what is right according to it . 
She stretched out hers , as if she would have touched him then checked herself , and remained still . 
'Not e'en Rachael , said Stephen , when he stood again with his face uncovered , 'could mak sitch a kind offerin , by onny words , kinder . 
T' show that I'm not a man wi'out reason and gratitude , I'll tak two pound . 
I'll borrow 't for t' pay 't back . 
'Twill be the sweetest work as ever I ha done , that puts it in my power t' acknowledge once more my lastin thankfulness for this present action . 
She was fain to take up the note again , and to substitute the much smaller sum he had named . 
Tom had sat upon the bed , swinging one leg and sucking his walking stick with sufficient unconcern , until the visit had attained this stage . 
Seeing his sister ready to depart , he got up , rather hurriedly , and put in a word . 
'Just wait a moment , Loo ! Before we go , I should like to speak to him a moment . 
Something comes into my head . 
If you'll step out on the stairs , Blackpool , I'll mention it . 
Never mind a light , man ! Tom was remarkably impatient of his moving towards the cupboard , to get one . 
'It don't want a light . 
Stephen followed him out , and Tom closed the room door , and held the lock in his hand . 
'I say ! he whispered . 
'I think I can do you a good turn . 
Don't ask me what it is , because it may not come to anything . 
But there's no harm in my trying . 
His breath fell like a flame of fire on Stephen's ear , it was so hot . 
'That was our light porter at the Bank , said Tom , 'who brought you the message to night . 
I call him our light porter , because I belong to the Bank too . 
Stephen thought , 'What a hurry he is in ! He spoke so confusedly . 
'Now look here ! When are you off ? 'T' day's Monday , replied Stephen , considering . 
'Why , sir , Friday or Saturday , nigh 'bout . 
'Friday or Saturday , said Tom . 
So I tell you what . 
You'll know our light porter again ? 'Yes , sure , said Stephen . 
'Very well , returned Tom . 
In that case he'll have a note or a message for you , but not else . 
Now look here ! You are sure you understand . 
'I understand , sir , said Stephen . 
'Now look here ! repeated Tom . 
'Be sure you don't make any mistake then , and don't forget . 
I shall tell my sister as we go home , what I have in view , and she'll approve , I know . 
Now look here ! You're all right , are you ? You understand all about it ? Very well then . 
Come along , Loo ! He pushed the door open as he called to her , but did not return into the room , or wait to be lighted down the narrow stairs . 
He was at the bottom when she began to descend , and was in the street before she could take his arm . 
Mrs. Pegler remained in her corner until the brother and sister were gone , and until Stephen came back with the candle in his hand . 
She was in a state of inexpressible admiration of Mrs. Bounderby , and , like an unaccountable old woman , wept , 'because she was such a pretty dear . 
Yet Mrs. Pegler was so flurried lest the object of her admiration should return by chance , or anybody else should come , that her cheerfulness was ended for that night . 
They walked back together to the corner of the street where Rachael lived , and as they drew nearer and nearer to it , silence crept upon them . 
When they came to the dark corner where their unfrequent meetings always ended , they stopped , still silent , as if both were afraid to speak . 
'I shall strive t' see thee agen , Rachael , afore I go , but if not 'Thou wilt not , Stephen , I know . 
'Tis better that we make up our minds to be open wi' one another . 
I ha been thinkin then , Rachael , that as 'tis but a day or two that remains , 'twere better for thee , my dear , not t' be seen wi' me . 
'T might bring thee into trouble , fur no good . 
''Tis not for that , Stephen , that I mind . 
But thou know'st our old agreement . 
'Well , well , said he . 
'Thou'lt write to me , and tell me all that happens , Stephen ? 'Yes . 
Thou mak'st me see it wi' a better eye . 
Good bye ! It was but a hurried parting in a common street , yet it was a sacred remembrance to these two common people . 
Utilitarian economists , skeletons of schoolmasters , Commissioners of Fact , genteel and used up infidels , gabblers of many little dog's eared creeds , the poor you will have always with you . 
Stephen worked the next day , and the next , uncheered by a word from any one , and shunned in all his comings and goings as before . 
At the end of the second day , he saw land at the end of the third , his loom stood empty . 
He had overstayed his hour in the street outside the Bank , on each of the two first evenings and nothing had happened there , good or bad . 
That he might not be remiss in his part of the engagement , he resolved to wait full two hours , on this third and last night . 
Two hours were a long stretch of lounging about , after a long day's labour . 
Some purpose or other is so natural to every one , that a mere loiterer always looks and feels remarkable . 
When the first hour was out , Stephen even began to have an uncomfortable sensation upon him of being for the time a disreputable character . 
Then came the lamplighter , and two lengthening lines of light all down the long perspective of the street , until they were blended and lost in the distance . 
Mrs. Sparsit closed the first floor window , drew down the blind , and went up stairs . 
Presently , a light went up stairs after her , passing first the fanlight of the door , and afterwards the two staircase windows , on its way up . 
Still , no communication was made to Stephen . 
Much relieved when the two hours were at last accomplished , he went away at a quick pace , as a recompense for so much loitering . 
He meant to be clear of the town very early before the Hands were in the streets . 
It was barely daybreak , when , with a parting look round his room , mournfully wondering whether he should ever see it again , he went out . 
The town was as entirely deserted as if the inhabitants had abandoned it , rather than hold communication with him . 
Everything looked wan at that hour . 
Even the coming sun made but a pale waste in the sky , like a sad sea . 
Day was shining radiantly upon the town then , and the bells were going for the morning work . 
Domestic fires were not yet lighted , and the high chimneys had the sky to themselves . 
So strange to turn from the chimneys to the birds . 
So strange , to have the road dust on his feet instead of the coal grit . 
And the trees arched over him , whispering that he left a true and loving heart behind . 
JAMES HARTHOUSE , 'going in' for his adopted party , soon began to score . 
'Whom none of us believe , my dear Mrs. Bounderby , and who do not believe themselves . 
Why should she be shocked or warned by this reiteration ? It was not so unlike her father's principles , and her early training , that it need startle her . 
With doubts , because the aspiration had been so laid waste in her youth . 
With resentments , because of the wrong that had been done her , if it were indeed a whisper of the truth . 
Upon a nature long accustomed to self suppression , thus torn and divided , the Harthouse philosophy came as a relief and justification . 
Everything being hollow and worthless , she had missed nothing and sacrificed nothing . 
What did it matter , she had said to her father , when he proposed her husband . 
What did it matter , she said still . 
With a scornful self reliance , she asked herself , What did anything matter and went on . 
Towards what ? Step by step , onward and downward , towards some end , yet so gradually , that she believed herself to remain motionless . 
As to Mr. Harthouse , whither he tended , he neither considered nor cared . 
He had no particular design or plan before him no energetic wickedness ruffled his lassitude . 
After that , he wrote no more about them , and devoted his leisure chiefly to their house . 
He was very often in their house , in his flittings and visitings about the Coketown district and was much encouraged by Mr. Bounderby . 
Mr. James Harthouse began to think it would be a new sensation , if the face which changed so beautifully for the whelp , would change for him . 
He was quick enough to observe he had a good memory , and did not forget a word of the brother's revelations . 
He interwove them with everything he saw of the sister , and he began to understand her . 
These accidents did sometimes happen in the best regulated families of Coketown , but the bankrupts had no connexion whatever with the improvident classes . 
It afforded Mr. Bounderby supreme satisfaction to instal himself in this snug little estate , and with demonstrative humility to grow cabbages in the flower garden . 
He delighted to live , barrack fashion , among the elegant furniture , and he bullied the very pictures with his origin . 
'Why , sir , he would say to a visitor , 'I am told that Nickits , the late owner , 'gave seven hundred pound for that Seabeach . 
No , by George ! I don't forget that I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown . 
'Harthouse , you have a couple of horses down here . 
Bring half a dozen more if you like , and we'll find room for 'em . 
There's stabling in this place for a dozen horses and unless Nickits is belied , he kept the full number . 
A round dozen of 'em , sir . 
When that man was a boy , he went to Westminster School . 
Went to Westminster School as a King's Scholar , when I was principally living on garbage , and sleeping in market baskets . 
I couldn't look at 'em , sir , and not order 'em out . 
Yet so things come round . 
Bounderby , I esteem it a most fortunate accident that I find you alone here . 
I have for some time had a particular wish to speak to you . 
It was not by any wonderful accident that he found her , the time of day being that at which she was always alone , and the place being her favourite resort . 
He sat down beside her , with a glance at her face . 
My young friend Tom Her colour brightened , and she turned to him with a look of interest . 
The expression of your sisterly interest is so beautiful Tom should be so proud of it I know this is inexcusable , but I am so compelled to admire . 
'Being so impulsive , she said composedly . 
Bounderby , no you know I make no pretence with you . 
You know I am a sordid piece of human nature , ready to sell myself at any time for any reasonable sum , and altogether incapable of any Arcadian proceeding whatever . 
'I am waiting , she returned , 'for your further reference to my brother . 
'You are rigid with me , and I deserve it . 
I am as worthless a dog as you will find , except that I am not false not false . 
But you surprised and started me from my subject , which was your brother . 
I have an interest in him . 
'Have you an interest in anything , Mr. Harthouse ? she asked , half incredulously and half gratefully . 
'If you had asked me when I first came here , I should have said no . 
I must say now even at the hazard of appearing to make a pretence , and of justly awakening your incredulity yes . 
She made a slight movement , as if she were trying to speak , but could not find voice at length she said , 'Mr . 
Harthouse , I give you credit for being interested in my brother . 
I claim to deserve it . 
You know how little I do claim , but I will go that length . 
I am interested in him for his own sake . 
She had made the slightest action possible , as if she would have risen in a hurry and gone away . 
He had turned the course of what he said at that instant , and she remained . 
'Allow me to be frank . 
Do you think he games at all ? 'I think he makes bets . 
Mr. Harthouse waiting , as if that were not her whole answer , she added , 'I know he does . 
'Of course he loses ? 'Yes . 
'Everybody does lose who bets . 
'Acquit me of impertinent curiosity , my dear Mrs. Bounderby . 
I think Tom may be gradually falling into trouble , and I wish to stretch out a helping hand to him from the depths of my wicked experience . 
Shall I say again , for his sake ? Is that necessary ? She seemed to try to answer , but nothing came of it . 
Whether forgive my plainness whether any great amount of confidence is likely to have been established between himself and his most worthy father . 
'I do not , said Louisa , flushing with her own great remembrance in that wise , 'think it likely . 
'Or , between himself , and I may trust to your perfect understanding of my meaning , I am sure and his highly esteemed brother in law . 
She flushed deeper and deeper , and was burning red when she replied in a fainter voice , 'I do not think that likely , either . 
I would never complain of anything , and what I have done I do not in the least regret . 
'So spirited , too ! thought James Harthouse . 
'When I married , I found that my brother was even at that time heavily in debt . 
Heavily for him , I mean . 
Heavily enough to oblige me to sell some trinkets . 
I sold them very willingly . 
I attached no value to them . 
They , were quite worthless to me . 
Either she saw in his face that he knew , or she only feared in her conscience that he knew , that she spoke of some of her husband's gifts . 
She stopped , and reddened again . 
If he had not known it before , he would have known it then , though he had been a much duller man than he was . 
'Since then , I have given my brother , at various times , what money I could spare in short , what money I have had . 
Confiding in you at all , on the faith of the interest you profess for him , I will not do so by halves . 
Since you have been in the habit of visiting here , he has wanted in one sum as much as a hundred pounds . 
I have not been able to give it to him . 
I have felt uneasy for the consequences of his being so involved , but I have kept these secrets until now , when I trust them to your honour . 
I have held no confidence with any one , because you anticipated my reason just now . 
He was a ready man , and he saw , and seized , an opportunity here of presenting her own image to her , slightly disguised as her brother . 
Bounderby , though a graceless person , of the world worldly , I feel the utmost interest , I assure you , in what you tell me . 
I cannot possibly be hard upon your brother . 
I understand and share the wise consideration with which you regard his errors . 
With all possible respect both for Mr. Gradgrind and for Mr. Bounderby , I think I perceive that he has not been fortunate in his training . 
Mr. Bounderby's fine bluff English independence , though a most charming characteristic , does not as we have agreed invite confidence . 
'All allowance , he continued , 'must be made . 
I have one great fault to find with Tom , however , which I cannot forgive , and for which I take him heavily to account . 
Louisa turned her eyes to his face , and asked him what fault was that ? 'Perhaps , he returned , 'I have said enough . 
Perhaps it would have been better , on the whole , if no allusion to it had escaped me . 
'You alarm me , Mr. Harthouse . 
Pray let me know it . 
'To relieve you from needless apprehension and as this confidence regarding your brother , which I prize I am sure above all possible things , has been established between us I obey . 
The return he makes her , within my observation , is a very poor one . 
What she has done for him demands his constant love and gratitude , not his ill humour and caprice . 
The wood floated before her , for her eyes were suffused with tears . 
They rose from a deep well , long concealed , and her heart was filled with acute pain that found no relief in them . 
'In a word , it is to correct your brother in this , Mrs. Bounderby , that I must aspire . 
I have said enough , and more than enough . 
As he seems to be loitering in this direction , it may be as well , perhaps , to walk towards him , and throw ourselves in his way . 
He has been very silent and doleful of late . 
Perhaps , his brotherly conscience is touched if there are such things as consciences . 
Though , upon my honour , I hear of them much too often to believe in them . 
He assisted her to rise , and she took his arm , and they advanced to meet the whelp . 
He was idly beating the branches as he lounged along or he stooped viciously to rip the moss from the trees with his stick . 
He was startled when they came upon him while he was engaged in this latter pastime , and his colour changed . 
'Halloa ! he stammered 'I didn't know you were here . 
'Oh ! You mean what girl's name ? 'You have a suspicious appearance of inscribing some fair creature's on the bark , Tom . 
'Not much of that , Mr. Harthouse , unless some fair creature with a slashing fortune at her own disposal would take a fancy to me . 
Or she might be as ugly as she was rich , without any fear of losing me . 
I'd carve her name as often as she liked . 
'I am afraid you are mercenary , Tom . 
'Who is not mercenary ? Ask my sister . 
'Have you so proved it to be a failing of mine , Tom ? said Louisa , showing no other sense of his discontent and ill nature . 
'You know whether the cap fits you , Loo , returned her brother sulkily . 
'If it does , you can wear it . 
'Tom is misanthropical to day , as all bored people are now and then , said Mr. Harthouse . 
'Don't believe him , Mrs. Bounderby . 
I shall disclose some of his opinions of you , privately expressed to me , unless he relents a little . 
I may have praised her for being the contrary , and I should do it again , if I had as good reason . 
However , never mind this now it's not very interesting to you , and I am sick of the subject . 
They walked on to the house , where Louisa quitted her visitor's arm and went in . 
'Tom , my fine fellow , I want to have a word with you . 
They were just visible from her window . 
'Tom , what's the matter ? 'Oh ! Mr. Harthouse , said Tom with a groan , 'I am hard up , and bothered out of my life . 
'My good fellow , so am I. 'You ! returned Tom . 
'You are the picture of independence . 
Mr. Harthouse , I am in a horrible mess . 
You have no idea what a state I have got myself into what a state my sister might have got me out of , if she would only have done it . 
He took to biting the rosebuds now , and tearing them away from his teeth with a hand that trembled like an infirm old man's . 
After one exceedingly observant look at him , his companion relapsed into his lightest air . 
'Tom , you are inconsiderate you expect too much of your sister . 
You have had money of her , you dog , you know you have . 
'Well , Mr. Harthouse , I know I have . 
How else was I to get it ? Here's old Bounderby always boasting that at my age he lived upon twopence a month , or something of that sort . 
Here's my father drawing what he calls a line , and tying me down to it from a baby , neck and heels . 
Here's my mother who never has anything of her own , except her complaints . 
Mr. Harthouse took him persuasively by the coat . 
'But , my dear Tom , if your sister has not got it 'Not got it , Mr. Harthouse ? I don't say she has got it . 
I may have wanted more than she was likely to have got . 
But then she ought to get it . 
Then why doesn't she choose , when I tell her of what consequence it is ? But no . 
There she sits in his company like a stone , instead of making herself agreeable and getting it easily . 
I don't know what you may call this , but I call it unnatural conduct . 
But he preserved his easy attitude and nothing more solid went over the stone balustrades than the accumulated rosebuds now floating about , a little surface island . 
'My dear Tom , said Harthouse , 'let me try to be your banker . 
'For God's sake , replied Tom , suddenly , 'don't talk about bankers ! And very white he looked , in contrast with the roses . 
Albeit it was as much against the precepts of his school to wonder , as it was against the doctrines of the Gradgrind College . 
'What is the present need , Tom ? Three figures ? Out with them . 
I should have had it before to be of use to me . 
But I am very much obliged to you you're a true friend . 
'As a great kindness , Mr. Harthouse . 
'Well , returned the other , 'it may be of more use by and by . 
'Thank you , said Tom , shaking his head dismally , and chewing rosebuds . 
'I wish I had known you sooner , Mr. Harthouse . 
'I will be , Mr. Harthouse . 
'No time like the present , Tom . 
And my sister Loo shall say so . 
When Tom appeared before dinner , though his mind seemed heavy enough , his body was on the alert and he appeared before Mr. Bounderby came in . 
'I didn't mean to be cross , Loo , he said , giving her his hand , and kissing her . 
'I know you are fond of me , and you know I am fond of you . 
After this , there was a smile upon Louisa's face that day , for some one else . 
'So much the less , so much the less . 
He was not at all bored for the time , and could give his mind to it . 
He had established a confidence with her , from which her husband was excluded . 
He had established a confidence with her , that absolutely turned upon her indifference towards her husband , and the absence , now and at all times , of any congeniality between them . 
All very odd , and very satisfactory ! And yet he had not , even now , any earnest wickedness of purpose in him . 
It is the drifting icebergs setting with any current anywhere , that wreck the ships . 
When the Devil goeth about like a roaring lion , he goeth about in a shape by which few but savages and hunters are attracted . 
So James Harthouse reclined in the window , indolently smoking , and reckoning up the steps he had taken on the road by which he happened to be travelling . 
The end to which it led was before him , pretty plainly but he troubled himself with no calculations about it . 
What will be , will be . 
He was anxious to see if she had relapsed since the previous evening . 
No. He resumed where he had left off . 
There was a look of interest for him again . 
to his own satisfaction , as was to be expected under the fatiguing circumstances and came riding back at six o'clock . 
'Harthouse ! cried Mr. Bounderby . 
'Have you heard ? 'Heard what ? said Harthouse , soothing his horse , and inwardly favouring Mr. Bounderby with no good wishes . 
'Then you haven't heard ! 'I have heard you , and so has this brute . 
I have heard nothing else . 
Mr. Bounderby , red and hot , planted himself in the centre of the path before the horse's head , to explode his bombshell with more effect . 
'The Bank's robbed ! 'You don't mean it ! 'Robbed last night , sir . 
Robbed in an extraordinary manner . 
Robbed with a false key . 
'Of much ? Mr. Bounderby , in his desire to make the most of it , really seemed mortified by being obliged to reply , 'Why , no not of very much . 
But it might have been . 
'Of how much ? 'Oh ! as a sum if you stick to a sum of not more than a hundred and fifty pound , said Bounderby , with impatience . 
'But it's not the sum it's the fact . 
It's the fact of the Bank being robbed , that's the important circumstance . 
I am surprised you don't see it . 
Nevertheless , I may be allowed , I hope , to congratulate you which I do with all my soul , I assure you on your not having sustained a greater loss . 
'Thank'ee , replied Bounderby , in a short , ungracious manner . 
'But I tell you what . 
It might have been twenty thousand pound . 
'Suppose it might ! By the Lord , you may suppose so . 
By George ! said Mr. Bounderby , with sundry menacing nods and shakes of his head . 
'It might have been twice twenty . 
There's no knowing what it would have been , or wouldn't have been , as it was , but for the fellows' being disturbed . 
Louisa had come up now , and Mrs. Sparsit , and Bitzer . 
'Here's Tom Gradgrind's daughter knows pretty well what it might have been , if you don't , blustered Bounderby . 
'Dropped , sir , as if she was shot when I told her ! Never knew her do such a thing before . 
Does her credit , under the circumstances , in my opinion ! She still looked faint and pale . 
James Harthouse begged her to take his arm and as they moved on very slowly , asked her how the robbery had been committed . 
'Why , I am going to tell you , said Bounderby , irritably giving his arm to Mrs. Sparsit . 
'If you hadn't been so mighty particular about the sum , I should have begun to tell you before . 
, Mrs. Sparsit ? 'I have already had the honour 'Very well . 
And this young man , Bitzer , you saw him too on the same occasion ? Mr. Harthouse inclined his head in assent , and Bitzer knuckled his forehead . 
They live at the Bank . 
You know they live at the Bank , perhaps ? Very well . 
Yesterday afternoon , at the close of business hours , everything was put away as usual . 
In the iron room that this young fellow sleeps outside of , there was never mind how much . 
In the little safe in young Tom's closet , the safe used for petty purposes , there was a hundred and fifty odd pound . 
'A hundred and fifty four , seven , one , said Bitzer . 
'Come ! retorted Bounderby , stopping to wheel round upon him , 'let's have none of your interruptions . 
It's enough to be robbed while you're snoring because you're too comfortable , without being put right with your four seven ones . 
I didn't snore , myself , when I was your age , let me tell you . 
I hadn't victuals enough to snore . 
And I didn't four seven one . 
Not if I knew it . 
Bitzer knuckled his forehead again , in a sneaking manner , and seemed at once particularly impressed and depressed by the instance last given of Mr. Bounderby's moral abstinence . 
'A hundred and fifty odd pound , resumed Mr. Bounderby . 
'That sum of money , young Tom locked in his safe , not a very strong safe , but that's no matter now . 
Everything was left , all right . 
But on winter evenings , when he has fallen asleep at his table , I have heard him , what I should prefer to describe as partially choke . 
I have heard him on such occasions produce sounds of a nature similar to what may be sometimes heard in Dutch clocks . 
Not , said Mrs. Sparsit , with a lofty sense of giving strict evidence , 'that I would convey any imputation on his moral character . 
I have always considered Bitzer a young man of the most upright principle and to that I beg to bear my testimony . 
with a false key , which was picked up in the street near the Bank , about twelve o'clock to day . 
No alarm takes place , till this chap , Bitzer , turns out this morning , and begins to open and prepare the offices for business . 
Then , looking at Tom's safe , he sees the door ajar , and finds the lock forced , and the money gone . 
'Where is Tom , by the by ? asked Harthouse , glancing round . 
'He has been helping the police , said Bounderby , 'and stays behind at the Bank . 
I wish these fellows had tried to rob me when I was at his time of life . 
They would have been out of pocket if they had invested eighteenpence in the job I can tell 'em that . 
'Is anybody suspected ? 'Suspected ? I should think there was somebody suspected . 
Egod ! said Bounderby , relinquishing Mrs. Sparsit's arm to wipe his heated head . 
'Josiah Bounderby of Coketown is not to be plundered and nobody suspected . 
No , thank you ! Might Mr. Harthouse inquire Who was suspected ? 'Well , said Bounderby , stopping and facing about to confront them all , 'I'll tell you . 
It's not to be mentioned everywhere it's not to be mentioned anywhere in order that the scoundrels concerned may be thrown off their guard . 
So take this in confidence . 
Mr. Bounderby wiped his head again . 
Louisa faintly uttered some word of incredulity and surprise . 
'O yes ! I know ! said Bounderby , immediately catching at the sound . 
'I know ! I am used to that . 
I know all about it . 
They are the finest people in the world , these fellows are . 
They have got the gift of the gab , they have . 
They only want to have their rights explained to them , they do . 
But I tell you what . 
Show me a dissatisfied Hand , and I'll show you a man that's fit for anything bad , I don't care what it is . 
Another of the popular fictions of Coketown , which some pains had been taken to disseminate and which some people really believed . 
'But I am acquainted with these chaps , said Bounderby . 
'I can read 'em off , like books . 
Mrs. Sparsit , ma'am , I appeal to you . 
Mr. Bounderby stared with a bursting pride at Mr. Harthouse , as much as to say , 'I am the proprietor of this female , and she's worth your attention , I think . 
Then , resumed his discourse . 
'You can recall for yourself , Harthouse , what I said to him when you saw him . 
I didn't mince the matter with him . 
I am never mealy with 'em . 
Three days after that , he bolted . 
Went off , nobody knows where as my mother did in my infancy only with this difference , that he is a worse subject than my mother , if possible . 
'Suspicious , said James Harthouse , 'certainly . 
'I think so , sir , said Bounderby , with a defiant nod . 
But there are more of 'em in it . 
One never hears of these things till the mischief's done all sorts of defects are found out in the stable door after the horse is stolen there's an old woman turns up now . 
An old woman who seems to have been flying into town on a broomstick , every now and then . 
There was such a person in the room that night , and she shrunk from observation , thought Louisa . 
'This is not all of 'em , even as we already know 'em , said Bounderby , with many nods of hidden meaning . 
'But I have said enough for the present . 
You'll have the goodness to keep it quiet , and mention it to no one . 
It may take time , but we shall have 'em . 
It's policy to give 'em line enough , and there's no objection to that . 
'Of course , they will be punished with the utmost rigour of the law , as notice boards observe , replied James Harthouse , 'and serve them right . 
Fellows who go in for Banks must take the consequences . 
If there were no consequences , we should all go in for Banks . 
He had gently taken Louisa's parasol from her hand , and had put it up for her and she walked under its shade , though the sun did not shine there . 
'For the present , Loo Bounderby , said her husband , 'here's Mrs. Sparsit to look after . 
Mrs. Sparsit's nerves have been acted upon by this business , and she'll stay here a day or two . 
'Thank you very much , sir , that discreet lady observed , 'but pray do not let My comfort be a consideration . 
Anything will do for Me . 
I should think it , under existing circumstances , right to do so . 
sliding down her Roman nose . 
But Mrs. Sparsit's greatest point , first and last , was her determination to pity Mr. Bounderby . 
One idiosyncrasy for which she often apologized , she found it excessively difficult to conquer . 
She had a curious propensity to call Mrs. Bounderby 'Miss Gradgrind , and yielded to it some three or four score times in the course of the evening . 
It was a further singularity of this remarkable case , that the more she thought about it , the more impossible it appeared 'the differences , she observed , 'being such . 
That done , Bitzer was dismissed to town with instructions to recommend Tom to come home by the mail train . 
When candles were brought , Mrs. Sparsit murmured , 'Don't be low , sir . 
Pray let me see you cheerful , sir , as I used to do . 
Mr. Bounderby , upon whom these consolations had begun to produce the effect of making him , in a bull headed blundering way , sentimental , sighed like some large sea animal . 
'I cannot bear to see you so , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'Try a hand at backgammon , sir , as you used to do when I had the honour of living under your roof . 
'I haven't played backgammon , ma'am , said Mr. Bounderby , 'since that time . 
'No , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit , soothingly , 'I am aware that you have not . 
I remember that Miss Gradgrind takes no interest in the game . 
But I shall be happy , sir , if you will condescend . 
They played near a window , opening on the garden . 
It was a fine night not moonlight , but sultry and fragrant . 
Louisa and Mr. Harthouse strolled out into the garden , where their voices could be heard in the stillness , though not what they said . 
Mrs. Sparsit , from her place at the backgammon board , was constantly straining her eyes to pierce the shadows without . 
'What have you got to do with the dew , ma'am ? said Mr. Bounderby . 
'It's not myself , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit , 'I am fearful of Miss Gradgrind's taking cold . 
'She never takes cold , said Mr. Bounderby . 
'Really , sir ? said Mrs. Sparsit . 
And was affected with a cough in her throat . 
When the time drew near for retiring , Mr. Bounderby took a glass of water . 
'Oh , sir ? said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'Not your sherry warm , with lemon peel and nutmeg ? 'Why , I have got out of the habit of taking it now , ma'am , said Mr. Bounderby . 
'The more's the pity , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit 'you are losing all your good old habits . 
Cheer up , sir ! If Miss Gradgrind will permit me , I will offer to make it for you , as I have often done . 
Miss Gradgrind readily permitting Mrs. Sparsit to do anything she pleased , that considerate lady made the beverage , and handed it to Mr. Bounderby . 
'It will do you good , sir . 
It will warm your heart . 
It is the sort of thing you want , and ought to take , sir . 
And when Mr. Bounderby said , 'Your health , ma'am ! she answered with great feeling , 'Thank you , sir . 
The same to you , and happiness also . 
Long after Louisa had undressed and lain down , she watched and waited for her brother's coming home . 
That could hardly be , she knew , until an hour past midnight but in the country silence , which did anything but calm the trouble of her thoughts , time lagged wearily . 
At last , when the darkness and stillness had seemed for hours to thicken one another , she heard the bell at the gate . 
She waited yet some quarter of an hour , as she judged . 
Then she arose , put on a loose robe , and went out of her room in the dark , and up the staircase to her brother's room . 
His door being shut , she softly opened it and spoke to him , approaching his bed with a noiseless step . 
She kneeled down beside it , passed her arm over his neck , and drew his face to hers . 
She knew that he only feigned to be asleep , but she said nothing to him . 
'I don't know what you mean , Loo . 
As I am here beside you , barefoot , unclothed , undistinguishable in darkness , so must I lie through all the night of my decay , until I am dust . 
You may be certain that I will be compassionate and true to you . 
You may be certain that I will save you at whatever cost . 
O Tom , have you nothing to tell me ? Whisper very softly . 
Say only yes , and I shall understand you ! She turned her ear to his lips , but he remained doggedly silent . 
But I have nothing more to say . 
Go to bed , go to bed . 
'You are tired , she whispered presently , more in her usual way . 
'Yes , I am quite tired out . 
'You have been so hurried and disturbed to day . 
Have any fresh discoveries been made ? 'Only those you have heard of , from him . 
'Tom , have you said to any one that we made a visit to those people , and that we saw those three together ? 'No . 
Didn't you yourself particularly ask me to keep it quiet when you asked me to go there with you ? 'Yes . 
But I did not know then what was going to happen . 
How could I ? He was very quick upon her with this retort . 
If you keep it to yourself , I shall keep it to myself . 
If you disclose it , there's an end of it . 
It was too dark for either to see the other's face but each seemed very attentive , and to consider before speaking . 
'Tom , do you believe the man I gave the money to , is really implicated in this crime ? 'I don't know . 
I don't see why he shouldn't be . 
'He seemed to me an honest man . 
'Another person may seem to you dishonest , and yet not be so . 
There was a pause , for he had hesitated and stopped . 
You remember whether I took him out or not . 
I say nothing against the man he may be a very good fellow , for anything I know I hope he is . 
'Was he offended by what you said ? 'No , he took it pretty well he was civil enough . 
Where are you , Loo ? He sat up in bed and kissed her . 
'Good night , my dear , good night . 
'You have nothing more to tell me ? 'No . 
'Thank you , my dear Loo . 
I am so tired , that I am sure I wonder I don't say anything to get to sleep . 
Go to bed , go to bed . 
Kissing her again , he turned round , drew the coverlet over his head , and lay as still as if that time had come by which she had adjured him . 
She stood for some time at the bedside before she slowly moved away . 
CHAPTER IX HEARING THE LAST OF IT MRS . 
She was a most wonderful woman for prowling about the house . 
How she got from story to story was a mystery beyond solution . 
Another noticeable circumstance in Mrs. Sparsit was , that she was never hurried . 
She would shoot with consummate velocity from the roof to the hall , yet would be in full possession of her breath and dignity on the moment of her arrival there . 
Neither was she ever seen by human vision to go at a great pace . 
She took very kindly to Mr. Harthouse , and had some pleasant conversation with him soon after her arrival . 
She made him her stately curtsey in the garden , one morning before breakfast . 
'We live in a singular world , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit . 
'I have had the honour , by a coincidence of which I am proud , to have made a remark , similar in effect , though not so epigrammatically expressed . 
I recall , sir , that on that occasion you went so far as to say you were actually apprehensive of Miss Gradgrind . 
'Your memory does me more honour than my insignificance deserves . 
I availed myself of your obliging hints to correct my timidity , and it is unnecessary to add that they were perfectly accurate . 
Mrs. Sparsit's talent for in fact for anything requiring accuracy with a combination of strength of mind and Family is too habitually developed to admit of any question . 
He was almost falling asleep over this compliment it took him so long to get through , and his mind wandered so much in the course of its execution . 
'You found Miss Gradgrind I really cannot call her Mrs. Bounderby it's very absurd of me as youthful as I described her ? asked Mrs. Sparsit , sweetly . 
'You drew her portrait perfectly , said Mr. Harthouse . 
'Very engaging , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit , causing her mittens slowly to revolve over one another . 
'It used to be considered , said Mrs. Sparsit , 'that Miss Gradgrind was wanting in animation , but I confess she appears to me considerably and strikingly improved in that respect . 
Ay , and indeed here is Mr. Bounderby ! cried Mrs. Sparsit , nodding her head a great many times , as if she had been talking and thinking of no one else . 
'How do you find yourself this morning , sir ? Pray let us see you cheerful , sir . 
Mrs. Sparsit complied , and assumed her old position at table . 
This again made the excellent woman vastly sentimental . 
'There ! Stop where you are , ma'am , said Mr. Bounderby , 'stop where you are ! Mrs. Bounderby will be very glad to be relieved of the trouble , I believe . 
'Don't say that , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit , almost with severity , 'because that is very unkind to Mrs. Bounderby . 
And to be unkind is not to be you , sir . 
'You may set your mind at rest , ma'am . 
You can take it very quietly , can't you , Loo ? said Mr. Bounderby , in a blustering way to his wife . 
It is of no moment . 
'You attach too much importance to these things , ma'am . 
By George , you'll be corrupted in some of your notions here . 
You are old fashioned , ma'am . 
You are behind Tom Gradgrind's children's time . 
'What is the matter with you ? asked Louisa , coldly surprised . 
'What has given you offence ? 'Offence ! repeated Bounderby . 
'Do you suppose if there was any offence given me , I shouldn't name it , and request to have it corrected ? I am a straightforward man , I believe . 
I don't go beating about for side winds . 
I don't understand what you would have . 
'Have ? returned Mr. Bounderby . 
'You are incomprehensible this morning , said Louisa . 
'Pray take no further trouble to explain yourself . 
I am not curious to know your meaning . 
What does it matter ? Nothing more was said on this theme , and Mr. Harthouse was soon idly gay on indifferent subjects . 
But whether she ever tried or no , lay hidden in her own closed heart . 
Mr. Bounderby had not been long gone , when Bitzer appeared . 
It was a hasty note to inform Louisa that Mrs. Gradgrind lay very ill . 
She dismissed the messenger to his own devices , and rode away to her old home . 
She had seldom been there since her marriage . 
, and was still hard at it in the national dust yard . 
She had no inducements to go back , and had rarely gone . 
Neither , as she approached her old home now , did any of the best influences of old home descend upon her . 
The golden waters were not there . 
They were flowing for the fertilization of the land where grapes are gathered from thorns , and figs from thistles . 
She went , with a heavy , hardened kind of sorrow upon her , into the house and into her mother's room . 
Since the time of her leaving home , Sissy had lived with the rest of the family on equal terms . 
Sissy was at her mother's side and Jane , her sister , now ten or twelve years old , was in the room . 
There was great trouble before it could be made known to Mrs. Gradgrind that her eldest child was there . 
She reclined , propped up , from mere habit , on a couch as nearly in her old usual attitude , as anything so helpless could be kept in . 
She had positively refused to take to her bed on the ground that if she did , she would never hear the last of it . 
The poor lady was nearer Truth than she ever had been which had much to do with it . 
Louisa had sat by her for some minutes , and had spoken to her often , before she arrived at a clear understanding who it was . 
She then seemed to come to it all at once . 
'Well , my dear , said Mrs. Gradgrind , 'and I hope you are going on satisfactorily to yourself . 
It was all your father's doing . 
He set his heart upon it . 
And he ought to know . 
'I want to hear of you , mother not of myself . 
'You want to hear of me , my dear ? That's something new , I am sure , when anybody wants to hear of me . 
Not at all well , Louisa . 
'Are you in pain , dear mother ? 'I think there's a pain somewhere in the room , said Mrs. Gradgrind , 'but I couldn't positively say that I have got it . 
After this strange speech , she lay silent for some time . 
Louisa , holding her hand , could feel no pulse but kissing it , could see a slight thin thread of life in fluttering motion . 
'You very seldom see your sister , said Mrs. Gradgrind . 
I wish you would look at her . 
Sissy , bring her here . 
She was brought , and stood with her hand in her sister's . 
Louisa had observed her with her arm round Sissy's neck , and she felt the difference of this approach . 
'Do you see the likeness , Louisa ? 'Yes , mother . 
I should think her like me . 
But 'Eh ! Yes , I always say so , Mrs. Gradgrind cried , with unexpected quickness . 
I I want to speak to you , my dear . 
Sissy , my good girl , leave us alone a minute . 
She put the shadow of a hand to her lips again , and recalled her . 
'You were going to speak to me , mother . 
'Eh ? Yes , to be sure , my dear . 
You know your father is almost always away now , and therefore I must write to him about it . 
'About what , mother ? Don't be troubled . 
'I can hear you , mother . 
'You learnt a great deal , Louisa , and so did your brother . 
Ologies of all kinds from morning to night . 
'I can hear you , mother , when you have strength to go on . 
This , to keep her from floating away . 
'But there is something not an Ology at all that your father has missed , or forgotten , Louisa . 
I don't know what it is . 
I have often sat with Sissy near me , and thought about it . 
I shall never get its name now . 
I want to write to him , to find out for God's sake , what it is . 
Give me a pen , give me a pen . 
Even the power of restlessness was gone , except from the poor head , which could just turn from side to side . 
She fancied , however , that her request had been complied with , and that the pen she could not have held was in her hand . 
It matters little what figures of wonderful no meaning she began to trace upon her wrappers . 
To which Mrs. Sparsit returned , in effect , though not of the Mahomedan persuasion 'To hear is to obey . 
Now , Mrs. Sparsit was not a poetical woman but she took an idea in the nature of an allegorical fancy , into her head . 
It became the business of Mrs. Sparsit's life , to look up at her staircase , and to watch Louisa coming down . 
Sometimes slowly , sometimes quickly , sometimes several steps at one bout , sometimes stopping , never turning back . 
If she had once turned back , it might have been the death of Mrs. Sparsit in spleen and grief . 
She had been descending steadily , to the day , and on the day , when Mr. Bounderby issued the weekly invitation recorded above . 
Mrs. Sparsit was in good spirits , and inclined to be conversational . 
Under the circumstances , I didn't expect it yet . 
Rome wasn't built in a day , ma'am . 
'Very true , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit , shaking her head . 
'Nor yet in a week , ma'am . 
'No , indeed , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit , with a gentle melancholy upon her . 
'In a similar manner , ma'am , said Bounderby , 'I can wait , you know . 
If Romulus and Remus could wait , Josiah Bounderby can wait . 
They were better off in their youth than I was , however . 
They had a she wolf for a nurse I had only a she wolf for a grandmother . 
She didn't give any milk , ma'am she gave bruises . 
She was a regular Alderney at that . 
'Ah ! Mrs. Sparsit sighed and shuddered . 
'No , ma'am , continued Bounderby , 'I have not heard anything more about it . 
It's in hand , though and young Tom , who rather sticks to business at present something new for him he hadn't the schooling I had is helping . 
My injunction is , Keep it quiet , and let it seem to blow over . 
Keep it quiet , and the thieves will grow in confidence by little and little , and we shall have 'em . 
'Very sagacious indeed , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit . 
In the mean time , ma'am , I am of opinion , if you ask me my opinion , that the less she is talked about , the better . 
The same evening , Mrs. Sparsit , in her chamber window , resting from her packing operations , looked towards her great staircase and saw Louisa still descending . 
'If not quite ! said Mrs. Sparsit , straining her hawk's eyes to the utmost . 
And an infinitely dreary person he appeared to me to be . 
Lengthy and prosy in the extreme . 
'My dear Louisa as Tom says . 
Which he never did say . 
'You know no good of the fellow ? 'No , certainly . 
Well all sorts of humbugs profess morality . 
You saw and heard the case . 
Really he would have been an uncommon , instead of a common , fellow , if he had not availed himself of such an opportunity . 
Or he may have originated it altogether , if he had the cleverness . 
'I only say what is reasonable nothing worse . 
Night and day , Mrs. Sparsit kept it standing . 
And there Louisa always was , upon it . 
In the interest of seeing her , ever drawing , with no hand to stay her , nearer and nearer to the bottom of this new Giant's Staircase . 
With all her deference for Mr. Bounderby as contradistinguished from his portrait , Mrs. Sparsit had not the smallest intention of interrupting the descent . 
Eager to see it accomplished , and yet patient , she waited for the last fall , as for the ripeness and fulness of the harvest of her hopes . 
, at the figure coming down . 
CHAPTER XI LOWER AND LOWER THE figure descended the great stairs , steadily , steadily always verging , like a weight in deep water , to the black gulf at the bottom . 
Mr. Gradgrind , apprised of his wife's decease , made an expedition from London , and buried her in a business like manner . 
In the meantime , Mrs. Sparsit kept unwinking watch and ward . 
There were times when Mr. James Harthouse was not sure of her . 
So the time went on until it happened that Mr. Bounderby was called away from home by business which required his presence elsewhere , for three or four days . 
It was on a Friday that he intimated this to Mrs. Sparsit at the Bank , adding 'But you'll go down to morrow , ma'am , all the same . 
You'll go down just as if I was there . 
It will make no difference to you . 
'Pray , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit , reproachfully , 'let me beg you not to say that . 
Your absence will make a vast difference to me , sir , as I think you very well know . 
'Well , ma'am , then you must get on in my absence as well as you can , said Mr. Bounderby , not displeased . 
But you shall say no more , sir . 
I will go , upon your invitation . 
'Why , when I invite you to my house , ma'am , said Bounderby , opening his eyes , 'I should hope you want no other invitation . 
'No , indeed , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit , 'I should hope not . 
Say no more , sir . 
I would , sir , I could see you gay again . 
'What do you mean , ma'am ? blustered Bounderby . 
'Sir , rejoined Mrs. Sparsit , 'there was wont to be an elasticity in you which I sadly miss . 
Thomas , said Mrs. Sparsit , 'these plain viands being on table , I thought you might be tempted . 
'Thank'ee , Mrs. Sparsit , said the whelp . 
'How is Mr. Harthouse , Mr. Tom ? asked Mrs. Sparsit . 
'Oh , he's all right , said Tom . 
'Where may he be at present ? Mrs. Sparsit asked in a light conversational manner , after mentally devoting the whelp to the Furies for being so uncommunicative . 
'He is shooting in Yorkshire , said Tom . 
'Sent Loo a basket half as big as a church , yesterday . 
'The kind of gentleman , now , said Mrs. Sparsit , sweetly , 'whom one might wager to be a good shot ! 'Crack , said Tom . 
He had long been a down looking young fellow , but this characteristic had so increased of late , that he never raised his eyes to any face for three seconds together . 
Mrs. Sparsit consequently had ample means of watching his looks , if she were so inclined . 
Harthouse is a great favourite of mine , said Mrs. Sparsit , 'as indeed he is of most people . 
May we expect to see him again shortly , Mr. Tom ? 'Why , I expect to see him to morrow , returned the whelp . 
'Good news ! cried Mrs. Sparsit , blandly . 
'I have got an appointment with him to meet him in the evening at the station here , said Tom , 'and I am going to dine with him afterwards , I believe . 
He is not coming down to the country house for a week or so , being due somewhere else . 
At least , he says so but I shouldn't wonder if he was to stop here over Sunday , and stray that way . 
'Which reminds me ! said Mrs. Sparsit . 
Tom was in attendance , and loitered about until the expected train came in . 
It brought no Mr. Harthouse . 
Tom waited until the crowd had dispersed , and the bustle was over and then referred to a posted list of trains , and took counsel with porters . 
'This is a device to keep him out of the way , said Mrs. Sparsit , starting from the dull office window whence she had watched him last . 
'Harthouse is with his sister now ! It was the conception of an inspired moment , and she shot off with her utmost swiftness to work it out . 
Very near the bottom now . 
Upon the brink of the abyss . 
She went up to the house , keeping within the shrubbery , and went round it , peeping between the leaves at the lower windows . 
Most of them were open , as they usually were in such warm weather , but there were no lights yet , and all was silent . 
She tried the garden with no better effect . 
She thought of the wood , and stole towards it , heedless of long grass and briers of worms , snails , and slugs , and all the creeping things that be . 
Hark ! The smaller birds might have tumbled out of their nests , fascinated by the glittering of Mrs. Sparsit's eyes in the gloom , as she stopped and listened . 
Low voices close at hand . 
The appointment was a device to keep the brother away ! There they were yonder , by the felled tree . 
Bending low among the dewy grass , Mrs. Sparsit advanced closer to them . 
He was there secretly , and had not shown himself at the house . 
He had come on horseback , and must have passed through the neighbouring fields for his horse was tied to the meadow side of the fence , within a few paces . 
She urged him to go away , she commanded him to go away but she neither turned her face to him , nor raised it . 
Yet it was remarkable that she sat as still as ever the amiable woman in ambuscade had seen her sit , at any period in her life . 
Her hands rested in one another , like the hands of a statue and even her manner of speaking was not hurried . 
'My dear child , said Harthouse Mrs. Sparsit saw with delight that his arm embraced her 'will you not bear with my society for a little while ? 'Not here . 
'Where , Louisa ? 'Not here . 
'But we have so little time to make so much of , and I have come so far , and am altogether so devoted , and distracted . 
There never was a slave at once so devoted and ill used by his mistress . 
To look for your sunny welcome that has warmed me into life , and to be received in your frozen manner , is heart rending . 
'Am I to say again , that I must be left to myself here ? 'But we must meet , my dear Louisa . 
Where shall we meet ? They both started . 
The listener started , guiltily , too for she thought there was another listener among the trees . 
It was only rain , beginning to fall fast , in heavy drops . 
My dearest Louisa , I cannot go myself , or let you go , in this hard abuse of your power . 
greedy hearing , tell her how he loved her , and how she was the stake for which he ardently desired to play away all that he had in life . 
But one of them yet remained in the darkness before her and while she tracked that one she must be right . 
What to do next ? It rained now , in a sheet of water . 
She elopes ! She falls from the lowermost stair , and is swallowed up in the gulf . 
Indifferent to the rain , and moving with a quick determined step , she struck into a side path parallel with the ride . 
Mrs. Sparsit followed in the shadow of the trees , at but a short distance for it was not easy to keep a figure in view going quickly through the umbrageous darkness . 
When she stopped to close the side gate without noise , Mrs. Sparsit stopped . 
When she went on , Mrs. Sparsit went on . 
She went by the way Mrs. Sparsit had come , emerged from the green lane , crossed the stony road , and ascended the wooden steps to the railroad . 
A train for Coketown would come through presently , Mrs. Sparsit knew so she understood Coketown to be her first place of destination . 
So disguised she had no fear of being recognized when she followed up the railroad steps , and paid her money in the small office . 
Louisa sat waiting in a corner . 
Mrs. Sparsit sat waiting in another corner . 
Both listened to the thunder , which was loud , and to the rain , as it washed off the roof , and pattered on the parapets of the arches . 
Two or three lamps were rained out and blown out so , both saw the lightning to advantage as it quivered and zigzagged on the iron tracks . 
The seizure of the station with a fit of trembling , gradually deepening to a complaint of the heart , announced the train . 
Though her teeth chattered in her head from wet and cold , Mrs. Sparsit exulted hugely . 
The figure had plunged down the precipice , and she felt herself , as it were , attending on the body . 
Where will she wait for him ? And where will they go together ? Patience . 
The tremendous rain occasioned infinite confusion , when the train stopped at its destination . 
Gutters and pipes had burst , drains had overflowed , and streets were under water . 
In the first instant of alighting , Mrs. Sparsit turned her distracted eyes towards the waiting coaches , which were in great request . 
'She will get into one , she considered , 'and will be away before I can follow in another . 
At all risks of being run over , I must see the number , and hear the order given to the coachman . 
But , Mrs. Sparsit was wrong in her calculation . 
Louisa got into no coach , and was already gone . 
The black eyes kept upon the railroad carriage in which she had travelled , settled upon it a moment too late . 
The door not being opened after several minutes , Mrs. Sparsit passed it and repassed it , saw nothing , looked in , and found it empty . 
He sat writing in the room with the deadly statistical clock , proving something no doubt probably , in the main , that the Good Samaritan was a Bad Economist . 
The noise of the rain did not disturb him much but it attracted his attention sufficiently to make him raise his head sometimes , as if he were rather remonstrating with the elements . 
When it thundered very loudly , he glanced towards Coketown , having it in his mind that some of the tall chimneys might be struck by lightning . 
The thunder was rolling into distance , and the rain was pouring down like a deluge , when the door of his room opened . 
He looked round the lamp upon his table , and saw , with amazement , his eldest daughter . 
'Louisa ! 'Father , I want to speak to you . 
'What is it ? I conjure you , Louisa , tell me what is the matter . 
She dropped into a chair before him , and put her cold hand on his arm . 
'Father , you have trained me from my cradle ? 'Yes , Louisa . 
'I curse the hour in which I was born to such a destiny . 
'If it had ever been here , its ashes alone would save me from the void in which my whole life sinks . 
'What has risen to my lips now , would have risen to my lips then , if you had given me a moment's help . 
I don't reproach you , father . 
No , my poor child . 
Now , hear what I have come to say . 
He moved , to support her with his arm . 
She rising as he did so , they stood close together she , with a hand upon his shoulder , looking fixedly in his face . 
'I never knew you were unhappy , my child . 
'Father , I always knew it . 
In this strife I have almost repulsed and crushed my better angel into a demon . 
'And you so young , Louisa ! he said with pity . 
In this condition , father for I show you now , without fear or favour , the ordinary deadened state of my mind as I know it you proposed my husband to me . 
I never made a pretence to him or you that I loved him . 
I knew , and , father , you knew , and he knew , that I never did . 
I was not wholly indifferent , for I had a hope of being pleasant and useful to Tom . 
I made that wild escape into something visionary , and have slowly found out how wild it was . 
But Tom had been the subject of all the little tenderness of my life perhaps he became so because I knew so well how to pity him . 
It matters little now , except as it may dispose you to think more leniently of his errors . 
As her father held her in his arms , she put her other hand upon his other shoulder , and still looking fixedly in his face , went on . 
'Louisa ! he said , and said imploringly for he well remembered what had passed between them in their former interview . 
'I do not reproach you , father , I make no complaint . 
I am here with another object . 
'What can I do , child ? Ask me what you will . 
'I am coming to it . 
I could not find that he was worse than I. There seemed to be a near affinity between us . 
I only wondered it should be worth his while , who cared for nothing else , to care so much for me . 
'I say nothing of his plea for claiming my confidence . 
It matters very little how he gained it . 
Father , he did gain it . 
What you know of the story of my marriage , he soon knew , just as well . 
Her father's face was ashy white , and he held her in both his arms . 
'I have done no worse , I have not disgraced you . 
But if you ask me whether I have loved him , or do love him , I tell you plainly , father , that it may be so . 
'This night , my husband being away , he has been with me , declaring himself my lover . 
This minute he expects me , for I could release myself of his presence by no other means . 
I do not know that I am sorry , I do not know that I am ashamed , I do not know that I am degraded in my own esteem . 
All that I know is , your philosophy and your teaching will not save me . 
Now , father , you have brought me to this . 
She could scarcely move her head for pain and heaviness , her eyes were strained and sore , and she was very weak . 
A curious passive inattention had such possession of her , that the presence of her little sister in the room did not attract her notice for some time . 
'Who brought me here ? 'Sissy , I believe . 
'Why do you believe so ? 'Because I found her here this morning . 
She didn't come to my bedside to wake me , as she always does and I went to look for her . 
She was not in her own room either and I went looking for her all over the house , until I found her here taking care of you and cooling your head . 
Will you see father ? Sissy said I was to tell him when you woke . 
'What a beaming face you have , Jane ! said Louisa , as her young sister timidly still bent down to kiss her . 
'Have I ? I am very glad you think so . 
I am sure it must be Sissy's doing . 
The arm Louisa had begun to twine around her neck , unbent itself . 
'You can tell father if you will . 
It was Louisa turned upon her pillow , and heard no more . 
When her sister had withdrawn , she turned her head back again , and lay with her face towards the door , until it opened and her father entered . 
He had a jaded anxious look upon him , and his hand , usually steady , trembled in hers . 
He spoke in a subdued and troubled voice , very different from his usual dictatorial manner and was often at a loss for words . 
He was so much at a loss at that place , that he stopped altogether . 
The place was so difficult to get over , that he tried again . 
'It would be hopeless for me , Louisa , to endeavour to tell you how overwhelmed I have been , and still am , by what broke upon me last night . 
The ground on which I stand has ceased to be solid under my feet . 
The only support on which I leaned , and the strength of which it seemed , and still does seem , impossible to question , has given way in an instant . 
I am stunned by these discoveries . 
I have no selfish meaning in what I say but I find the shock of what broke upon me last night , to be very heavy indeed . 
She could give him no comfort herein . 
She had suffered the wreck of her whole life upon the rock . 
For I am sensible that it may not have been a part of my system to invite any confidence of that kind . 
I had proved my my system to myself , and I have rigidly administered it and I must bear the responsibility of its failures . 
I only entreat you to believe , my favourite child , that I have meant to do right . 
He said it earnestly , and to do him justice he had . 
In gauging fathomless deeps with his little mean excise rod , and in staggering over the universe with his rusty stiff legged compasses , he had meant to do great things . 
Within the limits of his short tether he had tumbled about , annihilating the flowers of existence with greater singleness of purpose than many of the blatant personages whose company he kept . 
'I am well assured of what you say , father . 
I know I have been your favourite child . 
I know you have intended to make me happy . 
I have never blamed you , and I never shall . 
He took her outstretched hand , and retained it in his . 
'My dear , I have remained all night at my table , pondering again and again on what has so painfully passed between us . 
He might have added more than all , when he saw the face now looking at him . 
He did add it in effect , perhaps , as he softly moved her scattered hair from her forehead with his hand . 
Such little actions , slight in another man , were very noticeable in him and his daughter received them as if they had been words of contrition . 
To speak unreservedly to you , I do . 
She had turned upon her pillow , and lay with her face upon her arm , so that he could not see it . 
All her wildness and passion had subsided but , though softened , she was not in tears . 
Her father was changed in nothing so much as in the respect that he would have been glad to see her in tears . 
'Some persons hold , he pursued , still hesitating , 'that there is a wisdom of the Head , and that there is a wisdom of the Heart . 
I have not supposed so but , as I have said , I mistrust myself now . 
I have supposed the head to be all sufficient . 
She made him no answer , lying before him on her bed , still half dressed , much as he had seen her lying on the floor of his room last night . 
Can it be so ? She made him no reply . 
'I am not too proud to believe it , Louisa . 
He had not been long gone , when she heard a light tread near the door , and knew that some one stood beside her . 
She did not raise her head . 
All closely imprisoned forces rend and destroy . 
The air that would be healthful to the earth , the water that would enrich it , the heat that would ripen it , tear it when caged up . 
So in her bosom even now the strongest qualities she possessed , long turned upon themselves , became a heap of obduracy , that rose against a friend . 
It was well that soft touch came upon her neck , and that she understood herself to be supposed to have fallen asleep . 
The sympathetic hand did not claim her resentment . 
Let it lie there , let it lie . 
It lay there , warming into life a crowd of gentler thoughts and she rested . 
As she softened with the quiet , and the consciousness of being so watched , some tears made their way into her eyes . 
The face touched hers , and she knew that there were tears upon it too , and she the cause of them . 
As Louisa feigned to rouse herself , and sat up , Sissy retired , so that she stood placidly near the bedside . 
'I hope I have not disturbed you . 
I have come to ask if you would let me stay with you ? 'Why should you stay with me ? My sister will miss you . 
You are everything to her . 
'Am I ? returned Sissy , shaking her head . 
'I would be something to you , if I might . 
'What ? said Louisa , almost sternly . 
'Whatever you want most , if I could be that . 
At all events , I would like to try to be as near it as I can . 
And however far off that may be , I will never tire of trying . 
Will you let me ? 'My father sent you to ask me . 
'No indeed , replied Sissy . 
'He told me that I might come in now , but he sent me away from the room this morning or at least She hesitated and stopped . 
'At least , what ? said Louisa , with her searching eyes upon her . 
'I thought it best myself that I should be sent away , for I felt very uncertain whether you would like to find me here . 
'Have I always hated you so much ? 'I hope not , for I have always loved you , and have always wished that you should know it . 
But you changed to me a little , shortly before you left home . 
Not that I wondered at it . 
Her colour rose as she said it modestly and hurriedly . 
Louisa understood the loving pretence , and her heart smote her . 
'May I try ? said Sissy , emboldened to raise her hand to the neck that was insensibly drooping towards her . 
Louisa raised the hand that it might clasp her neck and join its fellow there . 
She fell upon her knees , and clinging to this stroller's child looked up at her almost with veneration . 
'Lay it here , my dear . 
CHAPTER II VERY RIDICULOUS MR . 
He several times spoke with an emphasis , similar to the vulgar manner . 
He went in and went out in an unaccountable way , like a man without an object . 
He rode like a highwayman . 
In a word , he was so horribly bored by existing circumstances , that he forgot to go in for boredom in the manner prescribed by the authorities . 
The dawn coming , the morning coming , and the day coming , and neither message nor letter coming with either , he went down to the country house . 
There , the report was , Mr. Bounderby away , and Mrs. Bounderby in town . 
Left for town suddenly last evening . 
Not even known to be gone until receipt of message , importing that her return was not to be expected for the present . 
In these circumstances he had nothing for it but to follow her to town . 
He went to the house in town . 
He looked in at the Bank . 
Mr. Bounderby away and Mrs. Sparsit away . 
'She was off somewhere at daybreak this morning . 
She's always full of mystery I hate her . 
So I do that white chap he's always got his blinking eyes upon a fellow . 
'Where were you last night , Tom ? 'Where was I last night ! said Tom . 
'Come ! I like that . 
I was waiting for you , Mr. Harthouse , till it came down as I never saw it come down before . 
Where was I too ! Where were you , you mean . 
'I was prevented from coming detained . 
'Two of us were detained . 
I was detained looking for you , till I lost every train but the mail . 
It would have been a pleasant job to go down by that on such a night , and have to walk home through a pond . 
I was obliged to sleep in town after all . 
'Where ? 'Where ? Why , in my own bed at Bounderby's . 
The hotel where he was known to live when condemned to that region of blackness , was the stake to which he was tied . 
As to all the rest What will be , will be . 
'Bounderby has the advantage in point of weight and if anything of a British nature is to come off between us , it may be as well to be in training . 
However , he took affairs as coolly as it was in human nature to do , and entertained himself with the facetious idea of the training more than once . 
'It wouldn't be bad , he yawned at one time , 'to give the waiter five shillings , and throw him . 
At another time it occurred to him , 'Or a fellow of about thirteen or fourteen stone might be hired by the hour . 
But these jests did not tell materially on the afternoon , or his suspense and , sooth to say , they both lagged fearfully . 
, he seized this crisis as the opportunity for ordering candles and a newspaper . 
You're wanted , sir , if you please . 
Young lady outside , sir , wishes to see you . 
'Outside ? Where ? 'Outside this door , sir . 
Giving the waiter to the personage before mentioned , as a block head duly qualified for that consignment , Mr. Harthouse hurried into the gallery . 
A young woman whom he had never seen stood there . 
Plainly dressed , very quiet , very pretty . 
Her face was innocent and youthful , and its expression remarkably pleasant . 
'I speak to Mr. Harthouse ? she said , when they were alone . 
He added in his mind , 'And you speak to him with the most confiding eyes I ever saw , and the most earnest voice I ever heard . 
I will rely upon it , if you will tell me I may so far trust 'You may , I assure you . 
'I am young , as you see I am alone , as you see . 
In coming to you , sir , I have no advice or encouragement beyond my own hope . 
He thought , 'But that is very strong , as he followed the momentary upward glance of her eyes . 
He thought besides , 'This is a very odd beginning . 
I don't see where we are going . 
, he returned , 'on a lady's account . 
The hopes I have been encouraged to form that you come from that lady , do not deceive me , I trust . 
'I left her within an hour . 
'At ! 'At her father's . 
Mr. Harthouse's face lengthened in spite of his coolness , and his perplexity increased . 
'Then I certainly , he thought , 'do not see where we are going . 
'She hurried there last night . 
She arrived there in great agitation , and was insensible all through the night . 
I live at her father's , and was with her . 
You may be sure , sir , you will never see her again as long as you live . 
At last he said 'So startling an announcement , so confidently made , and by such lips , is really disconcerting in the last degree . 
'The drowning man catches at the straw . 
'There is not the least hope . 
'Must believe ? But if I can't or if I should , by infirmity of nature , be obstinate and won't 'It is still true . 
James Harthouse looked at her with an incredulous smile upon his lips but her mind looked over and beyond him , and the smile was quite thrown away . 
He bit his lip , and took a little time for consideration . 
But you said you had no commission from her ? 'I have only the commission of my love for her , and her love for me . 
I have no other trust , than that I have been with her since she came home , and that she has given me her confidence . 
I have no further trust , than that I know something of her character and her marriage . 
'I am not a moral sort of fellow , he said , 'and I never make any pretensions to the character of a moral sort of fellow . 
I am as immoral as need be . 
Whereas I find , said Mr. James Harthouse , in conclusion , 'that it is really in several volumes . 
Though he said all this in his frivolous way , the way seemed , for that once , a conscious polishing of but an ugly surface . 
He was silent for a moment and then proceeded with a more self possessed air , though with traces of vexation and disappointment that would not be polished out . 
of my seeing the lady no more . 
Sissy's face sufficiently showed that her appeal to him was not finished . 
'You spoke , he resumed , as she raised her eyes to him again , 'of your first object . 
I may assume that there is a second to be mentioned ? 'Yes . 
'Will you oblige me by confiding it ? 'Mr . 
I am quite sure that you can mitigate in no other way the wrong and harm you have done . 
I am quite sure that it is the only compensation you have left it in your power to make . 
I do not say that it is much , or that it is enough but it is something , and it is necessary . 
But he could as easily have changed a clear sky by looking at it in surprise , as affect her . 
It had no effect on Sissy , fact or no fact . 
'Besides which , said Mr. Harthouse , taking a turn or two across the room , dubiously , 'it's so alarmingly absurd . 
It would make a man so ridiculous , after going in for these fellows , to back out in such an incomprehensible way . 
'I am quite sure , repeated Sissy , 'that it is the only reparation in your power , sir . 
I am quite sure , or I would not have come here . 
He glanced at her face , and walked about again . 
'Upon my soul , I don't know what to say . 
So immensely absurd ! It fell to his lot , now , to stipulate for secrecy . 
'I will trust to you , sir , returned Sissy , 'and you will trust to me . 
His leaning against the chimney piece reminded him of the night with the whelp . 
It was the self same chimney piece , and somehow he felt as if he were the whelp to night . 
He could make no way at all . 
'But I see no way out of it . 
What will be , will be . 
This will be , I suppose . 
I must take off myself , I imagine in short , I engage to do it . 
She was not surprised by the result , but she was happy in it , and her face beamed brightly . 
'You will permit me to say , continued Mr. James Harthouse , 'that I doubt if any other ambassador , or ambassadress , could have addressed me with the same success . 
I must not only regard myself as being in a very ridiculous position , but as being vanquished at all points . 
Will you allow me the privilege of remembering my enemy's name ? 'My name ? said the ambassadress . 
'The only name I could possibly care to know , to night . 
'Pardon my curiosity at parting . 
Related to the family ? 'I am only a poor girl , returned Sissy . 
'I was separated from my father he was only a stroller and taken pity on by Mr. Gradgrind . 
I have lived in the house ever since . 
'It wanted this to complete the defeat , said Mr. James Harthouse , sinking , with a resigned air , on the sofa , after standing transfixed a little while . 
'The defeat may now be considered perfectly accomplished . 
Only a poor girl only a stroller only James Harthouse made nothing of only James Harthouse a Great Pyramid of failure . 
The Great Pyramid put it into his head to go up the Nile . 
to his brother Dear Jack , All up at Coketown . 
Bored out of the place , and going in for camels . 
Affectionately , JEM , He rang the bell . 
'Gone to bed , sir . 
'Tell him to get up , and pack up . 
He wrote two more notes . 
One , to Mr. Bounderby , announcing his retirement from that part of the country , and showing where he would be found for the next fortnight . 
The other , similar in effect , to Mr. Gradgrind . 
But it was not so , at all . 
James's Street , exploded the combustibles with which she was charged , and blew up . 
Having executed her mission with infinite relish , this high minded woman then fainted away on Mr. Bounderby's coat collar . 
Mr. Bounderby's first procedure was to shake Mrs. Sparsit off , and leave her to progress as she might through various stages of suffering on the floor . 
He next had recourse to the administration of potent restoratives , such as screwing the patient's thumbs , smiting her hands , abundantly watering her face , and inserting salt in her mouth . 
, he hustled her into a fast train without offering any other refreshment , and carried her back to Coketown more dead than alive . 
'You have missed my letter ! exclaimed Mr. Gradgrind , surprised by the apparition . 
'Missed your letter , sir ! bawled Bounderby . 
'The present time is no time for letters . 
No man shall talk to Josiah Bounderby of Coketown about letters , with his mind in the state it's in now . 
'Bounderby , said Mr. Gradgrind , in a tone of temperate remonstrance , 'I speak of a very special letter I have written to you , in reference to Louisa . 
'If you can't get it out , ma'am , said Bounderby , 'leave me to get it out . 
This is not a time for a lady , however highly connected , to be totally inaudible , and seemingly swallowing marbles . 
'Indeed ! said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'Ah ! Indeed ! cried Bounderby . 
'And in that conversation 'It is not necessary to repeat its tenor , Bounderby . 
'Here ? 'My dear Bounderby , let me beg you to restrain these loud out breaks , on all accounts . 
I myself had not been at home many hours , when I received her here , in this room . 
She hurried by the train to town , she ran from town to this house , through a raging storm , and presented herself before me in a state of distraction . 
Of course , she has remained here ever since . 
Let me entreat you , for your own sake and for hers , to be more quiet . 
With these words , Mr. Bounderby extended his right hand to the weeping lady , and escorted her to the conveyance in question , shedding many plaintive sneezes by the way . 
'Now , as you showed me in your face , Tom Gradgrind , that you wanted to speak to me , he resumed , 'here I am . 
You have your opinion , I dare say and I have mine , I know . 
If you mean to say anything to me to night , that goes against this candid remark , you had better let it alone . 
Mr. Gradgrind , it will be observed , being much softened , Mr. Bounderby took particular pains to harden himself at all points . 
It was his amiable nature . 
'My dear Bounderby , Mr. Gradgrind began in reply . 
'Now , you'll excuse me , said Bounderby , 'but I don't want to be too dear . 
That , to start with . 
When I begin to be dear to a man , I generally find that his intention is to come over me . 
I am not speaking to you politely but , as you are aware , I am not polite . 
If you like politeness , you know where to get it . 
You have your gentleman friends , you know , and they'll serve you with as much of the article as you want . 
I don't keep it myself . 
'Bounderby , urged Mr. Gradgrind , 'we are all liable to mistakes 'I thought you couldn't make 'em , interrupted Bounderby . 
But , I say we are all liable to mistakes and I should feel sensible of your delicacy , and grateful for it , if you would spare me these references to Harthouse . 
I shall not associate him in our conversation with your intimacy and encouragement pray do not persist in connecting him with mine . 
'I never mentioned his name ! said Bounderby . 
'Well , well ! returned Mr. Gradgrind , with a patient , even a submissive , air . 
And he sat for a little while pondering . 
'Bounderby , I see reason to doubt whether we have ever quite understood Louisa . 
'Who do you mean by We ? 'Let me say I , then , he returned , in answer to the coarsely blurted question 'I doubt whether I have understood Louisa . 
I doubt whether I have been quite right in the manner of her education . 
'There you hit it , returned Bounderby . 
'There I agree with you . 
That's what I call education . 
'I don't see it at all , sir , returned the obstinate Bounderby . 
'Well , sighed Mr. Gradgrind , 'we will not enter into the question . 
I assure you I have no desire to be controversial . 
I seek to repair what is amiss , if I possibly can and I hope you will assist me in a good spirit , Bounderby , for I have been very much distressed . 
'I don't understand you , yet , said Bounderby , with determined obstinacy , 'and therefore I won't make any promises . 
The enlightenment has been painfully forced upon me , and the discovery is not mine . 
Louisa , said Mr. Gradgrind , shading his face with his hand , 'has always been my favourite child . 
The blustrous Bounderby crimsoned and swelled to such an extent on hearing these words , that he seemed to be , and probably was , on the brink of a fit . 
, who understands her , and in whom she trusts . 
'I fear there is at present a general incompatibility between Louisa , and and and almost all the relations in which I have placed her , was her father's sorrowful reply . 
'You have said your say I am going to say mine . 
I am a Coketown man . 
I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown . 
I know 'em all pretty well . 
When a man tells me anything about imaginative qualities , I always tell that man , whoever he is , that I know what he means . 
He means turtle soup and venison , with a gold spoon , and that he wants to be set up with a coach and six . 
That's what your daughter wants . 
Since you are of opinion that she ought to have what she wants , I recommend you to provide it for her . 
Because , Tom Gradgrind , she will never have it from me . 
'Bounderby , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'I hoped , after my entreaty , you would have taken a different tone . 
'Just wait a bit , retorted Bounderby 'you have said your say , I believe . 
I heard you out hear me out , if you please . 
Now , there's an incompatibility of some sort or another , I am given to understand by you , between your daughter and me . 
That's plain speaking , I hope . 
'Bounderby , urged Mr. Gradgrind , 'this is unreasonable . 
'Is it ? said Bounderby . 
'I am glad to hear you say so . 
Because when Tom Gradgrind , with his new lights , tells me that what I say is unreasonable , I am convinced at once it must be devilish sensible . 
With your permission I am going on . 
You know my origin and you know that for a good many years of my life I didn't want a shoeing horn , in consequence of not having a shoe . 
Yet you may believe or not , as you think proper , that there are ladies born ladies belonging to families Families ! who next to worship the ground I walk on . 
He discharged this like a Rocket , at his father in law's head . 
'Whereas your daughter , proceeded Bounderby , 'is far from being a born lady . 
That you know , yourself . 
Why do I say this ? 'Not , I fear , observed Mr. Gradgrind , in a low voice , 'to spare me . 
'Hear me out , said Bounderby , 'and refrain from cutting in till your turn comes round . 
I say this , because highly connected females have been astonished to see the way in which your daughter has conducted herself , and to witness her insensibility . 
They have wondered how I have suffered it . 
And I wonder myself now , and I won't suffer it . 
'Bounderby , returned Mr. Gradgrind , rising , 'the less we say to night the better , I think . 
'On the contrary , Tom Gradgrind , the more we say to night , the better , I think . 
That is , the consideration checked him , 'till I have said all I mean to say , and then I don't care how soon we stop . 
I come to a question that may shorten the business . 
'To a softening down of your ideas of the incompatibility ? said Bounderby . 
'If you put it in those terms . 
'What made you think of this ? said Bounderby . 
'I have already said , I fear Louisa has not been understood . 
'Come ! said he , 'I don't want to be told about that . 
I know what I took her for , as well as you do . 
Never you mind what I took her for that's my look out . 
'I think differently , blustered Bounderby . 
'I am going to finish this business according to my own opinions . 
Now , I don't want to make a quarrel of it with you , Tom Gradgrind . 
To tell you the truth , I don't think it would be worthy of my reputation to quarrel on such a subject . 
As to your gentleman friend , he may take himself off , wherever he likes best . 
What I shall say to people in general , of the incompatibility that led to my so laying down the law , will be this . 
I am Josiah Bounderby , and I had my bringing up she's the daughter of Tom Gradgrind , and she had her bringing up and the two horses wouldn't pull together . 
'Let me seriously entreat you to reconsider this , Bounderby , urged Mr. Gradgrind , 'before you commit yourself to such a decision . 
'I always come to a decision , said Bounderby , tossing his hat on 'and whatever I do , I do at once . 
I have given you my decision , and I have got no more to say . 
Good night ! So Mr. Bounderby went home to his town house to bed . 
CHAPTER IV LOST THE robbery at the Bank had not languished before , and did not cease to occupy a front place in the attention of the principal of that establishment now . 
They were at fault too , and off the scent . 
Although they had been so quiet since the first outbreak of the matter , that most people really did suppose it to have been abandoned as hopeless , nothing new occurred . 
No implicated man or woman took untimely courage , or made a self betraying step . 
More remarkable yet , Stephen Blackpool could not be heard of , and the mysterious old woman remained a mystery . 
Things having come to this pass , and showing no latent signs of stirring beyond it , the upshot of Mr. Bounderby's investigations was , that he resolved to hazard a bold burst . 
Not the least eager of the eyes assembled , were the eyes of those who could not read . 
Slackbridge , the delegate , had to address his audience too that night and Slackbridge had obtained a clean bill from the printer , and had brought it in his pocket . 
These men and women were yet in the streets , passing quietly to their homes , when Sissy , who had been called away from Louisa some minutes before , returned . 
'Who is it ? asked Louisa . 
'What do they want , Sissy dear ? 'They want to see you . 
Rachael has been crying , and seems angry . 
'Father , said Louisa , for he was present , 'I cannot refuse to see them , for a reason that will explain itself . 
Shall they come in here ? As he answered in the affirmative , Sissy went away to bring them . 
She reappeared with them directly . 
Tom was last and remained standing in the obscurest part of the room , near the door . 
Bounderby , said her husband , entering with a cool nod , 'I don't disturb you , I hope . 
This is an unseasonable hour , but here is a young woman who has been making statements which render my visit necessary . 
'You have seen me once before , young lady , said Rachael , standing in front of Louisa . 
'You have seen me , young lady , repeated Rachael , as she did not answer , 'once before . 
He was there too and an old woman who did not speak , and whom I could scarcely see , stood in a dark corner . 
My brother was with me . 
'Why couldn't you say so , young Tom ? demanded Bounderby . 
'I promised my sister I wouldn't . 
'I felt compassion for him , said Louisa , her colour deepening , 'and I wished to know what he was going to do , and wished to offer him assistance . 
'Thank you , ma'am , said Bounderby . 
'Did you offer him , asked Rachael , 'a bank note ? 'Yes but he refused it , and would only take two pounds in gold . 
Rachael cast her eyes towards Mr. Bounderby again . 
'Oh , certainly ! said Bounderby . 
'If you put the question whether your ridiculous and improbable account was true or not , I am bound to say it's confirmed . 
Stephen ! The honestest lad , the truest lad , the best ! Her indignation failed her , and she broke off sobbing . 
'I am very , very sorry , said Louisa . 
I am not sure why you may ha' come that night . 
I can't tell but what you may ha' come wi' some aim of your own , not mindin to what trouble you brought such as the poor lad . 
She said nothing in reply and her low weeping was the only sound that was heard , until Mr. Bounderby spoke . 
'Come ! said he , 'you know what you have engaged to do . 
You had better give your mind to that not this . 
''Deed , I am loath , returned Rachael , drying her eyes , 'that any here should see me like this but I won't be seen so again . 
'So far , that's true enough , assented Mr. Bounderby , with his hands in his pockets and his hat on . 
'But I have known you people before to day , you'll observe , and I know you never die for want of talking . 
Now , I recommend you not so much to mind talking just now , as doing . 
'Then , I'll tell you something . 
The post office hasn't been forgotten either . 
What I'll tell you is , that no letter to Stephen Blackpool has ever got into it . 
Therefore , what has become of yours , I leave you to guess . 
Perhaps you're mistaken , and never wrote any . 
It's considered a little suspicious in Courts of Justice , I believe , when an Innocent happens to have many names . 
'You need have no fear of that , young lady . 
He shall come back of his own accord to clear himself , and put all those that have injured his good character , and he not here for its defence , to shame . 
'Notwithstanding which , added Mr. Bounderby , 'if he can be laid hold of any sooner , he shall have an earlier opportunity of clearing himself . 
I wish you good night all ! I must be off to look a little further into this . 
Tom came out of his corner when Mr. Bounderby moved , moved with him , kept close to him , and went away with him . 
The only parting salutation of which he delivered himself was a sulky 'Good night , father ! With a brief speech , and a scowl at his sister , he left the house . 
Since his sheet anchor had come home , Mr. Gradgrind had been sparing of speech . 
He still sat silent , when Louisa mildly said 'Rachael , you will not distrust me one day , when you know me better . 
I ask your pardon for having done you an injury . 
I don't think what I said now . 
Yet I might come to think it again , wi' the poor lad so wronged . 
'Yes , dear , she returned 'but I can't guess what can have ever taken him there . 
He never used to go there . 
It was never in his way . 
His way was the same as mine , and not near it . 
Sissy had already been at her side asking her where she lived , and whether she might come to morrow night , to inquire if there were news of him . 
'I doubt , said Rachael , 'if he can be here till next day . 
'Then I will come next night too , said Sissy . 
Do you believe him to be implicated ? 'I think I have believed it , father , though with great difficulty . 
I do not believe it now . 
'That is to say , you once persuaded yourself to believe it , from knowing him to be suspected . 
His appearance and manner are they so honest ? 'Very honest . 
Her eyes by accident met Sissy's at the moment . 
Sissy flushed and started , and Louisa put her finger on her lip . 
Next night , when Sissy returned home and told Louisa that Stephen was not come , she told it in a whisper . 
Next night again , when she came home with the same account , and added that he had not been heard of , she spoke in the same low frightened tone . 
The two appointed days ran out , three days and nights ran out , and Stephen Blackpool was not come , and remained unheard of . 
Messengers were sent to that place , and the whole town looked for Stephen to be brought in next day . 
During this whole time the whelp moved about with Mr. Bounderby like his shadow , assisting in all the proceedings . 
He was greatly excited , horribly fevered , bit his nails down to the quick , spoke in a hard rattling voice , and with lips that were black and burnt up . 
Rachael's letter had gone , Rachael's letter had been delivered . 
Stephen Blackpool had decamped in that same hour and no soul knew more of him . 
The only doubt in Coketown was , whether Rachael had written in good faith , believing that he really would come back , or warning him to fly . 
On this point opinion was divided . 
Six days , seven days , far on into another week . 
The wretched whelp plucked up a ghastly courage , and began to grow defiant . 
CHAPTER V FOUND DAY and night again , day and night again . 
Where was the man , and why did he not come back ? Every night , Sissy went to Rachael's lodging , and sat with her in her small neat room . 
All day , Rachael toiled as such people must toil , whatever their anxieties . 
Day and night again , day and night again . 
Even Stephen Blackpool's disappearance was falling into the general way , and becoming as monotonous a wonder as any piece of machinery in Coketown . 
'I misdoubt , said Rachael , 'if there is as many as twenty left in all this place , who have any trust in the poor dear lad now . 
She said it to Sissy , as they sat in her lodging , lighted only by the lamp at the street corner . 
I have never once left trusting Stephen Blackpool ! 'We all believe , up at the Lodge , Rachael , that he will be freed from suspicion , sooner or later . 
And yet I 'You don't mistrust her now , Rachael ? 'Now that you have brought us more together , no . 
'I can't at all times keep out of my mind , mistrustings of some one . 
I can't think who 'tis , I can't think how or why it may be done , but I mistrust that some one has put Stephen out of the way . 
'That is a dreadful thought , said Sissy , turning pale . 
'It is a dreadful thought to think he may be murdered . 
Sissy shuddered , and turned paler yet . 
I must get the better of this before bed time . 
I'll walk home wi' you . 
'But he is in none of them . 
He has been sought for in all , and he's not there . 
'True , was Sissy's reluctant admission . 
'He'd walk the journey in two days . 
If he was footsore and couldn't walk , I sent him , in the letter he got , the money to ride , lest he should have none of his own to spare . 
'Let us hope that to morrow will bring something better , Rachael . 
Come into the air ! Her gentle hand adjusted Rachael's shawl upon her shining black hair in the usual manner of her wearing it , and they went out . 
'You're not so hurried now , Rachael , and your hand is cooler . 
'I get better , dear , if I can only walk , and breathe a little fresh . 
'Times when I can't , I turn weak and confused . 
'But you must not begin to fail , Rachael , for you may be wanted at any time to stand by Stephen . 
If no news comes to morrow , let us walk in the country on Sunday morning , and strengthen you for another week . 
Will you go ? 'Yes , dear . 
They were by this time in the street where Mr. Bounderby's house stood . 
The way to Sissy's destination led them past the door , and they were going straight towards it . 
Some train had newly arrived in Coketown , which had put a number of vehicles in motion , and scattered a considerable bustle about the town . 
'It's a coincidence , exclaimed Mrs. Sparsit , as she was released by the coachman . 
Whom Mrs. Sparsit incontinently collared . 
'Leave her alone , everybody ! cried Mrs. Sparsit , with great energy . 
Come in , ma'am ! then said Mrs. Sparsit , reversing her former word of command . 
'Fetch Mr. Bounderby down ! cried Mrs. Sparsit . 
'Rachael , young woman you know who this is ? 'It's Mrs. Pegler , said Rachael . 
'I should think it is ! cried Mrs. Sparsit , exulting . 
Stand away , everybody ! Here old Mrs. Pegler , muffling herself up , and shrinking from observation , whispered a word of entreaty . 
'Don't tell me , said Mrs. Sparsit , aloud . 
'I have told you twenty times , coming along , that I will not leave you till I have handed you over to him myself . 
Mr. Bounderby now appeared , accompanied by Mr. Gradgrind and the whelp , with whom he had been holding conference up stairs . 
Mr. Bounderby looked more astonished than hospitable , at sight of this uninvited party in his dining room . 
'Why , what's the matter now ! said he . 
Sparsit , ma'am ? 'Sir , explained that worthy woman , 'I trust it is my good fortune to produce a person you have much desired to find . 
Here Mrs. Sparsit ceased for Mr. Bounderby's visage exhibited an extraordinary combination of all possible colours and expressions of discomfiture , as old Mrs. Pegler was disclosed to his view . 
'Why , what do you mean by this ? was his highly unexpected demand , in great warmth . 
'I ask you , what do you mean by this , Mrs. Sparsit , ma'am ? 'Sir ! exclaimed Mrs. Sparsit , faintly . 
'Why don't you mind your own business , ma'am ? roared Bounderby . 
'How dare you go and poke your officious nose into my family affairs ? This allusion to her favourite feature overpowered Mrs. Sparsit . 
'My dear Josiah ! cried Mrs. Pegler , trembling . 
'My darling boy ! I am not to blame . 
It's not my fault , Josiah . 
I told this lady over and over again , that I knew she was doing what would not be agreeable to you , but she would do it . 
Indeed , indeed , it is not my fault ! My dear , noble , stately boy ! I have always lived quiet , and secret , Josiah , my dear . 
I have never broken the condition once . 
I have never said I was your mother . 
'Me unnatural ! cried poor old Mrs. Pegler . 
'Me inhuman ! To my dear boy ? 'Dear ! repeated Mr. Gradgrind . 
'Yes dear in his self made prosperity , madam , I dare say . 
Not very dear , however , when you deserted him in his infancy , and left him to the brutality of a drunken grandmother . 
'I deserted my Josiah ! cried Mrs. Pegler , clasping her hands . 
'No such a thing , sir . 
And a steady lad he was , and a kind master he had to lend him a hand , and well he worked his own way forward to be rich and thriving . 
And I never have , except with looking at him once a year , when he has never knowed it . 
And I never stood here before , nor never wanted to stand here when my dear son said no . 
And I shouldn't be here now , if it hadn't been for being brought here . 
'I don't exactly know , said Mr. Bounderby , 'how I come to be favoured with the attendance of the present company , but I don't inquire . 
When they're quite satisfied , perhaps they'll be so good as to disperse whether they're satisfied or not , perhaps they'll be so good as to disperse . 
I'm not bound to deliver a lecture on my family affairs , I have not undertaken to do it , and I'm not a going to do it . 
Therefore those who expect any explanation whatever upon that branch of the subject , will be disappointed particularly Tom Gradgrind , and he can't know it too soon . 
In reference to the Bank robbery , there has been a mistake made , concerning my mother . 
If there hadn't been over officiousness it wouldn't have been made , and I hate over officiousness at all times , whether or no . 
to tack himself on to a pedigree , he cut a most ridiculous figure . 
Rachael and Sissy , leaving Mrs. Pegler to occupy a bed at her son's for that night , walked together to the gate of Stone Lodge and there parted . 
As to the whelp throughout this scene as on all other late occasions , he had stuck close to Bounderby . 
He seemed to feel that as long as Bounderby could make no discovery without his knowledge , he was so far safe . 
There was one dim unformed fear lingering about his sister's mind , to which she never gave utterance , which surrounded the graceless and ungrateful boy with a dreadful mystery . 
And still the forced spirit which the whelp had plucked up , throve with him . 
If Stephen Blackpool was not the thief , let him show himself . 
Why didn't he ? Another night . 
Sissy and Rachael helped themselves out of the smoke by the usual means , and were put down at a station about midway between the town and Mr. Bounderby's retreat . 
, and there were pleasant scents in the air , and all was over arched by a bright blue sky . 
Under their feet , the grass was fresh beautiful shadows of branches flickered upon it , and speckled it hedgerows were luxuriant everything was at peace . 
They followed paths and tracks , however slight . 
The sun was high when they sat down to rest . 
They had seen no one , near or distant , for a long time and the solitude remained unbroken . 
'It is so still here , Rachael , and the way is so untrodden , that I think we must be the first who have been here all the summer . 
As Sissy said it , her eyes were attracted by another of those rotten fragments of fence upon the ground . 
She got up to look at it . 
'And yet I don't know . 
This has not been broken very long . 
The wood is quite fresh where it gave way . 
O Rachael ! She ran back , and caught her round the neck . 
Rachael had already started up . 
'What is the matter ? 'I don't know . 
There is a hat lying in the grass . 
Rachael took it up , shaking from head to foot . 
She broke into a passion of tears and lamentations Stephen Blackpool was written in his own hand on the inside . 
'O the poor lad , the poor lad ! He has been made away with . 
He is lying murdered here ! 'Is there has the hat any blood upon it ? Sissy faltered . 
They were afraid to look but they did examine it , and found no mark of violence , inside or out . 
It had been lying there some days , for rain and dew had stained it , and the mark of its shape was on the grass where it had fallen . 
They looked fearfully about them , without moving , but could see nothing more . 
'Rachael , Sissy whispered , 'I will go on a little by myself . 
She had unclasped her hand , and was in the act of stepping forward , when Rachael caught her in both arms with a scream that resounded over the wide landscape . 
Before them , at their very feet , was the brink of a black ragged chasm hidden by the thick grass . 
They sprang back , and fell upon their knees , each hiding her face upon the other's neck . 
It was impossible to hush her and it was deadly necessary to hold her , or she would have flung herself down the shaft . 
'Rachael , Stephen may be living . 
She shuddered to approach the pit but she crept towards it on her hands and knees , and called to him as loud as she could call . 
She listened , but no sound replied . 
She called again and listened still no answering sound . 
She did this , twenty , thirty times . 
She took a little clod of earth from the broken ground where he had stumbled , and threw it in . 
She could not hear it fall . 
'Rachael , we must lose not a moment . 
We must go in different directions , seeking aid . 
You shall go by the way we have come , and I will go forward by the path . 
Tell any one you see , and every one what has happened . 
Think of Stephen , think of Stephen ! She knew by Rachael's face that she might trust her now . 
Run , Sissy , run , in Heaven's name ! Don't stop for breath . 
With these two men she ran to another half a mile further , and with that one to another , while they ran elsewhere . 
Then a horse was found and she got another man to ride for life or death to the railroad , and send a message to Louisa , which she wrote and gave him . 
It seemed now hours and hours since she had left the lost man lying in the grave where he had been buried alive . 
When they came to the Old Hell Shaft , they found it as lonely as she had left it . 
But the wind blew idly over it , and no sound arose to the surface , and they sat upon the grass , waiting and waiting . 
After they had waited some time , straggling people who had heard of the accident began to come up then the real help of implements began to arrive . 
In the midst of this , Rachael returned and with her party there was a surgeon , who brought some wine and medicines . 
But , the expectation among the people that the man would be found alive was very slight indeed . 
Difficulties had arisen in the construction of this machine , simple as it was requisites had been found wanting , and messages had had to go and return . 
The candle was brought up again , feebly burning , and then some water was cast in . 
The signal was given and the windlass stopped , with abundant rope to spare . 
He had not well done speaking , when the windlass was reversed and worked again . 
Practised eyes knew that it did not go as heavily as it would if both workmen had been coming up , and that only one was returning . 
The rope came in tight and strained and ring after ring was coiled upon the barrel of the windlass , and all eyes were fastened on the pit . 
The sobered man was brought up and leaped out briskly on the grass . 
There was an universal cry of 'Alive or dead ? and then a deep , profound hush . 
When he said 'Alive ! a great shout arose and many eyes had tears in them . 
'But he's hurt very bad , he added , as soon as he could make himself heard again . 
'Where's doctor ? He's hurt so very bad , sir , that we donno how to get him up . 
They all consulted together , and looked anxiously at the surgeon , as he asked some questions , and shook his head on receiving the replies . 
The sun was setting now and the red light in the evening sky touched every face there , and caused it to be distinctly seen in all its rapt suspense . 
The consultation ended in the men returning to the windlass , and the pitman going down again , carrying the wine and some other small matters with him . 
Then the other man came up . 
It was dark now , and torches were kindled . 
, and had likewise scooped up a little water in it now and then . 
When all was ready , this man , still taking his last hurried charges from his comrades and the surgeon after the windlass had begun to lower him , disappeared into the pit . 
The rope went out as before , the signal was made as before , and the windlass stopped . 
No man removed his hand from it now . 
Every one waited with his grasp set , and his body bent down to the work , ready to reverse and wind in . 
At length the signal was given , and all the ring leaned forward . 
For , now , the rope came in , tightened and strained to its utmost as it appeared , and the men turned heavily , and the windlass complained . 
It was scarcely endurable to look at the rope , and think of its giving way . 
At first , none but the surgeon went close to it . 
He did what he could in its adjustment on the couch , but the best that he could do was to cover it . 
That gently done , he called to him Rachael and Sissy . 
They gave him drink , moistened his face with water , and administered some drops of cordial and wine . 
Though he lay quite motionless looking up at the sky , he smiled and said , 'Rachael . 
He smiled again and said , 'Don't let 't go . 
'Thou'rt in great pain , my own dear Stephen ? 'I ha' been , but not now . 
I ha' been dreadful , and dree , and long , my dear but 'tis ower now . 
Ah , Rachael , aw a muddle ! Fro' first to last , a muddle ! The spectre of his old look seemed to pass as he said the word . 
I ha' fell into a pit that ha' been wi' th' Firedamp crueller than battle . 
When it were in work , it killed wi'out need when 'tis let alone , it kills wi'out need . 
See how we die an' no need , one way an' another in a muddle every day ! He faintly said it , without any anger against any one . 
'Thy little sister , Rachael , thou hast not forgot her . 
Thou'rt not like to forget her now , and me so nigh her . 
A muddle ! Aw a muddle ! Louisa approached him but he could not see her , lying with his face turned up to the night sky . 
'If aw th' things that tooches us , my dear , was not so muddled , I should'n ha' had'n need to coom heer . 
If we was not in a muddle among ourseln , I should'n ha' been , by my own fellow weavers and workin' brothers , so mistook . 
If Mr. Bounderby had ever know'd me right if he'd ever know'd me at aw he would'n ha' took'n offence wi' me . 
He would'n ha' suspect'n me . 
But look up yonder , Rachael ! Look aboove ! Following his eyes , she saw that he was gazing at a star . 
'It ha' shined upon me , he said reverently , 'in my pain and trouble down below . 
It ha' shined into my mind . 
I ha' look'n at 't and thowt o' thee , Rachael , till the muddle in my mind have cleared awa , above a bit , I hope . 
If soom ha' been wantin' in unnerstan'in me better , I , too , ha' been wantin' in unnerstan'in them better . 
When I fell , I were in anger wi' her , an' hurryin on t' be as onjust t' her as oothers was t' me . 
But in our judgments , like as in our doins , we mun bear and forbear . 
Louisa hearing what he said , bent over him on the opposite side to Rachael , so that he could see her . 
'You ha' heard ? he said , after a few moments' silence . 
'I ha' not forgot you , ledy . 
'Yes , Stephen , I have heard you . 
And your prayer is mine . 
Will yo tak' a message to him ? 'He is here , said Louisa , with dread . 
'Shall I bring him to you ? 'If yo please . 
Louisa returned with her father . 
Standing hand in hand , they both looked down upon the solemn countenance . 
'Sir , yo will clear me an' mak my name good wi' aw men . 
This I leave to yo . 
Mr. Gradgrind was troubled and asked how ? 'Sir , was the reply 'yor son will tell yo how . 
I mak no charges I leave none ahint me not a single word . 
I ha' seen an' spok'n wi' yor son , one night . 
I ask no more o' yo than that yo clear me an' I trust to yo to do 't . 
'Rachael , beloved lass ! Don't let go my hand . 
We may walk toogether t'night , my dear ! 'I will hold thy hand , and keep beside thee , Stephen , all the way . 
Very few whispers broke the mournful silence . 
It was soon a funeral procession . 
The star had shown him where to find the God of the poor and through humility , and sorrow , and forgiveness , he had gone to his Redeemer's rest . 
CHAPTER VII WHELP HUNTING BEFORE the ring formed round the Old Hell Shaft was broken , one figure had disappeared from within it . 
Mr. Bounderby and his shadow had not stood near Louisa , who held her father's arm , but in a retired place by themselves . 
Without turning his head , he conferred with her a few moments , and vanished . 
Thus the whelp had gone out of the circle before the people moved . 
When the father reached home , he sent a message to Mr. Bounderby's , desiring his son to come to him directly . 
The reply was , that Mr. Bounderby having missed him in the crowd , and seeing nothing of him since , had supposed him to be at Stone Lodge . 
'I believe , father , said Louisa , 'he will not come back to town to night . 
Mr. Gradgrind turned away , and said no more . 
went back along the street to meet Mr. Bounderby on his way there . 
Also , that he was charged with the duty of vindicating Stephen Blackpool's memory , and declaring the thief . 
Mr. Bounderby quite confounded , stood stock still in the street after his father in law had left him , swelling like an immense soap bubble , without its beauty . 
Mr. Gradgrind went home , locked himself in his room , and kept it all that day . 
When Sissy and Louisa tapped at his door , he said , without opening it , 'Not now , my dears in the evening . 
On their return in the evening , he said , 'I am not able yet to morrow . 
He ate nothing all day , and had no candle after dark and they heard him walking to and fro late at night . 
But , in the morning he appeared at breakfast at the usual hour , and took his usual place at the table . 
Before he left the room , he appointed a time for them to come to him and so , with his gray head drooping , went away . 
'Dear father , said Louisa , when they kept their appointment , 'you have three young children left . 
They will be different , I will be different yet , with Heaven's help . 
She gave her hand to Sissy , as if she meant with her help too . 
'Your wretched brother , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'Do you think he had planned this robbery , when he went with you to the lodging ? 'I fear so , father . 
I know he had wanted money very much , and had spent a great deal . 
For I asked him to go there with me . 
The visit did not originate with him . 
'He had some conversation with the poor man . 
Did he take him aside ? 'He took him out of the room . 
'Let me know , said her father , 'if your thoughts present your guilty brother in the same dark view as mine . 
'Too plain ! returned the father . 
'Too plain ! He shaded his face , and remained silent for some moments . 
'Sissy has effected it , father . 
, I went to him when no one saw , and said to him , Don't look at me . 
See where your father is . 
I have not forgotten where Mr. Sleary goes at this time of year , and I read of him in a paper only the other day . 
I told him to hurry there , and tell his name , and ask Mr. Sleary to hide him till I came . 
I'll get to him before the morning , he said . 
And I saw him shrink away among the people . 
'Thank Heaven ! exclaimed his father . 
'He may be got abroad yet . 
When these arrangements had been well considered and were fully understood by all three , it was time to begin to carry them into execution . 
The first thing they saw on entering the town was the skeleton of Sleary's Circus . 
The company had departed for another town more than twenty miles off , and had opened there last night . 
The connection between the two places was by a hilly turnpike road , and the travelling on that road was very slow . 
, it was noon before they began to find the bills of Sleary's Horse riding on barns and walls , and one o'clock when they stopped in the market place . 
A Grand Morning Performance by the Riders , commencing at that very hour , was in course of announcement by the bellman as they set their feet upon the stones of the street . 
Sissy recommended that , to avoid making inquiries and attracting attention in the town , they should present themselves to pay at the door . 
If Mr. Sleary were taking the money , he would be sure to know her , and would proceed with discretion . 
If he were not , he would be sure to see them inside and , knowing what he had done with the fugitive , would proceed with discretion still . 
Therefore , they repaired , with fluttering hearts , to the well remembered booth . 
The flag with the inscription SLEARY'S HORSE RIDING was there and the Gothic niche was there but Mr. Sleary was not there . 
Sissy , though well acquainted with his Royal line , had no personal knowledge of the present Emperor , and his reign was peaceful . 
, and Mr. Sleary appeared , leading her in . 
But they got through the Act with great self possession and Mr. Sleary , saving for the first instant , conveyed no more expression into his locomotive eye than into his fixed one . 
'Thethilia , said Mr. Sleary , who had brandy and water at hand , 'it doth me good to thee you . 
You wath alwayth a favourite with uth , and you've done uth credith thinth the old timeth I'm thure . 
You mutht thee our people , my dear , afore we thpeak of bithnith , or they'll break their hearth ethpethially the women . 
He'th named The Little Wonder of Thcolathtic Equitation and if you don't hear of that boy at Athley'th , you'll hear of him at Parith . 
And you recollect Kidderminthter , that wath thought to be rather thweet upon yourthelf ? Well . 
Old enough to be hith mother . 
Thee wath Tightrope , thee wath , and now thee'th nothing on accounth of fat . 
They've got two children , tho we're thtrong in the Fairy bithnith and the Nurthery dodge . 
Well ! Emma , thee lotht her huthband . 
, and the Little Wonder of Scholastic Equitation , and in a word , all the company . 
'Now , Thethilia , I don't athk to know any thecreth , but I thuppothe I may conthider thith to be Mith Thquire . 
Hope I thee you well , mith . 
And I hope the Thquire'th well ? 'My father will be here soon , said Louisa , anxious to bring him to the point . 
'Is my brother safe ? 'Thafe and thound ! he replied . 
'I want you jutht to take a peep at the Ring , mith , through here . 
Thethilia , you know the dodgeth find a thpy hole for yourthelf . 
They each looked through a chink in the boards . 
'That'h Jack the Giant Killer piethe of comic infant bithnith , said Sleary . 
Now , do you thee 'em all ? 'Yes , they both said . 
'Look at 'em again , said Sleary , 'look at 'em well . 
You thee em all ? Very good . 
Now , mith he put a form for them to sit on 'I have my opinionth , and the Thquire your father hath hith . 
I don't want to know what your brother'th been up to ith better for me not to know . 
All I thay ith , the Thquire hath thtood by Thethilia , and I'll thtand by the Thquire . 
Your brother ith one them black thervanth . 
Louisa uttered an exclamation , partly of distress , partly of satisfaction . 
'Ith a fact , said Sleary , 'and even knowin' it , you couldn't put your finger on him . 
I thall keep your brother here after the performanth . 
I thant undreth him , nor yet wath hith paint off . 
Never mind the lookth of him , ath long ath he'th well hid . 
Louisa , with many thanks and with a lightened load , detained Mr. Sleary no longer then . 
She left her love for her brother , with her eyes full of tears and she and Sissy went away until later in the afternoon . 
Mr. Gradgrind arrived within an hour afterwards . 
He too had encountered no one whom he knew and was now sanguine with Sleary's assistance , of getting his disgraced son to Liverpool in the night . 
This done , they walked about , waiting for the Circus to be quite vacated not only by the audience , but by the company and by the horses . 
'Your thervant , Thquire , was his cautious salutation as they passed in . 
'If you want me you'll find me here . 
You muthn't mind your thon having a comic livery on . 
They all three went in and Mr. Gradgrind sat down forlorn , on the Clown's performing chair in the middle of the ring . 
And one of his model children had come to this ! At first the whelp would not draw any nearer , but persisted in remaining up there by himself . 
'How was this done ? asked the father . 
'How was what done ? moodily answered the son . 
'This robbery , said the father , raising his voice upon the word . 
'I forced the safe myself over night , and shut it up ajar before I went away . 
I had had the key that was found , made long before . 
I dropped it that morning , that it might be supposed to have been used . 
I didn't take the money all at once . 
I pretended to put my balance away every night , but I didn't . 
Now you know all about it . 
'If a thunderbolt had fallen on me , said the father , 'it would have shocked me less than this ! 'I don't see why , grumbled the son . 
'So many people are employed in situations of trust so many people , out of so many , will be dishonest . 
I have heard you talk , a hundred times , of its being a law . 
How can I help laws ? You have comforted others with such things , father . 
The evening was fast closing in and from time to time , he turned the whites of his eyes restlessly and impatiently towards his father . 
They were the only parts of his face that showed any life or expression , the pigment upon it was so thick . 
'You must be got to Liverpool , and sent abroad . 
I can't be more miserable anywhere , whimpered the whelp , 'than I have been here , ever since I can remember . 
There'th not muth time to lothe , tho you muth thay yeth or no . 
Ith over twenty mileth to the rail . 
There'th a coath in half an hour , that goeth to the rail , 'purpothe to cath the mail train . 
That train will take him right to Liverpool . 
'But look at him , groaned Mr. Gradgrind . 
'Will any coach 'I don't mean that he thould go in the comic livery , said Sleary . 
'Thay the word , and I'll make a Jothkin of him , out of the wardrobe , in five minutes . 
'I don't understand , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
Make up your mind quick , Thquire . 
There'll be beer to feth . 
I've never met with nothing but beer ath'll ever clean a comic blackamoor . 
'Now , said Sleary , 'come along to the coath , and jump up behind I'll go with you there , and they'll thuppothe you one of my people . 
Thay farewell to your family , and tharp'th the word . 
With which he delicately retired . 
'Here is your letter , said Mr. Gradgrind . 
'All necessary means will be provided for you . 
Atone , by repentance and better conduct , for the shocking action you have committed , and the dreadful consequences to which it has led . 
But , when Louisa opened her arms , he repulsed her afresh . 
'Pretty love ! Leaving old Bounderby to himself , and packing my best friend Mr. Harthouse off , and going home just when I was in the greatest danger . 
Pretty love that ! Coming out with every word about our having gone to that place , when you saw the net was gathering round me . 
Pretty love that ! You have regularly given me up . 
You never cared for me . 
'Tharp'th the word ! said Sleary , at the door . 
Mr. Gradgrind and Sissy , who were both before him while his sister yet clung to his shoulder , stopped and recoiled . 
There he stood , panting and heaving , as if he had never stopped since the night , now long ago , when he had run them down before . 
'I'm sorry to interfere with your plans , said Bitzer , shaking his head , 'but I can't allow myself to be done by horse riders . 
For , so he took possession of him . 
CHAPTER VIII PHILOSOPHICAL THEY went back into the booth , Sleary shutting the door to keep intruders out . 
Bitzer , still holding the paralysed culprit by the collar , stood in the Ring , blinking at his old patron through the darkness of the twilight . 
No man , sir , acquainted with the facts established by Harvey relating to the circulation of the blood , can doubt that I have a heart . 
'Is it accessible , cried Mr. Gradgrind , 'to any compassionate influence ? 'It is accessible to Reason , sir , returned the excellent young man . 
They stood looking at each other Mr. Gradgrind's face as white as the pursuer's . 
'What motive even what motive in reason can you have for preventing the escape of this wretched youth , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'and crushing his miserable father ? See his sister here . 
I have suspected young Mr. Tom of this bank robbery from the first . 
I had had my eye upon him before that time , for I knew his ways . 
I had the pleasure of watching your house yesterday morning , and following you here . 
I am going to take young Mr. Tom back to Coketown , in order to deliver him over to Mr. Bounderby . 
Sir , I have no doubt whatever that Mr. Bounderby will then promote me to young Mr. Tom's situation . 
And I wish to have his situation , sir , for it will be a rise to me , and will do me good . 
'If this is solely a question of self interest with you Mr. Gradgrind began . 
'I beg your pardon for interrupting you , sir , returned Bitzer 'but I am sure you know that the whole social system is a question of self interest . 
What you must always appeal to , is a person's self interest . 
I was brought up in that catechism when I was very young , sir , as you are aware . 
You were many years at my school . 
'I really wonder , sir , rejoined the old pupil in an argumentative manner , 'to find you taking a position so untenable . 
My schooling was paid for it was a bargain and when I came away , the bargain ended . 
It was a fundamental principle of the Gradgrind philosophy that everything was to be paid for . 
Nobody was ever on any account to give anybody anything , or render anybody help without purchase . 
Gratitude was to be abolished , and the virtues springing from it were not to be . 
Every inch of the existence of mankind , from birth to death , was to be a bargain across a counter . 
And if we didn't get to Heaven that way , it was not a politico economical place , and we had no business there . 
'I don't deny , added Bitzer , 'that my schooling was cheap . 
But that comes right , sir . 
I was made in the cheapest market , and have to dispose of myself in the dearest . 
He was a little troubled here , by Louisa and Sissy crying . 
'Pray don't do that , said he , 'it's of no use doing that it only worries . 
You seem to think that I have some animosity against young Mr. Tom whereas I have none at all . 
I am only going , on the reasonable grounds I have mentioned , to take him back to Coketown . 
If he was to resist , I should set up the cry of Stop thief ! But , he won't resist , you may depend upon it . 
Conthequently , Thquire , you muthn't quarrel with me if I take thith young man'th thide , and thay he'th right and there'th no help for it . 
But I tell you what I'll do , Thquire I'll drive your thon and thith young man over to the rail , and prevent expothure here . 
I can't conthent to do more , but I'll do that . 
Fresh lamentations from Louisa , and deeper affliction on Mr. Gradgrind's part , followed this desertion of them by their last friend . 
But , Sissy glanced at him with great attention nor did she in her own breast misunderstand him . 
As they were all going out again , he favoured her with one slight roll of his movable eye , desiring her to linger behind . 
As he locked the door , he said excitedly 'The Thquire thtood by you , Thethilia , and I'll thtand by the Thquire . 
More than that thith ith a prethiouth rathcal , and belongth to that bluthtering Cove that my people nearly pitht out o' winder . 
Get a word with the young Thquire . 
Tell him , when he theeth our horthe begin to danthe , not to be afraid of being thpilt , but to look out for a pony gig coming up . 
Tell him , when he theeth that gig clothe by , to jump down , and it'll take him off at a rattling pathe . 
If my dog leth thith young man thtir a peg on foot , I give him leave to go . 
The other three sat up at the inn all night in great suspense . 
At eight o'clock in the morning Mr. Sleary and the dog reappeared both in high spirits . 
'All right , Thquire ! said Mr. Sleary , 'your thon may be aboard a thip by thith time . 
Childerth took him off , an hour and a half after we left there latht night . 
, and then I gave him the word and he went to thleep comfortable . 
Tho he come back into the drag , and there he that , 'till I turned the horthe'th head , at half patht thixth thith morning . 
Mr. Gradgrind overwhelmed him with thanks , of course and hinted as delicately as he could , at a handsome remuneration in money . 
'I don't want money mythelf , Thquire but Childerth ith a family man , and if you wath to like to offer him a five pound note , it mightn't be unactheptable . 
Likewithe if you wath to thtand a collar for the dog , or a thet of bellth for the horthe , I thould be very glad to take 'em . 
Brandy and water I alwayth take . 
He had already called for a glass , and now called for another . 
All these little tokens of his gratitude , Mr. Gradgrind very willingly undertook to render . 
Though he thought them far too slight , he said , for such a service . 
'Very well , Thquire then , if you'll only give a Horthe riding , a bethpeak , whenever you can , you'll more than balanthe the account . 
Now , Thquire , if your daughter will ethcuthe me , I thould like one parting word with you . 
'Their instinct , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'is surprising . 
'Whatever you call it and I'm bletht if I know what to call it' said Sleary , 'it ith athtonithing . 
The way in whith a dog'll find you the dithtanthe he'll come ! 'His scent , said Mr. Gradgrind , 'being so fine . 
I can get you hith addreth directly . 
'Any way , said Sleary , after putting his lips to his brandy and water , 'ith fourteen month ago , Thquire , thinthe we wath at Chethter . 
We wath getting up our Children in the Wood one morning , when there cometh into our Ring , by the thtage door , a dog . 
He had travelled a long way , he wath in a very bad condithon , he wath lame , and pretty well blind . 
Thquire , that dog wath Merrylegth . 
'Sissy's father's dog ! 'Thethilia'th father'th old dog . 
Now , Thquire , I can take my oath , from my knowledge of that dog , that that man wath dead and buried afore that dog come back to me . 
Joth'phine and Childerth and me talked it over a long time , whether I thould write or not . 
Mr. Sleary emptied his glass and recalled the ladies . 
I hope your brother may live to be better detherving of you , and a greater comfort to you . 
Thquire , thake handth , firtht and latht ! Don't be croth with uth poor vagabondth . 
They can't be alwayth a learning , nor yet they can't be alwayth a working , they an't made for it . 
You mutht have uth , Thquire . 
Mr. Bounderby felt that Mrs. Sparsit had audaciously anticipated him , and presumed to be wiser than he . 
Filled fuller than ever , with this great idea , Mr. Bounderby came in to lunch , and sat himself down in the dining room of former days , where his portrait was . 
Mrs. Sparsit sat by the fire , with her foot in her cotton stirrup , little thinking whither she was posting . 
Since the Pegler affair , this gentlewoman had covered her pity for Mr. Bounderby with a veil of quiet melancholy and contrition . 
In virtue thereof , it had become her habit to assume a woful look , which woful look she now bestowed upon her patron . 
'What's the matter now , ma'am ? said Mr. Bounderby , in a very short , rough way . 
'Pray , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit , 'do not bite my nose off . 
'Bite your nose off , ma'am ? repeated Mr. Bounderby . 
'Your nose ! meaning , as Mrs. Sparsit conceived , that it was too developed a nose for the purpose . 
After which offensive implication , he cut himself a crust of bread , and threw the knife down with a noise . 
Mrs. Sparsit took her foot out of her stirrup , and said , 'Mr . 
Bounderby , sir ! 'Well , ma'am ? retorted Mr. Bounderby . 
'What are you staring at ? 'May I ask , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit , 'have you been ruffled this morning ? 'Yes , ma'am . 
A female may be highly connected , but she can't be permitted to bother and badger a man in my position , and I am not going to put up with it . 
Mrs. Sparsit first elevated , then knitted , her Coriolanian eyebrows gathered up her work into its proper basket and rose . 
'Sir , said she , majestically . 
'It is apparent to me that I am in your way at present . 
I will retire to my own apartment . 
'Allow me to open the door , ma'am . 
'Thank you , sir I can do it for myself . 
Everybody knows how unerring Mr. Bounderby's judgment is . 
Everybody has had proofs of it . 
It must be the theme of general conversation . 
Disparage anything in yourself but your judgment , sir , said Mrs. Sparsit , laughing . 
Such an establishment as your relation , Lady Scadgers's , now . 
'Then suppose you try , ma'am , said Bounderby , laying an envelope with a cheque in it in her little basket . 
I really ought to apologise to you being only Josiah Bounderby of Coketown for having stood in your light so long . 
'Pray don't name it , sir , returned Mrs. Sparsit . 
Nothing that a Noodle does , can awaken surprise or indignation the proceedings of a Noodle can only inspire contempt . 
Mr. Bounderby closed the door , and stood before the fire projecting himself after his old explosive manner into his portrait and into futurity . 
Yet the portrait was to see it all out . 
Here was Mr. Gradgrind on the same day , and in the same hour , sitting thoughtful in his own room . 
Here was Louisa on the night of the same day , watching the fire as in days of yore , though with a gentler and a humbler face . 
might beseech were of the Present . 
So , Stephen Blackpool's tombstone , with her father's record of his death , was almost of the Present , for she knew it was to be . 
These things she could plainly see . 
Dear reader ! It rests with you and me , whether , in our two fields of action , similar things shall be or not . 
Let them be ! We shall sit with lighter bosoms on the hearth , to see the ashes of our fires turn gray and cold . 
