HEART OF DARKNESS by Joseph Conrad I The Nellie , a cruising yawl , swung to her anchor without a flutter of the sails , and was at rest . 
The sea reach of the Thames stretched before us like the beginning of an interminable waterway . 
A haze rested on the low shores that ran out to sea in vanishing flatness . 
The air was dark above Gravesend , and farther back still seemed condensed into a mournful gloom , brooding motionless over the biggest , and the greatest , town on earth . 
The Director of Companies was our captain and our host . 
We four affectionately watched his back as he stood in the bows looking to seaward . 
On the whole river there was nothing that looked half so nautical . 
He resembled a pilot , which to a seaman is trustworthiness personified . 
It was difficult to realize his work was not out there in the luminous estuary , but behind him , within the brooding gloom . 
Between us there was , as I have already said somewhere , the bond of the sea . 
Besides holding our hearts together through long periods of separation , it had the effect of making us tolerant of each other's yarns and even convictions . 
The Lawyer the best of old fellows had , because of his many years and many virtues , the only cushion on deck , and was lying on the only rug . 
The Accountant had brought out already a box of dominoes , and was toying architecturally with the bones . 
Marlow sat cross legged right aft , leaning against the mizzen mast . 
He had sunken cheeks , a yellow complexion , a straight back , an ascetic aspect , and , with his arms dropped , the palms of hands outwards , resembled an idol . 
The director , satisfied the anchor had good hold , made his way aft and sat down amongst us . 
We exchanged a few words lazily . 
Afterwards there was silence on board the yacht . 
For some reason or other we did not begin that game of dominoes . 
We felt meditative , and fit for nothing but placid staring . 
The day was ending in a serenity of still and exquisite brilliance . 
Only the gloom to the west , brooding over the upper reaches , became more sombre every minute , as if angered by the approach of the sun . 
Forthwith a change came over the waters , and the serenity became less brilliant but more profound . 
We looked at the venerable stream not in the vivid flush of a short day that comes and departs for ever , but in the august light of abiding memories . 
It had known the ships and the men . 
What greatness had not floated on the ebb of that river into the mystery of an unknown earth ! . 
The dreams of men , the seed of commonwealths , the germs of empires . 
The sun set the dusk fell on the stream , and lights began to appear along the shore . 
The Chapman light house , a three legged thing erect on a mud flat , shone strongly . 
Lights of ships moved in the fairway a great stir of lights going up and going down . 
And farther west on the upper reaches the place of the monstrous town was still marked ominously on the sky , a brooding gloom in sunshine , a lurid glare under the stars . 
And this also , said Marlow suddenly , has been one of the dark places of the earth . 
He was the only man of us who still followed the sea . 
The worst that could be said of him was that he did not represent his class . 
He was a seaman , but he was a wanderer , too , while most seamen lead , if one may so express it , a sedentary life . 
Their minds are of the stay at home order , and their home is always with them the ship and so is their country the sea . 
One ship is very much like another , and the sea is always the same . 
The yarns of seamen have a direct simplicity , the whole meaning of which lies within the shell of a cracked nut . 
His remark did not seem at all surprising . 
It was just like Marlow . 
It was accepted in silence . 
Light came out of this river since you say Knights ? Yes but it is like a running blaze on a plain , like a flash of lightning in the clouds . 
We live in the flicker may it last as long as the old earth keeps rolling ! But darkness was here yesterday . 
Sand banks , marshes , forests , savages , precious little to eat fit for a civilized man , nothing but Thames water to drink . 
No Falernian wine here , no going ashore . 
They must have been dying like flies here . 
Oh , yes he did it . 
Did it very well , too , no doubt , and without thinking much about it either , except afterwards to brag of what he had gone through in his time , perhaps . 
They were men enough to face the darkness . 
There's no initiation either into such mysteries . 
He has to live in the midst of the incomprehensible , which is also detestable . 
And it has a fascination , too , that goes to work upon him . 
The fascination of the abomination you know , imagine the growing regrets , the longing to escape , the powerless disgust , the surrender , the hate . 
What saves us is efficiency the devotion to efficiency . 
But these chaps were not much account , really . 
They were no colonists their administration was merely a squeeze , and nothing more , I suspect . 
They grabbed what they could get for the sake of what was to be got . 
It was just robbery with violence , aggravated murder on a great scale , and men going at it blind as is very proper for those who tackle a darkness . 
What redeems it is the idea only . 
Flames glided in the river , small green flames , red flames , white flames , pursuing , overtaking , joining , crossing each other then separating slowly or hastily . 
The traffic of the great city went on in the deepening night upon the sleepless river . 
It was the farthest point of navigation and the culminating point of my experience . 
It seemed somehow to throw a kind of light on everything about me and into my thoughts . 
It was sombre enough , too and pitiful not extraordinary in any way not very clear either . 
No , not very clear . 
And yet it seemed to throw a kind of light . 
It was very fine for a time , but after a bit I did get tired of resting . 
Then I began to look for a ship I should think the hardest work on earth . 
But the ships wouldn't even look at me . 
And I got tired of that game , too . 
Now when I was a little chap I had a passion for maps . 
I would look for hours at South America , or Africa , or Australia , and lose myself in all the glories of exploration . 
I would put my finger on it and say , When I grow up I will go there . 
The North Pole was one of these places , I remember . 
Well , I haven't been there yet , and shall not try now . 
Other places were scattered about the hemispheres . 
I have been in some of them , and . 
well , we won't talk about that . 
But there was one yet the biggest , the most blank , so to speak that I had a hankering after . 
True , by this time it was not a blank space any more . 
It had got filled since my boyhood with rivers and lakes and names . 
It had ceased to be a blank space of delightful mystery a white patch for a boy to dream gloriously over . 
It had become a place of darkness . 
And as I looked at the map of it in a shop window , it fascinated me as a snake would a bird a silly little bird . 
Then I remembered there was a big concern , a Company for trade on that river . 
The snake had charmed me . 
I am sorry to own I began to worry them . 
This was already a fresh departure for me . 
I was not used to get things that way , you know . 
I always went my own road and on my own legs where I had a mind to go . 
I wouldn't have believed it of myself but , then you see I felt somehow I must get there by hook or by crook . 
The men said My dear fellow , and did nothing . 
Then would you believe it ? I tried the women . 
I , Charlie Marlow , set the women to work to get a job . 
Heavens ! Well , you see , the notion drove me . 
I had an aunt , a dear enthusiastic soul . 
She wrote It will be delightful . 
I am ready to do anything , anything for you . 
It is a glorious idea . 
I know the wife of a very high personage in the Administration , and also a man who has lots of influence with , etc . 
She was determined to make no end of fuss to get me appointed skipper of a river steamboat , if such was my fancy . 
I got my appointment of course and I got it very quick . 
It appears the Company had received news that one of their captains had been killed in a scuffle with the natives . 
This was my chance , and it made me the more anxious to go . 
Yes , two black hens . 
Fresleven that was the fellow's name , a Dane thought himself wronged somehow in the bargain , so he went ashore and started to hammer the chief of the village with a stick . 
Afterwards nobody seemed to trouble much about Fresleven's remains , till I got out and stepped into his shoes . 
I couldn't let it rest , though but when an opportunity offered at last to meet my predecessor , the grass growing through his ribs was tall enough to hide his bones . 
The supernatural being had not been touched after he fell . 
And the village was deserted , the huts gaped black , rotting , all askew within the fallen enclosures . 
A calamity had come to it , sure enough . 
Mad terror had scattered them , men , women , and children , through the bush , and they had never returned . 
What became of the hens I don't know either . 
I should think the cause of progress got them , anyhow . 
However , through this glorious affair I got my appointment , before I had fairly begun to hope for it . 
I flew around like mad to get ready , and before forty eight hours I was crossing the Channel to show myself to my employers , and sign the contract . 
In a very few hours I arrived in a city that always makes me think of a whited sepulchre . 
I had no difficulty in finding the Company's offices . 
It was the biggest thing in the town , and everybody I met was full of it . 
They were going to run an over sea empire , and make no end of coin by trade . 
I slipped through one of these cracks , went up a swept and ungarnished staircase , as arid as a desert , and opened the first door I came to . 
Two women , one fat and the other slim , sat on straw bottomed chairs , knitting black wool . 
Her dress was as plain as an umbrella cover , and she turned round without a word and preceded me into a waiting room . 
I gave my name , and looked about . 
Deal table in the middle , plain chairs all round the walls , on one end a large shining map , marked with all the colours of a rainbow . 
However , I wasn't going into any of these . 
I was going into the yellow . 
And the river was there fascinating deadly like a snake . 
Ough ! A door opened , ya white haired secretarial head , but wearing a compassionate expression , appeared , and a skinny forefinger beckoned me into the sanctuary . 
Its light was dim , and a heavy writing desk squatted in the middle . 
From behind that structure came out an impression of pale plumpness in a frock coat . 
He was five feet six , I should judge , and had his grip on the handle end of ever so many millions . 
He shook hands , I fancy , murmured vaguely , was satisfied with my French . 
In about forty five seconds I found myself again in the waiting room with the compassionate secretary , who , full of desolation and sympathy , made me sign some document . 
I believe I undertook amongst other things not to disclose any trade secrets . 
Well , I am not going to . 
I began to feel slightly uneasy . 
You know I am not used to such ceremonies , and there was something ominous in the atmosphere . 
It was just as though I had been let into some conspiracy I don't know something not quite right and I was glad to get out . 
In the outer room the two women knitted black wool feverishly . 
People were arriving , and the younger one was walking back and forth introducing them . 
The old one sat on her chair . 
Her flat cloth slippers were propped up on a foot warmer , and a cat reposed on her lap . 
She wore a starched white affair on her head , had a wart on one cheek , and silver rimmed spectacles hung on the tip of her nose . 
She glanced at me above the glasses . 
The swift and indifferent placidity of that look troubled me . 
Two youths with foolish and cheery countenances were being piloted over , and she threw at them the same quick glance of unconcerned wisdom . 
She seemed to know all about them and about me , too . 
An eerie feeling came over me . 
She seemed uncanny and fateful . 
AVE ! Old knitter of black wool . 
Not many of those she looked at ever saw her again not half , by a long way . 
There was yet a visit to the doctor . 
A simple formality , assured me the secretary , with an air of taking an immense part in all my sorrows . 
It was a little too early for the doctor , so I proposed a drink , and thereupon he developed a vein of joviality . 
As we sat over our vermouths he glorified the Company's business , and by and by I expressed casually my surprise at him not going out there . 
He became very cool and collected all at once . 
I am not such a fool as I look , quoth Plato to his disciples , he said sententiously , emptied his glass with great resolution , and we rose . 
The old doctor felt my pulse , evidently thinking of something else the while . 
Good , good for there , he mumbled , and then with a certain eagerness asked me whether I would let him measure my head . 
Rather surprised , I said Yes , when he produced a thing like calipers and got the dimensions back and front and every way , taking notes carefully . 
He was an unshaven little man in a threadbare coat like a gaberdine , with his feet in slippers , and I thought him a harmless fool . 
I always ask leave , in the interests of science , to measure the crania of those going out there , he said . 
And when they come back , too ? I asked . 
Oh , I never see them , he remarked and , moreover , the changes take place inside , you know . 
He smiled , as if at some quiet joke . 
So you are going out there . 
He gave me a searching glance , and made another note . 
Ever any madness in your family ? he asked , in a matter of fact tone . 
Are you an alienist ? I interrupted . 
Every doctor should be a little , answered that original , imperturbably . 
I have a little theory which you messieurs who go out there must help me to prove . 
This is my share in the advantages my country shall reap from the possession of such a magnificent dependency . 
The mere wealth I leave to others . 
Pardon my questions , but you are the first Englishman coming under my observation . 
I hastened to assure him I was not in the least typical . 
If I were , said I , I wouldn't be talking like this with you . 
What you say is rather profound , and probably erroneous , he said , with a laugh . 
Avoid irritation more than exposure to the sun . 
How do you English say , eh ? Good bye . 
In the tropics one must before everything keep calm . 
He lifted a warning forefinger . 
DU CALME , DU CALME . 
One thing more remained to do say good bye to my excellent aunt . 
Something like an emissary of light , something like a lower sort of apostle . 
She talked about 'weaning those ignorant millions from their horrid ways , till , upon my word , she made me quite uncomfortable . 
I ventured to hint that the Company was run for profit . 
You forget , dear Charlie , that the labourer is worthy of his hire , she said , brightly . 
It's queer how out of touch with truth women are . 
They live in a world of their own , and there has never been anything like it , and never can be . 
It is too beautiful altogether , and if they were to set it up it would go to pieces before the first sunset . 
Some confounded fact we men have been living contentedly with ever since the day of creation would start up and knock the whole thing over . 
After this I got embraced , told to wear flannel , be sure to write often , and so on and I left . 
In the street I don't know why a queer feeling came to me that I was an imposter . 
Watching a coast as it slips by the ship is like thinking about an enigma . 
There it is before you smiling , frowning , inviting , grand , mean , insipid , or savage , and always mute with an air of whispering , Come and find out . 
This one was almost featureless , as if still in the making , with an aspect of monotonous grimness . 
The sun was fierce , the land seemed to glisten and drip with steam . 
Here and there greyish whitish specks showed up clustered inside the white surf , with a flag flying above them perhaps . 
Settlements some centuries old , and still no bigger than pinheads on the untouched expanse of their background . 
Some , I heard , got drowned in the surf but whether they did or not , nobody seemed particularly to care . 
They were just flung out there , and on we went . 
The voice of the surf heard now and then was a positive pleasure , like the speech of a brother . 
It was something natural , that had its reason , that had a meaning . 
Now and then a boat from the shore gave one a momentary contact with reality . 
It was paddled by black fellows . 
You could see from afar the white of their eyeballs glistening . 
They wanted no excuse for being there . 
They were a great comfort to look at . 
For a time I would feel I belonged still to a world of straightforward facts but the feeling would not last long . 
Something would turn up to scare it away . 
Once , I remember , we came upon a man of war anchored off the coast . 
There wasn't even a shed there , and she was shelling the bush . 
It appears the French had one of their wars going on thereabouts . 
In the empty immensity of earth , sky , and water , there she was , incomprehensible , firing into a continent . 
Nowhere did we stop long enough to get a particularized impression , but the general sense of vague and oppressive wonder grew upon me . 
It was like a weary pilgrimage amongst hints for nightmares . 
It was upward of thirty days before I saw the mouth of the big river . 
We anchored off the seat of the government . 
But my work would not begin till some two hundred miles farther on . 
So as soon as I could I made a start for a place thirty miles higher up . 
I had my passage on a little sea going steamer . 
Her captain was a Swede , and knowing me for a seaman , invited me on the bridge . 
He was a young man , lean , fair , and morose , with lanky hair and a shuffling gait . 
As we left the miserable little wharf , he tossed his head contemptuously at the shore . 
Been living there ? he asked . 
Fine lot these government chaps are they not ? he went on , speaking English with great precision and considerable bitterness . 
It is funny what some people will do for a few francs a month . 
I wonder what becomes of that kind when it goes upcountry ? I said to him I expected to see that soon . 
So o o ! he exclaimed . 
He shuffled athwart , keeping one eye ahead vigilantly . 
Don't be too sure , he continued . 
The other day I took up a man who hanged himself on the road . 
He was a Swede , too . 
Hanged himself ! Why , in God's name ? I cried . 
He kept on looking out watchfully . 
Who knows ? The sun too much for him , or the country perhaps . 
At last we opened a reach . 
A continuous noise of the rapids above hovered over this scene of inhabited devastation . 
A lot of people , mostly black and naked , moved about like ants . 
A jetty projected into the river . 
A blinding sunlight drowned all this at times in a sudden recrudescence of glare . 
There's your Company's station , said the Swede , pointing to three wooden barrack like structures on the rocky slope . 
I will send your things up . 
Four boxes did you say ? So . 
I came upon a boiler wallowing in the grass , then found a path leading up the hill . 
It turned aside for the boulders , and also for an undersized railway truck lying there on its back with its wheels in the air . 
The thing looked as dead as the carcass of some animal . 
I came upon more pieces of decaying machinery , a stack of rusty rails . 
To the left a clump of trees made a shady spot , where dark things seemed to stir feebly . 
I blinked , the path was steep . 
A horn tooted to the right , and I saw the black people run . 
A heavy and dull detonation shook the ground , a puff of smoke came out of the cliff , and that was all . 
No change appeared on the face of the rock . 
They were building a railway . 
The cliff was not in the way or anything but this objectless blasting was all the work going on . 
A slight clinking behind me made me turn my head . 
Six black men advanced in a file , toiling up the path . 
They walked erect and slow , balancing small baskets full of earth on their heads , and the clink kept time with their footsteps . 
Black rags were wound round their loins , and the short ends behind waggled to and fro like tails . 
Another report from the cliff made me think suddenly of that ship of war I had seen firing into a continent . 
It was the same kind of ominous voice but these men could by no stretch of imagination be called enemies . 
They were called criminals , and the outraged law , like the bursting shells , had come to them , an insoluble mystery from the sea . 
All their meagre breasts panted together , the violently dilated nostrils quivered , the eyes stared stonily uphill . 
They passed me within six inches , without a glance , with that complete , deathlike indifference of unhappy savages . 
Behind this raw matter one of the reclaimed , the product of the new forces at work , strolled despondently , carrying a rifle by its middle . 
He had a uniform jacket with one button off , and seeing a white man on the path , hoisted his weapon to his shoulder with alacrity . 
This was simple prudence , white men being so much alike at a distance that he could not tell who I might be . 
He was speedily reassured , and with a large , white , rascally grin , and a glance at his charge , seemed to take me into partnership in his exalted trust . 
After all , I also was a part of the great cause of these high and just proceedings . 
Instead of going up , I turned and descended to the left . 
My idea was to let that chain gang get out of sight before I climbed the hill . 
You know I am not particularly tender I've had to strike and to fend off . 
How insidious he could be , too , I was only to find out several months later and a thousand miles farther . 
For a moment I stood appalled , as though by a warning . 
Finally I descended the hill , obliquely , towards the trees I had seen . 
I avoided a vast artificial hole somebody had been digging on the slope , the purpose of which I found it impossible to divine . 
It wasn't a quarry or a sandpit , anyhow . 
It was just a hole . 
It might have been connected with the philanthropic desire of giving the criminals something to do . 
Then I nearly fell into a very narrow ravine , almost no more than a scar in the hillside . 
I discovered that a lot of imported drainage pipes for the settlement had been tumbled in there . 
There wasn't one that was not broken . 
It was a wanton smash up . 
At last I got under the trees . 
My purpose was to stroll into the shade for a moment but no sooner within than it seemed to me I had stepped into the gloomy circle of some Inferno . 
Another mine on the cliff went off , followed by a slight shudder of the soil under my feet . 
The work was going on . 
The work ! And this was the place where some of the helpers had withdrawn to die . 
They were dying slowly it was very clear . 
They were not enemies , they were not criminals , they were nothing earthly now nothing but black shadows of disease and starvation , lying confusedly in the greenish gloom . 
These moribund shapes were free as air and nearly as thin . 
I began to distinguish the gleam of the eyes under the trees . 
Then , glancing down , I saw a face near my hand . 
The man seemed young almost a boy but you know with them it's hard to tell . 
I found nothing else to do but to offer him one of my good Swede's ship's biscuits I had in my pocket . 
The fingers closed slowly on it and held there was no other movement and no other glance . 
Near the same tree two more bundles of acute angles sat with their legs drawn up . 
While I stood horror struck , one of these creatures rose to his hands and knees , and went off on all fours towards the river to drink . 
I didn't want any more loitering in the shade , and I made haste towards the station . 
When near the buildings I met a white man , in such an unexpected elegance of get up that in the first moment I took him for a sort of vision . 
I saw a high starched collar , white cuffs , a light alpaca jacket , snowy trousers , a clean necktie , and varnished boots . 
Hair parted , brushed , oiled , under a green lined parasol held in a big white hand . 
He was amazing , and had a penholder behind his ear . 
I shook hands with this miracle , and I learned he was the Company's chief accountant , and that all the book keeping was done at this station . 
He had come out for a moment , he said , to get a breath of fresh air . 
The expression sounded wonderfully odd , with its suggestion of sedentary desk life . 
Moreover , I respected the fellow . 
Yes I respected his collars , his vast cuffs , his brushed hair . 
His appearance was certainly that of a hairdresser's dummy but in the great demoralization of the land he kept up his appearance . 
His starched collars and got up shirt fronts were achievements of character . 
He had been out nearly three years and , later , I could not help asking him how he managed to sport such linen . 
He had just the faintest blush , and said modestly , I've been teaching one of the native women about the station . 
She had a distaste for the work . 
Thus this man had verily accomplished something . 
And he was devoted to his books , which were in apple pie order . 
Everything else in the station was in a muddle heads , things , buildings . 
I had to wait in the station for ten days an eternity . 
I lived in a hut in the yard , but to be out of the chaos I would sometimes get into the accountant's office . 
There was no need to open the big shutter to see . 
It was hot there , too big flies buzzed fiendishly , and did not sting , but stabbed . 
, perching on a high stool , he wrote , he wrote . 
Sometimes he stood up for exercise . 
was put in there , he exhibited a gentle annoyance . 
The groans of this sick person , he said , distract my attention . 
And without that it is extremely difficult to guard against clerical errors in this climate . 
One day he remarked , without lifting his head , In the interior you will no doubt meet Mr. Kurtz . 
Sends in as much ivory as all the others put together . 
He began to write again . 
The sick man was too ill to groan . 
The flies buzzed in a great peace . 
Suddenly there was a growing murmur of voices and a great tramping of feet . 
A caravan had come in . 
A violent babble of uncouth sounds burst out on the other side of the planks . 
All the carriers were speaking together , and in the midst of the uproar the lamentable voice of the chief agent was heard giving it up' tearfully for the twentieth time that day . 
What a frightful row , he said . 
He crossed the room gently to look at the sick man , and returning , said to me , He does not hear . 
What ! Dead ? I asked , startled . 
No , not yet , he answered , with great composure . 
He remained thoughtful for a moment . 
When you see Mr. Kurtz' he went on , tell him from me that everything here' he glanced at the deck is very satisfactory . 
I don't like to write to him with those messengers of ours you never know who may get hold of your letter at that Central Station . 
He stared at me for a moment with his mild , bulging eyes . 
Oh , he will go far , very far , he began again . 
He will be a somebody in the Administration before long . 
They , above the Council in Europe , you know mean him to be . 
He turned to his work . 
The noise outside had ceased , and presently in going out I stopped at the door . 
Next day I left that station at last , with a caravan of sixty men , for a two hundred mile tramp . 
No use telling you much about that . 
The population had cleared out a long time ago . 
Only here the dwellings were gone , too . 
Still I passed through several abandoned villages . 
There's something pathetically childish in the ruins of grass walls . 
Day after day , with the stamp and shuffle of sixty pair of bare feet behind me , each pair under a lb . 
Camp , cook , sleep , strike camp , march . 
Now and then a carrier dead in harness , at rest in the long grass near the path , with an empty water gourd and his long staff lying by his side . 
A great silence around and above . 
Once a white man in an unbuttoned uniform , camping on the path with an armed escort of lank Zanzibaris , very hospitable and festive not to say drunk . 
Was looking after the upkeep of the road , he declared . 
Annoying , you know , to hold your own coat like a parasol over a man's head while he is coming to . 
I couldn't help asking him once what he meant by coming there at all . 
To make money , of course . 
What do you think ? he said , scornfully . 
Then he got fever , and had to be carried in a hammock slung under a pole . 
As he weighed sixteen stone I had no end of rows with the carriers . 
They jibbed , ran away , sneaked off with their loads in the night quite a mutiny . 
An hour afterwards I came upon the whole concern wrecked in a bush man , hammock , groans , blankets , horrors . 
The heavy pole had skinned his poor nose . 
He was very anxious for me to kill somebody , but there wasn't the shadow of a carrier near . 
I remembered the old doctor 'It would be interesting for science to watch the mental changes of individuals , on the spot . 
I felt I was becoming scientifically interesting . 
However , all that is to no purpose . 
On the fifteenth day I came in sight of the big river again , and hobbled into the Central Station . 
A neglected gap was all the gate it had , and the first glance at the place was enough to let you see the flabby devil was running that show . 
White men with long staves in their hands appeared languidly from amongst the buildings , strolling up to take a look at me , and then retired out of sight somewhere . 
What , how , why ? Oh , it was all right . 
The manager himself' was there . 
Everybody had behaved splendidly ! splendidly ! 'you must , he said in agitation , go and see the general manager at once . 
He is waiting ! I did not see the real significance of that wreck at once . 
I fancy I see it now , but I am not sure not at all . 
Certainly the affair was too stupid when I think of it to be altogether natural . 
But at the moment it presented itself simply as a confounded nuisance . 
I asked myself what I was to do there , now my boat was lost . 
As a matter of fact , I had plenty to do in fishing my command out of the river . 
I had to set about it the very next day . 
That , and the repairs when I brought the pieces to the station , took some months . 
My first interview with the manager was curious . 
He did not ask me to sit down after my twenty mile walk that morning . 
He was commonplace in complexion , in features , in manners , and in voice . 
He was of middle size and of ordinary build . 
His eyes , of the usual blue , were perhaps remarkably cold , and he certainly could make his glance fall on one as trenchant and heavy as an axe . 
But even at these times the rest of his person seemed to disclaim the intention . 
Otherwise there was only an indefinable , faint expression of his lips , something stealthy a smile not a smile I remember it , but I can't explain . 
It was unconscious , this smile was , though just after he had said something it got intensified for an instant . 
It came at the end of his speeches like a seal applied on the words to make the meaning of the commonest phrase appear absolutely inscrutable . 
He was a common trader , from his youth up employed in these parts nothing more . 
He was obeyed , yet he inspired neither love nor fear , nor even respect . 
That was it ! Uneasiness . 
Not a definite mistrust just uneasiness nothing more . 
You have no idea how effective such a . 
He had no genius for organizing , for initiative , or for order even . 
That was evident in such things as the deplorable state of the station . 
He had no learning , and no intelligence . 
His position had come to him why ? Perhaps because he was never ill . 
He had served three terms of three years out there . 
Because triumphant health in the general rout of constitutions is a kind of power in itself . 
When he went home on leave he rioted on a large scale pompously . 
Jack ashore with a difference in externals only . 
This one could gather from his casual talk . 
He originated nothing , he could keep the routine going that's all . 
He was great by this little thing that it was impossible to tell what could control such a man . 
He never gave that secret away . 
Perhaps there was nothing within him . 
Such a suspicion made one pause for out there there were no external checks . 
Once when various tropical diseases had laid low almost every agent' in the station , he was heard to say , Men who come out here should have no entrails . 
He sealed the utterance with that smile of his , as though it had been a door opening into a darkness he had in his keeping . 
You fancied you had seen things but the seal was on . 
This was the station's mess room . 
Where he sat was the first place the rest were nowhere . 
One felt this to be his unalterable conviction . 
He was neither civil nor uncivil . 
He allowed his boy' an overfed young negro from the coast to treat the white men , under his very eyes , with provoking insolence . 
He began to speak as soon as he saw me . 
I had been very long on the road . 
Had to start without me . 
The up river stations had to be relieved . 
There had been so many delays already that he did not know who was dead and who was alive , and how they got on and so on , and so on . 
He paid no attention to my explanations , and , playing with a stick of sealing wax , repeated several times that the situation was very grave , very grave . 
There were rumours that a very important station was in jeopardy , and its chief , Mr. Kurtz , was ill . 
Hoped it was not true . 
I felt weary and irritable . 
Hang Kurtz , I thought . 
I interrupted him by saying I had heard of Mr. Kurtz on the coast . 
Ah ! So they talk of him down there , he murmured to himself . 
Then he began again , assuring me Mr. Kurtz was the best agent he had , an exceptional man , of the greatest importance to the Company therefore I could understand his anxiety . 
He was , he said , very , very uneasy . 
Certainly he fidgeted on his chair a good deal , exclaimed , Ah , Mr. Kurtz ! broke the stick of sealing wax and seemed dumfounded by the accident . 
Next thing he wanted to know how long it would take to' . 
Being hungry , you know , and kept on my feet too . 
How can I tell ? I said . 
I haven't even seen the wreck yet some months , no doubt . 
All this talk seemed to me so futile . 
Some months , he said . 
Well , let us say three months before we can make a start . 
That ought to do the affair . 
muttering to myself my opinion of him . 
He was a chattering idiot . 
Afterwards I took it back when it was borne in upon me startlingly with what extreme nicety he had estimated the time requisite for the affair . 
I went to work the next day , turning , so to speak , my back on that station . 
In that way only it seemed to me I could keep my hold on the redeeming facts of life . 
Still , one must look about sometimes and then I saw this station , these men strolling aimlessly about in the sunshine of the yard . 
I asked myself sometimes what it all meant . 
They wandered here and there with their absurd long staves in their hands , like a lot of faithless pilgrims bewitched inside a rotten fence . 
The word ivory' rang in the air , was whispered , was sighed . 
You would think they were praying to it . 
A taint of imbecile rapacity blew through it all , like a whiff from some corpse . 
By Jove ! I've never seen anything so unreal in my life . 
Oh , these months ! Well , never mind . 
I noticed there was a hole in the bottom of his pail . 
You see the thing had gone off like a box of matches . 
It had been hopeless from the very first . 
The flame had leaped high , driven everybody back , lighted up everything and collapsed . 
The shed was already a heap of embers glowing fiercely . 
A nigger was being beaten near by . 
They said he had caused the fire in some way be that as it may , he was screeching most horribly . 
As I approached the glow from the dark I found myself at the back of two men , talking . 
I heard the name of Kurtz pronounced , then the words , take advantage of this unfortunate accident . 
One of the men was the manager . 
I wished him a good evening . 
Did you ever see anything like it eh ? it is incredible , he said , and walked off . 
He was a first class agent , young , gentlemanly , a bit reserved , with a forked little beard and a hooked nose . 
He was stand offish with the other agents , and they on their side said he was the manager's spy upon them . 
As to me , I had hardly ever spoken to him before . 
We got into talk , and by and by we strolled away from the hissing ruins . 
Then he asked me to his room , which was in the main building of the station . 
He struck a match , and I perceived that this young aristocrat had not only a silver mounted dressing case but also a whole candle all to himself . 
Just at that time the manager was the only man supposed to have any right to candles . 
Native mats covered the clay walls a collection of spears , assegais , shields , knives was hung up in trophies . 
It seems he could not make bricks without something , I don't know what straw maybe . 
Anyway , it could not be found there and as it was not likely to be sent from Europe , it did not appear clear to me what he was waiting for . 
An act of special creation perhaps . 
They beguiled the time by back biting and intriguing against each other in a foolish kind of way . 
There was an air of plotting about that station , but nothing came of it , of course . 
It was as unreal as everything else as the philanthropic pretence of the whole concern , as their talk , as their government , as their show of work . 
The only real feeling was a desire to get appointed to a trading post where ivory was to be had , so that they could earn percentages . 
They intrigued and slandered and hated each other only on that account but as to effectually lifting a little finger oh , no . 
By heavens ! there is something after all in the world allowing one man to steal a horse while another must not look at a halter . 
Steal a horse straight out . 
But there is a way of looking at a halter that would provoke the most charitable of saints into a kick . 
He alluded constantly to Europe , to the people I was supposed to know there putting leading questions as to my acquaintances in the sepulchral city , and so on . 
His little eyes glittered like mica discs with curiosity though he tried to keep up a bit of superciliousness . 
At first I was astonished , but very soon I became awfully curious to see what he would find out from me . 
I couldn't possibly imagine what I had in me to make it worth his while . 
It was evident he took me for a perfectly shameless prevaricator . 
At last he got angry , and , to conceal a movement of furious annoyance , he yawned . 
Then I noticed a small sketch in oils , on a panel , representing a woman , draped and blindfolded , carrying a lighted torch . 
The background was sombre almost black . 
The movement of the woman was stately , and the effect of the torchlight on the face was sinister . 
It arrested me , and he stood by civilly , holding an empty half pint champagne bottle with the candle stuck in it . 
To my question he said Mr. Kurtz had painted this in this very station more than a year ago while waiting for means to go to his trading post . 
Tell me , pray , said I , who is this Mr. Kurtz ? The chief of the Inner Station , he answered in a short tone , looking away . 
Much obliged , I said , laughing . 
And you are the brickmaker of the Central Station . 
He was silent for a while . 
He is a prodigy , he said at last . 
He is an emissary of pity and science and progress , and devil knows what else . 
Who says that ? I asked . 
Lots of them , he replied . 
Some even write that and so HE comes here , a special being , as you ought to know . 
Why ought I to know ? I interrupted , really surprised . 
Today he is chief of the best station , next year he will be assistant manager , two years more and . 
but I dare say you know what he will be in two years' time . 
You are of the new gang the gang of virtue . 
The same people who sent him specially also recommended you . 
Oh , don't say no . 
I've my own eyes to trust . 
My dear aunt's influential acquaintances were producing an unexpected effect upon that young man . 
I nearly burst into a laugh . 
Do you read the Company's confidential correspondence ? I asked . 
He hadn't a word to say . 
When Mr. Kurtz , I continued , severely , is General Manager , you won't have the opportunity . 
He blew the candle out suddenly , and we went outside . 
Black figures strolled about listlessly , pouring water on the glow , whence proceeded a sound of hissing steam ascended in the moonlight , the beaten nigger groaned somewhere . 
What a row the brute makes ! said the indefatigable man with the moustaches , appearing near us . 
Transgression punishment bang ! Pitiless , pitiless . 
This will prevent all conflagrations for the future . 
I was just telling the manager . 
He noticed my companion , and became crestfallen all at once . 
Not in bed yet , he said , with a kind of servile heartiness it's so natural . 
I went on to the riverside , and the other followed me . 
I heard a scathing murmur at my ear , Heap of muffs go to . 
The pilgrims could be seen in knots gesticulating , discussing . 
Several had still their staves in their hands . 
I verily believe they took these sticks to bed with them . 
The hurt nigger moaned feebly somewhere near by , and then fetched a deep sigh that made me mend my pace away from there . 
I felt a hand introducing itself under my arm . 
My dear sir , said the fellow , I don't want to be misunderstood , and especially by you , who will see Mr. Kurtz long before I can have that pleasure . 
I wouldn't like him to get a false idea of my disposition . 
He talked precipitately , and I did not try to stop him . 
I had my shoulders against the wreck of my steamer , hauled up on the slope like a carcass of some big river animal . 
All this was great , expectant , mute , while the man jabbered about himself . 
I wondered whether the stillness on the face of the immensity looking at us two were meant as an appeal or as a menace . 
What was in there ? I could see a little ivory coming out from there , and I had heard Mr. Kurtz was in there . 
I believed it in the same way one of you might believe there are inhabitants in the planet Mars . 
I knew once a Scotch sailmaker who was certain , dead sure , there were people in Mars . 
If you asked him for some idea how they looked and behaved , he would get shy and mutter something about walking on all fours . 
If you as much as smiled , he would though a man of sixty offer to fight you . 
I would not have gone so far as to fight for Kurtz , but I went for him near enough to a lie . 
You know I hate , detest , and can't bear a lie , not because I am straighter than the rest of us , but simply because it appalls me . 
There is a taint of death , a flavour of mortality in lies which is exactly what I hate and detest in the world what I want to forget . 
It makes me miserable and sick , like biting something rotten would do . 
Well , I went near enough to it by letting the young fool there believe anything he liked to imagine as to my influence in Europe . 
I became in an instant as much of a pretence as the rest of the bewitched pilgrims . 
This simply because I had a notion it somehow would be of help to that Kurtz whom at the time I did not see you understand . 
He was just a word for me . 
I did not see the man in the name any more than you do . 
He was silent for a while . 
No , it is impossible it is impossible to convey the life sensation of any given epoch of one's existence that which makes its truth , its meaning its subtle and penetrating essence . 
We live , as we dream alone . 
He paused again as if reflecting , then added Of course in this you fellows see more than I could then . 
You see me , whom you know . 
It had become so pitch dark that we listeners could hardly see one another . 
For a long time already he , sitting apart , had been no more to us than a voice . 
There was not a word from anybody . 
The others might have been asleep , but I was awake . 
Yes I let him run on , Marlow began again , and think what he pleased about the powers that were behind me . 
And when one comes out here , you conceive , it is not to gaze at the moon . 
Mr. Kurtz was a universal genius , but even a genius would find it easier to work with adequate tools intelligent men . 
Did I see it ? I saw it . 
What more did I want ? What I really wanted was rivets , by heaven ! Rivets . 
To get on with the work to stop the hole . 
There were cases of them down at the coast cases piled up burst split ! You kicked a loose rivet at every second step in that station yard on the hillside . 
Rivets had rolled into the grove of death . 
You could fill your pockets with rivets for the trouble of stooping down and there wasn't one rivet to be found where it was wanted . 
We had plates that would do , but nothing to fasten them with . 
And every week the messenger , a long negro , letter bag on shoulder and staff in hand , left our station for the coast . 
Three carriers could have brought all that was wanted to set that steamboat afloat . 
Now letters went to the coast every week . 
My dear sir , he cried , I write from dictation . 
There was a way for an intelligent man . 
He changed his manner became very cold , and suddenly began to talk about a hippopotamus wondered whether sleeping on board the steamer I wasn't disturbed . 
There was an old hippo that had the bad habit of getting out on the bank and roaming at night over the station grounds . 
The pilgrims used to turn out in a body and empty every rifle they could lay hands on at him . 
Some even had sat up o' nights for him . 
All this energy was wasted , though . 
That animal has a charmed life , he said but you can say this only of brutes in this country . 
No man you apprehend me ? no man here bears a charmed life . 
I could see he was disturbed and considerably puzzled , which made me feel more hopeful than I had been for days . 
It was a great comfort to turn from that chap to my influential friend , the battered , twisted , ruined , tin pot steamboat . 
No influential friend would have served me better . 
She had given me a chance to come out a bit to find out what I could do . 
No , I don't like work . 
I had rather laze about and think of all the fine things that can be done . 
I don't like work no man does but I like what is in the work the chance to find yourself . 
Your own reality for yourself , not for others what no other man can ever know . 
They can only see the mere show , and never can tell what it really means . 
I was not surprised to see somebody sitting aft , on the deck , with his legs dangling over the mud . 
You see I rather chummed with the few mechanics there were in that station , whom the other pilgrims naturally despised on account of their imperfect manners , I suppose . 
This was the foreman a boiler maker by trade a good worker . 
He was a lank , bony , yellow faced man , with big intense eyes . 
, and the passion of his life was pigeon flying . 
He was an enthusiast and a connoisseur . 
He would rave about pigeons . 
It had loops to go over his ears . 
In the evening he could be seen squatted on the bank rinsing that wrapper in the creek with great care , then spreading it solemnly on a bush to dry . 
I slapped him on the back and shouted , We shall have rivets ! He scrambled to his feet exclaiming , No ! Rivets ! as though he couldn't believe his ears . 
Then in a low voice , You . 
eh ? I don't know why we behaved like lunatics . 
I put my finger to the side of my nose and nodded mysteriously . 
Good for you ! he cried , snapped his fingers above his head , lifting one foot . 
We capered on the iron deck . 
A frightful clatter came out of that hulk , and the virgin forest on the other bank of the creek sent it back in a thundering roll upon the sleeping station . 
It must have made some of the pilgrims sit up in their hovels . 
A dark figure obscured the lighted doorway of the manager's hut , vanished , then , a second or so after , the doorway itself vanished , too . 
We stopped , and the silence driven away by the stamping of our feet flowed back again from the recesses of the land . 
A deadened burst of mighty splashes and snorts reached us from afar , as though an icthyosaurus had been taking a bath of glitter in the great river . 
They'll come in three weeks , I said confidently . 
Instead of rivets there came an invasion , an infliction , a visitation . 
It was an inextricable mess of things decent in themselves but that human folly made look like the spoils of thieving . 
This devoted band called itself the Eldorado Exploring Expedition , and I believe they were sworn to secrecy . 
To tear treasure out of the bowels of the land was their desire , with no more moral purpose at the back of it than there is in burglars breaking into a safe . 
Who paid the expenses of the noble enterprise I don't know but the uncle of our manager was leader of that lot . 
In exterior he resembled a butcher in a poor neighbourhood , and his eyes had a look of sleepy cunning . 
He carried his fat paunch with ostentation on his short legs , and during the time his gang infested the station spoke to no one but his nephew . 
You could see these two roaming about all day long with their heads close together in an everlasting confab . 
I had given up worrying myself about the rivets . 
One's capacity for that kind of folly is more limited than you would suppose . 
I said Hang ! and let things slide . 
I had plenty of time for meditation , and now and then I would give some thought to Kurtz . 
I wasn't very interested in him . 
II One evening as I was lying flat on the deck of my steamboat , I heard voices approaching and there were the nephew and the uncle strolling along the bank . 
Am I the manager or am I not ? I was ordered to send him there . 
I became aware that the two were standing on the shore alongside the forepart of the steamboat , just below my head . 
I did not move it did not occur to me to move I was sleepy . 
It IS unpleasant , grunted the uncle . 
He has asked the Administration to be sent there , said the other , with the idea of showing what he could do and I was instructed accordingly . 
Look at the influence that man must have . 
I had rather be alone than have the kind of men you can dispose of with me . 
It was more than a year ago . 
Can you imagine such impudence ! Anything since then ? asked the other hoarsely . 
Ivory , jerked the nephew lots of it prime sort lots most annoying , from him . 
And with that ? questioned the heavy rumble . 
Invoice , was the reply fired out , so to speak . 
They had been talking about Kurtz . 
I was broad awake by this time , but , lying perfectly at ease , remained still , having no inducement to change my position . 
How did that ivory come all this way ? growled the elder man , who seemed very vexed . 
The two fellows there seemed astounded at anybody attempting such a thing . 
They were at a loss for an adequate motive . 
As to me , I seemed to see Kurtz for the first time . 
I did not know the motive . 
Perhaps he was just simply a fine fellow who stuck to his work for its own sake . 
His name , you understand , had not been pronounced once . 
The half caste , who , as far as I could see , had conducted a difficult trip with great prudence and pluck , was invariably alluded to as that scoundrel . 
The scoundrel' had reported that the man' had been very ill had recovered imperfectly . 
The two below me moved away then a few paces , and strolled back and forth at some little distance . 
I heard Military post doctor two hundred miles quite alone now unavoidable delays nine months no news strange rumours . 
Who was it they were talking about now ? I gathered in snatches that this was some man supposed to be in Kurtz's district , and of whom the manager did not approve . 
We will not be free from unfair competition till one of these fellows is hanged for an example , he said . 
Certainly , grunted the other get him hanged ! Why not ? Anything anything can be done in this country . 
That's what I say nobody here , you understand , HERE , can endanger your position . 
And why ? You stand the climate you outlast them all . 
The danger is in Europe but there before I left I took care to They moved off and whispered , then their voices rose again . 
The extraordinary series of delays is not my fault . 
And the pestiferous absurdity of his talk , continued the other he bothered me enough when he was here . 
Each station should be like a beacon on the road towards better things , a centre for trade of course , but also for humanizing , improving , instructing . 
Conceive you that ass ! And he wants to be manager ! No , it's Here he got choked by excessive indignation , and I lifted my head the least bit . 
I was surprised to see how near they were right under me . 
I could have spat upon their hats . 
They were looking on the ground , absorbed in thought . 
The manager was switching his leg with a slender twig his sagacious relative lifted his head . 
You have been well since you came out this time ? he asked . 
The other gave a start . 
Who ? I ? Oh ! Like a charm like a charm . 
But the rest oh , my goodness ! All sick . 
They die so quick , too , that I haven't the time to send them out of the country it's incredible ! Hm'm . 
Just so , grunted the uncle . 
Ah ! my boy , trust to this I say , trust to this . 
You know the foolish notions that come to one sometimes . 
The high stillness confronted these two figures with its ominous patience , waiting for the passing away of a fantastic invasion . 
They swore aloud together out of sheer fright , I believe then pretending not to know anything of my existence , turned back to the station . 
In a few days the Eldorado Expedition went into the patient wilderness , that closed upon it as the sea closes over a diver . 
Long afterwards the news came that all the donkeys were dead . 
I know nothing as to the fate of the less valuable animals . 
They , no doubt , like the rest of us , found what they deserved . 
I was then rather excited at the prospect of meeting Kurtz very soon . 
When I say very soon I mean it comparatively . 
It was just two months from the day we left the creek when we came to the bank below Kurtz's station . 
Going up that river was like traveling back to the earliest beginnings of the world , when vegetation rioted on the earth and the big trees were kings . 
An empty stream , a great silence , an impenetrable forest . 
The air was warm , thick , heavy , sluggish . 
There was no joy in the brilliance of sunshine . 
The long stretches of the waterway ran on , deserted , into the gloom of overshadowed distances . 
On silvery sand banks hippos and alligators sunned themselves side by side . 
And this stillness of life did not in the least resemble a peace . 
It was the stillness of an implacable force brooding over an inscrutable intention . 
It looked at you with a vengeful aspect . 
I got used to it afterwards I did not see it any more I had no time . 
When you have to attend to things of that sort , to the mere incidents of the surface , the reality the reality , I tell you fades . 
The inner truth is hidden luckily , luckily . 
I forgot the heartache which makes up the rest of the price . 
And indeed what does the price matter , if the trick be well done ? You do your tricks very well . 
And I didn't do badly either , since I managed not to sink that steamboat on my first trip . 
It's a wonder to me yet . 
Imagine a blindfolded man set to drive a van over a bad road . 
I sweated and shivered over that business considerably , I can tell you . 
After all , for a seaman , to scrape the bottom of the thing that's supposed to float all the time under his care is the unpardonable sin . 
No one may know of it , but you never forget the thump eh ? A blow on the very heart . 
You remember it , you dream of it , you wake up at night and think of it years after and go hot and cold all over . 
I don't pretend to say that steamboat floated all the time . 
More than once she had to wade for a bit , with twenty cannibals splashing around and pushing . 
We had enlisted some of these chaps on the way for a crew . 
Fine fellows cannibals in their place . 
They were men one could work with , and I am grateful to them . 
Phoo ! I can sniff it now . 
I had the manager on board and three or four pilgrims with their staves all complete . 
It made you feel very small , very lost , and yet it was not altogether depressing , that feeling . 
After all , if you were small , the grimy beetle crawled on which was just what you wanted it to do . 
Where the pilgrims imagined it crawled to I don't know . 
To some place where they expected to get something . 
I bet ! For me it crawled towards Kurtz exclusively but when the steam pipes started leaking we crawled very slow . 
The reaches opened before us and closed behind , as if the forest had stepped leisurely across the water to bar the way for our return . 
We penetrated deeper and deeper into the heart of darkness . 
It was very quiet there . 
Whether it meant war , peace , or prayer we could not tell . 
The dawns were heralded by the descent of a chill stillness the wood cutters slept , their fires burned low the snapping of a twig would make you start . 
Were were wanderers on a prehistoric earth , on an earth that wore the aspect of an unknown planet . 
We could have fancied ourselves the first of men taking possession of an accursed inheritance , to be subdued at the cost of profound anguish and of excessive toil . 
of feet stamping , of bodies swaying , of eyes rolling , under the droop of heavy and motionless foliage . 
The steamer toiled along slowly on the edge of a black and incomprehensible frenzy . 
We are accustomed to look upon the shackled form of a conquered monster , but there there you could look at a thing monstrous and free . 
It was unearthly , and the men were No , they were not inhuman . 
Well , you know , that was the worst of it this suspicion of their not being inhuman . 
It would come slowly to one . 
And why not ? The mind of man is capable of anything because everything is in it , all the past as well as all the future . 
What was there after all ? Joy , fear , sorrow , devotion , valour , rage who can tell ? but truth truth stripped of its cloak of time . 
Let the fool gape and shudder the man knows , and can look on without a wink . 
But he must at least be as much of a man as these on the shore . 
He must meet that truth with his own true stuff with his own inborn strength . 
Acquisitions , clothes , pretty rags rags that would fly off at the first good shake . 
No you want a deliberate belief . 
Of course , a fool , what with sheer fright and fine sentiments , is always safe . 
Who's that grunting ? You wonder I didn't go ashore for a howl and a dance ? Well , no I didn't . 
Fine sentiments , you say ? Fine sentiments , be hanged ! I had no time . 
I had to mess about with white lead and strips of woolen blanket helping to put bandages on those leaky steam pipes I tell you . 
I had to watch the steering , and circumvent those snags , and get the tin pot along by hook or by crook . 
There was surface truth enough in these things to save a wiser man . 
And between whiles I had to look after the savage who was fireman . 
He was an improved specimen he could fire up a vertical boiler . 
A few months of training had done for that really fine chap . 
, while the wooded banks slipped past us slowly , the short noise was left behind , the interminable miles of silence and we crept on , towards Kurtz . 
We came to the bank , and on the stack of firewood found a flat piece of board with some faded pencil writing on it . 
When deciphered it said Wood for you . 
There was a signature , but it was illegible not Kurtz a much longer word . 
Where ? Up the river ? Approach cautiously . 
We had not done so . 
But the warning could not have been meant for the place where it could be only found after approach . 
But what and how much ? That was the question . 
We commented adversely upon the imbecility of that telegraphic style . 
The bush around said nothing , and would not let us look very far , either . 
A torn curtain of red twill hung in the doorway of the hut , and flapped sadly in our faces . 
The dwelling was dismantled but we could see a white man had lived there not very long ago . 
There remained a rude table a plank on two posts a heap of rubbish reposed in a dark corner , and by the door I picked up a book . 
It was an extraordinary find . 
Its title was , AN INQUIRY INTO SOME POINTS OF SEAMANSHIP , by a man Towser , Towson some such name Master in his Majesty's Navy . 
The matter looked dreary reading enough , with illustrative diagrams and repulsive tables of figures , and the copy was sixty years old . 
I handled this amazing antiquity with the greatest possible tenderness , lest it should dissolve in my hands . 
Within , Towson or Towser was inquiring earnestly into the breaking strain of ships' chains and tackle , and other such matters . 
The simple old sailor , with his talk of chains and purchases , made me forget the jungle and the pilgrims in a delicious sensation of having come upon something unmistakably real . 
Such a book being there was wonderful enough but still more astounding were the notes pencilled in the margin , and plainly referring to the text . 
I couldn't believe my eyes ! They were in cipher ! Yes , it looked like cipher . 
Fancy a man lugging with him a book of that description into this nowhere and studying it and making notes in cipher at that ! It was an extravagant mystery . 
I slipped the book into my pocket . 
I assure you to leave off reading was like tearing myself away from the shelter of an old and solid friendship . 
I started the lame engine ahead . 
It must be this miserable trader this intruder , exclaimed the manager , looking back malevolently at the place we had left . 
He must be English , I said . 
It will not save him from getting into trouble if he is not careful , muttered the manager darkly . 
I observed with assumed innocence that no man was safe from trouble in this world . 
It was like watching the last flickers of a life . 
Sometimes I would pick out a tree a little way ahead to measure our progress towards Kurtz by , but I lost it invariably before we got abreast . 
To keep the eyes so long on one thing was too much for human patience . 
The manager displayed a beautiful resignation . 
What did it matter what any one knew or ignored ? What did it matter who was manager ? One gets sometimes such a flash of insight . 
The essentials of this affair lay deep under the surface , beyond my reach , and beyond my power of meddling . 
Towards the evening of the second day we judged ourselves about eight miles from Kurtz's station . 
Moreover , he pointed out that if the warning to approach cautiously were to be followed , we must approach in daylight not at dusk or in the dark . 
Eight miles meant nearly three hours' steaming for us , and I could also see suspicious ripples at the upper end of the reach . 
Nevertheless , I was annoyed beyond expression at the delay , and most unreasonably , too , since one night more could not matter much after so many months . 
As we had plenty of wood , and caution was the word , I brought up in the middle of the stream . 
The reach was narrow , straight , with high sides like a railway cutting . 
The dusk came gliding into it long before the sun had set . 
The current ran smooth and swift , but a dumb immobility sat on the banks . 
It was not sleep it seemed unnatural , like a state of trance . 
Not the faintest sound of any kind could be heard . 
You looked on amazed , and began to suspect yourself of being deaf then the night came suddenly , and struck you blind as well . 
About three in the morning some large fish leaped , and the loud splash made me jump as though a gun had been fired . 
When the sun rose there was a white fog , very warm and clammy , and more blinding than the night . 
It did not shift or drive it was just there , standing all round you like something solid . 
At eight or nine , perhaps , it lifted as a shutter lifts . 
I ordered the chain , which we had begun to heave in , to be paid out again . 
Before it stopped running with a muffled rattle , a cry , a very loud cry , as of infinite desolation , soared slowly in the opaque air . 
A complaining clamour , modulated in savage discords , filled our ears . 
The sheer unexpectedness of it made my hair stir under my cap . 
Two others remained open mouthed a while minute , then dashed into the little cabin , to rush out incontinently and stand darting scared glances , with Winchesters at ready' in their hands . 
The rest of the world was nowhere , as far as our eyes and ears were concerned . 
Gone , disappeared swept off without leaving a whisper or a shadow behind . 
I went forward , and ordered the chain to be hauled in short , so as to be ready to trip the anchor and move the steamboat at once if necessary . 
Will they attack ? whispered an awed voice . 
We will be all butchered in this fog , murmured another . 
The faces twitched with the strain , the hands trembled slightly , the eyes forgot to wink . 
The whites , of course greatly discomposed , had besides a curious look of being painfully shocked by such an outrageous row . 
The others had an alert , naturally interested expression but their faces were essentially quiet , even those of the one or two who grinned as they hauled at the chain . 
Several exchanged short , grunting phrases , which seemed to settle the matter to their satisfaction . 
Aha ! I said , just for good fellowship's sake . 
Catch 'im , he snapped , with a bloodshot widening of his eyes and a flash of sharp teeth 'catch 'im . 
It looked like a high handed proceeding but it was really a case of legitimate self defence . 
You can't breathe dead hippo waking , sleeping , and eating , and at the same time keep your precarious grip on existence . 
You can see how THAT worked . 
So , unless they swallowed the wire itself , or made loops of it to snare the fishes with , I don't see what good their extravagant salary could be to them . 
I must say it was paid with a regularity worthy of a large and honourable trading company . 
And I saw that something restraining , one of those human secrets that baffle probability , had come into play there . 
Perhaps I had a little fever , too . 
One can't live with one's finger everlastingly on one's pulse . 
Don't you know the devilry of lingering starvation , its exasperating torment , its black thoughts , its sombre and brooding ferocity ? Well , I do . 
It takes a man all his inborn strength to fight hunger properly . 
It's really easier to face bereavement , dishonour , and the perdition of one's soul than this kind of prolonged hunger . 
And these chaps , too , had no earthly reason for any kind of scruple . 
Restraint ! I would just as soon have expected restraint from a hyena prowling amongst the corpses of a battlefield . 
Two pilgrims were quarrelling in hurried whispers as to which bank . 
no , no how can you ? Right , right , of course . 
It is very serious , said the manager's voice behind me I would be desolated if anything should happen to Mr. Kurtz before we came up . 
I looked at him , and had not the slightest doubt he was sincere . 
He was just the kind of man who would wish to preserve appearances . 
But when he muttered something about going on at once , I did not even take the trouble to answer him . 
I knew , and he knew , that it was impossible . 
Were we to let go our hold of the bottom , we would be absolutely in the air in space . 
Of course I made no move . 
I had no mind for a smash up . 
You couldn't imagine a more deadly place for a shipwreck . 
Whether we drowned at once or not , we were sure to perish speedily in one way or another . 
I authorize you to take all the risks , he said , after a short silence . 
I refuse to take any , I said shortly which was just the answer he expected , though its tone might have surprised him . 
Well , I must defer to your judgment . 
You are captain , he said with marked civility . 
I turned my shoulder to him in sign of my appreciation , and looked into the fog . 
How long would it last ? It was the most hopeless lookout . 
The approach to this Kurtz grubbing for ivory in the wretched bush was beset by as many dangers as though he had been an enchanted princess sleeping in a fabulous castle . 
Will they attack , do you think ? asked the manager , in a confidential tone . 
I did not think they would attack , for several obvious reasons . 
The thick fog was one . 
If they left the bank in their canoes they would get lost in it , as we would be if we attempted to move . 
Still , I had also judged the jungle of both banks quite impenetrable and yet eyes were in it , eyes that had seen us . 
The riverside bushes were certainly very thick but the undergrowth behind was evidently penetrable . 
However , during the short lift I had seen no canoes anywhere in the reach certainly not abreast of the steamer . 
But what made the idea of attack inconceivable to me was the nature of the noise of the cries we had heard . 
They had not the fierce character boding immediate hostile intention . 
Unexpected , wild , and violent as they had been , they had given me an irresistible impression of sorrow . 
The glimpse of the steamboat had for some reason filled those savages with unrestrained grief . 
The danger , if any , I expounded , was from our proximity to a great human passion let loose . 
Even extreme grief may ultimately vent itself in violence but more generally takes the form of apathy . 
You should have seen the pilgrims stare ! They had no heart to grin , or even to revile me but I believe they thought me gone mad with fright , maybe . 
I delivered a regular lecture . 
My dear boys , it was no good bothering . 
It felt like it , too choking , warm , stifling . 
Besides , all I said , though it sounded extravagant , was absolutely true to fact . 
What we afterwards alluded to as an attack was really an attempt at repulse . 
We had just floundered and flopped round a bend , when I saw an islet , a mere grassy hummock of bright green , in the middle of the stream . 
Now , as far as I did see , I could go to the right or to the left of this . 
I didn't know either channel , of course . 
The banks looked pretty well alike , the depth appeared the same but as I had been informed the station was on the west side , I naturally headed for the western passage . 
No sooner had we fairly entered it than I became aware it was much narrower than I had supposed . 
To the left of us there was the long uninterrupted shoal , and to the right a high , steep bank heavily overgrown with bushes . 
Above the bush the trees stood in serried ranks . 
The twigs overhung the current thickly , and from distance to distance a large limb of some tree projected rigidly over the stream . 
It was then well on in the afternoon , the face of the forest was gloomy , and a broad strip of shadow had already fallen on the water . 
In this shadow we steamed up very slowly , as you may imagine . 
I sheered her well inshore the water being deepest near the bank , as the sounding pole informed me . 
One of my hungry and forbearing friends was sounding in the bows just below me . 
This steamboat was exactly like a decked scow . 
On the deck , there were two little teakwood houses , with doors and windows . 
The boiler was in the fore end , and the machinery right astern . 
yOver the whole there was a light roof , supported on stanchions . 
The funnel projected through that roof , and in front of the funnel a small cabin built of light planks served for a pilot house . 
It contained a couch , two camp stools , a loaded Martini Henry leaning in one corner , a tiny table , and the steering wheel . 
It had a wide door in front and a broad shutter at each side . 
All these were always thrown open , of course . 
I spent my days perched up there on the extreme fore end of that roof , before the door . 
At night I slept , or tried to , on the couch . 
An athletic black belonging to some coast tribe and educated by my poor predecessor , was the helmsman . 
He sported a pair of brass earrings , wore a blue cloth wrapper from the waist to the ankles , and thought all the world of himself . 
He was the most unstable kind of fool I had ever seen . 
He kept hold on it though , and it trailed in the water . 
At the same time the fireman , whom I could also see below me , sat down abruptly before his furnace and ducked his head . 
Then I had to look at the river mighty quick , because there was a snag in the fairway . 
Sticks , little sticks , were flying about thick they were whizzing before my nose , dropping below me , striking behind me against my pilot house . 
All this time the river , the shore , the woods , were very quiet perfectly quiet . 
I could only hear the heavy splashing thump of the stern wheel and the patter of these things . 
We cleared the snag clumsily . 
Arrows , by Jove ! We were being shot at ! I stepped in quickly to close the shutter on the landside . 
That fool helmsman , his hands on the spokes , was lifting his knees high , stamping his feet , champing his mouth , like a reined in horse . 
Confound him ! And we were staggering within ten feet of the bank . 
The twigs shook , swayed , and rustled , the arrows flew out of them , and then the shutter came to . 
Steer her straight , I said to the helmsman . 
He held his head rigid , face forward but his eyes rolled , he kept on lifting and setting down his feet gently , his mouth foamed a little . 
Keep quiet ! I said in a fury . 
I might just as well have ordered a tree not to sway in the wind . 
What ? Another snag ! A fusillade burst out under my feet . 
The pilgrims had opened with their Winchesters , and were simply squirting lead into that bush . 
A deuce of a lot of smoke came up and drove slowly forward . 
Now I couldn't see the ripple or the snag either . 
I stood in the doorway , peering , and the arrows came in swarms . 
They might have been poisoned , but they looked as though they wouldn't kill a cat . 
The bush began to howl . 
Our wood cutters raised a warlike whoop the report of a rifle just at my back deafened me . 
I glanced over my shoulder , and the pilot house was yet full of noise and smoke when I made a dash at the wheel . 
The fool nigger had dropped everything , to throw the shutter open and let off that Martini Henry . 
He stood before the wide opening , glaring , and I yelled at him to come back , while I straightened the sudden twist out of that steamboat . 
We tore slowly along the overhanging bushes in a whirl of broken twigs and flying leaves . 
The fusillade below stopped short , as I had foreseen it would when the squirts got empty . 
I threw my head back to a glinting whizz that traversed the pilot house , in at one shutter hole and out at the other . 
The side of his head hit the wheel twice , and the end of what appeared a long cane clattered round and knocked over a little camp stool . 
It looked as though after wrenching that thing from somebody ashore he had lost his balance in the effort . 
The man had rolled on his back and stared straight up at me both his hands clutched that cane . 
The fusillade burst out again . 
He looked at me anxiously , gripping the spear like something precious , with an air of being afraid I would try to take it away from him . 
I had to make an effort to free my eyes from his gaze and attend to the steering . 
With one hand I felt above my head for the line of the steam whistle , and jerked out screech after screech hurriedly . 
I put the helm hard a starboard at the moment when the pilgrim in pink pyjamas , very hot and agitated , appeared in the doorway . 
The manager sends me he began in an official tone , and stopped short . 
Good God ! he said , glaring at the wounded man . 
We two whites stood over him , and his lustrous and inquiring glance enveloped us both . 
The lustre of inquiring glance faded swiftly into vacant glassiness . 
Can you steer ? I asked the agent eagerly . 
He looked very dubious but I made a grab at his arm , and he understood at once I meant him to steer whether or no . 
To tell you the truth , I was morbidly anxious to change my shoes and socks . 
He is dead , murmured the fellow , immensely impressed . 
No doubt about it , said I , tugging like mad at the shoe laces . 
And by the way , I suppose Mr. Kurtz is dead as well by this time . 
For the moment that was the dominant thought . 
There was a sense of extreme disappointment , as though I had found out I had been striving after something altogether without a substance . 
I couldn't have been more disgusted if I had travelled all this way for the sole purpose of talking with Mr. Kurtz . 
I flung one shoe overboard , and became aware that that was exactly what I had been looking forward to a talk with Kurtz . 
I made the strange discovery that I had never imagined him as doing , you know , but as discoursing . 
I didn't say to myself , Now I will never see him , or Now I will never shake him by the hand , but , Now I will never hear him . 
The man presented himself as a voice . 
Not of course that I did not connect him with some sort of action . 
The other shoe went flying unto the devil god of that river . 
I thought , By Jove ! it's all over . 
We are too late he has vanished the gift has vanished , by means of some spear , arrow , or club . 
I couldn't have felt more of lonely desolation somehow , had I been robbed of a belief or had missed my destiny in life . 
Why do you sigh in this beastly way , somebody ? Absurd ? Well , absurd . 
Good Lord ! mustn't a man ever Here , give me some tobacco . 
This is the worst of trying to tell . 
I am , upon the whole , proud of my fortitude . 
I was cut to the quick at the idea of having lost the inestimable privilege of listening to the gifted Kurtz . 
Of course I was wrong . 
The privilege was waiting for me . 
Oh , yes , I heard more than enough . 
And I was right , too . 
He was very little more than a voice . 
Voices , voices even the girl herself now He was silent for a long time . 
I laid the ghost of his gifts at last with a lie , he began , suddenly . 
Girl ! What ? Did I mention a girl ? Oh , she is out of it completely . 
They the women , I mean are out of it should be out of it . 
We must help them to stay in that beautiful world of their own , lest ours gets worse . 
Oh , she had to be out of it . 
You should have heard the disinterred body of Mr. Kurtz saying , My Intended . 
You would have perceived directly then how completely she was out of it . 
And the lofty frontal bone of Mr. Kurtz ! They say the hair goes on growing sometimes , but this ah specimen , was impressively bald . 
He was its spoiled and pampered favourite . 
Ivory ? I should think so . 
Heaps of it , stacks of it . 
The old mud shanty was bursting with it . 
You would think there was not a single tusk left either above or below the ground in the whole country . 
Mostly fossil , the manager had remarked , disparagingly . 
It was no more fossil than I am but they call it fossil when it is dug up . 
It appears these niggers do bury the tusks sometimes but evidently they couldn't bury this parcel deep enough to save the gifted Mr. Kurtz from his fate . 
We filled the steamboat with it , and had to pile a lot on the deck . 
Thus he could see and enjoy as long as he could see , because the appreciation of this favour had remained with him to the last . 
You should have heard him say , My ivory . 
Oh , yes , I heard him . 
My Intended , my ivory , my station , my river , my everything belonged to him . 
It made me hold my breath in expectation of hearing the wilderness burst into a prodigious peal of laughter that would shake the fixed stars in their places . 
Everything belonged to him but that was a trifle . 
The thing was to know what he belonged to , how many powers of darkness claimed him for their own . 
That was the reflection that made you creepy all over . 
It was impossible it was not good for one either trying to imagine . 
He had taken a high seat amongst the devils of the land I mean literally . 
When they are gone you must fall back upon your own innate strength , upon your own capacity for faithfulness . 
Of course you may be too much of a fool to go wrong too dull even to know you are being assaulted by the powers of darkness . 
Or you may be such a thunderingly exalted creature as to be altogether deaf and blind to anything but heavenly sights and sounds . 
Then the earth for you is only a standing place and whether to be like this is your loss or your gain I won't pretend to say . 
But most of us are neither one nor the other . 
Mind , I am not trying to excuse or even explain I am trying to account to myself for for Mr. Kurtz for the shade of Mr. Kurtz . 
This initiated wraith from the back of Nowhere honoured me with its amazing confidence before it vanished altogether . 
This was because it could speak English to me . 
The original Kurtz had been educated partly in England , and as he was good enough to say himself his sympathies were in the right place . 
His mother was half English , his father was half French . 
And he had written it , too . 
It was eloquent , vibrating with eloquence , but too high strung , I think . 
But it was a beautiful piece of writing . 
The opening paragraph , however , in the light of later information , strikes me now as ominous . 
By the simple exercise of our will we can exert a power for good practically unbounded , etc . 
From that point he soared and took me with him . 
The peroration was magnificent , though difficult to remember , you know . 
It gave me the notion of an exotic Immensity ruled by an august Benevolence . 
It made me tingle with enthusiasm . 
This was the unbounded power of eloquence of words of burning noble words . 
, as it was sure to have in the future a good influence upon his career . 
I had full information about all these things , and , besides , as it turned out , I was to have the care of his memory . 
But then , you see , I can't choose . 
Whatever he was , he was not common . 
No I can't forget him , though I am not prepared to affirm the fellow was exactly worth the life we lost in getting to him . 
I missed my late helmsman awfully I missed him even while his body was still lying in the pilot house . 
Perhaps you will think it passing strange this regret for a savage who was no more account than a grain of sand in a black Sahara . 
Well , don't you see , he had done something , he had steered for months I had him at my back a help an instrument . 
It was a kind of partnership . 
And the intimate profundity of that look he gave me when he received his hurt remains to this day in my memory like a claim of distant kinship affirmed in a supreme moment . 
Poor fool ! If he had only left that shutter alone . 
He had no restraint , no restraint just like Kurtz a tree swayed by the wind . 
His heels leaped together over the little doorstep his shoulders were pressed to my breast I hugged him from behind desperately . 
Oh ! he was heavy , heavy heavier than any man on earth , I should imagine . 
Then without more ado I tipped him overboard . 
The current snatched him as though he had been a wisp of grass , and I saw the body roll over twice before I lost sight of it for ever . 
What they wanted to keep that body hanging about for I can't guess . 
But I had also heard another , and a very ominous , murmur on the deck below . 
My friends the wood cutters were likewise scandalized , and with a better show of reason though I admit that the reason itself was quite inadmissible . 
Oh , quite ! I had made up my mind that if my late helmsman was to be eaten , the fishes alone should have him . 
He had been a very second rate helmsman while alive , but now he was dead he might have become a first class temptation , and possibly cause some startling trouble . 
Besides , I was anxious to take the wheel , the man in pink pyjamas showing himself a hopeless duffer at the business . 
This I did directly the simple funeral was over . 
We were going half speed , keeping right in the middle of the stream , and I listened to the talk about me . 
They had given up Kurtz , they had given up the station Kurtz was dead , and the station had been burnt and so on and so on . 
The red haired pilgrim was beside himself with the thought that at least this poor Kurtz had been properly avenged . 
Say ! We must have made a glorious slaughter of them in the bush . 
Eh ? What do you think ? Say ? He positively danced , the bloodthirsty little gingery beggar . 
And he had nearly fainted when he saw the wounded man ! I could not help saying , You made a glorious lot of smoke , anyhow . 
I had seen , from the way the tops of the bushes rustled and flew , that almost all the shots had gone too high . 
You can't hit anything unless you take aim and fire from the shoulder but these chaps fired from the hip with their eyes shut . 
The retreat , I maintained and I was right was caused by the screeching of the steam whistle . 
Upon this they forgot Kurtz , and began to howl at me with indignant protests . 
What's this ? I asked . 
He clapped his hands in wonder . 
The station ! he cried . 
I edged in at once , still going half speed . 
Through my glasses I saw the slope of a hill interspersed with rare trees and perfectly free from undergrowth . 
A long decaying building on the summit was half buried in the high grass the large holes in the peaked roof gaped black from afar the jungle and the woods made a background . 
The rails , or whatever there had been between , had disappeared . 
Of course the forest surrounded all that . 
The river bank was clear , and on the waterside I saw a white man under a hat like a cart wheel beckoning persistently with his whole arm . 
Examining the edge of the forest above and below , I was almost certain I could see movements human forms gliding here and there . 
I steamed past prudently , then stopped the engines and let her drift down . 
The man on the shore began to shout , urging us to land . 
We have been attacked , screamed the manager . 
It's all right , yelled back the other , as cheerful as you please . 
His aspect reminded me of something I had seen something funny I had seen somewhere . 
As I manoeuvred to get alongside , I was asking myself , What does this fellow look like ? Suddenly I got it . 
He looked like a harlequin . 
Look out , captain ! he cried there's a snag lodged in here last night . 
What ! Another snag ? I confess I swore shamefully . 
I had nearly holed my cripple , to finish off that charming trip . 
The harlequin on the bank turned his little pug nose up to me . 
You English ? he asked , all smiles . 
Are you ? I shouted from the wheel . 
The smiles vanished , and he shook his head as if sorry for my disappointment . 
Never mind ! he cried encouragingly . 
Are we in time ? I asked . 
He is up there , he replied , with a toss of the head up the hill , and becoming gloomy all of a sudden . 
His face was like the autumn sky , overcast one moment and bright the next . 
When the manager , escorted by the pilgrims , all of them armed to the teeth , had gone to the house this chap came on board . 
I say , I don't like this . 
These natives are in the bush , I said . 
He assured me earnestly it was all right . 
They are simple people , he added well , I am glad you came . 
It took me all my time to keep them off . 
But you said it was all right , I cried . 
Oh , they meant no harm , he said and as I stared he corrected himself , Not exactly . 
One good screech will do more for you than all your rifles . 
They are simple people , he repeated . 
He rattled away at such a rate he quite overwhelmed me . 
He seemed to be trying to make up for lots of silence , and actually hinted , laughing , that such was the case . 
Don't you talk with Mr. Kurtz ? I said . 
You don't talk with that man you listen to him , he exclaimed with severe exaltation . 
But now He waved his arm , and in the twinkling of an eye was in the uttermost depths of despondency . 
In a moment he came up again with a jump , possessed himself of both my hands , shook them continuously , while he gabbled Brother sailor . 
son of an arch priest . 
What ? Tobacco ! English tobacco the excellent English tobacco ! Now , that's brotherly . 
He made a point of that . 
But when one is young one must see things , gather experience , ideas enlarge the mind . 
You can never tell ! Here I met Mr. Kurtz , he said , youthfully solemn and reproachful . 
I held my tongue after that . 
He had been wandering about that river for nearly two years alone , cut off from everybody and everything . 
I am not so young as I look . 
I am twenty five , he said . 
Good old Dutchman , Van Shuyten . 
I've sent him one small lot of ivory a year ago , so that he can't call me a little thief when I get back . 
I hope he got it . 
And for the rest I don't care . 
I had some wood stacked for you . 
That was my old house . 
Did you see ? I gave him Towson's book . 
He made as though he would kiss me , but restrained himself . 
The only book I had left , and I thought I had lost it , he said , looking at it ecstatically . 
So many accidents happen to a man going about alone , you know . 
Canoes get upset sometimes and sometimes you've got to clear out so quick when the people get angry . 
You made notes in Russian ? I asked . 
I thought they were written in cipher , I said . 
He laughed , then became serious . 
I had lots of trouble to keep these people off , he said . 
Did they want to kill you ? I asked . 
Oh , no ! he cried , and checked himself . 
Why did they attack us ? I pursued . 
He hesitated , then said shamefacedly , They don't want him to go . 
Don't they ? I said curiously . 
He nodded a nod full of mystery and wisdom . 
I tell you , he cried , this man has enlarged my mind . 
He opened his arms wide , staring at me with his little blue eyes that were perfectly round . 
III I looked at him , lost in astonishment . 
There he was before me , in motley , as though he had absconded from a troupe of mimes , enthusiastic , fabulous . 
His very existence was improbable , inexplicable , and altogether bewildering . 
He was an insoluble problem . 
It was inconceivable how he had existed , how he had succeeded in getting so far , how he had managed to remain why he did not instantly disappear . 
I went a little farther , he said , then still a little farther till I had gone so far that I don't know how I'll ever get back . 
You take Kurtz away quick quick I tell you . 
The glamour of youth enveloped his parti coloured rags , his destitution , his loneliness , the essential desolation of his futile wanderings . 
I was seduced into something like admiration like envy . 
Glamour urged him on , glamour kept him unscathed . 
He surely wanted nothing from the wilderness but space to breathe in and to push on through . 
His need was to exist , and to move onwards at the greatest possible risk , and with a maximum of privation . 
If the absolutely pure , uncalculating , unpractical spirit of adventure had ever ruled a human being , it ruled this bepatched youth . 
I almost envied him the possession of this modest and clear flame . 
I did not envy him his devotion to Kurtz , though . 
He had not meditated over it . 
It came to him , and he accepted it with a sort of eager fatalism . 
I must say that to me it appeared about the most dangerous thing in every way he had come upon so far . 
They had come together unavoidably , like two ships becalmed near each other , and lay rubbing sides at last . 
I suppose Kurtz wanted an audience , because on a certain occasion , when encamped in the forest , they had talked all night , or more probably Kurtz had talked . 
We talked of everything , he said , quite transported at the recollection . 
I forgot there was such a thing as sleep . 
The night did not seem to last an hour . 
Ah , he talked to you of love ! I said , much amused . 
It isn't what you think , he cried , almost passionately . 
He made me see things things . 
He threw his arms up . 
We were on deck at the time , and the headman of my wood cutters , lounging near by , turned upon him his heavy and glittering eyes . 
And , ever since , you have been with him , of course ? I said . 
It appears their intercourse had been very much broken by various causes . 
, but as a rule Kurtz wandered alone , far in the depths of the forest . 
Very often coming to this station , I had to wait days and days before he would turn up , he said . 
Ah , it was worth waiting for ! sometimes . 
What was he doing ? exploring or what ? I asked . 
But he had no goods to trade with by that time , I objected . 
There's a good lot of cartridges left even yet , he answered , looking away . 
To speak plainly , he raided the country , I said . 
Not alone , surely ! He muttered something about the villages round that lake . 
Kurtz got the tribe to follow him , did he ? I suggested . 
They adored him , he said . 
The tone of these words was so extraordinary that I looked at him searchingly . 
It was curious to see his mingled eagerness and reluctance to speak of Kurtz . 
The man filled his life , occupied his thoughts , swayed his emotions . 
What can you expect ? he burst out he came to them with thunder and lightning , you know and they had never seen anything like it and very terrible . 
He could be very terrible . 
You can't judge Mr. Kurtz as you would an ordinary man . 
Shoot you ! I cried What for ? Well , I had a small lot of ivory the chief of that village near my house gave me . 
You see I used to shoot game for them . 
Well , he wanted it , and wouldn't hear reason . 
And it was true , too . 
I gave him the ivory . 
What did I care ! But I didn't clear out . 
I had to be careful , of course , till we got friendly again for a time . 
He had his second illness then . 
Afterwards I had to keep out of the way but I didn't mind . 
He was living for the most part in those villages on the lake . 
When he came down to the river , sometimes he would take to me , and sometimes it was better for me to be careful . 
This man suffered too much . 
He hated all this , and somehow he couldn't get away . 
When I had a chance I begged him to try and leave while there was time I offered to go back with him . 
And he would say yes , and then he would remain go off on another ivory hunt disappear for weeks forget himself amongst these people forget himself you know . 
Why ! he's mad , I said . 
Mr. Kurtz couldn't be mad . 
If I had heard him talk , only two days ago , I wouldn't dare hint at such a thing . 
I had taken up my binoculars while we talked , and was looking at the shore , sweeping the limit of the forest at each side and at the back of the house . 
The consciousness of there being people in that bush , so silent , so quiet as silent and quiet as the ruined house on the hill made me uneasy . 
The woods were unmoved , like a mask heavy , like the closed door of a prison they looked with their air of hidden knowledge , of patient expectation , of unapproachable silence . 
The Russian was explaining to me that it was only lately that Mr. Kurtz had come down to the river , bringing along with him all the fighting men of that lake tribe . 
Evidently the appetite for more ivory had got the better of the what shall I say ? less material aspirations . 
However he had got much worse suddenly . 
I heard he was lying helpless , and so I came up took my chance , said the Russian . 
Oh , he is bad , very bad . 
I directed my glass to the house . 
And then I made a brusque movement , and one of the remaining posts of that vanished fence leaped up in the field of my glass . 
You remember I told you I had been struck at the distance by certain attempts at ornamentation , rather remarkable in the ruinous aspect of the place . 
Now I had suddenly a nearer view , and its first result was to make me throw my head back as if before a blow . 
Then I went carefully from post to post with my glass , and I saw my mistake . 
They would have been even more impressive , those heads on the stakes , if their faces had not been turned to the house . 
Only one , the first I had made out , was facing my way . 
I was not so shocked as you may think . 
The start back I had given was really nothing but a movement of surprise . 
I had expected to see a knob of wood there , you know . 
I am not disclosing any trade secrets . 
In fact , the manager said afterwards that Mr. Kurtz's methods had ruined the district . 
I have no opinion on that point , but I want you clearly to understand that there was nothing exactly profitable in these heads being there . 
Whether he knew of this deficiency himself I can't say . 
I think the knowledge came to him at last only at the very last . 
But the wilderness had found him out early , and had taken on him a terrible vengeance for the fantastic invasion . 
It echoed loudly within him because he was hollow at the core . 
I put down the glass , and the head that had appeared near enough to be spoken to seemed at once to have leaped away from me into inaccessible distance . 
The admirer of Mr. Kurtz was a bit crestfallen . 
In a hurried , indistinct voice he began to assure me he had not dared to take these say , symbols down . 
He was not afraid of the natives they would not stir till Mr. Kurtz gave the word . 
The camps of these people surrounded the place , and the chiefs came every day to see him . 
I don't want to know anything of the ceremonies used when approaching Mr. Kurtz , I shouted . 
Curious , this feeling that came over me that such details would be more intolerable than those heads drying on the stakes under Mr. Kurtz's windows . 
The young man looked at me with surprise . 
I suppose it did not occur to him that Mr. Kurtz was no idol of mine . 
He forgot I hadn't heard any of these splendid monologues on , what was it ? on love , justice , conduct of life or what not . 
If it had come to crawling before Mr. Kurtz , he crawled as much as the veriest savage of them all . 
I had no idea of the conditions , he said these heads were the heads of rebels . 
I shocked him excessively by laughing . 
Rebels ! What would be the next definition I was to hear ? There had been enemies , criminals , workers and these were rebels . 
Those rebellious heads looked very subdued to me on their sticks . 
You don't know how such a life tries a man like Kurtz , cried Kurtz's last disciple . 
Well , and you ? I said . 
I ! I ! I am a simple man . 
I have no great thoughts . 
I want nothing from anybody . 
How can you compare me to . 
? His feelings were too much for speech , and suddenly he broke down . 
I don't understand , he groaned . 
I've been doing my best to keep him alive , and that's enough . 
I had no hand in all this . 
There hasn't been a drop of medicine or a mouthful of invalid food for months here . 
A man like this , with such ideas . 
Shamefully ! Shamefully ! I I haven't slept for the last ten nights . 
His voice lost itself in the calm of the evening . 
The long shadows of the forest had slipped downhill while we talked , had gone far beyond the ruined hovel , beyond the symbolic row of stakes . 
Not a living soul was seen on the shore . 
The bushes did not rustle . 
Suddenly round the corner of the house a group of men appeared , as though they had come up from the ground . 
They waded waist deep in the grass , in a compact body , bearing an improvised stretcher in their midst . 
The bushes shook , the grass swayed for a time , and then everything stood still in attentive immobility . 
Now , if he does not say the right thing to them we are all done for , said the Russian at my elbow . 
The knot of men with the stretcher had stopped , too , halfway to the steamer , as if petrified . 
I saw the man on the stretcher sit up , lank and with an uplifted arm , above the shoulders of the bearers . 
Let us hope that the man who can talk so well of love in general will find some particular reason to spare us this time , I said . 
I resented bitterly the absurd danger of our situation , as if to be at the mercy of that atrocious phantom had been a dishonouring necessity . 
Kurtz Kurtz that means short in German don't it ? Well , the name was as true as everything else in his life and death . 
He looked at least seven feet long . 
His covering had fallen off , and his body emerged from it pitiful and appalling as from a winding sheet . 
I could see the cage of his ribs all astir , the bones of his arm waving . 
It was as though an animated image of death carved out of old ivory had been shaking its hand with menaces at a motionless crowd of men made of dark and glittering bronze . 
A deep voice reached me faintly . 
He must have been shouting . 
Some of the pilgrims behind the stretcher carried his arms two shot guns , a heavy rifle , and a light revolver carbine the thunderbolts of that pitiful Jupiter . 
The manager bent over him murmuring as he walked beside his head . 
They laid him down in one of the little cabins just a room for a bed place and a camp stool or two , you know . 
We had brought his belated correspondence , and a lot of torn envelopes and open letters littered his bed . 
His hand roamed feebly amongst these papers . 
I was struck by the fire of his eyes and the composed languor of his expression . 
It was not so much the exhaustion of disease . 
He did not seem in pain . 
This shadow looked satiated and calm , as though for the moment it had had its fill of all the emotions . 
He rustled one of the letters , and looking straight in my face said , I am glad . 
Somebody had been writing to him about me . 
These special recommendations were turning up again . 
The volume of tone he emitted without effort , almost without the trouble of moving his lips , amazed me . 
A voice ! a voice ! It was grave , profound , vibrating , while the man did not seem capable of a whisper . 
However , he had enough strength in him factitious no doubt to very nearly make an end of us , as you shall hear directly . 
The manager appeared silently in the doorway I stepped out at once and he drew the curtain after me . 
The Russian , eyed curiously by the pilgrims , was staring at the shore . 
I followed the direction of his glance . 
And from right to left along the lighted shore moved a wild and gorgeous apparition of a woman . 
She walked with measured steps , draped in striped and fringed cloths , treading the earth proudly , with a slight jingle and flash of barbarous ornaments . 
She must have had the value of several elephant tusks upon her . 
She was savage and superb , wild eyed and magnificent there was something ominous and stately in her deliberate progress . 
She came abreast of the steamer , stood still , and faced us . 
Her long shadow fell to the water's edge . 
Her face had a tragic and fierce aspect of wild sorrow and of dumb pain mingled with the fear of some struggling , half shaped resolve . 
She stood looking at us without a stir , and like the wilderness itself , with an air of brooding over an inscrutable purpose . 
A whole minute passed , and then she made a step forward . 
There was a low jingle , a glint of yellow metal , a sway of fringed draperies , and she stopped as if her heart had failed her . 
The young fellow by my side growled . 
The pilgrims murmured at my back . 
She looked at us all as if her life had depended upon the unswerving steadiness of her glance . 
A formidable silence hung over the scene . 
She turned away slowly , walked on , following the bank , and passed into the bushes to the left . 
Once only her eyes gleamed back at us in the dusk of the thickets before she disappeared . 
If she had offered to come aboard I really think I would have tried to shoot her , said the man of patches , nervously . 
I have been risking my life every day for the last fortnight to keep her out of the house . 
She got in one day and kicked up a row about those miserable rags I picked up in the storeroom to mend my clothes with . 
At least it must have been that , for she talked like a fury to Kurtz for an hour , pointing at me now and then . 
I don't understand the dialect of this tribe . 
Luckily for me , I fancy Kurtz felt too ill that day to care , or there would have been mischief . 
No it's too much for me . 
Ah , well , it's all over now . 
At this moment I heard Kurtz's deep voice behind the curtain Save me ! save the ivory , you mean . 
Save ME ! Why , I've had to save you . 
You are interrupting my plans now . 
Sick ! Sick ! Not so sick as you would like to believe . 
I'll carry my ideas out yet I will return . 
I'll show you what can be done . 
You with your little peddling notions you are interfering with me . 
He did me the honour to take me under the arm and lead me aside . 
He is very low , very low , he said . 
He considered it necessary to sigh , but neglected to be consistently sorrowful . 
We have done all we could for him haven't we ? But there is no disguising the fact , Mr. Kurtz has done more harm than good to the Company . 
He did not see the time was not ripe for vigorous action . 
Cautiously , cautiously that's my principle . 
We must be cautious yet . 
The district is closed to us for a time . 
Deplorable ! Upon the whole , the trade will suffer . 
I don't deny there is a remarkable quantity of ivory mostly fossil . 
We must save it , at all events but look how precarious the position is and why ? Because the method is unsound . 
Do you , said I , looking at the shore , call it unsound method ? Without doubt , he exclaimed hotly . 
No method at all , I murmured after a while . 
Shows a complete want of judgment . 
It is my duty to point it out in the proper quarter . 
Oh , said I , that fellow what's his name ? the brickmaker , will make a readable report for you . 
He appeared confounded for a moment . 
It seemed to me I had never breathed an atmosphere so vile , and I turned mentally to Kurtz for relief positively for relief . 
Nevertheless I think Mr. Kurtz is a remarkable man , I said with emphasis . 
He started , dropped on me a heavy glance , said very quietly , he WAS , and turned his back on me . 
I had turned to the wilderness really , not to Mr. Kurtz , who , I was ready to admit , was as good as buried . 
And for a moment it seemed to me as if I also were buried in a vast grave full of unspeakable secrets . 
I felt an intolerable weight oppressing my breast , the smell of the damp earth , the unseen presence of victorious corruption , the darkness of an impenetrable night . 
The Russian tapped me on the shoulder . 
I heard him mumbling and stammering something about brother seaman couldn't conceal knowledge of matters that would affect Mr. Kurtz's reputation . 
For him evidently Mr. Kurtz was not in his grave I suspect that for him Mr. Kurtz was one of the immortals . 
Well ! said I at last , speak out . 
As it happens , I am Mr. Kurtz's friend in a way . 
He stated with a good deal of formality that had we not been of the same profession , he would have kept the matter to himself without regard to consequences . 
He suspected there was an active ill will towards him on the part of these white men that You are right , I said , remembering a certain conversation I had overheard . 
The manager thinks you ought to be hanged . 
He showed a concern at this intelligence which amused me at first . 
I had better get out of the way quietly , he said earnestly . 
I can do no more for Kurtz now , and they would soon find some excuse . 
What's to stop them ? There's a military post three hundred miles from here . 
Well , upon my word , said I , perhaps you had better go if you have any friends amongst the savages near by . 
They are simple people and I want nothing , you know . 
Mr. Kurtz's reputation is safe with me . 
I did not know how truly I spoke . 
He informed me , lowering his voice , that it was Kurtz who had ordered the attack to be made on the steamer . 
He hated sometimes the idea of being taken away and then again . 
But I don't understand these matters . 
I am a simple man . 
He thought it would scare you away that you would give it up , thinking him dead . 
I could not stop him . 
Oh , I had an awful time of it this last month . 
Very well , I said . 
He is all right now . 
Ye e es , he muttered , not very convinced apparently . 
Thanks , said I I shall keep my eyes open . 
But quiet eh ? he urged anxiously . 
It would be awful for his reputation if anybody here I promised a complete discretion with great gravity . 
I have a canoe and three black fellows waiting not very far . 
Could you give me a few Martini Henry cartridges ? I could , and did , with proper secrecy . 
He helped himself , with a wink at me , to a handful of my tobacco . 
Between sailors you know good English tobacco . 
At the door of the pilot house he turned round I say , haven't you a pair of shoes you could spare ? He raised one leg . 
The soles were tied with knotted strings sandalwise under his bare feet . 
I rooted out an old pair , at which he looked with admiration before tucking it under his left arm . 
was bulging with cartridges , from the other peeped Towson's Inquiry , etc . 
He seemed to think himself excellently well equipped for a renewed encounter with the wilderness . 
Ah ! I'll never , never meet such a man again . 
You ought to have heard him recite poetry his own , too , it was , he told me . 
Poetry ! He rolled his eyes at the recollection of these delights . 
Oh , he enlarged my mind ! Good bye , said I. He shook hands and vanished in the night . 
Sometimes I ask myself whether I had ever really seen him whether it was possible to meet such a phenomenon ! . 
On the hill a big fire burned , illuminating fitfully a crooked corner of the station house . 
The monotonous beating of a big drum filled the air with muffled shocks and a lingering vibration . 
It was cut short all at once , and the low droning went on with an effect of audible and soothing silence . 
I glanced casually into the little cabin . 
A light was burning within , but Mr. Kurtz was not there . 
I think I would have raised an outcry if I had believed my eyes . 
But I didn't believe them at first the thing seemed so impossible . 
The fact is I was completely unnerved by a sheer blank fright , pure abstract terror , unconnected with any distinct shape of physical danger . 
It pacified me , in fact , so much that I did not raise an alarm . 
There was an agent buttoned up inside an ulster and sleeping on a chair on deck within three feet of me . 
The yells had not awakened him he snored very slightly I left him to his slumbers and leaped ashore . 
I did not betray Mr. Kurtz it was ordered I should never betray him it was written I should be loyal to the nightmare of my choice . 
As soon as I got on the bank I saw a trail a broad trail through the grass . 
I remember the exultation with which I said to myself , He can't walk he is crawling on all fours I've got him . 
The grass was wet with dew . 
I strode rapidly with clenched fists . 
I fancy I had some vague notion of falling upon him and giving him a drubbing . 
I had some imbecile thoughts . 
The knitting old woman with the cat obtruded herself upon my memory as a most improper person to be sitting at the other end of such an affair . 
I saw a row of pilgrims squirting lead in the air out of Winchesters held to the hip . 
I thought I would never get back to the steamer , and imagined myself living alone and unarmed in the woods to an advanced age . 
Such silly things you know . 
And I remember I confounded the beat of the drum with the beating of my heart , and was pleased at its calm regularity . 
I kept to the track though then stopped to listen . 
The night was very clear a dark blue space , sparkling with dew and starlight , in which black things stood very still . 
I thought I could see a kind of motion ahead of me . 
I was strangely cocksure of everything that night . 
so as to get in front of that stir , of that motion I had seen if indeed I had seen anything . 
I was circumventing Kurtz as though it had been a boyish game . 
I came upon him , and , if he had not heard me coming , I would have fallen over him , too , but he got up in time . 
I had cut him off cleverly but when actually confronting him I seemed to come to my senses , I saw the danger in its right proportion . 
It was by no means over yet . 
Suppose he began to shout ? Though he could hardly stand , there was still plenty of vigour in his voice . 
Go away hide yourself , he said , in that profound tone . 
We were within thirty yards from the nearest fire . 
A black figure stood up , strode on long black legs , waving long black arms , across the glow . 
It had horns antelope horns , I think on its head . 
Some sorcerer , some witch man , no doubt it looked fiendlike enough . 
Do you know what you are doing ? I whispered . 
Perfectly , he answered , raising his voice for that single word it sounded to me far off and yet loud , like a hail through a speaking trumpet . 
If he makes a row we are lost , I thought to myself . 
This clearly was not a case for fisticuffs , even apart from the very natural aversion I had to beat that Shadow this wandering and tormented thing . 
You will be lost , I said 'utterly lost . 
One gets sometimes such a flash of inspiration , you know . 
I had immense plans , he muttered irresolutely . 
Yes , said I but if you try to shout I'll smash your head with There was not a stick or a stone near . 
I will throttle you for good , I corrected myself . 
I was on the threshold of great things , he pleaded , in a voice of longing , with a wistfulness of tone that made my blood run cold . 
And now for this stupid scoundrel Your success in Europe is assured in any case , I affirmed steadily . 
I did not want to have the throttling of him , you understand and indeed it would have been very little use for any practical purpose . 
I had , even like the niggers , to invoke him himself his own exalted and incredible degradation . 
There was nothing either above or below him , and I knew it . 
He had kicked himself loose of the earth . 
Confound the man ! he had kicked the very earth to pieces . 
He was alone , and I before him did not know whether I stood on the ground or floated in the air . 
But what of that ? They had behind them , to my mind , the terrific suggestiveness of words heard in dreams , of phrases spoken in nightmares . 
Soul ! If anybody ever struggled with a soul , I am the man . 
And I wasn't arguing with a lunatic either . 
But his soul was mad . 
Being alone in the wilderness , it had looked within itself , and , by heavens ! I tell you , it had gone mad . 
I had for my sins , I suppose to go through the ordeal of looking into it myself . 
No eloquence could have been so withering to one's belief in mankind as his final burst of sincerity . 
He struggled with himself , too . 
I saw it I heard it . 
I saw the inconceivable mystery of a soul that knew no restraint , no faith , and no fear , yet struggling blindly with itself . 
And yet I had only supported him , his bony arm clasped round my neck and he was not much heavier than a child . 
In front of the first rank , along the river , three men , plastered with bright red earth from head to foot , strutted to and fro restlessly . 
We had carried Kurtz into the pilot house there was more air there . 
Lying on the couch , he stared through the open shutter . 
There was an eddy in the mass of human bodies , and the woman with helmeted head and tawny cheeks rushed out to the very brink of the stream . 
She put out her hands , shouted something , and all that wild mob took up the shout in a roaring chorus of articulated , rapid , breathless utterance . 
Do you understand this ? I asked . 
He kept on looking out past me with fiery , longing eyes , with a mingled expression of wistfulness and hate . 
He made no answer , but I saw a smile , a smile of indefinable meaning , appear on his colourless lips that a moment after twitched convulsively . 
Do I not ? he said slowly , gasping , as if the words had been torn out of him by a supernatural power . 
I pulled the string of the whistle , and I did this because I saw the pilgrims on deck getting out their rifles with an air of anticipating a jolly lark . 
At the sudden screech there was a movement of abject terror through that wedged mass of bodies . 
Don't ! don't you frighten them away , cried some one on deck disconsolately . 
I pulled the string time after time . 
They broke and ran , they leaped , they crouched , they swerved , they dodged the flying terror of the sound . 
The three red chaps had fallen flat , face down on the shore , as though they had been shot dead . 
Only the barbarous and superb woman did not so much as flinch , and stretched tragically her bare arms after us over the sombre and glittering river . 
And then that imbecile crowd down on the deck started their little fun , and I could see nothing more for smoke . 
I saw the time approaching when I would be left alone of the party of unsound method . 
The pilgrims looked upon me with disfavour . 
I was , so to speak , numbered with the dead . 
It is strange how I accepted this unforeseen partnership , this choice of nightmares forced upon me in the tenebrous land invaded by these mean and greedy phantoms . 
A voice ! a voice ! It rang deep to the very last . 
It survived his strength to hide in the magnificent folds of eloquence the barren darkness of his heart . 
My Intended , my station , my career , my ideas these were the subjects for the occasional utterances of elevated sentiments . 
The shade of the original Kurtz frequented the bedside of the hollow sham , whose fate it was to be buried presently in the mould of primeval earth . 
Sometimes he was contemptibly childish . 
He desired to have kings meet him at railway stations on his return from some ghastly Nowhere , where he intended to accomplish great things . 
You show them you have in you something that is really profitable , and then there will be no limits to the recognition of your ability , he would say . 
Of course you must take care of the motives right motives always . 
Close the shutter , said Kurtz suddenly one day I can't bear to look at this . 
Oh , but I will wring your heart yet ! he cried at the invisible wilderness . 
We broke down as I had expected and had to lie up for repairs at the head of an island . 
This delay was the first thing that shook Kurtz's confidence . 
One morning he gave me a packet of papers and a photograph the lot tied together with a shoe string . 
Keep this for me , he said . 
is capable of prying into my boxes when I am not looking . 
In the afternoon I saw him . 
He was lying on his back with closed eyes , and I withdrew quietly , but I heard him mutter , Live rightly , die , die . 
His was an impenetrable darkness . 
I looked at him as you peer down at a man who is lying at the bottom of a precipice where the sun never shines . 
I lived in an infernal mess of rust , filings , nuts , bolts , spanners , hammers , ratchet drills things I abominate , because I don't get on with them . 
I tended the little forge we fortunately had aboard I toiled wearily in a wretched scrap heap unless I had the shakes too bad to stand . 
One evening coming in with a candle I was startled to hear him say a little tremulously , I am lying here in the dark waiting for death . 
The light was within a foot of his eyes . 
I forced myself to murmur , Oh , nonsense ! and stood over him as if transfixed . 
Anything approaching the change that came over his features I have never seen before , and hope never to see again . 
Oh , I wasn't touched . 
It was as though a veil had been rent . 
I saw on that ivory face the expression of sombre pride , of ruthless power , of craven terror of an intense and hopeless despair . 
The pilgrims were dining in the mess room , and I took my place opposite the manager , who lifted his eyes to give me a questioning glance , which I successfully ignored . 
He leaned back , serene , with that peculiar smile of his sealing the unexpressed depths of his meanness . 
A continuous shower of small flies streamed upon the lamp , upon the cloth , upon our hands and faces . 
Suddenly the manager's boy put his insolent black head in the doorway , and said in a tone of scathing contempt Mistah Kurtz he dead . 
All the pilgrims rushed out to see . 
I remained , and went on with my dinner . 
I believe I was considered brutally callous . 
However , I did not eat much . 
There was a lamp in there light , don't you know and outside it was so beastly , beastly dark . 
I went no more near the remarkable man who had pronounced a judgment upon the adventures of his soul on this earth . 
What else had been there ? But I am of course aware that next day the pilgrims buried something in a muddy hole . 
And then they very nearly buried me . 
However , as you see , I did not go to join Kurtz there and then . 
I remained to dream the nightmare out to the end , and to show my loyalty to Kurtz once more . 
My destiny ! Droll thing life is that mysterious arrangement of merciless logic for a futile purpose . 
The most you can hope from it is some knowledge of yourself that comes too late a crop of unextinguishable regrets . 
I have wrestled with death . 
It is the most unexciting contest you can imagine . 
If such is the form of ultimate wisdom , then life is a greater riddle than some of us think it to be . 
I was within a hair's breadth of the last opportunity for pronouncement , and I found with humiliation that probably I would have nothing to say . 
This is the reason why I affirm that Kurtz was a remarkable man . 
He had something to say . 
He had summed up he had judged . 
The horror ! He was a remarkable man . 
No ! It is his extremity that I seem to have lived through . 
True , he had made that last stride , he had stepped over the edge , while I had been permitted to draw back my hesitating foot . 
Perhaps ! I like to think my summing up would not have been a word of careless contempt . 
Better his cry much better . 
It was an affirmation , a moral victory paid for by innumerable defeats , by abominable terrors , by abominable satisfactions . 
They trespassed upon my thoughts . 
They were intruders whose knowledge of life was to me an irritating pretence , because I felt so sure they could not possibly know the things I knew . 
I had no particular desire to enlighten them , but I had some difficulty in restraining myself from laughing in their faces so full of stupid importance . 
I dareway I was not very well at that time . 
I tottered about the streets there were various affairs to settle grinning bitterly at perfectly respectable persons . 
I admit my behaviour was inexcusable , but then my temperature was seldom normal in these days . 
My dear aunt's endeavours to nurse up my strength' seemed altogether beside the mark . 
It was not my strength that wanted nursing , it was my imagination that wanted soothing . 
I kept the bundle of papers given me by Kurtz , not knowing exactly what to do with it . 
His mother had died lately , watched over , as I was told , by his Intended . 
I was not surprised , because I had had two rows with the manager on the subject out there . 
I had refused to give up the smallest scrap out of that package , and I took the same attitude with the spectacled man . 
He became darkly menacing at last , and with much heat argued that the Company had the right to every bit of information about its territories . 
He invoked then the name of science . 
It would be an incalculable loss if , etc . 
I offered him the report on the Suppression of Savage Customs , with the postscriptum torn off . 
He took it up eagerly , but ended by sniffing at it with an air of contempt . 
This is not what we had a right to expect , he remarked . 
Expect nothing else , I said . 
There are only private letters . 
Incidentally he gave me to understand that Kurtz had been essentially a great musician . 
There was the making of an immense success , said the man , who was an organist , I believe , with lank grey hair flowing over a greasy coat collar . 
could not tell me what he had been exactly . 
Ultimately a journalist anxious to know something of the fate of his dear colleague' turned up . 
This visitor informed me Kurtz's proper sphere ought to have been politics on the popular side . 
He had faith don't you see ? he had the faith . 
He could get himself to believe anything anything . 
He would have been a splendid leader of an extreme party . 
What party ? I asked . 
Any party , answered the other . 
He was an an extremist . 
Did I not think so ? I assented . 
He glanced through it hurriedly , mumbling all the time , judged it would do , and took himself off with this plunder . 
Thus I was left at last with a slim packet of letters and the girl's portrait . 
She struck me as beautiful I mean she had a beautiful expression . 
She seemed ready to listen without mental reservation , without suspicion , without a thought for herself . 
I concluded I would go and give her back her portrait and those letters myself . 
Curiosity ? Yes and also some other feeling perhaps . 
All that had been Kurtz's had passed out of my hands his soul , his body , his station , his plans , his ivory , his career . 
I had no clear perception of what it was I really wanted . 
Perhaps it was an impulse of unconscious loyalty , or the fulfilment of one of those ironic necessities that lurk in the facts of human existence . 
I remembered his abject pleading , his abject threats , the colossal scale of his vile desires , the meanness , the torment , the tempestuous anguish of his soul . 
And later on I seemed to see his collected languid manner , when he said one day , This lot of ivory now is really mine . 
The Company did not pay for it . 
I collected it myself at a very great personal risk . 
I am afraid they will try to claim it as theirs though . 
It is a difficult case . 
What do you think I ought to do resist ? Eh ? I want no more than justice . 
He wanted no more than justice no more than justice . 
I seemed to hear the whispered cry , The horror ! The horror ! The dusk was falling . 
I had to wait in a lofty drawing room with three long windows from floor to ceiling that were like three luminous and bedraped columns . 
The bent gilt legs and backs of the furniture shone in indistinct curves . 
The tall marble fireplace had a cold and monumental whiteness . 
A grand piano stood massively in a corner with dark gleams on the flat surfaces like a sombre and polished sarcophagus . 
A high door opened closed . 
She came forward , all in black , with a pale head , floating towards me in the dusk . 
It was more than a year since his death , more than a year since the news came she seemed as though she would remember and mourn forever . 
She took both my hands in hers and murmured , I had heard you were coming . 
I noticed she was not very young I mean not girlish . 
She had a mature capacity for fidelity , for belief , for suffering . 
The room seemed to have grown darker , as if all the sad light of the cloudy evening had taken refuge on her forehead . 
This fair hair , this pale visage , this pure brow , seemed surrounded by an ashy halo from which the dark eyes looked out at me . 
Their glance was guileless , profound , confident , and trustful . 
She carried her sorrowful head as though she were proud of that sorrow , as though she would say , I I alone know how to mourn for him as he deserves . 
For her he had died only yesterday . 
And , by Jove ! the impression was so powerful that for me , too , he seemed to have died only yesterday nay , this very minute . 
I saw her and him in the same instant of time his death and her sorrow I saw her sorrow in the very moment of his death . 
Do you understand ? I saw them together I heard them together . 
She motioned me to a chair . 
I laid the packet gently on the little table , and she put her hand over it . 
You knew him well , she murmured , after a moment of mourning silence . 
Intimacy grows quickly out there , I said . 
I knew him as well as it is possible for one man to know another . 
And you admired him , she said . 
It was impossible to know him and not to admire him . 
Was it ? He was a remarkable man , I said , unsteadily . 
How true ! how true ! But when you think that no one knew him so well as I ! I had all his noble confidence . 
You knew him best , I repeated . 
But with every word spoken the room was growing darker , and only her forehead , smooth and white , remained illumined by the inextinguishable light of belief and love . 
You were his friend , she went on . 
His friend , she repeated , a little louder . 
You must have been , if he had given you this , and sent you to me . 
I feel I can speak to you and oh ! I must speak . 
I want you you who have heard his last words to know I have been worthy of him . 
Yes ! I am proud to know I understood him better than any one on earth he told me so himself . 
And since his mother died I have had no one no one to to I listened . 
I was not even sure whether he had given me the right bundle . 
I rather suspect he wanted me to take care of another batch of his papers which , after his death , I saw the manager examining under the lamp . 
And the girl talked , easing her pain in the certitude of my sympathy she talked as thirsty men drink . 
I had heard that her engagement with Kurtz had been disapproved by her people . 
He wasn't rich enough or something . 
And indeed I don't know whether he had not been a pauper all his life . 
He had given me some reason to infer that it was his impatience of comparative poverty that drove him out there . 
Who was not his friend who had heard him speak once ? she was saying . 
He drew men towards him by what was best in them . 
She looked at me with intensity . 
But you have heard him ! You know ! she cried . 
What a loss to me to us ! she corrected herself with beautiful generosity then added in a murmur , To the world . 
By the last gleams of twilight I could see the glitter of her eyes , full of tears of tears that would not fall . 
I have been very happy very fortunate very proud , she went on . 
Too happy for a little while . 
And now I am unhappy for for life . 
She stood up her fair hair seemed to catch all the remaining light in a glimmer of gold . 
You and I We shall always remember him , I said hastily . 
It is impossible that all this should be lost that such a life should be sacrificed to leave nothing but sorrow . 
You know what vast plans he had . 
I knew of them , too I could not perhaps understand but others knew of them . 
His words , at least , have not died . 
His words will remain , I said . 
And his example , she whispered to herself . 
Men looked up to him his goodness shone in every act . 
His example True , I said his example , too . 
I cannot I cannot believe not yet . 
I cannot believe that I shall never see him again , that nobody will see him again , never , never , never . 
She put out her arms as if after a retreating figure , stretching them back and with clasped pale hands across the fading and narrow sheen of the window . 
Never see him ! I saw him clearly enough then . 
She said suddenly very low , He died as he lived . 
His end , said I , with dull anger stirring in me , was in every way worthy of his life . 
And I was not with him , she murmured . 
My anger subsided before a feeling of infinite pity . 
Everything that could be done I mumbled . 
Ah , but I believed in him more than any one on earth more than his own mother , more than himself . 
He needed me ! Me ! I would have treasured every sigh , every word , every sign , every glance . 
I felt like a chill grip on my chest . 
Don't , I said , in a muffled voice . 
I I have mourned so long in silence in silence . 
You were with him to the last ? I think of his loneliness . 
Nobody near to understand him as I would have understood . 
Perhaps no one to hear . 
To the very end , I said , shakily . 
I heard his very last words . 
I stopped in a fright . 
Repeat them , she murmured in a heart broken tone . 
I want I want something something to to live with . 
The horror ! The horror ! His last word to live with , she insisted . 
Don't you understand I loved him I loved him I loved him ! I pulled myself together and spoke slowly . 
The last word he pronounced was your name . 
I heard a light sigh and then my heart stood still , stopped dead short by an exulting and terrible cry , by the cry of inconceivable triumph and of unspeakable pain . 
I knew it I was sure ! . 
I heard her weeping she had hidden her face in her hands . 
It seemed to me that the house would collapse before I could escape , that the heavens would fall upon my head . 
The heavens do not fall for such a trifle . 
Would they have fallen , I wonder , if I had rendered Kurtz that justice which was his due ? Hadn't he said he wanted only justice ? But I couldn't . 
I could not tell her . 
It would have been too dark too dark altogether . 
Marlow ceased , and sat apart , indistinct and silent , in the pose of a meditating Buddha . 
Nobody moved for a time . 
We have lost the first of the ebb , said the Director suddenly . 
