HER FATHER'S DAUGHTER by GENE STRATTON PORTER Contents I. What Kind of Shoes Are the Shoes You Wear ? II . 
Cotyledon of Multiflores Canyon III . 
The House of Dreams IV . 
Linda Starts a Revolution V. The Smoke of Battle VI . 
One Hundred Per Cent Plus X. Katy to the Rescue XI . 
The Lay of the Land XIII . 
Leavening the Bread of Life XIV . 
A Rock and a Flame XVIII . 
The Official Bug Catcher XX . 
The End of Marian's Contest XXIII . 
The Day of Jubilee XXIV . 
The Straight and Narrow XXVIII . 
Putting It Up to Peter XXIX . 
Katy Unburdens Her Mind XXX . 
The End of Donald's Contest XXXII . 
How the Wasp Built Her Nest XXXIII . 
The Lady of the Iris List of Characters LINDA STRONG , Her Father's Daughter DR . 
ALEXANDER STRONG , a Great Nerve Specialist MRS . 
STRONG , His Wife EILEEN STRONG , Having Social Aspirations MR . 
WHITING , a Man of Law and a Woman of Culture KATHERINE O' DONOVAN , the Strong Cook OKA SAYYE , a High School Senior JAMES HEITMAN , Accidentally Rich MRS . 
Then her glance lifted to the face of Donald Whiting , one of the most brilliant and popular seniors of the high school . 
Her eyes narrowed in a manner habitual to her when thinking intently . 
Never you mind my shoes , she said deliberately . 
Kindly fix your attention on my head piece . 
When you see me allowing any Jap in my class to make higher grades than I do , then I give you leave to say anything you please concerning my head . 
An angry red rushed to the boy's face . 
It was an irritating fact that in the senior class of that particular Los Angeles high school a Japanese boy stood at the head . 
This was embarrassing to every senior . 
I say , said Donald Whiting , I call that a mean thrust . 
I have a particular reason , said Linda . 
And I have 'a particular reason' , said Donald , for being interested in your shoes . 
When Linda laughed , which was very seldom , those within hearing turned to look at her . 
Hers was not a laugh that can be achieved . 
How surprising ! exclaimed Linda . 
We have been attending the same school for three years now , you stop me suddenly to tell me that you are interested in the shape of my shoes . 
I have been watching them all the time , said Donald . 
'Can't understand why any girl wants to be so different . 
Why don't you dress your hair the same as the other girls and wear the same kind of clothes and shoes ? Now look here , interposed Linda You are flying the track . 
Does the name 'Alexander Strong' mean anything to you ? The great nerve specialist ? asked Donald . 
The man who was the author of half dozen books that have been translated into many foreign tongue' and are used as authorities all over the world . 
He happened to be my father There are two children in our family . 
I have a sister four years older than I am who is exactly like Mother , and she and Mother were inseparable . 
It never bothered him to have me playing around in the library while he was writing his most complicated treatise . 
I have waited in his car half a day at a time , playing or reading , while he watched a patient or delivered a lecture at some medical college . 
There was not much to know concerning a woman's frame or he psychology that Father did not know , so there were two reason why he selected my footwear as he did . 
No doubt , they are the same kind I shall wear all my life , for walking . 
You probably don't know it , but my home lies near the middle of Lilac Valley and I walk over a mile each morning and evening to and from the cars . 
Does this sufficiently explain my shoes ? I should think you'd feel queer , said Donald . 
I suspect I would if I had time to brood over it , Linda replied , but I haven't . 
I must hustle to get to school on time in the morning . 
It's nearly or quite dark before I reach home in the evening . 
My father believed in having a good time . 
He had superb health , so he spent most of what he made as it came to him . 
He counted on a long life . 
It never occurred to him that a little piece of machinery going wrong would plunge him into Eternity in a second . 
Oh , I remember ! cried the boy . 
Brakes are not all defective , and one must take one's risks . 
You just bet I would , said Donald . 
Motoring is one of the greatest pleasures of modern life . 
What I was getting at , said Linda , was a word of reply to the remainder of your indictment against me . 
Eileen is so much older that it's her turn first , and I must say she is not at all backward about exercising her rights . 
Ah , there's the little 'fly in your ointment' 'dress that would be suitable . 
In the few short years I had with Daddy I acquired a fixed idea as to what kind of dress is suitable and sufficiently durable to wear while walking my daily two miles . 
I can't seem to become reconciled to the custom of dressing the same for school as for a party . 
You get my idea ? I get it all right enough , said Donald , but I must think awhile before I decide whether I agree with you . 
Why should you be right , and hundreds of other girls be wrong ? I'll wager your mother would agree with me , suggested Linda . 
Did yours ? asked Donald . 
She agreed with me for me , but not for Eileen . 
And not for my sister , said Donald . 
For that matter she frequently went to all three the same day . 
And that brings us straight to the point concerning you , said Linda . 
Sure enough ! said Donald . 
There is me to be considered ! What is it you have against me ? Linda looked at him meditatively . 
You SEEM exceptionally strong , she said . 
No doubt are good in athletics . 
Your head looks all right it indicates brains . 
What I want to know is why in the world you don't us them . 
What are you getting at , anyway ? asked Donald , with more than a hint of asperity m his voice . 
You and every other boy in your classes ought to thoroughly ashamed of yourselves . 
It's all very well to talk , said Donald hotly . 
And it's better to make good what you say , broke in Linda , with equal heat . 
There are half a dozen Japs in my classes but no one of them is leading , you will notice , if I do wear peculiar shoes . 
Well , you would be going some if you beat the leading Jap in the senior class , said Donald . 
Then I would go some , said Linda . 
I'd beat him , or I'd go straight up trying . 
You could do it if you'd make up your mind to . 
Bet you are developing nerves smoking cigarettes . 
Oka Sayye is not thinking of a thing except the triumph of proving to California that he is head man in one of the Los Angeles high schools . 
That's what I have got against you , and every other white boy in your class , and in the long run it stacks up bigger than your arraignment of my shoes . 
Oh , darn your shoes ! cried Donald hotly . 
Well , for the Lord's sake ! exclaimed the irate senior . 
You're dying right now to ask why I wear my hair in braids down my back instead of in cootie coops over my ears . 
That is a very nice compliment to my daddy , thank you , said Linda , turning away and proceeding in the direction of her own classrooms . 
By gracious ! She's no fool , he said to himself . 
In three minutes' unpremeditated talk the Junior Freak , as he mentally denominated her , had managed to irritate him , to puncture his pride , to entertain and amuse him . 
I wonder he said as he went his way and all day he kept on wondering , when he was not studying harder than ever before in all his life . 
That night Linda walked slowly along the road toward home . 
What she was thinking was of every flaying , scathing , solidly based argument she could produce the following Saturday to spur Donald Whiting in some way to surpass Oka Sayye . 
In arriving at this decision her mind traveled a number of devious roads . 
The thought that she had been criticized did not annoy her as to the kind of criticism , but she did resent the quality of truth about it . 
Then she began thinking , and decided that the only available place in the house for her use was the billiard room . 
She made up her mind that she would demand the sole right to this big attic room . 
She would sell the table and use the money to buy herself a suitable worktable and a rug . 
She would demand that Eileen produce enough money for better clothing for her , and then she remembered what she had said to Donald Whiting about conquering her horror for a motor car . 
Linda turned in at the walk leading to her home , but she passed the front entrance and followed around to the side . 
Katy , me darlin' , she said , look upon your only child . 
Do you notice a 'lean and hungry look' on her classic features ? Katy turned adoring eyes to the young girl . 
It's growing so fast ye are , childie , she said . 
I'd say there is , said Katy . 
John Gilman is here and two friends of Eileen's . 
It's a near banquet , lassie . 
Then I'll wait , said Linda . 
I want the keys to the garage . 
Linda had shown both temper and determination at the proposal to dismantle the library and dispose of the cars . 
She had told Eileen that she might take the touring car and do as she pleased with it . 
For her share she wanted her father's roadster , and she meant to have it . 
She took the same firm stand concerning the Library . 
With the rest of the house Eileen might do as she would . 
The library was to remain absolutely untouched and what it contained was Linda's . 
To this Eileen had agreed , but so far Linda had been content merely to possess her property . 
They had simply by mutual agreement begun using the street cars when they wanted to reach the city . 
Linda stood looking at the roadster , jacked up and tucked under a heavy canvas tent that she and her father had used on their hunting and fishing trips . 
After a long time she laid strong hands on the canvas and dragged it to one side . 
She looked the car over carefully and then , her face very white and her hands trembling , she climbed into it and slowly and mechanically went through the motions of starting it . 
For another intent period she sat with her hands on the steering gear , staring straight ahead , and then she said slowly Something has got to be done . 
It's not going to be very agreeable , but I am going to do it . 
Eileen has had things all her own way long enough . 
I am getting such a big girl I ought to have a few things in my life as I want them . 
Then Linda proceeded to do something . 
What she did was to lean forward , rest her head upon the steering wheel and fight to keep down deep , pitiful sobbing until her whole slender body twisted in the effort . 
She was yielding to a breaking up after four years of endurance , for the greater part in silence . 
Without a doubt the culmination had resulted from her few minutes' talk with Donald Whiting in the hall that morning . 
It had started Linda to thinking deeply , and the more deeply she thought the clearly she saw the situation . 
Linda was a loyal soul and her heart was honest . 
That point was where things ceased to be fair or to be just . 
If there had been money to do no more for Eileen than had been done for Linda , it would not have been in Linda's heart to utter a complaint . 
Once rebellion burned in her heart the flames leaped rapidly , and Linda began to remember a thousand small things that she had scarcely noted at the time of their occurrence . 
She was leaning on the steering wheel , tired with nerve strain , when she heard Katy calling her , and realized that she was needed in the kitchen . 
She ran her fingers over the steering wheel , worn bright by the touch of her father's and her own hands , and with the buoyancy of youth , found comfort . 
Once more she mechanically went through the motions of starting the car , then she stepped down , closed the door , and stood an instant thinking . 
You're four years behind the times , she said slowly . 
I can do it all right . 
I have got to do it , but it will be some time before I'll care to tackle the mountains . 
Leaving the cover on the floor , she locked the door and returned to the kitchen . 
All right , Katy , what is the programme ? she inquired as lightly as she could . 
Katy had been cook in the Strong family ever since they had moved to Lilac Valley . 
She had obeyed Mrs. Strong and Eileen . 
Well , said Linda deliberately , we won't waste any time on thinking We are going to have some positive knowledge on the subject pretty immediately . 
I don't feel equal to starting any domestic santana today , but the forces are gathering and the blow is coming soon . 
To that I have firmly made up my mind . 
It's not the least mite I'm blaming you , honey , said Katy . 
Ye've got to be such a big girl that it's only fair things in this house should go a good deal different . 
Is Marian to be here ? asked Linda as she stood beside the stove peering into pans and kettles . 
Miss Eileen didn't say , replied Katy . 
She slammed down a lid with vicious emphasis . 
That is another deal Eileen's engineered , she said , that is just about as wrong as anything possibly can be . 
What makes me the maddest about it is that John Gilman will let Eileen take him by the nose and lead him around like a ringed calf . 
Where is his common sense ? Where is his perception ? Where is his honor ? Now wait , dearie , said Katy soothingly , wait . 
John Gilman is a mighty fine man . 
Ye know how your father loved him and trusted him and gave him charge of all his business affairs . 
Ye mustn't go so far as to be insinuating that he is lacking in honor . 
No , said Linda , that was not fair . 
And so far as I can see , said Katy , Miss Marian is taking it without a struggle . 
She is not lifting a finger or making a move to win him back . 
Of course she isn't ! said Linda indignantly . 
Did you ever lose a man you loved , Katy ? That I did not ! said Katy emphatically . 
We didn't do any four or five years' philanderin' to see if a man 'could make good' when I was a youngster . 
All this philanderin' that young folks do nowadays is just pure nonsense , and waste of time . 
Cotyledon of Multiflores Canyon 'Ave , atque vale ! Cotyledon ! Linda slid down the side of the canyon with the deftness of the expert . 
At the first available crevice she thrust in her Alpine stick , and bracing herself , gained a footing . 
Then she turned and by use of her fingers and toes worked her way back to the plan , she had passed . 
She was familiar with many members of she family , but such a fine specimen she seldom had found and she could not recall having seen it in all of her botanies . 
She worked swiftly and with breathless interest . 
When she had finished the flower she began sketching in the moss covered face of the boulder against which it grew , and other bits of vegetation near . 
I think , Coty , she said , it is very probable that I can come a few simoleons with you . 
You are becoming better looking ever minute . 
For a touch of color she margined one side of her drawing with a little spray of Pentstemon whose bright tubular flower the canyon knew as hummingbird's dinner horn . 
Then she returned the drawing and pencil to her knapsack , and making sure of her footing , worked her way forward . 
With her long slender fingers she began teasing the plant loose from the rock and the surrounding soil . 
The roots penetrated deeper than she had supposed and in her interest she forgot her precarious footing and pulled hard . 
It's a girl ! cried the driver , and both men sprang to the road and hurried to Linda's assistance . 
Are you sure you're not hurt ? Linda stood before them , a lithe slender figure , vivid with youth and vitality . 
I am able to stand , she said , so of course I haven't broken any bones . 
I'm sure I am all right , answered Linda . 
I have falling down mountains reduced to an exact science . 
I'll bet you couldn't slide that far and bring down Coty without a scratch . 
Well , which is the more precious , said the young man . 
Yourself or the specimen ? Why , the specimen ! answered Linda in impatience . 
California is full of girls but this is the finest Cotyledon of this family I have ever seen . 
Don't mistake this for any common stonecrop . 
It looks to me like an Echeveria . 
I know what I mean to do with the picture I have made of her , and I know exactly where she is going to grow from this day on . 
Is there any way we can help you ? inquired the elder of the two men . 
For the first time Linda glanced at him , and her impression was that he was decidedly attractive . 
No , thank you ! she answered briskly . 
I am going to climb back up to the boulder and collect the belongings I spilled on the way down . 
Then I am going to carry Coty to the car line in a kind of triumphal march , because she is the rarest find that I have ever made . 
I hope you have no dark designs on Coty , because this is 'what the owner had to do to redeem her . 
Here , let me do that , offered the younger man . 
You rest until I collect your belongings . 
Linda glanced back over her shoulder . 
I have a mental inventory of all the pencils and knives and trowels I must find . 
You might overlook the most important part of my paraphernalia and really I am not damaged . 
Good bye ! Linda started back up the side of the canyon , leaving the young men to enter their car and drive away . 
For a minute both of them stood watching her . 
What will girls be wearing and doing next ? asked the elder of the two as he started his car . 
What would you have a girl wear when she is occupied with coasting down canyons ? said his friend . 
And as for what she is doing , it's probable that every high school girl in Los Angeles has a botanical collection to make before she graduates . 
I see ! said the man driving . 
And I noticed also that she either doesn't know it , or doesn't give a flip . 
The stream at her feet was noisy and icy cold . 
All along its length grew willows , and in a few places white bodied sycamores . 
Everywhere over the walls red above it that vegetation could find a footing grew mosses , vines , flowers , and shrubs . 
On the shadiest side homed most of the ferns and the Cotyledon . 
Canyon wrens and vireos sang as they nested . 
The air was clear , cool , and salty from the near by sea . 
Myriad leaf shadows danced on the black roadbed , level as a barn floor , and across it trailed the wavering image of hawk and vulture , gull and white sea swallow . 
An hour later she entered the driveway of her home . 
She stopped to set her plant carefully in the wild garden she and her father had worked all her life at collecting , then followed the back porch and kitchen route . 
Whatever have ye been doing to yourself , honey ? cried Katy . 
I came a cropper down Multiflores Canyon where it is so steep that it leans the other way . 
I pretty well pulverized myself for a pulverulent , Katy , which is a poor joke . 
Now ain't that just my luck ! wailed Katy , snatching a cake cutter and beginning hurriedly to stamp out little cakes from the dough before her . 
Well , I don't understand in exactly what way , said Linda , absently rubbing her elbows and her knees . 
Seems to me it's my promontories that have been knocked off , not yours , Katy . 
Well , first of all , there is Mr. Gilman , of course . 
'Of course , conceded Linda . 
If he tried to get past our house , Eileen is perfectly capable of setting it on fire to stop him . 
She's got him 'vamped' properly . 
Oh I don't know that ye should say just that , said Katy Eileen is a mighty pretty girl , and she is SOME manager . 
You can stake your hilarious life she is , said Linda , viciously kicking a boot to the center of the kitchen . 
She can manage to go downtown for lunch and be invited out to dinner thirteen times a week , and leave us at home to eat bread and milk , bread heavily stressed . 
Manage , I'll say she can manage , not to mention managing to snake John Gilman right out of Marian's fingers . 
Honey , are ye too bad hurt to help me any ? asked Katy , as she passed her . 
Of course not , said Linda . 
Give me a few minutes to take a bath and step into my clothes and then I'll be on the job . 
With a black scowl on her face , Linda climbed the dingy back stairway in her stocking feet . 
The door of the guest room stood open and she could see that it was filled with fresh flowers and ready for occupancy . 
The door of her sister's room was slightly ajar and she pushed it open and stood looking inside . 
In her state of disarray she made a shocking contrast to the flowerlike figure busy before a dressing table . 
Linda was dark , narrow , rawboned , overgrown in height , and forthright of disposition . 
With a strand of softly curled hair in one hand and a fancy pin in the other , Eileen turned a disapproving look upon her sister . 
What's the great idea ? demanded Linda shortly . 
Oh , it's perfectly splendid , answered Eileen . 
John Gilman's best friend is motoring around here looking for a location to build a home . 
He is an author and young and good looking and not married , and he thinks he would like to settle somewhere near Los Angeles . 
Of course John would love to have him in Lilac Valley because he hopes to build a home here some day for himself . 
His name is Peter Morrison and John says that his articles and stories have horse sense , logic , and humor , and he is making a lot of money . 
Then God help John Gilman , if he thinks now that he is in love with you , said Linda dryly . 
Eileen arched her eyebrows , thinned to a hair line , and her lips drew together in disapproval . 
What I can't understand , she said , is how you can be so unspeakably vulgar , Linda . 
And this Peter Morrison and John are our guests for dinner ? Yes , said Eileen . 
I am going to show them this valley inside and out . 
I'm so glad it's spring . 
We're at our very best . 
He has seen a couple of them in in San Francisco . 
Up the flue goes Marian's chance of drawing the plans for John Gilman's house , she said . 
I have heard him say a dozen times he would not build a house unless Marian made the plans . 
Eileen deftly placed the strand of hair and set the jewelled pin with precision . 
Just possibly things have changed slightly , she suggested . 
Yes , said Linda , I observe that they have . 
Marian has sold the home she adored . 
She is leaving friends she loved and trusted , and who were particularly bound to her by a common grief without realizing exactly how it is happening . 
Linda , said Eileen , her face pale with anger , you are positively insufferable . 
Are you proposing to entertain these three men yourself , or have you asked Marian ? Eileen indicated an open note lying on her dressing table . 
I did not know they were coming until an hour ago , she said . 
I barely had time to fill the vases and dust , and then I ran up to dress so that there would be someone presentable when they arrive . 
Haven't you talked it over with Marian , and told her that you would want her when they came ? Eileen was extremely busy with another wave of hair . 
She turned her back and her voice was not quite steady as she answered . 
Ever since Marian got this 'going to the city to study' idea in her head I have scarcely seen her . 
You just make me almost wonder at you . 
I'll tell you this I told Katy I would help her , but I won't do it if you don't go over and make Marian come tonight . 
Eileen turned to her sister and looked at her keenly . 
Linda's brow was sullen , and her jaw set . 
Eileen hesitated a second and then said All right , since you make such a point of it I will ask her . 
Very well , said Linda . 
Then I'll help Katy the very best I can . 
The House of Dreams In less than an hour , Linda was in the kitchen , dressed in an old green skirt and an orange blouse . 
Katy pinned one of her aprons on the girl and told her that her first job was to set the table . 
And Miss Eileen has given most particular orders that I use the very best of everything . 
Lay the table for four , and you are to be extremely careful in serving not to spill the soup . 
Linda stood very quietly for a second , her heavy black brows drawn together in deep thought . 
When did Eileen issue these instructions ? she inquired . 
Not five minutes ago , said Katy . 
She just left me kitchen and I'll say I never saw her lookin' such a perfect picture . 
That new dress of hers is the most becoming one she has ever had . 
Almost unconsciously , Linda's hand reached to the front of her well worn blouse , and she glanced downward at her skirt and shoes . 
Um hm , she said meditatively , another new dress for Eileen , which means that I will get nothing until next month's allowance comes in , if I do then . 
The table set for four , which , interpreted , signifies that she has asked Marian in such a way that Marian won't come . 
And the caution as to care with the soup means that I am to serve my father's table like a paid waitress . 
Katy , I have run for over three years on Eileen's schedule , but this past year I am beginning to use my brains and I am reaching the place of self assertion . 
That programme won't do , Katy . 
It's got to be completely revised . 
You just watch me and see how I follow those instructions . 
She entered the house without knocking and in the hall uttered a low penetrating whistle . 
It was instantly answered from upstairs . 
Linda began climbing , and met Marian at the top . 
Why , Marian , she cried , I had no idea you were so far along . 
The house is actually empty . 
Practically everything went yesterday , answered Marian . 
Those things of Father's and Mother's and my own that I wish to keep I have put in storage , and the remainder went to James's Auction Rooms . 
The house is sold , and I am leaving in the morning . 
Linda suddenly gathered her friend in her arms and held her tight . 
Well , thank heaven that you felt sufficiently sure of me to come to me when you needed me . 
Of course you shall spend the night with me and I must have been mistaken in thinking Eileen had been here . 
She probably will come any minute . 
There are guests for the night . 
John is bringing that writer friend of his . 
Of course you know about him . 
Of course ! John has always talked of him . 
He had some extremely clever articles in The Post lately . 
Well , he is one , said Linda , and an architect who is touring with him is two they are looking for a location to build a house for the writer . 
You can see that it would be a particularly attractive feather in our cap if he would endorse our valley sufficiently to home in it . 
I am sure I never did , answered Marian . 
I so love one spot that I have been most secretive about it . 
I am certain I never went further than to say there was a place on which I would love to build for myself the house of my dreams . 
That is one of the reasons why I am hurrying on my way to San Francisco much sooner than I had expected to go . 
I haven't a suitable dinner dress because my trunks have gone , but among such old friends it won't matter . 
I have one fussy blouse in my bag , and I'll be over as soon as I can see to closing up the house and dressing . 
Linda hurried home , and going to the dining room , she laid the table for six in a deft and artistic manner . 
She filled a basket with beautiful flowers of her own growing for a centerpiece , and carefully followed Eileen's instruction to use the best of everything . 
When she had finished she went to the kitchen . 
Katy , she said , take a look at my handiwork . 
It's just lovely , said Katy heartily . 
I was seventeen my last birthday . 
Hereafter when there are guests I sit at my father's table , and you will have to do the best you can with serving , Katy . 
And it's just exactly right ye are , said Katy . 
I'll do my best , and if that's not good enough , Miss Eileen knows what she can do . 
Now listen to you , laughed Linda . 
Katy , you couldn't be driven to leave me , by anything on this earth that Eileen could do you know you couldn't . 
Sure , I wouldn't be leaving ye , lambie , she said . 
We'll get everything ready , and I can serve I six as nicely as anyone . 
But you're not forgetting that Miss Eileen said most explicit to lay the table for FOUR ? I am not forgetting , said Linda . 
For Eileen's sake I am I sorry to say that her ship is on the shoals . 
She is not going to have clear sailing with little sister Linda any longer . 
This is the year of woman's rights , you know , Katy , and I am beginning to realize that my rights have been badly infringed upon for lo these many years . 
If Eileen chooses to make a scene before guests , that is strictly up to Eileen . 
Now what is it you want me to do ? Katy directed and Linda worked swiftly . 
Soon they heard a motor stop , and laughing voices told them that the guests had arrived . 
Now I wonder , said Linda , whether Marian is here yet . 
At that minute Marian appeared at the kitchen door . 
Linda , she said breathlessly , I am feeling queer about this . 
Oh , that's all right , said Linda casually . 
The folks have come , and she was only waiting to make them a bit at home before she ran after you . 
She was not allowing me much time to dress . 
That's 'cause she knew you did not need it , retorted Linda . 
The more you fuss up , the less handsome you are , and you never owned anything in your life so becoming as that old red blouse . 
So farewell , Katy , we're due to burst into high society tonight . 
We're going to help Eileen vamp a lawyer , and an author , and an architect , one apiece . 
Which do you prefer , Marian ? I'll take the architect , said Marian . 
We should have something in common since I am going to be a great architect myself one of these days . 
Why , that is too bad , said Linda . 
I'll have to rearrange the table if you insist , because I took him , and left you the author , and it was for love of you I did it . 
I truly wanted him myself , all the time . 
They stopped in the dining room and Marian praised Linda's work in laying the table and then , together they entered the living room . 
At the moment of their entrance , Eileen was talking animatedly about the beauties of the valley as a location for a happy home . 
Ten days afterward Marian's head of beautiful dark hair was muslin white . 
Now it framed a face of youth and beauty with peculiar pathos . 
Striking was perhaps the one adjective which would best describe her . 
John Gilman came hastily to greet them . 
Linda , after a swift glance at Eileen , turned astonished eyes on their guests . 
For one second she looked at the elder of them , then at the younger . 
There was no recognition in her eyes , and there was a decided negative in a swift movement of her head . 
Both men understood that she did not wish them to mention that they ever had seen her previously . 
For an instant there was a strained situation . 
Eileen was white with anger . 
John Gilman was looking straight at Marian , and in his soul he must have wondered if he had been wise in neglecting her for Eileen . 
Peter Morrison and his architect , Henry Anderson , had two things to think about . 
But that does not prove that Eileen mentioned it to me , answered Linda quietly so you must find your places from the cards I could prepare in a hurry . 
This could be done with unanimity and enthusiasm by every resident of Lilac Valley for the very simple reason that it was the truth . 
Evidently she was going to sulk in the hope that this would prove that any party was a failure at which she did not exert herself to be gracious . 
I have been told , she said , addressing the author , that you are looking for a home in California . 
You have struck exactly the right place , said Linda . 
We have concrete by the wagon load in this valley and we are perfectly willing to donate the amount required to materialize your ideas . 
Ever since I finished college I have been in newspaper work and I have lived in an apartment in New York except while I was abroad . 
That is not much of a compliment to us , said Linda slowly . 
How do you think we would dare write them if they were not true ? This caused such a laugh that everyone felt much easier . 
Marian turned her dark eyes toward Peter Morrison . 
Linda and I are busy people , she said . 
I am sick in my soul of narrow apartments and wheels and the rush and roar of the city . 
There was a time when I ate and drank it . 
It was the very breath of life to me . 
I charged on Broadway like a caterpillar tank charging in battle but it is very remarkable how quickly one changes in this world . 
I have had some success in my work , and the higher I go , the better work I feel I can do in a quiet place and among less enervating surroundings . 
John and I were in college together , roommates , and no doubt he has told you that we graduated with the same class . 
He has found his location here and I would particularly enjoy having a home near him . 
One would almost expect , said Marian , that a writer would say something more original . 
This valley is filled with people who came here saying precisely what you have said and the lure of the land won them and here they are , shameless boosters of California . 
Why shameless ? inquired Henry Anderson . 
Because California so verifies the wildest statement that can be made concerning her that one may go the limit of imagination without shame , laughed Marian . 
I try in all my dealings to stick to the straight and narrow path . 
Oh , kid , don't stick to the straight and narrow , broke in Linda , there's no scenery . 
That is what makes this valley so adorable , said Marian when at last she could make herself heard . 
It is neither straight nor narrow . 
The wing of a white sea swallow never swept a lovelier curve on the breast of the ocean than the line of this valley . 
My mother was the dearest little woman , and she used to say that this valley was outlined by a gracious gesture from the hand of God in the dawn of Creation . 
Peter Morrison deliberately turned in his chair , his eyes intent on Marian's earnest face . 
You almost make me want to say , in the language of an old hymn I used to hear my mother sing , 'Here will I set up my rest . 
With such a name as Lilac Valley and with such a thought in the heart concerning it , I scarcely feel that there is any use in looking further . 
Peter Morrison turned to his friend . 
Gilman , he said , you're a lawyer you should know the things I'd like to . 
I think every acre of land suitable for garden or field cultivation is taken . 
Next thing they'll be asking about mountain lions and rattlesnakes . 
I beg your pardon , said Gilman , I fear none of us has remembered to present Miss Linda as a coming naturalist . 
She got her start from her father , who was one of the greatest nerve specialists the world ever has known . 
She knows every inch of the mountains , the canyons and the desert . 
She always says that she cut her teeth on a chunk of adobe , while her father hunted the nests of trap door spiders out in Sunland . 
Oh , my soul , said Peter Morrison . 
Good people , I have located . 
I have come to stay . 
I would like three acres but I could exist with two an acre would seem an estate to me , and my ideas of a house , Henry , are shriveling . 
I did have a dream of something that must have been precious near a home . 
Won't do , said Linda . 
A house is not a house in California without a furnace and a bathroom . 
This to add verisimilitude to what everyone else in Lilac Valley is going to tell you . 
I hadn't thought I would need a fire , said Peter , and I was depending on the ocean for my bathtub . 
I am particularly fond of a salt rub . 
So far , Eileen had not deigned to enter the conversation . 
And it occurred to him that Linda and Marian were dominating the party . 
He said the most irritating thing possible in the circumstances I am afraid you are not feeling well this evening , Eileen . 
The one perfect thing about me , she said with closely cut precision , is my health . 
I haven't the faintest notion what it means to be ill . 
I am merely waiting for the conversation to take a I turn where I can join in it intelligently . 
Why , bless the child ! exclaimed Linda . 
Linda ! cried Eileen indignantly . 
Good gracious ! cried Linda . 
Bravo ! cried Henry Anderson . 
Would it be the old case of 'I furnish the bread and you furnish the water' ? No , said Peter Morrison , it would not . 
Henry is doing mighty well . 
I guarantee that he would furnish a cow that would produce real cream . 
How joyous ! said Linda . 
I feel quite competent to manage the bread question . 
We'll call that settled then . 
The one thing she won't ever tell is where her location is , but wherever it is , Peter Morrison , don't you dare take it . 
I wouldn't for the world , said Peter Morrison gravely . 
If Miss Thorne will tell me even on which side of the valley her location lies , I will agree to stay on the other side . 
Well there is one thing you can depend upon , said the irrepressible Linda before Marian had time to speak . 
It is sure to be on the sunny side . 
Every living soul in California is looking for a place in the sun . 
Then I will make a note of it , said Peter Morrison . 
But isn't there enough sun in all this lovely valley that I may have a place in it too ? You go straight ahead and select any location you like , said Marian . 
I give you the freedom of the valley . 
There's not one chance in ten thousand that you would find or see anything attractive about the one secluded spot I have always hoped I might some day own . 
This is not fooling , then ? asked Peter Morrison . 
I dream about it myself . 
I never have heard of such a case . 
Have any of you ? I am sure no one has , said John Gilman meditatively , and it's a queer thing . 
I can't see why people don't plan a house the way they want it before they build . 
Marian turned to him the same Marian he had fallen in love with when they were children . 
And then , added Marian , things happen in families . 
Sometimes more babies than they expect come to newly married people and they require more room . 
My goodness , yes ! broke in Linda . 
Just look at Sylvia Townsend twins to begin with . 
Linda ! breathed Eileen , aghast . 
So glad you like my name , dear , murmured Linda sweetly . 
And then , continued Marian , changes come to other people as they have to me . 
I don't think there is a soul in the valley who blames you for selling your home and going , Marian , said Linda soberly . 
I think it would be foolish if you did not . 
The return to the living room brought no change . 
Eileen pouted while Linda and Marian thoroughly enjoyed themselves and gave the guests a most entertaining evening . 
Whereupon Linda deliberately led Marian to the carefully dusted and flower garnished guest room and installed her with every comfort and convenience that the house afforded . 
Then bringing her brushes from her own room , she and Marian made themselves comfortable , visiting far into the night . 
I wonder , said Linda . 
if Peter Morrison will go to a real estate man in the morning and look over the locations remaining in Lilac Valley . 
Yes , I think he will , said Marian conclusively . 
I haven't anything but two or three pencil sketches from which I drew the final plans as I now think I'll submit them for the contest . 
Wouldn't it be a tall feather in my cap , Linda , if by any chance l I should win that prize ? It would be more than a feather , said Linda . 
Then she left them lying on a table , waiting to be returned to her case before she replaced her clothes in the morning . 
In helping her , it fell to Linda to pack Marian's case . 
Marian smiled and waved in return until the train bore her away . 
Then she sat down wearily and stared unseeingly from a window . 
Life did such very dreadful things to people . 
Her girlhood had been so happy . 
Then came the day of the Black Shadow , but in her blackest hour she had not felt alone . 
She had supposed she was leaning on John Gilman as securely as she had leaned on her father . 
She had learned , with the loss of her father , that one cannot be sure of anything in this world least of all of human life . 
Yet in her darkest days she had depended on John Gilman . 
She had every reason to believe that it was for her that he struggled daily to gain a footing in his chosen profession . 
She sat in the train , steadily carrying her mile after mile farther from her home , and tried to think what had happened and how and why it had happened . 
She could not feel that she had been wrong in her estimate of John Gilman . 
Her valuation of him had been taught her by her father and mother and by Doctor and Mrs. Strong and by John Gilman himself . 
Dating from the time that Doctor Strong had purchased the property and built a home in Lilac Valley beside Hawthorne House , Marian had admired Eileen and had loved her . 
She was several years older than the beautiful girl she had grown up beside . 
Age had not mattered Eileen's beauty had not mattered . 
Marian was good looking herself . 
She never had been able to see the inner workings of Eileen's heart . 
She was not capable of understanding that when John Gilman was poor and struggling Eileen had ignored him . 
It had not occurred to Marian that when the success for which he struggled began to come generously , Eileen would begin to covet the man she had previously disdained . 
She had always striven to find friends among people of wealth and distinction . 
Marian was prepared to be the mental , the spiritual , and the physical mate of a man . 
Eileen was not prepared to be in truth and honor any of these . 
She was prepared to make any emergency of life subservient to her own selfish desires . 
She was prepared to use any man with whom she came in contact for the furtherance of any whim that at the hour possessed her . 
What she wanted was unbridled personal liberty , unlimited financial resources . 
Daniel Thorne was an older man than Doctor Strong . 
He had accumulated more property . 
To one spot in the valley she had gone from childhood as a secret place in which to dream and study . 
She had loved that retreat until it had become a living passion with her . 
She had not wanted to leave the valley . 
She had not wanted to lose John Gilman . 
She had not wanted to part with the home she had been reared in . 
Yet all of these things seemed to have been forced upon her . 
All Marian knew to do was to square her shoulders , take a deep breath , put regrets behind her , and move steadily toward the best future she could devise for herself . 
She meant to offer her plans in this competition . 
Through friends she had secured a comfortable place in which to live and work . 
She need undergo no hardships in searching for a home , in clothing herself , in paying for instruction in the course in architecture she meant to pursue . 
Concerning Linda she could not resist a feeling of exultation . 
Linda was one of the friends in Lilac Valley about whom Marian could think wholeheartedly and lovingly . 
The experience of the previous night taught Marian that Linda had arrived . 
She would no longer be the compliant little sister who would run Eileen's errands , wait upon her guests and wear disreputable clothing . 
She had been almost constantly with him during his life , very much alone since his death . 
She was a busy young person . 
From Marian's windows she had watched the business of carrying on the wild flower garden that Linda and her father had begun . 
What the occupation was that kept the light burning in Linda's room far into the night Marian did not know . 
What Linda was doing during those midnight hours Marian did not know , but she did know that she was not wrestling with mathematics and languages at least not all of the time . 
So Marian knowing Linda's gift with a pencil , had come to the conclusion that she was drawing pictures but circumstantial evidence was all she had as a basis for her conviction . 
Linda went her way silently and alone . 
She was acquainted with everyone living in Lilac Valley , frank and friendly with all of them aside from Marian she had no intimate friend . 
For an instant after Marian had boarded her train Linda stood looking at it , her heart so heavy that it pained acutely . 
She had not said one word to make Marian feel that she did not want her to go . 
So long as he was Marian's friend Linda had admired John Gilman . 
She had gone to him for some measure of the companionship she had missed in losing her father . 
Since Gilman had allowed himself to be captivated by Eileen , Linda had harbored a feeling concerning him almost of contempt . 
Life was a busy affair for Linda . 
She had not time to watch Marian's train from sight . 
She must hurry to the nearest street car and make all possible haste or she would be late for her classes . 
Previously Linda had remained stubbornly silent during any tirade in which Eileen chose to indulge . 
She had allowed herself to be nagged into doing many things that she despised , because she would not assert herself against apparent injustice . 
Linda knew that if John Gilman were well acquainted with Eileen , he could not come any nearer to loving her than she did . 
Such an idea as loving Eileen never had entered Linda's thoughts . 
To Linda , Eileen was not lovable . 
That she should be expected to love her because they had the same parents and lived in the same home seemed absurd . 
She was slightly disappointed , on reaching home , to find that Eileen was not there . 
Will the lady of the house dine with us this evening ? she asked as she stood eating an apple in the kitchen . 
She didn't say , answered Katy . 
Have ye had it out about last night yet ? No , answered Linda . 
That is why I was asking about her . 
I want to clear the atmosphere before I make my new start in life . 
Now , don't ye be going too far , lambie , cautioned Katy Ye young things make such an awful serious business of life these days . 
In your scramble to wring artificial joy out of it you miss all the natural joy the good God provided ye . 
It seems to me , Katy , said Linda slowly , that you should put that statement the other way round . 
One life is all I've got to live in this world , and I would like it to be the interesting and the beautiful kind of life that Father lived . 
Linda dropped to a chair . 
Katy , she said , leaning forward and looking intently into the earnest face of the woman before her , Katy , I have been thinking an awful lot lately . 
There is a question you could answer for me if you wanted to . 
Well , I don't see any raison , said Katy , why I shouldn't answer ye any question ye'd be asking me . 
Katy , she said , scarcely above her breath , was Mother like Eileen ? Katy stiffened . 
Her red face paled slightly . 
She turned her back and slowly slid into the oven the pie she was carrying . 
She closed the door with more force than was necessary and then turned and deliberately studied Linda from the top of her shining black head to the tip of her shoe . 
Some , she said tersely . 
You know what I mean , Katy . 
Yes , said Katy deliberately , I know what ye mean , lambie , and I'll tell ye the truth as far as I know it . 
She managed your father , she pampered him , but she deceived him every day , just about little things . 
She always made the household accounts bigger than they were , and used the extra money for Miss Eileen and herself things like that . 
I'm thinkin' he never knew it . 
I'm thinking he loved her deeply and trusted her complete . 
I know what ye're getting at . 
She was not enough like Eileen to make him unhappy with her . 
Linda's eyes came back from the mountains and met Katy's straightly . 
Katy , she said , did you ever see sisters as different as Eileen and I are ? No , I don't think I ever did , said Katy . 
It puzzles me , said Linda slowly . 
No , said Katy , ye were just as different as ye are now when I came to this house new and ye were both little things . 
And we are going to be as different and to keep on growing more different every day of our lives , because red war breaks out the minute Eileen comes home . 
Now , easy ye go easy , lambie , cautioned Katy . 
You know Eileen is lovely when she is natural , and if she would be straight off the bat square , I would be proud to be her sister . 
As it is , I have my doubts , even about this sister business . 
Why , Linda , child , ye are just plain crazy , said Katy . 
What kind of notions are you getting into your head ? I hear the front door , said Linda , and I am going to march straight to battle . 
She's going up the front stairs . 
I did mean to short cut up the back , but , come to think of it , I have served my apprenticeship on the back stairs . 
I believe I'll ascend the front myself . 
Good bye , darlin' , wish me luck . 
Linda swung Katy around , hugged her tight , and dropped a kiss on the top of her faithful head . 
Ye just stick right up for your rights , Katy advised her . 
Ye're a great big girl . 
'Tain't going to be long till ye're eighteen . 
But mind your old Katy about going too far . 
If ye lose your temper and cat spit , it won't get ye anywhere . 
The fellow that keeps the coolest can always do the best headwork . 
I get you , said Linda , and that is good advice for which I thank you . 
At Linda's step in the doorway she turned a smiling face upon her and cried Hello , little sister , come in and tell me the news . 
Linda stopped as if dazed . 
The wonderment in which she looked at Eileen was stamped all over her . 
A surprised braid of hair hung over one of her shoulders . 
Her hands were surprised , and the skirt of her dress , and her shoes flatly set on the floor . 
Well , I'll be darned ! she ejaculated , and then walked to where she could face Eileen , and seated herself without making any attempt to conceal her amazement . 
Linda , said Eileen sweetly , you would stand far better chance of being popular and making a host of friends if you would not be so coarse . 
I am quite sure you never heard Mama or me use such an expression . 
For one long instant Linda was too amazed to speak . 
Look here , Eileen , you needn't try any 'perfect lady' business on me , she said shortly . 
On rare occasions , I grant it . 
Of course a little swear slips out sometimes . 
What I am trying to point out is that you do too much of it . 
Let's cut this , said Linda tersely . 
I am not your child . 
I'm getting to the place where I have serious doubt as to whether I am your sister or not . 
If I am , it's not my fault , and the same clay never made two objects quite so different . 
I came up here to fight , and I'm going to see it through . 
I'm on the warpath , so you may take your club and proceed to battle . 
What have we to fight about ? inquired Eileen . 
Every single thing that you have done that was unfair to me all my life , said Linda . 
I am going to be eighteen before so very long , and I have ceased to be your maid or your waitress or your dupe . 
You are not going to work me one single time when I have got brains to see through your schemes after this . 
Hereafter I take my place in my father's house and at my father's table on an equality with you . 
Eileen looked at Linda steadily , trying to see to the depths of her soul . 
She saw enough to convince her that the young creature in front of her was in earnest . 
Hm , she said , have I been so busy that I have failed to notice what a great girl you are getting ? Busy ! scoffed Linda . 
It's a kumquat ! Perhaps you are too big , continued Eileen , to be asked to wait on the table any more . 
I certainly am , retorted Linda , and I am also too big to wear such shoes or such a dress as I have on at the present min . 
I told you four years ago that you might take the touring car and do what you pleased with it . 
I told you to take this suite , and this is the first time that I have ever mentioned to you what you spent on it . 
Linda waved an inclusive hand toward the fully equipped , dainty dressing table , over rugs of pale blue , and beautifully decorated walls , including the sleeping room and bath adjoining . 
So now I'll ask you to keep off while I do what I please about the library and the billiard room . 
I'll try to get along without much money in doing what I desire there , but I must have some new clothes . 
I want money to buy me a pair of new shoes for school . 
I want a pair of pumps suitable for evenings when there are guests to dinner . 
I want a couple of attractive school dresses . 
This old serge is getting too hot and too worn for common decency . 
And I also want a couple of dresses something like you are wearing , for afternoons and evenings . 
Eileen stared aghast at Linda . 
I have stood it for three years from the girls . 
I am an adept in pretending that I don't see , and I don't hear . 
I don't know where you are going to get the money , but you are going to get it . 
Linda's amazement on entering the room had been worthy of note . 
Eileen's at the present minute was beyond description . 
Dumbfounded was a colorless word to describe her state of mind . 
You don't mean that , she gasped in a quivering voice when at last she could speak . 
I can see , Eileen , that you are taken unawares , said Linda . 
I have had four long years to work up to this hour . 
Hasn't it even dawned on you that this worm was ever going to turn ? You know exquisite moths and butterflies evolve in the canyons from very unprepossessing and lowly living worms . 
You are spending your life on the butterfly stunt . 
No , you never knew anything of the kind , said Linda bluntly , because I have not the slightest ambition to enter society either now or then . 
You needn't be surprised if you hear some changes going on in the billiard room and see some changes going on in the library . 
And if I feel that I can muster the nerve to drive the runabout , it's my car , it's up to me . 
Linda ! wailed Eileen , how can you think of such a thing ? You wouldn't dare . 
Because I haven't dared till the present is no reason why I should deprive myself of every single pleasure in life , said Linda . 
You spend your days doing exactly what you please driving that runabout for Father was my one soul satisfying diversion . 
Are you subscribing to this ? she asked . 
She turned in her hands and leafed through the pages of a most attractive magazine , Everybody's Home . 
It was devoted to poetry , good fiction , and everything concerning home life from beef to biscuits , and from rugs to roses . 
I saw it on a newsstand , said Eileen . 
If we find it good then she recommends that we specialize on the growing of these native vegetables for home use and for export as a new industry . 
I see , said Linda . 
Out Burbanking Burbank , as it were . 
No , not that , said Eileen . 
She is not proposing to evolve new forms . 
She is proposing to show us how to make delicious dishes for luncheon or dinner from wild things now going to waste . 
What the girls said was so interesting that I thought I'd get a copy and if I see anything good I'll turn it over to Katy . 
And where's Katy going to get the wild vegetables ? asked Linda sceptically . 
Why you might have some of them in your wild garden , or you could easily find enough to try all the prowling the canyons you do ought to result in something . 
So it should , said Linda . 
I quite agree with you . 
Oh , Linda , she said , what is the use of being so hard ? You will make them think at the bank that I have not treated you fairly . 
I'll see what I can do , answered Eileen . 
All right then , said Linda . 
As she straightened her hair she looked at herself intently . 
My , aren't you coming on ! she said to the figure in the glass . 
Dressing for dinner ! First thing you know you'll be a perfect lady . 
She had decided on redressing her hair , while she wore one of her most becoming and attractive gowns . 
To Linda and Katy during the dinner she was simply charming . 
At once she began studying deeply in an effort to learn what it might be . 
There were three paramount things in Eileen's cosmos that could happen to a girl She could have lovely clothing . 
Linda did not have it . 
She could have money and influential friends . 
Since Marian's going Linda had practically no friend she was merely acquainted with almost everyone living in Lilac Valley . 
She could have a lover . 
But stay ! Eileen's thought halted at the suggestion . 
Maybe she had ! She had been left completely , to her own devices when she was not wanted about the house . 
She had been mingling with hundreds of boys and girls in high school . 
She might have met some man repeatedly on the street cars , going to and from school . 
In school she might have attracted the son of some wealthy and influential family which was the only kind of son Eileen chose to consider in connection with Linda . 
Through Eileen's brain ran bits of the conversation of the previous evening . 
Between them then it would have been merely a question of taste on the part of the man . 
Since Marian's dark head had turned ashen , Eileen had simply eliminated her at one sweep . 
That white hair would brand Marian anywhere as an old woman . 
Very likely no man ever would want to marry her . 
Eileen was sure she would not want to if she were a man . 
No wonder John Gilman had ceased to be attracted by a girl's face with a grandmother setting . 
As for Linda , Eileen never had considered her at all except as a convenience to serve her own purposes . 
Last night she had learned that Linda had a brain , that she had wit , that she could say things to which men of the world listened with interest . 
She began to watch Linda . 
She appraised with deepest envy the dark hair curling naturally on her temples . 
She drew some satisfaction from the sunburned face and lean figure before her , but it was not satisfaction of soul sustaining quality . 
There was beginning to be something disquieting about Linda . 
A roundness was creeping over her lean frame a glow was beginning to color her lips and cheek bones a dewy look could be surprised in her dark eyes occasionally . 
She had the effect of a creature with something yeasty bottled inside it that was beginning to ferment and might effervesce at any minute . 
Eileen had been so surprised the previous evening and again before dinner , that she made up her mind that hereafter one might expect almost anything from Linda . 
She would no longer follow a suggestion unless the suggestion accorded with her sense of right and justice . 
It was barely possible that it might be required to please her inclinations . 
Eileen's mind worked with unbelievable swiftness . 
She tore at her subject like a vulture tearing at a feast , and like a vulture she reached the vitals swiftly . 
She prefaced her question with a dry laugh . 
Then she leaned forward and asked softly Linda , dear , why haven't you told me ? Linda's eyes were so clear and honest as they met Eileen's that she almost hesitated . 
A little more explicit , please , said the girl quietly . 
WHO IS HE ? asked Eileen abruptly . 
She might for a short time yet cut Linda's finances to the extreme limit . 
Whenever a man appeared on the horizon she would be forced to make a division at least approaching equality . 
Linda followed Eileen to the living room and sat down with a book until John Gilman arrived . 
She had a desire to study him for a few minutes . 
She was going to write Marian a letter that night . 
She wanted to know if she could honestly tell her that Gilman appeared lonely and seemed to miss her . 
Katy had no chance to answer the bell when it rang . 
Eileen was in the hall . 
Linda could not tell what was happening from the murmur of voices . 
Presently John and Eileen entered the room , and as Linda greeted him she did have the impression that he appeared unusually thoughtful and worried . 
She sat for half an hour , taking slight part in the conversation . 
Slowly Linda climbed the stairs and entered her room . 
We consider ourselves capable of preparing and producing elaborate banquets , yet at no time are we approaching anything even to compare in lavishness and delicacy with the days of Lucullus . 
We are not feasting on baked swans , peacock tongues and drinking our pearls . 
In so doing we accomplish a multiple purpose . 
We enlarge the resources of the southwest . 
We tease stale appetites with a new tang . 
We offer the world something different , yet native to us . 
We use modern methods on Indian material and the results are most surprising . 
In trying these dishes I would remind you that few of us cared for oysters , olives , celery almost any fruit or vegetable one could mention on first trial . 
Try several times and be sure you prepare dishes exactly right before condemning them as either fad or fancy . 
These are very real , nourishing and delicious foods that are being offered you . 
Here is a salad that would have intrigued the palate of Lucullus , himself . 
If you do not believe me , try it . 
The vegetable is slightly known by a few native mountaineers and ranchers . 
Botanists carried it abroad where under the name of winter purslane it is used in France and England for greens or salad , while remaining practically unknown at home . 
Boiled and seasoned as spinach it makes equally good greens . 
But it is in salad that it stands pre eminent . 
Go to any canyon I shall not reveal the name of my particular canyon and locate a bed of miner's lettuce . 
The crisp , pinkish stems snap in the fingers . 
Be sure that you wash the leaves carefully so that no lurking germs cling to them . 
Fill your salad bowl with the crisp leaves , from which the flowerhead has been plucked . 
For dressing , dice a teacup of the most delicious bacon you can obtain and fry it to a crisp brown together with a small sliced onion . 
Add to the fat two tablespoons of sugar , half a teaspoon of mustard salt will scarcely be necessary the bacon will furnish that . 
Blend the fat , sugar , and mustard , and pour in a measure of the best apple vinegar , diluted to taste . 
Bring this mixture to the boiling point , and when it has cooled slightly pour it over the lettuce leaves , lightly turning with a silver fork . 
That is all right , she said . 
I couldn't make that much better . 
Below she printed A delicious Indian salad . 
The second of a series of new dishes to be offered made from materials used by the Indians . 
Compounded and tested in her own diet kitchen by the author . 
Linda had been right about the destination of the car . 
It turned in at the Strong driveway and stopped at the door . 
John Gilman went to ring the bell and learn if Eileen were ready . 
Henry Anderson stepped from the car and wandered over the lawn , looking at the astonishing array of bushes , vines , flowers , and trees . 
From one to another he went , fingering the waxy leaves , studying the brilliant flower faces . 
Finally turning a corner and crossing the wild garden , to which he paid slight attention , he started down the other side of the house . 
The bees were buzzing over it . 
It was not a tree with which he was familiar , and stepping back , he looked at it carefully . 
He went forward instantly , picked up the sheet , and straightening it out he stood looking at it . 
Holy smoke ! he breathed softly . 
What a find ! He looked at the reverse of the sheet , his face becoming more intent every minute . 
Then he joined the party . 
At once they set out to examine the available locations that yet remained in Lilac Valley . 
Nature provided them a wonderful day of snappy sunshine and heady sea air . 
Spring favored them with lilac walls at their bluest , broken here and there with the rose misted white mahogany . 
The violet nightshade was beginning to add deeper color to the hills in the sunniest wild spots . 
The panicles of mahonia bloom were showing their gold color . 
Wild flowers were lifting leaves of feather and lace everywhere , and most agreeable on the cool morning air was a faint breath of California sage . 
Up one side of the valley , weaving in and out , up and down , over the foothills they worked their way . 
They stopped for dinner at one of the beautiful big hotels , practically filled with Eastern tourists . 
What she had expected to accomplish in her own dining room had come to her before a large audience , in which , she had no doubt , there were many envious women . 
Eileen rayed loveliness like a Mariposa lily , and purred in utter contentment like a deftly stroked kitten . 
When they parted in the evening Peter Morrison had memoranda of three locations that he wished to consider . 
Trying Yucca On her way to school that morning Linda stopped at the post office and pasted the required amount of stamps upon the package that she was mailing to New York . 
She had no difficulty in finding the place for which she was searching , and she was rather agreeably impressed with the men to whom she talked . 
She made arrangements with their buyer to call at her home in Lilac Valley at nine o'clock the following Saturday morning to appraise the articles with which she wished to part . 
Reaching home she took a note book and pencil , and studied the billiard room and the library , making a list of the furniture which she did not actually need . 
After that she began on the library shelves , listing such medical works as were of a technical nature . 
Books of fiction , history , art , and biography , and those books written by her father she did not include . 
She found that she had a long task which would occupy several evenings . 
Two months previously she would have consulted John Gilman and asked him to arrange the transaction for her . 
She would go ahead on the basis of her agreement with Eileen and do the best she could alone . 
She counted on Saturday to dispose of the furniture . 
The books might go at her leisure . 
Then the first of the week she could select such furniture as she desired in order to arrange the billiard room for her study . 
If she had a suitable place in which to work in seclusion , there need be no hurry about the library . 
She wrote Botanists have failed to mention that there is any connection between asparagus , originally a product of salt marshes , and Yucca , a product of the alkaline desert . 
Very probably there is no botanical relationship , but these two plants are alike in flavor . 
The plant grows a number of years before it decides to flower . 
When it reaches maturity it throws up a bloom stem as tender as the delicate head of asparagus , thick as one's upper arm , and running to twice one's height . 
This bloom stem in its early stages is colored the pale pink of asparagus , with faint touches of yellow , and hints of blue . 
At the most delicate time of their growth these candlesticks were roasted and eaten by the Indians . 
Based upon this knowledge , I would recommend two dishes , almost equally delicious , which may be pre . 
Take the most succulent young bloom stems when they have exactly the appearance of an asparagus head at its moment of delicious perfection . 
With a sharp knife , cut them in circles an inch in depth . 
Arrange these in a shallow porcelain baking dish , sprinkle with salt , dot them with butter , add enough water to keep them from sticking and burning . 
Use a pancake turner to slide the rings to a hot platter , and garnish with circles of hard boiled egg . 
This you will find an extremely delicate and appetizing dish . 
The second recipe I would offer is to treat this vegetable precisely as you would creamed asparagus . 
Cut the stalks in six inch lengths , quarter them to facilitate cooking and handling , and boil in salted water . 
Drain , arrange in a hot dish , and pour over a carefully made cream sauce . 
I might add that one stalk would furnish sufficient material for several families . 
The plant is hardy in the extreme , growing in the most unfavorable places , clinging tenaciously to sheer mountain and canyon walls . 
The Spaniards at times call the plant Quiota . 
He was a patient man . 
He had allowed his reason and better judgment to be swayed by Eileen's exquisite beauty and her blandishments . 
He did not regret having discovered before it was too late that Marian Thorne was not the girl he had thought her . 
He wanted a wife cut after the clinging vine pattern . 
He wanted to be the dominating figure in his home . 
It had not taken Eileen long to teach him that Marian was self assertive and would do a large share of dominating herself . 
He had thought that he was perfectly satisfied and very happy with Eileen yet that day he repeatedly had felt piqued and annoyed with her . 
He turned up his coat collar , thrust his hands in his pockets , and swore softly . 
They had left the road and followed a narrow , screened path by which they came unexpectedly into this opening . 
They had stood upon it in wordless enchantment , looking down the slope beneath it , across the peace of the valley , to the blue ranges beyond . 
Just where are we ? Peter Morrison had asked at last . 
John Gilman had been looking at a view which included Eileen . 
Oh , I envy the woman who shares this with you ! It had not been anything in particular , yet all day it had teased John Gilman's sensibilities . 
He felt ashamed of himself for not being more enthusiastic as he searched records and helped to locate the owner of that particular spot . 
He very plainly was deeply prepossessed with a location John Gilman blamed himself for not having found first . 
Certainly nature had here grown and walled a dream garden in which to set a house of dreams . 
Then the sunlight faded , night closed in , but as he went his homeward way John Gilman was thinking , thinking deeply and not at all happily . 
The Bear Cat Friday's child is loving and giving , But Saturday's child must work for a living , Linda was chanting happily as she entered the kitchen early Saturday morning . 
It's bad enough to have been born on Monday and spoiled wash day , but I call Saturday the vanishing point , the end of the extreme limit . 
Katy laughed , and , as always , turned adoring eyes on Linda . 
I am not needing ye , lambie , she said . 
Hiss , Katy , she said . 
That is a dark secret . 
Don't you be forgetting yourself and saying anything like that before anyone , or I would be ruined entirely . 
Linda caught Katy and swung her around the kitchen in a wild war dance . 
Her gayest laugh bubbled clear from the joy peak of her soul . 
Katy , she said , if you had lain awake all night trying to say something that would particularly please me , you couldn't have done better . 
That was a quaint little phrase and a true little phrase , and I know a little spot that it will fit exactly . 
What am I doing today ? Well , several things , Katy . 
First , anything you need about the house . 
And then I am going to sell the technical stuff from the library and use that money where it will be of greatest advantage to me . 
And then , Katy , I am going to manicure the Bear Cat and I am going to drive it again . 
Katy stood very still , thinking intently , but finally she said That's all right ye have got good common sense your nerves are steady your pa drilled ye fine . 
Many's the time he has bragged to me behind your back what a fine little driver he was making of ye . 
I don't know a girl of your age anywhere that has less enjoyment than ye . 
In all my days I don't think I have seen a meaner looking little baste of a car . 
Of course I'll be careful , Katy , said Linda . 
That car was not bought for its beauty . 
Its primal object in this world was to arrive . 
You have got to go the speed for which it was built . 
But I have had my training . 
I adore that car , Katy , and I don't know how I have ever kept my fingers off it this long . 
We'll go scooting through the canyons , and whizzing around the mountains , and roaring along the beach , as slick as a white sea swallow . 
Now , easy , lambie , easy , said Katy . 
Ye're planning to speed that thing before ye've got it off the jacks . 
No , that was mere talk , said Linda . 
But , Katy , this is my great day . 
I feel in my bones that I shall have enough money by night to get me some new tires , which I must have before I can start out in safety . 
Of course ye must , honey . 
I would just be tickled to pieces to let ye have what ye need . 
Linda slid her hand across Katy's lips and gathered her close in her arms . 
You blessed old darling , she said . 
Of course you would , but I don't need it , Katy . 
But here's another thing I want to tell you , Katy . 
This afternoon a male biped is coming to this house , and he's not coming to see Eileen . 
Well , with all the clothes in this house , said Katy and then she stopped and shut her lips tight and looked at Linda with belligerent Irish eyes . 
I know it , nodded Linda in acquiescence I know what you think but never mind . 
In the meantime , farewell , oh , my belovedest . 
Call me at half past eight , so I will be ready for business at nine . 
Then Linda went to the garage and began operations . 
She turned the hose on the car and washed the dust from it carefully . 
Then she dried it with the chamois skins as she often had done before . 
She carefully examined the cushioning , and finding it dry and hard , she gave it a bath of olive oil and wiped and manipulated it . 
She cleaned the engine with extreme care . 
At one minute she was running to Katy for kerosene to pour through the engine to loosen the carbon . 
It seemed to her that she had only a good start when Katy came after her . 
The business of appraising the furniture was short , and Linda was well satisfied with the price she was offered for it . 
After the man had gone she showed Katy the pieces she had marked to dispose of , and told her when they would be called for . 
She ate a few bites of lunch while waiting for the book man , and the results of her business with him quite delighted Linda . 
She had not known that the value of books had risen with the price of everything else . 
The man with whom she dealt had known her father . 
He had figured carefully and he had made Linda a far higher price than could have been secured by a man . 
As the girl went back to her absorbing task in the garage , she could see her way clear to the comforts and conveniences and the material that she needed for her work . 
she reached the car she patted it as if it had been a living creature . 
Cheer up , nice old thing , she said gaily . 
I know how to get new tires for you , and you shall drink all the gasoline and oil your tummy can hold . 
Linda began work in utter absorption . 
She succeeded in getting the car off the jacks . 
Eileen was coming down the stairs , dressed for the street . 
To Eileen's credit it may be said that she had not been told that a caller was expected . 
Linda never before had had a caller and , as always , Eileen was absorbed in her own concerns . 
What she said was Linda's working on her car . 
Then she closed the door before him and stood buttoning her gloves a wicked and malicious smile spreading over her face . 
At his step , Linda rolled her black head on the cement floor and raised her eyes . 
She dropped the grease cup , and her face reddened deeply . 
Oh , my Lord ! she gasped breathlessly . 
He was leaning forward , gazing at the car with positively an enraptured expression on his eager young face . 
Shades of Jehu ! he cried . 
It's a Bear Cat ! Linda felt around her head for the grease cup . 
Why , sure it's a Bear Cat , she said with the calmness of complete recovery . 
And it's just about ready to start for its very own cave in the canyon . 
Donald Whiting pitched his hat upon the seat , shook off his coat , and sent it flying after the hat . 
Then he began unbuttoning and turning back his sleeves . 
Here , let me do that , he said authoritatively . 
Gee ! I have never yet ridden in a Bear Cat . 
Sure , but there's no use in you getting into this mess , because I have only got two more . 
You look over the engine . 
Well , they were , said Linda . 
It was running like a watch when it went to sleep . 
But do we dare take it out on these tires ? How long has it been ? asked Donald , busy at the engine . 
All of four years , answered Linda . 
Donald whistled softly and started a circuit of the car , kicking the tires and feeling them . 
Have you filled them ? he asked . 
I did not want to start the engine until I had finished everything else . 
There is , said Linda . 
There is one only a few blocks down the street where Dad always had anything done that he did not want to do himself . 
That's that , then , said Donald . 
Linda crawled from under the car and stood up , wiping her hands on a bit of waste . 
Do you know what tires cost now ? she asked anxiously . 
They have 'em at the garage , answered Donald , and if I were you , I wouldn't get a set I would get two . 
I would put them on the rear wheels . 
You might be surprised at how long some of these will last . 
Anyway , that would be the thing to do . 
Of course , said Linda , in a relieved tone . 
That would be the thing to do . 
Now , she said , I must be excused a few minutes till I clean up so I am fit to go on the streets . 
I hope you won't think I forgot you were coming . 
When 'shoes' was the first word I heard , he said , I did not for a minute think you had forgotten . 
No , I didn't forget , said Linda . 
What I did do was to become so excited about cleaning up the car that I let time go faster than I thought it could . 
That was what made me late . 
Well , forget it ! said Donald . 
Run along and jump into something , and let us get our tires and try Kitty out . 
Linda reached up and released the brakes . 
She stepped to one side of the car and laid her hands on it . 
Oh , I'll stay out here and look around the yard and go over the car again , said the boy . 
What a bunch of stuff you have got growing here I don't believe I ever saw half of it before . 
It's Daddy's and my collection , said Linda . 
Some day I'll show you some of the things , and tell you how we got them , and why they are rare . 
Today I just naturally can't wait a minute until I try my car . 
Is it really yours ? asked Donald enviously . 
It's about the only thing on earth that is peculiarly and particularly mine . 
I haven't a doubt there are improved models , but Daddy had driven this car only about nine months . 
Oh , I don't know , said the boy . 
It looks like some little old car to me . 
I bet it can just skate . 
I know it can , said Linda , if I haven't neglected something . 
We'll start carefully , and we'll have the inspector at the salesrooms look it over . 
Then Linda entered the kitchen door to find Katy with everything edible that the house afforded spread before her on the table . 
Why , Katy , what are you doing ? she asked . 
I was makin' ready , explained Katy , to fix ye the same kind of lunch I would for Miss Eileen . 
Will ye have it under the live oak , or in the living room ? Neither , said Linda . 
Come upstairs with me , and in the storeroom you'll find the lunch case and the thermos bottles and don't stint yourself , Katy . 
This is a rare occasion . 
Probably it will never happen again . 
Let's make it high altitude while we are at it . 
I'll do my very best with what I happen to have , said Katy but I warn you right now I am making a good big hole in the Sunday dinner . 
I don't give two whoops , said Linda , if there isn't any Sunday dinner . 
In memory of hundreds of times that we have eaten bread and milk , make it a banquet , Katy , and we'll eat bread and milk tomorrow . 
Then she took the stairway at a bound , and ran to her room . 
Ln a very short time she emerged , clad in a clean blouse and breeches' her climbing boots , her black hair freshly brushed and braided . 
I ought to have something , said Linda , to shade my eyes . 
i The glare's hard on them facing the sun . 
Going down the hall she came to the storeroom , opened a drawer' and picked out a fine black felt Alpine hat that had belonged to her father . 
She looked at herself intently for a minute , and then she reached up and deliberately loosened the hair at her temples . 
Not half bad , all things considered , Linda , she said . 
But , oh , how you do need a tich of color . 
She ran down the hall and opened the door to Eileen's room , and going to her chiffonier , pulled out a drawer containing an array of gloves , veils , and ribbons . 
Sitting down , she fitted the hat over her knee , picked up the dressing table scissors , and ripped off the band . 
In its place she fitted the ribbon , pinning it securely and knotting the ends so that the fringe reached her shoulder . 
Then she tried the hat again . 
The result was blissfully satisfactory . 
The flash of orange , the blaze of red , the gleam of green , were what she needed . 
Thank you very much , sister mine , she said , I know you I would be perfectly delighted to loan me this . 
One Hundred Per Cent Plus Then she went downstairs and walked into the kitchen , prepared for what she would see , by what she heard as she approached . 
Without a word , Linda stepped to the bread board and began slicing the bread and building sandwiches , while Katy hurried her preparations for filling the lunch box . 
A few minutes later Katy packed them in the car , kissed Linda good bye , and repeatedly cautioned Donald to make her be careful . 
As the car rolled down the driveway and into the street , Donald looked appraisingly at the girl beside him . 
Is it the prevailing custom in Lilac Valley for young ladies to kiss the cook ? inquired Donald laughingly . 
Now , you just hush , said Linda . 
Katy is NOT the cook , alone . 
Katy's my father , and my mother , and my family , and my best friend Stop right there , interposed Donald . 
That is quite enough for any human to be . 
She came out to the car with the canteen , and when I offered to help her , without any 'polly foxin' , she just said 'Sure . 
Come in and make yourself useful . 
So I went , and I am expecting amazing results from the job she gave me . 
Carefully she headed the car into the garage adjoining the salesrooms . 
There she had an ovation . 
The manager and several of the men remembered her . 
When they had reached a long level stretch of roadway leading to the canyon , Linda glanced obliquely at the boy beside her . 
It all comes back as natural as breathing , she said . 
I couldn't forget it any more than I could forget how to walk , or to swim . 
I am going to step on the gas for a bit , just for old sake's sake . 
That's all right , said Donald , taking off his hat and giving his head a toss so that the wind might have full play through his hair . 
But remember our tires are not safe . 
Better not go the limit until we get rid of these old ones , and have a new set all around . 
Linda settled back in her seat , took a firm grip on the wheel , and started down the broad , smooth highway , gradually increasing the speed . 
The color rushed to her cheeks . 
Listen to it purr ! she cried to Donald . 
If you hear it begin to growl , tell me . 
And then for a few minutes they rode like birds on the path of the wind . 
When they approached the entrance to the canyon , gradually Linda slowed down . 
She turned an exultant flashing face to Donald Whiting . 
That was a whizzer , said the boy . 
I'll tell you I don't know what I'd give to have a car like this for my very own . 
I'll bet not another girl in Los Angeles has a car that can go like that . 
And I don't believe I have any business with it , said Linda but since circumstances make it mine , I am going to keep it and I am going to drive it . 
Of course you are , said Donald emphatically . 
There's not the slightest possibility of my giving it up so long as I can make the engine turn over , she said . 
I just naturally had such a heavenly time with Daddy that it never has hurt my feelings to be left out of any dance or party that ever was given . 
The one thing that has hurt is the isolation . 
Since I lost Daddy I haven't anyone but Katy . 
Ever try to make one ? asked Donald . 
There are mighty fine girls in the high school . 
I wish my sister were not so much older than you , said Donald . 
How old is your sister ? inquired Linda . 
She will be twenty three next birthday , said Donald and of all the nice girls you ever saw , she is the queen . 
Yes , she assented , I am sure I have heard your sister mentioned . 
But didn't you tell me she had been reared for society ? No , I did not , said Donald emphatically . 
I told you Mother j believed in dressing her as the majority of other girls were dressed , but I didn't say she had been reared for society . 
She has been reared with an eye single to making a well dressed , cultured , and gracious woman . 
I call that fine , said Linda . 
Makes me envious of you . 
Now forget everything except your eyes and tell me what you see . 
Have you ever been here before ? I have been through a few times before , but seems to me I never saw it looking quite so pretty . 
Linda drove carefully , but presently Donald uttered an exclamation as she swerved from the road and started down what appeared to be quite a steep embankment and headed straight for the stream . 
Sit tight , she said tersely . 
The Bear Cat just loves its cave . 
It knows where it is going . 
Crowded to one side , she stopped the car and sat quietly , smiling at Donald Whiting . 
How about it ? she asked in a low voice . 
All right , then , said Linda . 
Toe up even and I'll race YoU to the third curve where you see the big white sycamore . 
Donald had a fleeting impression of a flash of khaki , a gleam of red , and a wave of black as they started . 
He ran with all the speed he had ever attained at a track meet . 
He ran with all his might . 
Linda turned to him panting and laughing . 
Then together they slowly walked down the smooth black floor between the canyon walls . 
As they crossed a small bridge Linda leaned over and looked down . 
Anyone at your house care about 'nose twister' ? she asked lightly . 
Why , isn't that watercress ? asked Donald . 
Sure it is , said Linda . 
Anyone at your house like it ? Every one of us , answered Donald . 
For why ? Haven't you heard of the big sensation that is being made in feminine circles by the new department in Everybody's Home ? inquired Donald . 
Mother and Mary Louise were discussing it the other day at lunch , and they said that some of the recipes for dishes to be made from stuff the Indians used sounded delicious . 
One reminded them of cress , and when we saw the cress I wondered if I could get them some of the other . 
Might , said Linda drily , if you could give me a pretty good idea of what it is that you want . 
When you know cress , it's queer that you wouldn't know other things in your own particular canyon , said Donald . 
Linda realized that she had overdone her disinterestedness a trifle . 
I suspect it's miners' lettuce you want , she said . 
How it started neither of them noticed , but they had not gone far before they were climbing the walls and hanging to precarious footings . 
When at last both of them were tired they went back to the car . 
Linda spread an old Indian blanket over the least flower grown spot she could select , brought out the thermos bottles and lunch case , and served their lunch . 
With a glass of fruit punch in one hand and a lettuce sandwich in the other , Donald smiled at Linda . 
She knows how , he said appreciatively . 
Katy is more than a cook , said Linda quietly . 
She is a human being . 
She has the biggest , kindest heart . 
When anybody's sick or in trouble she's the greatest help . 
She is honest she has principles she is intelligent . 
In her spare time she reads good books and magazines . 
She knows what is going on in the world . 
She can talk intelligently on almost any subject . 
It's no disgrace to be a cook . 
If it were , Katy would be unspeakable . 
Fact is , at the present minute there's no one in all the world so dear to me as Katy . 
I always talk Irish with her . 
Well , I call that rough on your sister , said Donald . 
Maybe it is , conceded Linda . 
I suspect a lady wouldn't have i said that , but Eileen and I are so different . 
She never has made the slightest effort to prove herself lovable to me , and so I have never learned to love her . 
Which reminds me how did you happen to come to the garage ? The very beautiful young lady who opened the door mistook me for a mechanic . 
She told me I would find you working on your car and for goodness' sake to see that it was in proper condition before you drove it . 
Linda looked at him with wide , surprised eyes in which a trace of indignation was plainly discernible . 
Now listen to me , she said deliberately . 
Eileen is a most sophisticated young lady . 
If she saw you , she never in this world , thought you were a mechanic sent from a garage presenting yourself at our front door . 
There might have been a spark of malice in the big blue gray I eyes that carefully appraised me , said Donald . 
Your choice of words is good , said Linda , refilling the punch glass . 
'Appraise' fits Eileen like her glove . 
When they had finished their lunch Linda began packing the box and Donald sat watching her . 
At this point , said Linda , Daddy always smoked . 
Do you smoke ? There was a hint of deeper color in the boy's cheeks . 
Linda folded napkins and packed away accessories thoughtfully . 
Then she looked into the boy's eyes . 
Now we reach the point of our being here together , she said . 
It's time to fight , and I am sorry we didn't go at it gas and bomb the minute we met . 
You're so different from what I thought you were . 
It's too bad to I have such a good time as I have had this afternoon , and then end with a fight . 
I That's nothing , said Donald . 
You couldn't have had as good a time as I have had . 
A fellow can be just a fellow with you , and somehow you make everything you touch mean something it never meant before . 
I get you , said Linda . 
It's the difference between a girl reared in an atmosphere of georgette and rouge , and one who has grown up in the canyons with the oaks and sycamores . 
One is natural and the other is artificial . 
Most boys prefer the artificial . 
I thought I did myself , said Donald , but today has taught me that I don't . 
I think , Linda , that you would make the finest friend a fellow ever had . 
I firmly and finally decline to fight with you but for God's sake , Linda , tell me how I can beat that little cocoanut headed Jap . 
Linda slammed down the lid to the lunch box . 
Her voice was smooth and even but there was battle in her eyes and she answered decisively Well , you can't beat him calling him names . 
There is only one way on God's footstool that you can beat him . 
You can't beat him legislating against him . 
You can't beat him boycotting him . 
You can't beat him with any tricks . 
What are you studying in your classes , anyway ? Trigonometry , Rhetoric , Ancient History , Astronomy , answered Donald . 
And is your course the same as his ? inquired Linda . 
Strangely enough it is , answered Donald . 
We have been in the same classes all through high school . 
I think the little monkey Man , you mean , interposed Linda . 
Has waited until I selected my course all the way through , and then he has announced what he would take . 
He probably figured that I had somebody with brains back of the course I selected , and that whatever I studied would be suitable for him . 
I haven't a doubt of it , said Linda . 
They are quick oh ! they are quick and they know from their cradles what it is that they have in the backs of their heads . 
We are not going to beat them driving them to Mexico or to Canada , or letting them monopolize China . 
There is just one way in all this world that we can beat Eastern civilization and all that it intends to do to us eventually . 
I see what you're getting at , he said . 
I had thought that there might be some way to circumvent him . 
There is ! broke in Linda hastily . 
You can beat him , but you have got to beat him in an honorable way and in a way that is open to him as it is to you . 
I'll do anything in the world if you will only tell me how , said Donald . 
Maybe you think it isn't grinding me and humiliating me properly . 
Maybe you think Father and Mother haven't warned me . 
Maybe you think Mary Louise isn't secretly ashamed of me . 
How can I beat him , Linda ? Linda's eyes were narrowed to a mere line . 
She was staring at the wall back of Donald as if she hoped that Heaven would intercede in her favor and write thereon a line that she might translate to the boy's benefit . 
I have been watching pretty sharply , she said . 
Take them as a race , as a unit of course there are exceptions , there always are but the great body of them are mechanical . 
They are not developing anything great of their own in their own country . 
They are spreading all over the world and carrying home sewing machines and threshing machines and automobiles and cantilever bridges and submarines and aeroplanes anything from eggbeaters to telescopes . 
They are not creating one single thing . 
They are not missing imitating everything that the white man can do anywhere else on earth . 
They are just like the Germans so far as that is concerned . 
I get that , all right enough , said Donald . 
What is your deduction ? How the devil am I to beat the best ? He is perfect , right straight along in everything . 
The red in Linda's cheeks deepened . 
Her eyes opened their widest . 
She leaned forward , and with her closed fist , pounded the blanket before him . 
Then , by gracious , she said sternly , you have got to do something new . 
You have got to be perfect , PLUS . 
'Perfect , plus ? gasped Donald . 
Yes , sir ! said Linda emphatically . 
You have got to be perfect , plus . 
I tell you you must use your brains . 
You should be more than an imitator . 
You must be a creator ! Donald started up and drew a deep breath . 
Well , some job I call that , he said . 
Who do you think I am , the Almighty ? No , said Linda quietly , you are not . 
We have got to take up each subject in your course , and to find some different books treating this same subject . 
We have got to get at it from a new angle . 
We must dig into higher authorities . 
We have got to coach you till , when you reach the highest note possible for the parrot , you can go ahead and embellish it with a few mocking bird flourishes . 
All Oka Sayye knows how to do is to learn the lesson in his book perfectly , and he is per cent . 
I have told you what you must do to add the plus , and you can do it if you are the boy I take you for . 
People have talked about the 'yellow peril' till it's got to be a meaningless phrase . 
Somebody must wake up to the realization that it's the deadliest peril that ever has menaced white civilization . 
I didn't mean two people , just you and me . 
I meant all the white boys and girls of the high school and the city and the state and the whole world . 
If we are going to combat the 'yellow peril' we must combine against it . 
We have got to curb our appetites and train our brains and enlarge our hearts till we are something bigger and finer and numerically greater than this yellow peril . 
We can't take it and pick it up and push it into the sea . 
We are not Germans and we are not Turks . 
I never wanted anything in all this world worse than I want to see you graduate ahead of Oka Sayye . 
Well , there is one thing you don't take into consideration , said Donald . 
All of us did not happen to be fathered by Alexander Strong . 
Maybe we haven't all got your brains . 
Oh , posher ! said Linda . 
You have got to be constructive . 
There is no better study than to go into the canyons or the deserts and efface yourself and watch life . 
It's an all day process of the stronger annihilating the weaker . 
The one inexorable thing in the world is Nature . 
The eagle dominates the hawk the hawk , the falcon the falcon , the raven and so on down to the place where the hummingbird drives the moth from his particular trumpet flower . 
The big snake swallows the little one . 
The big bear appropriates the desirable cave . 
And is that what you are recommending people to do ? No , said Linda , it is not . 
We go a step ahead of the wild , or we ourselves become wild . 
We have brains , and with our brains we must do in a scientific way what Nature does with tooth and claw . 
In other words , and to be concrete , put these things in the car while I fold the blanket . 
The smooth , easy motion of the car , the softly purring engine were thrilling . 
The speed at which she was going was like having wings on her body . 
The mental stimulus she had experienced in concentrating her brain on Donald Whiting's problem had stimulated her imagination . 
The radiant color of spring the chilled , perfumed , golden air the sure sense of having found a friend , had ruffled the plumes of her spirit . 
And then she had laughingly added Tomorrow is Katy's turn . 
I told the old dear I would take her as soon as I felt the car was safe . 
Every day she does many things that she hopes will give me pleasure . 
This is one thing I can do that I know will delight her . 
Next Saturday , then ? questioned Donald . 
I'll be thinking up some place extra interesting . 
Come in the morning if you want , and we'll take a lunch and go for the day . 
Which do you like best , mountains or canyons or desert or sea ? I like it best wherever what you're interested in takes you , said Donald simply . 
All right , then , answered Linda , we'll combine business and pleasure . 
So they parted with another meeting arranged . 
When she reached home she found Katy tearfully rejoicing , plainly revealing how intensely anxious she had been . 
She patted Katy and started down the hallway , when she called back What is this package ? A delivery boy left it special only a few minutes ago . 
Must be something Miss Eileen bought and thought she would want tomorrow , and then afterward she got this invitation and went on as she was . 
Linda stood gazing at the box . 
It did look so suspiciously like a dress box . 
Katy , she said , I have just about got an irresistible impulse to peep . 
I was telling Eileen last night of a dress I saw that I thought perfect . 
It suited me better than any other dress I ever did see . 
It was at 'The Mode . 
This box is from 'The Mode . 
Could there be a possibility that she sent it up specially for me ? I think she would put your name on it if she meant it for ye , said Katy . 
One peep would show me whether it is my dress or not , said Linda , and peep I'm going to . 
She began untying the string . 
There's one thing , said Katy , Miss Eileen's sizes would never fit ye . 
I am taller than she is , but I could wear her waists if I wanted to , and she always alters her skirts herself to save the fees . 
Glory be ! This is my dress , and there's a petticoat and stockings to match it . 
Why , the nice old thing ! I suggested hard enough , but in my heart I hardly thought she would do it . 
Oh , dear , now if I only had some shoes , and a hat . 
Linda was standing holding the jacket in one hand , the stockings in the other , her face flaming . 
Katy drew herself to full height . 
She reached over and picked the things from Linda's fingers . 
But I have no credit anywhere and I have no money , yet , said Linda . 
Well , I have , said Katy , and this time ye're going to stop your stubbornness and take enough to get ye what you need . 
Ye go to the best store in Los Angeles and come back here with a pair of shoes that just match those stockings , and ye go fast , before the stores close . 
If ye've got to speed a little , do it in the country and do it judacious . 
Katy , you're arriving ! cried Linda . 
'Judicious speeding' is one thing I learned better than any other lesson about driving a motor car . 
Three fourths of the driving Father and I did we were speeding judiciously . 
Katy held the skirt to Linda's waist . 
Katy's fingers were shaking as she lifted the jacket and Linda slipped into it . 
Oh , Lord , she groaned , ye can't be wearing that ! The sleeves don't come much below your elbows . 
When you get the shoe money , make it enough for a blouse two blouses , Katy , one for school and one to fuss up in a little . 
Without stopping to change her clothing , Linda ran to the garage and hurried back to the city . 
It was less than an hour's run , but she made it in ample time to park her car and buy the shoes . 
She selected a pair of low oxfords of beautiful color , matching the stockings . 
In about two hours she was back with Katy and they were in her room trying on the new clothing . 
It dumbfounds me , said Linda , to have Eileen do this for me . 
The dress was of silky changeable tricolette , the skirt plain . 
Where a fold lifted and was strongly lighted , it was an exquisite silver gray where a shadow fell deeply it was gray brown . 
The coat reached half way to the knees . 
Linda perched the hat on her head , pulled it down securely , and faced Katy . 
Now then ! she challenged . 
And it's a perfect dress ! said Katy proudly , and you're just the colleen to wear it . 
My , but I wisht your father could be seeing ye the now . 
With almost reverent hands Linda removed the clothing and laid it away . 
Then she read a letter from Marian that was waiting for her , telling Katy scraps of it in running comment as she scanned the sheets . 
She likes her boarding place . 
There are nice people in it . 
She has got a wonderful view from the windows of her room . 
She thinks one of the men at Nicholson and Snow's is just fine he is helping her all he can , on the course she is taking . 
And she wants us to look carefully everywhere for any scrap of paper along the hedge or around the shrubbery on the north side of the house . 
One of her three sheets of plans is missing . 
I don't see where in the world it could have gone , Katy . 
Katy spread out her hands in despair . 
There was not a scrap of a sheet of paper in the room when I cleaned it , she said , not a scrap . 
And if I had seen a sheet flying around the yard I would have picked it up . 
She just must be mistaken about having lost it here . 
She must have opened her case on the train and lost it there . 
I can't understand , but she did have three rough sketches . 
If I ever have a house , she is going to plan it , even if she doesn't get to plan John Gilman's as he always used to say that she should . 
Ye needn't waste any sympathy on him . 
Eileen will take care that she has him so long as she thinks she wants him . 
Later it developed that Eileen had secured the invitation because she was able to produce three most eligible men . 
Not only was John Gilman with the party , but Peter Morrison and Henry Anderson were there as well . 
He had made a payment on it . 
Anderson was working on his plans . 
Contractors had been engaged , and on Monday work would begin . 
The house was to be built as soon as possible , and Peter Morrison had arranged that the garage was to be built first . 
That day was wonderful for Katy . 
She trotted after Linda over sandy desert reaches , along the seashore , up mountain trails , and through canyons connected by long stretches of motoring that was more like flying than riding . 
She was tired but happy when she went to bed . 
Monday morning she was an interested spectator as Linda dressed for school . 
Sure , and hasn't the old chrysalis opened up and let out the nicest little lady bird moth , Katy ? inquired Linda as she smoothed her gray gold skirts . 
I think myself that this dress is a trifle too good for school . 
And , too , she had very serious doubts about the dress . 
She looked at Eileen so helplessly that that astute reader of human nature immediately Suspected something . 
I sent it special , she said , because I didn't know at the time that I was going to Riverside and I wanted to work on it . 
Isn't it here yet ? Then Katy prepared to do battle for the child of her heart . 
Was the dress ye ordered sent the one Miss Linda was telling ye about ? she asked tersely . 
Yes , it was , said Eileen . 
Linda has got mighty good taste . 
Any dress she admired was sure to be right . 
She said there was a beautiful dress at 'The Mode' . 
I went and looked , and sure enough there was , a perfect beauty . 
But she wanted the dress for herself , said Katy . 
It was not a suitable dress for school , said Eileen . 
Well , it strikes me , said Katy , that it was just the spittin' image of fifty dresses I've seen ye wear to school . 
What do you know about it ? demanded Eileen . 
I know just this , said Katy with determination . 
Ye've had one new dress in the last few days and you're not needin' another . 
The blessed Virgin only knows when Miss Linda's had a dress . 
A beautiful dress it is , and on her back this minute it is ! Eileen was speechless with anger . 
Her face was a sickly white and the rouge spots on her cheeks stood a glaring admission Do you mean to tell me she gasped . 
Not again , said the daughter of Erin firmly , because I have already told ye wance . 
Linda's gone like a rag bag since the Lord knows when . 
She had a right to the dress , and she thought it was hers , and she took it . 
Eileen turned on Katy in a gust of fury . 
Katherine O'Donovan , she said shrilly , pack your trunk and see how quick you can get out of this house . 
Humph ! she said , I'll do nothing of the sort . 
I ain't working for ye and I never have been no more than I ever worked for your mother . 
Every lick I ever done in this house I done for Linda and Doctor Strong and for nobody else . 
Half of this house and everything in it belongs to Linda , and it's a mortal short time till she's of age to claim it . 
Go to wid ye , ye triflin' , lazy , self possessed creature . 
Ten years I have itched to tell ye what I thought of ye , and now ye know it . 
As Katy's rage increased , Eileen became intimidated . 
Like every extremely selfish person she was a coward in her soul . 
If you refuse to go on my orders , she said , I'll have John Gilman issue his . 
Then Katy set her left hand on her left hip , her lower jaw shot past the upper , her doubled right fist shook precious near the tip of Eileen's exquisite little nose . 
I'm darin' ye , she shouted . 
I'm just darin' ye to send John Gilman in the sound of my voice . 
If ye do , I'll tell him every mean and selfish thing ye've done to me poor lambie since the day of the Black Shadow . 
Soon her Irish sense of humor came to her rescue . 
Now , don't I hear myself telling Miss Linda a few days ago to kape her temper , and to kape cool , and to go aisy . 
Look at the aise of me when I got started . 
By gracious , wasn't I just itching to wallop her ? Then every art that Katy possessed was bent to the consummation of preparing a particularly delicious dinner for the night . 
Linda came in softly humming something to herself about the kind of shoes that you might wear if you chose . 
She had entered the high school that morning with an unusually brilliant color . 
He had foresworn whatever pleasure he might have thought of for Sunday . 
He had prepared notes on some subject that he thought would further him . 
That had made the day particularly bright for Linda . 
She had gone home with a feeling of uplift and exultation in her heart . 
As she closed the front door she cried up the stairway Eileen , are you there ? Yes , answered a rather sulky voice from above . 
Linda ascended , two steps at a bound . 
Thank you over and over , old thing ! she cried as she raced down the hallway . 
Aren't I spiffy ? She pirouetted in the doorway . 
Eileen gripped the brush she was wielding , tight . 
You have good taste , she said . 
It's a pretty dress , but You're always howling about things being suitable . 
Did you have a nice time at Riverside ? Eileen slammed down the brush and turned almost a distorted face to Linda . 
She had temper to vent . 
In the hour's reflection previous to Linda's coming , she realized that she had reached the limit with Katy . 
If she antagonized her by word or look , she would go to John Gilman , and Eileen dared not risk what she would say . 
No , I did not have a lovely time , she said . 
I had paired him with Janie on purpose to keep my eye on him . 
Linda tried hard but she could not suppress a chuckle Of course you would ! she murmured softly . 
That had been her first confidence to Linda . 
She was so aggrieved at that moment that she could have told unanswering walls her tribulations . 
It would have been better if she had done so . 
She might have been able to construe silence as sympathy . 
Linda's laughter she knew exactly how to interpret . 
Served you right , was what it meant . 
I hadn't the least notion you would take an interest in anything concerning me , she said . 
People can talk all they please about Mary Louise Whiting being a perfect lady but she is a perfect beast . 
I have met her repeatedly and she has always ignored me , and yesterday she singled out for her special attention the most desirable man in my party 'Most desirable , breathed Linda . 
Poor John ! I see his second fiasco . 
Lavender crystals , please ! Eileen caught her lip in mortification . 
She had not intended to say what she thought . 
She has everything on earth that I want she treats me like a dog , and she could give me a glorious time by merely nodding her head . 
I am quite sure you are mistaken , said Linda . 
From what I've heard of her , she wouldn't mistreat anyone . 
Very probably what she does is merely to feel that she is not acquainted with you . 
You have an unfortunate way , Eileen , of defeating your own ends . 
A ghastly greenish white flooded her face . 
What do you mean ? she gasped . 
I mean , said Linda , that Donald Whiting was calling on me , and you purposely sent him to the garage . 
Crash down among the vanities of Eileen's dressing table went her lovely head , and she broke into deep and violent sobs . 
Linda stood looking at her a second , slowly shaking her head . 
Then she turned and went to her room . 
Later in the evening she remembered the Roman scarf and told Eileen of what she had done , and she was unprepared for Eileen's reply That scarf always was too brilliant for me . 
You're welcome to it if you want it . 
Thank you , said Linda gravely , I want it very much indeed . 
Assisting Providence Linda went to the library to see to what state of emptiness it had been reduced by the removal of several pieces of furniture she had ordered taken away that day . 
As she stood on the threshold looking over the room as usual , a throb of loving appreciation of Katy swept through her heart . 
Katy had been there before her . 
On the table and the mantel stood big bowls of lovely fresh flowers . 
Linda was quite certain that anyone entering the room for the first time would have felt it completely furnished , and she doubted if even Marian would notice the missing pieces . 
Cheered in her heart , she ran up to the billiard room , and there again Katy had preceded her . 
The walls and floor had been cleaned . 
Everything was in readiness for the new furniture . 
Her heart full of gratitude , Linda went to her room , prepared her lessons for the next day , and then drew out her writing materials to answer Marian's letter . 
She wrote I have an acute attack of enlargement of the heart . 
So many things have happened since your leaving . 
But first I must tell you about your sketch . 
We just know you did not leave it here . 
You must have lost that sketch after you reached San Francisco . 
I hope to all that's peaceful you did not lay it down in the offices of Nicholson and Snow , or where you take your lessons . 
I know nothing about architecture , but I do know something about comfort in a home , and I thought that was the most comfortable and convenient looking house I ever had seen . 
Now I'll go on and tell you all the news , and I don't know which is the bigger piece to burst on you first . 
I do hope you will approve of two things I have done . 
Then Linda recounted the emptying of the billiard room , the inroads in the library , the listing of the technical books , and what she proposed to do with the money . 
It is running like the feline it is , and I am being as careful as I can . 
I know exactly how you will feel . 
It is the same feeling that has held me all these months , when I wouldn't even let myself think of it . 
But something happened at school one day , Marian . 
You know the Whitings ? Mary Louise Whiting's brother is in the senior class . 
He is a six footer , and while he is not handsome he is going to be a real man when he is fully developed , and steadied down to work . 
I think it has brought Eileen to a sense of at least partial justice about money , and it brought me back the Bear Cat . 
You know the proudest moment of my life was when Father would let me drive the little beast , and it all came back as natural as breathing . 
Please don't worry , Marian . 
Nothing shall happen , I promise you . 
It won't be necessary to tell you that Katy is her darling old self , loyal and steadfast as the sun , and quite as necessary and as comforting to me . 
But , oh , Marian , do hurry . 
Work all day and part of the night . 
She glanced back at her letter and sat looking at the closing lines and the signature . 
Much good that will do her , she commented . 
Then she went to planning . 
She had been desolate , heart hungry , and isolated herself . 
First she had endured , then she had fought the dawn of a new life was breaking over her hill . 
She had found work she was eager to do . 
She could put the best of her brain , the skill of her fingers , the creative impulse of her heart , into it . 
She was almost sure that she had found a friend . 
She had a feeling that when the coming Saturday had been lived Donald Whiting would be her friend . 
He would want her advice and her help in his work . 
She would want his companionship and the stimulus of his mind , in hers . 
What Linda had craved was a dear friend among the girls , but no girl had offered her friendship . 
This boy had , so she would accept what the gods of time and circumstance provided . 
It was a very wonderful thing that had happened to her . 
Now why could not something equally wonderful happen to Marian ? Linda wrinkled her brows and thought deeply . 
It's the worst thing in all this world to work and work with nobody to know about it and nobody to care , thought Linda . 
Marian could break a record if she thought John Gilman cared now as he used to . 
It's almost a necessary element to her success . 
If he doesn't care , she ought to be made to feel that somebody cares . 
This thing of standing alone , since I have found a friend , appeals to me as almost insupportable . 
The result was that she took some paper , went down to the library , and opening the typewriter , wrote a letter . 
She read it over , making many changes and corrections , and then she copied it carefully . 
On the last reading of the letter she had written , she decided that it was a manly , straightforward production , which should interest and attract any girl . 
Abiding , said Linda aloud . 
It seems to me that there is nothing in all the world quite so fine as a word . 
I hope it impresses Marian with all its wonderful meaning . 
She went back to her room , put both letters into her Geometry , and in the morning mailed them . 
She stood a long time hesitating with the typewritten letter in her hand , but finally dropped it in the letter box also . 
And then she slowly repeated , 'steadfast , that is another fine word . 
It has pearls and rubies all over it . 
After school that evening she visited James Brothers' and was paid the full amount of the appraisement of her furniture . 
Then she went to an art store and laid in a full supply of the materials she needed for the work she was trying to do . 
When the transaction was finished , she had a few dollars remaining . 
As she put them in her pocket she said softly That's gasoline . 
Poor Katy ! I'm glad she doesn't need her money , because she is going to have to wait for the allowance or the sale of the books or on Jane Meredith . 
But it's only a few days now , so that'll be all right . 
The Lay of the Land Linda entered the street car for her daily ride to Lilac Valley . 
She noticed Peter Morrison and Henry Anderson sitting beside each other , deeply engrossed in a drawing . 
She had been accustomed to ride in the open section of the car as she liked the fresh air . 
You sit where you belong . 
They made room for her between them and spreading the paper across her lap , all three of them began to discuss the plans for the foundation for Peter's house . 
Anderson had roughly outlined the grounds , sketching in the trees that were to be saved , the spring , and the most available route for reaching the road . 
The discussion was as to where the road should logically enter the grounds , and where the garage should stand . 
Why , that would be fine , said Peter . 
You didn't mention , the other evening , that you had a car . 
If you don't mind stacking up a bit , three can ride in it very comfortably . 
That was the way it happened that Linda walked home after school that afternoon between Peter Morrison and his architect , brought out the Bear Cat , and drove them to Peter's location . 
The soft brownish gray of Linda's dress was exactly the color to intensify the darker brown of her eyes . 
There was a fluctuating red in her olive cheeks , a brilliant red framing her even white teeth . 
Once dressed so that she was satisfied with the results , Linda immediately forgot her clothes , and plunged into Morrison's plans . 
I think you should place the front of your house about here . 
So long as you're buying a place like this you don't want to miss one single thing and you do want to make the very most possible out of every beauty you have . 
And you mustn't fail to open up and widen the runway from that energetic , enthusiastic spring . 
Carry it across your road , sure . 
It will cost you another little something for a safe bridge , but there's nothing so artistic as a bridge with a cold stream running under it . 
And think what a joyful time I'll have , gathering specimens for you of every pretty water plant that grows in my particular canyon . 
Peter Morrison looked at Linda reflectively . 
He looked for such a long moment that Henry Anderson reached a nebulous conclusion . 
Every one of those suggestions is valuable to an inexperienced man . 
Morrison , shan't I make a note of them ? Yes , Henry , you shall , said Peter . 
I am going to push this thing as fast as possible , so far as building the garage is concerned and getting settled in it . 
After that I don't care if I live on this spot until we know each other by the inch , before I begin building my home . 
At the present minute it appeals to me that 'home' is about the best word in the language of any nation . 
I have a feeling that what I build here is going to be my home , very possibly the only one I shall ever have . 
It seems to be mostly 'me' and 'mine , and it's not the real truth concerning this house . 
I don't believe there is a healthy , normal man living who has not his dream . 
I have no hesitation whatever in admitting that I have mine . 
This house must be two things . 
It has got to be a concrete workshop for me , and it has got to be an abstract abiding place for a dream . 
It's rather difficult to build a dream house for a dream lady , so I don't know what kind of a fist I am going to make of it . 
Linda sat down on a boulder and contemplated her shoes for a minute . 
Why , that's just as easy , she said . 
A home is merely a home . 
It includes a front porch and a back porch and a fireplace and a bathtub and an ice chest and a view and a garden around it all the rest is incidental . 
If you have more money , you have more incidentals . 
If you don't have so much , you use your imagination and think you have just as much on less . 
Now , I wonder , said Peter , when I find my dream lady , if she will have an elastic imagination . 
Haven't you found her yet ? asked Linda casually . 
No , said Peter , I haven't found her , and unfortunately she hasn't found me . 
I have had a strenuous time getting my start in life . 
It's mostly a rush from one point of interest to another , dropping at any wayside station for refreshment and the use of a writing table . 
Occasionally I have seen a vision that I have wanted to follow , but I never have had time . 
So far , the lady of this house is even more of a dream than the house . 
Oh , well , don't worry , said Linda comfortingly . 
The world is full of the nicest girls . 
Morrison turned to Henry Anderson . 
You hear , Henry ? he said . 
I'm destined to have a large family . 
You must curtail your plans for the workroom and make that big room back of it into a nursery . 
Well , what I am going to do , said Henry Anderson , is to build a place suitable for your needs . 
If any dream woman comes to it , she will have to fit herself to her environment . 
Now , that isn't a bit nice of you , she said , and I don't believe Peter will pay the slightest attention to you . 
He'll let me make you build a lovely room for the love of his heart , and a great big bright nursery on the sunny side for his small people . 
I never believed , said Henry Anderson , in counting your chickens before they are hatched . 
There are a couple of acres around Peter's house , and he can build an addition as his needs increase . 
Messy idea , said Linda promptly . 
And I'll tell you another thing . 
With the records at the patent office open to the world , you can't claim that the brain of the white man is not constructive . 
We are head and shoulders above other nations in invention , and just as fast as possible , we are falling behind in the birth rate . 
You see what I mean ? Linda lifted her frank eyes to Peter Morrison . 
Yes , young woman , said Peter gravely , I see what you mean , but this is the first time I ever heard a high school kid propound such ideas . 
I see , said Peter Morrison . 
We'll have to take time to talk this over . 
It's barely possible I might be able to suggest something . 
You let that kid fight his own battles , said Henry Anderson roughly . 
He's no proper bug catcher . 
I feel it in my bones . 
For the first time , Linda's joy laugh rang over Peter Morrison's possession . 
I don't know about that , she said gaily . 
He's a wide awake specimen he has led his class for four years when the Jap didn't get ahead of him . 
Nightmares , you mean , said Henry Anderson . 
I can't imagine a bunch of kids muddying up this spring and breaking the bushes and using slingshots on the birds . 
Well , your estimate is too low , Linda , he said in his nicest drawling tone of voice . 
Believe me , one U. S. kid will never march in a whole regiment of Japanese . 
They won't lay down their guns and walk to surrender as bunches of Germans did . 
Nobody need ever think that . 
They are as good fighters as they are imitators . 
There's nothing for you to do , Henry , but to take to heart what Miss Linda has said . 
Plan the house with a suite for a dream lady , and a dining room , a sleeping porch and a nursery big enough for the six children allotted to me . 
You're not really in earnest ? asked Henry Anderson in doubting astonishment . 
I am in the deepest kind of earnest , said Peter Morrison . 
What Miss Linda says is true . 
As a nation , our people are pampering themselves and living for their own pleasures . 
Well , if that is the way you see the light , we must enlarge this house . 
As designed , it included every feminine convenience anyway . 
But when I build my house I am going to build it for myself . 
My heart is perfectly set on a brood of six . 
Are we keeping you too late ? inquired Peter . 
No , said Linda , I am as interested as I can be . 
Finish everything you want to do before we go . 
I hope you're going to let me come over often and watch you with your building . 
Maybe I can get an idea for some things I want to do . 
Eileen and I have our house divided by a Mason and Dixon line . 
On her side is Mother's suite , the dining room , the living room and the front door . 
On mine there's the garage and the kitchen and Katy's bedroom and mine and the library and the billiard room . 
At the present minute I am interested in adapting the library to my requirements instead of Father's , and I am emptying the billiard room and furnishing it to make a workroom . 
Linda turned to Henry Anderson , and with trembling lips and paling cheeks , in a few brief sentences she gave him the details . 
Then she said to Peter Morrison in a low voice And that is the why of Marian Thorne's white head . 
Anybody tell you that ? That white head puzzled me beyond anything I ever saw , he said . 
I meant to ask John about it . 
Well , there's nothing the matter with my tongue , said Linda . 
It's loose at both ends . 
Marian was an expert driver . 
She drove with the same calm judgment and precision and graceful skill that she does everything else , but the curve was steep and something in the brakes was defective . 
It broke with a snap and there was not a thing she could do . 
Enough was left of the remains of the car to prove that . 
Ten days afterward her head was almost as white as snow . 
Before that it was as dark as mine . 
But her body is just as young and her heart is just as young and her face is even more beautiful . 
I do think that a white crown makes her lovelier than she was before . 
I have known Marian ever since I can remember , and I don't know one thing about her that I could not look you straight in the eye and tell you all about . 
There is not a subterfuge or an evasion or a small mean deceit in her soul . 
She is the brainiest woman and the biggest woman I know . 
I haven't a doubt of it , said Peter Morrison . 
And while you are talking about nice women , we met a mighty fine one at Riverside on Sunday . 
Her name is Mary Louise Whiting . 
Do you know her ? Not personally , said Linda . 
I don't recall that I ever saw her . 
I know her brother , Donald . 
He is the high school boy who is having the wrestle with the Jap . 
I liked her too , said Henry Anderson . 
Male birds make a splendid record carrying nest material . 
What is true is that in the majority of cases the female does the building . 
Well , what I am getting at , said Henry Anderson , is this . 
I might be able to make some suggestion that would help you . 
Now that is positively sweet of you , said Linda . 
I never thought of such a thing as either comfort or convenience . 
No workroom really has a soul if you can't smell smoke and see red when you go to it at night . 
You little outdoor heathen , laughed Peter Morrison . 
One would think you were an Indian . 
I am a fairly good Indian , said Linda . 
I have been scouting around with my father a good many years . 
How about it , Peter ? Does the road go crooked ? Yes , said Peter , the road goes crooked . 
Including the bridge ? inquired Linda . 
Including the bridge , said Peter . 
I'll have to burn some midnight oil , but I can visualize the bridge . 
He turned his face toward the length of Lilac Valley and stood , very tall and straight , looking far away before him . 
Presently he looked down at Linda . 
Even so , he said softly . 
My shoulders are broad enough I have a brain and I am not afraid to work . 
If my heart is not quite big enough yet , I see very clearly how it can be made to expand . 
I have been told , said Linda in a low voice , that Mary Louise Whiting is a perfect darling . 
Peter looked at her from the top of her black head to the tips of her brown shoes . 
He could have counted the freckles bridging her nose . 
I was not thinking of Miss Whiting , he said soberly . 
Now he turned his back and commenced talking about plans , but in his heart he said So that's the lay of the land . 
You've got to hustle yourself , Henry , or you won't have the ghost of a show . 
Later , when they motored down the valley and stopped at the Strong residence , Peter refused to be monopolized by Eileen . 
I don't see my way clear to lumber and glass and bricks and chimney pieces . 
Peter looked at Henry , and Henry looked at Peter , and a male high sign , ancient as day , passed between them . 
Easiest thing in the world , said Peter . 
Linda's eyes opened wide and dewy with surprise and pleasure . 
Why , you two perfectly nice men ! she said . 
I haven't felt as I do this minute since I lost Daddy . 
It's wonderful to be taken care of . 
It's better than cream puffs with almond flavoring . 
Henry Anderson looked at Linda keenly . 
You're the darndest kid ! he said . 
One minute you're smacking your lips over cream puffs , and the next you're going to the bottom of the yellow peril . 
I never before saw your combination in one girl . 
What's the explanation ? For the second time that evening Linda's specialty in rapture floated free . 
Then they went downstairs , and the men refused both Eileen's and Linda's invitation to remain for dinner . 
When they had gone Eileen turned to Linda with a discontented and aggrieved face . 
In the name of all that's holy , what are you doing or planning to do ? she demanded . 
Not anything that will cost you a penny beyond my natural rights , said Linda quietly . 
That is not answering my question , said Eileen . 
You're not of age and you're still under the authority of a guardian . 
If you can't answer me , possibly you can him . 
Shall I send John Gilman to ask what I want to know of you ? When did I ever ask you any questions about what you chose to do ? asked Linda . 
I am merely following the example that you have previously set me . 
John Gilman and I used to be great friends . 
It might help both of us to have a family reunion . 
Send him by all means . 
You used to take pride , suggested Eileen , in leading your class . 
And has anyone told you that I am not leading my class at the present minute ? asked Linda . 
No , said Eileen , but what I want to point out to you is that the minute you start running with the boys you will quit leading your class . 
Don't you believe it , said Linda quietly . 
I'm not built that way . 
I shan't concentrate on any boy to the exclusion of chemistry and geometry , never fear it . 
Then she thoughtfully ascended the stairs and went to work . 
She was jealous of her . 
And why had she ever allowed Linda to keep the runabout ? It was not proper that a young girl should own a high powered car like that . 
It was not proper that she should drive it and go racing around the country , heaven knew where , and with heaven knew whom . 
Eileen bit her lip until it almost bled . 
Her eyes were hateful and her hands were nervous as she reviewed the past week . 
The thing that rankled was that the car belonged to Linda . 
The touring car which she might have owned and driven , had she so desired , lay in an extremely slender string of pearls around her neck at that instant . 
I've been a fool , said Eileen , tugging at the pearls viciously . 
They are nothing but a little bit of a string that looks as if I were trying to do something and couldn't , at best . 
What I've got to do is to think more of myself . 
I've got to plan some way to prevent Linda from being too popular until I really get my mind made up as to what I want to do . 
Leavening the Bread of Life 'A house that is divided against itself cannot stand , quoted Linda . 
I must keep in mind what Eileen said , not that there is the slightest danger , but to fall behind in my grades is a thing that simply must not happen . 
First thing I do I must go through Father's books and get the money for them , so I'll know my limitation when I come to select furniture . 
And I don't know that I am going to be so terribly modest when it comes to naming the sum with which I'll be satisfied for my allowance . 
Possibly I shall exercise my age old prerogative and change my mind I may just say 'half' right out loud and stick to it . 
Since the editor of Everybody's Home has started my department and promised that if it goes well he will give it to me permanently , I can certainly depend on something from that . 
He has used my Introduction and two instalments now . 
I should think it might be fair to talk payments pretty soon . 
He should give me fifty dollars for a recipe with its perfectly good natural history and embellished with my own vegetable and floral decorations . 
I just have to keep him interested until he gets going of his own accord , because he shall beat Oka Sayye . 
I have never seen anything I dislike more than the oily , stiff , black hair standing up on it like menacing bristles . 
And there is one thing that I have to remember to caution Donald about . 
He must carry on this contest in a perfectly open , fair , and aboveboard way , and he simply must not antagonize Oka Sayye . 
There are so many of the Japs . 
They all look so much alike , and there's a blood brotherhood between them that will make them protect each other to the death against any white man . 
It wouldn't be safe for Donald to make Oka Sayye hate him . 
I don't know what it was , but whatever it was it was something repulsive . 
With this thought in her mind Linda walked slowly as she approached the high school the next time . 
Far down the street , over the walks and across the grounds , her eyes were searching eagerly for the tall slender figure of Donald Whiting . 
She did not see him in the morning , but at noon she encountered him in the hall . 
Looking for you , he cried gaily when he saw her . 
I've got my pry in on Trig . 
Good for you ! Joyous congratulations ! You've got the idea ! cried Linda . 
Go to it ! Start something all along the line , but make it something founded on brains and reason and common sense . 
But , Donald , I was watching for you . 
I wanted to say a word . 
Donald Whiting bent toward her . 
The faintest suspicion of a tinge of color crept into his cheeks . 
That's fine , he said . 
What was it you wanted ? Only this , she said in almost a breathless whisper . 
Don't be too precipitate about what you're trying to do . 
Try to make it appear that you're developing ideas for the interest and edification of the whole class . 
Don't incur his personal enmity . 
You think I am afraid of that little jiu jitsu ? , he scoffed . 
I can lick him with one hand . 
I haven't a doubt of it , said Linda , measuring his height and apparent strength and fitness . 
I haven't a doubt of it . 
He looked at Linda amazed . 
Wouldn't that be going rather far ? he asked . 
I think I have some fairly good friends among the fellows , but I don't know just whom I would want to ask to do me that small favor . 
That is precisely the point , cried Linda . 
You haven't a friend you would ask and you haven't a friend who would do it , if you did . 
Um hm , said Donald Whiting . 
He was looking far past Linda and now his eyes were narrowed in thought . 
I believe you're RIGHT about it . 
I've thought of you so often since I tried to spur you to beat Oka Sayye , said Linda . 
I feel a sort of responsibility for you . 
Now that's foolishness , said Donald earnestly . 
He's the greatest old scout , and was mightily interested . 
He went at once and opened a box of books in the garret and dug out some stuff that will be a big help to me . 
Yes , it is ! said Linda , sending a straight level gaze deep into his eyes . 
Sure you're going to beat him . 
Fat chance I have not to , said Donald , laughing ruefully . 
You're mighty right about it . 
I have got to beat him or disgrace myself right at the beginning of my nice young career . 
Of course you'll beat him , said Linda . 
At what hour did you say I should come , Saturday ? Oh , come with the lark for all I care , said Linda . 
Early morning in the desert is a mystery and a miracle , and the larks have been there just long enough to get their voices properly tuned for their purest notes . 
Then she turned and hurried away . 
Her first leisure minute after reaching home she went to the library wearing one of Katy's big aprons , and carrying a brush and duster . 
It was while handling these volumes that Linda shifted several of the books written by her father , to separate them from those with which she meant to part . 
She picked it up and found it was a letter from the publishers of the book . 
Linda's eyes widened suddenly as she read MY DEAR STRONG Sending you a line of congratulations . 
Very truly yours , The signature was that of Frederic Dickman , the editor of one of the biggest publishing houses of the country . 
Hm , she said to herself softly . 
Now that is a queer thing . 
That letter was written nearly five years ago . 
I don't know why I never thought of royalties since Daddy went . 
I frequently heard him mention them before . 
I suppose they're being paid to John Gilman as administrator , or to the Consolidated Bank , and cared for with Father's other business . 
There's no reason why these books should not keep on selling . 
There are probably the same number of young men , if not a greater number , studying medicine every year . 
I wonder now , about these royalties . 
I must do some thinking . 
Then Linda began to examine books more carefully than before . 
It is paid to his bank . 
I don't suppose , said Linda casually , it would amount to enough to keep one in shoes these inflated days . 
Oh , I don't know about that , said John testily . 
I have seen a few of those cheques in your Father's time . 
You should be able to keep fairly well supplied with shoes . 
So I should , said Linda drily . 
Then she led him to the back of the house and talked the incident out of his mind as cleverly as possible by giving him an intensive botanical study of Cotyledon . 
But she could not interest him quite so deeply as she had hoped , for presently he said Eileen tells me that you're parting with some of the books . 
Only technical ones for which I could have no possible use , said Linda . 
I see , said John Gilman . 
That's what I have always thought myself , said Linda but Eileen doesn't agree with me , and she handles the money . 
When the first of the month comes , we are planning to go over things together , and she is going to make me a proper allowance . 
That is exactly as it should be , said Gilman . 
I never realized till the other night at dinner that you have grown such a great girl , Linda . 
I haven't seen you often lately . 
No , said Linda , but I don't feel that it is exactly my fault . 
Marian and I were always pals . 
When I saw that you preferred Eileen , I kept with Marian to comfort her all I could . 
I don't suppose she cared , particularly . 
She couldn't have , or she would at least have made some effort to prevent Eileen from monopolizing you . 
She probably was mighty glad to be rid of you but since you had been together so much , I thought she might miss you , so I tried to cover your defection . 
He stood very still , while he seemed deeply thoughtful . 
Then she turned and went to the garage , leaving John to his visit with Eileen . 
The Eileen who took possession of John was an Eileen with whom he was not acquainted . 
This evening , for the first time , it seemed to him that Eileen was not so beautiful a woman as he had thought her . 
Something had roiled the blood in her delicate veins until it had muddied the clear freshness of her smooth satiny skin . 
There was discontent in her eyes , which were her most convincing attraction . 
They were big eyes , wide open and candid . 
She had so trained them through a lifetime of practice that she could meet other eyes directly while manipulating her most dextrous evasion . 
Whenever Eileen was most deceptively subtle , she was looking straight at her victim with the innocent appeal of a baby in her gaze . 
John Gilman had had his struggle . 
He had watched , and waited , and worked incessantly , and when his opportunity came he was ready . 
Success had come to such a degree that in a short time he had assured himself of comfort for any woman he loved . 
He knew that his appearance was quite as pleasing as that of his friend . 
He knew that in manner and education they were equals . 
He was now handling large business affairs . 
He had made friends in high places . 
Whenever Eileen was ready , he would build and furnish a home he felt sure would be equal , if not superior , to what Morrison was planning . 
While no definite plans had been made , there had been endless assumption . 
Many times they had talked of the home they would make together . 
The day at Riverside had been an enigma he could not solve . 
Eileen was gay to a degree that was almost boisterous . 
She had attracted attention and comment which no well bred woman would have done . 
The growing discontent in John's soul had increased under Linda's direct attack . 
He had known Linda since she was four years old and had been responsible for some of her education . 
A thing patent to the eye of every man who turned an appraising look upon Linda always had been one of steadfast loyalty . 
You could depend upon her . 
She was the counterpart of her father and Doctor Strong had been loved by other men . 
Wherever he had gone he had been surrounded . 
His figure had been one that attracted attention . 
When he had spoken , his voice and what he had to say had commanded respect . 
And then there had emanated from him that peculiar physical charm which gives such pleasing and distinguished personality to a very few people in this world . 
This gift too had descended to Linda . 
She could sit and look straight at you with her narrow , interested eyes , smile faintly , and make you realize what she thought and felt without opening her lips . 
He had found her so interesting himself that he had paid slight attention to Eileen's pouting . 
Tonight he was forced to study Eileen , for the sake of his own comfort to try to conciliate her . 
He was uncomfortable because he was unable to conduct himself as Eileen wished him to , without a small sickening disgust creeping into his soul . 
If you weren't blind you'd know without asking , retorted Eileen hotly . 
Then I am 'blind , for I haven't the slightest notion . 
For the love of Mike ! said John Gilman . 
And the garden was your sole subject of conversation ? inquired Eileen , implied doubt conveyed nicely . 
No , it was not , answered Gilman , all the bulldog in his nature coming to the surface . 
As I knew perfectly , said Eileen . 
I admit that I'm not feeling myself . 
Things began going wrong recently , and everything has gone wrong since . 
I think it all began with Marian Thorne's crazy idea of selling her home and going to the city to try to ape a man . 
Marian never tried to ape a man in her life , said John , instantly yielding to a sense of justice . 
She is as strictly feminine as any woman I ever knew . 
Do you mean to say that you think studying architecture is a woman's work ? sneered Eileen . 
Yes , I do , said Gilman emphatically . 
They're in them nine tenths of the time to a man's one tenth . 
Next to rocking a cradle I don't know of any occupation in this world more distinctly feminine than the planning of comfortable homes for homekeeping people . 
Eileen changed the subject swiftly . 
What was Linda saying to you ? she asked . 
There's not a possible thing to make life uncomfortable for me that she is not doing . 
There's one thing you must take into consideration , Eileen . 
The time has come when she should have clothes and liberty and opportunity to shape her life according to her inclinations . 
Let me tell you she will attract attention in georgette and laces . 
And where are the georgette and laces to come from ? inquired Eileen sarcastically . 
All outgo and no income for four years is leaving the Strong finances in mighty precarious shape , I can tell you . 
All right , said Gilman , I'm financially comfortable now . 
We'll select our location and build our home , and let Linda have what there is of the Strong income till she is settled in life . 
You have pretty well had all of it for the past four years . 
Yes , said Eileen furiously , I have 'pretty well' had it , in a few little dresses that I have altered myself and very frequently made entirely . 
I have done the best I could , shifting and skimping , and it's not accomplished anything that I have really wanted . 
According to men , the gas and the telephone and the electric light and the taxes and food and cook pay for themselves . 
All a woman ever spends money on is clothes ! Eileen , chuckled John Gilman , this sounds exactly as if we were married , and we're not , yet . 
No , said Eileen , thank heaven we're not . 
Then , from stress of nerve tension and long practice , some big tears gushed up and threatened to overflow Eileen's lovely eyes . 
That never should happen , for tears are salt water and they cut little rivers through even the most carefully and skillfully constructed complexion , while Eileen's was looking its worst that evening . 
She hastily applied her handkerchief , and John Gilman took her into his arms so the remainder of the evening it was as if they were not married . 
When he left Eileen that night , it was with a heavy heart . 
Saturday's Child Throughout the week Linda had worked as never during her life previously , in order to save Saturday for Donald Whiting . 
She ran the Bear Cat down to the garage and had it looked over once more to be sure that everything was all right . 
Friday evening , on her way from school , she stopped at a grocery where she knew Eileen kept an account , and for the first time ordered a few groceries . 
These she carried home with her , and explained to Katy what she wanted . 
At six o'clock Saturday morning Linda ran the Bear Cat to the back door , where she and Katy packed it . 
Can't be done , Katy , cried Donald . 
Ye must have a poor opinion of us , laughed Katy , if ye are thinking ye can get to the end of our limitations in one lunch . 
Fourteen years me and Miss Linda's been on this lunch box stunt . 
Don't ye be thinkin' ye can exhaust us in any wan trip , or in any wan dozen . 
So they said good bye to Katy and rolled past Eileen's room on the way to the desert . 
Eileen stood at the window watching them , and never had her heart been so full of discontent and her soul the abiding place of such envy or her mind so busy . 
Just when she had thought life was going to yield her what she craved , she could not understand how or why things should begin to go wrong . 
As the Bear Cat traversed Lilac Valley , Linda was pointing out Peter Morrison's location . 
Well , I call that mighty decent of a stranger , said Donald . 
But he is scarcely more of a stranger than I am , answered Linda . 
He is interested in humanity . 
It's the business of every man in this world to reach out and help every boy with whom he comes in contact into the biggest , finest manhood possible . 
Maybe , when we come in this evening , I'll run up to his place , and you can talk it over with him . 
If your father helped you at one angle , it's altogether probable that Peter Morrison could help you at another . 
Donald Whiting rubbed his knee reflectively . 
He was sitting half turned in the wide seat so that he might watch Linda's hands and her face while she drove . 
Well , that's all right , he said heartily . 
You can write me down as willing and anxious to take all the help I can get , for it's going to be no microscopic job , that I can tell you . 
Since I've been studying him and watching him , I have come to the conclusion that he is much older than I am . 
Something he said in class yesterday made me think he had probably had the best schooling Japan could give him before he came here . 
The next time you meet him look for a suspicion of gray hairs around his ears . 
He's too blamed comprehensive for the average boy of my age . 
Linda nodded as she shot the Bear Cat across the streetcar tracks and headed toward the desert . 
The engine was purring softly as it warmed up . 
The car was running smoothly . 
All the world was coming to the exquisite bloom of a half tropical country . 
They were two young things , free for the day , flying down a perfect road , adventuring with Providence . 
She glanced across at him and found him looking at her . 
A smile broke over her lips . 
One of her most spontaneous laughs bubbled up in her throat . 
Topping , isn't it ! she cried gaily . 
It's the best thing that ever happened to me , answered Donald Whiting instantly . 
Our car is a mighty good one and Dad isn't mean about letting me drive it . 
And I never even had a ride in one before . 
I can't get over the fact that it's yours . 
It wouldn't seem so funny if it belonged to one of the fellows . 
With steady hand and gradually increasing speed , Linda put the Bear Cat over the roads of early morning . 
Sometimes she stopped in the shade of pepper , eucalyptus , or palm , where the larks were specializing in their age old offertory . 
And then again they went racing until they reached the real desert . 
Linda ran the car under the shade of a tall clump of bloom whitened alders . 
She took off her hat , loosened the hair at her temples , and looked out across the long morning stretch of desert . 
It's just beginning to be good , she said . 
She began pointing with her slender hand . 
That gleam you see over there is the gold of a small clump of early poppies . 
The purple beyond it is lupin . 
All these exquisite colors on the floor are birds' eyes and baby blue eyes , and the misty white here and there is forget me not . 
It won't be long til thousands and thousands of yucca plants will light their torches all over the desert and all the alders show their lacy mist . 
Of course you know how exquisitely the Spaniards named the yucca 'Our Lord's Candles . 
Isn't that the prettiest name for a flower , and isn't it the prettiest thought ? It certainly is , answered Donald . 
Had any experience with the desert ? Linda asked lightly . 
Hunted sage hens some , answered Donald . 
Oh , well , that'll be all right , said Linda . 
I wondered if you'd go murdering yourself like a tenderfoot . 
What's the use of all this artillery ? inquired Donald as he stepped from the car . 
Better put on your hat . 
You're taller than most of the bushes you'll find slight shade , cautioned Linda . 
The use is purely a matter of self protection . 
First thing we are going to get is some soap . 
Great hat ! exclaimed Donald . 
If you wanted soap why didn't you bring some ? For all you know , laughed Linda , I may be going to education you up a little . 
Dare you to tell me how many kinds of soap I can find today that the Indians used , and where I can find it . 
Couldn't tell you one to save my life , said Donald . 
And born and reared within a few miles of the desert ! scoffed Linda . 
We take our choice today between finding deer brush and digging for amole , because the mock oranges aren't ripe enough to be nice and soapy yet . 
I've got the deer brush spotted , and we'll pass an amole before we go very far . 
Look for a wavy blue green leaf like a wide blade of grass and coming up like a lily . 
So together they went to the deer brush and gathered a bunch of flowers that Linda bound together with some wiry desert grass and fastened to her belt . 
It was not long before Donald spied an amole , and having found one , discovered many others growing near . 
Then Linda led the way past thorns and brush , past impenetrable beds of cholla , until they reached a huge barrel cactus that she had located with the glasses . 
Beside this bristling monstrous growth Linda paused , and reached for the axe , which Donald handed to her . 
She drew it lightly across the armor protecting the plant . 
Short of Victrola needles ? she inquired . 
Because if you are , these make excellent ones . 
A lot more singing quality to them than the steel needles , not nearly so metallic . 
Well , I am surely going to try that , said Donald . 
Never heard of such a thing . 
Linda chopped off a section of plant . 
Then she picked one of the knives from the bucket and handed it to him . 
All right , you get what you want , she said , while I operate on the barrel . 
Jove , that is good ! said Donald . 
What are you going to do with it ? Show you later , laughed Linda . 
Think I'll take a sip myself . 
Then by a roundabout route they started on their return to the car . 
I never saw that before , said Donald . 
What are you going to do with it ? Use it on whichever of us gets the first snake bite , said Linda . 
Is that what you do ? inquired Donald . 
I don't go through the desert exhaling the odor of fright , and so snakes lie quiescent or slip away so silently that I never see them . 
Now what on earth do you mean by that ? inquired Donald . 
Why that is the very first lesson Daddy ever taught me when he took me to the mountains and the desert . 
If you are afraid , your system throws off formic acid , and the animals need only the suspicion of a scent of it to make them ready to fight . 
Any animal you encounter or even a bee , recognizes it . 
Now , that is something new to think about , said Donald . 
And it's something that is very true , said Linda . 
I have seen it work times without number . 
If you start out in accord , at one with Nature , you're quite as safe as you are at home , sometimes more so . 
But if you start out to stir up a fight , the occasion is very rare on which you can't succeed . 
And that reminds me , said Donald , with a laugh , that a week ago I came to start a fight with you . 
What has become of that fight we were going to have , anyway ? You can search me , laughed Linda , throwing out her hands in a graceful gesture . 
Donald looked at Linda thoughtfully . 
By the great hocus pocus , he said , you know , I believe you . 
He always has been fundamental in his process of thought . 
He gets right back to the heart of primal things . 
When he wrote that line he was not really thinking that there was a nasty poison in the heart of a woman or death in her hands . 
And that is the origin of the much discussed line concerning the female of the species , and it holds good fairly well down the line of the wild . 
It's even true among such tiny things as guinea pigs and canary birds . 
There is a mother element in the heart of every girl . 
Daddy used to say that half the women in the world married the men they did because they wanted to mother them . 
You can't tell what is in a woman's heart by looking at her . 
Sounds primitive , doesn't it ? It sounds true , said Donald reflectively . 
I see , young lady , where one is going to have to measure his words and think before he talks to you . 
Pretty thought ! said Linda lightly . 
We'll have a great time if you must stop to consider every word before you say it . 
I have got nothing in this world to fight with you about since you're doing your level best to beat Oka Sayye . 
I have watched your head above the remainder of your class for three years and wanted to fight with you on that point . 
It's a matter of perfect indifference to me . 
You can wear French heels or baby pumps , or go barefoot . 
You would still be you . 
Is it a truce ? asked Linda . 
I No , ma'am , said Donald , it's not a truce . 
That implies war and we haven't fought . 
It's not armed neutrality it's not even watchful waiting . 
It's my friend , Linda Strong . 
Me for her and her for me , if you say so . 
He reached out his hand . 
Linda laid hers in it , and looking into his eyes , she said That is a compact . 
We'll test this friendship business and see what there is to it . 
Now come on let's run for the canyon . 
I can see , said Linda , a stronger tinge in the green . 
There are more flowers in the carpet . 
There is more melody in the birds' song . 
We are going to have a better time than we had last Saturday . 
First let's fix up our old furnace , because we must have a fire today . 
So they left the car , and under Linda's direction they reconstructed the old fireplace at which the girl and her father had cooked when botanizing in Multiflores . 
With a small field axe she chopped a couple of small green branches , pointed them to her liking , and peeled them . 
Then she made a poker from one of the saplings they had used to move the rocks , and beat down her fire until she had a bright bed of deep coals . 
Then she came back to the fire and , sitting down beside it , opened the package and began her operations . 
This she repeated until her skewer would bear no more weight . 
Then she laid it across the rocks walling her fire , occasionally turning it while she filled the second skewer . 
Then she brought from the car the bucket of pulp she had taken from the barrel cactus , transferred it to a piece of cheesecloth and deftly extracted the juice . 
From a small , metal lined compartment , Linda took a chunk of ice and dropped it into this mixture . 
She was sitting on the ground , one foot doubled under her , the other extended . 
She had taken off her hat the wind and the bushes had roughened her hair . 
Exercise had brought deep red to her cheeks and her lips . 
Happiness had brought a mellow glow to her dark eyes . 
She had turned back her sleeves , and her slender hands were fascinatingly graceful in their deft handling of everything she touched . 
They were a second edition of the hands with which Alexander Strong had felt out defective nerve systems and made delicate muscular adjustments . 
She was wholly absorbed in what she was doing . 
Sitting on the blanket across from her Donald Whiting was wholly absorbed in her and he was thinking . 
He was planning how he could please her , how he could earn her friendship . 
All these things had been amusing . 
But he had nothing to show for the time he had spent or the money he had wasted . 
Nothing had happened that in any way equipped him for his battle with Oka Sayye . 
It was very certain that the exercise he was giving his brain must be beneficial . 
She had been coming to the mountains and the canyons alone , for four years doing by herself what she would have done under her father's supervision had he lived . 
That argued for steadfastness and strength of character . 
She would not utter one word of flattery . 
She would say nothing she did not mean . 
Watching her intently , Donald Whiting thought of all these things . 
He thought of what she had said about fighting for him , and he wondered if it really was true that any girl he knew would fight for him . 
He hardly believed it when he remembered some of his friends , so entirely devoted to personal adornment and personal gratification . 
But Linda had said that all women were alike in their hearts . 
She knew about other things . 
She must know about this . 
He knew no other girl who was master of the secrets of the desert and the canyons and the mountains . 
Certainly he knew no other girl who would tug at great boulders and build a fireplace and risk burning her fingers and scorching her face to prepare a meal for him . 
So he watched Linda and so he thought . 
Linda , he asked suddenly , do you know that one of these days you're going to be a beautiful woman ? Linda turned her skewers with intense absorption . 
For goodness' sake , have an eye single to your record for truth and veracity , said Linda . 
Doesn't this begin to smell zippy ? It certainly does , said Donald . 
But honest , Linda , you are a pretty girl . 
Honest , your foot ! said Linda scornfully . 
I am not a pretty girl . 
I am lean and bony and I've got a beak where I should have a nose . 
Speaking of pretty girls , my sister , Eileen , is a pretty girl . 
She is a downright beautiful girl . 
Yes , said Donald , she is , but she can't hold a candle to you . 
I can't remember her when she was not curled , and even when she was a tiny thing Mother put a dust of powder on her nose . 
She said her skin was so delicate that it could not bear the sun . 
She never could run or play or motor much or do anything , because she has always had to be saved for the sole purpose of being exquisitely beautiful . 
Talk about lilies of the field , that's what Eileen is ! She is an improvement on the original lily of the field she's a lily of the drawing room . 
Me , now , I'm more of a Joshua tree . 
Donald Whiting laughed , as Linda intended that he should . 
Fall to , she said , and prove that you're a man with an appreciative tummy . 
Father used to be positively ravenous for this stuff . 
She slid the food from the second skewer to a pan for herself , settled the fire to her satisfaction and they began their meal . 
Presently she filled a cup from the bucket beside her and handed it to Donald . 
At the same time she lifted another for herself . 
Here's to the barrel cactus , she said . 
May the desert grow enough of them so that we'll never lack one when we want to have a Saturday picnic . 
Laughingly they drank this toast and the skewers were filled a second time . 
Together they admired delicate and exquisite ferns growing around great gray boulders . 
Donald tasted hunters' rock leek , and learned that any he found while on a hunting expedition would furnish a splendid substitute for water . 
When they were tired out they went back to the dining room and after resting a time , they made a supper from the remnants of their dinner . 
When they were seated in the car and Linda's hand was on the steering wheel , Donald reached across and covered it with his own . 
Wait a bit , he said . 
Before we leave here I want to ask you a question and I want you to make me a promise . 
All right , said Linda . 
She looked at Donald reflectively . 
I don't see that you are in any way in my debt , Donald . 
All right then , said the boy , that brings me to the promise I want you to make me . 
May we always have our Saturdays together like this ? Sure ! said Linda , I would be mightily pleased . 
I'll have to work later at night and scheme , maybe . 
By good rights Saturday belongs to me anyway because I am born Saturday's child . 
I'll always ask you on Friday at what hour to come , and hereafter Saturday is ours . 
Ours it is , said Linda . 
Then she put the Bear Cat through the creek and on the road and , driving swiftly as she dared , ran to Lilac Valley and up to Peter Morrison's location . 
She was amazed at the amount of work that had been accomplished . 
Peter's temporary work desk and his cot were in it . 
A number of his personal belongings were there . 
The site for his house had been selected and the cellar was being excavated . 
Linda descended from the Bear Cat and led Donald before Peter . 
Since you're both my friends , she said , I want you to know each other . 
This is Donald Whiting , the Senior I told you about , Mr. Morrison . 
You know you said you would help him if you could . 
I am very glad to know any friend of yours , Miss Linda . 
Come over to my workroom and let's hear about this . 
Oh , go and talk it over between yourselves , said Linda . 
I am going up here to have a private conversation with the spring . 
It would be a downright sin not to have that water in a convenient place for your children to play in , Peter , said Linda . 
Then that's all settled , said Peter . 
Now , Whiting , come this way and we'll see whether I can suggest anything that will help you with your problem . 
Whistle when you are ready , Donald , called Linda as she turned away . 
When finally he let him go , his mental comment was He's a mighty fine kid . 
Linda is perfectly safe with him . 
Linda's Hearthstone Early the following week Linda came from school one evening to find a load of sand and a heap of curiously marked stones beside the back door . 
I had no idea they would be ready to begin work until after I had my settlement with Eileen or was paid for the books . 
Don't ye be worried , said Katy . 
There's more in me stocking than me leg , and you're as welcome to it as the desert is welcome to rain , an' nadin' it 'most as bad . 
Anyway , said Linda , it will surely take them long enough so that I can pay by the time they finish . 
But Linda was not figuring that back of the projected improvements stood two men , each of whom had an extremely personal reason for greatly desiring to please her . 
Peter Morrison had secured a slab of sandstone . 
They were two men striving for the favor of the same girl . 
How Linda would have been amused had she understood the situation , or how Eileen would have been provoked , neither of the men knew nor did they care . 
The workmen came after Linda left and went before her return . 
The firebox was not very large but ample . 
The hearthstone was a big sheet of smooth gray sandstone . 
The sides and top were Henry's collection of brilliant boulders , carefully and artistically laid in blue mortar , and over the firebox was set Peter's slab of gray sandstone . 
On it were four deeply carved lines . 
The quaint Old English lettering was filled even to the surface with a red mortar , while the capitals were done in dull blue . 
The girl slowly read Voiceless stones , with Flame tongues Preach Sermons struck from Nature's Lyre Notes of Love and Trust and Hope Hourly sing in Linda's Fire . 
In the firebox stood a squat pair of black andirons , showing age and usage . 
A rough eucalyptus log waited across them while the shavings from the placing of the mantel and the cutting of the windows were tucked beneath it . 
Linda stood absorbed a minute . 
She looked at the skylight , flooding the room with the light she so needed coming from the right angle . 
She went over to the new window that gave her a view of the length of the valley she loved and a most essential draft . 
When she turned back to the fireplace her hands were trembling . 
Now isn't that too lovely of them ? she said softly . 
Isn't that altogether wonderful ? How I wish Daddy were here to sit beside my fire and share with me the work I hope to do here . 
In order to come as close to him as possible she did the next best thing . 
She sat down at her table and wrote a long letter to Marian , telling her everything she could think of that would interest her . 
Then she re read with extreme care the letter she had found at the Post Office that day in reply to the one she had written Marian purporting to come from an admirer . 
Writing slowly and thinking deeply , she answered it . 
When she finished , she read it over carefully , and then copied it with equal care on the typewriter , which she had removed to her workroom . 
When she heard Katy's footstep outside her door , she opened it and drew her in , slipping the bolt behind her . 
She led her to the fireplace and recited the lines . 
Now ain't they jist the finest gentlemen ? said Katy . 
Cut right off of a piece of the same cloth as your father . 
Ain't it about time the third was comin' in ? Any day now , said Linda in a whisper . 
And , Katy , you'll be careful ? That editor must think that 'Jane Meredith' is full of years and ripe experience . 
I probably wouldn't get ten cents , no not even a for nothing chance , if he knew those articles were written by a Junior . 
Junior nothing ! scoffed Katy . 
There was not a day of his life that your pa did not spend hours drillin' ye in things the rest of the girls in your school never heard of . 
'Tain't no high school girl that's written them articles . 
It's Alexander Strong speakin' through the medium of his own flesh and blood . 
Why , so it is , Katy ! cried Linda delightedly . 
You know , I never thought of that . 
I have been so egoistical I thought I was doing them myself . 
Paid ye anything yet ? queried Katy . 
No , said Linda , they haven't . 
Peter says even an effort to write a poem is a beautiful thing . 
Katy , said Linda , we are dreadful back numbers . 
We are letting this world progress and roll right on past us without a struggle . 
We haven't either one been to a psychoanalyst to find out the color of our auras . 
Now God forbid , said Katy . 
I ain't going to have one of them things around me . 
The colors I'm wearin' satisfy me entoirely . 
And mine are going to satisfy me very shortly , now , laughed Linda , because tomorrow is my big day with Eileen . 
Next time we have a minute together , old dear , I'll have started my bank account . 
Right ye are , said Katy , jist exactly right . 
You're getting such a great girl it's the proper thing ye should be suitably dressed , and don't ye be too modest . 
Now ain't that jist like ye ? said Katy . 
I might have known ye would be doing that very thing . 
After I have gone over the accounts , said Linda , I'll know better what to demand . 
Isn't that red and blue lettering the prettiest thing , Katy , and do you notice that tiny 'P . 
The next Post he has an article in I'll buy for you . 
It never does , said Katy , to be makin' up your mind in this world so hard and fast that ye can't change it . 
Same holds good for me , said Linda . 
I've studied this Peter , continued Katy , like your pa used to study things under his microscope . 
He's the most come at able man . 
He said the quarest thing to me the other day when he was here fiddlin' over the makin' of this fireplace . 
Ain't it the brightest , prettiest place ? I says to him . 
And he stood there lookin' , and he says to me 'No , Katy , that is a graveyard . 
Now what in the name of raison was the man meanin' by that ? Linda stared at the hearth motto reflectively . 
A graveyard ! she repeated . 
Well , if anything could come farther from a graveyard than that spot , I don't know how it would do it . 
I haven't the remotest notion what he meant . 
Why didn't you ask him ? Well , the truth is , said Katy , that I proide myself on being able to kape me mouth shut when I should . 
I'll leave to think over it , said Linda . 
At present I have no more idea than you in what respect my desert garden could resemble a graveyard . 
Oh ! yes , there's one thing I wanted to ask you , Katy . 
Has Eileen been around while this room was being altered ? She came in yesterday , answered Katy , when the hammerin' and sawin' was goin' full blast . 
After I get things going here and these walls are covered with drying sketches this room is going to be strictly private . 
You see that you keep your key where nobody gets hold of it . 
It's on a string round me neck this blessed minute , said Katy . 
I didn't see her come up here , but ye could be safe in bettin' anything ye've got that she came . 
Yes , I imagine she did , said Linda . 
She would be sufficiently curious that she would come to learn how much I have spent if she had no other interest in me . 
She looked at the fireplace reflectively . 
I wonder , she said , what Eileen thought of that and I wonder if she noticed that little 'P . 
M. tucked away down there in the corner . 
Sure she did , said Katy . 
She has got eyes like a cat . 
She can see more things in a shorter time than anybody I ever knew . 
I can't imagine what you want to stick yourself off up there alone for , said Eileen . 
I don't believe I am sufficiently interested in garret skylights and windows to climb up to look at them . 
What everybody in the neighborhood can see is that you have absolutely ruined the looks of the back part of the house . 
Good gracious ! said Linda . 
Have I ? You know I never thought of that . 
Undoubtedly you've cut the selling price of the house one thousand , at least . 
But it's exactly like you not to have thought of what chopping up the roof and the end of the house as you have done , would make it look like . 
Very likely there's a large amount of truth in that , said Linda soberly . 
Perhaps I do get an idea and pursue it to the exclusion of everything else . 
It's an inheritance from Daddy , this concentrating with all my might on one thing at a time . 
But I am very sorry if I have disfigured the house . 
I can talk more understandingly about that , said Linda quietly , day after tomorrow . 
I'll get home from school tomorrow as early as I can , and then we'll figure out our financial situation exactly . 
Producing the Evidence When Linda hurried home the next evening , her first word to Katy was to ask if Eileen were there . 
No , she isn't here , said Katy , and she's not going to be . 
Not going to be ! cried Linda , her face paling perceptibly . 
I don't like it , said Linda . 
I don't like it at all . 
I don't understand this , said Linda , white lipped and tense . 
She does not want to see me . 
She does not intend to talk business with me if she can possibly help it . 
She is treating me as if I were a four year old instead of a woman with as much brain as she has . 
So Linda sat down and wrote DEAR EILEEN It won't be necessary to remind you of our agreement night before last to settle on an allowance from Father's estate for me . 
If you don't want something done that you will dislike , even more than you dislike seeing me , you had better heed this warning . 
She read it over slowly My , that sounds melodramatic ! she commented . 
It's even got a threat in it , and it's a funny thing to threaten my own sister . 
I don't think that it's a situation that occurs very frequently , but for that matter I sincerely hope that Eileen isn't the kind of sister that occurs frequently . 
Linda went up to her room and tried to settle herself to work , but found that it was impossible to fix her attention on what she was doing . 
Her mind jumped from one thing to another in a way that totally prohibited effective work of any kind . 
A sudden resolve came into her heart . 
She would not wait any longer . 
She would know for herself just how she was situated financially . 
Then she went down to the telephone book and looked up the location of the Consolidated Bank . 
She decided that she would stop there on her way from school the next day and ask to be shown the Strong accounts . 
While she was meditating these heroic measures the bell rang and Katy admitted John Gilman . 
Strangely enough , he was asking for Linda , not for Eileen . 
She has 'phoned me two or three times , but I haven't seen her for three days . 
Do you know where she is or exactly why she is keeping away from home as she is ? Yes , said Linda , I do . 
I told you the other day the time had come when I was going to demand a settlement of Father's estate and a fixed income . 
That time came three days ago and I have not seen Eileen since . 
They entered the living room . 
As Linda passed the table , propped against a candlestick on it , she noticed a note addressed to herself . 
Oh , here will be an explanation , she said . 
Here is a note for me . 
Sit down a minute till I read it . 
She seated herself on the arm of a chair , tore open the note , and instantly began reading aloud . 
Dear little sister Pathetic , interpolated Linda , in consideration of the fact that I am about twice as big as she is . 
However , we'll let that go , and focus on the enclosure . 
She waved a slender slip of paper at Gilman . 
But I took time to run into the bank and go over things carefully . 
I am not taking the bill from The Mode into consideration . 
I paid that with last month's expenses . 
Linda held the letter in one hand , the cheque in the other , and stared questioningly at John Gilman . 
What do you think of that ? she inquired tersely . 
It seems to me , said Gilman , that a more pertinent question would be , what do you think of it ? Rot ! said Linda tersely . 
Right here and now I am going to show you something ! Linda started upstairs , so John Gilman followed her . 
She went to the door of Eileen's suite and opened it . 
Now then , she said , take a look at what Eileen feels she can afford for herself . 
You will observe she has complete and exquisite furnishings and all sorts of feminine accessories on her dressing table . 
You will observe that she has fine rugs in her dressing room and bathroom . 
Let me call your attention to the fact that all these drawers are filled with expensive comforts and conveniences . 
Here the drawers revealed heaps of embroidered underclothing and silken garments . 
Then she walked to the closet and threw the door wide . 
Linda took this down and held it in front of John Gilman . 
I see things marked in store windows , she said . 
Eileen paid not a penny less than three hundred for this one coat . 
Look at the rows of shoes , and pumps , and slippers , and what that box is or I don't know . 
Linda dropped the lid and shoved the box back . 
She stood silent a second , then she looked at John Gilman . 
That is the way things go in this world , she said quietly . 
Whenever you lose your temper , you always do something you didn't intend to do when you started . 
I didn't know that , and I wouldn't have shown it to you purposely if I had known it but it doesn't alter the fact that you should know it . 
I am sorry for that , but since I have started this I am going through with it . 
Now give me just one minute more . 
Then she went down the hall , threw open the door to her room , and walking in said You have seen Eileen's surroundings now take a look at mine . 
There's my bed there's my dresser and toilet articles and this is my wardrobe . 
She opened the closet door and exhibited a pair of overalls in which she watered her desert garden . 
Next ranged her khaki breeches and felt hat . 
Then hung the old serge school dress , beside it the extra skirt and orange blouse . 
The stack of underclothing on the shelves was pitifully small , visibly dilapidated . 
Two or three outgrown gingham dresses hung forlornly on the opposite wall . 
Linda stood tall and straight before John Gilman . 
What I have on and one other waist constitute my wardrobe , she said , and I told Eileen where to get this dress and suggested it before I got it . 
Gilman looked at her in a dazed fashion . 
I don't understand , he said slowly . 
If that isn't the dress I saw Eileen send up for herself , I'm badly mistaken . 
It was the Saturday we went to Riverside . 
It surely is the very dress . 
That may be , she said . 
The one time she ever has any respect for me is in a question of taste . 
She will agree that I know when colors are right and a thing is artistic . 
Now then , John , you are the administrator of my father's estate you have seen what you have seen . 
I am going to do exactly what you tell me to . 
What you have shown me , and what I'd have realized , if I had stopped to think , is neither right nor just . 
Then Linda took her tun at deep thought . 
John , she said at last , I am feeling depressed over what I have just done . 
I am not sure that in losing my temper and bringing you up here I have played the game fairly . 
You don't need to do anything . 
I'll manage my affairs with Eileen myself . 
But I'll tell you before you go , that you needn't practice any subterfuges . 
When she reaches the point where she is ready to come home , I'll tell her that you were here , and what you have seen . 
That is the best I can do toward squaring myself with my own conscience . 
Slowly they walked down the ha l together . 
At the head of the stairs Linda took the cheque that she carried and tore it into bits . 
Stepping across the hall , she let the little heap slowly flutter to the rug in front of Eileen's door . 
Then she went back to her room and left John Gilman to his own reflections . 
I wish I could bring myself to the place where I would think half a dozen times before I do a thing once . 
But since I am the daughter of the finest gentleman I ever knew , I should not do hasty , regrettable things . 
But before that , Katy , I led my guardian into the room , and showed him everything . 
So I told him to leave it to me that I would tell Eileen myself what I had done , and so I will . 
But I am sorry I did it , Katy I am awfully sorry . 
You always told me to keep my temper and I lost it completely . 
From now on I certainly will try to behave myself more like a woman than a spoiled child . 
Now give me a dust cloth and brushes . 
Linda went to the library and began work , efficiently , carefully , yet with a precise rapidity habitual to her . 
Down the long line of heavy technical books , she came to the end of the shelf . 
Three books from the end she noticed a difference in the wall behind the shelf . 
The key to it is in my safety deposit vault at the Consolidated Bank . 
The Bank will open the door and attend to the contents of the box at the proper time . 
Linda fixed the paper back exactly as she had found it . 
She stood looking at the door a long time , then she carefully wiped it , the wall around it , and the shelf . 
She carried the dusters back to Katy , and going to her room , concentrated resolutely upon her work but she Was unable to do anything constructive . 
Her routine lessons she could prepare , but she could not even sketch a wild rose accurately . 
Finally she laid down her pencil , washed her brushes , put away her material , and locking her door , slipped the key into her pocket . 
Going down to the garage she climbed into the Bear Cat and headed straight for Peter Morrison . 
She drove into his location and blew the horn . 
Peter stepped from the garage , and seeing her , started in her direction . 
Linda sprang down and hurried toward him . 
He looked at her intently as she approached and formed his own conclusions . 
Sort of restless , said Linda . 
Couldn't evolve a single new idea with which to enliven the gay annals of English literature and Greek history . 
A personal history seems infinitely more insistent and unusual . 
Peter smiled a slow curious smile . 
I like your line of thought , Linda , he said quietly . 
It greatly appeals to me . 
Any time an ancient and patriarchal literary man named Peter Morrison can serve as a rock upon which a young thing can rest , why he'll be glad to be that rock . 
What were you doing ? asked Linda abruptly . 
Come and see , said Peter . 
He led the way to the garage . 
His worktable and the cement floor around it were littered with sheets of closely typed paper . 
I'll have to assemble them first , said Peter , getting down on his knees and beginning to pick them up . 
Linda sat on a packing case and watched him . 
Of course Peter was a rock , of course anyone could trust him , and of course if the tempest of life beat upon her too strongly she could always fly to Peter . 
May I ? she inquired , stretching her hand in the direction of a sheet . 
What is it ? inquired Linda lightly . 
The bridge or the road or the playroom ? Gad ! he said slowly . 
Don't talk about me being a rock ! Rocks are stolid , stodgy unresponsive things . 
I thought I was struggling with one of the biggest political problems of the day from an economic and psychological standpoint . 
If I'd had sense enough to realize that it was a bridge I was building , I might have done the thing with some imagination and subtlety . 
If you want a rock and you say I am a rock , a rock I'll be , Linda . 
But I know what you are , and what you will be to me when we really become the kind of friends we are destined to be . 
I wonder now , said Linda , if you are going to say that I could be any such lovely thing on the landscape as a bridge . 
No , said Peter slowly , nothing so prosaic . 
Bridges are common in this world . 
You are going to be something uncommon . 
History records the experiences of but one man who has seen a flame in the open . 
I am a second Moses and you are going to be my burning bush . 
I intended to read this article to you . 
Peter massed the sheets , straightened them on the desk , and deliberately ripped them across several times . 
Linda sprang to her feet and stretched out her hands . 
Why , Peter ! she cried in a shocked voice . 
There are hours and hours of work on that , and I have not a doubt but that it was good work . 
Simple case of mechanism , said Peter , reducing the bits to smaller size and dropping them into the empty nail keg that served as his wastebasket . 
A lifeless thing without a soul , mere clockwork . 
I have got the idea now . 
I am to build a bridge and make a road . 
Every way I look I can see a golden flame tongue of inspiration burning . 
I'll rewrite that thing and animate it . 
Take me for a ride , Linda . 
Linda rose and walked to the Bear Cat . 
Peter climbed in and sat beside her . 
Linda laid her hands on the steering wheel and started the car . 
She ran it down to the highway and chose a level road leading straight down the valley through cultivated country . 
In all the world there was nothing to equal the panorama that she spread before Peter that evening . 
She drove the Bear Cat past orchards , hundreds of acres of orchards of waxen green leaves and waxen white bloom of orange , grapefruit , and lemon . 
She took him where seas of pink outlined peach orchards , and other seas the more delicate tint of the apricots . 
Nowhere in all the world are there to be found so many acres of orchard bloom and so many miles of tree lined , rose decorated roadway as in southern California . 
As he stepped from the car she leaned toward him and reached out her hand . 
Thank you for the fireplace , Peter , she said . 
Peter took the hand she extended and held it one minute in both his own . 
Then very gently he straightened it out in the palm of one of his hands and with the other hand turned back the fingers and laid his lips to the heart of it . 
Thank you , Linda , for the flame , he said , and turning abruptly , he went toward his workroom . 
Stopping for a bite to eat in the kitchen , Linda went back to her room . 
She sat down at the table and picking up her pencil , began to work , and found that she could work . 
Every stroke came true and strong . 
Every idea seemed original and unusual . 
She thought it certainly would comfort Marian and surely would make her feel that someone worth while was interested in her and in her work . 
She knew that she had no right to do that and had no such intention . 
She merely wanted a model to copy from and Peter seemed the most appealing model at hand . 
After school the next day Linda reported that she had finished going through the books and was ready to have them taken . 
Then , after a few minutes of deep thought , she made her way to the Consolidated Bank . 
The teller recognized the name . 
I'll take you to the office of the president , he said . 
He and Doctor Strong were very warm friends . 
You can explain to him what it is you want to know . 
Before she realized what was happening , Linda found herself in an office that was all mahogany and marble . 
At a huge desk stacked with papers sat a man , considerably older than her father . 
Of course you have forgotten me , Mr. Worthington , she said as she approached his desk . 
I have grown such a tall person during the past four years . 
The white haired financier rose and stretched out his hand . 
You exact replica of Alexander Strong , he said laughingly , I couldn't forget you any more than I could forget your father . 
That fine fishing trip where you proved such a grand little scout is bright in my memory as one of my happiest vacations . 
Sit down and tell me what I can do for you . 
Linda sat down and told him that she was dissatisfied with the manner in which her father's estate was being administered . 
He listened very carefully to all she had to say , then he pressed a button and gave a few words of instruction to the clerk who answered it . 
When several ledgers and account books were laid before him , with practiced hand he turned to what he wanted . 
The records were not complicated . 
They covered a period of four years . 
They showed exactly what monies had been paid into the bank for the estate . 
They showed what royalties had been paid on the books . 
Linda sat beside him and watched his pencil running up and down columns , setting down a list of items , and making everything plain . 
Paid cheques for household expenses I and drygoods bills were all recorded and deducted . 
With narrow , alert eyes , Linda was watching , and her brain was keenly alive . 
As she realized the discrepancy between the annual revenue from the estate and the totaling of the expenses , she had an inspiration . 
Something she never before had thought of occurred to her . 
That would not be customary , he said slowly . 
At least none that I know of . 
Mother had I some relatives in San Francisco who were very wealthy people , but they never came to see us and we never went there . 
I know nothing about them . 
I never had any money from them and I am quite sure Eileen never had . 
Linda sat very quietly a minute and then she looked at the banker . 
Mr. Worthington , she said , the situation is slightly peculiar . 
My guardian , John Gilman , is engaged to marry my sister Eileen . 
She is a beautiful girl , as you no doubt recall , and he is very much in love with her . 
Undoubtedly she has been able , at least recently , to manage affairs very much in her own way . 
She is more than four years my senior , and has always had charge of the household accounts and the handling of the bank accounts . 
Since there is such a wide discrepancy between the returns from the property and the expenses that these books show , I am forced . 
That I can very easily ascertain , said Mr. Worthington , reaching again toward the button on his desk . 
A few minutes later the report came that there was a private account in the name of Miss Eileen Strong . 
Again Linda was deeply thoughtful . 
Is there anything I can do , she inquired , to prevent that account from being changed or drawn out previous to my coming of age ? Then Mr. Worthington grew thoughtful . 
Yes , he said at last . 
But because he is engaged to Eileen , I told him I would not bring him into this matter , said Linda . 
I told him that I would do what I wanted done , myself . 
Well , how long is it until this coming birthday of yours ? inquired Mr. Worthington . 
Less than two weeks , answered Linda . 
For a time the financier sat in deep thought , then he looked at Linda . 
It was a keen , searching look . 
I see the circumstances very clearly , he said . 
I sympathize with your position . 
Thank you very much , said Linda . 
That will fix everything finely . 
On her way to the street car , Linda's brain whirled . 
It's not conceivable , she said , that Eileen should be enriching herself at my expense . 
Anyway , matters are safe now . 
The next day the books were taken and a cheque for their value was waiting for Linda when she reached home . 
She cashed this cheque and went straight to Peter Morrison for his estimate of the expenses for the skylight and fireplace . 
When she asked for the bill Peter hesitated . 
You wouldn't accept this little addition to your study as a gift from Henry and me ? he asked lightly . 
It would be a great pleasure to us if you would . 
Peter did not have the bill , but he had memoranda , and when Linda paid him she reflected that the current talk concerning the inflated price of labor was greatly exaggerated . 
For two evenings as Linda returned from school and went to her room she glanced down the hall and smiled at the decoration remaining on Eileen's rug . 
The third evening it was gone , so that she knew Eileen was either in her room or had been there . 
She did not meet her sister until dinnertime . 
She was prepared to watch Eileen , to study her closely . 
She was not prepared to admire her , but in her heart she almost did that very thing . 
Eileen had practiced subterfuges so long , she was so accomplished , that it would have taken an expert to distinguish reality from subterfuge . 
She entered the dining room humming a gay tune . 
She was carefully dressed and appealingly beautiful . 
She blew a kiss to Linda and waved gaily to Katy . 
I was rather afraid , she said lightly , that I might find you two in mourning when I got back . 
I never stayed so long before , did I ? Seemed as if every friend I had made special demand on my time all at once . 
Hope you haven't been dull without me . 
Oh , no , said Linda quietly . 
In other words , said Eileen , it doesn't make any difference to you where I am . 
Not so far as enjoying your company is concerned , said Linda . 
Otherwise , of course it makes a difference . 
I hope you had a happy time . 
Oh , I always have a happy time , answered Eileen lightly . 
I certainly have the best friends . 
That's your good fortune , answered Linda . 
At the close of the meal Linda sat waiting . 
Eileen gave Katy instructions to have things ready for a midnight lunch for her and John Gilman and then , humming her tune again , she left the dining room and went upstairs . 
Linda stood looking after her . 
Now or never , she said at last . 
I have no business to let her meet John until I have recovered my self respect . 
But the Lord help me to do the thing decently ! So she followed Eileen up the stairway . 
She tapped at the door , and without waiting to hear whether she was invited or not , opened it and stepped inside . 
Eileen was sitting before the window , a big box of candy beside her , a magazine in her fingers . 
Evidently she intended to keep her temper in case the coming interview threatened to become painful . 
I was half expecting you , she said , you silly hothead . 
I found the cheque I wrote you when I got home this afternoon . 
That was a foolish thing to do . 
Then Linda did the most disconcerting thing possible . 
In her effort at self control she went too far . 
She merely folded her hands in her lap and sat looking straight at Eileen without saying one word . 
She flushed and fidgeted , and at last she broke out impatiently Oh , for goodness' sake , Linda , don't play 'Patience on a monument . 
Speak up and say what it is that you want . 
You needn't bother any more about a cheque . 
Eileen was surprised and her face showed it and she was also relieved . 
That too her face showed . 
I always knew , she said lightly , that I had a little sister with a remarkably level head and good common sense . 
All Linda's good resolutions vanished . 
She was under strong nervous tension . 
Oh , good Lord ! she said shortly . 
Bluff the rest of the world like a professional , Eileen , but why try it with me ? You're right about my having common sense . 
I'll admit that I am using it now . 
The receding color in her cheeks left the rouge on them a ghastly , garish thing . 
Well , I won't do anything of the sort , she said hotly , and neither will John Gilman . 
Unfortunately for you , answered Linda , John Gilman is my guardian , not yours . 
He came here ! cried Eileen . 
Why , yes , said Linda . 
Was it anything unusual ? Hasn't he been coming here ever since I can remember ? Evidently you didn't keep him as well posted this time as you usually do . 
He came here and asked for me . 
And I suppose , said Eileen , an ugly red beginning to rush into her white cheeks , that you took pains to make things uncomfortable for me . 
I am very much afraid , said Linda , that you are right . 
Oh , well , there was nothing in that , said Eileen in a relieved tone . 
Nothing in the wording of it , no , said Linda , but there was everything in the intention back of it . 
Because you did not live up to your tacit agreement , and because I had been on high tension for two or three days , I lost my temper completely . 
I brought John Gilman up here and showed him the suite of rooms in which you have done for yourself , for four years . 
I wouldn't have done that if I had known what I was doing . 
Is that all ? inquired Eileen , making a desperate effort at self control . 
Not quite , said Linda . 
When I finished with your room , I took him back and showed him mine in even greater detail than I showed him yours . 
I thought the contrast would be more enlightening than anything either one of us could say . 
And I suppose you realize , said Eileen bitterly , that you lost me John Gilman when you did it . 
I lost you John Gilman when I did it ? But I didn't do it . 
You have been busy for four years doing it . 
If you hadn't done it , it wouldn't have been there for me to show him . 
I can't see that this is profitable . 
Certainly it's the most distressing thing that ever has occurred for me . 
But I didn't feel that I could let you meet John Gilman tonight without telling you what he knows . 
She saw the gallant effort she was making to keep her self possession , to think with her accustomed rapidity , to strike upon some scheme whereby she could square herself . 
She rose and started toward the door . 
What you'll say to John I haven't the faintest notion , she said . 
I told him very little . 
Then she went out and closed the door after her . 
At the foot of the stairs she met Katy admitting Gilman . 
Without any preliminaries she said I repeat , John , that I'm sorry for what happened the other day . 
I have just come from Eileen . 
She will be down as soon as Katy tells her you're here , no doubt . 
I have done what I told you I would . 
She knows what I showed you so you needn't employ any subterfuges . 
You can be frank and honest with each other . 
I wish to God we could , said John Gilman . 
Linda went to her work . 
She decided that she would gauge what happened by the length of time John stayed . 
If he remained only a few minutes it would indicate that there had been a rupture . 
If he stayed as long as he usually did , the chances were that Eileen's wit had triumphed as usual . 
At twelve o'clock Linda laid her pencils in the box , washed the brushes , and went down the back stairs to the ice chest for a glass of milk . 
The living room was still lighted and Linda thought Eileen's laugh quite as gay as she ever had heard it . 
Linda closed her lips very tight and slowly climbed the stairs . 
But I want you to have the consolation and the comfort of knowing that I have found at least two friends that I hope will endure . 
One is a woman who has a room across the hall from mine in my apartment house . 
This woman her name is Dana Meade enlivens every hour of her working day with something concerning the welfare of humanity . 
The only thing I am absolutely sure about is the inner light that shines to an unbelievable degree . 
I wish she had more time and I wish I had more time and that she and I might become such friends as you and I are . 
I can't tell you , dear , how much I think of you . 
It seems to me that you're running a sort of undercurrent in my thoughts all day long . 
You will hardly credit it , Linda , but a few days ago I drove a car through the thickest traffic , up a steep hill , and round a curve . 
I did it , but practically collapsed when it was over . 
The why of it was this I think I told you before that in the offices of Nicholson and Snow there is a man who is an understanding person . 
He is the junior partner and his name is Eugene Snow . 
I happened to arrive at his desk the day I came for my instructions and to make my plans for entering their contest . 
He was very kind to me and went out of his way to smooth out the rough places . 
The day I mention I had worked late and hard the night before . 
I had done the last possible thing to the plans for my dream house . 
Anyway , he said to me that his car was below . 
He asked me if I would go with him for a drive and I told him that I would . 
I am rather stunned yet over what happened . 
For one minute I truly experienced a thrill . 
I thought he was going to give that mass of flowers to me , but he did not . 
He merely laid it across my lap and said Edith adored the flowers from bulbs . 
We'll take her these as I would take them to her were she living . 
I even lifted my turban and bowed my white head before him . 
This hurt it was one of the inexorable things that come to people in this world I could talk about . 
That deeper hurt , which has put a scar that never will be effaced on my soul , of course I could not tell him about . 
But when we went back to the car he said to me that he would help me to get back into the sunlight . 
He said the first thing I must do to regain self confidence was to begin driving again . 
In a week or ten days I shall know about the contest . 
I could use the material value that prize represents . 
I could start my life work which I hope to do in Lilac Valley on the prestige and the background that it would give me . 
Since I have been in San Francisco some man , who for a reason of his own does not tell me his name , has been writing me extremely attractive letters . 
I have had several of them and I can't tell you , Linda , what they mean to me or how they help me . 
There is a touch of whimsy about them . 
I can't as yet connect them with anybody I ever met , but to me they are taking the place of a little lunch on the bread of life . 
I dare you to take HIM . 
And my confidence , Linda , is positively supreme that she could not do it . 
On the streets , in the stores , everywhere I go , sometimes half a dozen times in a day I say to myself There goes Eileen . 
With dearest love , be sure to remember me to Katherine O'Donovan . 
Hug her tight and give her my unqualified love . 
Don't let her forget me . 
The part of the letter concerning the unknown man who was writing Marian , Linda pondered over deeply . 
That is the best thing I ever did in my life , she said in self commendation . 
It's doing more than I hoped it would . 
It's giving Marian something to think about . 
It's giving her an interest in life . 
For once in your life , Linda , you have done something strictly worth while . 
Before I write another single one I'll go see Peter . 
Maybe he will have that article written . 
He was not in the garage when she stopped her car before it , but the workmen told her that he had strolled up the mountain and that probably he would return soon . 
Learning that he had been gone but a short time Linda set the Bear Cat squalling at the top of its voice . 
Then she took possession of the garage , and clearing Peter's worktable spread upon it the food she had brought , and then started out to find some flowers for decorations . 
you can't guess what I have been doing ! Peter glanced at the flowers . 
Isn't it obvious ? he inquired . 
No , it isn't , said Linda , because I am capable of two processes at once . 
The work of my hands is visible with it I am going to decorate your table . 
I am going to decorate it and we are going to make a hit with it that will be at least a start on the road to greater fame . 
What you see is material . 
You can pick it up , smell it , admire it and eat it . 
But what I have truly been doing is setting Spanish iris for yards down one side of the bed of your stream . 
Oh , Peter , there is enchantment in the way I set it . 
I wish you could see it ! Peter looked at Linda reflectively and then he told her that he could see it . 
What he was seeing was a soul , a young thing , a thing he coveted with every nerve and fiber of his being . 
There is no reason in your life . 
There is nothing ugly that could offend her or hurt her . 
It is very likely that she regards me in the light of a grandfatherly person to whom she can come with her joys or her problems , as frankly as she has now . 
So Peter asked if the irises crossed the brook and ran down both sides . 
Linda sat on a packing case and concentrated on the iris , and finally she announced that they did . 
She informed him that his place was going to bc natural , that Nature evolved things in her own way . 
She did not grow irises down one side of a brook and arrowheads down the other . 
They waded across and flew across and visited back and forth , riding the water or the wind or the down of a bee or the tail of a cow . 
It may not scorch you , Peter , she said gravely , but you must look out for the Missus and the little things . 
I haven't definitely decided on her yet , but she looks a good deal like Mary Louise Whiting to mc . 
I saw her the other day . 
She came to school after Donald . 
I liked her looks so well that I said to myself 'Everybody talks about how fine she is . 
Oh , let's leave it in , said Peter , and dispense with the golden head . 
That is positively sacrilegious , said Linda , lifting her hands to her rough black hair . 
Never in my life saw anything lovelier than the rich gold on Louise Whiting's bare head as she bent to release her brakes and start her car . 
A black head looks like a cinder bed beside it and only think what a sunburst it will be when Mary Louise kneels down beside the iris . 
When they had finished their supper Linda gathered up the remnants and put them in the car , then she laid a notebook and pencil on the table . 
Now I want to hear that article , she said . 
I knew you would do it over the minute I was gone , and I knew you would keep it to read to me before you sent it . 
Is it second sight or psychoanalysis or telepathy , or what ? Mostly 'what' , laughed Linda . 
The workmen are gone and everything is quiet now , Peter . 
I am crazy to get the particular angle from which you 'make the world safe for democracy . 
John used to call our attention to your articles during the war . 
He said we had not sent another man to France who could write as humanely and as interestingly as you did . 
Peter , you will have to watch that mouth of yours . 
It's an awfully betraying feature . 
So long as it's occupied with politics and the fads and the foibles and the sins and the foolishness and the extravagances of humanity , it's all very well . 
You will have hard work to settle it down into hard and fast noncommittal lines . 
Peter looked at the girl steadily . 
Have you specialized on my mouth ? he asked . 
Huh umph ! said Linda , shaking her head vigorously . 
When I specialize I use a pin and a microscope and go right to the root of matters as I was taught . 
Well , if this is extemporizing , said Peter , God help my soul if you ever go at me with a pin and a microscope . 
Oh , but I won't ! cried Linda . 
It wouldn't be kind to pin your friends on a setting board and use a microscope on them . 
You might see things that were strictly private . 
You might see things they wouldn't want you to see . 
They might not be your friends any more if you did that . 
When I make a friend I just take him on trust like I did Donald . 
You're my friend , aren't you , Peter ? Yes , Linda , said Peter soberly . 
Put me to any test you can think of if you want proof . 
But I don't believe in PROVING friends , either , said Linda . 
I believe in nurturing them . 
I would set a friend in my garden and water his feet and turn the sunshine on him and tell him to stay there and grow . 
I might fertilize him , I might prune him , and I might use insecticide on him . 
I might spray him with rather stringent solutions , but I give you my word I would not test him . 
If he flourished under my care I would know it , and if he did not I would know it , and that would be all I would want to know . 
I wish I might have known him , said Peter . 
Don't I wish it ! said Linda . 
Now then , Peter , go ahead . 
Peter opened a packing case , picked out a sheaf of papers , and sitting opposite Linda , began to read . 
At one side , winging in from the glow of morning , she drew in the strong winged flight of a flock of sea swallows , peacefully homing toward the far distant ocean . 
She was utterly unaware when Peter stopped reading . 
Absorbed , she bent over her work . 
When she had finished she looked up . 
Now I'll take this home , she said . 
I can't do well on color with pencils . 
She pushed the sketches toward him . 
You little wonder ! said Peter softly . 
Yes , 'little' is good , scoffed Linda , rising to very nearly his height and reaching for the lunch basket . 
'Little' is good , Peter . 
If I could do what I like to myself I would get in some kind of a press and squash down about seven inches . 
Oh , Lord ! said Peter . 
What's the difference what the inches of your body are so long as your brain has a stature worthy of mention ? Good bye ! said Linda . 
On the strength of that I'll jazz that sketch all up , bluey and red purple and jade green . 
I make it as glorious as a Catalina sunset . 
A second later , when he saw her securely on the road below , he smiled to himself . 
Proves one thing , he said conclusively . 
She is over the horrors . 
Thank God she knew that curve so well she could look the other way and drive it mentally . 
Sorry I can't uncover , fair lady , he said , but you see I am very much otherwise engaged . 
The other was a combination stone made up of matrix thickly imbedded with pebbles of brown , green , pink , and dull blue . 
For pity's sake ! said Linda . 
I heard her say the other day that she saved every peculiarly marked boulder she could find to preserve coolness and moisture in her fern bed . 
Linda leaned over and opened the car door . 
He drew a handkerchief from his pocket and wiped his perspiring face and soiled hands . 
I had two sufficient personal reasons , he said . 
Linda started the car , being liberal with gas so liberal that it was only a few minutes till Henry Anderson protested . 
This isn't the speedway , he said . 
What's your hurry ? Two reasons seem to be all that are allowed for things at the present minute , answered Linda . 
One of mine is that you can't drive this beast slow , and the other is that my workroom is piled high with things I should be doing . 
You said that , retorted Linda . 
Well , she has no advantage over me said Henry instantly , because I have known you quite as long as Peter Morrison has at least , and I'm your official bug catcher . 
I had almost forgotten about the bugs , said Linda . 
Well , don't for a minute think I am going to give you an opportunity to forget , said Henry Anderson . 
He reached across and laid his hand over Linda's on the steering gear . 
Linda said nothing , neither did she move . 
She merely added more gas and put the Bear Cat forward at a dizzy whirl . 
That's all right , my beauty , he said . 
Don't you think for a minute that I can't ride as fast as you can drive . 
A dull red mottled Linda's cheeks . 
As quickly as it could be done she brought the Bear Cat to a full stop . 
Then she turned and looked at Henry Anderson . 
The expression in her eyes was disconcerting even to that cheeky young individual he had not borne her gaze a second until he removed his hand . 
Thanks , said Linda in a dry drawl . 
And you will add to my obligation if in the future you will remember not to deal in assumptions . 
I have a year to finish my course in the high school and when I finish I will only have a good beginning for whatever I decide to study next . 
That's nothing , said the irrepressible Henry . 
You haven't mentioned before , said Linda , that you had submitted plans in that San Francisco contest . 
All done and gone , said Henry Anderson lightly . 
I had an inspiration one day and I saw a way to improve a house with comforts and conveniences I never had thought of before . 
I was enthusiastic over the production when I got it on paper and figured it . 
Look here , said Linda soberly , I'm not accustomed to this sort of talk . 
I don't care for it . 
If you want to preserve even the semblance of friendship with me you must stop it , and get to impersonal matters and stay there . 
All right , he agreed instantly , but if you don't like my line of talk , you're the first girl I ever met that didn't . 
You have my sympathy , said Linda gravely . 
You have been extremely unfortunate . 
Then she started the Bear Cat , and again running at undue speed she reached her wild flower garden . 
Henry Anderson placed the stones as she directed and waited for an invitation to come in , but the invitation was not given . 
Linda thanked him for the stones . 
She told him that in combination with a few remaining from the mantel they would make all she would require , and excusing herself she drove to the garage . 
When she came in she found the irrepressible Henry sitting on the back steps explaining to Katy the strenuous time he had had finding and carrying down the stones they had brought . 
Katy had a plate of refreshments ready to hand him when Linda laughingly passed them and went to her room . 
Both fruits taste more like the best well ripened watermelon than any other I recall . 
Bring down the Tunas with a fishing rod or a long pole with a nail in the end . 
With anything save your fingers roll them in the sand or in tufts of grass to remove the spines . 
With a sharp knife , beginning with a layer of red and ending with one of yellow , slice the fruits thinly , stopping to shake out the seeds as you work . 
If the salad is large more oil and more juice should be used . 
She was putting away her working materials when she heard steps and voices on the stairs , so she knew that Eileen and John Gilman were coming . 
She did not in the least want them , yet she could think of no excuse for refusing them admission that would not seem ungracious . 
She hurried to the wall , snatched down the paintings for Peter Morrison , and looked around to see how she could dispose of them . 
She ended by laying one of them in a large drawer which she pushed shut and locked . 
The other she placed inside a case in the wall which formerly had been used for billiard cues . 
At their second tap she opened the door . 
Eileen was not at her best . 
There was a worried look across her eyes , a restlessness visible in her movements , but Gilman was radiant . 
What do you think , Linda ? he cried . 
Eileen has just named the day ! I did no such thing , broke in Eileen . 
Your pardon , fair lady , you did not , said Gilman . 
That was merely a figure of speech . 
I meant named the month . 
She has definitely promised in October , and I may begin to hunt a location and plan a home for us . 
I want the congratulations of my dear friend and my dearer sister . 
Linda held out her hand and smiled as bravely as she could . 
I am very glad you are so pleased , John , she said quietly , and I hope that you will be as happy as you deserve to be . 
Now exactly what do you mean by that ? he asked . 
Oh , Linda prides herself on being deep and subtle and conveying hidden meanings , said Eileen . 
She means what a thousand people will tell you in the coming months merely that they hope you will be happy . 
Of course , Linda hastened to corroborate , wishing if possible to avoid any unpleasantness . 
You certainly have an attractive workroom here , said John , much as I hate to see it spoiled for billiards . 
It's too bad , said Linda , that I have spoiled it for you for billiards . 
I have also spoiled the outside appearance of the house for Eileen . 
Oh , I don't know , said John . 
I looked at it carefully the other day as I came up , and I thought your changes enhanced the value of the property . 
I am surely glad to hear that , said Linda . 
Take a look through my skylight and my new window . 
Doesn't it add a soul and a heart to my study ? John Gilman walked over and looked at the fireplace critically . 
He read the lines aloud , then he turned to Eileen . 
Why , that is perfectly beautiful , he said . 
Let's duplicate it in our home . 
You bungler ! scoffed Eileen . 
I think you're right , said Gilman reflectively , exactly right . 
Linda seems very busy tonight , said Eileen . 
Perhaps we are bothering her . 
Yes , said John , we'll go at once . 
I had to run up to tell our good news and I wanted to tell you too , Linda dear , that I think both of us misjudged Eileen the other day . 
She had no objection to your having any kind of clothes you chose , if only you had confided in her , and explained to her what you wanted . 
Linda stood beside her table , one lean hand holding down the letter she had been writing . 
She stood very still , but she was powerless to raise her eyes to the face of either John or Eileen . 
Above everything she did not wish to go any further in revealing Eileen to John Gilman . 
She had been ashamed of what she already had done . 
She had felt angry and dissatisfied with herself , so she stood before them downcast and silent . 
And it certainly was a great joke on both of us , said John jovially , what we thought about that box of cigarettes , you know . 
They were a prize given by a bridge club at an 'Ambassador' benefit for the Good Samaritan Hospital . 
Eileen , the little card shark she is , won it , and she was keeping it hidden away there to use as a gift for my birthday . 
Since we disclosed her plans prematurely , she gave it to me at once , and I'm having a great time treating all my friends . 
At that instant Linda experienced a revulsion . 
Previously she had not been able to raise her eyes . 
Now it would have been quite impossible to avoid looking straight into Eileen's face . 
But Eileen had no intention of meeting anyone's gaze at that minute . 
She was fidgeting with a sheet of drawing paper . 
Careful you don't bend that , cautioned Linda . 
Then she looked at John Gilman . 
He BELIEVED what he was saying he was happy again . 
Linda evolved the best smile she could . 
How stupid of us not to have guessed ! she said . 
Closing the door behind them , Linda leaned against it and looked up through the skylight at the creep blue of the night , the low hung stars . 
How long she stood there she did not know . 
Presently she went to her chair , picked up her pencil , and slowly began to draw . 
At first she scarcely realized what she was doing , then she became absorbed in her work . 
Then she reached for her color box and brushes , and shortly afterward tacked against the wall an extremely clever drawing of a greatly enlarged wasp . 
Skillfully she had sketched a face that was recognizable round the big insect eyes . 
She greatly exaggerated the wings into long trails and made them of green gauze with ruffled edges . 
She stood before this sketch , studying it for a few minutes , then she walked over to the table and came back with a big black pencil . 
After that , with careful , interested hands she brought out Peter Morrison's drawings and replaced them on the wall to dry . 
She had decided that they would devote that day to wave beaten Laguna . 
It was a long drive but delightful . 
It ran over the old King's Highway between miles of orange and lemon orchards in full flower , bordered by other miles of roses in their prime . 
Every minute when her mind was not actively occupied with her lessons or her recipes Linda was dreaming of the King's Highway . 
He was talking breathlessly in eager , boyish fashion . 
Linda , I am in a garage halfway downtown , he was saying , and it looks to me as if to save my soul I couldn't reach you before noon . 
I have had the darnedest luck . 
Our Jap got sick last week and he sent a new man to take his place . 
There wasn't a thing the matter with our car when I drove it in Friday night . 
This morning Father wanted to use it on important business , and it wouldn't run . 
He ordered me to tinker it up enough to get it to the shop . 
I went at it and when it would go , I started You can imagine the clip I was going , and the thing went to pieces . 
I don't know yet how it comes that I saved my skin . 
I'm pretty badly knocked out , but I'll get there by noon if it's a possible thing . 
Oh , that's all right , said Linda , fervently hoping that the ache in her throat would not tincture her voice . 
It was half past eleven when Donald came . 
Linda could not bring herself to give up the sea that day . 
She found it impossible to drive the King's Highway . 
When they had spread their blankets on the sand , finished their lunch and were resting , Linda began to question Donald about what had happened . 
Finally Donald looked at her , laughingly quizzical . 
Linda , he said , you're no nerve specialist and no naturalist . 
You're the cross examiner for the plaintiff . 
It has to be all right , but you must admit that it looks peculiar . 
How have you been getting along this week ? Donald waved his hand in the direction of a formation of stone the size of a small house . 
Been rolling that to the top of the mountain , he said lightly . 
Linda's eyes narrowed , her face grew speculative . 
She looked at Donald intently . 
Is it as difficult as that ? she asked in a lowered voice as if the surf and the sea chickens might hear . 
It is just as difficult as that , said Donald . 
While you're talking about peculiar things , I'll tell you one . 
In class I came right up against Oka Sayye on the solution of a theorem in trigonometry . 
We got so in earnest that I am afraid both of us were rather tense . 
I stepped over to his demonstration to point out where I thought his reasoning was wrong . 
There was a look in his eyes that was what I would call deadly . 
If he truly was the average age of the rest of the class there was nothing for him to be angry about . 
Then I did take a deliberate survey . 
Linda was watching a sea swallow now , and slowly her lean fingers were gathering handfuls of sand and sifting them into a little pyramid she was heaping beside her . 
Again almost under her breath she spoke . 
Donald , do you really believe that ? she asked . 
I hadn't thought of it in connection with Oka Sayye , but I do know cases where mature Japs have been in grade schools with children under ten . 
Oh , Donald ! exclaimed Linda . 
If California is permitting that or ever has permitted it , we're too easy . 
We deserve to become their prey if we are so careless . 
Why , I know it's true , said Donald . 
I have been in the same classes with men more than old enough to be my father . 
I never was , said Linda , industriously sifting sand . 
Did my being late spoil any particular plan you had made , Linda ? Yes , said Linda , it did . 
Oh , I am so sorry ! cried Donald . 
I certainly shall try to see that it doesn't occur again . 
Could we do it next Saturday ? I am hoping so , said Linda . 
If he had known I would be detained I don't believe he would have asked it of me . 
He's a grand old peter , Linda . 
Yes , I know , said Linda . 
The one thing that I have had that was the biggest thing in all this world was one of these real fathers . 
Donald watched as she raised the pyramid higher and higher . 
Did you tell your father whom you were to go with ? she asked . 
Sure I did , said Donald . 
Told the whole family at dinner last night . 
Told 'em about all the things I was learning , from where to get soap off the bushes to the best spot for material for wooden legs or instantaneous relief for snake bite . 
What did they say ? Linda inquired laughingly . 
Unanimously in favour of continuing the course , he said . 
I had already told Father about you when I asked him for books and any help that he could give me with Oka Sayye . 
Since I had mentioned you last night he told Mother and Louise about that , and they told me to bring you to the house some time . 
All of them are crazy to know you . 
You would convince her of that without making the slightest effort . 
You're infinitely more feminine than any other girl I have ever known How do you figure that ? asked Linda . 
Well , said Donald , it's a queer thing about you , Linda . 
I take any liberty I pretty nearly please with most of the girls I have been associated with . 
Don't get psychological , Donald , said Linda . 
Go on with the Jap . 
I haven't got an answer yet to what I really want to know . 
Have you made the least progress this week ? Can you beat him ? Donald hesitated , studying over the answer . 
Beat him at that trig proposition the other day , he said . 
Got an open commendation before the class . 
I have only been ahead of him once this week , but I haven't failed in anything that he has accomplished . 
I have been able to put some additional touches to some work that he has done for which he used to be marked A which means your One Hundred . 
Double A which means your plus I made in one instance . 
All I've got will be needed before we finish this term . 
I see , said Linda , slowly nodding her head . 
I wish , said Donald , that we had started this thing two years ago , or better still , four . 
They greatly preferred that I take them motoring or to a dance or a picture show or a beach party . 
You're the only one except Mother and Louise who ever inspired me to get down to business . 
Linda laid her palm on the top of the sand heap and pressed it flat . 
She looked at Donald with laughing eyes . 
That sand was the Jap . 
She stretched her hand toward him . 
Did you see yourself squash him ? Donald's laugh was grim . 
Yes , I saw , he said . 
I wish it were as easy as that . 
Donald was deeply thoughtful , yet a half smile was playing round his lips . 
Of all the queer girls I ever knew , you're the cap sheaf , Linda , he said . 
Linda rose slowly , shook the sand from her breeches and stretched out her hand . 
Let's hotfoot it down to the African village and see what the movies are doing that is interesting today , she proposed . 
It had been a wonderful day after all . 
Linda , isn't our friendship the nicest thing that ever happened to us ? he demanded . 
Yes , answered Linda promptly , quite the nicest . 
Make your plans for all day long next Saturday . 
I'll be here before the birds are awake , promised Donald . 
Positively he's hectically youthful today . 
What do you know about that ? Then he hurried on to overtake the crowd of boys he had left , Linda's heart was racing in her breast . 
With a pencil she wrote a few lines on a bit of scratch paper in one of her books . 
Judge Whiting ? she asked . 
Yes , said the Judge . 
I am Linda Strong , the younger daughter of Alexander Strong . 
I think you knew my father . 
Yes , said the Judge , I knew him very well indeed , and I have some small acquaintance with his daughter through very interesting reports that my son brings home . 
Yes , it is about Donald that I came to see you , said Linda . 
The last part of that glance Linda caught . 
She slightly lifted one of the feet under inspection , thrust it forward and looked at the Judge with a gay challenge in her dark eyes . 
Are you interested in them too ? she asked . 
A flush crept into his cheeks . 
He was supposed to be master of any emergency that might arise , but one had arisen in connection with a slip of a schoolgirl that left him wordless . 
It is very probable , said Linda , that if my shoes had been like most other girls' shoes I wouldn't be here today . 
He said he had a battle to wage with me because I tried to be a law to myself , and he wanted to know why I wasn't like other girls . 
Linda lifted her eyes and Judge Whiting looked into them till he saw the same gold lights in their depths that Peter Morrison had seen . 
He came around the table and placed a big leather chair for Linda . 
Then he went back and resumed his own . 
Of course , said the Judge in his most engaging manner . 
Now tell me why you came . 
I came , said Linda , because I started something and am afraid of the possible result . 
Linda folded her slim hands on the table and leaned forward . 
Judge Whiting , she said earnestly , I know very little about men . 
The most I know was what I learned about my father and the men with whom he occasionally hunted and fished . 
I have almost an unreasoning fear of that Jap , not because he has said anything or done anything . 
I may be wholly wrong in having come to you and in taking up your time , but there are two things I wanted to tell you . 
I see , said Judge Whiting . 
Now tell me , just as explicitly as you have told me this , exactly what it is that you fear . 
In telling me , he said he had the feeling that if the Jap could have done so in that instant , he would have killed him . 
That is not fair , Judge Whiting it is not right . 
There should be an age specified above which people may not be allowed to attend public school . 
I quite agree with you , said the Judge . 
Neither do I , said Linda . 
From the short acquaintance I have with him I should not call him at all imaginative , but he is extremely quick and wonderfully retentive . 
You have to show him but once from which cactus he can get Victrola needles and fishing hooks , or where to find material for wooden legs . 
Doesn't prove much , he said . 
You wouldn't have to show me that more than once either . 
If anyone were giving me an intensive course on such interesting subjects , I would guarantee to remember , even at my age . 
The Judge leaned forward and waited attentively . 
The other matter , said Linda , was relative to Saturday . 
There may not be a thing in it , but sometimes a woman's intuition proves truer than what a man thinks he sees and knows . 
I haven't SEEN a thing , and I don't KNOW a thing , but I don't believe your gardener was sick last week . 
Judge Whiting sat in deep thought , then he looked at Linda . 
I see , he said at last . 
Thank you very much for coming to me . 
All these things and anything that develops from them shall be handled carefully . 
Of course you know that Donald is my only son and you can realize what he is to me and to his mother and sister . 
It is because I do realize that , said Linda , that I am here . 
I appreciate his friendship , but it is not for my own interests that I am asking to have him taken care of while he wages his mental war with this Jap . 
The Judge was studying deeply now . 
Finally he said Young lady , I greatly appreciate your coming to me . 
There may be NOTHING in what you fear . 
It MIGHT be a matter of national importance . 
In any event , it shows that your heart is in the right place . 
May Mrs. Whiting and I pay you a visit some day soon in your home ? Of course , said Linda simply . 
I wonder how many of his other girl friends invited him to bring his mother to see them , said the Judge . 
Oh , he probably grew up with the other girls and was acquainted with them from tiny things , said Linda . 
Very likely , conceded the Judge . 
I think , after all , I would rather have an invitation to make one of those trips with you to the desert or the mountains . 
She had missed the fact that the Judge was jesting . 
She had thought him in sober , scientific earnest . 
If you lose your way or have a long tramp , it's good to know which plants will give you drink and where they are . 
And if you're short of implements , you might at any time need a mescal stick , or an arrow shaft or an arrow , even . 
It's been such fun , Judge Whiting , and he has been so interested . 
Yes , I should think he would be , said the Judge . 
If you would take an old boy like me on a few of those trips , I would be immensely pleased . 
You'd like brigand beefsteak , suggested Linda , and you'd like cress salad , and I am sure you'd like creamed yucca . 
Hm , said the Judge . 
Sounds to me like Jane Meredith . 
A dazed expression crossed her face . 
I wonder , said Linda , if a judge hears so many secrets that he forgets what a secret is and couldn't possibly keep one to save his life . 
One of Linda's special laughs floated out of the windows . 
Her right hand slipped across the table toward the Judge . 
Cross your heart and body ? she challenged . 
The Judge took the hand she offered in both of his own . 
On my soul , he said , I swear it . 
All right , bubbled Linda . 
Judge Whiting , allow me to present to you Jane Meredith , the author and originator of the Aboriginal Cookery articles now running in Everybody's Home . 
, Linda stood up as she made the presentation and the Judge arose with her . 
When she bowed her dark head before him the Judge bowed equally as low , then he took the hand he held and pressed it against his lips . 
I am not surprised , he said . 
I am honored , deeply honored , and I am delighted . 
For a high school girl that is a splendid achievement . 
But you realize , of course , said Linda , that it is vicarious . 
I really haven't done anything . 
I am just passing on to the world what Alexander Strong found it interesting to teach his daughter , because he hadn't a son . 
I certainly am fortunate that my son is getting the benefit of this , said Judge Whiting earnestly . 
There are girls who make my old fashioned soul shudder , but I shall rest in great comfort whenever I know that my boy is with you . 
I don't know the first principles . 
We're not doing a thing worse than sucking 'hunters' rock leek' or roasting Indian potatoes or fishing for trout with cactus spines . 
I have had such a lovely time I don't believe that I'll apologize for coming . 
But you won't waste a minute in making sure about Oka Sayye ? I won't waste a minute , said the Judge . 
The End of Marian's Contest Coming from school a few days later on an evening when she had been detained , Linda found a radiant Katy awaiting her . 
What's up , old dear ? cried Linda . 
So be , said Katy . 
It's a good time I'm havin' . 
In the first place the previous boss of this place ain't nowise so bossy as sue used to be , an' livin' with her is a dale aisier . 
An' then , when Miss Eileen is around these days , she is beginning to see things , and she is just black with jealousy of ye . 
Something funny happened here the afternoon , an' she was home for once an' got the full benefit of it . 
I was swapin' the aist walk , but I know she was inside the window an' I know she heard . 
Oh , Katy ! cried Linda . 
Look , it's Gallito , 'little rooster' ! Now ain't them jist yellow violets ? asked Katy dubiously . 
No , said Linda , they are not . 
They are quite a bit rarer . 
They are really a wild pansy . 
Bring water , Katy , and help me . 
But I've something else for ye , said Katy . 
I don't care what you have , answered Linda . 
I am just compelled to park these little roosters at once . 
What makes ye call them that ungodly name ? asked Katy . 
Nothing ungodly about it , answered Linda . 
Gallito is the Spanish name for these violets , and it means 'little rooster . 
Linda set the violets as carefully as they had been lifted and rinsed her hands at the hydrant . 
Now bring on the remainder of the exhibit , she ordered . 
It's there on the top of the rock pile , which you notice has incrased since ye last saw it . 
So it has ! said Linda . 
So it has ! And beautifully colored specimens those are too . 
My fern bed will lift up its voice and rejoice in them . 
And rocks mean Henry Anderson . 
The box I do not understand . 
Linda picked it up , untied the string , and slipped off the wrapping . 
Katy stared in wide mouthed amazement . 
I was just tickled over that because Miss Eileen saw a good looking and capable young man leave a second package , right on the heels of young Whiting , she said . 
The winged creatures flew , the bettles tumbled , the worms went over the top . 
She set it on the ground and laughed to exhaustion . 
Her eyes were wet as she looked up at Katy . 
Really , it is awfully funny , Katy . 
She showed no appreciation of the fun . 
An' if ever the day comes when ye will be telling me ye want me to serve Pater Morrison , I'll well nigh get on my knees to him . 
I think he'd be the closest we'd ever come to gettin' the master back . 
But I couldn't say I'd ever take to Anderson . 
They's something about him , I can't just say what , but he puts me back up amazin' . 
Don't worry , ancient custodian of the family , said Linda . 
That same something in Henry Anderson that antagonizes you , affects me in even stronger degree . 
You must not get the foolish notion that any man has a speculative eye on me , because it is not true . 
I want to be decent to Henry Anderson , because he is Peter's architect , and I'm deeply interested in Peter's house and the lady who will live in it . 
Sometimes I hope it will be Donald's sister , Mary Louise . 
Anyway , I am going to get acquainted with her and make it my business to see that she and Peter get their chance to know each other well . 
Katy folded her arms , tilted her chin at an unusually aspiring angle , and deliberately sniffed . 
Don't ye be lettin' yourself belave your own foolishness , she said . 
I ain't done with me exhibit yet . 
Linda rushed into the house and carried her belongings to her workroom . 
She dropped them on the table and looked at them . 
I'll get you off my mind first , she said to the Morrison package , which enclosed a new article entitled How to Grow Good Citizens . 
With it was a scrawled line , I'm leaving the head and heels of the future to you . 
How fine ! exulted Linda . 
Gal lum shus ! As she opened the letter from Marian she slowly shook her head . 
Drat the luck , she muttered , no good news here . 
Slowly and absorbedly she read DEAREST LINDA No telegram to send . 
I grazed the first prize and missed the second because Henry Anderson wins with plans so like mine that they are practically duplicates . 
I have not seen the winning plans . 
Mr. Snow told me as gently as he could that the judges had ruled me out entirely . 
Mr. Snow was very kind , and terribly cut up about it . 
I made what I hope was a brave fight , I did so believe in those plans that I am afraid to say just how greatly disappointed I am . 
All I can do is to go to work again and try to find out how to better my best , which I surely put into the plans I submitted . 
I can't see how Henry Anderson came to hit upon some of my personal designs for comforts and conveniences . 
I had hoped that no man would think of my especial kitchen plans . 
I rather fancied myself as a benefactor to my sex , an emancipator from drudgery , as it were . 
If I find later that the winning plans include these things I shall believe that Henry Anderson is a mind reader , or that lost plans naturally gravitate to him . 
But there is no use to grouch further . 
I seem to be born a loser . 
Anyway , I haven't lost you and I still have Dana Meade . 
So far I have not balked at anything but he has had the consideration not to direct me to the mountains . 
But there is something you will be glad to hear . 
That unknown correspondent of mine is still sending letters , and I am crazy about them . 
I don't answer one now until I have mulled over it two or three days and I try to give him as good as he sends . 
I judge from your letters that you are keeping at least even with Eileen , and that life is much happier for you . 
You seem to be broadening . 
I am so glad for the friendship you have formed with Donald Whiting . 
My mother and Mrs. Whiting were friends . 
I hope that you do become acquainted with her . 
She is older than you , but she is the kind of girl I know you would like . 
Don't worry because I have lost again , Linda dear . 
Today is my blue day . 
They cannot go wrong for ever . 
With dearest love , MARIAN . 
Linda looked grim as she finished the letter . 
Confound such luck , she said emphatically . 
I do not understand it . 
That partner of his must be a six cylinder miracle . 
Linda went to the kitchen , because she was in pressing need of someone to whom to tell her troubles , and there was no one except Katy . 
What Katy said was energetic and emphatic , but it comforted Linda , because she agreed with it and what she was seeking at the minute was someone who agreed with her . 
As she went back upstairs , she met Eileen on her way to the front door . 
Eileen paused and deliberately studied Linda's face , and Linda stopped and waited quietly until she chose to speak . 
I don't hear the old laugh or the clatter of gay feet as I did before all this war of dissatisfaction broke out . 
This minute if you haven't either cried , or wanted to , I miss my guess . 
You win , said Linda . 
I have not cried , because I make it a rule never to resort to tears when I can help it so what you see now is unshed tears in my heart . 
They in no way relate to what you so aptly term my 'war of dissatisfaction' they are for Marian . 
She has lost again , this time the Nicholson and Snow prize in architecture . 
Serves her right , said Eileen , laughing contemptuously . 
She should have had the sense to know she couldn't do it . 
But , said Linda quietly , Marian wasn't proposing to be a contractor , she only wants to be an architect . 
Doesn't that strike you as curious ? That is more than curious , said Eileen slowly . 
That is a very strange coincidence . 
They couldn't have had anything from each other , because they only met at dinner , before all of us , and Marian went away the next morning it does seem queer . 
Then she added with a flash of generosity and justice , It looks pretty good for Marian , at that . 
If she came so near winning that she lost second and third because she was too near first to make any practical difference , I must be wrong and she must be right . 
You are wrong , said Linda tersely , if you think Marian cannot make wonderful plans for houses . 
But going back to what my 'war of dissatisfaction' is doing to me , it's a pale affair compared with what it is doing to you , Eileen . 
You look a debilitated silhouette of the near recent past . 
You have come and gone exactly as you pleased . 
All I ever tried to do was to keep up a decent appearance before the neighbors and make financial ends meet . 
That never seemed to wear on you as something seems to do now , said Linda . 
I am thankful that this week ends it . 
I am going to arrange with John to be there and it shouldn't take fifteen minutes to run through matters and divide the income in a fair way between us . 
I am willing for you to go on paying the bills and ordering for the house as you have been . 
Certainly you are , sneered Eileen . 
You are quite willing for all the work and use the greater part of my time to make you comfortable . 
Her body seemed to recoil , but her head thrust forward as if to bring her eyes in better range to read Eileen's face . 
That is utterly unjust , Eileen , she cried . 
Then two at a time she rushed the stairs in a race for her room . 
She had hard work to keep down her color when she recognized the heavy gray envelope used by the editor of Everybody's Home . 
There was a small alcove beside a public desk at one side of the room . 
Linda stepped into this , tore open the envelope and slipped out the sheet it contained . 
Dazedly she stared at the slip that fell from it . 
I think one half their attraction has been the exquisite and appealing pictures you have sent for their illustration . 
At the present minute they are forming what I consider the most unique feature in the magazine . 
I am enclosing you a cheque for five hundred dollars as an initial payment on the series . 
If you feel that you can continue this to the extent of even a small volume , I shall be delighted to send you a book contract . 
I think myself that a wonderfully attractive book could be made from this material , and hope that you will agree with me . 
She shifted the papers to one hand and surreptitiously slipped the other to her pocket . 
She tried to keep the papers before her and looked straight from the window to avoid attracting attention . 
Then she returned the letter and cheque to the envelope , and slipped it inside her blouse , and started on her way to school . 
She might as well have gone to Multiflores Canyon and pitted her strength against climbing its walls for the day , for all the good she did in her school work . 
She heard no word of any recitation by her schoolmates . 
She had no word ready when called on for a recitation herself . 
She heard nothing that was said by any of the professors . 
On winged feet she was flying back and forth from the desert to the mountains , from the canyons to the sea . 
She was raiding beds of amass and devising ways to roast the bulbs and make a new dish . 
She was compounding drinks from mescal and bisnaga . 
She was hunting desert pickles and trying to remember whether Indian rhubarb ever grew so far south . 
She was glad when the dismissal hour came that afternoon . 
With eager feet she went straight to the Consolidated Bank and there she asked again to be admitted to the office of the president . 
Mr. Worthington rose as she came in . 
Am I wrong in my dates ? he inquired . 
I was not expecting you until tomorrow . 
No , you're quite right , said Linda . 
But , Mr. Worthington , I am in trouble again . 
We must get life straightened out as best we can . 
Are bankers like father confessors and doctors and lawyers ? I think they are even more so , laughed Mr. Worthington . 
Perhaps the father confessor takes precedence , otherwise I believe people are quite as much interested in their financial secrets as in anything else in all this world . 
Go ahead , said Mr. Worthington kindly . 
I'll give you my word of honor to keep any secret you confide to me . 
She opened it and without any preliminaries handed it and the cheque to the banker . 
He looked at the cheque speculatively , and then laid it aside and read the letter . 
He gave every evidence of having read parts of it two or three times , then he examined the cheque again , and glanced at Linda . 
And just how did you come into possession of this , young lady ? he inquired . 
And what is it that you want of me ? Why , don't you see ? said Linda . 
It's my letter and my cheque I'm 'Jane Meredith . 
Now how am I going to get my money . 
For one dazed moment Mr. Worthington studied Linda then he threw back his head and laughed unrestrainedly . 
He came around the table and took both Linda's hands . 
Bully for you ! he cried exultantly . 
How I wish your father could see the seed he has sown bearing its fruit . 
Isn't that fine ? And do you want to go on with this anonymously ? I think I must , said Linda . 
You see the dignified way in which he ad dresses me as 'madam' ? I see , said Mr. Worthington reflectively . 
And what about this book proposition ? asked the banker gravely . 
That would be a big thing for a girl of your age . 
My school work is not difficult for me . 
It only requires concentration for about two hours in the preparation that each day brings . 
The remainder of the time I could give to amplifying and producing new recipes . 
I see , said the banker . 
So you have resolved , Linda , that you don't want your editor to know your real name . 
Could scarcely be done , said Linda . 
But have you stopped to think , said the banker , that you will be asked for personal history and about your residence , and no doubt a photograph of yourself . 
If you continue this work anonymously you're going to have trouble with more matters than cashing a cheque . 
But I am not going to have any trouble cashing a cheque , she said , because I have come straight to the man whose business is cheques . 
Have you ever done any business at the bank ? No , said Linda . 
None of the clerks know you ? Not that I remember , said Linda . 
I might possibly be acquainted with some of them . 
I have merely passed through the bank on my way to your room twice . 
Then , said the banker , we'll have to risk it . 
After this estate business is settled you will want to open an account in your name . 
Quite true , said Linda . 
Then I would advise you , said Mr. Worthington , to open this account in your own name . 
Endorse this cheque 'Jane Meredith' and make it payable to me personally . 
Whenever one of these comes , bring it to me and I'll take care of it for you . 
He left Linda sitting quietly reading and rereading her letter , and presently returned and laid a sheaf of paper money before her . 
Take it to the paying teller . 
Tell him that you wish to deposit it , and ask him to give you a bank book and a cheque book , he said . 
Thank you very much for coming to me and for confiding in me . 
Linda gathered up the money , and said good bye to the banker . 
Just as she started forward she recognized Eileen at the window of the paying teller . 
It was an Eileen she never before had seen . 
Her face was strained to a ghastly gray . 
Her hat was not straight and her hands were shaking . 
Without realizing that she was doing it , Linda stepped behind one of the huge marble pillars supporting the ceiling and stood there breathlessly , watching Eileen . 
She could gather that she was discussing the bank ledger which lay before the teller and that he was refusing something that Eileen was imploring him to do . 
Linda thought she understood what it was . 
Then very clearly Eileen's voice , sharp and strained , reached her ears . 
You mean that you are refusing to pay me my deposits on my private account ? she cried and Linda could also hear the response . 
But this is my money , my own private affair , begged Eileen . 
The estate has nothing to do with it . 
I am sorry , repeated the teller . 
If that is the case , you will have no difficulty in establishing the fact in a few minutes' time . 
Eileen turned and left the bank , and it seemed that she was almost swaying . 
Linda stood a second with narrowed eyes , in deep thought . 
I think , she said at last , deep down in her heart , that it looks precious much as if there had been a bit of transgression in this affair . 
It looks , too , as if 'the way of the transgressor' were a darned hard way . 
Straight ahead open and aboveboard for you , my girl ! Then she went quietly to the desk and transacted her own business but her beautiful day was clouded . 
Her heart was no longer leaping exultantly . 
She was sickened and sorrowful over the evident nerve strain and discomfort which Eileen seemed to have brought upon herself . 
She dreaded meeting her at dinner that night , and she wondered all the way home where Eileen had gone from the bank and what she had been doing . 
Her eyes were brilliant , her cheeks by nature redder than the rouge she had used upon them . 
She squared her shoulders , lifted her head , as if she irrevocably had made a decision and would not be thwarted in acting upon it . 
While she waited she straightened her hat , and tucked up her pretty hair , once more evincing concern about her appearance . 
After a nervous wait she secured her party . 
Am I speaking with Mr. James Heitman ? she asked . 
Yes , came the answer . 
Well , Uncle Jim , this is Eileen . 
Why , hello , girlie , was the quick response . 
Delighted that you're calling your ancient uncle . 
Haven't changed the decision in the last letter I had from you , have you ? Yes , said Eileen , I have changed it . 
Do you and Aunt Caroline still want me , Uncle Jim ? YOU BET WE WANT YOU ! roared the voice over the 'phone . 
Here we are , with plenty of money and not a relation on earth but you to leave it to . 
You belong to us by rights . 
We'd be tickled to death to have you , and for you to have what's left of the money when we get through with it . 
May I come after you ? Say the word , and I'll start this minute . 
Oh , Uncle Jim , could you ? Would you ? cried Eileen . 
Well , I'd say I could . 
We'd be tickled to death , I tell you ! How long would it take you to get here ? said Eileen . 
Well , I could reach you by noon tomorrow . 
Eleven something is the shortest time it's been made in that would give me thirteen more than enough . 
Are you in that much of a hurry ? Yes , gasped Eileen , yes , I am in the biggest kind of a hurry there is , Uncle Jim . 
This troublesome little estate has to be settled tomorrow afternoon . 
There's going to be complaint about everything that I have seen fit to do . 
I've been hounded and harassed till I am disgusted with it . 
Then I've promised to marry John Gilman as I wrote you , and I don't believe you would think that was my best chance with the opportunities you could give me . 
It seems foolish to stay here , abused as I have been lately , and as I will be tomorrow . 
You have the house number . 
If you come and get me out of it by noon tomorrow , I'll go with you . 
You may take out those adoption papers you have always entreated me to agree to and I'll be a daughter that you can be proud of . 
It will be a relief to have some real money and some real position , and to breathe freely and be myself once more . 
All right for you , girlie ! bellowed the great voice over the line . 
Pick up any little personal bits you can put in a suitcase , and by twelve o'clock tomorrow I'll whisk you right out of that damn mess . 
Eileen walked from the telephone booth with her head high , triumph written all over her face and figure . 
They were going to humiliate her . 
She would show them ! She went home immediately . 
Entering her room , she closed the door and stood looking at her possessions . 
She remembered a huge house , all turrets and towers and gables , all turns and twists and angles , closed to the light of day and glowing inside with shining artificial lights . 
She remembered stumbling over deep rugs . 
One vivid impression was of walls covered with huge canvases , some of them having frames more than a foot wide . 
She remembered knights in armor , and big fireplaces , and huge urns and vases . 
It seemed to her like the most wonderful bazaar she ever had been in . 
She paused one instant , contemplating this picture . 
The look of triumph on her face toned down considerably . 
Then she comforted herself aloud . 
I've heard Mother say , she said softly , that everybody overdid things and did not know how to be graceful with immense fortunes got from silver and gold mines , and lumber . 
It will be different now . 
Probably they don't live in the same house , even . 
There is a small army of servants , and there is nothing I can think of that Uncle Jim won't gladly get me . 
I've been too big a fool for words to live this way as long as I have . 
Crush me , will they ? I'll show them ! I won't even touch these things I have strained so to get . 
Eileen jerked from her throat the strand of pearls that she had worn continuously for four years and threw it contemptuously on her dressing table . 
I'll make Uncle Jim get me a rope with two or three strands in it that will reach to my waist . 
'A suitcase ! I don't know what I would fill a suitcase with from here . 
The trunk may stay in the garret , and while I am leaving all this rubbish , I'll just leave John Gilman with it . 
I'll put on the most suitable thing I have to travel in , and just walk out and leave everything else . 
That was what Eileen did . 
At noon the next day her eyes were bright with nervousness . 
Her cheeks alternately paled with fear and flooded red with anxiety . 
She had dressed herself carefully , laid out her hat and gloves and a heavy coat in case the night should be chilly . 
Once she stood looking at the dainty , brightly colored dresses hanging in her wardrobe A flash of regret passed over her face . 
Tawdry little cheap things and makeshifts , she said . 
She was not looking at its helpful hills , at its appealing curves , at its brilliant colors . 
She was watching the roadway . 
When Katy rang to call her to lunch , she told her to put the things away she was expecting people who would take her out to lunch presently . 
In the past years she had occasionally written to her uncle . 
Several times when he had had business in Los Angeles she had met him at his hotel and dined with him . 
She reasoned that he would come straight to the house and get her , and then they would go to one of the big hotels for lunch before they started . 
I shan't feel like myself , said Eileen , until we are well on the way to San Francisco . 
At one o'clock she was walking the floor . 
At two she was almost frantic . 
At half past she almost wished that she had had the good sense to have some lunch , since she was very hungry and under tense nerve strain . 
Once she paused before the glass , but what she saw frightened her . 
Eileen rushed to the window . 
She took one look , caught up the suitcase and raced down the stairs . 
At the door she met a bluff , big man , gross from head to foot . 
It seemed to Eileen strange that she could see in him even a trace of her mother , and yet she could . 
Red veins crossed his cheeks and glowed on his nose . 
His tired eyes were watery his thick lips had an inclination to sag but there was heartiness in his voice and earnestness in the manner in which he picked her up . 
What have they been doing to you down here ? he demanded . 
Never should have left you this long . 
Ought to have come down and taken you and showed you what you wanted , and then you would have known whether you wanted it or not . 
At this juncture a huge woman , gross in a feminine way as her husband was in his , paddled up the walk . 
I'm comin' in and rest a few minutes , she said . 
I'm tired to death and I'm pounded to pieces . 
Her husband turned toward her . 
He opened his lips to introduce Eileen . 
So this is the Eileen you have been ravin' about for years , she said . 
I thought you said she was a pretty girl . 
Eileen's soul knew one sick instant of recoil . 
She looked from James Heitman to Caroline , his wife , and remembered that he had a habit of calling her Callie . 
She was not in any condition to criticize the appearance of another woman . 
For one second Eileen hesitated , then she lifted her shaking hands to her hat . 
I have been hounded out of my senses , she said apologetically , and have been so terribly anxious for fear you wouldn't get here on time . 
Please , Aunt Caroline , let us go to a hotel , some place where we can straighten up comfortably . 
Well , what's your hurry ? said Aunt Caroline coolly . 
Eileen turned and threw open the door . 
The big woman walked in . 
She looked down the hall , up the stairway , and went on to the living room . 
She gave it one contemptuous glance , and turning , came back to the door . 
All right , Jim , she said brusquely . 
If you know the best hotel in the town , take me there . 
And then , if Eileen's in such a hurry , after we have had a bite we'll start for home . 
Thank you , Aunt Caroline , oh , thank you ! cried Eileen . 
You needn't take the trouble to 'aunt' me every time you speak to me , said the lady . 
I know you're my niece , but I ain't goin' to remind you of it every time I speak to you . 
It's agein' , this 'auntie' business . 
I don't stand for it , and as for a name , I am free to confess I always like the way Jim calls me 'Callie . 
That sounds younger and more companionable than 'Caroline . 
James Heitman looked at Eileen and winked . 
You just bet , old girl ! he said . 
They ain't any of them can beat you , not even Eileen at her best . 
Let's get her out of here . 
Does this represent your luggage , girlie ? You said not to bother with anything else , said Eileen . 
So I did , said Uncle Jim , and I meant just what I said if it's all right with you . 
Oh , never mind , interrupted Eileen . 
Any minute they may send for me from the bank , and I'd be more than glad to be out of the way . 
Well , I'm not accustomed to being the porter , but if time's that precious , here we go , said Uncle Jim . 
He picked up the suitcase with one hand and took his wife's arm with the other . 
Scoot down there and climb into that boat , he said proudly to Eileen . 
We'll have a good dinner in a private room when we get to the hotel . 
And then we'll get out of here when we have rested a little . 
Can't we stay all night and go in the morning ? panted his wife . 
No , ma'am , we can't , said James Heitman authoritatively . 
We'll eat a bite because we need to be fed up , and I sincerely hope they's some decent grub to be had in this burg . 
The first place we come to outside of here , that looks like they had a decent bed , we'll stop and make up for last night . 
But we ain't a goin' to stay here if Eileen wants us to start right away , eh , Eileen ? Yes , please ! panted Eileen . 
I just don't want to meet any of them . 
It's time enough for them to know what has happened after I am gone . 
All right then , said Uncle James . 
Pile in and we'll go . 
So Eileen started on the road to the unlimited wealth her soul had always craved . 
Linda's First Party At the bank Linda and John Gilman waited an hour past the time set for Eileen's appearance . 
There is nothing to do but go over the revenue from the estate . 
The books will show what Eileen has drawn monthly for her expense budget . 
That can be set aside and the remainder divided equally between us . 
Here is a letter I wrote to the publishers of Father's books asking about royalties . 
I haven't even opened it . 
I will turn it in with the remainder of the business . 
They were in the office with the president of the bank . 
None of them knew any source of separate income she might have . 
At a suggestion from Linda , the paying teller was called in and asked if he could account for any of the funds that had gone into the private account . 
Not definitely , he said , but the amounts always corresponded exactly with the royalties from the books . 
I strongly suspect that they constitute this private account of Miss Eileen's . 
But he did not say that she had tried to draw it the day previous . 
John Gilman made the suggestion that they should let the matter rest until Eileen explained about it . 
Then Linda spoke very quietly , but with considerable finality in her tone . 
No , she said , I know that Eileen HAD no source of private income . 
They never came to see us and we never went to see them . 
Eileen knows no more about them than I do . 
We will work upon the supposition that everything that is here belonged to Father . 
Set aside to Eileen's credit the usual amount for housekeeping expenses . 
Turn the private account in with the remainder . 
Start two new bank books , one for Eileen and one for me . 
Divide the surplus each month exactly in halves . 
With the key in her possession , Linda and John Gilman left the bank . 
As they stood for a moment in front of the building , Gilman removed his hat and ran his hands through his hair as if it were irritating his head . 
Linda , he said in a deeply wistful tone , I don't understand this . 
I have the key , but I would like to have you with me , and Eileen if she is in the house , when I open that door . 
I don't know what is behind it , but there's a certain feeling that always has been strong in my heart and it never was so strong as it is at this minute . 
So they boarded the street car and ran out to Lilac Valley . 
When Katy admitted them Linda put her arm around her and kissed her . 
She could see that the house was freshly swept and beautifully decorated with flowers , and her trained nostrils could scent whiffs of delicious odors from food of which she was specially fond . 
In all her world Katy was the one person who was celebrating her birthday . 
She seemed rather surprised when Linda and Gilman came in together . 
Where is Eileen ? inquired Linda . 
She must have made some new friends , said Katy . 
About four o'clock , the biggest car that ever roared down this street rolled up , and the biggest man and woman that I ever see came puffin' and pantin' in . 
Belike it's another of them trips to Riverside or Pasadena . 
Very likely , said Linda quietly . 
And he said he would run up to the garage and get into his raygimentals , whatever them might be , and he would be here at six o'clock . 
So ye got a guest for dinner , and if the custard's scorched and the cake's flat , it's up to ye for kapin' me here to tell ye all this . 
Then Katy hurried to the kitchen . 
Linda looked at John Gilman and smiled . 
Isn't that like her ? she said . 
Then she led the way to the library , pulled aside the books , fitted the key to the little door , and opened it . 
Inside lay a single envelope , sealed and bearing her name . 
This minute I think it's extremely probable . 
Before I open this envelope I am going to tell you what I believe it contains . 
If it does not say this , then there is nothing in race and blood and inherited tendencies . 
Four years later I met and fell in love with the only mother you ever have known . 
At the time of our marriage we entered into a solemn compact that her little daughter by a former marriage and mine should be reared as sisters . 
I was to give half my earnings and to do for Eileen exactly as I did for you . 
She was to give half her love and her best attention to your interests . 
I sincerely hope that what I have done will not result in any discomfort or inconvenience to you . 
With dearest love , as ever your father , ALEXANDER STRONG . 
Linda laid the sheet on the table and dropped her hands on top of it . 
Then she looked at John Gilman . 
She must have been in touch with them . 
John Gilman sat very still for a long time , then he raised tired , disappointed eyes to Linda's face . 
If you want me to answer that question candidly , I'll answer it . 
I want the truth , said John Gilman gravely . 
Well , said Linda , I never knew Eileen to be honest about anything in all her life unless the truth served her better than an evasion . 
Her hair was not honest color and it was not honest curl . 
Her eyebrows were not so dark as she made them . 
Her cheeks and lips were not so red , her forehead and throat were not so white , her form was not so perfect . 
Her friends were selected because they could serve her . 
As long as you were poor and struggling , Marian was welcome to you . 
When you won a great case and became prosperous and fame came rapidly , Eileen took you . 
I believe what I told you a minute ago I think she has gone for good . 
I think she went because she had not been fair and she would not be forced to face the fact before you and me and the president of the Consolidated today . 
I won't ask you to stay tonight , because you must go through the same black waters Marian breasted , and you will want to be alone . 
Then Linda rose , replaced the letter , turned the key in the lock , and quietly slipped out of the room . 
When she opened her door and stepped into her room she paused in astonishment . 
Spread out upon the bed lay a dress of georgette with little touches of fur and broad ribbons of satin . 
In color it was like the flame of seasoned beechwood . 
The lines were terse and to the point . 
Linda laid them down , and picking up the dress she walked to the mirror , and holding it under her chin glanced down the length of its reflection . 
What she saw almost stunned her . 
Oh , good Lord ! she said . 
Then she tossed the dress on the bed and started in a headlong rush to the kitchen . 
As she came through the door , You blessed old darling ! she cried . 
What am I going to say to make you know how I appreciate your lovely , lovely gift ? Katy raised her head . 
There was something that is supposed to be the prerogative of royalty in the lift of it . 
Her smile was complacent in the extreme . 
Don't ye be standin' there wastin' no time talkie' , she said . 
I have oodles of time , said Linda , but I warn you , you won't know me if I put on that frock , Katy . 
Yes , I will , too , said Katy . 
Katy , said Linda , sobering suddenly , would it make any great difference to you if I were the only one here for always , after this ? Katy laughed contemptuously . 
Well , I'd warrant to survive it , she said coolly . 
But that is exactly what I must tell you , Katy , said Linda soberly . 
My guess is , Katy , that Eileen has gone with them for good . 
Lock her door and don't touch her things until we know certainly what she wants done with them . 
Katy stood thinking intently , then she lifted her eyes to Linda's . 
Lambie , she whispered softly , are we ixpicted to go into mourning over this ? A mischievous light leaped into Linda's eyes . 
I'm jist so glad and thankful that I don't know what to do , and it's such good news that I don't belave one word of it . 
And while you're talkie' , what about John Gilman ? I think , said Linda quietly , that tonight is going to teach him how Marian felt in her blackest hours . 
Well , he needn't be coming to me for sympathy , said Katy . 
But if Miss Eileen has gone to live with the folks that come after her the day , ye might be savin' a wee crap o' sympathy for her , lambie . 
They was jist the kind of people that you'd risk your neck slidin' down a mountain to get out of their way . 
That is too bad , said Linda reflectively because Eileen is sensitive and constant contact with crass vulgarity certainly would wear on her nerves . 
Now you be goin' and gettin' into that dress , lambie , said Katy . 
Katherine O'Donovan , said Linda , you're used to it come again to confession . 
Tell me truly where and how did you get that dress ? 'Tain't no rule of polite society to be lookin' gift horses in the mouth , said Katy proudly . 
HOW I got it is me own affair , jist like ye got any gifts ye was ever makin' me , is yours . 
If an artist had been selecting a dress for me he would probably have chosen that one . 
But , old dear , it's not suitable for me . 
It's not the kind of dress that I intended to wear for years and years yet . 
Then she looked Linda over piercingly . 
Yes , ma'am , she said conclusively . 
It's my judgment that ye will . 
Then I think ye'll hang it in your closet and put on your boots and breeches and go back to your old Multiflores and attind to your business , the same as before . 
Katy dear , the 'Day of Jubilee' has come . 
Then Linda raced to her room and began dressing . 
She let down the mop of her hair waving below her waist and looked at it despairingly . 
That dress never was made for braids down your back , she said , glancing toward the bed where it lay shimmering in a mass of lovely color . 
I am of age today for state occasions I should be a woman . 
What shall I do with it ? And then she recalled Katy's voice saying Braids round your head . 
Of course , said Linda , that would be the thing to do . 
I certainly don't need anything to add to my height I am far too tall now . 
She slipped into the dress and struggled with its many and intricate fastenings . 
Then she went to the guest room to stand before the full length mirror there . 
Again she studied herself critically . 
I am almost offensively uncovered . 
Then she went down to show herself to a delighted Katy . 
When the doorbell rang Linda turned toward the hall . 
Katy reached a detaining hand . 
You'll do nothing of the sort , she said . 
I answered the bell for Miss Eileen . 
Answer the bell I shall for you . 
Down the hall went Katy with the light of battle in her eyes and the air of a conqueror in the carriage of her head . 
Neither eyelid quivered as she flung the door wide to Peter Morrison . 
He stood there in dinner dress , more imposing than Katy had thought he could be . 
With quick , inner exultation she reached for two parcels he carried over them her delight was so overpowering that Peter Morrison must have seen a hint of it . 
With a flourish Katy seated him , and carried the packages to Linda . 
She returned a second later for a big vase , and in this Linda arranged a great sheaf of radiant roses . 
The other package was a big box that when opened showed its interior to be divided into compartments in each of which nestled an exquisite flower made of spun sugar . 
The petals , buds , and leaves were perfect . 
There were wonderful roses with pale pink outer petals and deeper colored hearts . 
There were pink mallows that seemed as if they must have been cut from the bushes bordering Santa Monica road . 
There were hollyhocks of white and gold , and simply perfect tulips . 
Linda never before had seen such a treasure candy box . 
She cried out in delight , and hurried to show Katy . 
She had grown accustomed to Peter in khaki pottering around his building . 
This Peter she never before had seen . 
He represented something of culture , something of pride , a conformity to a nice custom and something more . 
Linda was not a psychoanalyst . 
She could not see a wonderful aura of exquisite color enveloping Peter . 
Peter , she said gaily , do you know that this is my Day of Jubilee ? I am a woman today by law , Peter . 
Hereafter I am to experience at least a moderate degree of financial freedom , and that I shall enjoy . 
But the greatest thing in life is friends . 
Peter took both the hands extended to him and looked smilingly into her eyes . 
You take my breath , he said . 
I knew , the first glimpse I ever had of you scrambling from the canyon floor , that this transformation COULD take place . 
My good fortune is beyond words that I have been first to see it . 
Permit me , fair lady . 
Peter bent and kissed both her hands . 
He hesitated a second , then he turned the right hand and left one more kiss in its palm . 
To have and to hold ! he said whimsically . 
Thank you , said Linda , closing her fist over it and holding it up for inspection . 
I'll see that it doesn't escape . 
And this minute I thank you for the candy , which I know is delicious , and for my very first sheaf of roses from any man . 
And then she gave him a shock . 
Isn't it a lovely frock ? she said . 
Another birthday gift from the Strong rock of ages . 
I have been making a collection of rocks for my fern bed , and I have got another collection that is not visible to anyone save myself . 
Katy's a rock , and you're a rock , and Donald is a rock , and Marian's a rock , and I am resting securely on all of you . 
I wish my father knew that in addition to Marian and Katy I have found two more such wonderful friends . 
And what about Henry Anderson ? inquired Peter . 
Aren't you going to include him ? Linda walked over to the chair in which she intended to seat herself . 
Peter , she said , I wish you hadn't asked me that . 
She looked at Peter confidently . 
Do you suppose , she said , that I can sit down in this thing without ruining it ? Shouldn't I really stand up while I am wearing it ? Peter laughed unrestrainedly . 
Linda , you're simply delicious , he said . 
It seems to me that I have seen young ladies in like case reach round and gather the sash to one side and smooth out the skirt as they sit . 
Thank you , Peter , of course that would be the way , said Linda . 
This being my first , I'm lacking in experience . 
And thereupon she sat according to direction while Peter sat opposite her . 
Just one word more about Henry Anderson , he said . 
Are you perfectly sure there is nothing I need do for you in that connection ? Oh , perfectly , said Linda lightly . 
I didn't mean to alarm you . 
He merely carried that bug catcher nonsense a trifle too far . 
I wouldn't have minded humoring him and fooling about it a little . 
But , Peter , do you know him quite well ? Are you very sure of him ? No , said Peter , I don't know him well at all . 
The only thing I am sure about him is that he is doing well in his profession . 
Then , said Linda , he is all right , of course . 
But I think I'm like a cat . 
I guess it's because I am such a wild creature . 
Do you mean to say , said Peter , that these are the sensations that Henry gives you ? Linda nodded . 
Now forget Henry , she said . 
I have had such a big day I must tell you about it , and then we'll come to that last article you left me . 
Peter , I have just come from the bank , where I was recognized as of legal age , and my guardian discharged . 
And perhaps I ought to explain to you , Peter , that your friend , John Gilman , is not here because this night is going to be a bad one for him . 
When you knew him best he was engaged , or should have been , to Marian Thorne . 
When you met him this time he really was engaged to Eileen . 
I don't know what you think about Eileen . 
I don't feel like influencing anyone's thought concerning her , so I'll merely say that today has confirmed a conviction that always has been in my heart . 
Katy could tell you that long ago I said to her that I did not believe Eileen was my sister . 
Today has brought me the knowledge and proof positive that she is not , and today she has gone to some wealthy relatives of her mother in San Francisco . 
She expressed her contempt for what she was giving up by leaving everything , including the exquisite little necklace of pearls which has been a daily part of her since she owned them . 
I may be mistaken , but intuition tells me that with the pearls and the wardrobe she has also discarded John Gilman . 
I think your friend will be suffering tonight quite as deeply as my friend suffered when John abandoned her at a time when she had lost everything else in life but her money . 
I feel very sure that we won't see Eileen any more . 
I hope she will have every lovely thing in life . 
Amen , said Peter Morrison earnestly . 
When Katy announced dinner Linda arose . 
Peter Morrison stepped beside her and offered his arm . 
Linda rested her finger tips upon it and he led her to the head of the table and seated her . 
Then Katy served a meal that , if it had been prepared for Eileen , she would have described as a banquet . 
She gave them delicious , finely flavored food , stimulating , exquisitely compounded drinks that she had concocted from the rich fruits of California and mints and essences at her command . 
Linda looked at Katy inquiringly , and Katy , her face beaming , nodded her sandy red head emphatically . 
More birthday gifts you've havin' , me lady , she said in her mellowest Irish voice . 
She picked up the larger package , and opening it , found a beautiful book inscribed from her friend Donald , over which she passed caressing fingers . 
Why , how lovely of him ! she said . 
How in this world did he know ? Katherine O'Donovan could have answered that question , but she did not . 
The other package was from Marian . 
When she opened it Linda laughed unrestrainedly . 
What a joke ! she said . 
This is Marian's way of telling me that I am almost a woman . 
Will you look at this ? Well , just what is it ? inquired Peter . 
Hairpins , laughed Linda , and hair ornaments , and a box of face powder , and the little , feminine touches that my dressing table needs badly . 
How would you like , Peter , to finish your cigar in my workroom ? I would like it immensely , said Peter . 
So together they climbed to the top of the house . 
Linda knelt and made a little ceremony of lighting the first fire in her fireplace . 
She pushed one of her chairs to one side for Peter , and taking the other for herself , she sat down and began the process of really becoming acquainted with him . 
He looked at it so closely that he did not miss even the stinger . 
Linda stood beside him when he made his first dazed comment If that isn't Eileen , and true to the life ! I must take that down , said Linda . 
I did it one night when my heart was full of bitterness . 
Better leave it , said Peter drily . 
Do you think I need it as a warning ? asked Linda . 
Peter turned and surveyed her slowly . 
Linda , he said quietly , what I think of you has not yet been written in any of the books . 
Buena Moza As soon as Peter had left her Linda took her box of candy flowers and several of her finest roses and went to Katy's room . 
She found Katy in a big rocking chair , her feet on a hassock , reading a story in Everybody's home . 
When her door opened and she saw her young mistress framed in it she tossed the magazine aside and sprang to her feet , but Linda made her resume her seat . 
The girl shortened the stems of the roses and put them in a vase on Katy's dresser . 
Ah , the foine gintleman ! cried Katy . 
Sure 'twas only a pape I had when ye opened the box , an' I didn't know how rare them beauties railly was . 
Choose the one you like best , said Linda . 
But Katy would not touch the delicate things , so Linda selected a brushy hollyhock for her and then sat at her knee again . 
I'd love to be havin' her . 
I'd agree to take orders from Miss Marian and to be takin' care of her jist almost the same as I do of ye , Miss Linda . 
The one thing I don't like about it is that it ain't fair nor right to give even Marian the best . 
I wouldn't mind a change as soon as I have time to get what I'd need to make the change . 
I'll take the guest room for mine , and you may call in a decorator and have my room freshly done and the guest things moved into it . 
Linda reached up and touched the frowning lines on her forehead . 
Brighten your lovely features with a smile , Katherine me dear , she said gaily . 
Don't be forgetting that this is our Day of Jubilee . 
We are free I hope we are free forever from petty annoyances and dissatisfactions and little , galling things that sear the soul and bring out all the worst in human nature . 
If Marian will give me permission to move and install her things in it , I think she can use it without any such feeling , but I couldn't . 
Oh , fine , Katy Marian would be delighted ! cried Linda , springing up . 
I didn't get the proof that she was not my sister until after I came home . 
It means , too , that I shall be able to repay your loan immediately and to do the things that I wanted to do about the house . 
Now I ain't in any hurry about that money , lambie , said Katy and you understand of course that the dress you're wearing' I am given' ye . 
Of course , old dear , and you should have seen Peter Morrison light up and admire it . 
He thinks you have wonderful taste , Katy . 
Katy threw up both her hands . 
Oh , my Lord , lambie ! she cried , aghast . 
Was you telling' him that the dress ye were wearing' was a present from your old cook ? Why , certainly I was , said Linda , wide eyed with astonish meet . 
Why shouldn't I ? I was proud to . 
And now , old dear , before I go , the biggest secret of all . 
Ye ain't manin' it , lambie ? Yes , I are , laughed Linda . 
Won't it be the most fun ? My soul ! said Katy . 
I don't belave a word you're telling' me . 
But I can prove it , because I have the letter and the bank book , said Linda . 
But he does know , Katy , said Linda . 
She went to her room , removed the beautiful dress and , arranging it on a hanger , left it in her closet . 
Slipping into an old dressing gown , she ran to her workroom and wrote a letter to Marian from herself . 
Linda shut her lips very tight and stared up through her skylight to the stars , as she was fast falling into a habit of doing when she wanted inspiration . 
The bulbs themselves have many uses . 
Crushed and rubbed up in water they make a delightful cleansing lather . 
The extracted juice , when cooked down , may be used as glue . 
Of the roasted bulbs effective poultices for bruises and boils may be made . 
Remove the fibrous cover down to the second or third layer enclosing the bulb . 
These jackets are necessary as they keep the bulbs from drying out and having a hard crust . 
Roast them exactly as you would potatoes . 
When they can easily be pierced with a silver fork remove from the oven , and serve immediately with any course with which you would use baked potatoes . 
And gee , but they're good ! commented Linda as she reread what she had written . 
After that she turned her attention to drawing a hillside whitened here and there with amole bloom showing in its purity against the warm grayish tan background . 
The waving green leaves ran among big rocks and overlapped surrounding growth . 
At the right of her drawing Linda sketched in a fine specimen of monkey flower , deepening the yellow from the hearts of the amole lilies for the almost human little monkey faces . 
For a long time Linda sat with poised pencil , studying her foreground . 
When she could make no further improvement on this sketch , she carefully stretched it against the wall and tacked it up to dry . 
Linda already had held a consultation with Katy on the subject of the lunch basket . 
That matter being satisfactorily arranged , there was nothing for her to do but to double on her work so that Saturday would be free . 
Friday evening Linda was called from the dinner table to the telephone . 
I have a very competent man looking into the matter thoroughly , and I find that your fear is amply justified . 
Wherever you go or whatever you do , use particular care . 
Don't have anything to do with any stranger . 
Just use what your judgment and common sense tell you is a reasonable degree of caution in every direction no matter how trivial . 
You understand ? I do , said Linda promptly . 
All right then , said Linda . 
Ask the party we are considering and he will tell you where he will be tomorrow . 
Thank you very much for letting me know . 
If anything should occur , you will understand that it was something quite out of my range of fore sight . 
I understand , said the Judge . 
With all care and many loving admonitions Katy assisted in the start made early Saturday morning . 
The previous Saturday Linda had felt that all nature along the road she planned to drive would be at its best , but they had not gone far until she modified her decision . 
They were slipping through mists of early morning , over level , carefully made roads like pavilion floors . 
At that hour there were few cars abroad . 
Linda was dressed in her outing suit of dark green . 
She had removed her hat and slipped it on the seat beside her . 
She looked at Donald , a whimsical expression on her most expressive young face . 
Please to 'scuse me , she said lightly , if I step on the gas a mite while we have the road so much to ourselves and are so familiar with it . 
Later , when we reach stranger country and have to share with others , we'll be forced to go slower . 
Don't stint your speed on account of me , said Donald . 
I am just itching to know what Kitty can do . 
All right , here's your chance , said Linda . 
Hear her purr ? She settled her body a trifle tensely , squared her shoulders , and gripped the steering wheel . 
Then she increased the gas and let the Bear Cat roll over the smooth road from Lilac Valley running south into Los Angeles . 
At a speed that was near to flying as a non professional attains , the youngsters traveled that road . 
Their eyes were shining their blood was racing . 
Until the point where rougher roads and approaching traffic forced them to go slower , they raced , and when they slowed down they looked at each other and laughed in morning delight . 
The height of my ambition is to own a Bear Cat . 
If Father makes any mention of anything I would like particularly to have for a graduation present , I am cocked and primed as to what I shall tell him . 
You'd better save yourself a disappointment , said Linda soberly . 
He would fear you would never make a grade that would be a credit to him if he did . 
She was touching the beginning of Los Angeles traffic . 
Later she was on the open road again . 
The mists were thinning and lifting . 
The perfume was not so heavy . 
Sometimes Linda lifted her hand from the wheel to wave a passing salute to a particularly appealing flower picture . 
Sometimes she whistled a note or cried a greeting to a mockingbird , a rosy finch , or a song sparrow . 
Look at the pie timber ! she cried to Donald , calling his attention to a lawn almost covered with red winged blackbirds . 
Four hundred and twenty might be baked in that pie , she laughed . 
Then a subtle change began to creep over the world . 
The sun peered over the mountains inquiringly , a timid young thing , as if she were asking what degree of light and warmth they would like for the day . 
Studying their ancient records one could see that they had been familiar with the star that rested over Bethlehem . 
On their faces had shone the same moon that opened the highways Journeying into Damascus . 
Sometimes Linda stopped the car , they left it , and climbed over the faces of these mighty upheavals . 
Once Linda reached her hand to Donald and cried , half laughingly , half in tense earnest Oh , kid , we have got to hurry . 
Compared with the age of these , we've only a few minutes . 
Beside them I feel as a shrimp must feel beside a whale , and I feel that we must hurry . 
And so we must , said Donald . 
I'm hungry as Likeliest when he waited for them to find enough peacock tongues to satisfy his appetite . 
I wonder what brand of home brew made him think of that , said Linda . 
Well , you know , said Donald , the world was only a smallish place then . 
They didn't have to go far to find everything to which they had access , and it must have been rather a decent time in which to live . 
Awful lot of light and color and music and unique entertainment . 
You're talking , said Linda , from the standpoint of the king or the master . 
Suppose you had lived then and had been the slave . 
There you go again , said Donald , throwing a brick into the most delicate mechanism of my profound thought . 
You ought to be ashamed to round me up with something scientific and materialistic every time I go a glimmering . 
A few miles farther on they followed the road around the frowning menace of an overhanging rock and sped out directly to the panorama of the sea . 
The sun was shining on it , but , as always round the Laguna shore , the rip tide was working itself into undue fury . 
It came dashing up on the ancient rocks until one could easily understand why a poet of long ago wrote of sea horses . 
Some of the waves did suggest monstrous white chargers racing madly to place their feet upon the solid rock . 
Just where the vegetation met the white , sea washed sand , Linda spread the Indian blanket , and Donald brought the lunch box . 
At their feet adventurous waves tore themselves to foam on the sharp rocks . 
On their left they broke in booming spray , tearing and fretting the base of cliffs that had stood impregnable through aeons of such ceaseless attack and repulse . 
When I go to college this winter t . 
It's no wonder the artists of all the world come here copying these pictures . 
It's no wonder they build these bungalows and live here for years , unsatisfied with their efforts to reproduce the pictures of the Master Painter of them all . 
I wonder , said Linda , if anybody is very easily satisfied . 
I wonder today if Eileen is satisfied with being merely rich . 
I wonder if we are satisfied to have this golden day together . 
I wonder if the white swallows are satisfied with the sea . 
I wonder if those rocks are satisfied and proud to stand impregnable against the constant torment of the tide . 
I wonder , oh , Lord , how I wonder , broke in Donald , about Katherine O'Donovan's lunch box . 
If you want a picture of per feet satisfaction , Belinda beloved , lead me to it ! Thank heaven you're mistaken , she said they spared me the 'Be' . 
Well , I'm not sparing you the 'Be , said Donald , busy with the fastenings of the lunch basket . 
Did you hear where I used it ? Yes , child , and I like it heaps , said Linda casually . 
It's fine to have you like me . 
You have two members of our family at your feet , said Donald soberly as he handed her packages from the box . 
And why not ? asked Linda lightly . 
Well , he didn't just mention it , said Donald , but I can . 
easily see how it might have been . 
Linda pointed out the rocks upon which she would sit , if she were a mermaid , to comb the seaweed from her hair . 
She could hear the sea bells ringing in those menacing depths , but Donald's ears were not so finely tuned . 
Donald looked at the fascinating growth appraisingly . 
I find it everywhere but you have never told me what it is . 
Linda laughingly reached up and broke a spray of greenish yellow tubular flowers , curving out like clustered trumpets spilling melody from their fluted throats . 
You will see it everywhere . 
You will find these flowers every month of the year , she said , and I am particularly gladsome that this plant reminds you of me . 
I love the bluish green 'bloom' of its sheer foliage . 
I love the music these flower trumpets make to me . 
I love the way it has traveled , God knows how , all the way from the Argentine and spread itself over our country wherever it is allowed footing . 
I am glad that there is soothing in these dried leaves for those who require it . 
I shall be delighted to set my seal on you with it . 
There are two little Spanish words that it suggests to the Mexican Buena moza but you shall find out for yourself what they mean . 
Encountering his father that night at his library door , Donald Whiting said to him May I come in , Dad ? I have something I must look up before I sleep . 
Have you a Spanish lexicon , or no doubt you have this in your head . 
Well , I've a halting vocabulary , said the Judge . 
She gave me the Spanish name , but I don't know the exact significance of the decoration I am wearing until I learn the meaning of the phrase . 
Try me on it , said the Judge . 
'Buena moza , quoted Donald . 
The Judge threw back his head and laughed heartily . 
Son , he said , you should know that from the Latin you're learning . 
You should translate it instinctively . 
I couldn't tell you exactly whether a Spaniard would translate 'Buena' 'fine' or 'good . 
Knowing their high falutin' rendition of almost everything else I would take my chance on 'fine . 
Son , your phrase means 'a fine girl . 
Donald looked down at the flower in his buttonhole , and then he looked straight at his father . 
And only the Lord knows , Dad , he said soberly , exactly how fine Linda girl is . 
A Mouse Nest LINDA DEAREST I am delighted that you had such a wonderful birthday . 
I would take a shot in air that anything you don't understand about it you might with reasonable safety charge to Katherine O'Donovan . 
I think it was great of her to have a suitable and a becoming dress waiting for you and a congenial man like Peter Morrison to dine with you . 
I never shall be worried about you so long as I know that he is taking care of you . 
I should not be surprised if some day I meet Eileen somewhere , because Dana and I are going about more than you would believe possible . 
I heartily join with you in wishing her every good that life can bring her . 
And just as simply and wholeheartedly as you made the offer , I accept it . 
I am enclosing the address and the receipt for my furniture in storage , and a few lines ordering it delivered at your house and the bill sent to me . 
I only kept a few heirlooms and things of Mother's and Father's that are very precious to me . 
Whenever Eileen takes her things you can order mine in and let me know , and I'll take a day or two off and run down for a short visit . 
Mentioning Eileen makes me think of John . 
I think of him more frequently than I intend or wish that I did , but I feel my ninth life is now permanently extinguished concerning him . 
I thought I detected in your letter , Linda dear , a hint of fear that he might come back to me and that I might welcome him . 
I couldn't give the finest loyalty and comradeship I had to give to a man , have it returned disdainfully , and then furbish up the pieces and present it over again . 
Never in my life will any man make any headway with me again with vague suggestions and innuendoes and hints . 
I learned my lesson about the futility of building your house of dreams on a foundation of sand . 
Next time I erect a dream house , it is going to have a proper foundation of solid granite . 
I should not be surprised if I were to recognize him the first time I met him face to face . 
Linda looked through the skylight and cried out to the stars Good heavens ! Have I copied Peter too closely ? She sat thinking a minute and then she decided she had not . 
And in this connection you will want to know how I am progressing in my friendship with the junior partner , and what kind of motorist I am making . 
I am still driving twice a week , and lately on Sundays in a larger car , taking Dana and a newspaper friend of hers along . 
I think I have driven every hazard that this part of California affords except the mountains Mr. Snow is still merciful about them . 
Linda dear , I know what you're dying to know . 
You want to know whether Mr. Snow is in the same depths of mourning as when our acquaintance first began . 
This , my dear child , is very reprehensible of you . 
Young girls with braids down their backs and by the way , Linda , you did not tell me what happened after the ball was over . 
I have tried and tried to visualize you , and can't satisfy my mind as to whether the braids are up or down . 
I have not been asked , the last four or five trips we have been on , to carry an armload of exquisite flowers to the shrine of a departed love . 
I have been privileged to take them home and arrange them in my room and Dana's . 
And I haven't heard so much talk about loneliness , and I haven't seen such tired , sad eyes . 
It seems to me that a familiar pair of shoulders are squaring up to the world again , and a very kind pair of eyes are brighter with interest . 
I don't know how you feel about this I don't know how I feel about it myself . 
I am sure that Eugene Snow is a man who , in the years to come , would line up beside your father and mine , and I like him immensely . 
It is merely a case of not liking him less , but of liking my unknown man more . 
In a recent letter , Linda , there was a reference to a woman who wore a diadem of crystallized light . 
It was a beautiful thing and I could not help taking it personally . 
Of course I am not sufficiently confident yet to say anything definite , but my heart is beginning to say things that I sincerely hope my lips never will be forced to deny . 
Linda laid down the letter , folded her hands across it , and once more looked at the stars . 
Good gracious ! she said . 
I am tincturing those letters with too much Peter . 
I'll have to tone down a bit . 
Next thing I know she will be losing her chance with that wonderful Snow man for a dream . 
In my efforts to comfort her I must have gone too far . 
Equally , of course , I outlined and planted the brook and designed the bridge for Marian , whether she knows it or Peter knows it , or not . 
If they don't know it , it's about time they were finding it out . 
I think it's my job to visit Peter more frequently and see if I can't invent some way to make him see the light . 
I will give Katy a hint in the morning . 
Tomorrow evening I'll go up and have supper with him and see if he has another article in the stewpan . 
I like this work with Peter . 
I like having him make me dream dreams and see pictures . 
I like the punch and the virility he puts into my drawings . 
On the subject of Peter , I must remember in the morning to take those old books he gave me to Donald . 
I believe that from one of them he is going to get the very material he needs to down the Jap in philosophy . 
In the hall the next morning Linda stopped Donald and gave him the books . 
He had shown any interested person in the high school that he was her friend , that he was speaking to her exactly as he did to girls he had known from childhood . 
He was very popular among the boys and girls of his class and the whole school . 
His friendship , coming at the time of Linda's rebellion on the subject of clothes , had developed a tendency to bring her other friendships . 
Boys who never had known she was in existence followed Donald's example in stopping her to say a word now and then . 
Linda had laid out for herself something of a task in deciding to be the mental leader of her class . 
There were good brains in plenty among the other pupils . 
Up to the receipt of her letter containing the offer to publish her book she had been able rigorously to exclude from her mind the personality and the undertakings of Jane Meredith . 
She was Linda Strong in the high school and for an hour or two at her studies . 
She was Jane Meredith over the desert , through the canyons , beside the sea , in her Multiflores kitchen or in Katherine O'Donovan's . 
But this book offer opened a new train of thought , a new series of plans . 
She knew herself , she knew her territory so minutely . 
Frequently she smiled when she read statements in her botanies as to where plants and vegetables could be found . 
She knew the high home of the rare and precious snow plant . 
She knew the northern limit of the strawberry cactus . 
She knew where the white sea swallow nested . 
She knew where the Monarch butterfly went on his winter migration . 
She had even sat immovable and watched him erect his house , and she would have given much to see him weave its silver lining . 
Linda was fast coming to the place where she felt herself to be one in an interested group of fellow workers . 
She no longer gave a thought to what kind of shoes she wore . 
Other girls were beginning to wear the same kind . 
The legislatures of half a dozen states were passing laws regulating the height of heel which might be worn within their boundaries . 
The extremely long , dirt sweeping skirts were coming up the extremely short , immodest skirts were coming down . 
A sane and sensible wave seemed to be sweeping the whole country . 
Under the impetus of Donald Whiting's struggles to lead his classes and those of other pupils to lead theirs a higher grade of scholarship was beginning to be developed throughout the high school . 
Pupils were thinking less of what they wore and how much amusement they could crowd in , and more about making grades that would pass them with credit from year to year . 
A tendency was manifesting itself among young people to equip themselves to take a worthy part in the struggles yet to come . 
Always she would be unusual because of her extreme height , her narrow eyes , her vivid coloring . 
But a greater maturity , a fuller figure , had come to be a part of the vision with which one looked at Linda . 
In these days no one saw her as she was . 
Even her schoolmates had fallen into the habit of seeing her as she would be in the years to come . 
Recently so many things had arisen to distract her attention . 
Many days she had not been able to keep Eileen's face off her geometry papers and again she saw Gilman's , anxious and pain filled . 
This day her thoughts were on Peter frequently because she intended to see him that night . 
She was going to share with him a supper of baked ham and beans and bread and butter and pickled onions and little nut cakes , still warm from Katy's oven . 
To Linda it was almost a miracle , the rapidity with which a house could be erected in California . 
She had seen a framework erected , a rooftree set , and joists and rafters and beams swinging into place . 
Fretworks of lead and iron pipe were running everywhere , and wires for electricity . 
Peter , you sound like a centipede , said Linda . 
And then he added a few words on a subject of which he had not before spoken to Linda . 
It was like that in France . 
When we really got into the heat of things and the work was actually being done , we were not afraid we were too busy we were 'supermen . 
It's not the REAL THING when it's really occurring that gets one . 
It's the devils of imagination tormenting the soul . 
There is only one thing in this world can happen to me that is really going to be as bad as the things I dream . 
Linda looked down Lilac Valley , her eyes absently focusing on Katy busily setting supper on a store box in front of the garage . 
Then she looked at Peter . 
Mind telling ? she inquired lightly . 
Peter looked at her speculatively . 
And would a man be telling his heart's best secret to a kid like you ? he asked . 
Now , I call that downright mean , said Linda . 
Haven't you noticed that my braids are up ? Don't you see a maturity and a dignity and a general matronliness apparent all over me today ? Matronliness was too much for Peter . 
You could have heard his laugh far down the blue valley . 
That's good ! he cried . 
It is , agreed Linda . 
It means that my braids are up to stay , so hereafter I'm a real woman . 
And because I am a woman I shall set my seal upon you , she said . 
As she worked , she smiled at him challengingly . 
Peter knew he was experiencing a ceremony of some kind , the significance of which he must learn . 
It was the first time Linda had voluntarily touched him . 
He breathed lightly and held steady , lest he startle her . 
Lovely enough , he said , to have come from the hills of the stars . 
Don't make me wait , Linda help me to the interpretation . 
Buena Mujer , suggested Linda . 
Good woman , translated Peter . 
Linda nodded , running a finger down the leaf over his heart . 
Because she sticks close to you , she explained . 
Then startled by the look in Peter's eyes , she cried in swift change Now we are all going to work for a minute . 
You take this pail and go to the spring for water and I shall tidy your quarters for you . 
With the eye of experience Linda glanced over the garage deciding that she must ask for clean sheets for the cot and that the Salvation Army would like the heap of papers . 
Studying the writing table she heard a faint sound that untrained ears would have missed . 
Ah , ha , Ma wood mouse , said Linda , nibbling Peter's dr , goods are you ? Her cry a minute later answered the question . 
She came from the garage upon Katherine O'Donovan rushing to meet her , holding a man's coat at the length of her far reaching arm . 
I wish you'd look at that pocket . 
I don't know how long this coat has been hanging there , but there is a nest of field mice in it , she said . 
Katy promptly retreated to the improvised dining table , seated herself upon an end of it , and raised both feet straight into the air . 
Small help I'll be getting from you , said Linda laughingly . 
She went to the edge of the declivity that cut back to the garage and with a quick movement reversed the coat catching it by the skirts and shaking it vigorously . 
The Straight and Narrow This served exactly the purpose Linda had intended . 
It dislodged the mouse nest and dropped it three feet below her level , but it did something else upon which Linda had no time to count . 
It emptied every pocket in the coat and sent the contents scattering down the rough declivity . 
Oh my gracious ! gasped Linda . 
Look what I have done ! Katy , come help me quickly I have to gather up this stuff but it's no use I'll have to take it to Peter and tell him . 
I couldn't put these things back in the pockets where his hand will reach for them , because I don't know which came from inside and which came from out . 
Linda sprang down and began hastily gathering up everything she could see that had fallen from the coat pockets . 
She had almost finished when her fingers chanced upon a very soiled , befigured piece of paper whose impressed folds showed that it had been carried for some time in an inner pocket . 
As her fingers touched this paper her eyes narrowed , her breath came in a gasp . 
She looked at it a second , irresolute , then she glanced over the top of the declivity in the direction Peter had taken . 
He was standing in front of the building , discussing some matter with the contractor . 
He had not yet gone to the spring . 
Shielded by the embankment with shaking fingers Linda opened the paper barely enough to see that it was Marian's lost sheet of plans but it was not as Marian had lost it . 
It was scored deeply here and there with heavy lines suggestive of alterations , and the margin was fairly covered with fine figuring . 
Linda did not know Peter Morrison's writing or figures . 
His articles had been typewritten and she had never seen his handwriting . 
She sat down suddenly on account of weakened knees , and gazed unseeingly down the length of Lilac Valley , her heart sick , her brain tormented . 
Suddenly she turned and studied the house . 
Before the Lord ! she gasped . 
She reached for the coat and started to replace the things she had gathered up , then she shut her lips tight . 
Best time to pull a tooth , she said tersely to a terra cotta red manzanita bush , is when it aches . 
When Peter returned from the spring he was faced by a trembling girl , colorless and trying hard to keep her voice steady . 
She held out the coat to him with one hand , the package of papers with the other , the folded drawing conspicuous on the top . 
With these she gestured toward the declivity . 
Mouse nest in your pocket , Peter , she said thickly . 
Reversed the coat to shake it out , and spilled your stuff . 
Then she waited for Peter to be confounded . 
But Peter was not in the faintest degree troubled about either the coat or the papers . 
What did trouble him was the face and the blazing eyes of the girl concerning whom he would not admit , even to himself , his exact state of feeling . 
The mouse did not get on you , Linda ? he asked anxiously . 
Suddenly she lost her self control . 
Oh , Peter , she wailed , how could you do it ? Peter's lean frame tensed suddenly . 
I don't understand , Linda , he said quietly . 
Exactly what have I done ? Linda thrust the coat and the papers toward him accusingly and stood there wordless but with visible pain in her dark eyes . 
peter smiled at her reassuringly . 
That's not my coat , you know . 
If there is anything distressing about it , don't lay it to me . 
Oh , Peter ! cried Linda , tell the truth about it . 
I am so sick of them . 
A rather queer light sprang into Peter's eyes . 
He leaned forward suddenly and caught the coat from Linda's fingers . 
Well , if you need an alibi concerning this coat , he said , I think I can furnish it speedily . 
As he talked he whirled the garment around and shot his long arms into the sleeves . 
Shaking it into place on his shoulders , he slowly turned in front of Linda and the surprised Katy . 
The sleeves came halfway to his wrists and the shoulders slid down over his upper arms . 
He made such a quaint and ridiculous figure that Katy burst out laughing . 
She was very well trained , but she knew Linda was deeply distressed . 
Wake up , lambie ! she cried sharply . 
That coat ain't belonging to Mr. Pater Morrison . 
That gairment is the property of that bug catchin' architect of his . 
Peter shook off the coat and handed it back to Linda . 
Am I acquitted ? he asked lightly but his surprised eyes were searching her from braid to toe . 
Linda turned from him swiftly . 
She thrust the packet into a side pocket and started to the garage with the coat . 
As she passed inside she slipped down her hand , slid the sheet of plans from the other papers , and slipped it into the front of her blouse . 
She hung the coat back where she had found it , then suddenly sat down on the side of Peter Morrison's couch , white and shaken . 
Peter knelt back in wonder . 
Of all the things I ever thought about you , Linda , he said , the one thing I never did think was that you were hysterical . 
If there was one word in Linda's vocabulary more opprobrious than nerves , which could be applied to a woman , it was hysterics . 
The great specialist had admitted nerves hysterics had no standing with him . 
Linda herself had no more use for a hysterical woman than she had for a Gila monster . 
She straightened suddenly , and in removing her hands from her face she laid one on each of Peter's shoulders . 
Oh , Peter , she wailed , I am not a hysterical idiot , but I couldn't have stood it if that coat had been yours . 
Peter , I just couldn't have borne it ! Peter held himself rigidly in the fear that he might disturb the hands that were gripping him . 
I see I have the job of educating these damned field mice as to where they may build with impunity , he said soberly . 
But Linda was not to be diverted . 
She looked straight and deep into his eyes . 
Peter , she said affirmatively , you don't know a thing about that coat , do you ? I do not , said Peter promptly . 
You never saw what was in its pockets , did you ? Not to my knowledge , answered Peter . 
What was in the pockets , Linda ? Linda thought swiftly . 
Peter adored his dream house . 
If she told him that the plans for it had been stolen by his architect , the house would be ruined for Peter . 
Anyone could see from the candor of his gaze and the lines that God and experience had graven on his face that Peter was without guile . 
Suddenly Linda shot her hands past Peter's shoulders and brought them together on the back of his neck . 
She drew his face against hers and cried Oh Peter , I would have been killed if that coat had been yours . 
I tell you I couldn't have endured it , Peter . 
I am just tickled to death ! One instant she hugged him tight . 
If her lips did not brush his cheek , Peter deluded himself . 
Then she sprang up and ran from the garage . 
Later he took the coat from its nail , the papers from its pockets , and carefully looked them over . 
There was nothing among them that would give him the slightest clue to Linda's conduct . 
He looked again , penetratingly , searchingly , for he must learn from them a reason and no reason was apparent . 
With the coat in one hand and the papers in the other he stepped outside . 
Linda , he said , won't you show me ? Won't you tell me ? What is there about this to upset you ? Linda closed her lips and shook her head . 
Once more Peter sought in her face , in her attitude the information he craved . 
Needn't tell me , he said , that a girl who will face the desert and the mountains and the canyons and the sea is upset by a mouse . 
Well , you should have seen Katy sitting in the midst of our supper with her feet rigidly extended before her ! cried the girl , struggling to regain her composure . 
Put back that coat and come to your supper . 
It's time for you to be fed now . 
The last workman has gone and we'll barely have time to finish nicely and show Katy your dream house before it's time to go . 
Peter came and sat in the place Linda indicated . 
In some way she had experienced a shock too great for her usual self possession . 
But that was not the time . 
By and by the time would come . 
The thing to do was to trust Linda and await its coming . 
So Peter called on all the reserve wit and wisdom he had at command . 
When he overtook her she looked at him straightly , her eyes showing the hurt her heart felt . 
Finally he said conclusively I would go on oath , Linda , that he was not . 
We were all together in the living room , all together in the dining room . 
We left together at night and John was with us . 
I see , said Linda . 
We came to your house with Gilman , he said . 
John started to the front door to tell Miss Eileen that we were ready . 
Anderson said he would look at the scenery . 
Ah , said Linda comprehendingly . 
Linda , said Peter quietly , it is very obvious that something has worried you extremely . 
Am I in any way connected with it ? Linda shook her head . 
Is there anything I can do ? The negative was repeated . 
Then she looked at him . 
But I am glad Peter , you will never know how glad I am that you haven't anything to do with it . 
Then in the friendliest fashion imaginable she reached him her hand and led the way back to the Bear Cat , their tightly gripped hands swinging between them . 
As Peter closed the door he looked down on Linda . 
Linda started to laugh , then she saw Peter's eyes and something in them stopped her suddenly . 
I did not realize that I was taking any risk , she said . 
I won't do it again . 
I will say good bye to you right here and now so I needn't look back . 
So she shook hands with Peter and drove away . 
She waved both hands to him , and then gracefully and beautifully , with outstretched , fluttering fingers she made him the sign of birds flying home . 
And then he further reflected as he climbed the hill that if it had to be done the best he could do would be a bantam hen contemplating domesticity . 
Linda looked the garage over very carefully when she put away the Bear Cat . 
When she closed the garage doors she was particular about the locks . 
I am pestered to death with them . 
They used to come jist to water the lawn but now they want to crane the rugs they want to do the wash . 
They are willing to crane house . 
They want to get into the garage they insist on washing the car . 
If they can't wash it they jist want to see if it nades washin' . 
And how long has this been going on , Katy ? she finally asked . 
Well , I have had two good months of it , said Katy that is , it started two months ago . 
They give me jist about the same falin' . 
Between the two I would trust the cat a dale further with my bird than I would the Jap . 
Have you ever unlocked the garage for them , Katy ? asked Linda . 
I only go there when I nade something about me work . 
Well , Katy , said Linda , let me tell you this the next time you go there for anything take a good look for Japs before you open the door . 
Get what you want and get out as quickly as possible and be sure , Katy , desperately sure , that you lock the door securely when you leave . 
Katy set her hands on her hips , flared her elbows , and lifted her chin . 
What's any of them little haythen been coin' to scare ye , missy ? she demanded belligerently . 
Don't you think I'm afraid of them ! Comes any of them around me and I'll take my mopstick over the heads of them . 
And you'll break a perfectly good mopstick and not hurt the Jap when you do it , said Linda . 
There's an undercurrent of something deep and subtle going on in this country right now , Katy . 
When the Negroes learn what there is to know , then the day of retribution will be at hand . 
And this is not croaking , Katy . 
It is the truest gospel that was ever preached . 
Keep your eyes wide open for Japs . 
Keep your doors locked , and if you see one prowling around the garage and don't know what he is after , go to the telephone and call the police . 
Linda climbed the stairs to her workroom , plumped down at the table , set her chin in her palms , and lost herself in thought . 
For half an hour she sat immovable , staring at her caricature of Eileen through narrowed lids . 
Then she opened the typewriter , inserted a sheet and wrote MY DEAR Mr. SNOW I am writing as the most intimate woman friend of Marian Thorne . 
Today I have found the answer , which I am forwarding to you , knowing that you will understand exactly what should be done . 
Enclosed you will find one of the first rough s etches Marian made of her plans . 
In some mysterious manner it was lost on a night when your prize winning architect had dinner at our house where Miss Thorne was also a guest . 
Before retiring she showed to me and explained the plans with which she hoped to win your competition . 
In the morning I packed her suitcase and handed it to the porter of her train . 
When she arrived at San Francisco she found that the enclosed sheet was missing . 
In so doing I emptied all the pockets , and in gathering up their contents I found this lost sheet from Marian's plans . 
I think nothing more need be said on my part save that I understood the winning plan was to become the property of Nicholson and Snow . 
You probably have heard Marian speak of me , and from her you may obtain any information you might care to have concerning my responsibility . 
Very truly yours , LINDA STRONG . 
There was nothing in the coat now that could possibly have startled the girl or annoyed her . 
Whatever had been there that caused her extremely peculiar conduct she had carried away with her . 
Peter had settled convictions concerning Linda . 
Above all others , straight was the one adjective he probably would have applied to her . 
Whatever she had taken from Henry's pockets was something that concerned her . 
If she took anything , she had a right to take it of that Peter was unalterably certain . 
He remembered that a few days before she practically had admitted to him that Anderson had annoyed her , and a slow anger began to surge up in Peter's carefully regulated heart . 
It takes these youngsters to rush in and raise the devil where there's no necessity for anything to happen if just a modicum of common sense had been used , growled Peter . 
About the customary time for her to return from school Peter started on foot down the short cut between his home and the Strong residence . 
A long instant they studied each other . 
Am I intruding ? inquired Peter at last . 
Linda shook her head vigorously and gulped down a sob . 
No , Peter , she sobbed , I had come this far on my way to you when my courage gave out . 
Peter rearranged the immediate landscape and seated himself beside Linda . 
Now stop distressing yourself , he said authoritatively . 
You youngsters do take life so seriously . 
The only thing that could have happened to you worth your shedding a tear over can't possibly have happened so stop this waste of good material . 
Tears are very precious things , Linda . 
They ought to be the most unusual things in life . 
Were you coming to me about that matter that worried you the other evening ? Linda shook her head . 
No , she said , I have turned that matter over where it belongs . 
I have nothing further to do with it . 
I'll confess to you I took a paper from among those that fell from Henry Anderson's pocket . 
He had no right to have it . 
He couldn't possibly have come by it honorably or without knowing what it was . 
I took the liberty to put it where it belongs , or at least where it seemed to me that it belongs . 
Then something else has happened ? asked Peter . 
Something connected with the package of letters in your lap ? Linda nodded vigorously . 
Peter , I have done something perfectly awful , she confessed . 
I never in this world meant to do it . 
I wouldn't have done it for anything . 
I have got myself into the dreadfullest mess , and I don't know how to get out . 
When I couldn't stand it another minute I started right to you , Peter , just like I'd have started to my father if I'd had him to go to . 
I see , said Peter , deeply interested in the toe of his shoe . 
You depended on my age and worldly experience and my unconcealed devotion to your interests , which is exactly what you should do , my dear . 
Dry your eyes and tell me , and whatever it is I'll fix it all right and happily for you . 
I'll swear to do it if you want me to . 
Then Linda raised her eyes to his face . 
Oh , Peter , you dear ! she cried . 
Peter , I'll just kneel and kiss your hands if you can fix this for me . 
Peter set his jaws and continued his meditations on shoe leather . 
Make it snappy ! he said tersely . 
The sooner your troubles are out of your system the better you'll feel . 
Whose letters are those , and why are you crying over them ? Oh , Peter , quavered Linda , you know how I love Marian . 
You have seen her and I have told you over and over . 
Yes , said Peter soothingly , I know . 
I have told you how , after years of devotion to Marian , John Gilman let Eileen make a perfect rag of him and tie him into any kind of knot she chose . 
Peter , when Marian left here she had lost everything on earth but a little dab of money . 
She had lost a father who was fine enough to be my father's best friend . 
She had lost a mother who was fine enough to rear Marian to what she is . 
All the time I have thought that when she came back , YOU would want her . 
Peter , I fibbed when I said I was setting your brook for Louise Whiting . 
I don't know Louise Whiting . 
She is nothing to me . 
I was setting it for you and Marian . 
It was a WHITE head I saw among the iris marching down your creek bank , not a gold one , Peter . 
Peter licked his dry lips and found it impossible to look at Linda . 
Straight ahead with it , he said gravely . 
Get on with it , Linda . 
What was it you did ? I had a typewriter I could . 
I began writing her letters , the kind of letters that I thought would interest her and make her feel loved and appreciated . 
You didn't sign my name to them , did you , Linda ? asked Peter in a dry , breathless voice . 
No , Peter , said Linda , I did not do that , I did worse . 
Oh , I did a whole lot worse ! I don't understand , said Peter hoarsely . 
I wanted to make them fine . 
I wanted to make them brilliant . 
I wanted to make them interesting . 
And of course I could not do it by myself . 
I am nothing but a copycat . 
I just quoted a lot of things I had heard you say and I did worse than that , Peter . 
And oh , Peter , it's too ghastly I don't believe I can tell you . 
This is pretty serious business , Linda , said Peter gravely . 
Having gone this far you are in honor bound to finish . 
It would not be fair to leave me with half a truth . 
Don't talk like that , Linda , said Peter . 
If your friend is all you say she is , she is bound to understand . 
And as for me , I am not very likely to misjudge you . 
But be quick about it . 
Oh , Peter , I wasn't asleep a minute all last night , and for the first time I failed in my lessons today . 
And what is the culmination , Linda ? urged Peter . 
She liked the letters , Peter . 
They meant all I intended them to and they must have meant something I never could have imagined . 
He had offered her a beautiful home with everything that great wealth and culture and good taste could afford . 
I stole it from you . 
I copied it into those letters . 
I wasn't honest with her . 
I wasn't honest with you . 
I'll just have to take off front the top of the highest mountain or sink in the deepest place in the sea , Peter . 
I thought I was straight . 
I thought I was honorable I have made Donald believe that I was . 
If I have to tell him the truth about this he won't want to wear my flower any more . 
I shall know all the things that Marian has suffered , and a thousand times worse , because she was not to blame she had nothing with which to reproach herself . 
Peter put an arm across Linda's shoulders and drew her up to him . 
For a long , bitter moment he thought deeply , and then he said hoarsely Now calm down , Linda . 
You're making an extremely high mountain out of an extremely shallow gopher hole . 
You haven't done anything irreparable . 
I see the whole situation . 
You are sure your friend has finally refused this offer she has had on account of these letters you have written ? Suddenly Linda relaxed . 
She leaned her warm young body against Peter . 
She laid her tired head on his shoulder . 
She slipped the top letter of the packet in her lap from under its band , opened it , and held it before him . 
Peter read it very deliberately , then he nodded in acquiescence . 
It's all too evident , he said quietly , that you have taught her that there is a man in this world more to her liking than John Gilman ever has been . 
And Donald also ? asked Peter lightly . 
Donald of course , assented Linda . 
And then she lifted her tear spilling , wonderful eyes , wide open , to Peter's , and demanded But , oh Peter , I am so miserable I am almost dead . 
I have said you were a rock , and you are a rock . 
peter , can you get me out of this ? Sure , said Peter grimly . 
Merely a case of living up to your blue china , even if it happens to be in the form of hieroglyphics instead of baked pottery . 
Give me the letters , Linda . 
Give me a few days to study them . 
Exchange typewriters with me so I can have the same machine . 
Peter reached in his side pocket and pulled out a clean handkerchief . 
He shook it from its folds and dried her eyes . 
Then he took her by her shoulders and set her up straight . 
Now stop this nerve strain and this foolishness , he said tersely . 
You have done a very wonderful thing for me . 
Linda clapped her hands in delight . 
Oh , goody goody , Peter ! she cried . 
How joyous ! Can it be possible that my bungling is coming out right for Marian and right for you ? And right for you , Linda ? inquired Peter lightly . 
Sure , right for me , said Linda eagerly . 
Of course it's right for me when it's right for you and Marian . 
And since it's not my secret alone I don't think it would be quite honorable to tell Donald about it . 
What hurts Marian's heart or heals it is none of his business . 
He doesn't even know her . 
All right then , Linda , said Peter , rising , give me the letters and bring me the machine and the paper . 
Then God help me , said Peter , for whatever happens , your trust in me shall not be betrayed , Linda . 
She stepped from it at ten o'clock in the morning , and by the streetcar route made her way to Lilac Valley . 
When she arrived she realized that she could not see Linda before , possibly , three in the afternoon . 
She entered a restaurant , had a small lunch box packed , and leaving her dressing case , she set off down the valley toward the mountains . 
She had need of their strength , their quiet and their healing . 
To the one particular spot where she had found comfort in Lilac Valley her feet led her . 
By paths of her own , much overgrown for want of recent usage , she passed through the cultivated fields , left the roadway , and began to climb . 
When she reached the stream flowing down the rugged hillside , she stopped to rest for a while , and her mind was in a tumult . 
And the feeling concerning which she had written Linda had taken possession of her . 
Wealth did not matter position did not matter . 
Losing the love of a good man did not matter But the mind and the heart and the personality behind the letters she had been receiving did matter . 
She must merely live and do the best she could , until the writer of those letters chose to disclose himself and say what purpose he had in mind when he wrote them . 
As she neared the location strange sounds began to reach her , voices of men , clanging of hammers , the rip of saws . 
A look of deep consternation overspread her face . 
She listened an instant and then began to run . 
For a minute Marian was physically ill . 
Her heart hurt until her hand crept to her side in an effort to soothe it . 
Before she asked the question of a man coming to the spring with a pail in his hand , she knew the answer . 
It was Peter Morrison's house . 
Marian sprang across the brook , climbed to the temporary roadway , and walked down in front of the building . 
She stood looking at it intently . 
It was in a rough stage , but much disguise is needed to prevent a mother from knowing her own child . 
Marian's dark eyes began to widen and to blaze . 
She walked up to the front of the house and found that rough flooring had been laid so that she could go over the first floor . 
When she had done this she left the back door a deeply indignant woman . 
What I want to know is how such a wrong may be righted , and what Peter Morrison has to do with it . 
She walked over and picked up the packet . 
As she had known the instant she saw them , they were her letters . 
She stood an instant holding them in her hand , a dazed expression on her face . 
Mechanically she reached out and laid her hands on the closed typewriter to steady herself . 
Something about it appealed to her as familiar . 
She looked at it closely , then she lifted the cover and examined the machine . 
Until his house was completed and his belongings arrived , Peter undoubtedly had borrowed it . 
Suddenly a wild desire to escape swept over Marian . 
Her first thought was of her feelings . 
She was angry , and justly so . 
In her heart she had begun to feel that the letters she was receiving were from Peter Morrison . 
She tried to replace the package of letters exactly as she had found them . 
On tiptoe she slipped back to the door and looked searchingly down the road , around , and as far as possible through the house . 
out regard for her traveling suit or her beautifully shod feet , Marian fled from her location . 
Then she tried to think in a calm , dispassionate , and reasonable manner , but she found it a most difficult process . 
Her mind was not well ordered , neither was it at her command . 
It whirled and shot off at unexpected tangents and danced as irresponsibly as a grasshopper from one place to another . 
The flying leaps it took ranged from San Francisco to Lilac Valley , from her location upon which Peter Morrison was building her house , to Linda . 
Even John Gilman obtruded himself once more . 
At one minute she was experiencing a raging indignation against Henry Anderson . 
How had he secured her plan ? At another she was trying to figure dispassionately what connection Peter Morrison could have had with the building of his house upon her plan . 
Every time Peter came into the equation her heart arose in his defense . 
In some way his share in the proceeding was all right . 
He had cared for her and he had done what he thought would please her . 
Therefore she must be pleased , although forced to admit to herself that she would have been infinitely more pleased to have built her own house in her own way . 
She was hungry to see Linda . 
She was very glad when her train came and she was started on her way northward . 
After that Marian's thought was confused to the point of exasperation . 
Linda's appearance was that of a person so astonished that Katy sidled up to her giving strong evidence of being ready to bristle . 
Ye know , lambie , she said with elaborate indifference , ye aren't havin' to see anybody ye don't want to . 
If it's somebody intrudin' himself on ye , just say the word and I'll fire him higher than Guilderoy's kite I'll be firin' him . 
No , I must see him , Katy , said Linda quietly . 
And have something specially nice for dinner . 
Very likely I'll take him to see Peter Morrison's house and possibly I'll ask him and Peter to dinner . 
He is a San Francisco architect from the firm where Marian takes her lessons , and it's business about Peter's house . 
I was surprised , that's all . 
Then Linda turned and laid a hand on each of Katy's hairy red arms . 
Katherine O'Donovan , old dear , she said , if we do come back for dinner , concentrate on Mr. Snow and study him . 
Scrutinize , Katy ! It's a bully word . 
To add one more to our long lists of secrets , here's another . 
He's the man I told you about who has asked Marian to marry him , and Marian has refused him probably because she prefers somebody nearer home . 
Then Linda felt the tensing of every muscle in Katy's body . 
She saw the lift of her head , the incredulous , resentful look in her eyes . 
There was frank hostility in her tone . 
Well , who is there nearer home that Marian knows ? she demanded belligerently . 
Well , now , who would there be ? retorted Linda . 
Ye ain't manin' John Gilman ? asked Katy . 
No , said Linda , I am not meaning John Gilman . 
You should know Marian well enough to know that . 
Well , ye ought to know yourself well enough to know that they ain't anybody else around these diggin's that Marian Thorne's going to get , said Katy . 
I imagine Marian will get pretty much whom she wants , said Linda laughingly . 
In your heart , Katy , you know that Marian need not have lost John Gilman if she had not deliberately let him go . 
If she had been willing to meet Eileen on her own ground and to play the game with her , it wouldn't have happened . 
Marian has more brains in a minute than Eileen has in a month . 
When Linda drew back the portiere and stepped into the living room Eugene Snow rose to meet her . 
What either of them expected it might be difficult to explain . 
Knowing so little of each other , it is very possible that they had no visualizations . 
What Snow saw was what everyone saw who looked at Linda a girl arrestingly unusual . 
With Linda lay the advantage by far , since she had Marian's letters for a background . 
What she saw was a tall man , slender , and about him there was to Linda a strong appeal . 
As she looked into his eyes , she could feel the double hurt that Fate had dealt him . 
She thought she could fathom the fineness in his nature that had led him to made home building his chosen occupation . 
With only one look deep into his eyes she was on his side . 
She stretched out both her hands and advanced . 
Now isn't this the finest thing of you ? she said . 
I am so glad that you came . 
I'll tell you word for word what happened here . 
That will be fine , he said . 
Which is your favorite chair ? You know , she said , that is a joke . 
I am so unfamiliar with this room that I haven't any favorite chair . 
I'll have to take the nearest , like Thoreau selected his piece of chicken . 
Then for a few minutes Linda talked frankly . 
She answered Eugene Snow's every question unhesitatingly and comprehensively . 
The one thing I can't be explicit about , said Linda , is how many sheets were there in the morning . 
We had stayed awake so late talking , that we overslept . 
I packed Marian's bag while she dressed . 
I see , said Mr. Snow comprehendingly . 
Now let's experiment a little . 
Of course the window before that table was raised ? Yes , it was , said Linda , but every window in the house is screened . 
And what about the door opening into the hall ? Can you tell me whether it was closed or open ? It was open , said Linda . 
We left it slightly ajar to create a draft the night was warm . 
Is there anyone about the house , inquired Mr. Snow , who could tell us certainly whether that window was screened that night ? Of course , said Linda . 
Our housekeeper , Katherine O'Donovan , would know . 
When we go down we'll ask her . 
On their return to the living room , for the first time in her life Linda rang for Katy . 
She hesitated an instant before she did it . 
It would be establishing a relationship that never before had existed between them . 
She always had gone to Katy as she would have , gone to her mother . 
She would have gone to her now , but she wanted Katy to make her appearance and give her information without the possibility of previous discussion . 
Katy answered the bell almost at once . 
Linda went to her side and reached her arm across her shoulders . 
Put on your thinking cap , old dear , and try to answer accurately any question that Mr. Snow may wish to ask you . 
Katy looked expectantly at Eugene Snow . 
In the meantime , said Linda , I'll be excused and go bring round the Bear Cat . 
I have only one question to ask you , said Mr. Snow . 
She was taking the inventory she had been told to take . 
She was deciding , as instantly as Linda had done , that she liked this man . 
It had been out two days before the night Marian was here . 
Did Miss Linda know about it ? asked Snow . 
Not that I know of , said Katy . 
It was Miss Eileen that heard the screen ripped out and told me it was gone . 
She's the one who looked after the housekapin' and paid the bills . 
She knew all about it . 
Thank you , Katy , said Mr. Snow . 
I hope nothing of that kind will occur . 
A great wrong has been perpetrated , but we must find some way to right it without involving such extremely nice young women in the annoyance of legal proceedings . 
Katy folded her arms and raised her head . 
All her share of the blarney of Ireland began to roll from the mellow tip of her tongue . 
Now , the nice man ye are , to be seein' the beauty of them girls so quick , she said . 
The good Lord airly in the mornin' of creation thought them out when He was jist fresh from rist , and the material was none shopworn . 
They ain't ladies like 'em anywhere else in the whole of California , and belave me , a many rale ladies have I seen in my time . 
Ye can jist make up your mind that Miss Linda is the broth of the earth . 
She is her father's own child and she is like him as two pase in the pod . 
Eugene Snow looked at Katy intently . 
Such faith and trust and love were unusual . 
I might try to do that very thing , he said , but , you know , a wonderful woman is an animated jewel . 
You can't manufacture a setting and put her in and tighten the clasps without her consent . 
Then why don't you get it ? said Katy casually . 
But suppose , he said , that the particular jewel you're discussing prefers to select her own setting , and mine does not please her . 
Well , they's jist one thing , said Katy . 
Her heels left the floor involuntarily she arose on her tiptoes her shoulders came up , and her head lifted to a height it never had known before . 
They's jist one thing , she said . 
Ye watch him jist one minute when he looks at the young missus and he thinks nobody ain't observing him , and ye'll see what ye'll see . 
If ye want Marian , ye jist go on and take her . 
Now if you're a wise man , ye don't nade nothing further said on the subject . 
Eugene Snow thought intently for a few moments . 
His vision centered on Katherine O'Donovan's face . 
You're absolutely sure of this ? he said at last . 
Jist as sure as the sun's sure , and the mountains , and the seaSons come and go , said Katy with finality . 
Watch him and you'll see it stickin' out all over him . 
I have picked him for me boss , and it's jist adorin' that man crature I am . 
What about Miss Linda ? inquired Snow . 
But in the manetime it's my job to stand guard as I'm standin' right now . 
I'm tellin' ye frank and fair . 
Ye go on and take Marian Thorne because ye ought to have her . 
If she's got any idea in her head that she's goin' to have Pater Morrison , she'll have to get it out . 
Eugene Snow held out his hand and started to the front door in answer to the growl of the Bear Cat . 
He seemed to have been keyed up and toned up . 
There was a different expression on his face . 
There was buoyancy in his step . 
There was a visible determination in his eye . 
He took the seat beside her and Linda started the car . 
She looked at him interrogatively . 
Can you connect a heavy wind with the date of the lost plan ? he inquired . 
There was a crack a jack a few days before , said Linda . 
It blew over some trees in the lot next to us . 
Exactly , said Snow and it plucked a screen from your guest room window . 
Katy thinks that the cheque to the carpenter and the cost of the repairs will be in your sister's account books . 
Um hm , nodded Linda . 
Well , that simplifies matters , because Peter Morrison is going to tell you about a trip Henry Anderson made around our house the morning Marian left . 
I think that is about all we need to know , said Mr. Snow conclusively . 
Most certainly , said Mr. Snow . 
We should have that much to show for our share of the transaction . 
It's a queer thing , said Linda . 
You would have to know me a long time , and perhaps know under what conditions I have been reared in order to understand a feeling that I frequently have concerning people . 
I was much interested in preserving the integrity of my neck . 
I am telling you all this that you may see why I might have been excused for not having been minutely observant of my surroundings when I landed . 
But what I did observe was a chilly , caterpillary sensation chasing up my spine the instant I met the eyes of Henry Anderson . 
In that instant I said to myself that I would not trust him , that I did not like him . 
And what about his companion ? asked Eugene Snow lightly . 
Oh , Peter ? said Linda . 
There was a caress in her pronunciation of the name . 
Why , Peter is a rock . 
The instant I deposited my Cotyledon in a safe place I would have put my hand in Peter Morrison's and started around the world if he had asked me to go . 
There is only one Peter . 
You will recognize that the instant you meet him . 
I am altogether willing to take your word for it , said Mr. Snow . 
And there is one thing about this disagreeable business , said Linda . 
It was not Peter's coat that had the plan in it . 
He knew nothing about it . 
He built his garage first and he is living in it because he so loves this house of his that he has to be present to watch it grow in minutes detail . 
Once on a time I saw a great wizard walking along the sidewalk , and he looked exactly like any man . 
He might have been you so far as anything different from other men in his appearance w as concerned . 
Linda cut down the Bear Cat to its slowest speed . 
What is on my mind is this , she said . 
I don't think Peter could quite afford the amount of ground he has bought , and the house he is building . 
I think possibly he is tying himself up in obligations . 
It may take him two or three years to come even on it but it is a prepossession with him . 
You very decent kid , you , he said appreciatively . 
I certainly am enough of a wizard to save your Peter man any disillusionment concerning his dream house . 
Oh , but he is not my Peter man , said Linda . 
We are only the best friends in the world . 
Really and truly , if you can keep a secret , he's Marian's . 
Is he ? asked Mr. Snow interestedly . 
I think there must be some slight complication that will have to be cleared up . 
Linda's heart gave a great jump of consternation . 
Indeed no , she said emphatically . 
All right then , agreed Mr. Snow . 
Linda put the Bear Cat at the mountain , crept around the road , skirted the boulders , and stopped halfway to the garage . 
Then she stepped from the car and hallooed for Peter . 
Peter came hurrying from the garage , and Eugene Snow was swift in his mental inventory . 
It coincided exactly with Linda's . 
After that he began to act on Katy's hint , and in a very short time he had convinced himself that she was right . 
Eugene Snow stood very straight , his hands in his coat pockets , looking , Peter supposed , with interest at the arrangements of kitchen conveniences . 
His next terse sentence fairly staggered Peter . 
He looked him straight in the eye and inquired casually Chosen your dream woman to fit your house , Morrison ? Peter was too surprised to conceal his feelings . 
His jaws snapped together a belligerent look sprang into his eyes . 
I have had a good deal to do with houses , continued Mr. Snow . 
They are my life work . 
I find that invariably they are built for a woman . 
Almost always they are built from her plans , and for her pleasure . 
It's a new house , a unique house , a wonderful house you're evolving here . 
It must be truly a wonderful woman you're dreaming about while you build it . 
That was a nasty little trap . 
He had been addressed in such a frank and casual manner . 
His own brain shot off at queer tangents and led him constantly into unexpected places . 
Eugene Snow had seen for himself the thing that Katy had told him he would see if he looked for it . 
Suddenly he held out his hand . 
He did see Snow's point of view . 
He did realize his position . 
But what Mr. Snow knew of his affairs he could only guess . 
So he caught at the straw held out to him with both hands . 
I get you , he said tersely . 
It is not quite up to the mark of the manhood we like to think we possess to let our lives be engineered by a high school kid . 
Suppose we do just quietly and masterfully assert ourselves concerning our own affairs . 
Suppose we do , said Snow with finality . 
Whereupon they shook hands with a grip that whitened their knuckles . 
Peter would not allow Linda to drive him home at night , so he left her after the Bear Cat had been safely placed in the garage . 
As she stood on the walk beside him , strongly outlined in the moonlight , Peter studied Linda whimsically . 
Linda looked at him with widened eyes . 
KATY UNBURDENS HER MIND Why , what are you talking about , Peter ? Are you moonstruck ? she inquired solicitously . 
Donald's only a friend , you know . 
I love him because he is the nicest companion but there is nothing for you to be silly about . 
Then Peter began to realize the truth . 
There wasn't anything for him to be concerned about . 
She had not the slightest notion what love meant , even as she announced that she loved Donald . 
Peter's Release Eugene Snow returned to San Francisco enthusiastic about Linda , while he would scarcely have known how to express his appreciation of Katherine O'Donovan . 
He had been served a delicious dinner , deftly and quietly , such food as men particularly like but there had been no subservience . 
If Katherine O'Donovan had been waiting on her own table , serving her own friends she could not have managed with more pride . 
It was very evident that she loved service , that she loved the girl to whom she gave constant attention . 
He returned to San Francisco with a good deal of a See the conquering hero comes mental attitude . 
He went directly to his office , pausing on the way for a box of candy and a bunch of Parma violets . 
His first act on reaching the office was to send for Miss Thorne . 
Marian came almost immediately , a worried look in her eyes . 
She sat in the big , cushioned chair that was offered her , and smiled faintly when the box was laid on her lap , topped with the violets . 
She looked at Eugene Snow with an I wish you wouldn't expression on her face but he smiled at her reassuringly . 
Picked them up on the way from the station . 
I made a hasty trip to that precious Lilac Valley of yours , and I must say it pales your representation . 
It is a wonderfully lovely spot . 
Marian settled back in the chair . 
She picked up the violets and ran an experienced finger around the stems until she found the pin with which she fastened them at her waist . 
Then as they occupied themselves making selections from the candy box he looked smilingly at Marian . 
Her eyes noted the change in him . 
He was neither disappointed nor sad . 
Something had happened in Lilac Valley that had changed his perspective . 
Womanlike , she began probing . 
Glad you liked my valley , she said . 
We are told that blue is a wonderful aura to surround a person , and it's equally wonderful when it surrounds a whole valley . 
With the blue sky and the blue walls and a few true blue friends I have there , it's naturally a very dear spot to me . 
Yes , said Mr. Snow , I can see that it is . 
I ran down on a business matter . 
I have been deeply puzzled and much perturbed over this prize contest . 
I went to Lilac Valley because I had a letter from your friend , Miss Linda Strong . 
There was an enclosure in it . 
He drew from his pocket the folded sheet and handed it to Marian . 
Linda found it at last ! she cried . 
She turned a coat belonging to his architect that hung with some of his clothing in Peter Morrison's garage . 
She was shaking the nest of a field mouse from one of the side pockets . 
Naturally this emptied all the pockets , and in gathering up their contents she came across that plan , which she recognized . 
She thought it was right to take it and very wisely felt that it was man's business , so she sent it to me with her explanations . 
I went to Lilac Valley because I wanted to judge for myself exactly what kind of young person she was . 
I wanted to see her environment . 
I wanted to see the house that she felt sure was being built from these plans . 
I wanted to satisfy myself of the stability of what I had to work on before I mentioned the matter to you or Henry Anderson . 
Marian sat holding the plan , listening absorbedly to what he was saying . 
It's an ugly business , he said , so ugly that there is no question whatever but that it can be settled very quietly and without any annoyance to you . 
I shall have to take the matter up with the board , but I have the details so worked out that I shall have no difficulty in arranging matters as I think best . 
There is no question whatever , Marian , but Anderson found that sketch on the west side of the Strong residence . 
In opening your door to establish a draft before you went to bed you started one that carried your top drawing through the window . 
Waiting for Miss Strong the next morning , in making a circuit of the grounds Anderson found it and appropriated it to most excellent advantage . 
Miss Linda tells me that your study of architecture was discussed at the dinner table that night . 
He could not have helped realizing that any sheet of plans he found there must have been yours . 
The rule is unbreakable that the plans must be original , must be unused , must be our sole property , if they take the prize . 
Marian was leaning forward , her eyes wide with interest , her breast agitated . 
Eugene Snow reached across and helped himself to another piece of candy from the box on her knee . 
He looked at her speculatively and spoke quietly as if the matter were of no great importance . 
I would be willing to venture quite a sum that when I finish with the youngster he will see the beauty of going straight hereafter and the desirability of a change of atmosphere . 
I hate to make the matter public , not only on account of involving you and your friends in such disagreeable business , but I am sorry for him . 
Would you be satisfied if I handled the matter quietly and in my own way ? Could you wait a few weeks for justice ? Marian drew a deep breath . 
Of course , she said , it would be wonderful if you could do that . 
But what about Peter Morrison ? How much did he know concerning the plans , and what does he know about this ? Nothing , said Mr. Snow . 
That most unusual young friend of yours made me see the light very clearly concerning Peter Morrison . 
He so loves the spot that he is living on it to watch that house in minutest detail . 
Miss Linda was fairly eloquent in the plea she made on his behalf . 
He strikes me as a very unusual person , and she appealed to me in the same way . 
Do you mean , asked Marian , that you think there is anything more than casual friendship between Linda and Peter Morrison ? Not on her part , answered Eugene Snow . 
Anybody can see that she is a child deeply engrossed in all sorts of affairs uncommon for a girl of her age and position . 
Her nice perceptions , her wonderful loyalty to her friends , her loving thought for them , are manifest in everything she says or does . 
If she ever makes any mistakes they will be from the head , not from the heart . 
But for the other end of the equation I could speak authoritatively . 
Katy pointed out to me the fact that if I would watch Peter Morrison in Miss Linda's presence , I should see that he adored her . 
I did watch , and I did see that very thing . 
When I taxed him about building a dream house for a dream woman , his eyes crossed a plateau , leaped a brook , and started up the side of a mountain . 
They did not rest until they had found Linda . 
Marian sat so still that it seemed as if she were not even breathing . 
Exactly what he had done he had no means of knowing . 
If he had known and had talked intentionally he could not have made clearer to Marian the thing which for months had puzzled her . 
She heard these things and dimly comprehended them but underneath , her brain was seizing upon one fact after another . 
And then in a panic she must have gone to Peter Morrison and explained the situation and Peter must have agreed to take over the correspondence . 
One by one things that had puzzled her about the letters and about the whole affair began to grow clear . 
She even saw how Linda , having friendly association with no man save Peter , would naturally use him for a model . 
The trouble was that , with her gift of penetration and insight and her facility with her pen , she had overdone the matter . 
She had not imitated Peter she had BEEN Peter . 
She went home , locked the door , and one after another she read the letters that had piqued , amused , comforted , and finally intrigued her . 
It goes to prove , she said at last , how hungry the human heart is for love and sympathy . 
What I have to do is to find some way out of the situation that will relieve Linda's anxiety and at least partially save my face . 
I shall have to take a few days to work it out . 
Luckily I haven't answered my last letter . 
When I find out what I really want to say then I will be very careful how I say it . 
While she thought , both Linda and Peter were doing much thinking on the same subject . 
Linda's heart was full of gratitude to Peter for helping her out of her very disagreeable situation . 
Peter had not yet opened the packet of letters lying on his table He had a sickening distaste for the whole transaction . 
He had thought that he would wait until he received the first letter he was to answer . 
If it gave him sufficient foundation in itself for the answer , he would not be forced to search further . 
He had smoked many pipes on this decision . 
I am reasonably certain that I never shall have a letter to answer . 
In a few days probably I shall be able to turn back that packet to Linda without having opened it . 
She had decided that it was time to write on the subject of Indian confections . 
Her first spare minute she and Katy must busy themselves working out the most delicious cactus candy possible . 
Then they could try the mesquite candy . 
No doubt she could evolve a delicious gum from the mesquite and the incense plant . 
She knew she could from the willow milkweed and under the head of sweets an appetizing jelly from manzanita . 
There were delightful drinks too , from the manzanita and the chia . 
And better than either , the lemonade berry would serve this purpose . 
She had not experimented to an authoritative extent with the desert pickles . 
It would mean a long summer of interesting and absorbing I work for her and for Katy . 
Much of it could not be done until the I summer was far advanced and the seeds and the berries were I ripe . 
She could rely on Donald to help her search for the material . 
l With only herself and Katy in the family they could give much of their time to the work . 
Where Katy will rebel , said Linda to herself , is when it comes to gathering sufficient seeds and parching them to make these meal and mush dishes . 
She will call it 'fiddlin' business . 
She shall be propitiated with a new dress and a beautiful bonnet , and she shall go with me frequently to the fields . 
The old dear loves to ride . 
First thing I do I'll call at the bank again and have our affairs properly straightened and settled there in the light of the letter Daddy left me . 
Then I shall have money to get all the furniture and the rugs and things we truly need . 
I'll repaint the kitchen and get Katy some new cooking utensils to gladden her soul . 
And Saturday I must make my trip with Donald account for something worth while on the book . 
All these plans were feasible . 
What Linda had to do was to accomplish them , and this she proceeded to do in a swift and businesslike manner . 
She soon reached the place where the whole house with the exception of Eileen's suite had been gone over , freshened and refurnished to her liking . 
The guest room furniture had been moved to her rejuvenated room . 
All right , said Linda . 
And what am I to do with the stuff ? inquired Katy . 
Katy , my dear , said Linda with a dry laugh , you'll think I am foolish , but I have the queerest feeling concerning those things . 
I can't feel that Eileen has done with them I can't feel that she will never want them again I can't feel that they should go to some second hand basement . 
Clean the rooms and I will order Marian's things sent . 
Marian answered the letter immediately . 
She said that she was planning to come very soon to test that welcome . 
She longed for the quiet of the valley , for its cool , clean , wild air . 
She was very tired she needed rest . 
She thought she would love the new home they were offering her . 
Then came two amazing paragraphs . 
The other day Dana and I went into one of the big cafes in the city to treat ourselves to a taste of the entertainment with which the people of wealth regale themselves . 
I don't think Eileen wanted to introduce us , and yet she acted like a person ravenous for news of her home and friends . 
She did introduce us , and immediately her ponderous uncle took possession of us . 
It seems that the man is a brother of Eileen's mother . 
Linda , he is big and gross , he is everything that a man of nice perceptions would not be , but he does love Eileen . 
He is trying conscientiously to please her . 
His wife is the kind of person who would marry that kind of man and think everything he said and did was right . 
And the suitor , my dear , was the kind of man who could endure that kind of people . 
Eileen was almost , if not quite , the loveliest thing I ever have seen . 
She was plain she was simple but it was the costly simplicity of extravagance . 
Ye gods ! but she had pearls of the size she had always wanted . 
We were simply forced to lunch with them . 
We could only nibble at the too rich , too highly seasoned food set before us . 
And I noticed that Eileen nibbled also . 
She could not suppress them she could not conceal them . 
There was nothing on earth she could do but sit quietly and endure . 
They delivered us at our respective offices , leaving both of us dates on which to visit them , but neither of us intends to call on them . 
Eileen's face was a tragedy when her uncle insisted on making the arrangements . 
I can at least spare her that . 
But , Linda dear , I want you always to know that I appreciate the spirit in which you began this thing . 
I think , dear friend of mine , that I have had my share of dark days . 
I think there is very beautiful sunlight ahead for me . 
And by and by I hope to come into happiness that maybe is even more than my share . 
I am coming to see you soon and then I will tell you all about it . 
There was more of the letter , but at that point Linda made one headlong rush for the Bear Cat . 
She took the curve on two wheels and almost ran into the mountain face behind the garage before she could slow down . 
Then she set the Cat screaming wildly for Peter . 
As he came up to the car she leaned toward him , shaking with excitement . 
Peter , she cried , have you opened that packet of letters yet ? No , said Peter , I have not . 
Then give them to me quickly , Peter , said Linda . 
Peter rushed into the garage and brought out the packet . 
Linda caught it in both hands and dropped it in her lap . 
Well , thank God , she said devoutly . 
And , Peter , the joke's on me . 
Marian knew I was writing those letters all the time and she just pretended that she cared for them to make the game interesting for me . 
Linda's face was a small panorama of conflicting emotions as she appealed to Peter . 
Peter , she said in a quivering voice , you can testify that she stopped me properly , can't you , Peter ? Peter tried to smile . 
He was older than Linda , and he was thinking swiftly , intently . 
Did you really mean that , Linda ? Linda relaxed suddenly . 
She sank back into the deeply padded seat of the Bear Cat . 
A look of fright and entreaty swept into her dark eyes . 
Yes , Peter , I did mean it , she said with finality . 
I couldn't have lived if I had hurt Marian irreparably . 
She has been hurt so much already . 
And , Peter , it was awfully nice of you to wait about reading these letters . 
Even if she only did it for a joke , I think Marian would rather that you had not read them . 
Now I'll go back home and begin to work in earnest on the head piece of 'How to Grow Good Citizens . 
And I quite agree with you , Peter , that the oath of allegiance , citizenship , and the title to a piece of real estate are the prime requisites . 
Of course you will , said Peter but don't worry about it , dear don't lose sleep . 
Give time for a little more flesh to grow on your bones . 
And don't forget that while you're helping Donald to keep at the head of his classes it's your first job to keep at the head of your own . 
Thank you , said Linda . 
How is the dream coming ? Beautifully , said Peter . 
One of these days you're going to come rushing around the boulders and down the side of the building to find all this debris cleared away and the place for a lawn leveled . 
Linda looked at Peter while a queer , reflective light gathered in her eyes . 
At last she said soberly Well , I don't know , Peter , that you should make them so very personal to me as all that . 
Why not ? asked Peter casually . 
Since there is no one else , why not ? Linda released the clutch and started the car . 
She backed in front of the garage and turned . 
She was still thinking deeply as she stopped . 
Once again she extended a hand to Peter . 
Thank you a thousand times for not reading these letters , Peter , she said . 
I can't express how awfully fine I think it is of you . 
And if it's all right with you , perhaps there's not any real reason why you should not run that brook and drive that road the way I think they should go . 
Somebody is going to design them . 
And then he did a thing that he had done once or twice before . 
He bent back Linda's fingers and left another kiss in the palm of her hand , and then he closed her fingers very tightly over it . 
It was a day upon which she had planned to gather greens , vegetables , and roots , and prepare a dinner wholly from the wild . 
She was fairly sure exactly where in nature she would find the materials she wanted , but she knew that the search would be long and tiring . 
It would be jolly to have Katy to help her prepare the lunch . 
It would please Katy immensely to be taken and the original things she said in her quaint Irish brogue greatly amused Donald . 
The arrangement had been understood among them for some time , so they all started on their journey filled with happy expectations . 
They closed the house and the garage carefully . 
Linda looked over the equipment of the Bear Cat minutely making sure that her field axe , saw , knives , and her field glasses were in place . 
Because more food than usual was to be prepared in the kitchen they took along a nest of cooking vessels and a broiler . 
They found Donald waiting before either of them were ready , and in great glee , with much laughing and many jests they rolled down the valley in the early morning . 
They drove to the kitchen , spread their blankets , set up their table , and arranged the small circular opening for their day's occupancy . 
While Katy and Linda were busy with these affairs Donald took the axe and collected a big heap of wood . 
Just where the desert began to climb the mountain Linda had for a long time watched a big bed of amole . 
Donald used the shovel , she the hatchet , and soon they had brought to the surface such a quantity that Donald protested . 
But I have two uses for them today , explained Linda . 
They must serve for potatoes and they have to furnish our meat . 
Oh , I get you , said Donald . 
I have always been crazy to try that . 
So he began to dig again enthusiastically . 
Now I'll tell you what I think we had better do , said Linda . 
Presently they found a yucca head that Linda said was exactly right , a delicate pink , thicker than her wrist and two feet in length . 
With this and the amole they ran back to Katy . 
She knew how to prepare the amole for roasting . 
Linda gave her a few words of instruction concerning the yucca . 
Then from the interior of the Bear Cat she drew a tightly rolled section of wire window screening . 
Then , standing on one side with her field knife , Linda began to slice the remainder of the amole very thin and to throw it over the surface of the pool . 
On the other , Donald pounded the big , juicy bulbs to pulp and scattered it broadcast over the water . 
Here they gathered the tenderest heart shoots of the lupin until Linda said they had enough . 
Here , too , they filled a bucket from the heart of a big Bisnaga cactus as a basis for their drink . 
Among Katherine O'Donovan's cooking utensils there was a box of delicious cactus candy made from the preserved and sun dried heart meat of this same fruit which was to serve as their confection . 
On the way back they stopped at the bridge and gathered cress for their salad . 
When they returned to Katy she had five fine trout lying in the shade , and with more experienced eyes and a more skillful hand Linda in a few minutes doubled this number . 
Then they tore out the dam , rinsed the screen and spread it over a rock to dry . 
While Donald scaled the fish Linda put the greens to cook , prepared the salad and set the table . 
When you reach the place where your left hand feels empty without a piece of bread in it , just butter up another amole and try it . 
It will serve the same purpose as bread , and be much better for the inner man . 
If you would let me skin these fish , said Donald , I could do it much faster and make a better job of it . 
It's a great concession to clean them as we do . 
The Indians cooked them in the altogether and ate the meat from the bones . 
Oh my tummy ! said Donald . 
I always thought there was some dark secret about the Indians . 
Linda sat on a rock opposite him and clasped her hands around her knees . 
She looked at him meditatively . 
Did you ? she asked . 
Suppose you revise that opinion . 
Our North American Indians in their original state were as fine as any peoples that ever have been discovered the round of the globe . 
Immorality was unknown among them . 
Family ties were formed and they were binding They loved their children and reared them carefully . 
They were hardy and healthful . 
Until the introduction of whiskey and what we are pleased to term civilized methods of living , very few of them died save from war or old age . 
They were free they were happy . 
The moping , lazy , diseased creature that you find sleeping in the sun around the reservations is a product of our civilization . 
Nice commentary on civilization , isn't it ? For heaven's sake , Linda , said Donald , don't start any big brainstorming trains of thought today ! Grant me repose . 
I have overworked my brain for a few months past until I know only one thing for certain . 
All right then , me lad , this is the time for the big secret , said Linda . 
Donald sat thinking this over . 
He absently lifted an elbow and wiped the tiny scales from his face with his shirt sleeve . 
De but' , kid , she said , de gospel but' . 
You have the Jap going properly . 
He can't stop you now . 
You have fought your good fight , and you have practically won it . 
All you have to do is to carry on till the middle of June , and you're It . 
I wish Dad knew , said Donald in a low voice . 
The Judge does know , said Linda heartily . 
It wasn't fifteen minutes after I heard that till I had him on the telephone repeating it as fast as I could repeat . 
And I noticed that Louise and the Mater were sort of cheery and making a specialty of the only son and brother . 
Sure , brother , sure , said Linda . 
Hurry up and scrape those fish and let's scamper down the canyon merely for the joy of flying with wings on our feet . 
You're It , young man , just It ! Donald was sitting on a boulder . 
On another in front of him he was operating on the trout . 
His hands were soiled his hair was tousled he was fairly well decorated with fine scales . 
He looked at Linda appealingly . 
Am I 'It' with you , Linda ? he asked soberly . 
Sure you are , said Linda . 
You're the best friend I have . 
Will you write to me when I go to college this fall ? Why , you couldn't keep me from it , said Linda . 
I'll have so many things to tell you . 
And when your first vacation comes we'll make it a hummer . 
I know Dad won't let me come home for my holidays except for the midsummer ones , said Donald soberly . 
It would take most of the time there would be of the short holidays to travel back and forth . 
You will have to go very carefully about getting a start , said Linda , and you should be careful to find the right kind of friends at the very start . 
Christmas and Thanksgiving boxes can always be sent on time to reach you . 
That should keep you fairly busy , because most of the men you come up against will be beaters themselves . 
Yes , I know , said Donald . 
Oh , damn ! said Donald angrily . 
Do I have to keep up this top crust business all my days ? Linda looked at him with a queer smile on her lips . 
Not unless you want to , Donald , she said quietly not unless you think you would rather . 
Donald scraped a fish vigorously . 
Presently the tense lines around his eyes vanished . 
A faint red crept up his neck and settled on his left cheek bone . 
A confused grin slowly widened his naturally wide mouth . 
Then it's me for the top crust , he said conclusively . 
It was such a wonderful day it was such an unusual and delicious feast . 
Plump brook trout , fresh from icy water , delicately broiled over searing wood coals , are the finest of food . 
Through the meal to the point where Donald lay on his back at the far curve of the canyon wall , nibbling a piece of cactus candy , everything had been perfect . 
Nine months would be a long time to be gone , but Linda would wait for him , and she would write to him . 
He raised his head on his elbow and called across to her Say , Linda , how often will you write to me ? Linda answered promptly Every Saturday night . 
I'll tell you what has happened all the week . 
I'll tell you specially what a darned unprofitable day Saturday is when you're three thousand miles away . 
Bending over the canyon fireplace , her face red with heat and exertion , Katherine O'Donovan caught up her poker and beat up the fire until the ashes flew . 
Easy , Katy , easy , cautioned Linda . 
We may want to bury those coals and resurrect them to warm up what is left for supper . 
We'll do no such thing , said Katy promptly . 
What remains goes to feed the fish . 
Next time it's hungry ye are , we're goin' to hit it straight to Lilac Valley and fill ourselves with God's own bread and beefsteak and paraties . 
Don't ye think we're goin' to be atin' these haythen messes twice in one day . 
To herself she was saying The sooner I get you home to Pater Morrison , missy , the better I'll be satisfied . 
Once she stood erect , her hands at her belt , her elbows widespread , and with narrowed eyes watched the youngsters . 
Her lips were closed so tightly they wrinkled curiously as she turned back to the fireplace . 
Nayther one of them fool kids has come to yet , she said to herself , and a mighty good thing it is that they haven't . 
Linda was looking speculatively at Donald as he lay stretched on the Indian blanket at the base of the cliff . 
Every nerve in Linda tensed . 
She opened her mouth , but not a sound came . 
For a breathless second she was paralyzed . 
Then she shrieked wildly Donald , Donald , roll under the ledge ! Quick , quick ! She turned to Katy . 
Back , Katy , back ! she screamed . 
That boulder is loose it's coming down ! For months Donald Whiting had obeyed Linda implicitly and instantly . 
He had moved with almost invisible speed at her warning many times before . 
Sometimes it had been a venomous snake , sometimes a yucca bayonet , sometimes poison vines , again unsafe footing in each case instant obedience had been the rule . 
He did hot question why at her warning he instantly did as he was told . 
He , too , had noticed the falling pebble . 
With all the agility of which he was capable he rolled under the narrow projecting ledge above him . 
Katherine O'Donovan was a good soldier also . 
She whirled and ran to the roadway . 
She had barely reached it when , with a grinding crash , down came the huge boulder , carrying bushes , smaller rocks , sand , and debris with it . 
On account of its weight it fell straight , struck heavily , and buried itself in the earth exactly on the spot upon which Donald had been lying . 
Linda raised terrified eyes to the top of the wall . 
For one instant a dark object peered over it and then drew back . 
Without thought for herself Linda rushed to the boulder , and kneeling , tried to see back of it . 
Donald ! she cried , Donald , are you all right ? Guess I am , unless it hit one foot pretty hard . 
Can you get out ? she cried , beginning to tear with her hands at the stone and the bushes where she thought his head would be . 
I'm fast but I'm all right , he panted . 
Why the devil did that thing hang there for ages , and then come down on me today ? Yes , why did it ? gasped Linda . 
Donald , I must leave you a minute . 
I've got to know if I saw a head peer over just as that stone came down . 
Be careful what you do ! he cried after her . 
Linda sprang to her feet and rushed to the car . 
She caught out the field classes and threw the strap over her head as she raced to the far side of the fireplace where the walls were not so sheer . 
Linda was climbing so swiftly and so absorbedly that she reached the top before she heard a sound behind her . 
Then she turned with a white face , and her mouth dropped open as she saw Katy three fourths of the way up the cliff . 
We are about stalled , she panted . 
Find a good footing and stay where you are . 
I'm going to climb out on these bushes and see if I can get a view of the mountain side . 
At last she gave up . 
Must have gone the other way , she said to Katy . 
I'll crawl back to you . 
We'll go after help and get Donald out . 
As Donald says , there's no reason why it should hang there for centuries and fall on him today . 
Shut your eyes , old dear , and back up . 
We must go to Donald . 
I rather think it's on one of his feet from what he said . 
Let me take one more good look . 
At that minute from high on the mountain above them a shower of sand and pebbles came rattling down . 
Linda gave Katy one terrified look . 
My God ! she panted . 
He's coming down right above us ! Just how Linda recrossed the bushes and reached Katy she did not know . 
She motioned for her to make her way back as they had come . 
Katy planted her feet squarely upon the rock . 
Her lower jaw shot out her eyes were aflame . 
Then screened by the bushes , she could have reached out and touched Oka Sayye . 
As his feet found a solid resting place on the ledge on which Linda and Katy stood , and while he was still clinging to the bushes , Katherine O'Donovan advanced upon him . 
He had felt that his feet were firm , let go his hold , and turned , when he faced the infuriated Irishwoman . 
The Jap plunged backward among the bushes , the roots of which had supported Linda while she used the glasses . 
Then he fell , sliding among them , snatching wildly . 
Linda gripped the overhanging growth behind which she had been screened , and leaned forward . 
He has a hold he is coming back up , Katy ! she cried . 
Katy took another step forward . 
She looked over the cliff down an appalling depth of hundreds of feet . 
Deliberately she raised the axe , circled it round her head and brought it down upon that particular branch to which Oka Sayye was clinging . 
She cut it through , and the axe rang upon the stone wall behind it . 
As she swayed forward Linda reached out , gripped Katy and pulled her back . 
Get him ? she asked tersely , as if she were speaking of a rat or a rattlesnake . 
Katy sank back limply against the wall . 
Linda slowly turned her around , and as she faced the rock , Squeeze tight against it shut your eyes , and keep a stiff upper lip , she cautioned . 
I'm going to work around You I want to be ahead of you . 
She squeezed past Katy , secured the axe and hung it round her own neck . 
She cautioned Katy to keep her eyes shut and follow where she led her , then they started on their way back . 
Linda rushed to the boulder and knelt again , but she could get no response to her questions . 
Evidently Donald's foot was caught and he was unconscious from the pain . 
Squeezing as close as she could , she thrust her arm under the ledge until she could feel his head . 
Then she went to the other side , and there she could see that his right foot was pinned under the rock . 
She looked at Katy reassuringly , then she took off the axe and handed it to her . 
He's alive , she said . 
Can't kill a healthy youngster to have a crushed foot . 
You stand guard until I take the Bear Cat and bring help . 
It's not far to where I can find people . 
She ran on until she found a house with a telephone . 
She found time to urge , also , that before starting he set in motion any precautions he had taken for Donald's protection . 
She told him where she thought what remained of Oka Sayye could be found . 
And because Peter had many miles less distance to travel than the others she had summoned , he arrived first . 
He found Linda and Katy had burrowed under the stone until they had made an opening into which the broken foot might sink so that the pain of the pressure would be relieved . 
Donald was conscious and they had been passing water to him and encouraging him with the report that his father and a good surgeon would be there very soon . 
Katherine O'Donovan had crouched at one side of the boulder , supporting the hurt foot . 
She was breathing heavily and her usually red face was a ghastly green . 
Linda had helped her to resume the skirt of her dress . 
At the other side of the rock the girl was reaching to where she could touch Donald's head or reassuringly grip the hand that he could extend to her . 
Peter seized Linda's axe and began hewing at the earth and rock in order to help in the speedy removal of the huge boulder . 
Soon Judge Whiting , accompanied by Doctor Fleming , the city's greatest surgeon , came caring into the canyon and stopped on the roadway when he saw the party . 
The Judge sprang from the car , leaped the stream , and started toward them . 
In an effort to free his son before his arrival , all the men braced themselves against the face of the cliff and pushed with their combined strength . 
The boulder dropped forward into the trench they had dug for it enough to allow Peter to crowd his body between it and the cliff and lift Donald's head and shoulders . 
He was considerably dazed and shaken , cruelly hurt , but proved himself a game youngster of the right mettle . 
He raised himself to a sitting posture , managing a rather stiff lipped smile for his father and Linda . 
The surgeon instantly began cutting to reach the hurt foot , while Peter Morrison supported the boy's head and shoulders on one side , his father on the other . 
An exclamation of dismay broke from the surgeon's lips . 
He looked at Judge Whiting and nodded slightly . 
The men immediately picked up Donald and carried him to the ambulance . 
Katherine O'Donovan sat down suddenly and buried her face in the skirt of her dress . 
Linda laid a reassuring hand on her shoulder . 
Don't , Katy , she said . 
Keep up your nerve you're all right , old dear . 
The surgeon climbed into the ambulance and they started on an emergency run to the hospital . 
As the car turned and swept down the canyon , for no reason that she could have explained , Linda began to shake until her teeth clicked . 
Steady , Linda , he said quietly , steady . 
You know that he is all right . 
It will only be a question of a short confinement . 
Linda made a brave effort to control herself . 
She leaned against Peter and held out both her hands . 
I'm all right , she chattered . 
Judge Whiting came to them . 
I am getting away immediately , he said . 
I must reach Louise and Mother before they get word of this . 
Doctor Fleming will take care of Donald all right . 
What happened , Linda ? Can you tell me ? Linda opened her lips and tried to speak , but she was too breathless , too full of excitement , to be coherent . 
To her amazement Katherine O'Donovan scrambled to her feet , lifted her head and faced the Judge . 
She pointed to the fireplace . 
The thing dropped clear and straight and drove itself into the earth and stone below it , as ye see . 
Yes , said the Judge . 
She took the telescope and started climbin' , and I took the axe and I started climbin' after her . 
Katy broke down and emitted a weird Irish howl . 
Linda instantly braced herself , threw her arms around Katy , and drew her head to her shoulder . 
She looked at Judge Whiting and began to talk I can show you where she followed me , straight up the face of the canyon , almost , she said . 
And she never had tried to climb a canyon side for a yard , either , but she came up and over after me , like a cat . 
And up there on a small ledge Oka Sayye came down directly above us . 
I know him by sight as well as I do any of you . 
We heard the stones coming down before him , and we knew someone was going to be on us who was desperate enough to kill . 
When he touched our level and turned to follow the ledge we were on , I pushed him over . 
Katy shook off Linda's protecting arm and straightened suddenly . 
Why , ye domned little fool , ye ! she screamed . 
Katy folded her arms , lifted her chin higher than it ever had been before , and glared defiance at the Judge . 
Now go on , she said , and decide what ye'll do to me for it . 
The Judge reached over and took both Katherine O'Donovan's hands in a firm grip . 
You brave woman ! he said . 
If it lay in my power , I would give you the Carnegie Medal . 
I am no over feeder , said Katy proudly . 
I'm daily exercisin' me muscles enough to kape them young . 
The rheumatism I'll not have . 
And nayther will I have the house nor the income . 
I've saved me money I've an income of me own . 
Sure , said Katy proudly . 
Ye might be sendin' me a start of that , if it would plase Your Honor . 
Judge Whiting looked intently at Katherine O'Donovan . 
And then , as if they had been on the witness stand , he looked searchingly at Linda . 
But Linda was too perturbed , too accustomed to Katy's extravagant nonsense even to notice the purport of what she had said . 
Then the Judge turned his attention to Peter Morrison and realized that at least one of the parties to Katherine's proposed hearthstone had understood and heartily endorsed her proposal . 
I will have to be going . 
The boy and his mother will need me , he said . 
I will see all of you later . 
Then he sprang across the brook and sent his car roaring down the canyon after the ambulance . 
Once more Katy sank to the ground . 
Linda looked at her as she buried her face and began to wail . 
Peter , she said quietly , hunt our belongings and pack them in the Bear Cat the best you can . 
Excuse us for a few minutes . 
We must act this out of our systems . 
Gravely she sat down beside Katy , laid her head on her shoulder , and began to cry very nearly as energetically as Katy herself . 
And that was the one thing which was most effective in restoring Katy's nerves . 
Tears were such an unaccustomed thing with Linda that Katy controlled herself speedily so that she might be better able to serve the girl . 
In a few minutes Katy had reduced her emotions to a dry sniffle . 
Once she had risen to the physical effort of wiping her eyes , she regained calmness rapidly . 
The last time she applied the hem she looked at Peter , but addressed the Almighty in resigned tones There , Lord , I guess that will do . 
In a few minutes she was searching the kitchen , making sure that no knives , spoons , or cooking utensils were lost . 
Missing her support , Linda sat erect and endeavored to follow Katy's example . 
Her eyes met Peter's and when she saw that his shoulders were shaking , a dry , hysterical laugh possessed her . 
When I cry , said Katy tersely , I cry because I feel like it . 
It was merely time for us to howl after such fearful nerve strain , so we howled . 
Well , that's all right , said Peter . 
Now I'll tell you something . 
Peter , said Linda , there is nothing funny about this it's no tame for jest . 
But do men have nerves ? Would you really ? Of course I would , said Peter . 
No , you wouldn't , contradicted Linda . 
You just say that because you want to comfort us for having broken down , instead of trying to tease us as most men would . 
He would , too ! said Katy , starting to the Bear Cat with a load of utensils . 
Now come on let's go home and be gettin' craned up and ready for what's goin' to happen to us . 
Will they be jailin' us , belike , Miss Linda ? Linda looked at Peter questioningly . 
No , he said quietly . 
They stopped that in the grades several years ago , I am told . 
Before they could start back to Lilac Valley a car stopped in the canyon and a couple of men introducing themselves as having come from Judge Whiting interviewed Katy and Linda exhaustively . 
Then Linda pointed out to them an easier but much longer route by which they might reach the top of the canyon to examine the spot from which the boulder had fallen . 
She showed them where she and Katy had ascended , and told them where they would be likely to find Oka Sayye . 
When it came to a question of really starting , Linda looked with appealing eyes at Peter . 
Of course , said Peter . 
I'll take your car to the nearest farmhouse and leave it , then I'll take you and Katy in my car . 
Somewhere in waiting there had been confederates who had removed what remained of him . 
What he thought about Linda was evident . 
She is a mighty fine girl and I think Donald is very much interested in her . 
Yes , I think so , too , said Donald's mother . 
Interested but he has not even a case of first love . 
He is interested for the same reason you would be or I would be , because she is intellectually so stimulating . 
The best thing that can happen to Donald is just to let his infatuation for her die a natural death , with the quiet assistance of his family . 
The Judge's face reddened slightly . 
Well , I would like mighty well to have her in the family , he said . 
She's a corking fine girl . 
She would make a fine mother of fine men . 
It's the best chance the boy ever will have . 
And then Louise spoke up softly . 
Donald hasn't any chance , Dad , she said quietly , and he never did have . 
I have met Peter Morrison myself and I would be only too glad if I thought he was devoted to me . 
It was a curious thing that such occurrences as the death of Oka Sayye and the injury to Donald could take place and no one know about them . 
Yet the papers were silent on the subject and so were the courts . 
Linda and Katy were fully protected . 
The confederates of Oka Sayye for reasons of their own preferred to keep very quiet . 
By Monday Donald , with his foot in a plaster cast , was on a side veranda of his home with a table beside him strewn with books and papers . 
Linda went to visit him exactly as she would have gone to see Marian in like circumstances . 
She succeeded in making all of the Whiting family her very devoted friends . 
One evening , after he had been hobbling about for over a week , Linda and Peter called to spend the evening , and a very gay and enjoyable evening it was . 
And yet when it was over and they had gone away together Donald appeared worried and deeply thoughtful . 
When his mother came to his room to see if the foot was unduly painful or there was anything she could do to make him more comfortable , he looked at her belligerently . 
Mother , he said , I don't like Peter Morrison being so much with my girl . 
Mrs. Whiting stood very still . 
So she sat on the edge of the bed and began to talk quietly , plainly , reasonably . 
She tried to explain nature and human nature and what she thought the laws of probability were in the case . 
He said nothing until she had finished all she had to say , and then he announced triumphantly You're all wrong . 
That is what would happen if Linda were a girl like any of the other girls in her class , or like Louise . 
But she has promised that she would write to me every Saturday night and she has said that she thinks more of me than of any of the other boys . 
Donald dear , said Mrs. Whiting , you're not 'in love' with Linda yourself , and neither is she with you . 
By the time you are ready to marry and settle down in life , Linda in all probability will be married and be the mother of two or three babies . 
Yes , like fun she will , said Donald roughly . 
Have you asked her whether she loves you ? inquired Mrs. Whiting . 
Oh , that 'love' business , said Donald , it makes me tired ! Linda and I never did any mushing around . 
We had things of some importance to talk about and to do . 
A bit of pain in Mrs. Whiting's heart eased . 
It was difficult to keep her lips quiet and even . 
You haven't asked her to marry you , then ? she said soberly . 
Well , I can get around faster than that , said Donald belligerently . 
Of course you can , agreed his mother . 
I made that estimate fully a year too long . 
You know that hereafter all the girls in the world are going to be very much more Linda's kind of girls than they have been heretofore . 
And there is going to be more outdoor life , more nature study . 
There are going to be stronger bodies , better food , better cared for young people and every year educational advantages are going to be greater . 
Donald punched his pillow viciously . 
That's nice talk , he said , and it may be true talk . 
Of course you will , said his mother reassuringly and I'll go with you and we'll see to it that he attends strictly to his own affairs . 
Donald burst out laughing , exactly as his mother in her heart had hoped that he would . 
Mrs. Whiting put her arms around her boy , kissed him tenderly , and smoothed his hair , and then turned out the lights and slipped from the room . 
If his boy were irreparably hurt anywhere , it was in his foot . 
How the Wasp Built Her Nest The following weeks were very happy for Linda . 
She lacked words in which to express her joy that Marian was rapidly coming into happiness . 
When she turned in at the front walk and crossed the lawn she would have been willing to wager quite a sum that Katy had been crying . 
Why , old dear , said Linda , putting her arms around her , if anything has gone wrong with you I will certainly take to the warpath , instanter . 
I can't even imagine what could be troubling you . 
Nothing has come up about Oka Sayye ? Katy shook her head . 
I thought not , said Linda . 
Judge Whiting promised me that what use he made of that should be man's business and exploited wholly for the sake of California and her people . 
He said we shouldn't be involved . 
Yes , so would I , said Katy . 
I'm not worryin' meself about the little baste any more than I would if it had been a mad dog foaming up that cliff at ye . 
Then what is it ? asked Linda . 
I dunno what in the world you're going to think , said Katy I dunno what in the world you're going to do . 
Her face was so distressed that Linda's nimble brain flew to a conclusion . 
She tightened her arm across Katy's shoulder . 
By Jove , Katy ! she said breathlessly . 
Is Eileen in the house ? Katy nodded . 
Has she been to see John and made things right with him ? Katy nodded again . 
He's in there with her waitin' for ye , she said . 
It was a stunned Linda who slowly dropped her arm , stood erect , and lifted her head very high . 
You don't mean to tell me , she said , that you have been CRYING over her ? Katy held out both hands . 
Linda , she said , she always was such a pretty thing , and her ma didn't raise her to have the sense of a peewee . 
Ye know , Linda , that she didn't ever have a common decent chance . 
Ye couldn't jist honest say she had ever had a FAIR chance , now could ye ? No , said Linda conclusively' no , Katherine O'Donovan , you could not . 
But what are we up against ? Does she want to come back ? Does she want to stay here again ? I think she would like to , said Katy . 
You go in and see her for yourself , lambie , before ye come to any decision . 
The trouble has been that Eileen's only chance to be rich came to her through the wrong kind of people . 
Yes , said Linda , I'll tell you . 
Eileen's mother had a big streak of the same coarseness and the same vulgarity in HER nature , or she could not have reared Eileen as she did . 
She probably had been sent to school and had better advantages than the boy through a designing mother of her own . 
Her first husband must have been a man who greatly refined and educated her . 
We can't ever get away from the fact that Daddy believed in her and loved her . 
Yes , said Katy , but he was a fooled man . 
She wasn't what we thought she was . 
Many's the time I've stood injustice about the accounts and household management because I wouldn't be wakin' him up to what he was bound to for life . 
That doesn't help us , said Linda . 
I must go in and face them . 
Linda marveled at the power a woman could hold over a man that would force him to compromise with his intellect , his education and environment . 
Then she turned her attention to Eileen , and the shock she received was informing . 
She studied her an instant incredulously , then she went to her and held out her hand . 
How do you do ? she said as cordially as was possible to her . 
Her mind was working rapidly , yet she could not recall ever having seen a woman quite so beautiful as Eileen . 
She was very certain that the color on her cheeks was ebbing and rising with excitement it was no longer so deep as to be stationary . 
She was very certain that her eyes had not been darkened as to lids or waxed as to lashes . 
Her hair was beautifully dressed in sweeping waves with scarcely any artificial work upon it . 
Her dress was extremely tasteful and very expensive . 
There was no simper on her lips , nothing superficial . 
She was only a tired , homesick girl . 
As Linda looked at her she understood why Katy had cried over her . 
She felt tears beginning to rise in her own heart . 
She put both arms protectingly around Eileen . 
Why , you poor little thing , she said wonderingly , was it so damn' bad as all that ? Eileen stood straight . 
Then after a second she said Worse than anything you could imagine , Linda . 
Being rich with people who have grown rich by accident is a dreadful experience . 
So I have always imagined , said Linda . 
And then in her usual downright way she asked Why did you come , Eileen ? Is there anything you wanted of me ? Eileen hesitated . 
It was not in Linda's heart to be mean . 
Linda closed her arms around her and smiled over her head at John Gilman . 
Finish all of it before you stop , she advised . 
If that will do , you are perfectly welcome to it . 
I'd rather have Katy's room than be shamed and humiliated and hurt any further . 
Linda , I would almost like you to know my Aunt Callie , because you will never understand about her if you don't . 
Her favorite pastime was to tell everyone we met how much the things I wore cost her . 
Linda released Eileen with a slight shake . 
Cheer up ! she said . 
We'll all have a gorgeous time together . 
I haven't the slightest ambition to know more than that about your Aunt Callie . 
If my brain really had been acting properly I would never have dismantled your room . 
I would have known that you could not endure her , and that you would come home just as you should . 
It's all right , John , make yourself comfortable . 
I don't know what Katy has for dinner but she can always find enough for an extra couple . 
Come Eileen , I'll help you to settle . 
Where is your luggage ? I brought back , Linda , just what I have on , said Eileen . 
I will begin again where I left off . 
I am to go to see them a few days of every month . 
I can endure that when I know I have John and you to come back to . 
Katy , she said , I've been and gone and done it I have put the perfect lady in my old room . 
That will be a test of her sincerity even dainty and pretty as it is since it's been done over . 
If she is sincere enough to spend the summer getting ready to marry John Gilman why that is all right , old girl . 
We can stand it , can't we ? Yes , said Katy , it's one of them infernal nuisances but we can stand it . 
I'm thinkin' , from the looks of John Gilman and his manner of spakin' , that it ain't goin' to be but a very short time that he'll be waitin' . 
Katy , said Linda , isn't this the most entertaining world ? Doesn't it produce the most lightning like changes , and don't the most unexpected things happen ? Sort of dazes me . 
I had planned to take a little run with you and the Cat . 
Pin an apron on her in the morning , Katy , and hand her a dust cloth and tell her to industrialize . 
We will help her with her trousseau , but she SHALL help us with the work . 
Ye know , lambie , whispered Katy suddenly , this is a burnin' shame . 
The one thing I DIDN'T think about is that book of yours . 
What about it ? I scarcely know , said Linda it's difficult to say . 
Of course we can't carry out the plans we had made to work here , exactly as we had intended , with Eileen in the house preparing to be married . 
But she tells me that her uncle has made her a generous allowance , so probably it's environment and love she is needing much more than help . 
We'll wait awhile , Katy , and see whether we skid before we put on the chains . 
What about Marian ? inquired Katy . 
I don't know , said Linda thoughtfully . 
Come up to the garret I think Eileen has brought no more with her than she took away . 
We'll bring her trunk down , put it in her room and lay the keys on top . 
Don't begin by treating her as a visitor treat her as if she were truly my sister . 
Tell her what you want and how you want it , exactly as you tell me and as I tell you . 
If you see even a suspicion of any of the former objectionable tendencies popping up , let's check them quick and hard , Katy . 
For a week Linda watched Eileen closely . 
At the end of that time she was sincere in her conviction that Eileen had been severely chastened . 
When she came in contact with Peter Morrison or any other man they met she was not immediately artificial . 
She had learned to be as natural with men as with other women . 
There were no pretty postures , no softened vocal modulations , no childish nonsense on subjects upon which the average child of these days displays the knowledge of the past generation grandmother . 
Her conduct in the Strong home had been irreproachable . 
She had cared for her own room , quietly undertaken the duties of dusting and arranging the rooms and cutting and bringing in flowers . 
She had gone to the kitchen and wiped dishes and asked to be taught how to cook things of which John was particularly fond . 
She had been reasonable in the amount of time she had spent on her shopping , and had repeatedly gone to Linda and shown interest in her concerns . 
The result was that Linda at once displayed the same interest in anything pertaining to Eileen . 
One afternoon Linda came home unusually early . 
She called for Eileen , told her to tie on her sunshade and be ready for a short ride . 
Almost immediately she brought around the Bear Cat and when they were seated side by side headed it toward the canyon . 
She stopped at the usual resting place , and together she and Eileen walked down the light dappled road bed . 
She pointed out things to Eileen , telling her what they were , to what uses they could be put , while at the same time narrowly watching her . 
To her amazement she found that Eileen was interested , that she was noticing things for herself , asking what they were . 
She wanted to know the names of the singing birds . 
When they reached the bridge Linda climbed down the embankment to gather cress . 
So the protest became an explanation that it was rather late for cress the leaves toughened when it bloomed and were too peppery . 
The only way it could be used agreeably was to work along the edges and select the small tender shoots that had not yet matured to the flowering point . 
Friends of mine , said Linda lightly as she stepped from the car . 
Fond of cress salad with their dinner . 
They prepare it after the Jane Meredith recipe to which you called my attention , in Everybody's Home last winter . 
Eileen stepped from the car and followed . 
Linda led the way round the sidewalk to where her quick ear had located voices on the side lawn . 
She stopped at the kitchen door , handed in the cress , exchanged a few laughing words with the cook , and then presented herself at the door of the summerhouse . 
Inside , his books and papers spread over a worktable , sat Donald Whiting . 
One side of him his mother was busy darning his socks on the other his sister Louise was working with embroidery silk and small squares of gaily colored linen . 
Linda entered with exactly the same self possession that characterized her at home . 
With this explanation she introduced Eileen to Mrs. Whiting . 
Mary Louise immediately sprang up and recalled their meeting at Riverside . 
Donald remembered a meeting he did not mention . 
It was only a few minutes until Linda was seated beside Donald , interesting herself in his lessons . 
Eileen begged to be shown the pretty handkerchiefs that Mary Louise was making . 
An hour later Linda refused an invitation to dinner because Katy would be expecting them . 
When she arose to go , Eileen was carrying a small square of blue green linen . 
Carefully pinned to it was a patch of white with a spray of delicate flowers outlined upon it , and a skein of pink silk thread . 
She had been initiated into the thrillingly absorbing feminine accomplishment of making sport handkerchiefs . 
When they left Eileen was included naturally , casually , spontaneously , in their invitation to Linda to run in any time she would . 
So Linda realized that Mary Louise had been told about the trousseau . 
She knew , even lacking as she was in feminine sophistication , that there were two open roads to the heart of a woman . 
One is a wedding and the other is a baby . 
The lure of either is irresistible . 
As the Bear Cat glided back to Lilac Valley , Eileen sat silent . 
For ten years she had coveted the entree to the Whiting home perhaps more than any other in the city . 
Eileen was learning a new lesson each day some days many of them but none was more amazing more simple , or struck deeper into her awakened consciousness . 
As she gazed with far seeing eye on the blue walls of the valley Eileen was taking a mental inventory of her former self . 
One by one she was arraigning all the old tricks she had used in her trade of getting on in the world . 
One by one she was discarding them in favor of honesty , unaffectedness , and wholesome enjoyment . 
She had taken down the wasp picture and while she had not destroyed it she had turned the key of a very substantial lock upon it . 
She was hard at work when she heard steps on the stairs . 
When Eileen entered , Linda smiled quizzically and then broke into an unaffected ejaculation . 
Why , Eileen , you're perfectly topping . 
Eileen's face flamed with delight . 
She was a challenging little figure . 
None of them was accustomed to her when she represented anything more substantial than curls and ruffles . 
Linda reached for the telephone , called Gilman , and asked him if he could go to the beach for supper that evening . 
He immediately replied that he would . 
Then she called Peter Morrison and asked him the same question and when Peter answered affirmatively she told him to bring his car . 
Then she hastily put on her own field clothes and ran to the kitchen to fill the lunch box . 
To Katy's delight Linda told her there would be room for her and that she needed her . 
It was evening and the sun was moving slowly toward the horizon when they stopped the cars and went down on the white sands of Santa Monica Bay . 
Eileen had been complimented until she was in a glow of delight . 
She did not notice that in piling things out of the car for their beach supper Linda had handed her a shovel and the blackened iron legs of a broiler . 
Everyone was loaded promiscuously as they took up their march down to as near the water's edge as the sands were dry . 
Peter and John gathered driftwood . 
Linda improvised two cooking places , one behind a rock for herself , the other under the little outdoor stove for Katy . 
Eileen was instructed as to how to set up the beach table , spread the blankets beside it , and place the food upon it . 
While Katy made coffee and toasted biscuit Linda was busy introducing her party to brigand beefsteak upon four long steel skewers . 
The day had been warm . 
The light salt breeze from the sea was like a benediction . 
Friendly gulls gathered on the white sands around them . 
Out over the water big brown pelicans went slowly fanning homeward and white sea swallows drew wonderful pictures on the blue night sky with the tips of their wings . 
For a few minutes at the reddest point of its setting the sun painted a marvelous picture in a bank of white clouds . 
Then the colors mixed and faded and a long red bridge for a short time spanned the water , ending at their feet . 
The gulls hunted the last scrap thrown them and went home . 
The swallows sought their high cliffs . 
The insidiously alluring perfume of sand verbena rose like altar incense around them . 
Gilman spread a blanket , piled the beach fire higher , and sitting beside Eileen , he drew her head to his shoulder and put his arm around her . 
Possibly he could have been happier in a careless way if he had never suffered . 
Linda wandered down the beach until she reached the lighthouse rocks . 
She climbed on a high one and sat watching the sea as it sprayed just below . 
May I come up ? he asked . 
Surely , said Linda , this belongs to the Lord it isn't mine . 
So Peter climbed up and sat beside her . 
How did the landscape appeal to you when you left the campfire ? inquired Linda . 
I should think the night cry might very well be Eight o'clock and all's well , answered Peter . 
'God's in his heaven , all's right with the world ? Linda put it in the form of a question . 
It seems to be for John and Eileen , said Peter . 
It is for a number of people , said Linda . 
I had a letter from Marian today . 
He is a very astute individual . 
Marian fell deeply in love with his little girl , and of course those people found Marian charming , just as right minded people would find her . 
Peter , we are going to be invited to San Francisco to see them married very shortly . 
Are you glad or sorry ? I am very glad , said Peter heartily . 
Well , that's all right , said Linda . 
Of course you should have something to say about whose head finished that picture . 
I can't contract to do more than set the iris . 
The thing about this I dread is that Marian and Eugene are going to live in San Francisco , and I did so want her to make her home in Lilac Valley . 
That's too bad , said Peter sympathetically . 
I know how you appreciate her , how deeply you love her . 
Do you think the valley will ever be right for you without her , Linda ? It will have to be , said Linda . 
I've had to go on without Father , you know . 
If greater happiness seems to be in store for Marian in San Francisco , all I can do is to efface myself and say 'Amen . 
When the world is all right for Marian , it is about as near all right as it can be for me . 
And did you ever see much more sincerely and clearly contented people than John and Eileen are at the present minute ? Peter looked at Linda whimsically . 
He lowered his voice as if a sea urchin might hear and tattle . 
What did you do about the wasp , Linda ? he whispered . 
I delicately erased the stinger , fluffed up a ruffle , and put the sketch under lock and key . 
I should have started a fire with it , but couldn't quite bring myself to let it go , yet . 
Is she going to hold out ? asked Peter . 
She'll hold out or get her neck wrung , said Linda . 
I truly think she has been redeemed . 
She has been born again . 
She has a new heart and a new soul and a new impulse and a right conception of life . 
Why , Peter , she has even got a new body . 
Her face is not the same . 
She is much handsomer , said Peter . 
Isn't she ? cried Linda enthusiastically . 
And doesn't having a soul and doesn't thinking about essential things make the most remarkable difference in her ? It is worth going through a fiery furnace to come out new like that . 
I called her Abednego the other day , but she didn't know what I meant . 
Then they sat silent and watched the sea for a long time . 
By and by the night air grew chill . 
Peter slipped from the rock and went up the beach and came back with an Indian blanket . 
He put it very carefully around Linda's shoulders , and when he went to resume his seat beside her he found one of her arms stretching it with a blanket corner for him . 
Linda did not seem to notice . 
She sat quietly looking at the Pacific and thinking her own thoughts . 
The Lady of the Iris A few days later Linda and Peter went to San Francisco and helped celebrate the marriage of Marian and Eugene Snow . 
They left Marian in a home carefully designed to insure every comfort and convenience she ever had planned , furnished in accordance with her desires . 
Both Linda and Peter were charmed with little Deborah Snow she was a beautiful and an appealing child . 
It is difficult sometimes , when things are happening , to realize that they are for the best , but I really believe this thing has been for the level best . 
I think Marian is going to be a bigger woman in San Francisco than she ever would have been in Lilac Valley . 
With that thought I must reconcile myself . 
And what about John ? asked Peter . 
Is he going to be a bigger man with Eileen than he would have been with Marian ? No , said Linda , he is not . 
He didn't do right and he'll have penalty to pay . 
John will probably never know it , but he will have to do his own stimulating he will have to vision life for himself . 
He will have to find his high hill and climb it with Eileen riding securely on his shoulders . 
One thing I shall always be delighted about . 
With my own ears I heard the pronouncement Donald had the Jap beaten he was at the head of his class before Oka Sayye was eliminated . 
His only chance lay in getting rid of his rival . 
Donald can take the excellent record he has made in this race to start on this fall when he commences another battle against some other man's brain for top honors in his college . 
Will he start with the idea that he wants to be an honor man ? Linda laughed outright . 
I see , said Peter . 
Who's talking about 'homes' and 'spending the remainder of lives' ? Donald and I are school friends , and we are good companions . 
You're as bad as Eileen . 
She's always trying to suggest things that nobody else ever thought of , and now Katy's beginning it too . 
Sapheads , all ! said Peter . 
Well , allow me to congratulate you on having given Donald his spurs . 
I think it's a very fine thing for him to start to college with the honor idea in his head . 
What about your Saturday excursions ? They have died an unnatural death , said Linda . 
They won't hear of our going any more . 
I go every Saturday and take Donald for a very careful drive over a smooth road with the Bear Cat cursing our rate of speed all the way . 
All the fun's spoiled for all three of us . 
Think I would be any good as a substitute when it comes to field work ? inquired Peter casually . 
I have looked at your desert garden so much I would know a Cotyledon if I saw it . 
I believe I could learn . 
You wouldn't have time to bother , objected Linda . 
You're a man , with a man's business to transact in the world . 
You have to hustle and earn money to pay for the bridge and changing the brook . 
But I had money to pay for the brook and the bridge before I agreed to them , said Peter . 
Well , then , said Linda , you should begin to hunt old mahogany and rugs . 
I hadn't intended to , said Peter if they are to be old , I won't have to do more than to ship them . 
In storage in Virginia there are some very wonderful old mahogany and rosewood and rugs and bric a brac enough to furnish the house I am building . 
The stuff belonged to a little old aunt of mine who left it to me in her will , and it was with those things in mind that I began my house . 
The plans and finishing will fit that furniture beautifully . 
Why , you lucky individual ! said Linda . 
Nowhere in the world is there more beautiful furniture than in some of those old homes in Virginia . 
There are old Flemish and Dutch and British and Italian pieces that came into this country on early sailing vessels for the aristocrats . 
You don't mean that kind of stuff , do you , Peter ? That is precisely the kind of stuff I do mean , answered Peter . 
Why Peter , if you have furniture like that , cried Linda , then all you need is Mary Louise . 
Linda , said Peter soberly , you are trespassing on delicate ground again . 
You selected one wife for me and your plan didn't work . 
When that furniture arrives and is installed I'll set about inducing the lady of my dreams to come and occupy my dream house , in my own way . 
I never did give you that job . 
It was merely assumed on your part . 
So it was , said Linda . 
But you know I could set that iris and run that brook with more enthusiasm if I knew the lady who was to walk beside it . 
You do , said Peter . 
You know her better than anyone else , even better than I. Put that in your mental pipe and smoke it ! Saints preserve us ! cried Linda . 
I believe the man is planning to take Katy away from me . 
Not FROM you , said Peter , WITH you . 
Let me know about it before you do it , said Linda with a careless laugh . 
That's what I'm doing right now , said Peter . 
And I'm going to school , said Linda . 
Of course , said Peter , but that won't last forever . 
When the time came , Donald was ready to enter college comfortable and happy , willing to wait and see what life had in store for him as he lived it . 
She was not prepared for their wholehearted praise , for their delight and appreciation . 
Alone , they took counsel as to how they could best help her , and decided that to be married at once and take a long trip abroad would be the best way . 
That would leave Linda to work in quiet and with no interruption to distract her attention . 
They could make their home arrangements when they returned . 
When they had gone Linda worked persistently , but her book was not completed and the publishers were hurrying her when the fall term of school opened . 
Linda worked until she was confused . 
Then she piled the material in the Bear Cat and headed up Lilac Valley . 
As she came around the curve and turned from the public road she saw that for the first time she might cross her bridge it was waiting for her . 
The windows told another story . 
Peter's furniture had come and he had been placing it without telling her . 
She found the front door standing wide open , so she walked in . 
With her bundle on her arm she made her way to Peter's workroom . 
When he looked up and saw her standing in his door he sprang to his feet and came to meet her . 
Peter , she said , I've taken on more work than I can possibly finish on time , and I'm the lonesomest person in California today . 
I doubt that , said Peter gravely . 
If you are any lonesomer than I am you must prove it . 
I have proved it , said Linda quietly . 
If you had been as lonesome as I am you would have come to me . 
As it is , I have come to you . 
I see , said Peter rather breathlessly . 
What have you there , Linda ? Why did you come ? I came for two reasons , said Linda . 
I want to ask you about this stuff . 
Several times this summer you have heard talk about Jane Meredith and the Everybody's Home articles . 
Ever read any of them , Peter ? Yes , said Peter , I read all of them . 
Interested in home stuff these days myself . 
Well , said Linda , dumping her armload before Peter , there's the proof and there's the illustration and there's the cover design for a book to be made from that stuff . 
Peter , make your best boy and say 'pleased to meet you' to Jane Meredith . 
Peter secured both of Linda's hands and held them . 
First he looked at her , then he looked at the material she had piled down in front of him . 
Never again , said Peter in a small voice , will I credit myself with any deep discernment , any keen penetration . 
How I could have read that matter and looked at those pictures and not seen you in and through and over them is a thing I can't imagine . 
It's great , Linda , absolutely great ! Of course I will help you any way in the world I can . 
And what else was it you wanted ? You said two things . 
Oh , the other doesn't amount to much , said Linda . 
I only wanted the comfort of knowing whether , as soon as I graduate , I may take Katy and come home , Peter . 
From previous experience with Linda , Peter had learned that a girl reared by men is not as other women . 
He had supposed the other thing concerning which she had wanted to appeal to him was on par with her desire for sympathy and help concerning her book . 
At her question , with her eyes frankly meeting his , Peter for an instant felt lightheaded . 
He almost dodged , he was so sweepingly taken unawares . 
Linda was waiting and his brain was not working . 
He tried to smile , but he knew she would not recognize as natural the expression of that whirling moment . 
Of course , if you don't want us , Peter Peter found his voice promptly . 
Only his God knew how much he wanted Linda , but there were conditions that a man of Peter's soul fiber could not endure . 
More than life he wanted her , but he did not want her asleep . 
He did not want to risk her awakening to a spoiled life and disappointed hopes . 
Of course I remember , said Linda . 
Marian said that was the only real way And Marian is eminently correct . 
You will have to give me an ordinary lifetime , Linda , in which to try to make you understand exactly what this means to me . 
Perhaps I'll even have to invent new words in which to express myself . 
Oh , that's all right , said Linda . 
It means a lot to me too . 
I can't tell you how much I think of you . 
I have the very highest esteem for you , Peter . 
Esteem , yes , said Peter slowly . 
I only wanted the comfort of knowing that I was not utterly alone again , save for Katy . 
I'll stick to my book and to my fight for Senior honors all right . 
Peter was blinking his eyes and fighting to breathe evenly . 
When he could speak he said as smoothly as possible Of course , Linda . 
I'll do your proof for you and you may put all your time on class honors . 
It merely occurred to me to wonder whether you realized the full and ultimate significance of what we are saying exactly what it means to me and to you . 
Possibly not , Peter , said Linda , smiling on him with utter confidence . 
You are sanely and health fully and beautifully right . 
Now let's go and take Katy into our confidence , and then you shall show me your ideas before I begin work on your proof . 
And after this , instead of you coming to me I shall always come to you whenever you can spare a minute for me . 
Of course ! That would be best , she said . 
Peter , you are so satisfyingly satisfactory . 
Watch for gaps between pages . 
There may be some extraneous Is and Js which showed up when the scanner saw the bindery threads in the gutters . 
May need to add spaces after ! and ? if at the end of sentence that's not an internal quote . 
The caps are emphasis italics . 
