Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com JOHN FOX , JR . 
'' Jes tu'n up the fust crick beyond the bend thar , an' climb onto a stump , an' holler about ONCE , an' you'll see how the name come . 
Stranger , hit's HELL fer sartain ! Well , Rich Harp was thar from the head waters , an' Harve Hall toted Nance Osborn clean across the Cumberlan' . 
Fust one ud swing Nance , an' then t'other . 
Then they'd take a pull out'n the same bottle o' moonshine , an' fust one an' then t'other they'd swing her agin . 
In a minute , stranger , hit was like two wild cats in thar . 
Folks got 'em parted , though , but thar was no more a swingin' of Nance that night . 
Harve toted her back over the Cumberlan' , an' Rich's kinsfolks tuk him up Hell fer Sartain'' but Rich got loose , an' lit out lickety split fer Nance Osborn's . 
He knowed Harve lived too fer over Black Mountain to go home that night , an' he rid right across the river an' up to Nance's house , an' hollered fer Harve . 
Harve poked his head out'n the loft he knowed whut was wanted an' Harve says , Uh , come in hyeh an' go to bed . 
Stranger , them two fellers slept together plum frien'ly , an' they et together plum frien'ly next mornin' , an' they sa'ntered down to the grocery plum frien'ly . 
An' Rich says , Harve , '' says he , let's have a drink . 
'' All right , Rich , '' says Harve . 
An' Rich says , Harve , '' says he , you go out'n that door an' I'll go out'n this door . 
The gal nussed 'em both plum faithful . 
Rich didn't hev much to say , an' Harve didn't hev much to say . 
Nance was sorter quiet , an' Nance's mammy , ole Nance , jes grinned . 
Folks come in to ax atter 'em right peart . 
Abe Shivers come cl'ar 'cross the river powerful frien'ly an' ever' time Nance ud walk out to the fence with him . 
An' ole Nance jes snorted . 
Atter a while Rich says Harve , '' says he , who tol' you that I said that word agin you an' Nance ? '' Abe Shivers , '' says Harve . 
An' who tol' you , '' says Harve , that I said that word agin Nance an' YOU ? '' Abe Shivers , '' says Rich . 
An' both says , Well , damn me ! '' An' Rich tu'ned right over an' begun pullin' straws out'n the bed . 
He got two out , an' he bit one off , an' he says Harve , '' says he , I reckon we better draw fer him . 
Well , nobody ever knowed which got the shortes' straw , stranger , but Thar'll be a dancin' party comin' Christmas night on Hell fer Sartain . 
'' Rich Harp 'll be thar from the head waters . 
Harve Hall's a goin' to tote the Widder Shivers clean across the Cumberlan' . 
Fust one 'll swing Nance , an' then t'other . 
Then they'll take a pull out'n the same bottle o' moonshine , an' fust one an' then t'other they'll swing her agin , jes the same . 
Then the last light drenches the parson's cottage under Imboden Hill , and leaves an after glow of glory on a majestic heap that lies against the east . 
Sometimes it spans the Gap with a rainbow . 
Strange people and strange tales come through this Gap from the Kentucky hills . 
Through it came these two , late one day a man and a woman afoot . 
I met them at the foot bridge over Roaring Fork . 
Is thar a preacher anywhar aroun' hyeh ? '' he asked . 
I pointed to the cottage under Imboden Hill . 
The girl flushed slightly and turned her head away with a rather unhappy smile . 
Without a word , the mountaineer led the way towards town . 
A moment more and a half breed Malungian passed me on the bridge and followed them . 
At dusk the next day I saw the mountaineer chopping wood at a shanty under a clump of rhododendron on the river bank . 
The girl was cooking supper inside . 
The day following he was at work on the railroad , and on Sunday , after church , I saw the parson . 
The two had not been to him . 
Only that afternoon the mountaineer was on the bridge with another woman , hideously rouged and with scarlet ribbons fluttering from her bonnet . 
Passing on by the shanty , I saw the Malungian talking to the girl . 
She apparently paid no heed to him until , just as he was moving away , he said something mockingly , and with a nod of his head back towards the bridge . 
I was one of two who went out to arrest his assailant , and I had no need to ask who he was . 
The mountaineer was a devil , the foreman said , and I had to club him with a pistol butt before he would give in . 
He said he would get even with me but they all say that , and I paid no attention to the threat . 
For a week he was kept in the calaboose , and when I passed the shanty just after he was sent to the county seat for trial , I found it empty . 
The Malungian , too , was gone . 
Within a fortnight the mountaineer was in the door of the shanty again . 
Having no accuser , he had been discharged . 
He went back to his work , and if he opened his lips I never knew . 
Every day I saw him at work , and he never failed to give me a surly look . 
Every dusk I saw him in his door way , waiting , and I could guess for what . 
It was easy to believe that the stern purpose in his face would make its way through space and draw her to him again . 
And she did come back one day . 
I had just limped down the mountain with a sprained ankle . 
A crowd of women was gathered at the edge of the woods , looking with all their eyes to the shanty on the river bank . 
The girl stood in the door way . 
The mountaineer was coming back from work with his face down . 
He hain't seed her yit , '' said one . 
He's goin' to kill her shore . 
I tol' her he would . 
She said she reckoned he would , but she didn't keer . 
'' For a moment I was paralyzed by the tragedy at hand . 
She was in the door looking at him when he raised his head . 
For one moment he stood still , staring , and then he started towards her with a quickened step . 
I started too , then , every step a torture , and as I limped ahead she made a gesture of terror and backed into the room before him . 
The door closed , and I listened for a pistol shot and a scream . 
It must have been done with a knife , I thought , and quietly , for when I was within ten paces of the cabin he opened the door again . 
His face was very white he held one hand behind him , and he was nervously fumbling at his chill with the other . 
As he stepped towards me I caught the handle of a pistol in my side pocket and waited . 
He looked at me sharply . 
Did you say the preacher lived up thar ? '' he asked . 
Yes , '' I said , breathlessly . 
In the door way just then stood the girl with a bonnet in her hand , and at a nod from him they started up the hill towards the cottage . 
They came down again after a while , he stalking ahead , and she , after the mountain fashion , behind . 
And after this fashion I saw them at sunset next day pass over the bridge and into the mouth of the Gap whence they came . 
Through this Gap come strange people and strange tales from the Kentucky hills . 
Over it , sometimes , is the span of a rainbow . 
Fer in the tricks o' sech , ole Tom 'lows well , hit's diff'ent an' I reckon , stranger , as how hit sorter is . 
Now , stranger , that's Tom . 
Well , Abe Shivers was a workin' fer Tom you've heerd tell o' Abe an' the furriner wasn't more'n half gone afore Tom seed that Abe was up to some of his devilMINT . 
Co'se , Abe was goin' to make the furriner whack up fer gittin' the lan' so cheap . 
The furriner 'lowed he'd send his podner up thar next day to put the thing in writin' an' close up the trade . 
Hit looked like ole Tom was ketched fer shore , an' ef Tom didn't ra'r , I'd tell a man . 
Now , I clean fergot to tell ye , stranger , that Abe Shivers nuver could talk out loud . 
'' Stranger , the feller mos' fell off'n his hoss . 
Whut ? '' says he . 
Ole Tom kep' a whisperin' Thar hain't no coal no nothing ole Tom Perkins made me tell t'other furriner them lies . 
'' Well , sir , the feller WAS mad . 
Jes whut I tol' that fool podner of mine , '' he says , an' he pull out a dollar an' gives hit to Tom . 
, an' turns his hoss an' pulls up agin . 
'' Now , brother , I'm a separATE man , an' I don't inQUIZite into no man's business but you ax me straight an' I tell ye straight . 
Ole Tom Perkins kin trade with furriners , fer he have l'arned their ways . 
For they were hill people , who sicken , suffer , and sometimes die , like animals , and make no noise . 
He was whistling softly when Grayson got near , and , without stopping , pointed with his thumb within . 
The oldest boy sat stolidly on the one chair in the room , his little brother was on the floor hard by , and both were hugging a greasy stove . 
The little girl was with her mother in the bed , both almost out of sight under a heap of quilts . 
The baby was in a cradle , with its face uncovered , whether dead or asleep Grayson could not tell . 
A pine coffin was behind the door . 
It would not have been possible to add to the disorder of the room , and the atmosphere made Grayson gasp . 
He came out looking white . 
The baby boy that was left was the woman's own . 
Nobody came for that , and Grayson went in again and looked at it a long while . 
So little , so old a human face he had never seen . 
It was the pluck of the face that drew Grayson . 
I'll take it , '' he said . 
The doctor was not without his sense of humor even then , but he nodded . 
Cradle and all , '' he said , gravely . 
And Grayson put both on one shoulder and walked away . 
An hour later the doctor found the child in Grayson's room , and Grayson still looking at it . 
Is it going to live , doctor ? '' The doctor shook his head . 
There's nothing to do but to watch it and feed it . 
'' So Grayson watched it , with a fascination of which he was hardly conscious . 
Never for one instant did its look change the quiet , unyielding endurance that no faith and no philosophy could ever bring to him . 
It was ideal courage , that look , to accept the inevitable but to fight it just that way . 
Half the little mountain town was talking next day that such a tragedy was possible by the public road side , with relief within sound of the baby's cry . 
The oldest boy was least starved . 
Might made right in an extremity like his , and the boy had taken care of himself . 
The young couple who had the second lad in charge said they had been wakened at daylight the next morning by some noise in the room . 
Looking up , they saw the little fellow at the fireplace breaking an egg . 
He had built a fire , had got eggs from the kitchen , and was cooking his breakfast . 
The little girl was mischievous and cheery in spite of her bad plight , and nobody knew of the baby except Grayson and the doctor . 
Grayson would let nobody else in . 
As soon as it was well enough to be peevish and to cry , he took it back to its mother , who was still abed . 
A long , dark mountaineer was there , of whom the woman seemed half afraid . 
Then he flushed hot and wheeled back to the cabin , but the mountaineer was gone . 
In a few days the other children went back to the cabin , and day and night Grayson went to see the child , until it was out of danger , and afterwards . 
It was not long before the women in town complained that the mother was ungrateful . 
When they sent things to eat to her the servant brought back word that she had called out , Set them over thar , without so much as a thanky . 
'' One message was that she didn' want no second hand victuals from nobody's table . 
'' Somebody suggested sending the family to the poor house . 
'' One day she was hired to do some washing . 
The mistress of the house happened not to rise until ten o'clock . 
Next morning the mountain woman did not appear until that hour . 
She wasn't goin' to work a lick while that woman was a layin' in bed , '' she said , frankly . 
And when the lady went down town , she too disappeared . 
Nor would she , she explained to Grayson , while that woman was a struttin' the streets . 
'' After that , one by one , they let her alone , and the woman made not a word of complaint . 
Within a week she was working in the fields , when she should have been back in bed . 
The result was that the child sickened again . 
The old look came back to its face , and Grayson was there night and day . 
He was having trouble out in Kentucky about this time , and he went to the Blue Grass pretty often . 
He said he was sometimes afraid to open my letters for fear that he should read that the baby was dead . 
The child knew Grayson's voice , his step . 
It would go to him from its own mother . 
I thought several times it would die when , on one trip , Grayson was away for two weeks . 
One midnight , indeed , I found the mother moaning , and three female harpies about the cradle . 
The baby was dying this time , and I ran back for a flask of whiskey . 
Ten minutes late with the whiskey that night would have been too late . 
The baby got to know me and my voice during that fortnight , but it was still in danger when Grayson got back , and we went to see it together . 
The child opened its eyes , looked from one to the other , and held out its arms to ME . 
Grayson should have known that the child forgot that it would forget its own mother . 
He turned sharply , and his face was a little pale . 
He gave something to the woman , and not till then did I notice that her soft black eyes never left him while he was in the cabin . 
They don't grieve long , '' I said , these people . 
'' But long afterwards I saw the woman again along the dusty road that leads into the Gap . 
She had heard over in the mountains that Grayson was dead , and had walked for two days to learn if it was true . 
I pointed back towards Bee Rock , and told her that he had fallen from a cliff back there . 
She did not move , nor did her look change . 
Moreover , she said nothing , and , being in a hurry , I had to ride on . 
At the foot bridge over Roaring Fork I looked back . 
The woman was still there , under the hot mid day sun and in the dust of the road , motionless . 
COURTIN' ON CUTSHIN Hit was this way , stranger . 
So the boys over on Fryin' Pan made it up to git 'em together . 
, an' had said p'int blank that he was the likeliest feller she'd seed in them mountains . 
An' he tol' Polly Ann that Jeb was ravin' crazy 'bout her . 
to stay all night an' see the fun . 
Whar you says courtin' , '' now , we says talkin' to . 
'' Sallie Spurlock over on Fryin' Pan is a talkin' to Jim Howard now . 
Sallie's sister hain't nuver talked to no man . 
An' whar you says makin' a call on a young lady , '' we says settin' up with a gal'' ! An' , stranger , we does it . 
We hain't got more'n one room hardly ever in these mountains , an' we're jes obleeged to set up to do any courtin' at all . 
Well , you go over to Sallie's to stay all night some time , an' purty soon atter supper Jim Howard comes in . 
Then , stranger , hit begins . 
Now I want ye to understand that settin' up means business . 
Mebbe you've noticed whut fellers us mountain folks air fer whisperin' . 
I reckon thar's jes so much devilmint a goin' on in these mountains , folks is naturely afeerd to talk out loud . 
Brother , that's settin' up . 
Well , Jeb Somers , as I was a sayin' in the premises , 'lowed he'd rack right over on Cutshin an' set up with Polly Ann comin' Christmas night . 
An' Abe tells Polly Ann Jeb says he aims to have her fer a Christmas gift afore mornin' . 
Polly Ann jes sniffed sorter , but you know women folks air always mighty ambitious jes to SEE a feller anyways , 'f he's a pinin' fer 'em . 
So Jeb come , an' Jeb was fixed up now fittin' to kill . 
Jeb had his hair oiled down nice an' slick , and his mustache was jes black as powder could make hit . 
An' when the ole folks goes to bed , Nance lays thar under a quilt a watchin' an' a listenin' . 
I don't know as she'd 'a' hit him more'n ONCE . 
Jeb had a farm , an' Polly Ann well , Polly Ann was a gittin' along . 
An' thar he sot like a punkin , not sayin' a word nur doin' nothin' . 
An' Jeb waits another haffen hour an' Jeb says , Ortern't I be killed ? '' Whut fer ? '' says Polly Ann , sorter sharp . 
An' Jeb says , Fer bein' so devilish . 
That's what I said more'n two year ago , when Rosie Branham was a layin' up thar at Dave Hall's , white an' mos' dead . 
An' , GOD , boys , I says , that leetle thing in thar by her shorely can't be to blame . 
Thar hain't been a word agin Rosie sence an' , stranger , I reckon thar nuver will be . 
Rosie kep' her mouth shet fer a long while an' I reckon as how the feller 'lowed she wasn't goin' to tell . 
Well , my boy Jim an' a lot o' fellers jes went up fer him right away . 
Stranger , the sorry cuss was Dave . 
Rosie hadn't no daddy an' no mammy an' she was jes a workin' at Dave's fer her victuals an' clo'es . 
'Pears like the pore gal was jes tricked into evil . 
Looked like she was sorter 'witched an' anyways , stranger , she was a fightin' Satan in HERSELF , as well as in Dave . 
Hit was two agin one , I tell ye , an' hit wasn't fa'r . 
He keeps purty shy YIT . 
He don't nuver sa'nter down this way . 
'Pears like he don't seem to think hit's healthy fer him down hyeh , an' I reckon Dave's right . 
Rosie ? Oh , well , I sorter tuk Rosie in myself . 
Yes , she's been livin' thar in the shack with me an' my boy Jim , an' the Why , thar he is now , stranger . 
That's him a wallerin' out thar in the road . 
Hit hain't the woman's fault . 
You ricollect , dad , '' says Jim , her mammy ? '' Yes , Jim , '' I says all the better reason not to be too hard on Rosie . 
'' I'm a lookin' fer 'em both back right now , stranger an' ef you will , I'll be mighty glad to have ye stay right hyeh to the infair this very night . 
Sometimes his bushy head would droop over on his breast , and he would snap it up sharply and start painfully on . 
Only that Christmas he had gutted every store in town . 
When the boom went down , with it and with everybody else went the Senator . 
Slowly he got dusty , ragged , long of hair . 
He looked tortured and ever restless . 
Still was every man his brother , and if some forgot his once open hand , he forgot it no more completely than did the Senator . 
He went very far to pay his debts . 
He felt honor bound , indeed , to ask his sister to give back the farm that he had given her , which , very properly people said , she declined to do . 
This was the Senator's last trade , and in sight , down in a Kentucky valley , was home . 
Strangely enough , the Senator did not care at all , and he had just enough sanity left to wonder why , and to be worried . 
It was the walking typhoid'' that had caught up with him , and he was listless , and he made strange gestures and did foolish things as he stumbled down the mountain . 
He was going over a little knoll now , and he could see the creek that ran around his house , but he was not touched . 
He remembered that it was nigh Christmas he saw the snow about him and the cakes of ice in the creek . 
He knew that he ought not to be hot , and yet he was so hot that he refused to reason with himself even a minute , and hurried on . 
If he had lived a little longer , '' said a constituent , he would have lost the next election . 
He hadn't the money , you know . 
'' If he had lived a little longer , '' said the mountain preacher high up on Yellow Creek , I'd have got that trade I had on hand with him through . 
'' If he had lived a little longer , '' said the Senator's sister , not meaning to be unkind , he would have got all I have . 
'' That was what life held for the Senator . 
PREACHIN' ON KINGDOM COME I've told ye , stranger , that Hell fer Sartain empties , as it oughter , of co'se , into Kingdom Come . 
You can ketch the devil 'most any day in the week on Hell fer Sartain , an' sometimes you can git Glory everlastin' on Kingdom Come . 
Hit's the only meetin' house thar in twenty miles aroun' . 
Well , the reg'lar rider , ole Jim Skaggs , was dead , an' the bretherin was a lookin' aroun' fer somebody to step into ole Jim's shoes . 
Thar'd been one young feller up thar from the settlemints , a cavortin' aroun' , an' they was studyin' 'bout gittin' him . 
Bretherin' an' sisteren , '' I says , atter the leetle chap was gone , he's got the fortitood to speak an' he shorely is well favored . 
Stranger , them fellers over thar hain't seed much o' this world . 
Lots of 'em nuver seed the cyars some of 'em nuver seed a wagon . 
They'd heerd o' Henry endurin' the war , an' they knowed he was agin the rebs , an' they wanted Henry if they could jes git him to come . 
Well , I snorted , an' the feud broke out on Hell fer Sartain betwixt the Days an' the Dillons . 
This feller comes over from Hazlan an' says he aims to hold a meetin' on Kingdom Come . 
Brother , '' I says , that's what no preacher have ever did whilst this war is a goin' on . 
'' An' he says , sort o' quiet , Well , then , I reckon I'll have to do what no preacher have ever did . 
'' An' I ups an' says Brother , an ole jedge come up here once from the settlemints to hold couht . 
Jedge , I says , that's what no jedge have ever did without soldiers since this war's been a goin' on . 
An' , brother , the jedge's words was yours , p'int blank . 
All right , he says , then I'll have to do what no other jedge have ever did . 
An' , brother , '' says I to the preacher , the jedge done it shore . 
He jes laid under the couht house fer two days whilst the boys fit over him . 
An' when I sees the jedge a makin' tracks fer the settlemints , I says , Jedge , I says , you spoke a parable shore . 
An' atter the thing was over , I steps up to the preacher an' I says Brother , '' I says , YOU spoke a parable , shore . 
'' THE PASSING OF ABRAHAM SHIVERS I tell ye , boys , hit hain t often a feller has the chance o' doin' so much good jes by DYIN' . 
Fer 'f Abe Shivers air gone , shorely gone , the rest of us every durn one of us air a goin' to be saved . 
Fer Abe Shivers you hain't heerd tell o' ABE ? Well , you must be a stranger in these mountains o' Kaintuck , shore . 
I don't know , stranger , as Abe ever was borned nobody in these mountains knows it 'f he was . 
Abe was left thar by some home gyard , I reckon . 
Well , nobody air ever turned out'n doors in these mountains , as you know , an' Abe got his rights that mawin' , an' he's been a gittin' 'em ever sence . 
Tom already had a houseful , but 'f any feller got the bigges' hunk o' corn bread , that feller was Abe an' ef any feller got a whalin' , hit wasn't Abe . 
Abe tuk to lyin' right naturely looked like afore he could talk . 
Fact is , Abe nuver could do nothin' but jes whisper . 
Didn't take Abe long to git to braggin' an' drinkin' an' naggin' an' hectorin' everything , 'mos' , 'cept fightin' . 
Nobody ever drawed Abe Shivers into a fight . 
I don't know as he was afeerd looked like Abe was a havin' sech a tarnation good time with his devilmint he jes didn't want to run no risk o' havin' hit stopped . 
An' sech devilmint ! Hit ud take a coon's age , I reckon , to tell ye . 
The boys was a goin' up the river one night to git ole Dave Hall fer trickin' Rosie Branham into evil . 
Some feller goes ahead an' tells ole Dave they's a comin . 
Now Tom raised Abe , but , jes the same , the feller was Abe . 
One night somebody guides the revenoos in on Hell fer Sartain , an' they cuts up four stills . 
The same night , mind ye , a feller slips in among the revenoos while they's asleep , and cuts off their hosses' manes an' tails muled every durned critter uv 'em . 
Stranger , hit was Abe . 
Somebody tells Harve Hall , up thar at a dance on Hell fer Sartain one Christmas night , that Rich Harp had said somep'n' agin him an' Nance Osborn . 
An' somebody tells Rich that Harve had said sompe'n' agin Nance an' HIM . 
Hit was one an' the same feller , stranger , an' the feller was Abe . 
Well , while Rich an' Harve was a gittin' well , somebody runs off with Nance . 
Then Rich an' Harve jes draws straws fer a feller . 
Stranger , they drawed fer Abe . 
Fer Abe's gone fust , an' ef thar's only one Jedgment Day , the Lawd 'll nuver git to us . 
'' A PURPLE RHODODENDRON The purple rhododendron is rare . 
Up in the Gap here , Bee Rock , hung out over Roaring Rock , blossoms with it as a gray cloud purples with the sunrise . 
This rock was tossed lightly on edge when the earth was young , and stands vertical . 
To avoid snakes it is best to go when it is cool , at daybreak . 
I know but one other place in this southwest corner of Virginia where there is another bush of purple rhododendron , and one bush only is there . 
This hangs at the throat of a peak not far away , whose ageless gray head is bent over a ravine that sinks like a spear thrust into the side of the mountain . 
Swept only by high wind and eagle wings as this is , I yet knew one man foolhardy enough to climb to it for a flower . 
I believe he was the strangest man I have ever known , and I say this with thought for his eccentricities were sincere . 
In all he did I cannot remember having even suspected anything theatrical but once . 
We were all Virginians or Kentuckians at the Gap , and Grayson was a Virginian . 
You might have guessed that he was a Southerner from his voice and from the way he spoke of women but no more . 
Otherwise , he might have been a Moor , except for his color , which was about the only racial characteristic he had . 
He had been educated abroad and , after the English habit , had travelled everywhere . 
And yet I can imagine no more lonely way between the eternities than the path Grayson trod alone . 
He came to the Gap in the early days , and just why he came I never knew . 
He had studied the iron question a long time , he told me , and what I thought reckless speculation was , it seems , deliberate judgment to him . 
His money in the dirt , '' as the phrase was , Grayson got him a horse and rode the hills and waited . 
He was intimate with nobody . 
Occasionally he would play poker with us and sometimes he drank a good deal , but liquor never loosed his tongue . 
Every fortnight or two he would disappear , always over Sunday . 
Where he went nobody knew and he was not the man anybody would question . 
Grayson sat near , smoking a pipe and when I read the girl's name I saw him take the meerschaum from his lips , and I felt his eyes on me . 
It was a mystery how , but I knew at once that Grayson was the man . 
He sought me out after that and seemed to want to make friends . 
I was willing , or , rather he made me more than willing for he was irresistible to me , as I imagine he would have been to anybody . 
We got to walking together and riding together at night , and we were soon rather intimate but for a long time he never so much as spoke the girl's name . 
Indeed , he kept away from the Bluegrass for nearly two months but when he did go he stayed a fortnight . 
This time he came for me as soon as he got back to the Gap . 
There Grayson turned to me with an eager light in his eyes that I had never seen before . 
This has a new beauty to night ! '' he said and then I told her about you , and she said that she used to know you well . 
In the end , he said that she had just promised to be his wife . 
Other men , I knew , had said that with the same right , perhaps , and had gone from her to go back no more . 
And I was one of them . 
Grayson had met her at White Sulphur five years before , and had loved her ever since . 
She had known it from the first , he said , and I guessed then what was going to happen to him . 
That spring the boom'' came . 
Grayson's property quadrupled in value and quadrupled again . 
I was his lawyer , and I plead with him to sell but Grayson laughed . 
He was not speculating he had invested on judgment he would sell only at a certain figure . 
The figure was actually reached , and Grayson let half go . 
The boom fell , and Grayson took the tumble with a jest . 
It would come again in the autumn , he said , and he went off to meet the girl at White Sulphur . 
I worked right hard that summer , but I missed him , and I surely was glad when he came back . 
Something was wrong I saw it at once . 
He did not mention her name , and for a while he avoided even me . 
Waiting for him to speak , I learned for the first time then another secret of his wretched melancholy . 
It was the hopelessness of that time , perhaps , that disclosed it . 
Grayson had lost the faith of his childhood . 
Most men do that at some time or other , but Grayson had no business , no profession , no art in which to find relief . 
Indeed , there was but one substitute possible , and that came like a gift straight from the God whom he denied . 
Love came , and Grayson's ideals of love , as of everything else , were morbid and quixotic . 
He believed that he owed it to the woman he should marry never to have loved another . 
He had loved but one woman , he said , and he should love but one . 
I was not surprised that he rather defended it . 
Neither of us said anything new , only I did not like the way he talked . 
He was too deliberate , too serious , as though he were really facing a possible fact . 
Desertion was the act of a coward , and that Grayson could not deny . 
That autumn the crash of came across the water from England , and Grayson gave up . 
He went to Richmond , and came back with money enough to pay off his notes , and I think it took nearly all he had . 
Now he was the first man to answer a police whistle . 
When we were guarding Talt Hall , he always volunteered when there was any unusual risk to run . 
Grayson sprang through the door first , and he was the man who thrust his reckless head up into the loft and lighted a match to see if the murderers were there . 
Most of us did foolish things in those days under stress of excitement , but Grayson , I saw , was weak enough to be reckless . 
His trouble with the girl , whatever it was , was serious enough to make him apparently care little whether he were alive or dead . 
And still I saw that not yet even had he lost hope . 
He was having a sore fight with his pride , and he got body worn and heart sick over it . 
Of course he was worsted , and in the end , from sheer weakness , he went back to her once more . 
I shall never see another face like his when Grayson came back that last time . 
I never noticed before that there were silver hairs about his temples . 
He stayed in his room , and had his meals sent to him . 
He came out only to ride , and then at night . 
Waking the third morning at daybreak , I saw him through the window galloping past , and I knew he had spent the night on Black Mountain . 
I reeled into a chair before I had strength enough to bend over him , and when I did I found him asleep . 
I said it was small , mean , cowardly , criminal , contemptible ! I was savagely in earnest , and Grayson shivered and said not a word . 
I thought he was in better mind after that . 
We got to taking night rides again , and I stayed as closely to him as I could , for times got worse and trouble was upon everybody . 
Notes fell thicker than snowflakes , and , through the foolish policy of the company , foreclosures had to be made . 
Grayson went to the wall like the rest of us . 
I asked him what he had done with the money he had made . 
He had given away a great deal to poorer kindred he had paid his dead father's debts he had played away a good deal , and he had lost the rest . 
His faith was still imperturbable . 
He had a dozen rectangles of dirt , '' and from these , he said , it would all come back some day . 
Still , he felt the sudden poverty keenly , but he faced it as he did any other physical fact in life dauntless . 
He used to be fond of saying that no one thing could make him miserable . 
He had one strange habit , too , from which I got comfort . 
He would deliberately walk into and defy any temptation that beset him . 
That was the way he strengthened himself , he said . 
seemed actually to have come . 
I could see now that he got worse daily . 
He stopped his mockeries , his occasional fits of reckless gayety . 
He stopped poker resolutely he couldn't afford to lose now and , what puzzled me , he stopped drinking . 
We both helped capture him , and I defended him . 
He was sentenced to hang the glass was my fee . 
We sat down opposite Bee Rock , and for the first time Grayson told me of that last scene with her . 
He spoke without bitterness , and he told me what she said , word for word , without a breath of blame for her . 
I asked Grayson what his answer was . 
I asked her , '' he said , solemnly , if she had ever seen a purple rhododendron . 
'' I almost laughed , picturing the scene the girl bewildered by his absurd question Grayson calm , superbly courteous . 
It was a mental peculiarity of his this irrelevancy and it was like him to end a matter of life and death in just that way . 
I told her I should send her one . 
There is just one bush of rhododendron up there , '' he went on . 
I saw it looking down from the Point last spring . 
I imagine it must blossom earlier than that across there on Bee Rock , being always in the sun . 
No , it's not budding yet , '' he added , with his eye to the glass . 
You see that ledge just to the left ? I dropped a big rock from the Point square on a rattler who was sunning himself there last spring . 
I can see a foothold all the way up the cliff . 
It can be done , '' he concluded , in a tone that made me turn sharply upon him . 
Do you really mean to climb up there ? '' I asked , harshly . 
If it blossoms first up there I'll get it where it blooms first . 
'' In a moment I was angry and half sick with suspicion , for I knew his obstinacy and then began what I am half ashamed to tell . 
Every day thereafter Grayson took that glass with him , and I went along to humor him . 
I watched Bee Rock , and he that one bush at the throat of the peak neither of us talking over the matter again . 
It was uncanny , that rivalry sun and wind in one spot , sun and wind in another Nature herself casting the fate of a half crazed fool with a flower . 
It was utterly absurd , but I got nervous over it apprehensive , dismal . 
A week later it rained for two days , and the water was high . 
The next day the sun shone , and that afternoon Grayson smiled , looking through the glass , and handed it to me . 
I knew what I should see . 
One purple cluster , full blown , was shaking in the wind . 
Grayson was leaning back in a dream when I let the glass down . 
He did not come for me the next day , nor the next but the next he did , earlier than usual . 
I am going to get that rhododendron , '' he said . 
I have been half way up it can be reached . 
'' So had I been half way up . 
With nerve and agility the flower could be got , and both these Grayson had . 
If he had wanted to climb up there and drop , he could have done it alone , and he would have known that I should have found him . 
I swore to myself silently that it was the last time I should pay any heed to his whims . 
I believed this would be the last . 
The affair with the girl was over . 
The flower sent , I knew Grayson would never mention her name again . 
Nature was radiant that afternoon . 
Two eagles shot across the mouth of the Gap as we neared it , and high beyond buzzards were sailing over Grayson's rhododendron . 
I went up the ravine with him and I climbed up behind him Grayson going very deliberately and whistling softly . 
He called down to me when he reached the shelf that looked half way . 
You mustn't come any farther than this , '' he said . 
Get out on that rock and I'll drop them down to you . 
'' Then he jumped from the ledge and caught the body of a small tree close to the roots , and my heart sank at such recklessness and all my fears rose again . 
I scrambled hastily to the ledge , but I could get no farther . 
I might possibly make the jump he had made but how should I ever get back ? How would he ? I called angrily after him now , and he wouldn't answer me . 
I had to lie down to keep from tumbling from the ledge and there on my side , gripping a pine bush , I lay looking up at him . 
Then with his left hand he caught the ledge to the left , strained up , and , holding thus , reached out with his right . 
The hand closed about the cluster , and the twig was broken . 
Grayson gave a great shout then . 
He turned his head as though to drop them , and , that far away , I heard the sibilant whir of rattles . 
I found him down there in the ravine with nearly every bone in his body crushed . 
His left arm was under him , and outstretched in his right hand was the shattered cluster , with every blossom gone but one . 
One white half of his face was unmarked , and on it was still the shadow of a smile . 
I think it meant more than that Grayson believed that he was near peace at last . 
It meant that Fate had done the deed for him and that he was glad . 
That night I wrote to the woman in Kentucky . 
I told her that Grayson had fallen from a cliff while climbing for flowers and that he was dead . 
Along with these words , I sent a purple rhododendron . 
