Electronic Edition by dell wiretap . 
BY ORDER OF THE AUTHOR , Per G. G. , Chief of Ordnance . 
I make this explanation for the reason that without it many readers would suppose that all these characters were trying to talk alike and not succeeding . 
That book was made by Mr. Mark Twain , and he told the truth , mainly . 
There was things which he stretched , but mainly he told the truth . 
I never seen anybody but lied one time or another , without it was Aunt Polly , or the widow , or maybe Mary . 
Now the way that the book winds up is this Tom and me found the money that the robbers hid in the cave , and it made us rich . 
We got six thousand dollars apiece all gold . 
It was an awful sight of money when it was piled up . 
I got into my old rags and my sugar hogshead again , and was free and satisfied . 
She put me in them new clothes again , and I couldn't do nothing but sweat and sweat , and feel all cramped up . 
Well , then , the old thing commenced again . 
The widow rung a bell for supper , and you had to come to time . 
In a barrel of odds and ends it is different things get mixed up , and the juice kind of swaps around , and the things go better . 
Pretty soon I wanted to smoke , and asked the widow to let me . 
She said it was a mean practice and wasn't clean , and I must try to not do it any more . 
That is just the way with some people . 
They get down on a thing when they don't know nothing about it . 
And she took snuff , too of course that was all right , because she done it herself . 
She worked me middling hard for about an hour , and then the widow made her ease up . 
I couldn't stood it much longer . 
Then for an hour it was deadly dull , and I was fidgety . 
She got mad then , but I didn't mean no harm . 
All I wanted was to go somewheres all I wanted was a change , I warn't particular . 
She said it was wicked to say what I said said she wouldn't say it for the whole world she was going to live so as to go to the good place . 
Well , I couldn't see no advantage in going where she was going , so I made up my mind I wouldn't try for it . 
But I never said so , because it would only make trouble , and wouldn't do no good . 
Now she had got a start , and she went on and told me all about the good place . 
She said all a body would have to do there was to go around all day long with a harp and sing , forever and ever . 
So I didn't think much of it . 
But I never said so . 
I asked her if she reckoned Tom Sawyer would go there , and she said not by a considerable sight . 
I was glad about that , because I wanted him and me to be together . 
Miss Watson she kept pecking at me , and it got tiresome and lonesome . 
By and by they fetched the niggers in and had prayers , and then everybody was off to bed . 
I went up to my room with a piece of candle , and put it on the table . 
Then I set down in a chair by the window and tried to think of something cheerful , but it warn't no use . 
I felt so lonesome I most wished I was dead . 
I got so down hearted and scared I did wish I had some company . 
Pretty soon a spider went crawling up my shoulder , and I flipped it off and it lit in the candle and before I could budge it was all shriveled up . 
But I hadn't no confidence . 
Well , after a long time I heard the clock away off in the town go boom boom boom twelve licks and all still again stiller than ever . 
Pretty soon I heard a twig snap down in the dark amongst the trees something was a stirring . 
I set still and listened . 
Directly I could just barely hear a me yow ! me yow ! down there . 
Then I slipped down to the ground and crawled in among the trees , and , sure enough , there was Tom Sawyer waiting for me . 
WE went tiptoeing along a path amongst the trees back towards the end of the widow's garden , stooping down so as the branches wouldn't scrape our heads . 
When we was passing by the kitchen I fell over a root and made a noise . 
We scrouched down and laid still . 
Miss Watson's big nigger , named Jim , was setting in the kitchen door we could see him pretty clear , because there was a light behind him . 
He got up and stretched his neck out about a minute , listening . 
Then he says Who dah ? He listened some more then he come tiptoeing down and stood right between us we could a touched him , nearly . 
Well , likely it was minutes and minutes that there warn't a sound , and we all there so close together . 
Seemed like I'd die if I couldn't scratch . 
Well , I've noticed that thing plenty times since . 
Pretty soon Jim says Say , who is you ? Whar is you ? Dog my cats ef I didn' hear sumf'n . 
Well , I know what I's gwyne to do I's gwyne to set down here and listen tell I hears it agin . 
So he set down on the ground betwixt me and Tom . 
He leaned his back up against a tree , and stretched his legs out till one of them most touched one of mine . 
My nose begun to itch . 
It itched till the tears come into my eyes . 
Then it begun to itch on the inside . 
Next I got to itching under neath . 
I didn't know how I was going to set still . 
This miserableness went on as much as six or seven minutes but it seemed a sight longer than that . 
I was itching in eleven different places now . 
I reckoned I couldn't stand it more'n a minute longer , but I set my teeth hard and got ready to try . 
Just then Jim begun to breathe heavy next he begun to snore and then I was pretty soon comfortable again . 
Tom he made a sign to me kind of a little noise with his mouth and we went creeping away on our hands and knees . 
When we was ten foot off Tom whispered to me , and wanted to tie Jim to the tree for fun . 
But I said no he might wake and make a dis turbance , and then they'd find out I warn't in . 
Then Tom said he hadn't got candles enough , and he would slip in the kitchen and get some more . 
I didn't want him to try . 
I said Jim might wake up and come . 
But Tom wanted to resk it so we slid in there and got three candles , and Tom laid five cents on the table for pay . 
I waited , and it seemed a good while , everything was so still and lonesome . 
Tom said he slipped Jim's hat off of his head and hung it on a limb right over him , and Jim stirred a little , but he didn't wake . 
Jim was monstrous proud about it , and he got so he wouldn't hardly notice the other niggers . 
Niggers would come miles to hear Jim tell about it , and he was more looked up to than any nigger in that country . 
Strange niggers would stand with their mouths open and look him all over , same as if he was a wonder . 
Jim was most ruined for a servant , because he got stuck up on account of having seen the devil and been rode by witches . 
We went down the hill and found Jo Harper and Ben Rogers , and two or three more of the boys , hid in the old tanyard . 
So we unhitched a skiff and pulled down the river two mile and a half , to the big scar on the hillside , and went ashore . 
Then we lit the candles , and crawled in on our hands and knees . 
We went about two hundred yards , and then the cave opened up . 
Tom poked about amongst the passages , and pretty soon ducked under a wall where you wouldn't a noticed that there was a hole . 
We went along a narrow place and got into a kind of room , all damp and sweaty and cold , and there we stopped . 
Tom says Now , we'll start this band of robbers and call it Tom Sawyer's Gang . 
Everybody that wants to join has got to take an oath , and write his name in blood . 
So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had wrote the oath on , and read it . 
And nobody that didn't belong to the band could use that mark , and if he did he must be sued and if he done it again he must be killed . 
Everybody said it was a real beautiful oath , and asked Tom if he got it out of his own head . 
He said , some of it , but the rest was out of pirate books and robber books , and every gang that was high toned had it . 
Some thought it would be good to kill the FAMILIES of boys that told the secrets . 
Tom said it was a good idea , so he took a pencil and wrote it in . 
Then Ben Rogers says Here's Huck Finn , he hain't got no family what you going to do 'bout him ? Well , hain't he got a father ? says Tom Sawyer . 
Yes , he's got a father , but you can't never find him these days . 
He used to lay drunk with the hogs in the tanyard , but he hain't been seen in these parts for a year or more . 
Well , nobody could think of anything to do everybody was stumped , and set still . 
I was most ready to cry but all at once I thought of a way , and so I offered them Miss Watson they could kill her . 
Everybody said Oh , she'll do . 
Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with , and I made my mark on the paper . 
Now , says Ben Rogers , what's the line of busi ness of this Gang ? Nothing only robbery and murder , Tom said . 
But who are we going to rob ? houses , or cattle , or Stuff ! stealing cattle and such things ain't rob bery it's burglary , says Tom Sawyer . 
That ain't no sort of style . 
We stop stages and carriages on the road , with masks on , and kill the people and take their watches and money . 
Must we always kill the people ? Oh , certainly . 
Some authorities think different , but mostly it's considered best to kill them except some that you bring to the cave here , and keep them till they're ransomed . 
Ransomed ? What's that ? I don't know . 
But that's what they do . 
I've seen it in books and so of course that's what we've got to do . 
But how can we do it if we don't know what it is ? Why , blame it all , we've GOT to do it . 
Now , what do you reckon it is ? Well , I don't know . 
But per'aps if we keep them till they're ransomed , it means that we keep them till they're dead . 
Now , that's something LIKE . 
Why couldn't you said that before ? We'll keep them till they're ransomed to death and a bothersome lot they'll be , too eating up everything , and always trying to get loose . 
How you talk , Ben Rogers . 
How can they get loose when there's a guard over them , ready to shoot them down if they move a peg ? A guard ! Well , that IS good . 
So somebody's got to set up all night and never get any sleep , just so as to watch them . 
Why can't a body take a club and ransom them as soon as they get here ? Because it ain't in the books so that's why . 
Now , Ben Rogers , do you want to do things regular , or don't you ? that's the idea . 
Don't you reckon that the people that made the books knows what's the correct thing to do ? Do you reckon YOU can learn 'em anything ? Not by a good deal . 
No , sir , we'll just go on and ransom them in the regular way . 
I don't mind but I say it's a fool way , anyhow . 
Say , do we kill the women , too ? Well , Ben Rogers , if I was as ignorant as you I wouldn't let on . 
Kill the women ? No nobody ever saw anything in the books like that . 
Well , if that's the way I'm agreed , but I don't take no stock in it . 
Mighty soon we'll have the cave so cluttered up with women , and fellows waiting to be ransomed , that there won't be no place for the rob bers . 
But go ahead , I ain't got nothing to say . 
So they all made fun of him , and called him cry baby , and that made him mad , and he said he would go straight and tell all the secrets . 
But Tom give him five cents to keep quiet , and said we would all go home and meet next week , and rob somebody and kill some people . 
I clumb up the shed and crept into my window just before day was breaking . 
My new clothes was all greased up and clayey , and I was dog tired . 
Then Miss Watson she took me in the closet and prayed , but nothing come of it . 
She told me to pray every day , and whatever I asked for I would get it . 
Once I got a fish line , but no hooks . 
It warn't any good to me without hooks . 
I tried for the hooks three or four times , but somehow I couldn't make it work . 
By and by , one day , I asked Miss Watson to try for me , but she said I was a fool . 
She never told me why , and I couldn't make it out no way . 
I set down one time back in the woods , and had a long think about it . 
I went and told the widow about it , and she said the thing a body could get by praying for it was spiritual gifts . 
This was including Miss Watson , as I took it . 
Pap he hadn't been seen for more than a year , and that was comfortable for me I didn't want to see him no more . 
He used to always whale me when he was sober and could get his hands on me though I used to take to the woods most of the time when he was around . 
Well , about this time he was found in the river drownded , about twelve mile above town , so people said . 
They said he was floating on his back in the water . 
They took him and buried him on the bank . 
But I warn't comfortable long , because I happened to think of something . 
I knowed mighty well that a drownded man don't float on his back , but on his face . 
So I knowed , then , that this warn't pap , but a woman dressed up in a man's clothes . 
So I was uncomfortable again . 
I judged the old man would turn up again by and by , though I wished he wouldn't . 
We played robber now and then about a month , and then I resigned . 
We hadn't robbed nobody , hadn't killed any people , but only just pre tended . 
We used to hop out of the woods and go charging down on hog drivers and women in carts taking garden stuff to market , but we never hived any of them . 
But I couldn't see no profit in it . 
He said we must slick up our swords and guns , and get ready . 
But there warn't no Spaniards and A rabs , and there warn't no camels nor no elephants . 
It warn't anything but a Sunday school picnic , and only a primer class at that . 
I didn't see no di'monds , and I told Tom Sawyer so . 
He said there was loads of them there , anyway and he said there was A rabs there , too , and elephants and things . 
I said , why couldn't we see them , then ? He said if I warn't so ignorant , but had read a book called Don Quixote , I would know without asking . 
He said it was all done by enchantment . 
I said , all right then the thing for us to do was to go for the magicians . 
Tom Sawyer said I was a numskull . 
Why , said he , a magician could call up a lot of genies , and they would hash you up like nothing before you could say Jack Robinson . 
They are as tall as a tree and as big around as a church . 
Well , I says , s'pose we got some genies to help US can't we lick the other crowd then ? How you going to get them ? I don't know . 
They don't think nothing of pulling a shot tower up by the roots , and belting a Sunday school superinten dent over the head with it or any other man . 
Who makes them tear around so ? Why , whoever rubs the lamp or the ring . 
They belong to whoever rubs the lamp or the ring , and they've got to do whatever he says . 
And more they've got to waltz that palace around over the country wherever you want it , you understand . 
Well , says I , I think they are a pack of flat heads for not keeping the palace themselves 'stead of fooling them away like that . 
How you talk , Huck Finn . 
Why , you'd HAVE to come when he rubbed it , whether you wanted to or not . 
Shucks , it ain't no use to talk to you , Huck Finn . 
You don't seem to know anything , somehow perfect saphead . 
I thought all this over for two or three days , and then I reckoned I would see if there was anything in it . 
So then I judged that all that stuff was only just one of Tom Sawyer's lies . 
I reckoned he believed in the A rabs and the elephants , but as for me I think different . 
It had all the marks of a Sunday school . 
WELL , three or four months run along , and it was well into the winter now . 
I don't take no stock in mathematics , any way . 
At first I hated the school , but by and by I got so I could stand it . 
Whenever I got uncommon tired I played hookey , and the hiding I got next day done me good and cheered me up . 
So the longer I went to school the easier it got to be . 
I was getting sort of used to the widow's ways , too , and they warn't so raspy on me . 
I liked the old ways best , but I was getting so I liked the new ones , too , a little bit . 
The widow said I was coming along slow but sure , and doing very satisfactory . 
She said she warn't ashamed of me . 
One morning I happened to turn over the salt cellar at breakfast . 
I started out , after breakfast , feeling worried and shaky , and wondering where it was going to fall on me , and what it was going to be . 
I went down to the front garden and clumb over the stile where you go through the high board fence . 
There was an inch of new snow on the ground , and I seen somebody's tracks . 
They had come up from the quarry and stood around the stile a while , and then went on around the garden fence . 
It was funny they hadn't come in , after standing around so . 
I couldn't make it out . 
It was very curious , somehow . 
I was going to follow around , but I stooped down to look at the tracks first . 
I didn't notice anything at first , but next I did . 
There was a cross in the left boot heel made with big nails , to keep off the devil . 
I was up in a second and shinning down the hill . 
I looked over my shoulder every now and then , but I didn't see nobody . 
I was at Judge Thatcher's as quick as I could get there . 
He said Why , my boy , you are all out of breath . 
Quite a fortune for you . 
You had better let me invest it along with your six thousand , because if you take it you'll spend it . 
No , sir , I says , I don't want to spend it . 
I don't want it at all nor the six thousand , nuther . 
I want you to take it I want to give it to you the six thousand and all . 
He couldn't seem to make it out . 
He says Why , what can you mean , my boy ? I says , Don't you ask me no questions about it , please . 
You'll take it won't you ? He says Well , I'm puzzled . 
Is something the matter ? Please take it , says I , and don't ask me noth ing then I won't have to tell no lies . 
He studied a while , and then he says Oho o ! I think I see . 
You want to SELL all your property to me not give it . 
Then he wrote something on a paper and read it over , and says There you see it says 'for a consideration . 
That means I have bought it of you and paid you for it . 
Here's a dollar for you . 
So I signed it , and left . 
He said there was a spirit inside of it , and it knowed everything . 
So I went to him that night and told him pap was here again , for I found his tracks in the snow . 
It fell pretty solid , and only rolled about an inch . 
Jim tried it again , and then another time , and it acted just the same . 
Jim got down on his knees , and put his ear against it and listened . 
But it warn't no use he said it wouldn't talk . 
He said sometimes it wouldn't talk without money . 
I said it was pretty bad money , but maybe the hair ball would take it , because maybe it wouldn't know the difference . 
Jim smelt it and bit it and rubbed it , and said he would manage so the hair ball would think it was good . 
Well , I knowed a potato would do that before , but I had forgot it . 
Jim put the quarter under the hair ball , and got down and listened again . 
This time he said the hair ball was all right . 
He said it would tell my whole fortune if I wanted it to . 
I says , go on . 
So the hair ball talked to Jim , and Jim told it to me . 
He says Yo' ole father doan' know yit what he's a gwyne to do . 
Sometimes he spec he'll go 'way , en den agin he spec he'll stay . 
De bes' way is to res' easy en let de ole man take his own way . 
Dey's two angels hoverin' roun' 'bout him . 
One uv 'em is white en shiny , en t'other one is black . 
De white one gits him to go right a little while , den de black one sail in en bust it all up . 
A body can't tell yit which one gwyne to fetch him at de las' . 
But you is all right . 
You gwyne to have considable trouble in yo' life , en con sidable joy . 
Sometimes you gwyne to git hurt , en sometimes you gwyne to git sick but every time you's gwyne to git well agin . 
Dey's two gals flyin' 'bout you in yo' life . 
One uv 'em's light en t'other one is dark . 
One is rich en t'other is po' . 
You's gwyne to marry de po' one fust en de rich one by en by . 
You wants to keep 'way fum de water as much as you kin , en don't run no resk , 'kase it's down in de bills dat you's gwyne to git hung . 
When I lit my candle and went up to my room that night there sat pap his own self ! CHAPTER V. I HAD shut the door to . 
I used to be scared of him all the time , he tanned me so much . 
He was most fifty , and he looked it . 
His hair was long and tangled and greasy , and hung down , and you could see his eyes shining through like he was behind vines . 
It was all black , no gray so was his long , mixed up whiskers . 
As for his clothes just rags , that was all . 
He had one ankle resting on t'other knee the boot on that foot was busted , and two of his toes stuck through , and he worked them now and then . 
His hat was laying on the floor an old black slouch with the top caved in , like a lid . 
I stood a looking at him he set there a looking at me , with his chair tilted back a little . 
I set the candle down . 
I noticed the window was up so he had clumb in by the shed . 
He kept a looking me all over . 
By and by he says Starchy clothes very . 
You think you're a good deal of a big bug , DON'T you ? Maybe I am , maybe I ain't , I says . 
Don't you give me none o' your lip , says he . 
You've put on considerable many frills since I been away . 
I'll take you down a peg before I get done with you . 
You're educated , too , they say can read and write . 
You think you're better'n your father , now , don't you , because he can't ? I'LL take it out of you . 
Who told you you might meddle with such hifalut'n foolishness , hey ? who told you you could ? The widow . 
The widow , hey ? and who told the widow she could put in her shovel about a thing that ain't none of her business ? Nobody never told her . 
Well , I'll learn her how to meddle . 
You lemme catch you fooling around that school again , you hear ? Your mother couldn't read , and she couldn't write , nuther , before she died . 
None of the family couldn't before THEY died . 
I can't and here you're a swelling yourself up like this . 
I ain't the man to stand it you hear ? Say , lemme hear you read . 
I took up a book and begun something about Gen eral Washington and the wars . 
When I'd read about a half a minute , he fetched the book a whack with his hand and knocked it across the house . 
I had my doubts when you told me . 
Now looky here you stop that putting on frills . 
I'll lay for you , my smarty and if I catch you about that school I'll tan you good . 
First you know you'll get religion , too . 
I never see such a son . 
He took up a little blue and yaller picture of some cows and a boy , and says What's this ? It's something they give me for learning my lessons good . 
He tore it up , and says I'll give you something better I'll give you a cowhide . 
I never see such a son . 
I bet I'll take some o' these frills out o' you before I'm done with you . 
Why , there ain't no end to your airs they say you're rich . 
Hey ? how's that ? They lie that's how . 
Looky here mind how you talk to me I'm a standing about all I can stand now so don't gimme no sass . 
I've been in town two days , and I hain't heard nothing but about you bein' rich . 
I heard about it away down the river , too . 
You git me that money to morrow I want it . 
I hain't got no money . 
I hain't got no money , I tell you . 
You ask Judge Thatcher he'll tell you the same . 
I'll ask him and I'll make him pungle , too , or I'll know the reason why . 
Say , how much you got in your pocket ? I want it . 
I hain't got only a dollar , and I want that to It don't make no difference what you want it for you just shell it out . 
So Judge Thatcher and the widow had to quit on the business . 
That pleased the old man till he couldn't rest . 
He said he'd cowhide me till I was black and blue if I didn't raise some money for him . 
But he said HE was satisfied said he was boss of his son , and he'd make it warm for HIM . 
When he got out the new judge said he was a going to make a man of him . 
The old man said that what a man wanted that was down was sympathy , and the judge said it was so so they cried again . 
And when it was bedtime the old man rose up and held out his hand , and says Look at it , gentlemen and ladies all take a hold of it shake it . 
You mark them words don't forget I said them . 
It's a clean hand now shake it don't be afeard . 
So they shook it , one after the other , all around , and cried . 
The judge's wife she kissed it . 
Then the old man he signed a pledge made his mark . 
The judge said it was the holiest time on record , or something like that . 
And when they come to look at that spare room they had to take soundings before they could navigate it . 
The judge he felt kind of sore . 
He said he reckoned a body could reform the old man with a shotgun , maybe , but he didn't know no other way . 
He catched me a couple of times and thrashed me , but I went to school just the same , and dodged him or outrun him most of the time . 
I didn't want to go to school much before , but I reckoned I'd go now to spite pap . 
Every time he got money he got drunk and every time he got drunk he raised Cain around town and every time he raised Cain he got jailed . 
He was just suited this kind of thing was right in his line . 
He got to hanging around the widow's too much and so she told him at last that if he didn't quit using around there she would make trouble for him . 
Well , WASN'T he mad ? He said he would show who was Huck Finn's boss . 
He kept me with him all the time , and I never got a chance to run off . 
We lived in that old cabin , and he always locked the door and put the key under his head nights . 
He had a gun which he had stole , I reckon , and we fished and hunted , and that was what we lived on . 
It was kind of lazy and jolly , laying off comfortable all day , smoking and fishing , and no books nor study . 
I didn't want to go back no more . 
I had stopped cussing , because the widow didn't like it but now I took to it again because pap hadn't no objec tions . 
It was pretty good times up in the woods there , take it all around . 
But by and by pap got too handy with his hick'ry , and I couldn't stand it . 
I was all over welts . 
He got to going away so much , too , and locking me in . 
Once he locked me in and was gone three days . 
I judged he had got drowned , and I wasn't ever going to get out any more . 
I made up my mind I would fix up some way to leave there . 
I had tried to get out of that cabin many a time , but I couldn't find no way . 
There warn't a window to it big enough for a dog to get through . 
I couldn't get up the chimbly it was too narrow . 
The door was thick , solid oak slabs . 
But this time I found something at last I found an old rusty wood saw without any handle it was laid in between a rafter and the clapboards of the roof . 
I greased it up and went to work . 
I got under the table and raised the blanket , and went to work to saw a section of the big bottom log out big enough to let me through . 
Well , it was a good long job , but I was getting towards the end of it when I heard pap's gun in the woods . 
I got rid of the signs of my work , and dropped the blanket and hid my saw , and pretty soon pap come in . 
Pap warn't in a good humor so he was his natural self . 
He said he was down town , and everything was going wrong . 
This shook me up considerable , because I didn't want to go back to the widow's any more and be so cramped up and sivilized , as they called it . 
He said he would like to see the widow get me . 
That made me pretty uneasy again , but only for a minute I reckoned I wouldn't stay on hand till he got that chance . 
The old man made me go to the skiff and fetch the things he had got . 
I toted up a load , and went back and set down on the bow of the skiff to rest . 
I thought it all over , and I reckoned I would walk off with the gun and some lines , and take to the woods when I run away . 
I judged I would saw out and leave that night if pap got drunk enough , and I reckoned he would . 
I got so full of it I didn't notice how long I was staying till the old man hollered and asked me whether I was asleep or drownded . 
I got the things all up to the cabin , and then it was about dark . 
While I was cooking supper the old man took a swig or two and got sort of warmed up , and went to ripping again . 
He had been drunk over in town , and laid in the gutter all night , and he was a sight to look at . 
A body would a thought he was Adam he was just all mud . 
Whenever his liquor begun to work he most always went for the govment . 
his time he says Call this a govment ! why , just look at it and see what it's like . 
And they call THAT govment ! That ain't all , nuther . 
The law backs that old Judge Thatcher up and helps him to keep me out o' my property . 
They call that govment ! A man can't get his rights in a govment like this . 
Sometimes I've a mighty notion to just leave the country for good and all . 
Yes , and I TOLD 'em so I told old Thatcher so to his face . 
Lots of 'em heard me , and can tell what I said . 
Says I , for two cents I'd leave the blamed country and never come a near it agin . 
Look at it , says I such a hat for me to wear one of the wealthiest men in this town if I could git my rights . 
Oh , yes , this is a wonderful govment , wonderful . 
There was a free nigger there from Ohio a mulatter , most as white as a white man . 
And what do you think ? They said he was a p'fessor in a college , and could talk all kinds of languages , and knowed everything . 
And that ain't the wust . 
They said he could VOTE when he was at home . 
Well , that let me out . 
I says I'll never vote agin . 
Them's the very words I said they all heard me and the country may rot for all me I'll never vote agin as long as I live . 
And to see the cool way of that nigger why , he wouldn't a give me the road if I hadn't shoved him out o' the way . 
I says to the people , why ain't this nigger put up at auction and sold ? that's what I want to know . 
And what do you reckon they said ? Why , they said he couldn't be sold till he'd been in the State six months , and he hadn't been there that long yet . 
There , now that's a specimen . 
They call that a govment that can't sell a free nigger till he's been in the State six months . 
He said so his own self after wards . 
He had heard old Sowberry Hagan in his best days , and he said it laid over him , too but I reckon that was sort of piling it on , maybe . 
After supper pap took the jug , and said he had enough whisky there for two drunks and one delirium tremens . 
That was always his word . 
I judged he would be blind drunk in about an hour , and then I would steal the key , or saw myself out , one or t'other . 
He drank and drank , and tumbled down on his blankets by and by but luck didn't run my way . 
He didn't go sound asleep , but was uneasy . 
He groaned and moaned and thrashed around this way and that for a long time . 
I don't know how long I was asleep , but all of a sudden there was an awful scream and I was up . 
There was pap looking wild , and skipping around every which way and yelling about snakes . 
He said they was crawling up his legs and then he would give a jump and scream , and say one had bit him on the cheek but I couldn't see no snakes . 
He wore out by and by , and laid still a while , moaning . 
Then he laid stiller , and didn't make a sound . 
I could hear the owls and the wolves away off in the woods , and it seemed terri ble still . 
He was laying over by the corner . 
By and by he raised up part way and listened , with his head to one side . 
He says , very low Tramp tramp tramp that's the dead tramp tramp tramp they're coming after me but I won't go . 
Oh , they're here ! don't touch me don't ! hands off they're cold let go . 
I could hear him through the blanket . 
By and by he rolled out and jumped up on his feet looking wild , and he see me and went for me . 
I begged , and told him I was only Huck but he laughed SUCH a screechy laugh , and roared and cussed , and kept on chasing me up . 
Pretty soon he was all tired out , and dropped down with his back against the door , and said he would rest a minute and then kill me . 
He put his knife under him , and said he would sleep and get strong , and then he would see who was who . 
So he dozed off pretty soon . 
By and by I got the old split bottom chair and clumb up as easy as I could , not to make any noise , and got down the gun . 
And how slow and still the time did drag along . 
RGIT up ! What you 'bout ? I opened my eyes and looked around , trying to make out where I was . 
It was after sun up , and I had been sound asleep . 
Pap was standing over me looking sourQand sick , too . 
Why didn't you roust me out ? Well , I tried to , but I couldn't I couldn't budge you . 
Don't stand there palavering all day , but out with you and see if there's a fish on the lines for breakfast . 
I'll be along in a minute . 
He unlocked the door , and I cleared out up the river bank . 
I noticed some pieces of limbs and such things floating down , and a sprinkling of bark so I knowed the river had begun to rise . 
I reckoned I would have great times now if I was over at the town . 
I went along up the bank with one eye out for pap and t'other one out for what the rise might fetch along . 
Well , all at once here comes a canoe just a beauty , too , about thirteen or fourteen foot long , riding high like a duck . 
I shot head first off of the bank like a frog , clothes and all on , and struck out for the canoe . 
But it warn't so this time . 
It was a drift canoe sure enough , and I clumb in and paddled her ashore . 
Thinks I , the old man will be glad when he sees this she's worth ten dollars . 
So he hadn't seen anything . 
When he got along I was hard at it taking up a trot line . 
He abused me a little for being so slow but I told him I fell in the river , and that was what made me so long . 
I knowed he would see I was wet , and then he would be asking questions . 
We got five catfish off the lines and went home . 
Next time you roust me out , you hear ? Then he dropped down and went to sleep again but what he had been saying give me the very idea I wanted . 
I says to myself , I can fix it now so nobody won't think of following me . 
About twelve o'clock we turned out and went along up the bank . 
The river was coming up pretty fast , and lots of driftwood going by on the rise . 
By and by along comes part of a log raft nine logs fast together . 
We went out with the skiff and towed it ashore . 
Anybody but pap would a waited and seen the day through , so as to catch more stuff but that warn't pap's style . 
Nine logs was enough for one time he must shove right over to town and sell . 
So he locked me in and took the skiff , and started off towing the raft about half past three . 
I judged he wouldn't come back that night . 
I waited till I reckoned he had got a good start then I out with my saw , and went to work on that log again . 
Before he was t'other side of the river I was out of the hole him and his raft was just a speck on the water away off yonder . 
I took fish lines and matches and other things everything that was worth a cent . 
I cleaned out the place . 
I wanted an axe , but there wasn't any , only the one out at the woodpile , and I knowed why I was going to leave that . 
I fetched out the gun , and now I was done . 
I had wore the ground a good deal crawling out of the hole and dragging out so many things . 
So I fixed that as good as I could from the outside by scattering dust on the place , which covered up the smoothness and the sawdust . 
It was all grass clear to the canoe , so I hadn't left a track . 
I followed around to see . 
I stood on the bank and looked out over the river . 
I shot this fel low and took him into camp . 
I took the axe and smashed in the door . 
I beat it and hacked it considerable a doing it . 
You could easy see that something had been dragged over the ground . 
I did wish Tom Sawyer was there I knowed he would take an interest in this kind of business , and throw in the fancy touches . 
Nobody could spread himself like Tom Sawyer in such a thing as that . 
Well , last I pulled out some of my hair , and blooded the axe good , and stuck it on the back side , and slung the axe in the corner . 
till I got a good piece below the house and then dumped him into the river . 
Now I thought of some thing else . 
So I went and got the bag of meal and my old saw out of the canoe , and fetched them to the house . 
There was a slough or a creek leading out of it on the other side that went miles away , I don't know where , but it didn't go to the river . 
The meal sifted out and made a little track all the way to the lake . 
I dropped pap's whetstone there too , so as to look like it had been done by accident . 
Then I tied up the rip in the meal sack with a string , so it wouldn't leak no more , and took it and my saw to the canoe again . 
It was about dark now so I dropped the canoe down the river under some willows that hung over the bank , and waited for the moon to rise . 
I made fast to a willow then I took a bite to eat , and by and by laid down in the canoe to smoke a pipe and lay out a plan . 
I says to myself , they'll follow the track of that sack ful of rocks to the shore and then drag the river for me . 
And they'll follow that meal track to the lake and go browsing down the creek that leads out of it to find the robbers that killed me and took the things . 
They won't ever hunt the river for anything but my dead carcass . 
They'll soon get tired of that , and won't bother no more about me . 
All right I can stop anywhere I want to . 
Jackson's Island is good enough for me I know that island pretty well , and nobody ever comes there . 
And then I can paddle over to town nights , and slink around and pick up things I want . 
I was pretty tired , and the first thing I knowed I was asleep . 
When I woke up I didn't know where I was for a minute . 
I set up and looked around , a little scared . 
The river looked miles and miles across . 
The moon was so bright I could a counted the drift logs that went a slipping along , black and still , hundreds of yards out from shore . 
Every thing was dead quiet , and it looked late , and SMELT late . 
You know what I mean I don't know the words to put it in . 
I took a good gap and a stretch , and was just going to unhitch and start when I heard a sound away over the water . 
Pretty soon I made it out . 
It was that dull kind of a regular sound that comes from oars working in rowlocks when it's a still night . 
I peeped out through the willow branches , and there it was a skiff , away across the water . 
I couldn't tell how many was in it . 
It kept a coming , and when it was abreast of me I see there warn't but one man in it . 
Think's I , maybe it's pap , though I warn't expecting him . 
Well , it WAS pap , sure enough and sober , too , by the way he laid his oars . 
I didn't lose no time . 
The next minute I was a spinning down stream soft but quick in the shade of the bank . 
I got out amongst the driftwood , and then laid down in the bottom of the canoe and let her float . 
I laid there , and had a good rest and a smoke out of my pipe , looking away into the sky not a cloud in it . 
The sky looks ever so deep when you lay down on your back in the moonshine I never knowed it before . 
And how far a body can hear on the water such nights ! I heard people talking at the ferry land ing . 
I heard what they said , too every word of it . 
One man said it was getting towards the long days and the short nights now . 
I heard one man say it was nearly three o'clock , and he hoped daylight wouldn't wait more than about a week longer . 
I was away below the ferry now . 
There warn't any signs of the bar at the head it was all under water now . 
It didn't take me long to get there . 
I shot past the head at a ripping rate , the current was so swift , and then I got into the dead water and landed on the side towards the Illinois shore . 
A monstrous big lumber raft was about a mile up stream , coming along down , with a lantern in the middle of it . 
There was a little gray in the sky now so I stepped into the woods , and laid down for a nap before break fast . 
THE sun was up so high when I waked that I judged it was after eight o'clock . 
I laid there in the grass and the cool shade thinking about things , and feeling rested and ruther comfortable and satisfied . 
I could see the sun out at one or two holes , but mostly it was big trees all about , and gloomy in there amongst them . 
There was freckled places on the ground where the light sifted down through the leaves , and the freckled places swapped about a little , showing there was a little breeze up there . 
A couple of squirrels set on a limb and jabbered at me very friendly . 
I was powerful lazy and comfortable didn't want to get up and cook breakfast . 
Well , I was dozing off again when I thinks I hears a deep sound of boom ! away up the river . 
I rouses up , and rests on my elbow and listens pretty soon I hears it again . 
And there was the ferryboat full of people floating along down . 
I knowed what was the matter now . 
Boom ! I see the white smoke squirt out of the ferryboat's side . 
You see , they was firing cannon over the water , trying to make my carcass come to the top . 
I was pretty hungry , but it warn't going to do for me to start a fire , because they might see the smoke . 
So I set there and watched the cannon smoke and listened to the boom . 
Well , then I happened to think how they always put quicksilver in loaves of bread and float them off , because they always go right to the drownded carcass and stop there . 
So , says I , I'll keep a lookout , and if any of them's floating around after me I'll give them a show . 
I changed to the Illinois edge of the island to see what luck I could have , and I warn't disappointed . 
A big double loaf come along , and I most got it with a long stick , but my foot slipped and she floated out further . 
Of course I was where the current set in the closest to the shore I knowed enough for that . 
But by and by along comes another one , and this time I won . 
I took out the plug and shook out the little dab of quick silver , and set my teeth in . 
It was baker's bread what the quality eat none of your low down corn pone . 
I got a good place amongst the leaves , and set there on a log , munching the bread and watching the ferry boat , and very well satisfied . 
And then something struck me . 
I says , now I reckon the widow or the parson or somebody prayed that this bread would find me , and here it has gone and done it . 
I lit a pipe and had a good long smoke , and went on watching . 
Where the log forked I could peep through . 
By and by she come along , and she drifted in so close that they could a run out a plank and walked ashore . 
Most everybody was on the boat . 
Pap , and Judge Thatcher , and Bessie Thatcher , and Jo Harper , and Tom Sawyer , and his old Aunt Polly , and Sid and Mary , and plenty more . 
I hope so , anyway . 
They all crowded up and leaned over the rails , nearly in my face , and kept still , watch ing with all their might . 
I could see them first rate , but they couldn't see me . 
If they'd a had some bullets in , I reckon they'd a got the corpse they was after . 
Well , I see I warn't hurt , thanks to goodness . 
The boat floated on and went out of sight around the shoulder of the island . 
I could hear the booming now and then , further and further off , and by and by , after an hour , I didn't hear it no more . 
The island was three mile long . 
I judged they had got to the foot , and was giving it up . 
But they didn't yet a while . 
They turned around the foot of the island and started up the channel on the Mis souri side , under steam , and booming once in a while as they went . 
I crossed over to that side and watched them . 
When they got abreast the head of the island they quit shooting and dropped over to the Missouri shore and went home to the town . 
I knowed I was all right now . 
Nobody else would come a hunting after me . 
I got my traps out of the canoe and made me a nice camp in the thick woods . 
I made a kind of a tent out of my blankets to put my things under so the rain couldn't get at them . 
I catched a catfish and haggled him open with my saw , and towards sundown I started my camp fire and had supper . 
Then I set out a line to catch some fish for breakfast . 
And so for three days and nights . 
No difference just the same thing . 
But the next day I went explor ing around down through the island . 
I was boss of it it all belonged to me , so to say , and I wanted to know all about it but mainly I wanted to put in the time . 
I found plenty strawberries , ripe and prime and green summer grapes , and green razberries and the green blackberries was just beginning to show . 
They would all come handy by and by , I judged . 
Well , I went fooling along in the deep woods till I judged I warn't far from the foot of the island . 
I had my gun along , but I hadn't shot nothing it was for protection thought I would kill some game nigh home . 
I clipped along , and all of a sudden I bounded right on to the ashes of a camp fire that was still smoking . 
My heart jumped up amongst my lungs . 
I never waited for to look further , but uncocked my gun and went sneaking back on my tiptoes as fast as ever I could . 
Every now and then I stopped a second amongst the thick leaves and listened , but my breath come so hard I couldn't hear nothing else . 
I slunk along an other piece further , then listened again and so on , and so on . 
When I got to camp I warn't feeling very brash , there warn't much sand in my craw but I says , this ain't no time to be fooling around . 
I reckon I was up in the tree two hours but I didn't see nothing , I didn't hear nothing I only THOUGHT I heard and seen as much as a thousand things . 
Well , I couldn't stay up there forever so at last I got down , but I kept in the thick woods and on the lookout all the time . 
All I could get to eat was berries and what was left over from breakfast . 
By the time it was night I was pretty hungry . 
So when it was good and dark I slid out from shore before moonrise and paddled over to the Illinois bank about a quarter of a mile . 
I got everything into the canoe as quick as I could , and then went creeping through the woods to see what I could find out . 
I hadn't got far when I hear a man say We better camp here if we can find a good place the horses is about beat out . 
I didn't wait , but shoved out and paddled away easy . 
I tied up in the old place , and reckoned I would sleep in the canoe . 
I couldn't , somehow , for thinking . 
And every time I waked up I thought somebody had me by the neck . 
So the sleep didn't do me no good . 
Well , I felt better right off . 
So I took my paddle and slid out from shore just a step or two , and then let the canoe drop along down amongst the shadows . 
The moon was shining , and out side of the shadows it made it most as light as day . 
I poked along well on to an hour , everything still as rocks and sound asleep . 
Well , by this time I was most down to the foot of the island . 
A little ripply , cool breeze begun to blow , and that was as good as saying the night was about done . 
I give her a turn with the paddle and brung her nose to shore then I got my gun and slipped out and into the edge of the woods . 
I sat down there on a log , and looked out through the leaves . 
I see the moon go off watch , and the darkness begin to blanket the river . 
But in a little while I see a pale streak over the treetops , and knowed the day was coming . 
So I took my gun and slipped off towards where I had run across that camp fire , stopping every minute or two to listen . 
But I hadn't no luck somehow I couldn't seem to find the place . 
But by and by , sure enough , I catched a glimpse of fire away through the trees . 
I went for it , cautious and slow . 
By and by I was close enough to have a look , and there laid a man on the ground . 
It most give me the fantods . 
He had a blanket around his head , and his head was nearly in the fire . 
I set there behind a clump of bushes in about six foot of him , and kept my eyes on him steady . 
It was getting gray daylight now . 
Pretty soon he gapped and stretched himself and hove off the blanket , and it was Miss Watson's Jim ! I bet I was glad to see him . 
I says Hello , Jim ! and skipped out . 
He bounced up and stared at me wild . 
Then he drops down on his knees , and puts his hands together and says Doan' hurt me don't ! I hain't ever done no harm to a ghos' . 
I alwuz liked dead people , en done all I could for 'em . 
You go en git in de river agin , whah you b'longs , en doan' do nuffn to Ole Jim , 'at 'uz awluz yo' fren' . 
Well , I warn't long making him understand I warn't dead . 
I was ever so glad to see Jim . 
I warn't lone some now . 
I told him I warn't afraid of HIM telling the people where I was . 
I talked along , but he only set there and looked at me never said nothing . 
Then I says It's good daylight . 
Make up your camp fire good . 
What's de use er makin' up de camp fire to cook strawbries en sich truck ? But you got a gun , hain't you ? Den we kin git sumfn better den strawbries . 
Strawberries and such truck , I says . 
Is that what you live on ? I couldn' git nuffn else , he says . 
Why , how long you been on the island , Jim ? I come heah de night arter you's killed . 
What , all that time ? Yes indeedy . 
And ain't you had nothing but that kind of rub bage to eat ? No , sah nuffn else . 
Well , you must be most starved , ain't you ? I reck'n I could eat a hoss . 
How long you ben on de islan' ? Since the night I got killed . 
No ! W'y , what has you lived on ? But you got a gun . 
Oh , yes , you got a gun . 
Now you kill sumfn en I'll make up de fire . 
I catched a good big catfish , too , and Jim cleaned him with his knife , and fried him . 
When breakfast was ready we lolled on the grass and eat it smoking hot . 
Jim laid it in with all his might , for he was most about starved . 
Then when we had got pretty well stuffed , we laid off and lazied . 
He said Tom Sawyer couldn't get up no better plan than what I had . 
Then I says How do you come to be here , Jim , and how'd you get here ? He looked pretty uneasy , and didn't say nothing for a minute . 
Then he says Maybe I better not tell . 
Why , Jim ? Well , dey's reasons . 
But you wouldn' tell on me ef I uz to tell you , would you , Huck ? Blamed if I would , Jim . 
Well , I b'lieve you , Huck . 
Jim ! But mind , you said you wouldn' tell you know you said you wouldn' tell , Huck . 
I said I wouldn't , and I'll stick to it . 
Honest INJUN , I will . 
People would call me a low down Abolitionist and despise me for keeping mum but that don't make no difference . 
I ain't a going to tell , and I ain't a going back there , anyways . 
So , now , le's know all about it . 
Well , you see , it 'uz dis way . 
Ole missus dat's Miss Watson she pecks on me all de time , en treats me pooty rough , but she awluz said she wouldn' sell me down to Orleans . 
But I noticed dey wuz a nigger trader roun' de place considable lately , en I begin to git oneasy . 
De widder she try to git her to say she wouldn' do it , but I never waited to hear de res' . 
I lit out mighty quick , I tell you . 
Well , I wuz dah all night . 
Dey wuz somebody roun' all de time . 
Dese las' skifts wuz full o' ladies en genlmen a goin' over for to see de place . 
Sometimes dey'd pull up at de sho' en take a res' b'fo' dey started acrost , so by de talk I got to know all 'bout de killin' . 
I 'uz powerful sorry you's killed , Huck , but I ain't no mo' now . 
I laid dah under de shavin's all day . 
De yuther servants wouldn' miss me , kase dey'd shin out en take holiday soon as de ole folks 'uz out'n de way . 
Well , when it come dark I tuck out up de river road , en went 'bout two mile er more to whah dey warn't no houses . 
I'd made up my mine 'bout what I's agwyne to do . 
So I says , a raff is what I's arter it doan' MAKE no track . 
Den I swum to de stern uv it en tuck a holt . 
It clouded up en 'uz pooty dark for a little while . 
So I clumb up en laid down on de planks . 
De men 'uz all 'way yonder in de middle , whah de lantern wuz . 
But I didn' have no luck . 
Well , I had a notion I could lan' mos' anywhers , but I couldn't bank too bluff . 
I 'uz mos' to de foot er de islan' b'fo' I found' a good place . 
I went into de woods en jedged I wouldn' fool wid raffs no mo' , long as dey move de lantern roun' so . 
I had my pipe en a plug er dog leg , en some matches in my cap , en dey warn't wet , so I 'uz all right . 
You've had to keep in the woods all the time , of course . 
Did you hear 'em shooting the cannon ? Oh , yes . 
I knowed dey was arter you . 
I see um go by heah watched um thoo de bushes . 
Some young birds come along , flying a yard or two at a time and lighting . 
Jim said it was a sign it was going to rain . 
He said it was a sign when young chickens flew that way , and so he reckoned it was the same way when young birds done it . 
I was going to catch some of them , but Jim wouldn't let me . 
He said it was death . 
He said his father laid mighty sick once , and some of them catched a bird , and his old granny said his father would die , and he did . 
And Jim said you mustn't count the things you are going to cook for dinner , because that would bring bad luck . 
The same if you shook the table cloth after sundown . 
Jim said bees wouldn't sting idiots but I didn't believe that , be cause I had tried them lots of times myself , and they wouldn't sting me . 
I had heard about some of these things before , but not all of them . 
Jim knowed all kinds of signs . 
He said he knowed most everything . 
I said it looked to me like all the signs was about bad luck , and so I asked him if there warn't any good luck signs . 
He says Mighty few an' DEY ain't no use to a body . 
Well , dey's some use in a sign like dat , 'kase it's so fur ahead . 
Wunst I had foteen dollars , but I tuck to specalat'n' , en got busted out . 
What did you speculate in , Jim ? Well , fust I tackled stock . 
What kind of stock ? Why , live stock cattle , you know . 
I put ten dollars in a cow . 
But I ain' gwyne to resk no mo' money in stock . 
De cow up 'n' died on my han's . 
So you lost the ten dollars . 
No , I didn't lose it all . 
I on'y los' 'bout nine of it . 
I sole de hide en taller for a dollar en ten cents . 
You had five dollars and ten cents left . 
Did you speculate any more ? Yes . 
Well , all de niggers went in , but dey didn't have much . 
I wuz de on'y one dat had much . 
So I stuck out for mo' dan fo' dollars , en I said 'f I didn' git it I'd start a bank my sef . 
Den I reck'n'd I'd inves' de thirty five dollars right off en keep things a movin' . 
So dey didn' none uv us git no money . 
But he's lucky , dey say , en I see I warn't lucky . 
De dream say let Balum inves' de ten cents en he'd make a raise for me . 
So Balum he tuck en give de ten cents to de po' , en laid low to see what wuz gwyne to come of it . 
Well , what did come of it , Jim ? Nuffn never come of it . 
I couldn' manage to k'leck dat money no way en Balum he couldn' . 
I ain' gwyne to len' no mo' money 'dout I see de security . 
Well , it's all right anyway , Jim , long as you're going to be rich again some time or other . 
Yes en I's rich now , come to look at it . 
I owns mysef , en I's wuth eight hund'd dollars . 
I wisht I had de money , I wouldn' want no mo' . 
This place was a tolerable long , steep hill or ridge about forty foot high . 
We had a rough time getting to the top , the sides was so steep and the bushes so thick . 
We tramped and clumb around all over it , and by and by found a good big cavern in the rock , most up to the top on the side towards Illinois . 
The cavern was as big as two or three rooms bunched together , and Jim could stand up straight in it . 
It was cool in there . 
Jim was for putting our traps in there right away , but I said we didn't want to be climbing up and down there all the time . 
Then we hunted up a place close by to hide the canoe in , amongst the thick willows . 
We took some fish off of the lines and set them again , and begun to get ready for dinner . 
So we built it there and cooked dinner . 
We spread the blankets inside for a carpet , and eat our dinner in there . 
We put all the other things handy at the back of the cavern . 
Pretty soon it darkened up , and begun to thunder and lighten so the birds was right about it . 
Directly it begun to rain , and it rained like all fury , too , and I never see the wind blow so . 
It was one of these regular summer storms . 
Jim , this is nice , I says . 
I wouldn't want to be nowhere else but here . 
Pass me along another hunk of fish and some hot corn bread . 
Well , you wouldn't a ben here 'f it hadn't a ben for Jim . 
You'd a ben down dah in de woods widout any dinner , en gittn' mos' drownded , too dat you would , honey . 
Chickens knows when it's gwyne to rain , en so do de birds , chile . 
The river went on raising and raising for ten or twelve days , till at last it was over the banks . 
The water was three or four foot deep on the island in the low places and on the Illinois bottom . 
Daytimes we paddled all over the island in the canoe , It was mighty cool and shady in the deep woods , even if the sun was blazing outside . 
We went winding in and out amongst the trees , and sometimes the vines hung so thick we had to back away and go some other way . 
The ridge our cavern was in was full of them . 
We could a had pets enough if we'd wanted them . 
One night we catched a little section of a lumber raft nice pine planks . 
It was twelve foot wide and about fifteen or sixteen foot long , and the top stood above water six or seven inches a solid , level floor . 
We could see saw logs go by in the daylight some times , but we let them go we didn't show ourselves in daylight . 
Another night when we was up at the head of the island , just before daylight , here comes a frame house down , on the west side . 
She was a two story , and tilted over considerable . 
We paddled out and got aboard clumb in at an upstairs window . 
But it was too dark to see yet , so we made the canoe fast and set in her to wait for daylight . 
The light begun to come before we got to the foot of the island . 
Then we looked in at the window . 
There was something laying on the floor in the far corner that looked like a man . 
So Jim says Hello , you ! But it didn't budge . 
So I hollered again , and then Jim says De man ain't asleep he's dead . 
You hold still I'll go en see . 
He went , and bent down and looked , and says It's a dead man . 
Yes , indeedy naked , too . 
He's ben shot in de back . 
I reck'n he's ben dead two er three days . 
Come in , Huck , but doan' look at his face it's too gashly . 
I didn't look at him at all . 
Jim throwed some old rags over him , but he needn't done it I didn't want to see him . 
There was two old dirty calico dresses , and a sun bonnet , and some women's underclothes hanging against the wall , and some men's clothing , too . 
We put the lot into the canoe it might come good . 
There was a boy's old speckled straw hat on the floor I took that , too . 
And there was a bottle that had had milk in it , and it had a rag stopper for a baby to suck . 
We would a took the bottle , but it was broke . 
There was a seedy old chest , and an old hair trunk with the hinges broke . 
They stood open , but there warn't nothing left in them that was any account . 
The way things was scattered about we reckoned the people left in a hurry , and warn't fixed so as to carry off most of their stuff . 
And so , take it all around , we made a good haul . 
I paddled over to the Illinois shore , and drifted down most a half a mile doing it . 
I crept up the dead water under the bank , and hadn't no accidents and didn't see nobody . 
We got home all safe . 
CHAPTER X. AFTER breakfast I wanted to talk about the dead man and guess out how he come to be killed , but Jim didn't want to . 
We rummaged the clothes we'd got , and found eight dollars in silver sewed up in the lining of an old blanket overcoat . 
Jim said he reckoned the people in that house stole the coat , because if they'd a knowed the money was there they wouldn't a left it . 
I said I reckoned they killed him , too but Jim didn't want to talk about that . 
Well , here's your bad luck ! We've raked in all this truck and eight dollars besides . 
I wish we could have some bad luck like this every day , Jim . 
Never you mind , honey , never you mind . 
Don't you git too peart . 
Mind I tell you , it's a comin' . 
It did come , too . 
It was a Tuesday that we had that talk . 
Well , after dinner Friday we was laying around in the grass at the upper end of the ridge , and got out of tobacco . 
I went to the cavern to get some , and found a rattlesnake in there . 
I killed him , and curled him up on the foot of Jim's blanket , ever so natural , thinking there'd be some fun when Jim found him there . 
He jumped up yelling , and the first thing the light showed was the varmint curled up and ready for another spring . 
I laid him out in a second with a stick , and Jim grabbed pap's whisky jug and begun to pour it down . 
He was barefooted , and the snake bit him right on the heel . 
That all comes of my being such a fool as to not remember that wherever you leave a dead snake its mate always comes there and curls around it . 
Jim told me to chop off the snake's head and throw it away , and then skin the body and roast a piece of it . 
I done it , and he eat it and said it would help cure him . 
He made me take off the rattles and tie them around his wrist , too . 
He said that that would help . 
Jim was laid up for four days and nights . 
Then the swelling was all gone and he was around again . 
I made up my mind I wouldn't ever take a holt of a snake skin again with my hands , now that I see what had come of it . 
Jim said he reckoned I would believe him next time . 
And he said that handling a snake skin was such awful bad luck that maybe we hadn't got to the end of it yet . 
He said he druther see the new moon over his left shoulder as much as a thousand times than take up a snake skin in his hand . 
But anyway it all come of looking at the moon that way , like a fool . 
We couldn't handle him , of course he would a flung us into Illinois . 
We just set there and watched him rip and tear around till he drownded . 
We found a brass button in his stomach and a round ball , and lots of rubbage . 
We split the ball open with the hatchet , and there was a spool in it . 
Jim said he'd had it there a long time , to coat it over so and make a ball of it . 
It was as big a fish as was ever catched in the Mississippi , I reckon . 
Jim said he hadn't ever seen a bigger one . 
He would a been worth a good deal over at the village . 
They peddle out such a fish as that by the pound in the market house there everybody buys some of him his meat's as white as snow and makes a good fry . 
Next morning I said it was getting slow and dull , and I wanted to get a stirring up some way . 
I said I reckoned I would slip over the river and find out what was going on . 
Jim liked that notion but he said I must go in the dark and look sharp . 
Then he studied it over and said , couldn't I put on some of them old things and dress up like a girl ? That was a good notion , too . 
So we shortened up one of the calico gowns , and I turned up my trouser legs to my knees and got into it . 
Jim hitched it behind with the hooks , and it was a fair fit . 
Jim said nobody would know me , even in the daytime , hardly . 
I took notice , and done better . 
I started up the Illinois shore in the canoe just after dark . 
I started across to the town from a little below the ferry landing , and the drift of the current fetched me in at the bottom of the town . 
I tied up and started along the bank . 
There was a light burning in a little shanty that hadn't been lived in for a long time , and I wondered who had took up quarters there . 
I slipped up and peeped in at the window . 
There was a woman about forty year old in there knitting by a candle that was on a pine table . 
I didn't know her face she was a stranger , for you couldn't start a face in that town that I didn't know . 
Now this was lucky , because I was weakening I was getting afraid I had come people might know my voice and find me out . 
COME in , says the woman , and I did . 
She says Take a cheer . 
She looked me all over with her little shiny eyes , and says What might your name be ? Sarah Williams . 
Where 'bouts do you live ? In this neighbor hood ? No'm . 
In Hookerville , seven mile below . 
I've walked all the way and I'm all tired out . 
Hungry , too , I reckon . 
No'm , I ain't hungry . 
I was so hungry I had to stop two miles below here at a farm so I ain't hungry no more . 
It's what makes me so late . 
My mother's down sick , and out of money and everything , and I come to tell my uncle Abner Moore . 
He lives at the upper end of the town , she says . 
I hain't ever been here before . 
Do you know him ? No but I don't know everybody yet . 
I haven't lived here quite two weeks . 
It's a considerable ways to the upper end of the town . 
You better stay here all night . 
No , I says I'll rest a while , I reckon , and go on . 
I ain't afeared of the dark . 
and all about pap and what a hard lot he was , and what a hard lot I was , and at last she got down to where I was murdered . 
I says Who done it ? We've heard considerable about these goings on down in Hookerville , but we don't know who 'twas that killed Huck Finn . 
Well , I reckon there's a right smart chance of people HERE that'd like to know who killed him . 
Some think old Finn done it himself . 
No is that so ? Most everybody thought it at first . 
He'll never know how nigh he come to getting lynched . 
But before night they changed around and judged it was done by a runaway nigger named Jim . 
I reckoned I better keep still . 
She run on , and never noticed I had put in at all The nigger run off the very night Huck Finn was killed . 
So there's a reward out for him three hun dred dollars . 
And there's a reward out for old Finn , too two hundred dollars . 
Before night they wanted to lynch him , but he was gone , you see . 
Well , next day they found out the nigger was gone they found out he hadn't ben seen sence ten o'clock the night the murder was done . 
People do say he warn't any too good to do it . 
Oh , he's sly , I reckon . 
If he don't come back for a year he'll be all right . 
You can't prove anything on him , you know everything will be quieted down then , and he'll walk in Huck's money as easy as nothing . 
Yes , I reckon so , 'm . 
I don't see nothing in the way of it . 
Has everybody guit thinking the nigger done it ? Oh , no , not everybody . 
A good many thinks he done it . 
But they'll get the nigger pretty soon now , and maybe they can scare it out of him . 
I'm one of them but I hain't talked it around . 
Don't any body live there ? says I. No , nobody , says they . 
I didn't say any more , but I done some thinking . 
I hain't seen any smoke sence , so I reckon maybe he's gone , if it was him but husband's going over to see him and another man . 
He was gone up the river but he got back to day , and I told him as soon as he got here two hours ago . 
I had got so uneasy I couldn't set still . 
I had to do something with my hands so I took up a needle off of the table and went to threading it . 
My hands shook , and I was making a bad job of it . 
When the woman stopped talking I looked up , and she was looking at me pretty curious and smiling a little . 
I put down the needle and thread , and let on to be interested and I was , too and says Three hundred dollars is a power of money . 
I wish my mother could get it . 
Is your husband going over there to night ? Oh , yes . 
He went up town with the man I was telling you of , to get a boat and see if they could borrow another gun . 
They'll go over after midnight . 
Couldn't they see better if they was to wait till daytime ? Yes . 
I didn't think of that . 
The woman kept looking at me pretty curious , and I didn't feel a bit comfortable . 
Pretty soon she says What did you say your name was , honey ? M Mary Williams . 
I wished the woman would say something more the longer she set still the uneasier I was . 
But now she says Honey , I thought you said it was Sarah when you first come in ? Oh , yes'm , I did . 
Some calls me Sarah , some calls me Mary . 
Oh , that's the way of it ? Yes'm . 
I was feeling better then , but I wished I was out of there , anyway . 
I couldn't look up yet . 
She was right about the rats . 
You'd see one stick his nose out of a hole in the corner every little while . 
She said she had to have things handy to throw at them when she was alone , or they wouldn't give her no peace . 
But she watched for a chance , and directly banged away at a rat but she missed him wide , and said Ouch ! it hurt her arm so . 
Then she told me to try for the next one . 
I wanted to be getting away before the old man got back , but of course I didn't let on . 
I got the thing , and the first rat that showed his nose I let drive , and if he'd a stayed where he was he'd a been a tolerable sick rat . 
She said that was first rate , and she reckoned I would hive the next one . 
She went and got the lump of lead and fetched it back , and brought along a hank of yarn which she wanted me to help her with . 
I held up my two hands and she put the hank over them , and went on talking about her and her husband's matters . 
But she broke off to say Keep your eye on the rats . 
You better have the lead in your lap , handy . 
So she dropped the lump into my lap just at that moment , and I clapped my legs together on it and she went on talking . 
But only about a minute . 
But I says Please to don't poke fun at a poor girl like me , mum . 
If I'm in the way here , I'll No , you won't . 
Set down and stay where you are . 
I ain't going to hurt you , and I ain't going to tell on you , nuther . 
You just tell me your secret , and trust me . 
I'll keep it and , what's more , I'll help you . 
So'll my old man if you want him to . 
You see , you're a runaway 'prentice , that's all . 
There ain't no harm in it . 
You've been treated bad , and you made up your mind to cut . 
Bless you , child , I wouldn't tell on you . 
Tell me all about it now , that's a good boy . 
I traveled nights , and hid daytimes and slept , and the bag of bread and meat I carried from home lasted me all the way , and I had a plenty . 
I said I believed my uncle Abner Moore would take care of me , and so that was why I struck out for this town of Goshen . 
Goshen , child ? This ain't Goshen . 
Goshen's ten mile further up the river . 
Who told you this was Goshen ? Why , a man I met at daybreak this morning , just as I was going to turn into the woods for my regular sleep . 
He told me when the roads forked I must take the right hand , and five mile would fetch me to Goshen . 
He was drunk , I reckon . 
He told you just ex actly wrong . 
Well , , he did act like he was drunk , but it ain't no matter now . 
I got to be moving along . 
I'll fetch Goshen before daylight . 
I'll put you up a snack to eat . 
Which end gets up first ? The hind end , mum . 
Well , then , a horse ? The for'rard end , mum . 
Which side of a tree does the moss grow on ? North side . 
If fifteen cows is browsing on a hillside , how many of them eats with their heads pointed the same direction ? The whole fifteen , mum . 
Well , I reckon you HAVE lived in the country . 
I thought maybe you was trying to hocus me again . 
What's your real name , now ? George Peters , mum . 
Well , try to remember it , George . 
Don't forget and tell me it's Elexander before you go , and then get out by saying it's George Elexander when I catch you . 
And don't go about women in that old calico . 
You do a girl tolerable poor , but you might fool men , maybe . 
Why , I spotted you for a boy when you was threading the needle and I contrived the other things just to make certain . 
Keep the river road all the way , and next time you tramp take shoes and socks with you . 
The river road's a rocky one , and your feet'll be in a condition when you get to Goshen , I reckon . 
I went up the bank about fifty yards , and then I doubled on my tracks and slipped back to where my canoe was , a good piece below the house . 
I jumped in , and was off in a hurry . 
I went up stream far enough to make the head of the island , and then started across . 
I took off the sun bonnet , for I didn't want no blinders on then . 
When I was about the middle I heard the clock begin to strike , so I stops and listens the sound come faint over the water but clear eleven . 
Then I jumped in the canoe and dug out for our place , a mile and a half below , as hard as I could go . 
I landed , and slopped through the timber and up the ridge and into the cavern . 
There Jim laid , sound asleep on the ground . 
I roused him out and says Git up and hump yourself , Jim ! There ain't a minute to lose . 
They're after us ! Jim never asked no questions , he never said a word but the way he worked for the next half an hour showed about how he was scared . 
By that time every thing we had in the world was on our raft , and she was ready to be shoved out from the willow cove where she was hid . 
We put out the camp fire at the cavern the first thing , and didn't show a candle outside after that . 
Then we got out the raft and slipped along down in the shade , past the foot of the island dead still never saying a word . 
IT must a been close on to one o'clock when we got below the island at last , and the raft did seem to go mighty slow . 
We was in ruther too much of a sweat to think of so many things . 
It warn't good judgment to put EVERYTHING on the raft . 
If the men went to the island I just expect they found the camp fire I built , and watched it all night for Jim to come . 
Anyways , they stayed away from us , and if my building the fire never fooled them it warn't no fault of mine . 
I played it as low down on them as I could . 
A tow head is a sandbar that has cottonwoods on it as thick as harrow teeth . 
We laid there all day , and watched the rafts and steamboats spin down the Missouri shore , and up bound steamboats fight the big river in the middle . 
So I said I didn't care what was the reason they didn't get us as long as they didn't . 
We made an extra steering oar , too , because one of the others might get broke on a snag or something . 
This second night we run between seven and eight hours , with a current that was making over four mile an hour . 
We catched fish and talked , and we took a swim now and then to keep off sleepiness . 
We had mighty good weather as a general thing , and noth ing ever happened to us at all that night , nor the next , nor the next . 
Every night we passed towns , some of them away up on black hillsides , nothing but just a shiny bed of lights not a house could you see . 
The fifth night we passed St . 
Louis , and it was like the whole world lit up . 
Petersburg they used to say there was twenty or thirty thousand people in St . 
Louis , but I never believed it till I see that wonderful spread of lights at two o'clock that still night . 
There warn't a sound there everybody was asleep . 
I never see pap when he didn't want the chicken himself , but that is what he used to say , anyway . 
Mornings before daylight I slipped into cornfields and borrowed a watermelon , or a mushmelon , or a punkin , or some new corn , or things of that kind . 
But towards daylight we got it all settled satisfactory , and concluded to drop crabapples and p'simmons . 
We warn't feeling just right before that , but it was all comfortable now . 
I was glad the way it come out , too , because crabapples ain't ever good , and the p'simmons wouldn't be ripe for two or three months yet . 
We shot a water fowl now and then that got up too early in the morning or didn't go to bed early enough in the evening . 
Take it all round , we lived pretty high . 
The fifth night below St . 
Louis we had a big storm after midnight , with a power of thunder and lightning , and the rain poured down in a solid sheet . 
We stayed in the wigwam and let the raft take care of itself . 
When the lightning glared out we could see a big straight river ahead , and high , rocky bluffs on both sides . 
By and by says I , Hel LO , Jim , looky yon der ! It was a steamboat that had killed herself on a rock . 
We was drifting straight down for her . 
The lightning showed her very distinct . 
I wanted to get aboard of her and slink around a little , and see what there was there . 
So I says Le's land on her , Jim . 
But Jim was dead against it at first . 
He says I doan' want to go fool'n 'long er no wrack . 
We's doin' blame' well , en we better let blame' well alone , as de good book says . 
Like as not dey's a watchman on dat wrack . 
And besides , I says , we might borrow something worth having out of the captain's stateroom . 
Seegars , I bet you and cost five cents apiece , solid cash . 
Steamboat captains is always rich , and get sixty dollars a month , and THEY don't care a cent what a thing costs , you know , long as they want it . 
Stick a candle in your pocket I can't rest , Jim , till we give her a rummaging . 
Do you reckon Tom Sawyer would ever go by this thing ? Not for pie , he wouldn't . 
He'd call it an adventure that's what he'd call it and he'd land on that wreck if it was his last act . 
And wouldn't he throw style into it ? wouldn't he spread himself , nor nothing ? Why , you'd think it was Christopher C'lumbus discovering Kingdom Come . 
I wish Tom Sawyer WAS here . 
Jim he grumbled a little , but give in . 
He said we mustn't talk any more than we could help , and then talk mighty low . 
The lightning showed us the wreck again just in time , and we fetched the stabboard derrick , and made fast there . 
The deck was high out here . 
You've acted this way before . 
You always want more'n your share of the truck , and you've always got it , too , because you've swore 't if you didn't you'd tell . 
But this time you've said it jest one time too many . 
You're the meanest , treacherousest hound in this country . 
By this time Jim was gone for the raft . 
And every time he said that the man with the lantern would laugh and say 'Deed you AIN'T ! You never said no truer thing 'n that , you bet you . 
And once he said Hear him beg ! and yit if we hadn't got the best of him and tied him he'd a killed us both . 
And what FOR ? Jist for noth'n . 
Jist because we stood on our RIGHTS that's what for . 
But I lay you ain't a goin' to threaten nobody any more , Jim Turner . 
Put UP that pistol , Bill . 
Bill says I don't want to , Jake Packard . 
Bless yo' heart for them words , Jake Packard ! I'll never forgit you long's I live ! says the man on the floor , sort of blubbering . 
Packard didn't take no notice of that , but hung up his lantern on a nail and started towards where I was there in the dark , and motioned Bill to come . 
The man came a pawing along in the dark , and when Packard got to my stateroom , he says Here come in here . 
And in he come , and Bill after him . 
But before they got in I was up in the upper berth , cornered , and sorry I come . 
Then they stood there , with their hands on the ledge of the berth , and talked . 
I couldn't see them , but I could tell where they was by the whisky they'd been having . 
I was glad I didn't drink whisky but it wouldn't made much difference anyway , because most of the time they couldn't a treed me because I didn't breathe . 
And , besides , a body COULDN'T breathe and hear such talk . 
They talked low and earnest . 
Bill wanted to kill Turner . 
He says He's said he'll tell , and he will . 
If we was to give both our shares to him NOW it wouldn't make no difference after the row and the way we've served him . 
Shore's you're born , he'll turn State's evidence now you hear ME . 
I'm for putting him out of his troubles . 
So'm I , says Packard , very quiet . 
Blame it , I'd sorter begun to think you wasnUt . 
Well , then , that's all right . 
Le's go and do it . 
Hold on a minute I hain't had my say yit . 
Shooting's good , but there's quieter ways if the thing's GOT to be done . 
Ain't that so ? You bet it is . 
Now I say it ain't a goin' to be more'n two hours befo' this wrack breaks up and washes off down the river . 
See ? He'll be drownded , and won't have nobody to blame for it but his own self . 
I reckon that's a considerble sight better 'n killin' of him . 
I'm unfavorable to killin' a man as long as you can git aroun' it it ain't good sense , it ain't good morals . 
Ain't I right ? Yes , I reck'n you are . 
But s'pose she DON'T break up and wash off ? Well , we can wait the two hours anyway and see , can't we ? All right , then come along . 
So they started , and I lit out , all in a cold sweat , and scrambled forward . 
But if we find their boat we can put ALL of 'em in a bad fix for the sheriff 'll get 'em . 
Quick hurry ! I'll hunt the labboard side , you hunt the stabboard . 
WELL , I catched my breath and most fainted . 
Shut up on a wreck with such a gang as that ! But it warn't no time to be sentimentering . 
We'd GOT to find that boat now had to have it for ourselves . 
So we went a quaking and shaking down the stabboard side , and slow work it was , too seemed a week be fore we got to the stern . 
No sign of a boat . 
Jim said he didn't believe he could go any further so scared he hadn't hardly any strength left , he said . 
But I said , come on , if we get left on this wreck we are in a fix , sure . 
So on we prowled again . 
When we got pretty close to the cross hall door there was the skiff , sure enough ! I could just barely see her . 
I felt ever so thankful . 
In another second I would a been aboard of her , but just then the door opened . 
Then Bill HE come out and got in . 
Packard says , in a low voice All ready shove off ! I couldn't hardly hang on to the shutters , I was so weak . 
But Bill says Hold on 'd you go through him ? No. Didn't you ? No. So he's got his share o' the cash yet . 
Well , then , come along no use to take truck and leave money . 
Say , won't he suspicion what we're up to ? Maybe he won't . 
But we got to have it anyway . 
So they got out and went in . 
The door slammed to because it was on the careened side and in a half second I was in the boat , and Jim come tumbling after me . 
I out with my knife and cut the rope , and away we went ! We didn't touch an oar , and we didn't speak nor whisper , nor hardly even breathe . 
Then Jim manned the oars , and we took out after our raft . 
Now was the first time that I begun to worry about the men I reckon I hadn't had time to before . 
I begun to think how dreadful it was , even for mur derers , to be in such a fix . 
But that idea was a failure for pretty soon it begun to storm again , and this time worse than ever . 
The rain poured down , and never a light showed every body in bed , I reckon . 
We boomed along down the river , watching for lights and watching for our raft . 
It was the raft , and mighty glad was we to get aboard of it again . 
We seen a light now away down to the right , on shore . 
So I said I would go for it . 
The skiff was half full of plunder which that gang had stole there on the wreck . 
As I got down towards it three or four more showed up on a hillside . 
I closed in above the shore light , and laid on my oars and floated . 
As I went by I see it was a lantern hanging on the jackstaff of a double hull ferryboat . 
I skimmed around for the watchman , a wondering whereabouts he slept and by and by I found him roosting on the bitts forward , with his head down between his knees . 
I gave his shoulder two or three little shoves , and begun to cry . 
What's the trouble ? I says Pap , and mam , and sis , and Then I broke down . 
He says Oh , dang it now , DON'T take on so we all has to have our troubles , and this 'n 'll come out all right . 
What's the matter with 'em ? They're they're are you the watchman of the boat ? Yes , he says , kind of pretty well satisfied like . 
I'm the captain and the owner and the mate and the pilot and watchman and head deck hand and some times I'm the freight and passengers . 
What wreck ? Why , there ain't but one . 
What , you don't mean the Walter Scott ? Yes . 
Good land ! what are they doin' THERE , for gracious sakes ? Well , they didn't go there a purpose . 
Miss Hooker was a visiting up there to the town Yes , Booth's Landing go on . 
My George ! It's the beatenest thing I ever struck . 
And THEN what did you all do ? Well , we hollered and took on , but it's so wide there we couldn't make nobody hear . 
So pap said somebody got to get ashore and get help somehow . 
And don't you fool around any , because he'll want to know the news . 
Tell him I'll have his niece all safe before he can get to town . 
Hump yourself , now I'm a going up around the corner here to roust out my engineer . 
But take it all around , I was feel ing ruther comfortable on accounts of taking all this trouble for that gang , for not many would a done it . 
I wished the widow knowed about it . 
I judged she would be proud of me for helping these rapscallions , because rapscallions and dead beats is the kind the widow and good people takes the most interest in . 
Well , before long here comes the wreck , dim and dusky , sliding along down ! A kind of cold shiver went through me , and then I struck out for her . 
She was very deep , and I see in a minute there warn't much chance for anybody being alive in her . 
I pulled all around her and hollered a little , but there wasn't any answer all dead still . 
I felt a little bit heavy hearted about the gang , but not much , for I reckoned if they could stand it I could . 
It did seem a powerful long time before Jim's light showed up and when it did show it looked like it was a thousand mile off . 
We hadn't ever been this rich before in neither of our lives . 
We laid off all the afternoon in the woods talking , and me reading the books , and having a general good time . 
I told Jim all about what happened inside the wreck and at the ferryboat , and I said these kinds of things was adventures but he said he didn't want no more adventures . 
Well , he was right he was most always right he had an uncommon level head for a nigger . 
He says I didn' know dey was so many un um . 
I hain't hearn 'bout none un um , skasely , but ole King Soller mun , onless you counts dem kings dat's in a pack er k'yards . 
AIN' dat gay ? En what dey got to do , Huck ? THEY don't do nothing ! Why , how you talk ! They just set around . 
No is dat so ? Of course it is . 
They just set around except , maybe , when there's a war then they go to the war . 
Yes , says I , and other times , when things is dull , they fuss with the parlyment and if everybody don't go just so he whacks their heads off . 
But mostly they hang round the harem . 
Roun' de which ? Harem . 
What's de harem ? The place where he keeps his wives . 
Don't you know about the harem ? Solomon had one he had about a million wives . 
Why , yes , dat's so I I'd done forgot it . 
A harem's a bo'd'n house , I reck'n . 
Mos' likely dey has rackety times in de nussery . 
En I reck'n de wives quarrels considable en dat 'crease de racket . 
Yit dey say Sollermun de wises' man dat ever live' . 
I doan' take no stock in dat . 
Bekase why would a wise man want to live in de mids' er sich a blim blammin' all de time ? No 'deed he wouldn't . 
A wise man 'ud take en buil' a biler factry en den he could shet DOWN de biler factry when he want to res' . 
Well , but he WAS the wisest man , anyway be cause the widow she told me so , her own self . 
I doan k'yer what de widder say , he WARN'T no wise man nuther . 
He had some er de dad fetchedes' ways I ever see . 
Does you know 'bout dat chile dat he 'uz gwyne to chop in two ? Yes , the widow told me all about it . 
WELL , den ! Warn' dat de beatenes' notion in de worl' ? You jes' take en look at it a minute . 
Dah's de stump , dah dat's one er de women heah's you dat's de yuther one I's Sollermun en dish yer dollar bill's de chile . 
Bofe un you claims it . 
Dat's de way Sollermun was gwyne to do wid de chile . 
Now I want to ast you what's de use er dat half a bill ? can't buy noth'n wid it . 
En what use is a half a chile ? I wouldn' give a dern for a million un um . 
But hang it , Jim , you've clean missed the point blame it , you've missed it a thousand mile . 
Who ? Me ? Go 'long . 
Doan' talk to me 'bout yo' pints . 
I reck'n I knows sense when I sees it en dey ain' no sense in sich doin's as dat . 
Doan' talk to me 'bout Sollermun , Huck , I knows him by de back . 
But I tell you you don't get the point . 
Blame de point ! I reck'n I knows what I knows . 
En mine you , de REAL pint is down furder it's down deeper . 
It lays in de way Sollermun was raised . 
You take a man dat's got on'y one or two chillen is dat man gwyne to be waseful o' chillen ? No , he ain't he can't 'ford it . 
HE know how to value 'em . 
But you take a man dat's got 'bout five million chillen runnin' roun' de house , en it's diffunt . 
HE as soon chop a chile in two as a cat . 
A chile er two , mo' er less , warn't no consekens to Sollermun , dad fatch him ! I never see such a nigger . 
If he got a notion in his head once , there warn't no getting it out again . 
He was the most down on Solomon of any nigger I ever see . 
So I went to talking about other kings , and let Solomon slide . 
But some says he got out and got away , and come to America . 
Dat's good ! But he'll be pooty lonesome dey ain' no kings here , is dey , Huck ? No. Den he cain't git no situation . 
What he gwyne to do ? Well , I don't know . 
Some of them gets on the police , and some of them learns people how to talk French . 
Why , Huck , doan' de French people talk de same way we does ? NO , Jim you couldn't understand a word they said not a single word . 
Well , now , I be ding busted ! How do dat come ? I don't know but it's so . 
I got some of their jabber out of a book . 
I wouldn't 'low no nigger to call me dat . 
Shucks , it ain't calling you anything . 
It's only saying , do you know how to talk French ? Well , den , why couldn't he SAY it ? Why , he IS a saying it . 
That's a Frenchman's WAY of saying it . 
Well , it's a blame ridicklous way , en I doan' want to hear no mo' 'bout it . 
Dey ain' no sense in it . 
Looky here , Jim does a cat talk like we do ? No , a cat don't . 
Well , does a cow ? No , a cow don't , nuther . 
Does a cat talk like a cow , or a cow talk like a cat ? No , dey don't . 
It's natural and right for 'em to talk different from each other , ain't it ? Course . 
And ain't it natural and right for a cat and a cow to talk different from US ? Why , mos' sholy it is . 
Well , then , why ain't it natural and right for a FRENCHMAN to talk different from us ? You answer me that . 
Is a cat a man , Huck ? No. Well , den , dey ain't no sense in a cat talkin' like a man . 
Is a cow a man ? er is a cow a cat ? No , she ain't either of them . 
Well , den , she ain't got no business to talk like either one er the yuther of 'em . 
Is a Frenchman a man ? Yes . 
WE judged that three nights more would fetch us to Cairo , at the bottom of Illinois , where the Ohio River comes in , and that was what we was after . 
We would sell the raft and get on a steamboat and go way up the Ohio amongst the free States , and then be out of trouble . 
I jumped into the canoe and run back to the stern , and grabbed the paddle and set her back a stroke . 
I was in such a hurry I hadn't untied her . 
I got up and tried to untie her , but I was so excited my hands shook so I couldn't hardly do anything with them . 
As soon as I got started I took out after the raft , hot and heavy , right down the towhead . 
Away down there somewheres I hears a small whoop , and up comes my spirits . 
I went tearing after it , listening sharp to hear it again . 
The next time it come I see I warn't heading for it , but heading away to the right of it . 
Well , I fought along , and directly I hears the whoop BEHIND me . 
I was tangled good now . 
That was somebody else's whoop , or else I was turned around . 
I throwed the paddle down . 
I couldn't tell nothing about voices in a fog , for nothing don't look natural nor sound natural in a fog . 
In another second or two it was solid white and still again . 
I set perfectly still then , listening to my heart thump , and I reckon I didn't draw a breath while it thumped a hundred . 
I just give up then . 
I knowed what the matter was . 
That cut bank was an island , and Jim had gone down t'other side of it . 
It warn't no towhead that you could float by in ten minutes . 
It had the big timber of a regular island it might be five or six miles long and more than half a mile wide . 
I kept quiet , with my ears cocked , about fifteen minutes , I reckon . 
I was floating along , of course , four or five miles an hour but you don't ever think of that . 
If you think it ain't dismal and lone some out in a fog that way by yourself in the night , you try it once you'll see . 
You never knowed a sound dodge around so , and swap places so quick and so much . 
Well , I seemed to be in the open river again by and by , but I couldn't hear no sign of a whoop nowheres . 
I reckoned Jim had fetched up on a snag , maybe , and it was all up with him . 
I was good and tired , so I laid down in the canoe and said I wouldn't bother no more . 
I didn't want to go to sleep , of course but I was so sleepy I couldn't help it so I thought I would take jest one little cat nap . 
First I didn't know where I was I thought I was dreaming and when things began to come back to me they seemed to come up dim out of last week . 
I looked away down stream , and seen a black speck on the water . 
I took after it but when I got to it it warn't nothing but a couple of sawlogs made fast together . 
Then I see another speck , and chased that then another , and this time I was right . 
When I got to it Jim was setting there with his head down between his knees , asleep , with his right arm hanging over the steering oar . 
The other oar was smashed off , and the raft was littered up with leaves and branches and dirt . 
So she'd had a rough time . 
Lemme look at you chile , lemme feel o' you . 
HAIN'T you ben gone away ? Gone away ? Why , what in the nation do you mean ? I hain't been gone anywheres . 
Where would I go to ? Well , looky here , boss , dey's sumf'n wrong , dey is . 
Is I ME , or who IS I ? Is I heah , or whah IS I ? Now dat's what I wants to know . 
Well , I think you're here , plain enough , but I think you're a tangle headed old fool , Jim . 
What tow head ? I hain't see no tow head . 
Well , this is too many for me , Jim . 
I hain't seen no fog , nor no islands , nor no troubles , nor nothing . 
I been setting here talking with you all night till you went to sleep about ten minutes ago , and I reckon I done the same . 
You couldn't a got drunk in that time , so of course you've been dreaming . 
But , Huck , it's all jis' as plain to me as It don't make no difference how plain it is there ain't nothing in it . 
I know , because I've been here all the time . 
Jim didn't say nothing for about five minutes , but set there studying over it . 
Then he says Well , den , I reck'n I did dream it , Huck but dog my cats ef it ain't de powerfullest dream I ever see . 
En I hain't ever had no dream b'fo' dat's tired me like dis one . 
Oh , well , that's all right , because a dream does tire a body like everything sometimes . 
But this one was a staving dream tell me all about it , Jim . 
So Jim went to work and told me the whole thing right through , just as it happened , only he painted it up considerable . 
Then he said he must start in and 'terpret it , because it was sent for a warning . 
He said the first towhead stood for a man that would try to do us some good , but the current was another man that would get us away from him . 
It had clouded up pretty dark just after I got on to the raft , but it was clearing up again now . 
You could see them first rate now . 
Jim looked at the trash , and then looked at me , and back at the trash again . 
He had got the dream fixed so strong in his head that he couldn't seem to shake it loose and get the facts back into its place again right away . 
But when he did get the thing straightened around he looked at me steady without ever smiling , and says What do dey stan' for ? I'se gwyne to tell you . 
En all you wuz thinkin' 'bout wuz how you could make a fool uv ole Jim wid a lie . 
Dat truck dah is TRASH en trash is what people is dat puts dirt on de head er dey fren's en makes 'em ashamed . 
Then he got up slow and walked to the wigwam , and went in there without saying anything but that . 
It made me feel so mean I could almost kissed HIS foot to get him to take it back . 
It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble myself to a nigger but I done it , and I warn't ever sorry for it afterwards , neither . 
I didn't do him no more mean tricks , and I wouldn't done that one if I'd a knowed it would make him feel that way . 
WE slept most all day , and started out at night , a little ways behind a monstrous long raft that was as long going by as a procession . 
She had four long sweeps at each end , so we judged she carried as many as thirty men , likely . 
She had five big wigwams aboard , wide apart , and an open camp fire in the mid dle , and a tall flag pole at each end . 
There was a power of style about her . 
It AMOUNTED to something being a raftsman on such a craft as that . 
We went drifting down into a big bend , and the night clouded up and got hot . 
The river was very wide , and was walled with solid timber on both sides you couldn't see a break in it hardly ever , or a light . 
We talked about Cairo , and wondered whether we would know it when we got to it . 
But I said maybe we might think we was passing the foot of an island and coming into the same old river again . 
That disturbed Jim and me too . 
Jim thought it was a good idea , so we took a smoke on it and waited . 
There warn't nothing to do now but to look out sharp for the town , and not pass it without seeing it . 
Every little while he jumps up and says Dah she is ? But it warn't . 
It was Jack o' lanterns , or lightning bugs so he set down again , and went to watching , same as before . 
Jim said it made him all over trembly and feverish to be so close to freedom . 
I couldn't get that out of my con science , no how nor no way . 
It got to troubling me so I couldn't rest I couldn't stay still in one place . 
It hadn't ever come home to me before , what this thing was that I was doing . 
But now it did and it stayed with me , and scorched me more and more . 
That was so I couldn't get around that noway . 
That was where it pinched . 
I got to feeling so mean and so miserable I most wished I was dead . 
I fidgeted up and down the raft , abusing myself to myself , and Jim was fidgeting up and down past me . 
We neither of us could keep still . 
Every time he danced around and says , Dah's Cairo ! it went through me like a shot , and I thought if it WAS Cairo I reckoned I would die of miserableness . 
Jim talked out loud all the time while I was talking to myself . 
It most froze me to hear such talk . 
He wouldn't ever dared to talk such talk in his life before . 
Just see what a difference it made in him the minute he judged he was about free . 
It was according to the old saying , Give a nigger an inch and he'll take an ell . 
Thinks I , this is what comes of my not thinking . 
I was sorry to hear Jim say that , it was such a lowering of him . 
I felt easy and happy and light as a feather right off . 
All my troubles was gone . 
I went to looking out sharp for a light , and sort of sing ing to myself . 
By and by one showed . 
It mightn't be , you know . 
Jim won't ever forgit you , Huck you's de bes' fren' Jim's ever had en you's de ONLY fren' ole Jim's got now . 
I was paddling off , all in a sweat to tell on him but when he says this , it seemed to kind of take the tuck all out of me . 
I went along slow then , and I warn't right down certain whether I was glad I started or whether I warn't . 
When I was fifty yards off , Jim says Dah you goes , de ole true Huck de on'y white genlman dat ever kep' his promise to ole Jim . 
Well , I just felt sick . 
But I says , I GOT to do it I can't get OUT of it . 
Right then along comes a skiff with two men in it with guns , and they stopped and I stopped . 
One of them says What's that yonder ? A piece of a raft , I says . 
Do you belong on it ? Yes , sir . 
Any men on it ? Only one , sir . 
Well , there's five niggers run off to night up yon der , above the head of the bend . 
Is your man white or black ? I didn't answer up prompt . 
I tried to , but the words wouldn't come . 
I tried for a second or two to brace up and out with it , but I warn't man enough hadn't the spunk of a rabbit . 
I see I was weakening so I just give up trying , and up and says He's white . 
I reckon we'll go and see for ourselves . 
I wish you would , says I , because it's pap that's there , and maybe you'd help me tow the raft ashore where the light is . 
He's sick and so is mam and Mary Ann . 
Oh , the devil ! we're in a hurry , boy . 
But I s'pose we've got to . 
Come , buckle to your paddle , and let's get along . 
I buckled to my paddle and they laid to their oars . 
When we had made a stroke or two , I says Pap'll be mighty much obleeged to you , I can tell you . 
Everybody goes away when I want them to help me tow the raft ashore , and I can't do it by myself . 
Well , that's infernal mean . 
Say , boy , what's the matter with your father ? It's the a the well , it ain't anything much . 
It warn't but a mighty little ways to the raft now . 
One says Boy , that's a lie . 
What IS the matter with your pap ? Answer up square now , and it'll be the better for you . 
I will , sir , I will , honest but don't leave us , please . 
It's the the Gentlemen , if you'll only pull ahead , and let me heave you the headline , you won't have to come a near the raft please do . 
Set her back , John , set her back ! says one . 
Keep away , boy keep to looard . 
Confound it , I just expect the wind has blowed it to us . 
Your pap's got the small pox , and you know it precious well . 
Poor devil , there's something in that . 
We are right down sorry for you , but we well , hang it , we don't want the small pox , you see . 
Look here , I'll tell you what to do . 
Don't you try to land by your self , or you'll smash everything to pieces . 
You float along down about twenty miles , and you'll come to a town on the left hand side of the river . 
It will be long after sun up then , and when you ask for help you tell them your folks are all down with chills and fever . 
Don't be a fool again , and let people guess what is the matter . 
Now we're trying to do you a kindness so you just put twenty miles between us , that's a good boy . 
It wouldn't do any good to land yonder where the light is it's only a wood yard . 
Say , I reckon your father's poor , and I'm bound to say he's in pretty hard luck . 
Here , I'll put a twenty dollar gold piece on this board , and you get it when it floats by . 
Good bye , boy you do as Mr. Parker told you , and you'll be all right . 
That's so , my boy good bye , good bye . 
If you see any runaway niggers you get help and nab them , and you can make some money by it . 
Good bye , sir , says I I won't let no runaway niggers get by me if I can help it . 
So I reckoned I wouldn't bother no more about it , but after this always do whichever come handiest at the time . 
I went into the wigwam Jim warn't there . 
I looked all around he warn't anywhere . 
I says Jim ! Here I is , Huck . 
Is dey out o' sight yit ? Don't talk loud . 
He was in the river under the stern oar , with just his nose out . 
I told him they were out of sight , so he come aboard . 
He says I was a listenin' to all de talk , en I slips into de river en was gwyne to shove for sho' if dey come aboard . 
Den I was gwyne to swim to de raf' agin when dey was gone . 
Then we talked about the money . 
It was a pretty good raise twenty dollars apiece . 
Jim said we could take deck passage on a steamboat now , and the money would last us as far as we wanted to go in the free States . 
He said twenty mile more warn't far for the raft to go , but he wished we was already there . 
Towards daybreak we tied up , and Jim was mighty particular about hiding the raft good . 
Then he worked all day fixing things in bundles , and getting all ready to quit rafting . 
That night about ten we hove in sight of the lights of a town away down in a left hand bend . 
I went off in the canoe to ask about it . 
Pretty soon I found a man out in the river with a skiff , setting a trot line . 
I ranged up and says Mister , is that town Cairo ? Cairo ? no . 
You must be a blame' fool . 
What town is it , mister ? If you want to know , go and find out . 
If you stay here botherin' around me for about a half a minute longer you'll get something you won't want . 
I paddled to the raft . 
Jim was awful disappointed , but I said never mind , Cairo would be the next place , I reckoned . 
We passed another town before daylight , and I was going out again but it was high ground , so I didn't go . 
No high ground about Cairo , Jim said . 
We laid up for the day on a towhead tolerable close to the left hand bank . 
I begun to suspicion something . 
I says Maybe we went by Cairo in the fog that night . 
He says Doan' le's talk about it , Huck . 
Po' niggers can't have no luck . 
I awluz 'spected dat rattlesnake skin warn't done wid its work . 
I wish I'd never seen that snake skin , Jim I do wish I'd never laid eyes on it . 
It ain't yo' fault , Huck you didn' know . 
Don't you blame yo'self 'bout it . 
When it was daylight , here was the clear Ohio water inshore , sure enough , and outside was the old regular Muddy ! So it was all up with Cairo . 
We talked it all over . 
It wouldn't do to take to the shore we couldn't take the raft up the stream , of course . 
There warn't no way but to wait for dark , and start back in the canoe and take the chances . 
There warn't anything to say . 
We warn't going to borrow it when there warn't anybody around , the way pap would do , for that might set people after us . 
So we shoved out after dark on the raft . 
The place to buy canoes is off of rafts laying up at shore . 
But we didn't see no rafts laying up so we went along during three hours and more . 
Well , the night got gray and ruther thick , which is the next meanest thing to fog . 
You can't tell the shape of the river , and you can't see no distance . 
It got to be very late and still , and then along comes a steamboat up the river . 
We lit the lantern , and judged she would see it . 
We could hear her pounding along , but we didn't see her good till she was close . 
She aimed right for us . 
Well , here she comes , and we said she was going to try and shave us but she didn't seem to be sheering off a bit . 
I dived and I aimed to find the bottom , too , for a thirty foot wheel had got to go over me , and I wanted it to have plenty of room . 
I could always stay under water a minute this time I reckon I stayed under a minute and a half . 
Then I bounced for the top in a hurry , for I was nearly busting . 
I popped out to my armpits and blowed the water out of my nose , and puffed a bit . 
It was one of these long , slanting , two mile cross ings so I was a good long time in getting over . 
I made a safe landing , and clumb up the bank . 
IN about a minute somebody spoke out of a window without putting his head out , and says Be done , boys ! Who's there ? I says It's me . 
Who's me ? George Jackson , sir . 
What do you want ? I don't want nothing , sir . 
I only want to go along by , but the dogs won't let me . 
What are you prowling around here this time of night for hey ? I warn't prowling around , sir , I fell overboard off of the steamboat . 
Oh , you did , did you ? Strike a light there , some body . 
What did you say your name was ? George Jackson , sir . 
Look here , if you're telling the truth you needn't be afraid nobody'll hurt you . 
But don't try to budge stand right where you are . 
Rouse out Bob and Tom , some of you , and fetch the guns . 
George Jackson , is there anybody with you ? No , sir , nobody . 
I heard the people stirring around in the house now , and see a light . 
The man sung out Snatch that light away , Betsy , you old fool ain't you got any sense ? Put it on the floor behind the front door . 
Bob , if you and Tom are ready , take your places . 
Now , George Jackson , do you know the Shepherd sons ? No , sir I never heard of them . 
Well , that may be so , and it mayn't . 
Step forward , George Jackson . 
And mind , don't you hurry come mighty slow . 
If there's any body with you , let him keep back if he shows him self he'll be shot . 
Come slow push the door open yourself just enough to squeeze in , d' you hear ? I didn't hurry I couldn't if I'd a wanted to . 
I took one slow step at a time and there warn't a sound , only I thought I could hear my heart . 
The dogs were as still as the humans , but they followed a little behind me . 
When I got to the three log doorsteps I heard them unlocking and unbarring and unbolting . 
I put my hand on the door and pushed it a little and a little more till somebody said , There , that's enough put your head in . 
I done it , but I judged they would take it off . 
The old gentleman says There I reckon it's all right . 
They held the candle , and took a good look at me , and all said , Why , HE ain't a Shepherdson no , there ain't any Shepherdson about him . 
Then the old man said he hoped I wouldn't mind being searched for arms , because he didn't mean no harm by it it was only to make sure . 
So he didn't pry into my pockets , but only felt outside with his hands , and said it was all right . 
Buck , take this little stranger and get the wet clothes off from him and dress him up in some of yours that's dry . 
Buck looked about as old as me thirteen or four teen or along there , though he was a little bigger than me . 
He hadn't on anything but a shirt , and he was very frowzy headed . 
He came in gaping and digging one fist into his eyes , and he was dragging a gun along with the other one . 
He says Ain't they no Shepherdsons around ? They said , no , 'twas a false alarm . 
Well , he says , if they'd a ben some , I reckon I'd a got one . 
They all laughed , and Bob says Why , Buck , they might have scalped us all , you've been so slow in coming . 
Well , nobody come after me , and it ain't right I'm always kept down I don't get no show . 
Never mind , Buck , my boy , says the old man , you'll have show enough , all in good time , don't you fret about that . 
Go 'long with you now , and do as your mother told you . 
When we got up stairs to his room he got me a coarse shirt and a roundabout and pants of his , and I put them on . 
I said I didn't know I hadn't heard about it before , no way . 
Well , guess , he says . 
How'm I going to guess , says I , when I never heard tell of it before ? But you can guess , can't you ? It's just as easy . 
WHICH candle ? I says . 
Why , any candle , he says . 
We can just have booming times they don't have no school now . 
Do you own a dog ? I've got a dog and he'll go in the river and bring out chips that you throw in . 
Do you like to comb up Sundays , and all that kind of foolishness ? You bet I don't , but ma she makes me . 
Confound these ole britches ! I reckon I'd better put 'em on , but I'd ruther not , it's so warm . 
Are you all ready ? All right . 
Come along , old hoss . 
Cold corn pone , cold corn beef , butter and butter milk that is what they had for me down there , and there ain't nothing better that ever I've come across yet . 
Buck and his ma and all of them smoked cob pipes , except the nigger woman , which was gone , and the two young women . 
They all smoked and talked , and I eat and talked . 
The young women had quilts around them , and their hair down their backs . 
So they said I could have a home there as long as I wanted it . 
So I laid there about an hour trying to think , and when Buck waked up I says Can you spell , Buck ? Yes , he says . 
I bet you can't spell my name , says I. I bet you what you dare I can , says he . 
All right , says I , go ahead . 
G e o r g e J a x o n there now , he says . 
Well , says I , you done it , but I didn't think you could . 
It ain't no slouch of a name to spell right off without studying . 
It was a mighty nice family , and a mighty nice house , too . 
I hadn't seen no house out in the country before that was so nice and had so much style . 
It didn't have an iron latch on the front door , nor a wooden one with a buckskin string , but a brass knob to turn , the same as houses in town . 
There warn't no bed in the parlor , nor a sign of a bed but heaps of parlors in towns has beds in them . 
They had big brass dog irons that could hold up a saw log . 
They wouldn't took any money for her . 
Well , there was a big outlandish parrot on each side of the clock , made out of something like chalk , and painted up gaudy . 
There was a couple of big wild turkey wing fans spread out behind those things . 
This table had a cover made out of beautiful oilcloth , with a red and blue spread eagle painted on it , and a painted border all around . 
It come all the way from Philadelphia , they said . 
There was some books , too , piled up perfectly exact , on each corner of the table . 
One was a big family Bible full of pictures . 
One was Pilgrim's Progress , about a man that left his family , it didn't say why . 
I read considerable in it now and then . 
The statements was interesting , but tough . 
Another was Friendship's Offering , full of beautiful stuff and poetry but I didn't read the poetry . 
An other was Henry Clay's Speeches , and another was Dr . 
Gunn's Family Medicine , which told you all about what to do if a body was sick or dead . 
There was a hymn book , and a lot of other books . 
And there was nice split bottom chairs , and perfectly sound , too not bagged down in the middle and busted , like an old basket . 
They had pictures hung on the walls mainly Washingtons and Lafayettes , and battles , and High land Marys , and one called Signing the Declaration . 
There was some that they called crayons , which one of the daughters which was dead made her own self when she was only fifteen years old . 
They was different from any pictures I ever see before blacker , mostly , than is common . 
But I reckoned that with her disposition she was having a better time in the graveyard . 
Other times it was hid with a little curtain . 
The young woman in the picture had a kind of a nice sweet face , but there was so many arms it made her look too spidery , seemed to me . 
It was very good poetry . 
No whooping cough did rack his frame , Nor measles drear with spots Not these impaired the sacred name Of Stephen Dowling Bots . 
Despised love struck not with woe That head of curly knots , Nor stomach troubles laid him low , Young Stephen Dowling Bots . 
Then list with tearful eye , Whilst I his fate do tell . 
His soul did from this cold world fly By falling down a well . 
They got him out and emptied him Alas it was too late His spirit was gone for to sport aloft In the realms of the good and great . 
If Emmeline Grangerford could make poetry like that before she was fourteen , there ain't no telling what she could a done by and by . 
Buck said she could rattle off poetry like nothing . 
She didn't ever have to stop to think . 
He said she would slap down a line , and if she couldn't find anything to rhyme with it would just scratch it out and slap down another one , and go ahead . 
She warn't particular she could write about anything you choose to give her to write about just so it was sadful . 
Every time a man died , or a woman died , or a child died , she would be on hand with her tribute before he was cold . 
She warn't ever the same after that she never complained , but she kinder pined away and did not live long . 
I liked all that family , dead ones and all , and warn't going to let any thing come between us . 
They kept Emmeline's room trim and nice , and all the things fixed in it just the way she liked to have them when she was alive , and nobody ever slept there . 
The old lady took care of the room herself , though there was plenty of niggers , and she sewed there a good deal and read her Bible there mostly . 
The walls of all the rooms was plastered , and most had carpets on the floors , and the whole house was whitewashed on the outside . 
And warn't the cooking good , and just bushels of it too ! CHAPTER XVIII . 
GRANGERFORD was a gentleman , you see . 
He was a gentleman all over and so was his family . 
His forehead was high , and his hair was black and straight and hung to his shoulders . 
He carried a mahogany cane with a silver head to it . 
There warn't no frivolishness about him , not a bit , and he warn't ever loud . 
He was as kind as he could be you could feel that , you know , and so you had confidence . 
He didn't ever have to tell anybody to mind their manners everybody was always good mannered where he was . 
Everybody loved to have him around , too he was sunshine most always I mean he made it seem like good weather . 
When he turned into a cloudbank it was awful dark for half a minute , and that was enough there wouldn't nothing go wrong again for a week . 
Bob was the oldest and Tom next tall , beautiful men with very broad shoulders and brown faces , and long black hair and black eyes . 
They dressed in white linen from head to foot , like the old gentleman , and wore broad Panama hats . 
So was her sister , Miss Sophia , but it was a different kind . 
She was gentle and sweet like a dove , and she was only twenty . 
Each person had their own nigger to wait on them Buck too . 
My nigger had a monstrous easy time , be cause I warn't used to having anybody do anything for me , but Buck's was on the jump most of the time . 
This was all there was of the family now , but there used to be more three sons they got killed and Emmeline that died . 
The old gentleman owned a lot of farms and over a hundred niggers . 
These people was mostly kinfolks of the family . 
The men brought their guns with them . 
It was a hand some lot of quality , I tell you . 
There was another clan of aristocracy around there five or six families mostly of the name of Shep herdson . 
They was as high toned and well born and rich and grand as the tribe of Grangerfords . 
One day Buck and me was away out in the woods hunting , and heard a horse coming . 
We was crossing the road . 
Buck says Quick ! Jump for the woods ! We done it , and then peeped down the woods through the leaves . 
Pretty soon a splendid young man come galloping down the road , setting his horse easy and looking like a soldier . 
He had his gun across his pommel . 
I had seen him before . 
It was young Harney Shepherdson . 
I heard Buck's gun go off at my ear , and Harney's hat tumbled off from his head . 
He grabbed his gun and rode straight to the place where we was hid . 
We started through the woods on a run . 
We never stopped run ning till we got home . 
Why didn't you step into the road , my boy ? The Shepherdsons don't , father . 
Miss Charlotte she held her head up like a queen while Buck was telling his tale , and her nostrils spread and her eyes snapped . 
The two young men looked dark , but never said nothing . 
Miss Sophia she turned pale , but the color come back when she found the man warn't hurt . 
What did he do to you ? Him ? He never done nothing to me . 
Well , then , what did you want to kill him for ? Why , nothing only it's on account of the feud . 
What's a feud ? Why , where was you raised ? Don't you know what a feud is ? Never heard of it before tell me about it . 
But it's kind of slow , and takes a long time . 
Has this one been going on long , Buck ? Well , I should RECKON ! It started thirty year ago , or som'ers along there . 
What was the trouble about , Buck ? land ? I reckon maybe I don't know . 
Well , who done the shooting ? Was it a Granger ford or a Shepherdson ? Laws , how do I know ? It was so long ago . 
Has there been many killed , Buck ? Yes right smart chance of funerals . 
But they don't always kill . 
Pa's got a few buckshot in him but he don't mind it 'cuz he don't weigh much , any way . 
Bob's been carved up some with a bowie , and Tom's been hurt once or twice . 
Has anybody been killed this year , Buck ? Yes we got one and they got one . 
But he didn't git much chance to enjoy his luck , for inside of a week our folks laid HIM out . 
I reckon that old man was a coward , Buck . 
I reckon he WARN'T a coward . 
Not by a blame' sight . 
There ain't a coward amongst them Shepherd sons not a one . 
And there ain't no cowards amongst the Grangerfords either . 
Why , that old man kep' up his end in a fight one day for half an hour against three Grangerfords , and come out winner . 
No , sir if a body's out hunting for cowards he don't want to fool away any time amongst them Shep herdsons , becuz they don't breed any of that KIND . 
Next Sunday we all went to church , about three mile , everybody a horseback . 
The men took their guns along , so did Buck , and kept them between their knees or stood them handy against the wall . 
The Shepherdsons done the same . 
About an hour after dinner everybody was dozing around , some in their chairs and some in their rooms , and it got to be pretty dull . 
Buck and a dog was stretched out on the grass in the sun sound asleep . 
I went up to our room , and judged I would take a nap myself . 
If you notice , most folks don't go to church only when they've got to but a hog is different . 
Says I to myself , something's up it ain't natural for a girl to be in such a sweat about a Testament . 
So I give it a shake , and out drops a little piece of paper with HALF PAST TWO wrote on it with a pencil . 
I ransacked it , but couldn't find anything else . 
She was mighty red in the face for a minute , and her eyes lighted up , and it made her powerful pretty . 
I went off down to the river , studying over this thing , and pretty soon I noticed that my nigger was following along behind . 
Thinks I , that's mighty curious he said that yester day . 
He oughter know a body don't love water moccasins enough to go around hunting for them . 
What is he up to , anyway ? So I says All right trot ahead . 
I followed a half a mile then he struck out over the swamp , and waded ankle deep as much as another half mile . 
I's seed 'm befo' I don't k'yer to see 'em no mo' . 
Then he slopped right along and went away , and pretty soon the trees hid him . 
He nearly cried he was so glad , but he warn't sur prised . 
I ben a buyin' pots en pans en vittles , as I got a chanst , en a patchin' up de raf' nights when WHAT raft , Jim ? Our ole raf' . 
You mean to say our old raft warn't smashed all to flinders ? No , she warn't . 
She was tore up a good deal one en' of her was but dey warn't no great harm done , on'y our traps was mos' all los' . 
Dey's mighty good to me , dese niggers is , en whatever I wants 'm to do fur me I doan' have to ast 'm twice , honey . 
Dat Jack's a good nigger , en pooty smart . 
He ain't ever told me you was here told me to come , and he'd show me a lot of water moccasins . 
If anything happens HE ain't mixed up in it . 
He can say he never seen us together , and it 'll be the truth . 
I don't want to talk much about the next day . 
I reckon I'll cut it pretty short . 
I waked up about dawn , and was a going to turn over and go to sleep again when I noticed how still it was didn't seem to be anybody stirring . 
Next I noticed that Buck was up and gone . 
Well , I gets up , a wondering , and goes down stairs nobody around everything as still as a mouse . 
Well , den , Miss Sophia's run off ! 'deed she has . 
She run off in de night some time nobody don't know jis' when run off to get married to dat young Harney Shepherdson , you know leastways , so dey 'spec . 
De fambly foun' it out 'bout half an hour ago maybe a little mo' en' I TELL you dey warn't no time los' . 
I reck'n dey's gwyne to be mighty rough times . 
Buck went off 'thout waking me up . 
Well , I reck'n he DID ! Dey warn't gwyne to mix you up in it . 
Mars Buck he loaded up his gun en 'lowed he's gwyne to fetch home a Shepherdson or bust . 
Well , dey'll be plenty un 'm dah , I reck'n , en you bet you he'll fetch one ef he gits a chanst . 
I took up the river road as hard as I could put . 
By and by I begin to hear guns a good ways off . 
There was a wood rank four foot high a little ways in front of the tree , and first I was going to hide behind that but maybe it was luckier I didn't . 
Every time one of them showed himself on the river side of the woodpile he got shot at . 
The two boys was squatting back to back behind the pile , so they could watch both ways . 
By and by the men stopped cavorting around and yelling . 
They started riding towards the store then up gets one of the boys , draws a steady bead over the wood rank , and drops one of them out of his saddle . 
All the men jumped off of their horses and grabbed the hurt one and started to carry him to the store and that minute the two boys started on the run . 
They got half way to the tree I was in before the men noticed . 
Then the men see them , and jumped on their horses and took out after them . 
One of the boys was Buck , and the other was a slim young chap about nineteen years old . 
The men ripped around awhile , and then rode away . 
As soon as they was out of sight I sung out to Buck and told him . 
He didn't know what to make of my voice coming out of the tree at first . 
He told me to watch out sharp and let him know when the men come in sight again said they was up to some devilment or other wouldn't be gone long . 
I wished I was out of that tree , but I dasn't come down . 
would make up for this day yet . 
He said his father and his two brothers was killed , and two or three of the enemy . 
Said the Shepherdsons laid for them in ambush . 
Buck said his father and brothers ought to waited for their relations the Shepherdsons was too strong for them . 
I asked him what was be come of young Harney and Miss Sophia . 
He said they'd got across the river and was safe . 
I was glad of that but the way Buck did take on because he didn't manage to kill Harney that day he shot at him I hain't ever heard anything like it . 
I ain't a going to tell ALL that happened it would make me sick again if I was to do that . 
I wished I hadn't ever come ashore that night to see such things . 
I ain't ever going to get shut of them lots of times I dream about them . 
I stayed in the tree till it begun to get dark , afraid to come down . 
I was mighty downhearted so I made up my mind I wouldn't ever go anear that house again , because I reckoned I was to blame , somehow . 
I cried a little when I was covering up Buck's face , for he was mighty good to me . 
It was just dark now . 
I never went near the house , but struck through the woods and made for the swamp . 
The raft was gone ! My souls , but I was scared ! I couldn't get my breath for most a minute . 
Then I raised a yell . 
A voice not twenty five foot from me says Good lan' ! is dat you , honey ? Doan' make no noise . 
It was Jim's voice nothing ever sounded so good before . 
I run along the bank a piece and got aboard , and Jim he grabbed me and hugged me , he was so glad to see me . 
He says Laws bless you , chile , I 'uz right down sho' you's dead agin . 
Lawsy , I's mighty glad to git you back again , honey . 
I never felt easy till the raft was two mile below there and out in the middle of the Mississippi . 
Then we hung up our signal lantern , and judged that we was free and safe once more . 
I was powerful glad to get away from the feuds , and so was Jim to get away from the swamp . 
We said there warn't no home like a raft , after all . 
Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery , but a raft don't . 
You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft . 
TWO or three days and nights went by I reckon I might say they swum by , they slid along so quiet and smooth and lovely . 
Here is the way we put in the time . 
Then we set out the lines . 
Not a sound anywheres perfectly still just like the whole world was asleep , only sometimes the bullfrogs a cluttering , maybe . 
And afterwards we would watch the lonesome ness of the river , and kind of lazy along , and by and by lazy off to sleep . 
So we would put in the day , lazying around , listening to the stillness . 
Once there was a thick fog , and the rafts and things that went by was beating tin pans so the steamboats wouldn't run over them . 
Jim said he believed it was spirits but I says No spirits wouldn't say , 'Dern the dern fog . 
Sometimes we'd have that whole river all to ourselves for the longest time . 
It's lovely to live on a raft . 
Jim he allowed they was made , but I allowed they happened I judged it would have took too long to MAKE so many . 
We used to watch the stars that fell , too , and see them streak down . 
Jim allowed they'd got spoiled and was hove out of the nest . 
After midnight the people on shore went to bed , and then for two or three hours the shores was black no more sparks in the cabin windows . 
These sparks was our clock the first one that showed again meant morning was coming , so we hunted a place to hide and tie up right away . 
I thought I was a goner , for whenever anybody was after anybody I judged it was ME or maybe Jim . 
They wanted to jump right in , but I says Don't you do it . 
One of these fellows was about seventy or upwards , and had a bald head and very gray whiskers . 
He had an old long tailed blue jeans coat with slick brass buttons flung over his arm , and both of them had big , fat , ratty looking carpet bags . 
The other fellow was about thirty , and dressed about as ornery . 
After breakfast we all laid off and talked , and the first thing that come out was that these chaps didn't know one another . 
What got you into trouble ? says the baldhead to t'other chap . 
So I told you I was ex pecting trouble myself , and would scatter out WITH you . 
I didn't wait for no breakfast I warn't hungry . 
Old man , said the young one , I reckon we might double team it together what do you think ? I ain't undisposed . 
What's your lay ? I've done considerble in the doctoring way in my time . 
Preachin's my line , too , and workin' camp meetin's , and missionaryin' around . 
Nobody never said anything for a while then the young man hove a sigh and says Alas ! What 're you alassin' about ? says the bald head . 
To think I should have lived to be leading such a life , and be degraded down into such company . 
And he begun to wipe the corner of his eye with a rag . 
Dern your skin , ain't the company good enough for you ? says the baldhead , pretty pert and uppish . 
Yes , it IS good enough for me it's as good as I deserve for who fetched me so low when I was so high ? I did myself . 
I don't blame YOU , gentlemen far from it I don't blame anybody . 
Let the cold world do its worst one thing I know there's a grave somewhere for me . 
The world may go on just as it's always done , and take everything from me loved ones , property , everything but it can't take that . 
Some day I'll lie down in it and for get it all , and my poor broken heart will be at rest . 
He went on a wiping . 
Drot your pore broken heart , says the baldhead what are you heaving your pore broken heart at US f'r ? WE hain't done nothing . 
No , I know you haven't . 
I ain't blaming you , gentlemen . 
I brought myself down yes , I did it myself . 
It's right I should suffer perfectly right I don't make any moan . 
Brought you down from whar ? Whar was you brought down from ? Ah , you would not believe me the world never believes let it pass 'tis no matter . 
By rights I am a duke ! Jim's eyes bugged out when he heard that and I reckon mine did , too . 
Then the baldhead says No ! you can't mean it ? Yes . 
The second son of the late duke seized the titles and estates the infant real duke was ignored . 
Well , that was all easy , so we done it . 
But the old man got pretty silent by and by didn't have much to say , and didn't look pretty comfortable over all that petting that was going on around that duke . 
He seemed to have something on his mind . 
No ? No you ain't . 
You ain't the only person that's ben snaked down wrongfully out'n a high place . 
Alas ! No , you ain't the only person that's had a secret of his birth . 
And , by jings , HE begins to cry . 
Hold ! What do you mean ? Bilgewater , kin I trust you ? says the old man , still sort of sobbing . 
You ! At your age ! No ! You mean you're the late Charlemagne you must be six or seven hun dred years old , at the very least . 
Trouble has done it , Bilgewater , trouble has done it trouble has brung these gray hairs and this prema ture balditude . 
Yes , gentlemen , you see before you , in blue jeans and misery , the wanderin' , exiled , tram pled on , and sufferin' rightful King of France . 
So we set in , like we done before with the duke , and tried to comfort HIM . 
So Jim and me set to majestying him , and doing this and that and t'other for him , and standing up till he told us we might set down . 
This done him heaps of good , and so he got cheerful and comfortable . 
This ain't no bad thing that we've struck here plenty grub and an easy life come , give us your hand , duke , and le's all be friends . 
The duke done it , and Jim and me was pretty glad to see it . 
It didn't take me long to make up my mind that these liars warn't no kings nor dukes at all , but just low down humbugs and frauds . 
But I never said nothing , never let on kept it to myself it's the best way then you don't have no quarrels , and don't get into no trouble . 
If I never learnt nothing else out of pap , I learnt that the best way to get along with his kind of people is to let them have their own way . 
Pa , he 'lowed he'd break up and go down and live with Uncle Ben , who's got a little one horse place on the river , forty four mile below Orleans . 
Pa was pretty poor , and had some debts so when he'd squared up there warn't nothing left but sixteen dollars and our nigger , Jim . 
That warn't enough to take us fourteen hundred mile , deck passage nor no other way . 
Well , when the river rose pa had a streak of luck one day he ketched this piece of a raft so we reckoned we'd go down to Orleans on it . 
We don't run day times no more now nights they don't bother us . 
The duke says Leave me alone to cipher out a way so we can run in the daytime if we want to . 
I'll think the thing over I'll invent a plan that'll fix it . 
We'll let it alone for to day , because of course we don't want to go by that town yonder in daylight it mightn't be healthy . 
So the duke and the king went to overhauling our wigwam , to see what the beds was like . 
Well , the duke allowed he would take my bed but the king allowed he wouldn't . 
He says I should a reckoned the difference in rank would a sejested to you that a corn shuck bed warn't just fitten for me to sleep on . 
Your Grace 'll take the shuck bed yourself . 
Misfortune has broken my once haughty spirit I yield , I submit 'tis my fate . 
I am alone in the world let me suffer can bear it . 
We got away as soon as it was good and dark . 
The king told us to stand well out towards the middle of the river , and not show a light till we got a long ways below the town . 
We come in sight of the little bunch of lights by and by that was the town , you know and slid by , about a half a mile out , all right . 
The waves most washed me off the raft sometimes , but I hadn't any clothes on , and didn't mind . 
It most killed Jim a laughing . 
He was the easiest nigger to laugh that ever was , anyway . 
The king got out an old ratty deck of cards after breakfast , and him and the duke played seven up a while , five cents a game . 
Then they got tired of it , and allowed they would lay out a campaign , as they called it . 
The duke went down into his carpet bag , and fetched up a lot of little printed bills and read them out loud . 
One bill said , The celebrated Dr . 
The duke said that was HIM . 
In an other bill he was the world renowned Shakespearian tragedian , Garrick the Younger , of Drury Lane , Lon don . 
In other bills he had a lot of other names and done other wonderful things , like finding water and gold with a divining rod , dissipating witch spells , and so on . 
By and by he says But the histrionic muse is the darling . 
Have you ever trod the boards , Royalty ? No , says the king . 
You shall , then , before you're three days older , Fallen Grandeur , says the duke . 
The first good town we come to we'll hire a hall and do the sword fight in Richard III . 
and the balcony scene in Romeo and Juliet . 
I was too small when pap used to have 'em at the palace . 
Do you reckon you can learn me ? Easy ! All right . 
I'm jist a freezn' for something fresh , anyway . 
So the duke he told him all about who Romeo was and who Juliet was , and said he was used to being Romeo , so the king could be Juliet . 
But if Juliet's such a young gal , duke , my peeled head and my white whiskers is goin' to look oncommon odd on her , maybe . 
No , don't you worry these country jakes won't ever think of that . 
Here are the costumes for the parts . 
He got out two or three curtain calico suits , which he said was meedyevil armor for Richard III . 
and t'other chap , and a long white cotton nightshirt and a ruffled nightcap to match . 
The king allowed he would go , too , and see if he couldn't strike something . 
We was out of coffee , so Jim said I better go along with them in the canoe and get some . 
When we got there there warn't nobody stirring streets empty , and perfectly dead and still , like Sun day . 
The king got the directions , and allowed he'd go and work that camp meeting for all it was worth , and I might go , too . 
The duke said what he was after was a printing office . 
We found it a little bit of a concern , up over a carpenter shop carpenters and printers all gone to the meeting , and no doors locked . 
It was a dirty , littered up place , and had ink marks , and handbills with pictures of horses and runaway niggers on them , all over the walls . 
The duke shed his coat and said he was all right now . 
So me and the king lit out for the camp meeting . 
We got there in about a half an hour fairly dripping , for it was a most awful hot day . 
There was as much as a thousand people there from twenty mile around . 
The woods was full of teams and wagons , hitched everywheres , feeding out of the wagon troughs and stomping to keep off the flies . 
There was sheds made out of poles and roofed over with branches , where they had lemonade and gingerbread to sell , and piles of watermelons and green corn and such like truck . 
The preaching was going on under the same kinds of sheds , only they was bigger and held crowds of people . 
The benches was made out of outside slabs of logs , with holes bored in the round side to drive sticks into for legs . 
They didn't have no backs . 
The preachers had high platforms to stand on at one end of the sheds . 
The women had on sun bonnets and some had linsey woolsey frocks , some gingham ones , and a few of the young ones had on calico . 
Some of the young men was barefooted , and some of the children didn't have on any clothes but just a tow linen shirt . 
Some of the old women was knitting , and some of the young folks was courting on the sly . 
The first shed we come to the preacher was lining out a hymn . 
The people woke up more and more , and sung louder and louder and towards the end some begun to groan , and some begun to shout . 
You couldn't make out what the preacher said any more , on account of the shouting and crying . 
When we got back to the raft and he come to count up he found he had collected eighty seven dollars and seventy five cents . 
And then he had fetched away a three gallon jug of whisky , too , that he found under a wagon when he was starting home through the woods . 
The king said , take it all around , it laid over any day he'd ever put in in the missionarying line . 
He said it warn't no use talking , heathens don't amount to shucks alongside of pirates to work a camp meeting with . 
The duke was thinking HE'D been doing pretty well till the king come to show up , but after that he didn't think so so much . 
He had set up and printed off two little jobs for farmers in that printing office horse bills and took the money , four dollars . 
Well , he took in nine dollars and a half , and said he'd done a pretty square day's work for it . 
Then he showed us another little job he'd printed and hadn't charged for , because it was for us . 
It had a picture of a runaway nigger with a bundle on a stick over his shoulder , and reward under it . 
The reading was all about Jim , and just described him to a dot . 
It said he run away from St . 
Now , says the duke , after to night we can run in the daytime if we want to . 
Handcuffs and chains would look still better on Jim , but it wouldn't go well with the story of us being so poor . 
Ropes are the correct thing we must preserve the unities , as we say on the boards . 
We all said the duke was pretty smart , and there couldn't be no trouble about running daytimes . 
Well , says he , dat's all right , den . 
I doan' mine one er two kings , but dat's enough . 
Dis one's powerful drunk , en de duke ain' much better . 
IT was after sun up now , but we went right on and didn't tie up . 
The king and the duke turned out by and by looking pretty rusty but after they'd jumped overboard and took a swim it chippered them up a good deal . 
When he had got it pretty good him and the duke begun to practice it together . 
Well , next they got out a couple of long swords that the duke made out of oak laths , and begun to practice the sword fight the duke called himself Richard III . 
and the way they laid on and pranced around the raft was grand to see . 
After dinner the duke says Well , Capet , we'll want to make this a first class show , you know , so I guess we'll add a little more to it . 
We want a little something to answer encores with , anyway . 
Hamlet's which ? Hamlet's soliloquy , you know the most celebrated thing in Shakespeare . 
Ah , it's sublime , sublime ! Al ways fetches the house . 
I haven't got it in the book I've only got one volume but I reckon I can piece it out from memory . 
I'll just walk up and down a minute , and see if I can call it back from recollec tion's vaults . 
It was beautiful to see him . 
By and by he got it . 
He told us to give attention . 
'Tis a consummation devoutly to be wished . 
The circus would leave before night , so our show would have a pretty good chance . 
The duke he hired the courthouse , and we went around and stuck up our bills . 
! ! ! Richard III . 
Then we went loafing around town . 
Some of the fences had been white washed some time or another , but the duke said it was in Clumbus' time , like enough . 
There was generly hogs in the garden , and people driving them out . 
All the stores was along one street . 
They had white domestic awnings in front , and the country peo ple hitched their horses to the awning posts . 
What a body was hearing amongst them all the time was Gimme a chaw 'v tobacker , Hank Cain't I hain't got but one chaw left . 
Maybe Bill he gives him a chaw maybe he lies and says he ain't got none . 
Some of them kinds of loafers never has a cent in the world , nor a chaw of tobacco of their own . 
Well , I DID pay you back some of it wunst . 
Yes , you did 'bout six chaws . 
You borry'd store tobacker and paid back nigger head . 
Store tobacco is flat black plug , but these fellows mostly chaws the natural leaf twisted . 
The hogs loafed and grunted around everywheres . 
Then they'd settle back again till there was a dog fight . 
The bank was caved away under one corner of some others , and that corner was hanging over . 
People lived in them yet , but it was dangersome , be cause sometimes a strip of land as wide as a house caves in at a time . 
Sometimes a belt of land a quarter of a mile deep will start in and cave along and cave along till it all caves into the river in one summer . 
Such a town as that has to be always moving back , and back , and back , because the river's always gnawing at it . 
The nearer it got to noon that day the thicker and thicker was the wagons and horses in the streets , and more coming all the time . 
Families fetched their dinners with them from the country , and eat them in the wagons . 
There was considerable whisky drinking going on , and I seen three fights . 
One of them says Wonder who he's a gwyne to chaw up this time . 
If he'd a chawed up all the men he's ben a gwyne to chaw up in the last twenty year he'd have considerable ruputation now . 
Another one says , I wisht old Boggs 'd threaten me , 'cuz then I'd know I warn't gwyne to die for a thousan' year . 
Boggs comes a tearing along on his horse , whooping and yelling like an Injun , and singing out Cler the track , thar . 
I'm on the waw path , and the price uv coffins is a gwyne to raise . 
He was drunk , and weaving about in his saddle he was over fifty year old , and had a very red face . 
He see me , and rode up and says Whar'd you come f'm , boy ? You prepared to die ? Then he rode on . 
I was scared , but a man says He don't mean nothing he's always a carryin' on like that when he's drunk . 
He's the best natured est old fool in Arkansaw never hurt nobody , drunk nor sober . 
He says to Boggs , mighty ca'm and slow he says I'm tired of this , but I'll endure it till one o'clock . 
Till one o'clock , mind no longer . 
If you open your mouth against me only once after that time you can't travel so far but I will find you . 
Then he turns and goes in . 
The crowd looked mighty sober nobody stirred , and there warn't no more laughing . 
Boggs rode off blackguarding Sher burn as loud as he could yell , all down the street and pretty soon back he comes and stops before the store , still keeping it up . 
But it didn't do no good . 
By and by somebody says Go for his daughter ! quick , go for his daughter sometimes he'll listen to her . 
If anybody can persuade him , she can . 
So somebody started on a run . 
I walked down street a ways and stopped . 
In about five or ten min utes here comes Boggs again , but not on his horse . 
He was a reeling across the street towards me , bare headed , with a friend on both sides of him a holt of his arms and hurrying him along . 
He was quiet , and looked uneasy and he warn't hanging back any , but was doing some of the hurrying himself . 
Somebody sings out Boggs ! I looked over there to see who said it , and it was that Colonel Sherburn . 
The same second I see a young girl coming on the run , and two men with her . 
Then they pulled his daughter away from him , screaming and crying , and took her off . 
She was about sixteen , and very sweet and gentle looking , but awful pale and scared . 
There was considerable jawing back , so I slid out , thinking maybe there was going to be trouble . 
The streets was full , and everybody was excited . 
Every body that seen the shooting was telling how it hap pened , and there was a big crowd packed around each one of these fellows , stretching their necks and listen ing . 
The people that had seen the thing said he done it perfect said it was just exactly the way it all happened . 
Then as much as a dozen people got out their bottles and treated him . 
Well , by and by somebody said Sherburn ought to be lynched . 
In about a minute everybody was saying it so away they went , mad and yelling , and snatching down every clothes line they come to to do the hang ing with . 
Lots of the women and girls was crying and taking on , scared most to death . 
They swarmed up in front of Sherburn's palings as thick as they could jam together , and you couldn't hear yourself think for the noise . 
It was a little twenty foot yard . 
The racket stopped , and the wave sucked back . 
Sherburn never said a word just stood there , look ing down . 
The stillness was awful creepy and uncom fortable . 
Sherburn run his eye slow along the crowd and wherever it struck the people tried a little to out gaze him , but they couldn't they dropped their eyes and looked sneaky . 
Then pretty soon Sherburn sort of laughed not the pleasant kind , but the kind that makes you feel like when you are eating bread that's got sand in it . 
Then he says , slow and scornful The idea of YOU lynching anybody ! It's amusing . 
Do I know you ? I know you clear through was born and raised in the South , and I've lived in the North so I know the average all around . 
The average man's a coward . 
In the North he lets anybody walk over him that wants to , and goes home and prays for a humble spirit to bear it . 
In the South one man all by himself , has stopped a stage full of men in the daytime , and robbed the lot . 
Your newspapers call you a brave people so much that you think you are braver than any other people whereas you're just AS brave , and no braver . 
Why don't your juries hang murderers ? Because they're afraid the man's friends will shoot them in the back , in the dark and it's just what they WOULD do . 
So they always acquit and then a MAN goes in the night , with a hundred masked cowards at his back and lynches the rascal . 
Your mistake is , that you didn't bring a man with you that's one mistake , and the other is that you didn't come in the dark and fetch your masks . 
You brought PART of a man Buck Harkness , there and if you hadn't had him to start you , you'd a taken it out in blowing . 
You didn't want to come . 
The average man don't like trouble and danger . 
YOU don't like trouble and danger . 
But a mob without any MAN at the head of it is BENEATH pitifulness . 
Now the thing for YOU to do is to droop your tails and go home and crawl in a hole . 
If any real lynching's going to be done it will be done in the dark , Southern fashion and when they come they'll bring their masks , and fetch a MAN along . 
Now LEAVE and take your half a man with you tossing his gun up across his left arm and cocking it when he says this . 
The crowd washed back sudden , and then broke all apart , and went tearing off every which way , and Buck Harkness he heeled it after them , looking tolerable cheap . 
I could a stayed if I wanted to , but I didn't want to . 
I went to the circus and loafed around the back side till the watchman went by , and then dived in under the tent . 
You can't be too careful . 
I ain't opposed to spending money on circuses when there ain't no other way , but there ain't no use in WASTING it on them . 
It was a real bully circus . 
It was a powerful fine sight I never see anything so lovely . 
Well , all through the circus they done the most astonishing things and all the time that clown carried on so it most killed the people . 
Why , I couldn't a thought of them in a year . 
And by and by a drunk man tried to get into the ring said he wanted to ride said he could ride as well as anybody that ever was . 
They argued and tried to keep him out , but he wouldn't listen , and the whole show come to a standstill . 
So everybody laughed and said all right , and the man got on . 
It warn't funny to me , though I was all of a tremble to see his danger . 
He shed them so thick they kind of clogged up the air , and altogether he shed seventeen suits . 
Then the ringmaster he see how he had been fooled , and he WAS the sickest ringmaster you ever see , I reckon . 
Why , it was one of his own men ! He had got up that joke all out of his own head , and never let on to nobody . 
Well , I felt sheepish enough to be took in so , but I wouldn't a been in that ringmaster's place , not for a thousand dollars . 
I don't know there may be bullier circuses than what that one was , but I never struck them yet . 
Anyways , it was plenty good enough for ME and wherever I run across it , it can have all of MY custom every time . 
Well , that night we had OUR show but there warn't only about twelve people there just enough to pay expenses . 
And they laughed all the time , and that made the duke mad and everybody left , anyway , before the show was over , but one boy which was asleep . 
So the duke said these Arkansaw lunkheads couldn't come up to Shakespeare what they wanted was low comedy and maybe something ruther worse than low comedy , he reckoned . 
He said he could size their style . 
So next morning he got some big sheets of wrapping paper and some black paint , and drawed off some handbills , and stuck them up all over the village . 
Then at the bottom was the biggest line of all , which said LADIES AND CHILDREN NOT ADMITTED . 
There , says he , if that line don't fetch them , I don't know Arkansaw ! CHAPTER XXIII . 
And but never mind the rest of his outfit it was just wild , but it was awful funny . 
Well , it would make a cow laugh to see the shines that old idiot cut . 
Twenty people sings out What , is it over ? Is that ALL ? The duke says yes . 
Then there was a fine time . 
Everybody sings out , Sold ! and rose up mad , and was a going for that stage and them tragedians . 
But a big , fine looking man jumps up on a bench and shouts Hold on ! Just a word , gentlemen . 
We are sold mighty badly sold . 
But we don't want to be the laughing stock of this whole town , I reckon , and never hear the last of this thing as long as we live . 
What we want is to go out of here quiet , and talk this show up , and sell the REST of the town ! Then we'll all be in the same boat . 
All right , then not a word about any sell . 
Go along home , and ad vise everybody to come and see the tragedy . 
Next day you couldn't hear nothing around that town but how splendid that show was . 
House was jammed again that night , and we sold this crowd the same way . 
The third night the house was crammed again and they warn't new comers this time , but people that was at the show the other two nights . 
I shoved in there for a minute , but it was too various for me I couldn't stand it . 
We never showed a light till we was about ten mile below the village . 
Then we lit up and had a supper , and the king and the duke fairly laughed their bones loose over the way they'd served them people . 
Well , it IS their turn , and I'd give something to know how much they'd take for it . 
I WOULD just like to know how they're putting in their opportunity . 
They can turn it into a picnic if they want to they brought plenty provisions . 
Them rapscallions took in four hundred and sixty five dollars in that three nights . 
I never see money hauled in by the wagon load like that before . 
By and by , when they was asleep and snoring , Jim says Don't it s'prise you de way dem kings carries on , Huck ? No , I says , it don't . 
Why don't it , Huck ? Well , it don't , because it's in the breed . 
I reckon they're all alike , But , Huck , dese kings o' ourn is reglar rapscal lions dat's jist what dey is dey's reglar rapscallions . 
Well , that's what I'm a saying all kings is mostly rapscallions , as fur as I can make out . 
Is dat so ? You read about them once you'll see . 
Look at Henry the Eight this 'n 's a Sunday school Super intendent to HIM . 
My , you ought to seen old Henry the Eight when he was in bloom . 
He used to marry a new wife every day , and chop off her head next morn ing . 
And he would do it just as indifferent as if he was ordering up eggs . 
'Fetch up Nell Gwynn , he says . 
Next morning , 'Chop off her head ! And they chop it off . 
'Fetch up Jane Shore , he says and up she comes , Next morning , 'Chop off her head' and they chop it off . 
Fair Rosamun answers the bell . 
Next morning , 'Chop off her head . 
You don't know kings , Jim , but I know them and this old rip of ourn is one of the cleanest I've struck in history . 
Well , Henry he takes a notion he wants to get up some trouble with this country . 
That was HIS style he never give anybody a chance . 
He had suspicions of his father , the Duke of Wellington . 
Well , what did he do ? Ask him to show up ? No drownded him in a butt of mamsey , like a cat . 
S'pose people left money laying around where he was what did he do ? He collared it . 
S'pose he opened his mouth what then ? If he didn't shut it up powerful quick he'd lose a lie every time . 
That's the kind of a bug Henry was and if we'd a had him along 'stead of our kings he'd a fooled that town a heap worse than ourn done . 
I don't say that ourn is lambs , because they ain't , when you come right down to the cold facts but they ain't nothing to THAT old ram , anyway . 
All I say is , kings is kings , and you got to make allowances . 
Take them all around , they're a mighty ornery lot . 
It's the way they're raised . 
But dis one do SMELL so like de nation , Huck . 
Well , they all do , Jim . 
We can't help the way a king smells history don't tell no way . 
Now de duke , he's a tolerble likely man in some ways . 
Yes , a duke's different . 
This one's a middling hard lot for a duke . 
When he's drunk there ain't no near sighted man could tell him from a king . 
Well , anyways , I doan' hanker for no mo' un um , Huck . 
Dese is all I kin stan' . 
It's the way I feel , too , Jim . 
But we've got them on our hands , and we got to remember what they are , and make allowances . 
Sometimes I wish we could hear of a country that's out of kings . 
I went to sleep , and Jim didn't call me when it was my turn . 
When I waked up just at daybreak he was sitting there with his head down betwixt his knees , moaning and mourning to himself . 
I didn't take notice nor let on . 
I knowed what it was about . 
It don't seem natural , but I reckon it's so . 
She never done it jis' stood dah , kiner smilin' up at me . 
It make me mad en I says agin , mighty loud , I says 'Doan' you hear me ? Shet de do' ! She jis stood de same way , kiner smilin' up . 
I was a bilin' ! I says 'I lay I MAKE you mine ! En wid dat I fetch' her a slap side de head dat sont her a sprawlin' . 
So the duke said it WAS kind of hard to have to lay roped all day , and he'd cipher out some way to get around it . 
He was uncommon bright , the duke was , and he soon struck it . 
Blamed if he warn't the horriblest looking outrage I ever see . 
Then the duke took and wrote out a sign on a shingle so Sick Arab but harmless when not out of his head . 
And he nailed that shingle to a lath , and stood the lath up four or five foot in front of the wigwam . 
He said it was a sight better than lying tied a couple of years every day , and trembling all over every time there was a sound . 
Which was sound enough judg ment but you take the average man , and he wouldn't wait for him to howl . 
Why , he didn't only look like he was dead , he looked considerable more than that . 
We had all bought store clothes where we stopped last and now the king put his'n on , and he told me to put mine on . 
I done it , of course . 
The king's duds was all black , and he did look real swell and starchy . 
I never knowed how clothes could change a body be fore . 
Jim cleaned up the canoe , and I got my paddle ready . 
There was a big steamboat lay ing at the shore away up under the point , about three mile above the town been there a couple of hours , taking on freight . 
Says the king Seein' how I'm dressed , I reckon maybe I better arrive down from St . 
Louis or Cincinnati , or some other big place . 
Go for the steamboat , Huckleberry we'll come down to the village on her . 
I didn't have to be ordered twice to go and take a steamboat ride . 
I fetched the shore a half a mile above the village , and then went scooting along the bluff bank in the easy water . 
Run her nose in shore , says the king . 
Wher' you bound for , young man ? For the steamboat going to Orleans . 
Git aboard , says the king . 
Hold on a minute , my servant 'll he'p you with them bags . 
Jump out and he'p the gentleman , Adolphus meaning me , I see . 
I done so , and then we all three started on again . 
The young chap was mighty thankful said it was tough work toting his baggage such weather . 
The young fellow says When I first see you I says to myself , 'It's Mr. Wilks , sure , and he come mighty near getting here in time . 
But then I says again , 'No , I reckon it ain't him , or else he wouldn't be paddling up the river . 
You AIN'T him , are you ? No , my name's Blodgett Elexander Blodgett REVEREND Elexander Blodgett , I s'pose I must say , as I'm one o' the Lord's poor servants . 
But still I'm jist as able to be sorry for Mr. Wilks for not arriving in time , all the same , if he's missed anything by it which I hope he hasn't . 
Peter and George were the only ones that come out here George was the married brother him and his wife both died last year . 
Harvey and William's the only ones that's left now and , as I was saying , they haven't got here in time . 
He most desperately wanted to see Harvey and William , too , for that matter because he was one of them kind that can't bear to make a will . 
And that letter was all they could get him to put a pen to . 
Why do you reckon Harvey don't come ? Wher' does he live ? Oh , he lives in England Sheffield preaches there hasn't ever been in this country . 
He hasn't had any too much time and besides he mightn't a got the letter at all , you know . 
Too bad , too bad he couldn't a lived to see his brothers , poor soul . 
You going to Orleans , you say ? Yes , but that ain't only a part of it . 
I'm going in a ship , next Wednesday , for Ryo Janeero , where my uncle lives . 
It's a pretty long journey . 
But it'll be lovely wisht I was a going . 
Poor things ! to be left alone in the cold world so . 
Well , they could be worse off . 
Old Peter had friends , and they ain't going to let them come to no harm . 
There's Hobson , the Babtis' preacher and Deacon Lot Hovey , and Ben Rucker , and Abner Shackleford , and Levi Bell , the lawyer and Dr . 
Well , the old man went on asking questions till he just fairly emptied that young fellow . 
Then he says What did you want to walk all the way up to the steamboat for ? Because she's a big Orleans boat , and I was afeard she mightn't stop there . 
When they're deep they won't stop for a hail . 
A Cincinnati boat will , but this is a St . 
Was Peter Wilks well off ? Oh , yes , pretty well off . 
He had houses and land , and it's reckoned he left three or four thousand in cash hid up som'ers . 
When did you say he died ? I didn't say , but it was last night . 
Funeral to morrow , likely ? Yes , 'bout the middle of the day . 
Well , it's all terrible sad but we've all got to go , one time or another . 
So what we want to do is to be prepared then we're all right . 
Yes , sir , it's the best way . 
Ma used to always say that . 
When we struck the boat she was about done load ing , and pretty soon she got off . 
The king never said nothing about going aboard , so I lost my ride , after all . 
And if he's gone over to t'other side , go over there and git him . 
And tell him to git himself up regardless . 
I see what HE was up to but I never said nothing , of course . 
And all the time he was a doing it he tried to talk like an Englishman and he done it pretty well , too , for a slouch . 
I can't imitate him , and so I ain't a going to try to but he really done it pretty good . 
So then they waited for a steamboat . 
But the king was ca'm . 
sir , but the best we can do is to tell you where he DID live yesterday evening . 
If they warn't the beatenest lot , them two frauds , that ever I struck . 
Well , if ever I struck anything like it , I'm a nigger . 
It was enough to make a body ashamed of the human race . 
Pretty soon we was in the middle of a crowd , and the noise of the tramping was like a soldier march . 
When we got to the house the street in front of it was packed , and the three girls was standing in the door . 
And , mind you , everybody was doing the same and the place was that damp I never see anything like it . 
I never see anything so dis gusting . 
Music is a good thing and after all that soul butter and hogwash I never see it freshen up things so , and sound so honest and bully . 
Mr. Hobson , and Deacon Lot Hovey , and Mr. Ben Rucker , and Abner Shackleford , and Levi Bell , and Dr . 
Robin son , and their wives , and the widow Bartley . 
Lawyer Bell was away up to Louisville on business . 
Then Mary Jane she fetched the letter her father left behind , and the king he read it out loud and cried over it . 
, and three thousand dollars in gold to Harvey and William , and told where the six thousand cash was hid down cellar . 
So these two frauds said they'd go and fetch it up , and have everything square and above board and told me to come with a candle . 
We shut the cellar door behind us , and when they found the bag they spilt it out on the floor , and it was a lovely sight , all them yaller boys . 
Thish yer comes of trust'n to Providence . 
It's the best way , in the long run . 
I've tried 'em all , and ther' ain't no better way . 
Most everybody would a been satisfied with the pile , and took it on trust but no , they must count it . 
So they counts it , and it comes out four hundred and fifteen dollars short . 
Says the king Dern him , I wonder what he done with that four hundred and fifteen dollars ? They worried over that awhile , and ransacked all around for it . 
Then the duke says Well , he was a pretty sick man , and likely he made a mistake I reckon that's the way of it . 
The best way's to let it go , and keep still about it . 
Oh , shucks , yes , we can SPARE it . 
I don't k'yer noth'n 'bout that it's the COUNT I'm thinkin' about . 
We want to be awful square and open and above board here , you know . 
We want to lug this h yer money up stairs and count it before everybody then ther' ain't noth'n suspicious . 
But when the dead man says ther's six thous'n dollars , you know , we don't want to Hold on , says the duke . 
Le's make up the deffisit , and he begun to haul out yaller boys out of his pocket . 
It's a most amaz'n' good idea , duke you HAVE got a rattlin' clever head on you , says the king . 
Blest if the old Nonesuch ain't a heppin' us out agin , and HE begun to haul out yaller jackets and stack them up . 
It most busted them , but they made up the six thousand clean and clear . 
Say , says the duke , I got another idea . 
Le's go up stairs and count this money , and then take and GIVE IT TO THE GIRLS . 
Good land , duke , lemme hug you ! It's the most dazzling idea 'at ever a man struck . 
You have cert'nly got the most astonishin' head I ever see . 
Oh , this is the boss dodge , ther' ain't no mistake 'bout it . 
Let 'em fetch along their suspicions now if they want to this 'll lay 'em out . 
When we got up stairs everybody gethered around the table , and the king he counted it and stacked it up , three hundred dollars in a pile twenty elegant little piles . 
Everybody looked hungry at it , and licked their chops . 
Then they raked it into the bag again , and I see the king begin to swell himself up for another speech . 
He says Friends all , my poor brother that lays yonder has done generous by them that's left behind in the vale of sorrers . 
He has done generous by these yer poor little lambs that he loved and sheltered , and that's left fatherless and motherless . 
Yes , and we that knowed him knows that he would a done MORE generous by 'em if he hadn't ben afeard o' woundin' his dear William and me . 
Now , WOULDN'T he ? Ther' ain't no question 'bout it in MY mind . 
Then the king says , I knowed it I reckon THAT 'll convince anybody the way HE feels about it . 
Here , Mary Jane , Susan , Joanner , take the money take it ALL . 
It's the gift of him that lays yonder , cold but joyful . 
Mary Jane she went for him , Susan and the hare lip went for the duke , and then such another hugging and kissing I never see yet . 
The king was saying in the middle of something he'd started in on they bein' partickler friends o' the diseased . 
The king he reads it and puts it in his pocket , and says Poor William , afflicted as he is , his HEART'S aluz right . 
Asks me to invite everybody to come to the funeral wants me to make 'em all welcome . 
But he needn't a worried it was jest what I was at . 
Then he weaves along again , perfectly ca'm , and goes to dropping in his funeral orgies again every now and then , just like he done before . 
Obsequies ain't used in England no more now it's gone out . 
We say orgies now in England . 
Orgies is better , because it means the thing you're after more exact . 
It's a word that's made up out'n the Greek ORGO , outside , open , abroad and the Hebrew JEESUM , to plant , cover up hence inTER . 
So , you see , funeral orgies is an open er public funeral . 
He was the WORST I ever struck . 
Well , the iron jawed man he laughed right in his face . 
Everybody says , Why , DOCTOR ! and Abner Shackleford says Why , Robinson , hain't you heard the news ? This is Harvey Wilks . 
YOU talk like an Englishman , DON'T you ? It's the worst imitation I ever heard . 
The poor girls was hanging to the king and cry ing and all of a sudden the doctor ups and turns on THEM . 
Mary Jane Wilks , you know me for your friend , and for your unselfish friend , too . 
Now listen to me turn this pitiful rascal out I BEG you to do it . 
Will you ? Mary Jane straightened herself up , and my , but she was handsome ! She says HERE is my answer . 
Then she put her arm around the king on one side , and Susan and the hare lip done the same on the other . 
Everybody clapped their hands and stomped on the floor like a perfect storm , whilst the king held up his head and smiled proud . 
The doctor says All right I wash MY hands of the matter . 
But I warn you all that a time 's coming when you're going to feel sick whenever you think of this day . 
The king said the cubby would do for his valley meaning me . 
So Mary Jane took us up , and she showed them their rooms , which was plain but nice . 
She said she'd have her frocks and a lot of other traps took out of her room if they was in Uncle Harvey's way , but he said they warn't . 
The frocks was hung along the wall , and before them was a curtain made out of calico that hung down to the floor . 
The king said it was all the more homely and more pleasanter for these fixings , and so don't disturb them . 
The duke's room was pretty small , but plenty good enough , and so was my cubby . 
And when it was all done me and the hare lip had supper in the kitchen off of the leavings , whilst the others was helping the niggers clean up the things . 
The hare lip she got to pumping me about England , and blest if I didn't think the ice was getting mighty thin sometimes . 
She says Did you ever see the king ? Who ? William Fourth ? Well , I bet I have he goes to our church . 
I knowed he was dead years ago , but I never let on . 
So when I says he goes to our church , she says What regular ? Yes regular . 
His pew's right over opposite ourn on t'other side the pulpit . 
I thought he lived in London ? Well , he does . 
Where WOULD he live ? But I thought YOU lived in Sheffield ? I see I was up a stump . 
I had to let on to get choked with a chicken bone , so as to get time to think how to get down again . 
Then I says I mean he goes to our church regular when he's in Sheffield . 
That's only in the summer time , when he comes there to take the sea baths . 
Why , how you talk Sheffield ain't on the sea . 
Well , who said it was ? Why , you did . 
You did ! I didn't . 
I never said nothing of the kind . 
Well , what DID you say , then ? Said he come to take the sea BATHS that's what I said . 
Well , then , how's he going to take the sea baths if it ain't on the sea ? Looky here , I says did you ever see any Congress water ? Yes . 
Well , did you have to go to Congress to get it ? Why , no . 
Well , neither does William Fourth have to go to the sea to get a sea bath . 
How does he get it , then ? Gets it the way people down here gets Congress water in barrels . 
There in the palace at Sheffield they've got furnaces , and he wants his water hot . 
They can't bile that amount of water away off there at the sea . 
They haven't got no conveniences for it . 
Oh , I see , now . 
You might a said that in the first place and saved time . 
When she said that I see I was out of the woods again , and so I was comfortable and glad . 
Next , she says Do you go to church , too ? Yes regular . 
Where do you set ? Why , in our pew . 
WHOSE pew ? Why , OURN your Uncle Harvey's . 
His'n ? What does HE want with a pew ? Wants it to set in . 
What did you RECKON he wanted with it ? Why , I thought he'd be in the pulpit . 
Rot him , I forgot he was a preacher . 
I see I was up a stump again , so I played another chicken bone and got another think . 
They don't have no less than seventeen . 
Seventeen ! My land ! Why , I wouldn't set out such a string as that , not if I NEVER got to glory . 
It must take 'em a week . 
Shucks , they don't ALL of 'em preach the same day only ONE of 'em . 
Well , then , what does the rest of 'em do ? Oh , nothing much . 
Loll around , pass the plate and one thing or another . 
But mainly they don't do nothing . 
Well , then , what are they FOR ? Why , they're for STYLE . 
Don't you know noth ing ? Well , I don't WANT to know no such foolishness as that . 
How is servants treated in England ? Do they treat 'em better 'n we treat our niggers ? NO ! A servant ain't nobody there . 
They treat them worse than dogs . 
Nor church ? Nor church . 
But YOU always went to church . 
Well , I was gone up again . 
I forgot I was the old man's servant . 
But I didn't do it pretty good , and when I got done I see she warn't satisfied . 
She says Honest injun , now , hain't you been telling me a lot of lies ? Honest injun , says I. None of it at all ? None of it at all . 
Not a lie in it , says I. Lay your hand on this book and say it . 
I see it warn't nothing but a dictionary , so I laid my hand on it and said it . 
So then she looked a little better satisfied , and says Well , then , I'll believe some of it but I hope to gracious if I'll believe the rest . 
What is it you won't believe , Joe ? says Mary Jane , stepping in with Susan behind her . 
It ain't right nor kind for you to talk so to him , and him a stranger and so far from his people . 
How would you like to be treated so ? That's always your way , Maim always sailing in to help somebody before they're hurt . 
I hain't done nothing to him . 
He's told some stretchers , I reckon , and I said I wouldn't swallow it all and that's every bit and grain I DID say . 
If you was in his place it would make you feel ashamed and so you oughtn't to say a thing to another person that will make THEM feel ashamed . 
Why , Maim , he said It don't make no difference what he SAID that ain't the thing . 
The thing is for you to treat him KIND , and not be saying things to make him remember he ain't in his own country and amongst his own folks . 
All right , then , says the other girls you just ask his pardon . 
She done it , too and she done it beautiful . 
She done it so beautiful it was good to hear and I wished I could tell her a thousand lies , so she could do it again . 
I says to myself , this is ANOTHER one that I'm letting him rob her of her money . 
And when she got through they all jest laid theirselves out to make me feel at home and know I was amongst friends . 
I felt so ornery and low down and mean that I says to myself , my mind's made up I'll hive that money for them or bust . 
So then I lit out for bed , I said , meaning some time or another . 
When I got by myself I went to thinking the thing over . 
I says to myself , shall I go to that doctor , private , and blow on these frauds ? No that won't do . 
He might tell who told him then the king and the duke would make it warm for me . 
Shall I go , private , and tell Mary Jane ? No I dasn't do it . 
Her face would give them a hint , sure they've got the money , and they'd slide right out and get away with it . 
If she was to fetch in help I'd get mixed up in the business before it was done with , I judge . 
No there ain't no good way but one . 
I got to steal that money , somehow and I got to steal it some way that they won't suspicion that I done it . 
I'll steal it and hide it and by and by , when I'm away down the river , I'll write a letter and tell Mary Jane where it's hid . 
So , thinks I , I'll go and search them rooms . 
But I see I couldn't do nothing without a candle , and I dasn't light one , of course . 
So I judged I'd got to do the other thing lay for them and eavesdrop . 
They come in and shut the door and the first thing the duke done was to get down and look under the bed . 
Then I was glad I hadn't found the bed when I wanted it . 
And yet , you know , it's kind of natural to hide under the bed when you are up to anything private . 
Well , this is it , Capet . 
I ain't easy I ain't com fortable . 
That doctor lays on my mind . 
I wanted to know your plans . 
I've got a notion , and I think it's a sound one . 
What is it , duke ? That we better glide out of this before three in the morning , and clip it down the river with what we've got . 
I'm for knocking off and lighting out . 
That made me feel pretty bad . 
The duke he grumbled said the bag of gold was enough , and he didn't want to go no deeper didn't want to rob a lot of orphans of EVERYTHING they had . 
Why , how you talk ! says the king . 
We sha'n't rob 'em of nothing at all but jest this money . 
These yer orphans 'll git their house back agin , and that's enough for THEM they're young and spry , and k'n easy earn a livin' . 
THEY ain't a goin to suffer . 
Why , jest think there's thous'n's and thous'n's that ain't nigh so well off . 
Bless you , THEY ain't got noth'n' to complain of . 
The duke says I don't think we put that money in a good place . 
I'd begun to think I warn't going to get a hint of no kind to help me . 
But the king he got the bag before I could think more than about a half a thought , and he never suspicioned I was around . 
I had it out of there before they was half way down stairs . 
I groped along up to my cubby , and hid it there till I could get a chance to do better . 
I judged I better hide it outside of the house somewheres , because if they missed it they would give the house a good ransacking I knowed that very well . 
So I held on till all the late sounds had quit and the early ones hadn't begun yet and then I slipped down the ladder . 
I CREPT to their doors and listened they was snor ing . 
So I tiptoed along , and got down stairs all right . 
There warn't a sound anywheres . 
I peeped through a crack of the dining room door , and see the men that was watching the corpse all sound asleep on their chairs . 
The door was open into the parlor , where the corpse was laying , and there was a candle in both rooms . 
Just then I heard somebody coming down the stairs , back behind me . 
I run in the parlor and took a swift look around , and the only place I see to hide the bag was in the coffin . 
The lid was shoved along about a foot , show ing the dead man's face down in there , with a wet cloth over it , and his shroud on . 
The person coming was Mary Jane . 
I slid out , and as I passed the dining room I thought I'd make sure them watchers hadn't seen me so I looked through the crack , and everything was all right . 
I slipped up to bed , feeling ruther blue , on accounts of the thing playing out that way after I had took so much trouble and run so much resk about it . 
Then the king 'll get it again , and it 'll be a long day before he gives anybody another chance to smouch it from him . 
Of course I WANTED to slide down and get it out of there , but I dasn't try it . 
I don't wish to be mixed up in no such business as that , I says to myself . 
When I got down stairs in the morning the parlor was shut up , and the watchers was gone . 
There warn't nobody around but the family and the widow Bartley and our tribe . 
I watched their faces to see if anything had been happening , but I couldn't tell . 
I see the coffin lid was the way it was before , but I dasn't go to look in under it , with folks around . 
He never spoke he moved people around , he squeezed in late ones , he opened up passageways , and done it with nods , and signs with his hands . 
Then he took his place over against the wall . 
He was the softest , glidingest , stealthiest man I ever see and there warn't no more smile to him than there is to a ham . 
It was right down awkward , and nobody didn't seem to know what to do . 
But pretty soon they see that long legged undertaker make a sign to the preacher as much as to say , Don't you worry just depend on me . 
Then he stooped down and begun to glide along the wall , just his shoulders showing over the people's heads . 
You could see it was a great satisfaction to the people , because naturally they wanted to know . 
A little thing like that don't cost nothing , and it's just the little things that makes a man to be looked up to and liked . 
There warn't no more popular man in town than what that undertaker was . 
I was in a sweat then , and watched him pretty keen . 
But he never meddled at all just slid the lid along as soft as mush , and screwed it down tight and fast . 
So there I was ! I didn't know whether the money was in there or not . 
But nothing come of it the faces didn't tell me nothing . 
He was very sorry he was so pushed , and so was everybody they wished he could stay longer , but they said they could see it couldn't be done . 
So the next day after the funeral , along about noon time , the girls' joy got the first jolt . 
I thought them poor girls and them niggers would break their hearts for grief they cried around each other , and took on so it most made me down sick to see it . 
The girls said they hadn't ever dreamed of seeing the family separated or sold away from the town . 
It injured the frauds some but the old fool he bulled right along , spite of all the duke could say or do , and I tell you the duke was powerful uneasy . 
Next day was auction day . 
About broad day in the morning the king and the duke come up in the garret and woke me up , and I see by their look that there was trouble . 
The king says Was you in my room night before last ? No , your majesty which was the way I always called him when nobody but our gang warn't around . 
Was you in there yisterday er last night ? No , your majesty . 
Honor bright , now no lies . 
Honor bright , your majesty , I'm telling you the truth . 
I hain't been a near your room since Miss Mary Jane took you and the duke and showed it to you . 
The duke says Have you seen anybody else go in there ? No , your grace , not as I remember , I believe . 
I studied awhile and see my chance then I says Well , I see the niggers go in there several times . 
Both of them gave a little jump , and looked like they hadn't ever expected it , and then like they HAD . 
Hello ! When was that ? It was the day we had the funeral . 
It warn't early , because I overslept . 
I was just starting down the ladder , and I see them . 
Well , go on , GO on ! What did they do ? How'd they act ? They didn't do nothing . 
And they didn't act anyway much , as fur as I see . 
Great guns , THIS is a go ! says the king and both of them looked pretty sick and tolerable silly . 
They let on to be SORRY they was going out of this region ! And I believed they WAS sorry , and so did you , and so did everybody . 
Don't ever tell ME any more that a nigger ain't got any histrionic talent . 
Why , the way they played that thing it would fool ANYBODY . 
In my opinion , there's a fortune in 'em . 
If I had capital and a theater , I wouldn't want a better lay out than that and here we've gone and sold 'em for a song . 
Yes , and ain't privileged to sing the song yet . 
Say , where IS that song that draft ? In the bank for to be collected . 
Where WOULD it be ? Well , THAT'S all right then , thank goodness . 
As they was starting down the ladder the duke he chuckles again , and says Quick sales AND small profits ! It's a good busi ness yes . 
The king snarls around on him and says I was trying to do for the best in sellin' 'em out so quick . 
The king sassed back as much as was safe for him , and then swapped around and lit into ME again . 
He give me down the banks for not coming and TELLING him I see the niggers come out of his room acting that way said any fool would a KNOWED something was up . 
So they went off a jawing and I felt dreadful glad I'd worked it all off on to the niggers , and yet hadn't done the niggers no harm by it . 
BY and by it was getting up time . 
But she had stopped now with a folded gown in her lap , and had her face in her hands , crying . 
I felt awful bad to see it of course anybody would . 
I went in there and says Miss Mary Jane , you can't a bear to see people in trouble , and I can't most always . 
And it was the niggers I just expected it . 
So I went to studying it out . 
I must lay it by in my mind , and think it over some time or other , it's so kind of strange and unregular . 
I never see nothing like it . 
Then I says Miss Mary Jane , is there any place out of town a little ways where you could go and stay three or four days ? Yes Mr. Lothrop's . 
Why ? Never mind why yet . 
She smiled and red dened up very sweet , and I says , If you don't mind it , I'll shut the door and bolt it . 
Then I come back and set down again , and says Don't you holler . 
Just set still and take it like a man . 
These uncles of yourn ain't no uncles at all they're a couple of frauds regular dead beats . 
There , now we're over the worst of it , you can stand the rest middling easy . 
But do you mean BEFORE you go to Mr. Lothrop's , or Oh , she says , what am I THINKING about ! she says , and set right down again . 
I never thought , I was so stirred up , she says now go on , and I won't do so any more . 
You tell me what to do , and whatever you say I'll do it . 
Well , we got to save HIM , hain't we ? Of course . 
Well , then , we won't blow on them . 
Saying them words put a good idea in my head . 
I see how maybe I could get me and Jim rid of the frauds get them jailed here , and then leave . 
I says Miss Mary Jane , I'll tell you what we'll do , and you won't have to stay at Mr. Lothrop's so long , nuther . 
How fur is it ? A little short of four miles right out in the country , back here . 
Well , that 'll answer . 
Now you go along out there , and lay low till nine or half past to night , and then get them to fetch you home again tell them you've thought of something . 
Then you come out and spread the news around , and get these beats jailed . 
Good , she says , I'll do it . 
Stand by you ! indeed I will . 
They sha'n't touch a hair of your head ! she says , and I see her nostrils spread and her eyes snap when she said it , too . 
If I get away I sha'n't be here , I says , to prove these rapscallions ain't your uncles , and I couldn't do it if I WAS here . 
I could swear they was beats and bummers , that's all , though that's worth something . 
Well , there's others can do that better than what I can , and they're people that ain't going to be doubted as quick as I'd be . 
I'll tell you how to find them . 
Gimme a pencil and a piece of paper . 
There 'Royal Nonesuch , Bricksville . 
Put it away , and don't lose it . 
And they'll come a biling , too . 
I judged we had got everything fixed about right now . 
So I says Just let the auction go right along , and don't worry . 
It's just like the way it was with the niggers it warn't no sale , and the niggers will be back before long . 
Why , they can't collect the money for the NIGGERS yet they're in the worst kind of a fix , Miss Mary . 
Well , she says , I'll run down to breakfast now , and then I'll start straight for Mr. Lothrop's . 
'Deed , THAT ain't the ticket , Miss Mary Jane , I says , by no manner of means go BEFORE breakfast . 
Why ? What did you reckon I wanted you to go at all for , Miss Mary ? Well , I never thought and come to think , I don't know . 
What was it ? Why , it's because you ain't one of these leather face people . 
I don't want no better book than what your face is . 
A body can set down and read it off like coarse print . 
And leave my sisters with them ? Yes never mind about them . 
They've got to stand it yet a while . 
They might suspicion something if all of you was to go . 
No , you go right along , Miss Mary Jane , and I'll fix it with all of them . 
Gone to see a friend is all right , but I won't have my love given to them . 
Well , then , it sha'n't be . 
It was well enough to tell HER so no harm in it . 
Then I says There's one more thing that bag of money . 
Well , they've got that and it makes me feel pretty silly to think HOW they got it . 
No , you're out , there . 
Why , who's got it ? I wish I knowed , but I don't . 
I'm awful sorry , Miss Mary Jane , I'm just as sorry as I can be but I done the best I could I did honest . 
I come nigh getting caught , and I had to shove it into the first place I come to , and run and it warn't a good place . 
Oh , stop blaming yourself it's too bad to do it , and I won't allow it you couldn't help it it wasn't your fault . 
Do you reckon that 'll do ? Oh , yes . 
So I wrote I put it in the coffin . 
It was in there when you was crying there , away in the night . 
I was behind the door , and I was mighty sorry for you , Miss Mary Jane . 
I'm going to do everything just as you've told me and if I don't ever see you again , I sha'n't ever forget you . 
and I'll think of you a many and a many a time , and I'll PRAY for you , too ! and she was gone . 
Pray for me ! I reckoned if she knowed me she'd take a job that was more nearer her size . 
But I bet she done it , just the same she was just that kind . 
She had the grit to pray for Judus if she took the notion there warn't no back down to her , I judge . 
You may say what you want to , but in my opinion she had more sand in her than any girl I ever see in my opinion she was just full of sand . 
It sounds like flattery , but it ain't no flattery . 
And when it comes to beauty and goodness , too she lays over them all . 
Well , Mary Jane she lit out the back way , I reckon because nobody see her go . 
That's the name , I says I most forgot it . 
Well , Miss Mary Jane she told me to tell you she's gone over there in a dreadful hurry one of them's sick . 
My goodness , and she so well only last week ! Is she took bad ? It ain't no name for it . 
They set up with her all night , Miss Mary Jane said , and they don't think she'll last many hours . 
Only think of that , now ! What's the matter with her ? I couldn't think of anything reasonable , right off that way , so I says Mumps . 
Mumps your granny ! They don't set up with people that's got the mumps . 
They don't , don't they ? You better bet they do with THESE mumps . 
It's a new kind , Miss Mary Jane said . 
How's it a new kind ? Because it's mixed up with other things . 
What other things ? Well , measles , and whooping cough , and erysiplas , and consumption , and yaller janders , and brain fever , and I don't know what all . 
My land ! And they call it the MUMPS ? That's what Miss Mary Jane said . 
Well , what in the nation do they call it the MUMPS for ? Why , because it IS the mumps . 
That's what it starts with . 
Well , ther' ain't no sense in it . 
Would ther' be any sense in that ? NO . 
And ther' ain't no sense in THIS , nuther . 
Is it ketching ? Is it KETCHING ? Why , how you talk . 
Well , it's awful , I think , says the hare lip . 
I'll go to Uncle Harvey and Oh , yes , I says , I WOULD . 
I wouldn't lose no time . 
Well , why wouldn't you ? Just look at it a minute , and maybe you can see . 
So fur , so good . 
Well , anyway , maybe you'd better tell some of the neighbors . 
Listen at that , now . 
You do beat all for natural stupidness . 
Can't you SEE that THEY'D go and tell ? Ther' ain't no way but just to not tell anybody at ALL . 
Well , maybe you're right yes , I judge you ARE right . 
All right , they said , and cleared out to lay for their uncles , and give them the love and the kisses , and tell them the message . 
Everything was all right now . 
I felt very good I judged I had done it pretty neat I reckoned Tom Sawyer couldn't a done it no neater himself . 
Of course he would a throwed more style into it , but I can't do that very handy , not being brung up to it . 
But by and by the thing dragged through , and everything was sold everything but a little old trifling lot in the graveyard . 
So they'd got to work that off I never see such a girafft as the king was for want ing to swallow EVERYTHING . 
THEY was fetching a very nice looking old gentle man along , and a nice looking younger one , with his right arm in a sling . 
And , my souls , how the people yelled and laughed , and kept it up . 
But I didn't see no joke about it , and I judged it would strain the duke and the king some to see any . 
I reckoned they'd turn pale . 
But no , nary a pale did THEY turn . 
Oh , he done it admirable . 
Lots of the principal people gethered around the king , to let him see they was on his side . 
That old gentleman that had just come looked all puz zled to death . 
Pretty soon he begun to speak , and I see straight off he pronounced LIKE an Englishman not the king's way , though the king's WAS pretty good for an imitation . 
We are who we say we are and in a day or two , when I get the baggage , I can prove it . 
But up till then I won't say nothing more , but go to the hotel and wait . 
But what time o' day ? In the evenin' 'bout an hour er two before sun down . 
HOW'D you come ? I come down on the Susan Powell from Cincin nati . 
Well , then , how'd you come to be up at the Pint in the MORNIN' in a canoe ? I warn't up at the Pint in the mornin' . 
Several of them jumped for him and begged him not to talk that way to an old man and a preacher . 
Preacher be hanged , he's a fraud and a liar . 
He was up at the Pint that mornin' . 
I live up there , don't I ? Well , I was up there , and he was up there . 
He come in a canoe , along with Tim Collins and a boy . 
The doctor he up and says Would you know the boy again if you was to see him , Hines ? I reckon I would , but I don't know . 
Why , yonder he is , now . 
I know him perfectly easy . 
It was me he pointed at . 
The doctor says Neighbors , I don't know whether the new couple is frauds or not but if THESE two ain't frauds , I am an idiot , that's all . 
I think it's our duty to see that they don't get away from here till we've looked into this thing . 
Come along , Hines come along , the rest of you . 
We'll take these fellows to the tavern and affront them with t'other couple , and I reckon we'll find out SOMETHING before we get through . 
It was nuts for the crowd , though maybe not for the king's friends so we all started . 
The doctor he led me along by the hand , and was plenty kind enough , but he never let go my hand . 
We all got in a big room in the hotel , and lit up some candles , and fetched in the new couple . 
If they have , won't the complices get away with that bag of gold Peter Wilks left ? It ain't unlikely . 
If these men ain't frauds , they won't object to sending for that money and letting us keep it till they prove they're all right ain't that so ? Everybody agreed to that . 
So I judged they had our gang in a pretty tight place right at the outstart . 
The niggers stole it the very next mornin' after I had went down stairs and when I sold 'em I hadn't missed the money yit , so they got clean away with it . 
My servant here k'n tell you 'bout it , gentle men . 
The doctor and several said Shucks ! and I see nobody didn't altogether believe him . 
One man asked me if I see the niggers steal it . 
That was all they asked me . 
And by and by they had me up to tell what I knowed . 
The king he give me a left handed look out of the corner of his eye , and so I knowed enough to talk on the right side . 
I reckon you ain't used to lying , it don't seem to come handy what you want is practice . 
You do it pretty awkward . 
I didn't care nothing for the compliment , but I was glad to be let off , anyway . 
I'll take the order and send it , along with your brother's , and then they'll know it's all right . 
But he took the pen and wrote . 
So then the lawyer turns to the new old gentleman and says You and your brother please write a line or two and sign your names . 
The old gentleman wrote , but nobody couldn't read it . 
, and here's THIS old gentleman's hand writing , and anybody can tell , easy enough , HE didn't write them fact is , the scratches he makes ain't properly WRITING at all . 
Now , here's some letters from The new old gentleman says If you please , let me explain . 
Nobody can read my hand but my brother there so he copies for me . 
It's HIS hand you've got there , not mine . 
WELL ! says the lawyer , this IS a state of things . 
If he could use his right hand , you would see that he wrote his own letters and mine too . 
Look at both , please they're by the same hand . 
The lawyer done it , and says I believe it's so and if it ain't so , there's a heap stronger resemblance than I'd noticed before , anyway . 
Well , well , well ! I thought we was right on the track of a slution , but it's gone to grass , partly . 
But any way , one thing is proved THESE two ain't either of 'em Wilkses and he wagged his head towards the king and the duke . 
Well , what do you think ? That muleheaded old fool wouldn't give in THEN ! Indeed he wouldn't . 
Said it warn't no fair test . 
Is there anybody here that helped to lay out my br helped to lay out the late Peter Wilks for burying ? Yes , says somebody , me and Ab Turner done it . 
Says I to myself , NOW he'll throw up the sponge there ain't no more use . 
Well , did he ? A body can't hardly believe it , but he didn't . 
I reckon he thought he'd keep the thing up till he tired them people out , so they'd thin out , and him and the duke could break loose and get away . 
It's jest a small , thin , blue arrow that's what it is and if you don't look clost , you can't see it . 
NOW what do you say hey ? Well , I never see anything like that old blister for clean out and out cheek . 
Good ! says the old gentleman . 
, and a W , with dashes between them , so P B W and he marked them that way on a piece of paper . 
Come , ain't that what you saw ? Both of them spoke up again , and says No , we DIDN'T . 
We never seen any marks at all . 
But there warn't no getting away , you know . 
If they didn't find them I couldn't bear to think about it and yet , some how , I couldn't think about nothing else . 
He dragged me right along , he was so excited , and I had to run to keep up . 
When they got there they swarmed into the grave yard and washed over it like an overflow . 
And when they got to the grave they found they had about a hundred times as many shovels as they wanted , but nobody hadn't thought to fetch a lantern . 
But they sailed into digging anyway by the flicker of the light ning , and sent a man to the nearest house , a half a mile off , to borrow one . 
Hines he hurt my wrist dreadful pulling and tugging so , and I reckon he clean forgot I was in the world , he was so excited and panting . 
No light there the house all dark which made me feel sorry and disappointed , I didn't know why . 
She WAS the best girl I ever see , and had the most sand . 
It was a canoe , and warn't fastened with nothing but a rope . 
So I wilted right down on to the planks then , and give up and it was all I could do to keep from crying . 
It didn't seem no good for ME to stay I couldn't do nothing , and I didn't want to be hung if I could get away . 
So the king let go of me , and begun to cuss that town and everybody in it . 
But the duke says You better a blame' sight give YOURSELF a good cussing , for you're the one that's entitled to it most . 
You hain't done a thing from the start that had any sense in it , except coming out so cool and cheeky with that imaginary blue arrow mark . 
That WAS bright it was right down bully and it was the thing that saved us . 
After about a half a minute the king drawls out Leastways , I did . 
The duke says , the same way On the contrary , I did . 
You old scoundrel , I didn't , and you know I didn't . 
There , now ! Well , then , I b'lieve you . 
But you not only had it in mind to do it , but you DONE it . 
I wisht I never die if I done it , duke , and that's honest . 
I won't say I warn't goin' to do it , because I WAS but you I mean somebody got in ahead o' me . 
So the duke took his hands off and says If you ever deny it again I'll drown you . 
It's WELL for you to set there and blubber like a baby it's fitten for you , after the way you've acted . 
I never see such an old ostrich for wanting to gobble every thing and I a trusting you all the time , like you was my own father . 
You ought to been ashamed of your self to stand by and hear it saddled on to a lot of poor niggers , and you never say a word for 'em . 
It makes me feel ridiculous to think I was soft enough to BELIEVE that rubbage . 
Dry up ! I don't want to hear no more out of you ! says the duke . 
And NOW you see what you GOT by it . 
They've got all their own money back , and all of OURN but a shekel or two BESIDES . 
They both got powerful mellow , but I noticed the king didn't get mellow enough to forget to remember to not deny about hiding the money bag again . 
That made me feel easy and satisfied . 
Of course when they got to snoring we had a long gabble , and I told Jim everything . 
WE dasn't stop again at any town for days and days kept right along down the river . 
We was down south in the warm weather now , and a mighty long ways from home . 
We begun to come to trees with Spanish moss on them , hanging down from the limbs like long , gray beards . 
It was the first I ever see it growing , and it made the woods look solemn and dismal . 
So now the frauds reckoned they was out of danger , and they begun to work the villages again . 
First they done a lecture on temperance but they didn't make enough for them both to get drunk on . 
Another time they tried to go at yellocution but they didn't yellocute long till the audience got up and give them a solid good cussing , and made them skip out . 
They tackled missionarying , and mesmeriz ing , and doctoring , and telling fortunes , and a little of everything but they couldn't seem to have no luck . 
And at last they took a change and begun to lay their heads together in the wigwam and talk low and confidential two or three hours at a time . 
Jim and me got uneasy . 
We didn't like the look of it . 
We judged they was studying up some kind of worse deviltry than ever . 
And he said if he warn't back by midday the duke and me would know it was all right , and we was to come along . 
So we stayed where we was . 
The duke he fretted and sweated around , and was in a mighty sour way . 
He scolded us for everything , and we couldn't seem to do nothing right he found fault with every little thing . 
Something was a brewing , sure . 
I was good and glad when midday come and no king we could have a change , anyway and maybe a chance for THE chance on top of it . 
Then I set down and cried I couldn't help it . 
But I couldn't set still long . 
Whereabouts ? says I. Down to Silas Phelps' place , two mile below here . 
He's a runaway nigger , and they've got him . 
Been there ever since afeard to come out . 
Well , he says , you needn't be afeard no more , becuz they've got him . 
He run off f'm down South , som'ers . 
It's a good job they got him . 
Well , I RECKON ! There's two hunderd dollars re ward on him . 
It's like picking up money out'n the road . 
Yes , it is and I could a had it if I'd been big enough I see him FIRST . 
Think o' that , now ! You bet I'D wait , if it was seven year . 
That's me , every time , says I. But maybe his chance ain't worth no more than that , if he'll sell it so cheap . 
Maybe there's something ain't straight about it . 
But it IS , though straight as a string . 
I see the handbill myself . 
It tells all about him , to a dot paints him like a picture , and tells the plantation he's frum , below NewrLEANS . 
No sirree BOB , they ain't no trouble 'bout THAT speculation , you bet you . 
Say , gimme a chaw tobacker , won't ye ? I didn't have none , so he left . 
I went to the raft , and set down in the wigwam to think . 
But I couldn't come to nothing . 
I thought till I wore my head sore , but I couldn't see no way out of the trouble . 
That's just the way a person does a low down thing , and then he don't want to take no consequences of it . 
Thinks as long as he can hide , it ain't no disgrace . 
That was my fix exactly . 
The more I studied about this the more my conscience went to grinding me , and the more wicked and low down and ornery I got to feel ing . 
And I about made up my mind to pray , and see if I couldn't try to quit being the kind of a boy I was and be better . 
But the words wouldn't come . 
Why wouldn't they ? It warn't no use to try and hide it from Him . 
Nor from ME , neither . 
I knowed very well why they wouldn't come . 
It was because my heart warn't right it was because I warn't square it was because I was playing double . 
I was letting ON to give up sin , but away inside of me I was holding on to the biggest one of all . 
You can't pray a lie I found that out . 
So I was full of trouble , full as I could be and didn't know what to do . 
At last I had an idea and I says , I'll go and write the letter and then see if I can pray . 
Why , it was astonishing , the way I felt as light as a feather right straight off , and my troubles all gone . 
I felt good and all washed clean of sin for the first time I had ever felt so in my life , and I knowed I could pray now . 
But somehow I couldn't seem to strike no places to harden me against him , but only the other kind . 
It was a close place . 
I took it up , and held it in my hand . 
I was a trembling , because I'd got to de cide , forever , betwixt two things , and I knowed it . 
I studied a minute , sort of holding my breath , and then says to myself All right , then , I'll GO to hell and tore it up . 
It was awful thoughts and awful words , but they was said . 
And I let them stay said and never thought no more about reforming . 
Then I set to thinking over how to get at it , and turned over some considerable many ways in my mind and at last fixed up a plan that suited me . 
But I didn't mind , because I didn't want to see nobody just yet I only wanted to get the lay of the land . 
According to my plan , I was going to turn up there from the village , not from below . 
So I just took a look , and shoved along , straight for town . 
Well , the very first man I see when I got there was the duke . 
He was sticking up a bill for the Royal Nonesuch three night performance like that other time . 
They had the cheek , them frauds ! I was right on him be fore I could shirk . 
Then he didn't look so joyful , and says What was your idea for asking ME ? he says . 
We didn't have no dog , and so we had to chase him all over the country till we tired him out . 
We never got him till dark then we fetched him over , and I started down for the raft . 
I slept in the woods all night . 
But what DID become of the raft , then ? and Jim poor Jim ! Blamed if I know that is , what's become of the raft . 
I wouldn't shake my NIGGER , would I ? the only nigger I had in the world , and the only property . 
We never thought of that . 
Fact is , I reckon we'd come to consider him OUR nigger yes , we did consider him so goodness knows we had trouble enough for him . 
So when we see the raft was gone and we flat broke , there warn't anything for it but to try the Royal Nonesuch another shake . 
And I've pegged along ever since , dry as a powder horn . 
Where's that ten cents ? Give it here . 
SOLD him ? I says , and begun to cry why , he was MY nigger , and that was my money . 
Where is he ? I want my nigger . 
Well , you can't GET your nigger , that's all so dry up your blubbering . 
Looky here do you think YOU'D venture to blow on us ? Blamed if I think I'd trust you . 
Why , if you WAS to blow on us He stopped , but I never see the duke look so ugly out of his eyes before . 
I went on a whimpering , and says I don't want to blow on nobody and I ain't got no time to blow , nohow . 
I got to turn out and find my nigger . 
He looked kinder bothered , and stood there with his bills fluttering on his arm , thinking , and wrinkling up his forehead . 
At last he says I'll tell you something . 
We got to be here three days . 
If you'll promise you won't blow , and won't let the nigger blow , I'll tell you where to find him . 
So I promised , and he says A farmer by the name of Silas Ph and then he stopped . 
You see , he started to tell me the truth but when he stopped that way , and begun to study and think again , I reckoned he was changing his mind . 
He wouldn't trust me he wanted to make sure of having me out of the way the whole three days . 
So pretty soon he says The man that bought him is named Abram Foster Abram G. Foster and he lives forty mile back here in the country , on the road to Lafayette . 
All right , I says , I can walk it in three days . 
And I'll start this very afternoon . 
No you wont , you'll start NOW and don't you lose any time about it , neither , nor do any gabbling by the way . 
I wanted to be left free to work my plans . 
So clear out , he says and you can tell Mr. Foster whatever you want to . 
Maybe you can get him to believe that Jim IS your nigger some idiots don't require documents leastways I've heard there's such down South here . 
And when you tell him the handbill and the reward's bogus , maybe he'll believe you when you explain to him what the idea was for getting 'em out . 
Go 'long now , and tell him anything you want to but mind you don't work your jaw any BETWEEN here and there . 
So I left , and struck for the back country . 
I didn't look around , but I kinder felt like he was watching me . 
But I knowed I could tire him out at that . 
I went straight out in the country as much as a mile before I stopped then I doubled back through the woods towards Phelps' . 
I reckoned I better start in on my plan straight off without fooling around , because I wanted to stop Jim's mouth till these fellows could get away . 
I didn't want no trouble with their kind . 
I'd seen all I wanted to of them , and wanted to get entirely shut of them . 
As a general thing it makes a body wish HE was dead , too , and done with it all . 
Phelps' was one of these little one horse cotton plan tations , and they all look alike . 
I went around and clumb over the back stile by the ash hopper , and started for the kitchen . 
When I got half way , first one hound and then another got up and went for me , and of course I stopped and faced them , and kept still . 
There ain't no harm in a hound , nohow . 
She was smiling all over so she could hardly stand and says It's YOU , at last ! AIN'T it ? I out with a Yes'm before I thought . 
But they ducked their heads , and put their fingers in their mouths , and hid behind her . 
So then she started for the house , leading me by the hand , and the children tagging after . 
What kep' you ? boat get aground ? Yes'm she Don't say yes'm say Aunt Sally . 
Where'd she get aground ? I didn't rightly know what to say , because I didn't know whether the boat would be coming up the river or down . 
But I go a good deal on instinct and my instinct said she would be coming up from down towards Orleans . 
That didn't help me much , though for I didn't know the names of bars down that way . 
We blowed out a cylinder head . 
Good gracious ! anybody hurt ? No'm . 
Well , it's lucky because sometimes people do get hurt . 
Two years ago last Christmas your uncle Silas was coming up from Newrleans on the old Lally Rook , and she blowed out a cylinder head and crippled a man . 
And I think he died afterwards . 
Your uncle Silas knowed a family in Baton Rouge that knowed his people very well . 
Yes , I remember now , he DID die . 
Mortification set in , and they had to amputate him . 
But it didn't save him . 
Yes , it was mortification that was it . 
He turned blue all over , and died in the hope of a glorious resurrection . 
They say he was a sight to look at . 
Your uncle's been up to the town every day to fetch you . 
And he's gone again , not more'n an hour ago he'll be back any minute now . 
You must a met him on the road , didn't you ? oldish man , with a No , I didn't see nobody , Aunt Sally . 
Who'd you give the baggage to ? Nobody . 
Why , child , it 'll be stole ! Not where I hid it I reckon it won't , I says . 
I was getting so uneasy I couldn't listen good . 
I had my mind on the children all the time I wanted to get them out to one side and pump them a little , and find out who I was . 
But I couldn't get no show , Mrs. Phelps kept it up and run on so . 
Well , I see I was up a stump and up it good . 
Providence had stood by me this fur all right , but I was hard and tight aground now . 
I see it warn't a bit of use to try to go ahead I'd got to throw up my hand . 
So I says to myself , here's another place where I got to resk the truth . 
Don't you let on you're here . 
I'll play a joke on him . 
Children , don't you say a word . 
I see I was in a fix now . 
But it warn't no use to worry there warn't nothing to do but just hold still , and try and be ready to stand from under when the lightning struck . 
I had just one little glimpse of the old gentleman when he come in then the bed hid him . 
Mrs. Phelps she jumps for him , and says Has he come ? No , says her husband . 
Uneasy ! she says I'm ready to go distracted ! He MUST a come and you've missed him along the road . 
I KNOW it's so something tells me so . 
Why , Sally , I COULDN'T miss him along the road YOU know that . 
But oh , dear , dear , what WILL Sis say ! He must a come ! You must a missed him . 
He Oh , don't distress me any more'n I'm already dis tressed . 
I don't know what in the world to make of it . 
I'm at my wit's end , and I don't mind acknowledging 't I'm right down scared . 
But there's no hope that he's come for he COULDN'T come and me miss him . 
The old gentleman stared , and says Why , who's that ? Who do you reckon 't is ? I hain't no idea . 
But if they was joyful , it warn't nothing to what I was for it was like being born again , I was so glad to find out who I was . 
And I ex plained all about how we blowed out a cylinder head at the mouth of White River , and it took us three days to fix it . 
Which was all right , and worked first rate be cause THEY didn't know but what it would take three days to fix it . 
If I'd a called it a bolthead it would a done just as well . 
Now I was feeling pretty comfortable all down one side , and pretty uncomfortable all up the other . 
Be ing Tom Sawyer was easy and comfortable , and it stayed easy and comfortable till by and by I hear a steamboat coughing along down the river . 
I must go up the road and waylay him . 
So I told the folks I reckoned I would go up to the town and fetch down my baggage . 
The old gentleman was for going along with me , but I said no , I could drive the horse myself , and I druther he wouldn't take no trouble about me . 
So , then , what you want to come back and ha'nt ME for ? I says I hain't come back I hain't been GONE . 
When he heard my voice it righted him up some , but he warn't quite satisfied yet . 
He says Don't you play nothing on me , because I wouldn't on you . 
Honest injun , you ain't a ghost ? Honest injun , I ain't , I says . 
Well I I well , that ought to settle it , of course but I can't somehow seem to understand it no way . 
Looky here , warn't you ever murdered AT ALL ? No. I warn't ever murdered at all I played it on them . 
You come in here and feel of me if you don't believe me . 
So he done it and it satisfied him and he was that glad to see me again he didn't know what to do . 
And he wanted to know all about it right off , because it was a grand adventure , and mysterious , and so it hit him where he lived . 
So he thought and thought , and pretty soon he says It's all right I've got it . 
I says All right but wait a minute . 
There's one more thing a thing that NOBODY don't know but me . 
And that is , there's a nigger here that I'm a trying to steal out of slavery , and his name is JIM old Miss Wat son's Jim . 
He says What ! Why , Jim is He stopped and went to studying . 
I says I know what you'll say . 
Will you ? His eye lit up , and he says I'll HELP you steal him ! Well , I let go all holts then , like I was shot . 
It was the most astonishing speech I ever heard and I'm bound to say Tom Sawyer fell considerable in my estimation . 
Only I couldn't believe it . 
Tom Sawyer a NIGGER STEALER ! Oh , shucks ! I says you're joking . 
I ain't joking , either . 
Then we took the trunk and put it in my wagon , and he drove off his way and I drove mine . 
But of course I forgot all about driving slow on accounts of being glad and full of thinking so I got home a heap too quick for that length of a trip . 
And she hain't sweated a hair not a hair . 
Why , I wouldn't take a hundred dollars for that horse now I wouldn't , honest and yet I'd a sold her for fifteen before , and thought 'twas all she was worth . 
He was the innocentest , best old soul I ever see . 
There was plenty other farmer preachers like that , and done the same way , down South . 
run and tell Lize to put on another plate for dinner . 
Tom was over the stile and starting for the house the wagon was spinning up the road for the village , and we was all bunched in the front door . 
Tom had his store clothes on , and an audience and that was always nuts for Tom Sawyer . 
In them circum stances it warn't no trouble to him to throw in an amount of style that was suitable . 
He warn't a boy to meeky along up that yard like a sheep no , he come ca'm and important , like the ram . 
Come in , come in . 
Tom he took a look back over his shoulder , and says , Too late he's out of sight . 
Yes , he's gone , my son , and you must come in and eat your dinner with us and then we'll hitch up and take you down to Nichols's . 
Oh , I CAN'T make you so much trouble I couldn't think of it . 
I'll walk I don't mind the distance . 
But we won't LET you walk it wouldn't be South ern hospitality to do it . 
Oh , DO , says Aunt Sally it ain't a bit of trouble to us , not a bit in the world . 
It's a long , dusty three mile , and we can't let you walk . 
And , besides , I've already told 'em to put on another plate when I see you coming so you mustn't disap point us . 
Come right in and make yourself at home . 
I didn't mean no harm . 
I I thought you'd like it . 
Why , you born fool ! She took up the spinning stick , and it looked like it was all she could do to keep from giving him a crack with it . 
What made you think I'd like it ? Well , I don't know . 
Only , they they told me you would . 
THEY told you I would . 
Whoever told you's ANOTHER lunatic . 
I never heard the beat of it . 
Who's THEY ? Why , everybody . 
They all said so , m'am . 
He got up and looked distressed , and fumbled his hat , and says I'm sorry , and I warn't expecting it . 
They all told me to . 
They all said , kiss her and said she'd like it . 
They all said it every one of them . 
But I'm sorry , m'am , and I won't do it no more I won't , honest . 
You won't , won't you ? Well , I sh'd RECKON you won't ! No'm , I'm honest about it I won't ever do it again till you ask me . 
Well , he says , it does surprise me so . 
I can't make it out , somehow . 
They said you would , and I thought you would . 
And after they got a little quiet again she says Why , dear me , I never see such a surprise . 
We warn't looking for YOU at all , but only Tom . 
Sis never wrote to me about anybody coming but him . 
But it was a mistake , Aunt Sally . 
This ain't no healthy place for a stranger to come . 
No not impudent whelps , Sid . 
You ought to had your jaws boxed I hain't been so put out since I don't know when . 
But I don't care , I don't mind the terms I'd be willing to stand a thousand such jokes to have you here . 
Well , to think of that per formance ! I don't deny it , I was most putrified with astonishment when you give me that smack . 
So there it was ! but I couldn't help it . 
It was a dreadful thing to see . 
Human beings CAN be awful cruel to one another . 
We see we was too late couldn't do no good . 
But that's always the way it don't make no difference whether you do right or wrong , a person's conscience ain't got no sense , and just goes for him anyway . 
If I had a yaller dog that didn't know no more than a person's conscience does I would pison him . 
It takes up more room than all the rest of a person's insides , and yet ain't no good , nohow . 
Tom Sawyer he says the same . 
WE stopped talking , and got to thinking . 
By and by Tom says Looky here , Huck , what fools we are to not think of it before ! I bet I know where Jim is . 
No ! Where ? In that hut down by the ash hopper . 
When we was at dinner , didn't you see a nigger man go in there with some vittles ? Yes . 
What did you think the vittles was for ? For a dog . 
So 'd I. Well , it wasn't for a dog . 
Why ? Because part of it was watermelon . 
So it was I noticed it . 
Well , it does beat all that I never thought about a dog not eating water melon . 
It shows how a body can see and don't see at the same time . 
Well , the nigger unlocked the padlock when he went in , and he locked it again when he came out . 
He fetched uncle a key about the time we got up from table same key , I bet . 
Watermelon shows man , lock shows prisoner and it ain't likely there's two prisoners on such a little plantation , and where the people's all so kind and good . 
All right I'm glad we found it out detective fashion I wouldn't give shucks for any other way . 
Now you work your mind , and study out a plan to steal Jim , and I will study out one , too and we'll take the one we like the best . 
I went to thinking out a plan , but only just to be doing something I knowed very well where the right plan was going to come from . 
Pretty soon Tom says Ready ? Yes , I says . 
All right bring it out . 
My plan is this , I says . 
We can easy find out if it's Jim in there . 
Then get up my canoe to morrow night , and fetch my raft over from the island . 
Wouldn't that plan work ? WORK ? Why , cert'nly it would work , like rats a fighting . 
But it's too blame' simple there ain't nothing TO it . 
What's the good of a plan that ain't no more trouble than that ? It's as mild as goose milk . 
Why , Huck , it wouldn't make no more talk than break ing into a soap factory . 
I never said nothing , because I warn't expecting noth ing different but I knowed mighty well that whenever he got HIS plan ready it wouldn't have none of them objections to it . 
So I was satisfied , and said we would waltz in on it . 
I needn't tell what it was here , because I knowed it wouldn't stay the way , it was . 
I knowed he would be changing it around every which way as we went along , and heaving in new bull inesses wherever he got a chance . 
And that is what he done . 
Well , one thing was dead sure , and that was that Tom Sawyer was in earnest , and was actuly going to help steal that nigger out of slavery . 
That was the thing that was too many for me . 
I COULDN'T understand it no way at all . 
And I DID start to tell him but he shut me up , and says Don't you reckon I know what I'm about ? Don't I generly know what I'm about ? Yes . 
Didn't I SAY I was going to help steal the nigger ? Yes . 
That's all he said , and that's all I said . 
It warn't no use to say any more because when he said he'd do a thing , he always done it . 
But I couldn't make out how he was willing to go into this thing so I just let it go , and never bothered no more about it . 
If he was bound to have it so , I couldn't help it . 
When we got home the house was all dark and still so we went on down to the hut by the ash hopper for to examine it . 
We went through the yard so as to see what the hounds would do . 
They knowed us , and didn't make no more noise than country dogs is always doing when anything comes by in the night . 
I says Here's the ticket . 
This hole's big enough for Jim to get through if we wrench off the board . 
Tom says It's as simple as tit tat toe , three in a row , and as easy as playing hooky . 
I should HOPE we can find a way that's a little more complicated than THAT , Huck Finn . 
Well , then , I says , how 'll it do to saw him out , the way I done before I was murdered that time ? That's more LIKE , he says . 
It's real mysterious , and troublesome , and good , he says but I bet we can find a way that's twice as long . 
There ain't no hurry le's keep on looking around . 
Betwixt the hut and the fence , on the back side , was a lean to that joined the hut at the eaves , and was made out of plank . 
It was as long as the hut , but narrow only about six foot wide . 
The door to it was at the south end , and was padlocked . 
Tom he went to the soap kettle and searched around , and fetched back the iron thing they lift the lid with so he took it and prized out one of the staples . 
The match went out , and so did we , and shoved in the staple again , and the door was locked as good as ever . 
He says Now we're all right . 
This nigger had a good natured , chuckle headed face , and his wool was all tied up in little bunches with thread . 
That was to keep witches off . 
He got so worked up , and got to running on so about his troubles , he forgot all about what he'd been a going to do . 
Does you want to go en look at 'im ? Yes . 
I hunched Tom , and whispers You going , right here in the daybreak ? THAT warn't the plan . 
No , it warn't but it's the plan NOW . 
So , drat him , we went along , but I didn't like it much . 
Tom he looked at the nigger , steady and kind of wondering , and says Does WHO know us ? Why , dis yer runaway nigger . 
Not a word ? No , sah , I hain't said a word . 
Did you ever see us before ? No , sah not as I knows on . 
Dey's awluz at it , sah , en dey do mos' kill me , dey sk'yers me so . 
Please to don't tell nobody 'bout it sah , er ole Mars Silas he'll scole me 'kase he say dey AIN'T no witches . 
I jis' wish to good ness he was heah now DEN what would he say ! I jis' bet he couldn' fine no way to git aroun' it DIS time . 
If I was to catch a nigger that was ungrateful enough to run away , I wouldn't give him up , I'd hang him . 
And if you hear any digging going on nights , it's us we're going to set you free . 
And so it makes it so rotten difficult to get up a difficult plan . 
There ain't no watch man to be drugged now there OUGHT to be a watch man . 
There ain't even a dog to give a sleeping mix ture to . 
And Uncle Silas he trusts everybody sends the key to the punkin headed nigger , and don't send nobody to watch the nigger . 
Jim could a got out of that window hole before this , only there wouldn't be no use trying to travel with a ten foot chain on his leg . 
Why , drat it , Huck , it's the stupidest arrangement I ever see . 
You got to invent ALL the difficulties . 
Well , we can't help it we got to do the best we can with the materials we've got . 
Now look at just that one thing of the lantern . 
When you come down to the cold facts , we simply got to LET ON that a lantern's resky . 
Why , we could work with a torchlight procession if we wanted to , I believe . 
Now , whilst I think of it , we got to hunt up something to make a saw out of the first chance we get . 
Well , if that ain't just like you , Huck Finn . 
You CAN get up the infant schooliest ways of going at a thing . 
Why , hain't you ever read any books at all ? Baron Trenck , nor Casanova , nor Benvenuto Chel leeny , nor Henri IV . 
Then , the night you're ready , fetch the leg a kick , down she goes slip off your chain , and there you are . 
I wish there was a moat to this cabin . 
If we get time , the night of the escape , we'll dig one . 
I says What do we want of a moat when we're going to snake him out from under the cabin ? But he never heard me . 
He had forgot me and everything else . 
He had his chin in his hand , thinking . 
Pretty soon he sighs and shakes his head then sighs again , and says No , it wouldn't do there ain't necessity enough for it . 
For what ? I says . 
Why , to saw Jim's leg off , he says . 
Good land ! I says why , there ain't NO neces sity for it . 
And what would you want to saw his leg off for , anyway ? Well , some of the best authorities has done it . 
They couldn't get the chain off , so they just cut their hand off and shoved . 
And a leg would be better still . 
But we got to let that go . 
But there's one thing he can have a rope ladder we can tear up our sheets and make him a rope ladder easy enough . 
And we can send it to him in a pie it's mostly done that way . 
And I've et worse pies . 
Why , Tom Sawyer , how you talk , I says Jim ain't got no use for a rope ladder . 
He HAS got use for it . 
How YOU talk , you better say you don't know nothing about it . 
He's GOT to have a rope ladder they all do . 
Huck , you don't ever seem to want to do anything that's regular you want to be starting something fresh all the time . 
And you wouldn't leave them any ? That would be a PRETTY howdy do , WOULDN'T it ! I never heard of such a thing . 
Who ever heard of a state prisoner escaping by a hickry bark ladder ? Why , it's perfectly ridiculous . 
Well , all right , Tom , fix it your own way but if you'll take my advice , you'll let me borrow a sheet off of the clothesline . 
He said that would do . 
And that gave him another idea , and he says Borrow a shirt , too . 
What do we want of a shirt , Tom ? Want it for Jim to keep a journal on . 
Journal your granny JIM can't write . 
PRISONERS don't have geese running around the donjon keep to pull pens out of , you muggins . 
THEY wouldn't use a goose quill if they had it . 
The Iron Mask always done that , and it's a blame' good way , too . 
Jim ain't got no tin plates . 
They feed him in a pan . 
That ain't nothing we can get him some . 
Can't nobody READ his plates . 
That ain't got anything to DO with it , Huck Finn . 
All HE'S got to do is to write on the plate and throw it out . 
You don't HAVE to be able to read it . 
Why , half the time you can't read anything a prisoner writes on a tin plate , or anywhere else . 
Well , then , what's the sense in wasting the plates ? Why , blame it all , it ain't the PRISONER'S plates . 
But it's SOMEBODY'S plates , ain't it ? Well , spos'n it is ? What does the PRISONER care whose He broke off there , because we heard the breakfast horn blowing . 
So we cleared out for the house . 
I called it borrowing , because that was what pap always called it but Tom said it warn't borrowing , it was stealing . 
He said we was representing prisoners and prisoners don't care how they get a thing so they get it , and nobody don't blame them for it , either . 
He said if we warn't prisoners it would be a very different thing , and nobody but a mean , ornery person would steal when he warn't a prisoner . 
So we allowed we would steal every thing there was that come handy . 
Tom said that what he meant was , we could steal anything we NEEDED . 
Well , I says , I needed the watermelon . 
But he said I didn't need it to get out of prison with there's where the difference was . 
He said if I'd a wanted it to hide a knife in , and smuggle it to Jim to kill the seneskal with , it would a been all right . 
By and by he come out , and we went and set down on the woodpile to talk . 
He says Everything's all right now except tools and that's easy fixed . 
Tools for what ? Why , to dig with . 
We ain't a going to GNAW him out , are we ? Ain't them old crippled picks and things in there good enough to dig a nigger out with ? I says . 
Picks and shovels why , they wouldn't furnish 'em to a king . 
Well , then , I says , if we don't want the picks and shovels , what do we want ? A couple of case knives . 
To dig the foundations out from under that cabin with ? Yes . 
Confound it , it's foolish , Tom . 
It don't make no difference how foolish it is , it's the RIGHT way and it's the regular way . 
And there ain't no OTHER way , that ever I heard of , and I've read all the books that gives any information about these things . 
They always dig out with a case knife and not through dirt , mind you generly it's through solid rock . 
And it takes them weeks and weeks and weeks , and for ever and ever . 
A month and a half . 
THIRTY SEVEN YEAR and he come out in China . 
I wish the bottom of THIS fortress was solid rock . 
JIM don't know nobody in China . 
What's THAT got to do with it ? Neither did that other fellow . 
But you're always a wandering off on a side issue . 
Why can't you stick to the main point ? All right I don't care where he comes out , so he COMES out and Jim don't , either , I reckon . 
But there's one thing , anyway Jim's too old to be dug out with a case knife . 
Yes he will LAST , too . 
He'll hear Jim ain't from there . 
Then his next move will be to advertise Jim , or something like that . 
So we can't resk being as long digging him out as we ought to . 
By rights I reckon we ought to be a couple of years but we can't . 
Then we can snatch him out and rush him away the first time there's an alarm . 
Yes , I reckon that 'll be the best way . 
Now , there's SENSE in that , I says . 
Letting on don't cost nothing letting on ain't no trouble and if it's any object , I don't mind letting on we was at it a hundred and fifty year . 
It wouldn't strain me none , after I got my hand in . 
So I'll mosey along now , and smouch a couple of case knives . 
Smouch three , he says we want one to make a saw out of . 
Tom , if it ain't unregular and irreligious to sejest it , I says , there's an old rusty saw blade around yonder sticking under the weather boarding behind the smoke house . 
He looked kind of weary and discouraged like , and says It ain't no use to try to learn you nothing , Huck . 
Run along and smouch the knives three of them . 
We cleared everything out of the way , about four or five foot along the mid dle of the bottom log . 
At last I says This ain't no thirty seven year job this is a thirty eight year job , Tom Sawyer . 
But he sighed , and pretty soon he stopped digging , and then for a good little while I knowed that he was thinking . 
Then he says It ain't no use , Huck , it ain't a going to work . 
But WE can't fool along we got to rush we ain't got no time to spare . 
If we was to put in another night this way we'd have to knock off for a week to let our hands get well couldn't touch a case knife with them sooner . 
Well , then , what we going to do , Tom ? I'll tell you . 
It ain't right , and it ain't moral , . 
and I wouldn't like it to get out but there ain't only just the one way we got to dig him out with the picks , and LET ON it's case knives . 
NOW you're TALKING ! I says your head gets leveler and leveler all the time , Tom Sawyer , I says . 
Picks is the thing , moral or no moral and as for me , I don't care shucks for the morality of it , nohow . 
When I start in to steal a nigger , or a water melon , or a Sunday school book , I ain't no ways particular how it's done so it's done . 
He had his own by him , but I handed him mine . 
He flung it down , and says Gimme a CASE KNIFE . 
I didn't know just what to do but then I thought . 
I scratched around amongst the old tools , and got a pickaxe and give it to him , and he took it and went to work , and never said a word . 
He was always just that particular . 
So then I got a shovel , and then we picked and shoveled , turn about , and made the fur fly . 
We stuck to it about a half an hour , which was as long as we could stand up but we had a good deal of a hole to show for it . 
At last he says It ain't no use , it can't be done . 
What you reckon I better do ? Can't you think of no way ? Yes , I says , but I reckon it ain't regular . 
Come up the stairs , and let on it's a lightning rod . 
Then he says Now , the thing to study out is , how to get the things to Jim . 
Take them in through the hole , I says , when we get it done . 
He only just looked scornful , and said something about nobody ever heard of such an idiotic idea , and then he went to studying . 
By and by he said he had ciphered out two or three ways , but there warn't no need to decide on any of them yet . 
Said we'd got to post Jim first . 
Then we whirled in with the pick and shovel , and in about two hours and a half the job was done . 
We'll send you some things by them . 
I said , Don't do nothing of the kind it's one of the most jackass ideas I ever struck but he never paid no attention to me went right on . 
It was his way when he'd got his plans set . 
And told him how to keep a journal on the shirt with his blood , and all that . 
Tom was in high spirits . 
He said that in that way it could be strung out to as much as eighty year , and would be the best time on record . 
And he said it would make us all celebrated that had a hand in it . 
In the morning we went out to the woodpile and chopped up the brass candlestick into handy sizes , and Tom put them and the pewter spoon in his pocket . 
Then he went to work on the nigger , coaxing him and petting him , and asking him if he'd been imagining he saw something again . 
I did , mos' sholy . 
Mars Sid , I FELT um I FELT um , sah dey was all over me . 
Dad fetch it , I jis' wisht I could git my han's on one er dem witches jis' wunst on'y jis' wunst it's all I'd ast . 
But mos'ly I wisht dey'd lemme 'lone , I does . 
Tom says Well , I tell you what I think . 
What makes them come here just at this runaway nigger's breakfast time ? It's because they're hungry that's the reason . 
You make them a witch pie that's the thing for YOU to do . 
But my lan' , Mars Sid , how's I gwyne to make 'm a witch pie ? I doan' know how to make it . 
I hain't ever hearn er sich a thing b'fo' . 
Well , then , I'll have to make it myself . 
But you got to be mighty careful . 
When we come around , you turn your back and then whatever we've put in the pan , don't you let on you see it at all . 
And don't you look when Jim unloads the pan something might happen , I don't know what . 
And above all , don't you HANDLE the witch things . 
But after that we was all right again it was the sudden surprise of it that knocked us so kind of cold . 
Uncle Silas he says It's most uncommon curious , I can't understand it . 
I know perfectly well I took it OFF , because Because you hain't got but one ON . 
And it 'll be the third I've made in two years . 
It just keeps a body on the jump to keep you in shirts and whatever you do manage to DO with 'm all is more'n I can make out . 
A body 'd think you WOULD learn to take some sort of care of 'em at your time of life . 
I know it , Sally , and I do try all I can . 
Well , it ain't YOUR fault if you haven't , Silas you'd a done it if you could , I reckon . 
And the shirt ain't all that's gone , nuther . 
Ther's a spoon gone and THAT ain't all . 
There was ten , and now ther's only nine . 
The calf got the shirt , I reckon , but the calf never took the spoon , THAT'S certain . 
Why , what else is gone , Sally ? Ther's six CANDLES gone that's what . 
Well , Sally , I'm in fault , and I acknowledge it I've been remiss but I won't let to morrow go by without stopping up them holes . 
Oh , I wouldn't hurry next year 'll do . 
Matilda Angelina Araminta PHELPS ! Whack comes the thimble , and the child snatches her claws out of the sugar bowl without fooling around any . 
Just then the nigger woman steps on to the passage , and says Missus , dey's a sheet gone . 
A SHEET gone ! Well , for the land's sake ! I'll stop up them holes to day , says Uncle Silas , looking sorrowful . 
Oh , DO shet up ! s'pose the rats took the SHEET ? WHERE'S it gone , Lize ? Clah to goodness I hain't no notion , Miss' Sally . 
She wuz on de clo'sline yistiddy , but she done gone she ain' dah no mo' now . 
I reckon the world IS coming to an end . 
I NEVER see the beat of it in all my born days . 
A shirt , and a sheet , and a spoon , and six can Missus , comes a young yaller wench , dey's a brass cannelstick miss'n . 
Cler out from here , you hussy , er I'll take a skillet to ye ! Well , she was just a biling . 
I begun to lay for a chance I reckoned I would sneak out and go for the woods till the weather moderated . 
She stopped , with her mouth open and her hands up and as for me , I wished I was in Jeruslem or somewheres . 
But not long , because she says It's JUST as I expected . 
So you had it in your pocket all the time and like as not you've got the other things there , too . 
How'd it get there ? I reely don't know , Sally , he says , kind of apologizing , or you know I would tell . 
I'D a heard her if she'd a said it to herself , let alone speaking it out and I'd a got up and obeyed her if I'd a been dead . 
Tom see him do it , and remembered about the spoon , and says Well , it ain't no use to send things by HIM no more , he ain't reliable . 
There was a noble good lot of them down cellar , and it took us a whole hour , but we done the job tight and good and shipshape . 
He went a mooning around , first to one rat hole and then another , till he'd been to them all . 
Then he stood about five minutes , picking tallow drip off of his candle and thinking . 
Then he turns off slow and dreamy towards the stairs , saying Well , for the life of me I can't remember when I done it . 
I could show her now that I warn't to blame on account of the rats . 
But never mind let it go . 
I reckon it wouldn't do no good . 
And so he went on a mumbling up stairs , and then we left . 
He was a mighty nice old man . 
Tom was a good deal bothered about what to do for a spoon , but he said we'd got to have it so he took a think . 
She says Go 'long to your play , and don't bother me . 
I know better , I counted 'm myself . 
Well , I've counted them twice , Aunty , and I can't make but nine . 
She looked out of all patience , but of course she come to count anybody would . 
I declare to gracious ther' AIN'T but nine ! she says . 
Why , what in the world plague TAKE the things , I'll count 'm again . 
But Tom says Why , Aunty , I don't think there's ten . 
You numskull , didn't you see me COUNT 'm ? I know , but Well , I'll count 'm AGAIN . 
So I smouched one , and they come out nine , same as the other time . 
Well , she WAS in a tearing way just a trembling all over , she was so mad . 
But that pie was a job we had no end of trouble with that pie . 
But of course we thought of the right way at last which was to cook the ladder , too , in the pie . 
We let on it took nine months to make it . 
And in the forenoon we took it down to the woods , but it wouldn't go into the pie . 
We could a had a whole dinner . 
But we didn't need it . 
All we needed was just enough for the pie , and so we throwed the rest away . 
MAKING them pens was a distressid tough job , and so was the saw and Jim allowed the in scription was going to be the toughest of all . 
That's the one which the prisoner has to scrabble on the wall . 
But he had to have it Tom said he'd GOT to there warn't no case of a state prisoner not scrabbling his inscription to leave behind , and his coat of arms . 
Oh , you don't understand , Jim a coat of arms is very different . 
Well , I says , Jim's right , anyway , when he says he ain't got no coat of arms , because he hain't . 
By and by he said he'd struck so many good ones he didn't hardly know which to take , but there was one which he reckoned he'd decide on . 
Got it out of a book means the more haste the less speed . 
Well , anyway , I says , what's SOME of it ? What's a fess ? A fess a fess is YOU don't need to know what a fess is . 
I'll show him how to make it when he gets to it . 
Shucks , Tom , I says , I think you might tell a person . 
What's a bar sinister ? Oh , I don't know . 
But he's got to have it . 
That was just his way . 
If it didn't suit him to ex plain a thing to you , he wouldn't do it . 
You might pump at him a week , it wouldn't make no difference . 
He made up a lot , and wrote them out on a paper , and read them off , so . 
Here a captive heart busted . 
Here a poor prisoner , forsook by the world and friends , fretted his sorrowful life . 
Here a lonely heart broke , and a worn spirit went to its rest , after thirty seven years of solitary captivity . 
Here , homeless and friendless , after thirty seven years of bitter captivity , perished a noble stranger , natural son of Louis XIV . 
Tom's voice trembled whilst he was reading them , and he most broke down . 
Then pretty soon he says Come to think , the logs ain't a going to do they don't have log walls in a dungeon we got to dig the inscriptions into a rock . 
Jim said the rock was worse than the logs he said it would take him such a pison long time to dig them into a rock he wouldn't ever get out . 
But Tom said he would let me help him do it . 
Then he took a look to see how me and Jim was getting along with the pens . 
We got to have a rock for the coat of arms and mournful inscriptions , and we can kill two birds with that same rock . 
It warn't no slouch of an idea and it warn't no slouch of a grindstone nuther but we allowed we'd tackle it . 
It warn't quite midnight yet , so we cleared out for the mill , leaving Jim at work . 
We smouched the grindstone , and set out to roll her home , but it was a most nation tough job . 
Sometimes , do what we could , we couldn't keep her from falling over , and she come mighty near mashing us every time . 
Tom said she was going to get one of us , sure , before we got through . 
We got her half way and then we was plumb played out , and most drownded with sweat . 
He could out superintend any boy I ever see . 
He knowed how to do everything . 
Our hole was pretty big , but it warn't big enough to get the grindstone through but Jim he took the pick and soon made it big enough . 
Then we helped him fix his chain back on the bed leg , and was ready for bed ourselves . 
But Tom thought of something , and says You got any spiders in here , Jim ? No , sah , thanks to goodness I hain't , Mars Tom . 
All right , we'll get you some . 
But bless you , honey , I doan' WANT none . 
I jis' 's soon have rattlesnakes aroun' . 
Tom thought a minute or two , and says It's a good idea . 
And I reckon it's been done . 
It MUST a been done it stands to reason . 
Yes , it's a prime good idea . 
Where could you keep it ? Keep what , Mars Tom ? Why , a rattlesnake . 
Why , Jim , you wouldn't be afraid of it after a little . 
TAME it ! Yes easy enough . 
Every animal is grateful for kindness and petting , and they wouldn't THINK of hurt ing a person that pets them . 
Any book will tell you that . 
You try that's all I ask just try for two or three days . 
En mo' en dat , I doan' WANT him to sleep wid me . 
Jim , don't act so foolish . 
Why , Mars Tom , I doan' WANT no sich glory . 
Snake take 'n bite Jim's chin off , den WHAH is de glory ? No , sah , I doan' want no sich doin's . 
Blame it , can't you TRY ? I only WANT you to try you needn't keep it up if it don't work . 
But de trouble all DONE ef de snake bite me while I's a tryin' him . 
Well , then , let it go , let it go , if you're so bull headed about it . 
We can get you some garter snakes , and you can tie some buttons on their tails , and let on they're rattlesnakes , and I reckon that 'll have to do . 
I k'n stan' DEM , Mars Tom , but blame' 'f I couldn' get along widout um , I tell you dat . 
I never knowed b'fo' 't was so much bother and trouble to be a prisoner . 
Well , it ALWAYS is when it's done right . 
You got any rats around here ? No , sah , I hain't seed none . 
Well , we'll get you some rats . 
Why , Mars Tom , I doan' WANT no rats . 
Dey's de dadblamedest creturs to 'sturb a body , en rustle roun' over 'im , en bite his feet , when he's tryin' to sleep , I ever see . 
No , sah , gimme g'yarter snakes , 'f I's got to have 'm , but doan' gimme no rats I hain' got no use f'r um , skasely . 
But , Jim , you GOT to have 'em they all do . 
So don't make no more fuss about it . 
Prisoners ain't ever without rats . 
There ain't no instance of it . 
And they train them , and pet them , and learn them tricks , and they get to be as sociable as flies . 
But you got to play music to them . 
THEY don't care what kind of music 'tis . 
A jews harp's plenty good enough for a rat . 
All animals like music in a prison they dote on it . 
Specially , painful music and you can't get no other kind out of a jews harp . 
It always interests them they come out to see what's the matter with you . 
Yes , you're all right you're fixed very well . 
And they'll just fairly swarm over you , and have a noble good time . 
Yes , DEY will , I reck'n , Mars Tom , but what kine er time is JIM havin' ? Blest if I kin see de pint . 
But I'll do it ef I got to . 
I reck'n I better keep de animals satisfied , en not have no trouble in de house . 
Tom waited to think it over , and see if there wasn't nothing else and pretty soon he says Oh , there's one thing I forgot . 
Well , you try it , anyway . 
Some other prisoners has done it . 
One er dem big cat tail lookin' mullen stalks would grow in heah , Mars Tom , I reck'n , but she wouldn't be wuth half de trouble she'd coss . 
We'll fetch you a little one and you plant it in the corner over there , and raise it . 
And don't call it mullen , call it Pitchiola that's its right name when it's in a prison . 
And you want to water it with your tears . 
Why , I got plenty spring water , Mars Tom . 
You don't WANT spring water you want to water it with your tears . 
It's the way they always do . 
Why , Mars Tom , I lay I kin raise one er dem mullen stalks twyste wid spring water whiles another man's a START'N one wid tears . 
You GOT to do it with tears . 
She'll die on my han's , Mars Tom , she sholy will kase I doan' skasely ever cry . 
But he studied it over , and then said Jim would have to worry along the best he could with an onion . 
He promised he would go to the nigger cabins and drop one , private , in Jim's coffee pot , in the morning . 
So Jim he was sorry , and said he wouldn't behave so no more , and then me and Tom shoved for bed . 
I never see a likelier lot of rats than what that first haul was . 
The family was at home . 
Then we got allycumpain and rubbed on the places , and was pretty near all right again , but couldn't set down convenient . 
But it didn't matter much , because they was still on the premises somewheres . 
So we judged we could get some of them again . 
No , there warn't no real scarcity of snakes about the house for a consider able spell . 
I never see such a woman . 
And you could hear her whoop to Jericho . 
You couldn't get her to take a holt of one of them with the tongs . 
And if she turned over and found one in bed she would scramble out and lift a howl that you would think the house was afire . 
She disturbed the old man so that he said he could most wish there hadn't ever been no snakes created . 
But Tom said all women was just so . 
He said they was made that way for some reason or other . 
I didn't mind the lickings , because they didn't amount to nothing but I minded the trouble we had to lay in another lot . 
Jim didn't like the spiders , and the spiders didn't like Jim and so they'd lay for him , and make it mighty warm for him . 
He said if he ever got out this time he wouldn't ever be a prisoner again , not for a salary . 
Well , by the end of three weeks everything was in pretty good shape . 
We reckoned we was all going to die , but didn't . 
It was the most undigestible sawdust I ever see and Tom said the same . 
But as I was saying , we'd got all the work done now , at last and we was all pretty much fagged out , too , but mainly Jim . 
Louis and New Orleans papers and when he mentioned the St . 
Louis ones it give me the cold shivers , and I see we hadn't no time to lose . 
So Tom said , now for the nonnamous letters . 
What's them ? I says . 
Warnings to the people that something is up . 
Sometimes it's done one way , sometimes another . 
But there's always somebody spying around that gives notice to the governor of the castle . 
was going to light out of the Tooleries a servant girl done it . 
It's a very good way , and so is the nonnamous letters . 
And it's usual for the prisoner's mother to change clothes with him , and she stays in , and he slides out in her clothes . 
We'll do that , too . 
But looky here , Tom , what do we want to WARN anybody for that something's up ? Let them find it out for themselves it's their lookout . 
Yes , I know but you can't depend on them . 
It's the way they've acted from the very start left us to do EVERYTHING . 
They're so confiding and mullet headed they don't take notice of nothing at all . 
Well , as for me , Tom , that's the way I'd like . 
Shucks ! he says , and looked disgusted . 
So I says But I ain't going to make no complaint . 
Any way that suits you suits me . 
What you going to do about the servant girl ? You'll be her . 
You slide in , in the middle of the night , and hook that yaller girl's frock . 
Why , Tom , that 'll make trouble next morning because , of course , she prob'bly hain't got any but that one . 
I know but you don't want it but fifteen minutes , to carry the nonnamous letter and shove it under the front door . 
All right , then , I'll do it but I could carry it just as handy in my own togs . 
You wouldn't look like a servant girl THEN , would you ? No , but there won't be nobody to see what I look like , ANYWAY . 
That ain't got nothing to do with it . 
The thing for us to do is just to do our DUTY , and not worry about whether anybody SEES us do it or not . 
Hain't you got no principle at all ? All right , I ain't saying nothing I'm the servant girl . 
Who's Jim's mother ? I'm his mother . 
I'll hook a gown from Aunt Sally . 
Well , then , you'll have to stay in the cabin when me and Jim leaves . 
When a prisoner of style escapes it's called an evasion . 
It's always called so when a king escapes , f'rinstance . 
And the same with a king's son it don't make no differ ence whether he's a natural one or an unnatural one . 
I never see a family in such a sweat . 
They couldn't a been worse scared if the place had a been full of ghosts laying for them behind everything and under the beds and shivering through the air . 
So the thing was working very well , Tom said he said he never see a thing work more satisfactory . 
He said it showed it was done right . 
Tom he went down the lightning rod to spy around and the nigger at the back door was asleep , and he stuck it in the back of his neck and come back . 
This letter said Don't betray me , I wish to be your friend . 
I am one of the gang , but have got religgion and wish to quit it and lead an honest life again , and will betray the helish design . 
They will sneak down from northards , along the fence , at midnight exact , with a false key , and go in the nigger's cabin to get him . 
Don't do anything but just the way I am telling you if you do they will suspicion something and raise whoop jamboreehoo . 
I do not wish any reward but to know I have done the right thing . 
Well , you LEFT it laid out , then it ain't here . 
We can get along without it , I says . 
We can get along WITH it , too , he says just you slide down cellar and fetch it . 
And then mosey right down the lightning rod and come along . 
I'll go and stuff the straw into Jim's clothes to represent his mother in disguise , and be ready to BA like a sheep and shove soon as you get there . 
What you been doing down there ? Noth'n . 
Well , then , what possessed you to go down there this time of night ? I don't know 'm . 
You don't KNOW ? Don't answer me that way . 
Tom , I want to know what you been DOING down there . 
I hain't been doing a single thing , Aunt Sally , I hope to gracious if I have . 
You been up to something you no business to , and I lay I'll find out what it is before I'M done with you . 
So she went away as I opened the door and walked into the setting room . 
My , but there was a crowd there ! Fifteen farmers , and every one of them had a gun . 
I was most powerful sick , and slunk to a chair and set down . 
I warn't easy myself , but I didn't take my hat off , all the same . 
Where's Jim ? Right at your elbow if you reach out your arm you can touch him . 
He's dressed , and everything's ready . 
Now we'll slide out and give the sheep signal . 
So in they come , but couldn't see us in the dark , and most trod on us whilst we was hustling to get under the bed . 
But we got under all right , and out through the hole , swift but soft Jim first , me next , and Tom last , which was according to Tom's orders . 
Now we was in the lean to , and heard trampings close by out side . 
We could hear them because they wore boots and yelled , but we didn't wear no boots and didn't yell . 
And when we stepped on to the raft I says NOW , old Jim , you're a free man again , and I bet you won't ever be a slave no more . 
En a mighty good job it wuz , too , Huck . 
It 'uz planned beautiful , en it 'uz done beautiful en dey ain't NOBODY kin git up a plan dat's mo' mixed up en splendid den what dat one wuz . 
We was all glad as we could be , but Tom was the gladdest of all because he had a bullet in the calf of his leg . 
When me and Jim heard that we didn't feel so brash as what we did before . 
I wish WE'D a had the handling of Louis XVI . 
Man the sweeps man the sweeps ! But me and Jim was consulting and thinking . 
And after we'd thought a minute , I says Say it , Jim . 
So he says Well , den , dis is de way it look to me , Huck . 
Then he give us a piece of his mind , but it didn't do no good . 
It's the way they all do . 
So I said I would , and left , and Jim was to hide in the woods when he see the doctor coming till he was gone again . 
THE doctor was an old man a very nice , kind look ing old man when I got him up . 
Who is your folks ? he says . 
The Phelpses , down yonder . 
And after a minute , he says How'd you say he got shot ? He had a dream , I says , and it shot him . 
Singular dream , he says . 
So he lit up his lantern , and got his saddle bags , and we started . 
But when he sees the canoe he didn't like the look of her said she was big enough for one , but didn't look pretty safe for two . 
I says Oh , you needn't be afeard , sir , she carried the three of us easy enough . 
What three ? Why , me and Sid , and and and THE GUNS that's what I mean . 
But he put his foot on the gunnel and rocked her , and shook his head , and said he reckoned he'd look around for a bigger one . 
But I said I didn't so I told him just how to find the raft , and then he started . 
I struck an idea pretty soon . 
Well , thinks I , that looks powerful bad for Tom , and I'll dig out for the island right off . 
Why , where ever did you go ? he says . 
Your aunt's been mighty uneasy . 
She needn't , I says , because we was all right . 
And the place was plum full of farmers and farmers' wives , to dinner and such another clack a body never heard . 
Old Mrs. Hotchkiss was the worst her tongue was a going all the time . 
She says Well , Sister Phelps , I've ransacked that air cabin over , an' I b'lieve the nigger was crazy . 
I says to Sister Damrell didn't I , Sister Damrell ? s'I , he's crazy , s'I them's the very words I said . 
You all hearn me he's crazy , s'I everything shows it , s'I . 
Sh she , look at that air rag ladder , sh she 'n' s'I , yes , LOOK at it , s'I what COULD he a wanted of it , s'I . 
Without HELP , mind you 'thout HELP ! THAT'S wher 'tis . 
Why , they've stole everything they could lay their hands on and we a watching all the time , mind you . 
Why , SPERITS couldn't a done better and been no smarter . 
Why , they'd steal the very why , goodness sakes , you can guess what kind of a fluster I was in by the time midnight come last night . 
I hope to gracious if I warn't afraid they'd steal some o' the family ! I was just to that pass I didn't have no reason ing faculties no more . 
Says I to myself , I can explain better how we come to not be in that room this morning if I go out to one side and study over it a little . 
But I dasn't go fur , or she'd a sent for me . 
No you won't , she says . 
You'll stay right wher' you are ONE'S enough to be lost at a time . 
If he ain't here to supper , your uncle 'll go . 
Well , he warn't there to supper so right after supper uncle went . 
He come back about ten a little bit uneasy hadn't run across Tom's track . 
So she had to be satisfied . 
But she said she'd set up for him a while anyway , and keep a light burning so he could see it . 
Laws knows I WANTED to go bad enough to see about Tom , and was all intending to go but after that I wouldn't a went , not for kingdoms . 
But she was on my mind and Tom was on my mind , so I slept very restless . 
And by and by the old man says Did I give you the letter ? What letter ? The one I got yesterday out of the post office . 
No , you didn't give me no letter . 
Well , I must a forgot it . 
So he rummaged his pockets , and then went off some wheres where he had laid it down , and fetched it , and give it to her . 
She says Why , it's from St . 
I allowed another walk would do me good but I couldn't stir . 
But before she could break it open she dropped it and run for she see something . 
I hid the letter behind the first thing that come handy , and rushed . 
I followed the men to see what they was going to do with Jim and the old doctor and Uncle Silas followed after Tom into the house . 
But the others said , don't do it , it wouldn't answer at all he ain't our nigger , and his owner would turn up and make us pay for him , sure . 
I liked the nigger for that I tell you , gentlemen , a nigger like that is worth a thousand dollars and kind treatment , too . 
He ain't no bad nigger , gentlemen that's what I think about him . 
Somebody says Well , it sounds very good , doctor , I'm obleeged to say . 
Then they all agreed that Jim had acted very well , and was deserving to have some notice took of it , and reward . 
So every one of them promised , right out and hearty , that they wouldn't cuss him no more . 
Then they come out and locked him up . 
But I had plenty time . 
Aunt Sally she stuck to the sick room all day and all night , and every time I see Uncle Silas mooning around I dodged him . 
Next morning I heard Tom was a good deal better , and they said Aunt Sally was gone to get a nap . 
So I slips to the sick room , and if I found him awake I reckoned we could put up a yarn for the family that would wash . 
But he was sleeping , and sleeping very peaceful , too and pale , not fire faced the way he was when he come . 
So I set down and laid for him to wake . 
And JIM ? The same , I says , but couldn't say it pretty brash . 
What whole thing ? Why , THE whole thing . 
There ain't but one how we set the runaway nigger free me and Tom . 
We DID set him free me and Tom . 
We laid out to do it , and we DONE it . 
And we done it elegant , too . 
Why , Aunty , it cost us a power of work weeks of it hours and hours , every night , whilst you was all asleep . 
I've as good a notion as ever I had in my life to take it out o' you this very minute . 
With WHO ? Why , the runaway nigger , of course . 
I've knowed him all his life , and so has Tom , there . 
And then she says Yes , you BETTER turn y'r head away I would if I was you , Tom . 
You mean where's Huck FINN that's what you mean ! I reckon I hain't raised such a scamp as my Tom all these years not to know him when I SEE him . 
That WOULD be a pretty howdy do . 
Come out from under that bed , Huck Finn . 
And so it turned out , and he let on to be Sid , and made things as soft as he could for me . 
Why , I never heard nothing from you , says Aunt Sally . 
Well , I wonder ! Why , I wrote you twice to ask you what you could mean by Sid being here . 
Well , I never got 'em , Sis . 
Aunt Polly she turns around slow and severe , and says You , Tom ! Well WHAT ? he says , kind of pettish . 
Don t you what ME , you impudent thing hand out them letters . 
What letters ? THEM letters . 
I be bound , if I have to take a holt of you I'll They're in the trunk . 
And they're just the same as they was when I got them out of the office . 
I hain't looked into them , I hain't touched them . 
But I knowed they'd make trouble , and I thought if you warn't in no hurry , I'd Well , you DO need skinning , there ain't no mistake about it . 
I wanted to offer to bet two dollars she hadn't , but I reckoned maybe it was just as safe to not to . 
So I never said nothing . 
But I reckoned it was about as well the way it was . 
No , he hain't , Tom says it's all there yet six thousand dollars and more and your pap hain't ever been back since . 
Hadn't when I come away , anyhow . 
Jim says , kind of solemn He ain't a comin' back no mo' , Huck . 
I says Why , Jim ? Nemmine why , Huck but he ain't comin' back no mo . 
But I reckon I got to light out for the Territory ahead of the rest , because Aunt Sally she's going to adopt me and sivilize me , and I can't stand it . 
