A request to all readers I have tried to catch as many actual errors as I could , but I am sure others exist . 
If you notice an error , please let me know , identifying by chapter and paragraph where the mistake occurs . 
David Reed , haradda aol . 
com Democracy In America Alexis De Tocqueville Translator Henry Reeve Book One Introduction Special Introduction By Hon . 
Their studies were conducted in view of the imperfections that experience had developed in the government of the Confederation , and they were , therefore , practical and thorough . 
When the Constitution was thus perfected and established , a new form of government was created , but it was neither speculative nor experimental as to the principles on which it was based . 
They were not new to the people . 
They were consecrated theories , but no government had been previously established for the great purpose of their preservation and enforcement . 
He had just witnessed the spread of republican government through all the vast continental possessions of Spain in America , and the loss of her great colonies . 
De Tocqueville was scarcely thirty years old when he began his studies of Democracy in America . 
This was the mission of De Tocqueville , and no mission was ever more honorably or justly conducted , or concluded with greater eclat , or better results for the welfare of mankind . 
His researches were logical and exhaustive . 
They included every phase of every question that then seemed to be apposite to the great inquiry he was making . 
The judgment of all who have studied his commentaries seems to have been unanimous , that his talents and learning were fully equal to his task . 
The pride and comfort that the American people enjoy in the great commentaries of De Tocqueville are far removed from the selfish adulation that comes from a great and singular success . 
When De Tocqueville wrote , we had lived less than fifty years under our Constitution . 
Had De Tocqueville lived to examine the history of the United States from to , his misgivings as to this power of self preservation would , probably , have been cleared off . 
This would have dispelled his apprehensions , if he had any , about the power of the United States to withstand the severest shocks of civil war . 
when this or any subject has become a matter of anxious concern , his treatment of the questions is found to have been masterly and his preconceptions almost prophetic . 
The last three amendments of the Constitution have so changed this , that those who were then negro slaves are clothed with the rights of citizenship , including the right of suffrage . 
This was a political party movement , intended to be radical and revolutionary , but it will , ultimately , react because it has not the sanction of public opinion . 
If M. De Tocqueville could now search for a law that would negative this provision in its effect upon social equality , he would fail to find it . 
But he would find it in the unwritten law of the natural aversion of the races . 
He would find it in public opinion , which is the vital force in every law in a free government . 
This is a subject that our Constitution failed to regulate , because it was not contemplated by its authors . 
It is a question that will settle itself , without serious difficulty . 
It is the public opinion formed in the independent expressions of towns and other small civil districts that is the real conservatism of free government . 
It is equally the enemy of that dangerous evil , the corruption of the ballot box , from which it is now apprehended that one of our greatest troubles is to arise . 
The voter is selected , under our laws , because he has certain physical qualifications age and sex . 
His disqualifications , when any are imposed , relate to his education or property , and to the fact that he has not been convicted of crime . 
Of all men he should be most directly amenable to public opinion . 
Thus the voter , selected by law to represent himself and four other non voting citizens , is often a person who is unfit for any public duty or trust . 
M. De Tocqueville found in these minor local jurisdictions the theoretical conservatism which , in the aggregate , is the safest reliance of the State . 
So we have found them , in practice , the true protectors of the purity of the ballot , without which all free government will degenerate into absolutism . 
John T. Morgan Special Introduction By Hon . 
Bred to the law , he exhibited an early predilection for philosophy and political economy , and at twenty two was appointed judge auditor at the tribunal of Versailles . 
Democracy in America , the first of four volumes upon American Institutions and their Influence , was published in . 
It was received at once by the scholars and thinkers of Europe as a profound , impartial , and entertaining exposition of the principles of popular , representative self government . 
Although by birth and sympathies an aristocrat , M. de Tocqueville saw that the reign of tradition and privilege at last was ended . 
He perceived that civilization , after many bloody centuries , had entered a new epoch . 
That a youth of twenty six should entertain a design so broad and bold implies singular intellectual intrepidity . 
He had neither model nor precedent . 
The vastness and novelty of the undertaking increase admiration for the remarkable ability with which the task was performed . 
Were literary excellence the sole claim of Democracy in America to distinction , the splendor of its composition alone would entitle it to high place among the masterpieces of the century . 
It recorded impressions with the impartiality of nature . 
The image was sometimes distorted , and the perspective was not always true , but he was neither a panegyrist , nor an advocate , nor a critic . 
The causes which appeared to M. de Tocqueville to menace both , have gone . 
The violence of party spirit has been mitigated , and the judgment of the wise is not subordinated to the prejudices of the ignorant . 
Equality of conditions no longer exists . 
The last of the four volumes of M. de Tocqueville's work upon American institutions appeared in . 
In he was chosen member of the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences . 
In he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies . 
He became a member of the French Academy in . 
In he was in the Assembly , and from June nd to October st he was Minister of Foreign Affairs . 
The coup d'etat of December , drove him from the public service . 
In he published The Old Regime and the Revolution . 
He died at Cannes , April , , at the age of fifty four . 
John J. Ingalls Introductory Chapter Amongst the novel objects that attracted my attention during my stay in the United States , nothing struck me more forcibly than the general equality of conditions . 
I then turned my thoughts to our own hemisphere , where I imagined that I discerned something analogous to the spectacle which the New World presented to me . 
I hence conceived the idea of the book which is now before the reader . 
It is evident to all alike that a great democratic revolution is going on amongst us but there are two opinions as to its nature and consequences . 
The different relations of men became more complicated and more numerous as society gradually became more stable and more civilized . 
Whilst the kings were ruining themselves by their great enterprises , and the nobles exhausting their resources by private wars , the lower orders were enriching themselves by commerce . 
The influence of money began to be perceptible in State affairs . 
The transactions of business opened a new road to power , and the financier rose to a station of political influence in which he was at once flattered and despised . 
The value attached to the privileges of birth decreased in the exact proportion in which new paths were struck out to advancement . 
Or , more frequently , the king permitted the lower orders to enjoy a degree of power , with the intention of repressing the aristocracy . 
In France the kings have always been the most active and the most constant of levellers . 
Some assisted the democracy by their talents , others by their vices . 
Louis XI and Louis XIV reduced every rank beneath the throne to the same subjection Louis XV descended , himself and all his Court , into the dust . 
Henceforward every new discovery , every new want which it engendered , and every new desire which craved satisfaction , was a step towards the universal level . 
The discovery of America offered a thousand new paths to fortune , and placed riches and power within the reach of the adventurous and the obscure . 
The noble has gone down on the social ladder , and the roturier has gone up the one descends as the other rises . 
Every half century brings them nearer to each other , and they will very shortly meet . 
Nor is this phenomenon at all peculiar to France . 
Whithersoever we turn our eyes we shall witness the same continual revolution throughout the whole of Christendom . 
A new science of politics is indispensable to a new world . 
In no country in Europe has the great social revolution which I have been describing made such rapid progress as in France but it has always been borne on by chance . 
The heads of the State have never had any forethought for its exigencies , and its victories have been obtained without their consent or without their knowledge . 
The most powerful , the most intelligent , and the most moral classes of the nation have never attempted to connect themselves with it in order to guide it . 
The existence of a democracy was seemingly unknown , when on a sudden it took possession of the supreme power . 
It grew attached to them when they were clement and just , and it submitted without resistance or servility to their exactions , as to the inevitable visitations of the arm of God . 
Custom , and the manners of the time , had moreover created a species of law in the midst of violence , and established certain limits to oppression . 
Inequality and wretchedness were then to be found in society but the souls of neither rank of men were degraded . 
On one side was wealth , strength , and leisure , accompanied by the refinements of luxury , the elegance of taste , the pleasures of wit , and the religion of art . 
The body of a State thus organized might boast of its stability , its power , and , above all , of its glory . 
The people , well acquainted with its true interests , would allow that in order to profit by the advantages of society it is necessary to satisfy its demands . 
In this state of things the voluntary association of the citizens might supply the individual exertions of the nobles , and the community would be alike protected from anarchy and from oppression . 
But here it may be asked what we have adopted in the place of those institutions , those ideas , and those customs of our forefathers which we have abandoned . 
The phenomena which the intellectual world presents are not less deplorable . 
The democracy of France , checked in its course or abandoned to its lawless passions , has overthrown whatever crossed its path , and has shaken all that it has not destroyed . 
Its empire on society has not been gradually introduced or peaceably established , but it has constantly advanced in the midst of disorder and the agitation of a conflict . 
Hence arises the strange confusion which we are witnessing . 
Christianity , which has declared that all men are equal in the sight of God , will not refuse to acknowledge that all citizens are equal in the eye of the law . 
In former ages slavery has been advocated by the venal and slavish minded , whilst the independent and the warm hearted were struggling without hope to save the liberties of mankind . 
It has there been allowed to spread in perfect freedom , and to put forth its consequences in the laws by influencing the manners of the country . 
It appears to me beyond a doubt that sooner or later we shall arrive , like the Americans , at an almost complete equality of conditions . 
But I do not conclude from this that we shall ever be necessarily led to draw the same political consequences which the Americans have derived from a similar social organization . 
It is not , then , merely to satisfy a legitimate curiosity that I have examined America my wish has been to find instruction by which we may ourselves profit . 
I have sought to discover the evils and the advantages which it produces . 
Whenever a point could be established by the aid of written documents , I have had recourse to the original text , and to the most authentic and approved works . 
I have cited my authorities in the notes , and anyone may refer to them . 
Whenever an opinion , a political custom , or a remark on the manners of the country was concerned , I endeavored to consult the most enlightened men I met with . 
If the point in question was important or doubtful , I was not satisfied with one testimony , but I formed my opinion on the evidence of several witnesses . 
Here the reader must necessarily believeme upon my word . 
I am aware that , notwithstanding my care , nothing will be easier than to criticise this book , if anyone ever chooses to criticise it . 
Those readers who may examine it closely will discover the fundamental idea which connects the several parts together . 
I conclude by pointing out myself what many readers will consider the principal defect of the work . 
Exterior Form Of North America North America presents in its external form certain general features which it is easy to discriminate at the first glance . 
A sort of methodical order seems to have regulated the separation of land and water , mountains and valleys . 
A simple , but grand , arrangement is discoverable amidst the confusion of objects and the prodigious variety of scenes . 
It stretches towards the south , forming a triangle whose irregular sides meet at length below the great lakes of Canada . 
The second region begins where the other terminates , and includes all the remainder of the continent . 
The one slopes gently towards the Pole , the other towards the Equator . 
The territory comprehended in the first region descends towards the north with so imperceptible a slope that it may almost be said to form a level plain . 
Within the bounds of this immense tract of country there are neither high mountains nor deep valleys . 
The great lakes which bound this first region are not walled in , like most of those in the Old World , between hills and rocks . 
Their banks are flat , and rise but a few feet above the level of their waters each of them thus forming a vast bowl filled to the brim . 
The slightest change in the structure of the globe would cause their waters to rush either towards the Pole or to the tropical sea . 
The second region is more varied on its surface , and better suited for the habitation of man . 
Two long chains of mountains divide it from one extreme to the other the Alleghany ridge takes the form of the shores of the Atlantic Ocean the other is parallel with the Pacific . 
The space which lies between these two chains of mountains contains , , square miles . 
a Its surface is therefore about six times as great as that of France . 
At the bottom of the valley flows an immense river , into which the various streams issuing from the mountains fall from all parts . 
In memory of their native land , the French formerly called this river the St . 
The Indians , in their pompous language , have named it the Father of Waters , or the Mississippi . 
a Darby's View of the United States . 
The Mississippi takes its source above the limit of the two great regions of which I have spoken , not far from the highest point of the table land where they unite . 
Near the same spot rises another river , b which empties itself into the Polar seas . 
Sometimes quietly gliding along the argillaceous bed which nature has assigned to it , sometimes swollen by storms , the Mississippi waters , miles in its course . 
, the Illinois , the St . 
Francis , and the Moingona besides a countless multitude of rivulets which unite from all parts their tributary streams . 
c Warden's Description of the United States . 
The waters of the primeval ocean accumulated enormous beds of vegetable mould in the valley , which they levelled as they retired . 
Upon the right shore of the river are seen immense plains , as smooth as if the husbandman had passed over them with his roller . 
These stones and this sand discover , on examination , a perfect analogy with those which compose the arid and broken summits of the Rocky Mountains . 
The mean breadth of this territory does not exceed one hundred miles but it is about nine hundred miles in length . 
This part of the American continent has a soil which offers every obstacle to the husbandman , and its vegetation is scanty and unvaried . 
Upon this inhospitable coast the first united efforts of human industry were made . 
The tongue of arid land was the cradle of those English colonies which were destined one day to become the United States of America . 
The centre of power still remains here whilst in the backwoods the true elements of the great people to whom the future control of the continent belongs are gathering almost in secrecy together . 
The sea sparkled with phosphoric light , and the extraordinary transparency of its waters discovered to the view of the navigator all that had hitherto been hidden in the deep abyss . 
e Here and there appeared little islands perfumed with odoriferous plants , and resembling baskets of flowers floating on the tranquil surface of the ocean . 
Every object which met the sight , in this enchanting region , seemed prepared to satisfy the wants or contribute to the pleasures of man . 
Almost all the trees were loaded with nourishing fruits , and those which were useless as food delighted the eye by the brilliancy and variety of their colors . 
f Underneath this brilliant exterior death was concealed . 
But the air of these climates had so enervating an influence that man , absorbed by present enjoyment , was rendered regardless of the future . 
that the water of the Caribbean Sea is so transparent that corals and fish are discernible at a depth of sixty fathoms . 
A turbulent and foggy ocean washed its shores . 
It was girt round by a belt of granite rocks , or by wide tracts of sand . 
The foliage of its woods was dark and gloomy , for they were composed of firs , larches , evergreen oaks , wild olive trees , and laurels . 
Beyond this outer belt lay the thick shades of the central forest , where the largest trees which are produced in the two hemispheres grow side by side . 
The plane , the catalpa , the sugar maple , and the Virginian poplar mingled their branches with those of the oak , the beech , and the lime . 
In these , as in the forests of the Old World , destruction was perpetually going on . 
Thus decay gave its assistance to life , and their respective productions were mingled together . 
The depths of these forests were gloomy and obscure , undirected in their course by human industry , preserved in them a constant moisture . 
It was rare to meet with flowers , wild fruits , or birds beneath their shades . 
To the east of the great river , the woods almost disappeared in their stead were seen prairies of immense extent . 
These immense deserts were not , however , devoid of human inhabitants . 
Some wandering tribes had been for ages scattered among the forest shades or the green pastures of the prairie . 
From the mouth of the St . 
Their skin was reddish brown , their hair long and shining , their lips thin , and their cheekbones very prominent . 
The languages spoken by the North American tribes are various as far as regarded their words , but they were subject to the same grammatical rules . 
These rules differed in several points from such as had been observed to govern the origin of language . 
The idiom of the Americans seemed to be the product of new combinations , and bespoke an effort of the understanding of which the Indians of our days would be incapable . 
But this is a point which has not yet been clearly elucidated by science . 
See Malte Brun , vol . 
the works of Humboldt Fischer , Conjecture sur l'Origine des Americains Adair , History of the American Indians . 
h See Appendix , C. The social state of these tribes differed also in many respects from all that was seen in the Old World . 
They seemed to have multiplied freely in the midst of their deserts without coming in contact with other races more civilized than their own . 
The Indian was indebted to no one but himself his virtues , his vices , and his prejudices were his own work he had grown up in the wild independence of his nature . 
This state of mind displays itself in their manners and language they are at once insolent and servile . 
The truth of this is easily proved by observation the people are more rude in aristocratic countries than elsewhere , in opulent cities than in rural districts . 
In those places where the rich and powerful are assembled together the weak and the indigent feel themselves oppressed by their inferior condition . 
Unable to perceive a single chance of regaining their equality , they give up to despair , and allow themselves to fall below the dignity of human nature . 
This unfortunate effect of the disparity of conditions is not observable in savage life the Indians , although they are ignorant and poor , are equal and free . 
Nevertheless there was nothing coarse in their demeanor they practised an habitual reserve and a kind of aristocratic politeness . 
i The Europeans produced no great impression when they landed upon the shores of North America their presence engendered neither envy nor fear . 
What influence could they possess over such men as we have described ? The Indian could live without wants , suffer without complaint , and pour out his death song at the stake . 
Their notions on the great intellectual truths were in general simple and philosophical . 
k i We learn from President Jefferson's Notes upon Virginia , p . 
j See Histoire de la Louisiane , by Lepage Dupratz Charlevoix , Histoire de la Nouvelle France Lettres du Rev . 
G. Hecwelder Transactions of the American Philosophical Society , v . 
I Jefferson's Notes on Virginia , pp . 
An obscure tradition which prevailed among the Indians to the north of the Atlantic informs us that these very tribes formerly dwelt on the west side of the Mississippi . 
Along the banks of the Ohio , and throughout the central valley , there are frequently found , at this day , tumuli raised by the hands of men . 
The Indians of our time are unable to give any information relative to the history of this unknown people . 
Neither did those who lived three hundred years ago , when America was first discovered , leave any accounts from which even an hypothesis could be formed . 
Tradition that perishable , yet ever renewed monument of the pristine world throws no light upon the subject . 
It is an undoubted fact , however , that in this part of the globe thousands of our fellow beings had lived . 
When they came hither , what was their origin , their destiny , their history , and how they perished , no one can tell . 
The Indians occupied without possessing it . 
It is by agricultural labor that man appropriates the soil , and the early inhabitants of North America lived by the produce of the chase . 
Their implacable prejudices , their uncontrolled passions , their vices , and still more perhaps their savage virtues , consigned them to inevitable destruction . 
The ruin of these nations began from the day when Europeans landed on their shores it has proceeded ever since , and we are now witnessing the completion of it . 
They seem to have been placed by Providence amidst the riches of the New World to enjoy them for a season , and then surrender them . 
Exterior Form Of North America North America presents in its external form certain general features which it is easy to discriminate at the first glance . 
A sort of methodical order seems to have regulated the separation of land and water , mountains and valleys . 
A simple , but grand , arrangement is discoverable amidst the confusion of objects and the prodigious variety of scenes . 
It stretches towards the south , forming a triangle whose irregular sides meet at length below the great lakes of Canada . 
The second region begins where the other terminates , and includes all the remainder of the continent . 
The one slopes gently towards the Pole , the other towards the Equator . 
The territory comprehended in the first region descends towards the north with so imperceptible a slope that it may almost be said to form a level plain . 
Within the bounds of this immense tract of country there are neither high mountains nor deep valleys . 
The great lakes which bound this first region are not walled in , like most of those in the Old World , between hills and rocks . 
Their banks are flat , and rise but a few feet above the level of their waters each of them thus forming a vast bowl filled to the brim . 
The slightest change in the structure of the globe would cause their waters to rush either towards the Pole or to the tropical sea . 
The second region is more varied on its surface , and better suited for the habitation of man . 
Two long chains of mountains divide it from one extreme to the other the Alleghany ridge takes the form of the shores of the Atlantic Ocean the other is parallel with the Pacific . 
The space which lies between these two chains of mountains contains , , square miles . 
a Its surface is therefore about six times as great as that of France . 
At the bottom of the valley flows an immense river , into which the various streams issuing from the mountains fall from all parts . 
In memory of their native land , the French formerly called this river the St . 
The Indians , in their pompous language , have named it the Father of Waters , or the Mississippi . 
a Darby's View of the United States . 
The Mississippi takes its source above the limit of the two great regions of which I have spoken , not far from the highest point of the table land where they unite . 
Near the same spot rises another river , b which empties itself into the Polar seas . 
Sometimes quietly gliding along the argillaceous bed which nature has assigned to it , sometimes swollen by storms , the Mississippi waters , miles in its course . 
, the Illinois , the St . 
Francis , and the Moingona besides a countless multitude of rivulets which unite from all parts their tributary streams . 
c Warden's Description of the United States . 
The waters of the primeval ocean accumulated enormous beds of vegetable mould in the valley , which they levelled as they retired . 
Upon the right shore of the river are seen immense plains , as smooth as if the husbandman had passed over them with his roller . 
These stones and this sand discover , on examination , a perfect analogy with those which compose the arid and broken summits of the Rocky Mountains . 
The mean breadth of this territory does not exceed one hundred miles but it is about nine hundred miles in length . 
This part of the American continent has a soil which offers every obstacle to the husbandman , and its vegetation is scanty and unvaried . 
Upon this inhospitable coast the first united efforts of human industry were made . 
The tongue of arid land was the cradle of those English colonies which were destined one day to become the United States of America . 
The centre of power still remains here whilst in the backwoods the true elements of the great people to whom the future control of the continent belongs are gathering almost in secrecy together . 
The sea sparkled with phosphoric light , and the extraordinary transparency of its waters discovered to the view of the navigator all that had hitherto been hidden in the deep abyss . 
e Here and there appeared little islands perfumed with odoriferous plants , and resembling baskets of flowers floating on the tranquil surface of the ocean . 
Every object which met the sight , in this enchanting region , seemed prepared to satisfy the wants or contribute to the pleasures of man . 
Almost all the trees were loaded with nourishing fruits , and those which were useless as food delighted the eye by the brilliancy and variety of their colors . 
f Underneath this brilliant exterior death was concealed . 
But the air of these climates had so enervating an influence that man , absorbed by present enjoyment , was rendered regardless of the future . 
that the water of the Caribbean Sea is so transparent that corals and fish are discernible at a depth of sixty fathoms . 
A turbulent and foggy ocean washed its shores . 
It was girt round by a belt of granite rocks , or by wide tracts of sand . 
The foliage of its woods was dark and gloomy , for they were composed of firs , larches , evergreen oaks , wild olive trees , and laurels . 
Beyond this outer belt lay the thick shades of the central forest , where the largest trees which are produced in the two hemispheres grow side by side . 
The plane , the catalpa , the sugar maple , and the Virginian poplar mingled their branches with those of the oak , the beech , and the lime . 
In these , as in the forests of the Old World , destruction was perpetually going on . 
Thus decay gave its assistance to life , and their respective productions were mingled together . 
The depths of these forests were gloomy and obscure , and a thousand rivulets , undirected in their course by human industry , preserved in them a constant moisture . 
It was rare to meet with flowers , wild fruits , or birds beneath their shades . 
To the east of the great river , the woods almost disappeared in their stead were seen prairies of immense extent . 
These immense deserts were not , however , devoid of human inhabitants . 
Some wandering tribes had been for ages scattered among the forest shades or the green pastures of the prairie . 
From the mouth of the St . 
Their skin was reddish brown , their hair long and shining , their lips thin , and their cheekbones very prominent . 
The languages spoken by the North American tribes are various as far as regarded their words , but they were subject to the same grammatical rules . 
These rules differed in several points from such as had been observed to govern the origin of language . 
The idiom of the Americans seemed to be the product of new combinations , and bespoke an effort of the understanding of which the Indians of our days would be incapable . 
But this is a point which has not yet been clearly elucidated by science . 
See Malte Brun , vol . 
the works of Humboldt Fischer , Conjecture sur l'Origine des Americains Adair , History of the American Indians . 
h See Appendix , C. The social state of these tribes differed also in many respects from all that was seen in the Old World . 
They seemed to have multiplied freely in the midst of their deserts without coming in contact with other races more civilized than their own . 
The Indian was indebted to no one but himself his virtues , his vices , and his prejudices were his own work he had grown up in the wild independence of his nature . 
This state of mind displays itself in their manners and language they are at once insolent and servile . 
The truth of this is easily proved by observation the people are more rude in aristocratic countries than elsewhere , in opulent cities than in rural districts . 
In those places where the rich and powerful are assembled together the weak and the indigent feel themselves oppressed by their inferior condition . 
Unable to perceive a single chance of regaining their equality , they give up to despair , and allow themselves to fall below the dignity of human nature . 
This unfortunate effect of the disparity of conditions is not observable in savage life the Indians , although they are ignorant and poor , are equal and free . 
Nevertheless there was nothing coarse in their demeanor they practised an habitual reserve and a kind of aristocratic politeness . 
i The Europeans produced no great impression when they landed upon the shores of North America their presence engendered neither envy nor fear . 
What influence could they possess over such men as we have described ? The Indian could live without wants , suffer without complaint , and pour out his death song at the stake . 
Their notions on the great intellectual truths were in general simple and philosophical . 
k i We learn from President Jefferson's Notes upon Virginia , p . 
j See Histoire de la Louisiane , by Lepage Dupratz Charlevoix , Histoire de la Nouvelle France Lettres du Rev . 
G. Hecwelder Transactions of the American Philosophical Society , v . 
I Jefferson's Notes on Virginia , pp . 
An obscure tradition which prevailed among the Indians to the north of the Atlantic informs us that these very tribes formerly dwelt on the west side of the Mississippi . 
Along the banks of the Ohio , and throughout the central valley , there are frequently found , at this day , tumuli raised by the hands of men . 
The Indians of our time are unable to give any information relative to the history of this unknown people . 
Neither did those who lived three hundred years ago , when America was first discovered , leave any accounts from which even an hypothesis could be formed . 
Tradition that perishable , yet ever renewed monument of the pristine world throws no light upon the subject . 
It is an undoubted fact , however , that in this part of the globe thousands of our fellow beings had lived . 
When they came hither , what was their origin , their destiny , their history , and how they perished , no one can tell . 
The Indians occupied without possessing it . 
It is by agricultural labor that man appropriates the soil , and the early inhabitants of North America lived by the produce of the chase . 
Their implacable prejudices , their uncontrolled passions , their vices , and still more perhaps their savage virtues , consigned them to inevitable destruction . 
The ruin of these nations began from the day when Europeans landed on their shores it has proceeded ever since , and we are now witnessing the completion of it . 
They seem to have been placed by Providence amidst the riches of the New World to enjoy them for a season , and then surrender them . 
As he grows up the world receives him , when his manhood begins , and he enters into contact with his fellows . 
He is then studied for the first time , and it is imagined that the germ of the vices and the virtues of his maturer years is then formed . 
This , if I am not mistaken , is a great error . 
The entire man is , so to speak , to be seen in the cradle of the child . 
This might explain the destinies of certain nations , which seem borne on by an unknown force to ends of which they themselves are ignorant . 
The men of the sixteenth century are almost as well known to us as our contemporaries . 
America , consequently , exhibits in the broad light of day the phenomena which the ignorance or rudeness of earlier ages conceals from our researches . 
The readers of this book will find the germ of all that is to follow in the present chapter , and the key to almost the whole work . 
These men had , however , certain features in common , and they were all placed in an analogous situation . 
The tie of language is perhaps the strongest and the most durable that can unite mankind . 
All the emigrants spoke the same tongue they were all offsets from the same people . 
The religious quarrels which have agitated the Christian world were then rife . 
England had plunged into the new order of things with headlong vehemence . 
The character of its inhabitants , which had always been sedate and reflective , became argumentative and austere . 
General information had been increased by intellectual debate , and the mind had received a deeper cultivation . 
Whilst religion was the topic of discussion , the morals of the people were reformed . 
All these national features are more or less discoverable in the physiognomy of those adventurers who came to seek a new home on the opposite shores of the Atlantic . 
All these European colonies contained the elements , if not the development , of a complete democracy . 
Two causes led to this result . 
It may safely be advanced , that on leaving the mother country the emigrants had in general no notion of superiority over one another . 
The happy and the powerful do not go into exile , and there are no surer guarantees of equality among men than poverty and misfortune . 
It happened , however , on several occasions , that persons of rank were driven to America by political and religious quarrels . 
Laws were made to establish a gradation of ranks but it was soon found that the soil of America was opposed to a territorial aristocracy . 
The land was then naturally broken up into small portions , which the proprietor cultivated for himself . 
A nation may present immense fortunes and extreme wretchedness , but unless those fortunes are territorial there is no aristocracy , but simply the class of the rich and that of the poor . 
All the British colonies had then a great degree of similarity at the epoch of their settlement . 
In this general uniformity several striking differences were however discernible , which it is necessary to point out . 
Two branches may be distinguished in the Anglo American family , which have hitherto grown up without entirely commingling the one in the South , the other in the North . 
Virginia received the first English colony the emigrants took possession of it in . 
The artisans and agriculturists arrived afterwards and , although they were a more moral and orderly race of men , they were in nowise above the level of the inferior classes in England . 
c No lofty conceptions , no intellectual system , directed the foundation of these new settlements . 
Slavery , as we shall afterwards show , dishonors labor it introduces idleness into society , and with idleness , ignorance and pride , luxury and distress . 
It enervates the powers of the mind , and benumbs the activity of man . 
The influence of slavery , united to the English character , explains the manners and the social condition of the Southern States . 
See Marshall's Life of Washington , vol . 
See for the history of Virginia the following works History of Virginia , from the First Settlements in the year , by Smith . 
History of Virginia , by William Stith . 
History of Virginia , from the Earliest Period , by Beverley . 
c It was not till some time later that a certain number of rich English capitalists came to fix themselves in the colony . 
d Slavery was introduced about the year by a Dutch vessel which landed twenty negroes on the banks of the river James . 
In the North , the same English foundation was modified by the most opposite shades of character and here I may be allowed to enter into some details . 
e The principles of New England spread at first to the neighboring states they then passed successively to the more distant ones and at length they imbued the whole Confederation . 
They now extend their influence beyond its limits over the whole American world . 
The civilization of New England has been like a beacon lit upon a hill , which , after it has diffused its warmth around , tinges the distant horizon with its glow . 
The foundation of New England was a novel spectacle , and all the circumstances attending it were singular and original . 
Some settlements cannot even boast so honorable an origin St . 
Domingo was founded by buccaneers and the criminal courts of England originally supplied the population of Australia . 
The settlers who established themselves on the shores of New England all belonged to the more independent classes of their native country . 
Their union on the soil of America at once presented the singular phenomenon of a society containing neither lords nor common people , neither rich nor poor . 
These men possessed , in proportion to their number , a greater mass of intelligence than is to be found in any European nation of our own time . 
All , without a single exception , had received a good education , and many of them were known in Europe for their talents and their acquirements . 
But what most especially distinguished them was the aim of their undertaking . 
They had not been obliged by necessity to leave their country the social position they abandoned was one to be regretted , and their means of subsistence were certain . 
The emigrants , or , as they deservedly styled themselves , the Pilgrims , belonged to that English sect the austerity of whose principles had acquired for them the name of Puritans . 
Puritanism was not merely a religious doctrine , but it corresponded in many points with the most absolute democratic and republican theories . 
It was this tendency which had aroused its most dangerous adversaries . 
A few quotations will throw more light upon the spirit of these pious adventures than all we can say of them . 
Nathaniel Morton , f the historian of the first years of the settlement , thus opens his subject f New England's Memorial , p . 
See also Hutchinson's History , vol . 
It is impossible to read this opening paragraph without an involuntary feeling of religious awe it breathes the very savor of Gospel antiquity . 
The sincerity of the author heightens his power of language . 
One night was spent with little sleep with the most , but with friendly entertainment and Christian discourse , and other real expressions of true Christian love . 
The emigrants were about in number , including the women and the children . 
The rock is still shown on which the pilgrims disembarked . 
h h This rock is become an object of veneration in the United States . 
I have seen bits of it carefully preserved in several towns of the Union . 
It must not be imagined that the piety of the Puritans was of a merely speculative kind , or that it took no cognizance of the course of worldly affairs . 
Puritanism , as I have already remarked , was scarcely less a political than a religious doctrine . 
We , whose names are underwritten , the loyal subjects of our dread Sovereign Lord King James , etc . 
See Pitkin's History , pp . 
This happened in , and from that time forwards the emigration went on . 
The religious and political passions which ravaged the British Empire during the whole reign of Charles I drove fresh crowds of sectarians every year to the shores of America . 
In England the stronghold of Puritanism was in the middle classes , and it was from the middle classes that the majority of the emigrants came . 
A democracy , more perfect than any which antiquity had dreamt of , started in full size and panoply from the midst of an ancient feudal society . 
Chapter II Origin Of The Anglo Americans Part II The English Government was not dissatisfied with an emigration which removed the elements of fresh discord and of further revolutions . 
It seemed as if New England was a region given up to the dreams of fancy and the unrestrained experiments of innovators . 
have always enjoyed more internal freedom and more political independence than the colonies of other nations but this principle of liberty was nowhere more extensively applied than in the States of New England . 
It was generally allowed at that period that the territories of the New World belonged to that European nation which had been the first to discover them . 
Nearly the whole coast of North America thus became a British possession towards the end of the sixteenth century . 
This mode of colonization , so remarkably favorable to liberty , was only adopted in New England . 
l j This was the case in the State of New York . 
k Maryland , the Carolinas , Pennsylvania , and New Jersey were in this situation . 
See Pitkin's History , vol . 
l See the work entitled Historical Collection of State Papers and other authentic Documents intended as materials for a History of the United States of America , by Ebenezer Hasard . 
It results from these documents that the principles of representative government and the external forms of political liberty were introduced into all the colonies at their origin . 
These principles were more fully acted upon in the North than in the South , but they existed everywhere . 
In m a charter of this kind was granted by Charles I to the emigrants who went to form the colony of Massachusetts . 
But , in general , charters were not given to the colonies of New England till they had acquired a certain existence . 
Plymouth , Providence , New Haven , the State of Connecticut , and that of Rhode Island n were founded without the co operation and almost without the knowledge of the mother country . 
that their existence was legally recognized by a royal charter . 
m See Pitkin's History , p , . 
See the History of the Colony of Massachusetts Bay , by Hutchinson , vol . 
n See Pitkin's History , pp . 
This frequently renders its it difficult to detect the link which connected the emigrants with the land of their forefathers in studying the earliest historical and legislative records of New England . 
They exercised the rights of sovereignty they named their magistrates , concluded peace or declared war , made police regulations , and enacted laws as if their allegiance was due only to God . 
Amongst these documents we shall notice , as especially characteristic , the code of laws promulgated by the little State of Connecticut in . 
p The legislators of Connecticut q begin with the penal laws , and , strange to say , they borrow their provisions from the text of Holy Writ . 
Whosoever shall worship any other God than the Lord , says the preamble of the Code , shall surely be put to death . 
This is followed by ten or twelve enactments of the same kind , copied verbatim from the books of Exodus , Leviticus , and Deuteronomy . 
Blasphemy , sorcery , adultery , r and rape were punished with death an outrage offered by a son to his parents was to be expiated by the same penalty . 
The legislation of a rude and half civilized people was thus applied to an enlightened and moral community . 
The consequence was that the punishment of death was never more frequently prescribed by the statute , and never more rarely enforced towards the guilty . 
p Code of , p . 
q See also in Hutchinson's History , vol . 
, , the analysis of the penal code adopted in by the Colony of Massachusetts this code is drawn up on the same principles as that of Connecticut . 
r Adultery was also punished with death by the law of Massachusetts and Hutchinson , vol . 
, says that several persons actually suffered for this crime . 
He quotes a curious anecdote on this subject , which occurred in the year . 
A married woman had had criminal intercourse with a young man her husband died , and she married the lover . 
Several years had elapsed , when the public began to suspect the previous intercourse of this couple they were thrown into prison , put upon trial , and very narrowly escaped capital punishment . 
The reader is aware of the rigor with which these laws punished rape and adultery intercourse between unmarried persons was likewise severely repressed . 
t The Code of abounds in preventive measures . 
It punishes idleness and drunkenness with severity . 
In a solemn association was formed in Boston to check the worldly luxury of long hair . 
z s Code of , p . 
, by which Margaret Bedford , convicted of loose conduct , was condemned to be whipped , and afterwards to marry Nicholas Jemmings , her accomplice . 
t New Haven Antiquities , p . 
See also Hutchinson's History , for several causes equally extraordinary . 
u Code of , pp . 
This was not peculiar to Connecticut . 
See , for instance , the law which , on September , , banished the Anabaptists from the State of Massachusetts . 
See also the law against the Quakers , passed on October , Whereas , says the preamble , an accursed race of heretics called Quakers has sprung up , etc . 
The clauses of the statute inflict a heavy fine on all captains of ships who should import Quakers into the country . 
The Quakers who may be found there shall be whipped and imprisoned with hard labor . 
Those members of the sect who should defend their opinions shall be first fined , then imprisoned , and finally driven out of the province . 
Historical Collection of State Papers , vol . 
x By the penal law of Massachusetts , any Catholic priest who should set foot in the colony after having been once driven out of it was liable to capital punishment . 
y Code of , p . 
z New England's Memorial , p . 
From these fruitful principles consequences have been derived and applications have been made such as no nation in Europe has yet ventured to attempt . 
b In Connecticut , at this period , all the executive functionaries were elected , including the Governor of the State . 
d a Constitution of , p . 
c Pitkin's History , p . 
d Constitution of , p . 
The political existence of the majority of the nations of Europe commenced in the superior ranks of society , and was gradually and imperfectly communicated to the different members of the social body . 
In America , on the other hand , it may be said that the township was organized before the county , the county before the State , the State before the Union . 
In New England townships were completely and definitively constituted as early as . 
The independence of the township was the nucleus round which the local interests , passions , rights , and duties collected and clung . 
It gave scope to the activity of a real political life most thoroughly democratic and republican . 
The colonies still recognized the supremacy of the mother country monarchy was still the law of the State but the republic was already established in every township . 
The towns named their own magistrates of every kind , rated themselves , and levied their own taxes . 
e Code of , p . 
j The law enters into a thousand useful provisions for a number of social wants which are at present very inadequately felt in France . 
h See Hutchinson's History , vol . 
i Code of , p . 
But it is by the attention it pays to Public Education that the original character of American civilization is at once placed in the clearest light . 
k Here follow clauses establishing schools in every township , and obliging the inhabitants , under pain of heavy fines , to support them . 
Schools of a superior kind were founded in the same manner in the more populous districts . 
The reader will undoubtedly have remarked the preamble of these enactments in America religion is the road to knowledge , and the observance of the divine laws leads man to civil freedom . 
On the Continent of Europe , at the beginning of the seventeenth century , absolute monarchy had everywhere triumphed over the ruins of the oligarchical and feudal liberties of the Middle Ages . 
l l Mather's Magnalia Christi Americana , vol . 
Nor would I have you to mistake in the point of your own liberty . 
The remarks I have made will suffice to display the character of Anglo American civilization in its true light . 
, these children , sharing amongst them the fortune of both parents , would not be poorer than their father or mother . 
But the law of equal division exercises its influence not merely upon the property itself , but it affects the minds of the heirs , and brings their passions into play . 
These indirect consequences tend powerfully to the destruction of large fortunes , and especially of large domains . 
What is called family pride is often founded upon an illusion of self love . 
A man wishes to perpetuate and immortalize himself , as it were , in his great grandchildren . 
Where the esprit de famille ceases to act individual selfishness comes into play . 
When the idea of family becomes vague , indeterminate , and uncertain , a man thinks of his present convenience he provides for the establishment of his succeeding generation , and no more . 
Either a man gives up the idea of perpetuating his family , or at any rate he seeks to accomplish it by other means than that of a landed estate . 
The law of equal distribution proceeds by two methods by acting upon things , it acts upon persons by influencing persons , it affects things . 
By these means the law succeeds in striking at the root of landed property , and dispersing rapidly both families and fortunes . 
But these are accidental cases . 
The preference for landed property is no longer found habitually in any class but among the poor . 
Thus , to balance the tendency which leads men to divide their estates , there exists another , which incites them to add to them . 
It is perpetually conspicuous in our country , overthrowing the walls of our dwellings and removing the landmarks of our fields . 
But although it has produced great effects in France , much still remains for it to do . 
Our recollections , opinions , and habits present powerful obstacles to its progress . 
In the United States it has nearly completed its work of destruction , and there we can best study its results . 
The English laws concerning the transmission of property were abolished in almost all the States at the time of the Revolution . 
The law of entail was so modified as not to interrupt the free circulation of property . 
d The first generation having passed away , estates began to be parcelled out , and the change became more and more rapid with the progress of time . 
In the State of New York , which formerly contained many of these , there are but two who still keep their heads above the stream , and they must shortly disappear . 
The sons of these opulent citizens are become merchants , lawyers , or physicians . 
Most of them have lapsed into obscurity . 
The last trace of hereditary ranks and distinctions is destroyed the law of partition has reduced all to one level . 
But wealth circulates with inconceivable rapidity , and experience shows that it is rare to find two succeeding generations in the full enjoyment of it . 
This picture , which may perhaps be thought to be overcharged , still gives a very imperfect idea of what is taking place in the new States of the West and South west . 
In these States , founded off hand , and , as it were , by chance , the inhabitants are but of yesterday . 
Scarcely known to one another , the nearest neighbors are ignorant of each other's history . 
None are there to wield that respectable power which men willingly grant to the remembrance of a life spent in doing good before their eyes . 
The new States of the West are already inhabited , but society has no existence among them . 
e e This may have been true in , but is not so in , when great cities like Chicago and San Francisco have sprung up in the Western States . 
But as yet the Western States exert no powerful influence on American society . 
It is not only the fortunes of men which are equal in America even their requirements partake in some degree of the same uniformity . 
Primary instruction is within the reach of everybody superior instruction is scarcely to be obtained by any . 
This is not surprising it is in fact the necessary consequence of what we have advanced above . 
Almost all the Americans are in easy circumstances , and can therefore obtain the first elements of human knowledge . 
In America there are comparatively few who are rich enough to live without a profession . 
Every profession requires an apprenticeship , which limits the time of instruction to the early years of life . 
At fifteen they enter upon their calling , and thus their education ends at the age when ours begins . 
Accordingly there is an equal want of the desire and the power of application to these objects . 
A middle standard is fixed in America for human knowledge . 
All approach as near to it as they can some as they rise , others as they descend . 
Of course , an immense multitude of persons are to be found who entertain the same number of ideas on religion , history , science , political economy , legislation , and government . 
The gifts of intellect proceed directly from God , and man cannot prevent their unequal distribution . 
The democratic principle , on the contrary , has gained so much strength by time , by events , and by legislation , as to have become not only predominant but all powerful . 
There is no family or corporate authority , and it is rare to find even the influence of individual character enjoy any durability . 
America , then , exhibits in her social state a most extraordinary phenomenon . 
Political Consequences Of The Social Condition Of The Anglo Americans The political consequences of such a social condition as this are easily deducible . 
It is impossible to believe that equality will not eventually find its way into the political world as it does everywhere else . 
To conceive of men remaining forever unequal upon one single point , yet equal on all others , is impossible they must come in the end to be equal upon all . 
Now I know of only two methods of establishing equality in the political world every citizen must be put in possession of his rights , or rights must be granted to no one . 
There is , in fact , a manly and lawful passion for equality which excites men to wish all to be powerful and honored . 
Not that those nations whose social condition is democratic naturally despise liberty on the contrary , they have an instinctive love of it . 
On the other hand , in a State where the citizens are nearly on an equality , it becomes difficult for them to preserve their independence against the aggressions of power . 
No one among them being strong enough to engage in the struggle with advantage , nothing but a general combination can protect their liberty . 
And such a union is not always to be found . 
The Anglo Americans are the first nations who , having been exposed to this formidable alternative , have been happy enough to escape the dominion of absolute power . 
They have been allowed by their circumstances , their origin , their intelligence , and especially by their moral feeling , to establish and maintain the sovereignty of the people . 
The principle of the sovereignty of the people , which is to be found , more or less , at the bottom of almost all human institutions , generally remains concealed from view . 
It is obeyed without being recognized , or if for a moment it be brought to light , it is hastily cast back into the gloom of the sanctuary . 
The will of the nation is one of those expressions which have been most profusely abused by the wily and the despotic of every age . 
I have already observed that , from their origin , the sovereignty of the people was the fundamental principle of the greater number of British colonies in America . 
It was far , however , from then exercising as much influence on the government of society as it now does . 
Two obstacles , the one external , the other internal , checked its invasive progress . 
American society was not yet prepared to adopt it with all its consequences . 
, long exercised a sort of aristocratic influence , which tended to retain the exercise of social authority in the hands of a few . 
The public functionaries were not universally elected , and the citizens were not all of them electors . 
The electoral franchise was everywhere placed within certain limits , and made dependent on a certain qualification , which was exceedingly low in the North and more considerable in the South . 
A no less rapid change was effected in the interior of society , where the law of descent completed the abolition of local influences . 
At the very time when this consequence of the laws and of the revolution was apparent to every eye , victory was irrevocably pronounced in favor of the democratic cause . 
All power was , in fact , in its hands , and resistance was no longer possible . 
The higher orders submitted without a murmur and without a struggle to an evil which was thenceforth inevitable . 
When a nation modifies the elective qualification , it may easily be foreseen that sooner or later that qualification will be entirely abolished . 
The ambition of those who are below the appointed rate is irritated in exact proportion to the great number of those who are above it . 
The exception at last becomes the rule , concession follows concession , and no stop can be made short of universal suffrage . 
At the present day the principle of the sovereignty of the people has acquired , in the United States , all the practical development which the imagination can conceive . 
It is unencumbered by those fictions which have been thrown over it in other countries , and it appears in every possible form according to the exigency of the occasion . 
In some countries a power exists which , though it is in a degree foreign to the social body , directs it , and forces it to pursue a certain track . 
In others the ruling force is divided , being partly within and partly without the ranks of the people . 
But nothing of the kind is to be seen in the United States there society governs itself for itself . 
In short , there are twenty four small sovereign nations , whose agglomeration constitutes the body of the Union . 
To examine the Union before we have studied the States would be to adopt a method filled with obstacles . 
Moreover , the Federal Government is , as I have just observed , the exception the Government of the States is the rule . 
The author who should attempt to exhibit the picture as a whole before he had explained its details would necessarily fall into obscurity and repetition . 
The great political principles which govern American society at this day undoubtedly took their origin and their growth in the State . 
It is therefore necessary to become acquainted with the State in order to possess a clue to the remainder . 
The States which at present compose the American Union all present the same features , as far as regards the external aspect of their institutions . 
Their political or administrative existence is centred in three focuses of action , which may not inaptly be compared to the different nervous centres which convey motion to the human body . 
The township is the lowest in order , then the county , and lastly the State and I propose to devote the following chapter to the examination of these three divisions . 
It is not undesignedly that I begin this subject with the Township . 
The village or township is the only association which is so perfectly natural that wherever a number of men are collected it seems to constitute itself . 
But although the existence of the township is coeval with that of man , its liberties are not the less rarely respected and easily destroyed . 
The township is , on the contrary , composed of coarser materials , which are less easily fashioned by the legislator . 
The difficulties which attend the consolidation of its independence rather augment than diminish with the increasing enlightenment of the people . 
A highly civilized community spurns the attempts of a local independence , is disgusted at its numerous blunders , and is apt to despair of success before the experiment is completed . 
Nevertheless local assemblies of citizens constitute the strength of free nations . 
Town meetings are to liberty what primary schools are to science they bring it within the people's reach , they teach men how to use and how to enjoy it . 
A nation may establish a system of free government , but without the spirit of municipal institutions it cannot have the spirit of liberty . 
I am inclined to believe that these principles have been carried further in New England than elsewhere , and consequently that they offer greater facilities to the observations of a stranger . 
a In there were townships in the State of Massachusetts , and , inhabitants , which gives an average of about , inhabitants to each township . 
In America the people is a master whose exigencies demand obedience to the utmost limits of possibility . 
There is no corporation but the body of electors , after having designated its magistrates , directs them in everything that exceeds the simple and ordinary executive business of the State . 
See the Act of February , , for appointing the authorities of the city of Boston . 
It frequently happens that small towns as well as cities are subject to a peculiar administration . 
In , townships in the State of New York were governed in this manner . 
This state of things is so contrary to our ideas , and so different from our customs , that it is necessary for me to adduce some examples to explain it thoroughly . 
They usually act upon their own responsibility , and merely put in practice principles which have been previously recognized by the majority . 
The meeting is consulted on these several points it adopts the principle , marks out the site , votes the rate , and confides the execution of its resolution to the selectmen . 
c Three selectmen are appointed in the small townships , and nine in the large ones . 
See The Town Officer , p . 
See also the principal laws of the State of Massachusetts relative to the selectmen Act of February , , vol . 
d d See Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
, Act of March , . 
The selectmen are elected every year in the month of April or of May . 
The town meeting chooses at the same time a number of other municipal magistrates , who are entrusted with important administrative functions . 
The assessors rate the township the collectors receive the rate . 
There are nineteen principal officers in a township . 
In general the American system is not to grant a fixed salary to its functionaries . 
Every service has its price , and they are remunerated in proportion to what they have done . 
I have already observed that the principle of the sovereignty of the people governs the whole political system of the Anglo Americans . 
Every page of this book will afford new instances of the same doctrine . 
In the nations by which the sovereignty of the people is recognized every individual possesses an equal share of power , and participates alike in the government of the State . 
Every individual is , therefore , supposed to be as well informed , as virtuous , and as strong as any of his fellow citizens . 
If he be a subject in all that concerns the mutual relations of citizens , he is free and responsible to God alone for all that concerns himself . 
This doctrine is universally admitted in the United States . 
I shall hereafter examine the general influence which it exercises on the ordinary actions of life I am now speaking of the nature of municipal bodies . 
In this part of the Union the impulsion of political activity was given in the townships and it may almost be said that each of them originally formed an independent nation . 
When the Kings of England asserted their supremacy , they were contented to assume the central power of the State . 
The townships of New England remained as they were before and although they are now subject to the State , they were at first scarcely dependent upon it . 
It is important to remember that they have not been invested with privileges , but that they have , on the contrary , forfeited a portion of their independence to the State . 
The townships are only subordinate to the State in those interests which I shall term social , as they are common to all the citizens . 
They are bound , however , to comply with the demands of the community . 
If the State is in need of money , a town can neither give nor withhold the supplies . 
A uniform system of instruction is organized all over the country , and every town is bound to establish the schools which the law ordains . 
Strict as this obligation is , the government of the State imposes it in principle only , and in its performance the township resumes all its independent rights . 
In France the State collector receives the local imposts in America the town collector receives the taxes of the State . 
Thus the French Government lends its agents to the commune in America the township is the agent of the Government . 
This fact alone shows the extent of the differences which exist between the two nations . 
In America , not only do municipal bodies exist , but they are kept alive and supported by public spirit . 
The township of New England possesses two advantages which infallibly secure the attentive interest of mankind , namely , independence and authority . 
It is to be remembered that the affections of men generally lie on the side of authority . 
Patriotism is not durable in a conquered nation . 
If the municipal bodies were made powerful and independent , the authorities of the nation might be disunited and the peace of the country endangered . 
Yet , without power and independence , a town may contain good subjects , but it can have no active citizens . 
Another important fact is that the township of New England is so constituted as to excite the warmest of human affections , without arousing the ambitious passions of the heart of man . 
The officers of the country are not elected , and their authority is very limited . 
The federal government confers power and honor on the men who conduct it but these individuals can never be very numerous . 
Such cannot be the permanent aim of the ambitious . 
In the American States power has been disseminated with admirable skill for the purpose of interesting the greatest possible number of persons in the common weal . 
The local administration thus affords an unfailing source of profit and interest to a vast number of individuals . 
The American system , which divides the local authority among so many citizens , does not scruple to multiply the functions of the town officers . 
For in the United States it is believed , and with truth , that patriotism is a kind of devotion which is strengthened by ritual observance . 
The American attaches himself to his home as the mountaineer clings to his hills , because the characteristic features of his country are there more distinctly marked than elsewhere . 
The existence of the townships of New England is in general a happy one . 
Their government is suited to their tastes , and chosen by themselves . 
In the midst of the profound peace and general comfort which reign in America the commotions of municipal discord are unfrequent . 
The conduct of local business is easy . 
The political education of the people has long been complete say rather that it was complete when the people first set foot upon the soil . 
, the fact that it really emanates from those it governs , and that it acts , either ill or well , casts the protecting spell of a parental pride over its faults . 
The Counties Of New England The division of the countries in America has considerable analogy with that of the arrondissements of France . 
There are certain wants which are felt alike by all the townships of a county it is therefore natural that they should be satisfied by a central authority . 
In the State of Massachusetts this authority is vested in the hands of several magistrates , who are appointed by the Governor of the State , with the advice g of his council . 
h The officers of the county have only a limited and occasional authority , which is applicable to certain predetermined cases . 
The State and the townships possess all the power requisite to conduct public business . 
The budget of the county is drawn up by its officers , and is voted by the legislature , but there is no assembly which directly or indirectly represents the county . 
It has , therefore , properly speaking , no political existence . 
f See the Act of February , , Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
g See the Act of February , , Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
h The council of the Governor is an elective body . 
A twofold tendency may be discerned in the American constitutions , which impels the legislator to centralize the legislative and to disperse the executive power . 
The township of New England has in itself an indestructible element of independence and this distinct existence could only be fictitiously introduced into the county , where its utility has not been felt . 
Nothing is more striking to an European traveller in the United States than the absence of what we term the Government , or the Administration . 
This authority may be distributed in several ways , but it must always exist somewhere . 
To weaken authority in this manner is what is generally termed in Europe to lay the foundations of freedom . 
There may be nations whom this distribution of social powers might lead to anarchy but in itself it is not anarchical . 
The action of authority is indeed thus rendered less irresistible and less perilous , but it is not totally suppressed . 
The revolution of the United States was the result of a mature and dignified taste for freedom , and not of a vague or ill defined craving for independence . 
It contracted no alliance with the turbulent passions of anarchy but its course was marked , on the contrary , by an attachment to whatever was lawful and orderly . 
In no country in the world does the law hold so absolute a language as in America , and in no country is the right of applying it vested in so many hands . 
The administrative power in the United States presents nothing either central or hierarchical in its constitution , which accounts for its passing , unperceived . 
The power exists , but its representative is not to be perceived . 
j Lastly , these municipal magistrates provide , of their own accord and without any delegated powers , for those unforeseen emergencies which frequently occur in society . 
k i See The Town Officer , especially at the words Selectmen , Assessors , Collectors , Schools , Surveyors of Highways . 
See the Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
The selectmen draw up the lists of electors for the election of the Governor , and transmit the result of the ballot to the Secretary of the State . 
See Act of February , Id . 
j Thus , for instance , the selectmen authorize the construction of drains , point out the proper sites for slaughter houses and other trades which are a nuisance to the neighborhood . 
See the Act of June , Id . 
k The selectmen take measures for the security of the public in case of contagious diseases , conjointly with the justices of the peace . 
See Act of June , , vol . 
In the French commune there is properly but one official functionary , namely , the Maire and in New England we have seen that there are nineteen . 
These nineteen functionaries do not in general depend upon one another . 
The law carefully prescribes a circle of action to each of these magistrates and within that circle they have an entire right to perform their functions independently of any other authority . 
Above the township scarcely any trace of a series of official dignitaries is to be found . 
See the Act of February , , vol . 
m Thus licenses are only granted to such persons as can produce a certificate of good conduct from the selectmen . 
If the selectmen refuse to give the certificate , the party may appeal to the justices assembled in the Court of Sessions , and they may grant the license . 
See Act of March , , vol . 
The townships have the right to make by laws , and to enforce them by fines which are fixed by law but these by laws must be approved by the Court of Sessions . 
See Act of March , , vol . 
The magistrates of the township , as well as those of the county , are bound to communicate their acts to the central government in a very small number of predetermined cases . 
There is no point which serves as a centre to the radii of the administration . 
o The town committees of schools are obliged to make an annual report to the Secretary of the State on the condition of the school . 
See Act of March , , vol . 
The right of directing a civil officer presupposes that of cashiering him if he does not obey orders , and of rewarding him by promotion if he fulfils his duties with propriety . 
But an elected magistrate can neither be cashiered nor promoted . 
All elective functions are inalienable until their term is expired . 
The communities therefore in which the secondary functionaries of the government are elected are perforce obliged to make great use of judicial penalties as a means of administration . 
It has always been remarked that habits of legal business do not render men apt to the exercise of administrative authority . 
The Justice of the Peace is a sort of mezzo termine between the magistrate and the man of the world , between the civil officer and the judge . 
A justice of the peace is a well informed citizen , though he is not necessarily versed in the knowledge of the laws . 
His office simply obliges him to execute the police regulations of society a task in which good sense and integrity are of more avail than legal science . 
The Americans have adopted the system of the English justices of the peace , but they have deprived it of that aristocratic character which is discernible in the mother country . 
The Governor of Massachusetts p appoints a certain number of justices of the peace in every county , whose functions last seven years . 
q He further designates three individuals from amongst the whole body of justices who form in each county what is called the Court of Sessions . 
But it is in the Court of Sessions that they exercise their most important functions . 
This court meets twice a year in the county town in Massachusetts it is empowered to enforce the obedience of the greater number s of public officers . 
t It must be observed , that in the State of Massachusetts the Court of Sessions is at the same time an administrative body , properly so called , and a political tribunal . 
It has been asserted that the county is a purely administrative division . 
But when the administration of the township is brought before it , it always acts as a judicial body , and in some few cases as an official assembly . 
p We shall hereafter learn what a Governor is I shall content myself with remarking in this place that he represents the executive power of the whole State . 
q See the Constitution of Massachusetts , chap . 
r Thus , for example , a stranger arrives in a township from a country where a contagious disease prevails , and he falls ill . 
Two justices of the peace can , with the assent of the selectmen , order the sheriff of the county to remove and take care of him . 
Act of June , , vol . 
In general the justices interfere in all the important acts of the administration , and give them a semi judicial character . 
s I say the greater number , because certain administrative misdemeanors are brought before ordinary tribunals . 
If , for instance , a township refuses to make the necessary expenditure for its schools or to name a school committee , it is liable to a heavy fine . 
But this penalty is pronounced by the Supreme Judicial Court or the Court of Common Pleas . 
See Act of March , , Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
Or when a township neglects to provide the necessary war stores . 
Act of February , Id . 
t In their individual capacity the justices of the peace take a part in the business of the counties and townships . 
u These affairs may be brought under the following heads . 
The erection of prisons and courts of justice . 
The county budget , which is afterwards voted by the State . 
The distribution of the taxes so voted . 
The laying down and repairs of the country roads . 
v Thus , when a road is under consideration , almost all difficulties are disposed of by the aid of the jury . 
The first difficulty is to procure the obedience of an authority as entirely independent of the general laws of the State as the township is . 
We have stated that assessors are annually named by the town meetings to levy the taxes . 
If a township attempts to evade the payment of the taxes by neglecting to name its assessors , the Court of Sessions condemns it to a heavy penalty . 
w The fine is levied on each of the inhabitants and the sheriff of the county , who is the officer of justice , executes the mandate . 
w See Act of February , , Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
These proceedings are easy to follow and to understand . 
The demands made upon a township are in general plain and accurately defined they consist in a simple fact without any complication , or in a principle without its application in detail . 
x But the difficulty increases when it is not the obedience of the township , but that of the town officers which is to be enforced . 
All the reprehensible actions of which a public functionary may be guilty are reducible to the following heads x There is an indirect method of enforcing the obedience of a township . 
Suppose that the funds which the law demands for the maintenance of the roads have not been voted , the town surveyor is then authorized , ex officio , to levy the supplies . 
Thus by threatening the officer the Court of Sessions exacts compliance from the town . 
See Act of March , , Id . 
He may execute the law without energy or zeal He may neglect to execute the law He may do what the law enjoins him not to do . 
The last two violations of duty can alone come under the cognizance of a tribunal a positive and appreciable fact is the indispensable foundation of an action at law . 
The Court of Sessions , even when it is invested with its official powers , is in this case unable to compel him to a more satisfactory obedience . 
The only security of that active and enlightened obedience which a court of justice cannot impose upon public officers lies in the possibility of their arbitrary removal . 
In France this security is sought for in powers exercised by the heads of the administration in America it is sought for in the principle of election . 
y Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
This system undoubtedly possesses great advantages , but its execution is attended with a practical difficulty which it is important to point out . 
See the Act quoted above , February , . 
I have already observed that the administrative tribunal , which is called the Court of Sessions , has no right of inspection over the town officers . 
It can only interfere when the conduct of a magistrate is specially brought under its notice and this is the delicate part of the system . 
But to appoint agents in each township would have been to centre in his person the most formidable of powers , that of a judicial administration . 
Moreover , laws are the children of habit , and nothing of the kind exists in the legislation of England . 
The Americans have therefore divided the offices of inspection and of prosecution , as well as all the other functions of the administration . 
Grand jurors are bound by the law to apprise the court to which they belong of all the misdemeanors which may have been committed in their county . 
American legislators are more apt to give men credit for intelligence than for honesty , and they rely not a little on personal cupidity for the execution of the laws . 
When an individual is really and sensibly injured by an administrative abuse , it is natural that his personal interest should induce him to prosecute . 
The only administrative authority above the county magistrates is , properly speaking , that of the Government . 
a I say the Court of Sessions , because in common courts there is a magistrate who exercises some of the functions of a public prosecutor . 
b The grand jurors are , for instance , bound to inform the court of the bad state of the roads . 
Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
c If , for instance , the treasurer of the county holds back his accounts . 
Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
See Act of March , , vol . 
The same clause is frequently to be met with in the law of Massachusetts . 
Not only are private individuals thus incited to prosecute the public officers , but the public officers are encouraged in the same manner to bring the disobedience of private individuals to justice . 
If a citizen refuses to perform the work which has been assigned to him upon a road , the road surveyor may prosecute him , and he receives half the penalty for himself . 
See the Laws above quoted , vol . 
Townships and a local activity exist in every State but in no part of the confederation is a township to be met with precisely similar to those of New England . 
The power of the elected magistrate is augmented and that of the elector diminished , whilst the public spirit of the local communities is less awakened and less influential . 
f These differences may be perceived to a certain extent in the State of New York they are very sensible in Pennsylvania but they become less striking as we advance to the northwest . 
The majority of the emigrants who settle in the northwestern States are natives of New England , and they carry the habits of their mother country with them into that which they adopt . 
A township in Ohio is by no means dissimilar from a township in Massachusetts . 
f For details see the Revised Statutes of the State of New York , part i . 
, entitled , Of the Powers , Duties , and Privileges of Towns . 
We have seen that in Massachusetts the mainspring of public administration lies in the township . 
It forms the common centre of the interests and affections of the citizens . 
g See the Revised Statutes of the State of New York , part i . 
also in the Acts of the State of Ohio , an act relating to county commissioners , February , , p . 
See the Digest of the Laws of Pennsylvania , at the words County rates and Levies , p . 
In the State of New York each township elects a representative , who has a share in the administration of the county as well as in that of the township . 
Such are the principal differences which the systems of county and town administration present in the Federal States . 
Were it my intention to examine the provisions of American law minutely , I should have to point out still further differences in the executive details of the several communities . 
But what I have already said may suffice to show the general principles on which the administration of the United States rests . 
These principles are differently applied their consequences are more or less numerous in various localities but they are always substantially the same . 
The laws differ , and their outward features change , but their character does not vary . 
The township and the county are therefore bound to take care of their special interests the State governs , but it does not interfere with their administration . 
Exceptions to this rule may be met with , but not a contrary principle . 
The first consequence of this doctrine has been to cause all the magistrates to be chosen either by or at least from amongst the citizens . 
This system obtains from one end of the Union to the other . 
The Anglo Americans derived the institution of justices of the peace from a common source but although it exists in all the States , it is not always turned to the same use . 
h In some of the Southern States the county courts are charged with all the details of the administration . 
See the Statutes of the State of Tennessee , arts . 
Judiciary , Taxes , etc . 
traces of a centralized administration begin to be discernible . 
In the State of New York the officers of the central government exercise , in certain cases , a sort of inspection or control over the secondary bodies . 
i i For instance , the direction of public instruction centres in the hands of the Government . 
The legislature names the members of the University , who are denominated Regents the Governor and Lieutentant Governor of the State are necessarily of the number . 
The Regents of the University annually visit the colleges and academies , and make their report to the legislature . 
Instruction , Revised Statutes , vol . 
The school commissioners are obliged to send an annual report to the Superintendent of the Republic . 
A similar report is annually made to the same person on the number and condition of the poor . 
At other times they constitute a court of appeal for the decision of affairs . 
k The same tendency is faintly observable in some other States l but in general the prominent feature of the administration in the United States is its excessive local independence . 
, he can appeal to the superintendent of the primary schools , whose decision is final . 
The great authorities of the State have the right of watching and controlling the subordinate agents , without that of rewarding or punishing them . 
The same individual is never empowered to give an order and to punish disobedience he has therefore the right of commanding , without the means of exacting compliance . 
He added that if this omission continued he should be obliged to prosecute them , as the law directs , before the proper tribunals . 
k Thus the district attorney is directed to recover all fines below the sum of fifty dollars , unless such a right has been specially awarded to another magistrate . 
l Several traces of centralization may be discovered in Massachusetts for instance , the committees of the town schools are directed to make an annual report to the Secretary of State . 
See Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
Of The State I have described the townships and the administration it now remains for me to speak of the State and the Government . 
These constitutions rest upon a simple and rational theory their forms have been adopted by all constitutional nations , and are become familiar to us . 
In this place , therefore , it is only necessary for me to give a short analysis I shall endeavor afterwards to pass judgment upon what I now describe . 
The legislative power of the State is vested in two assemblies , the first of which generally bears the name of the Senate . 
The Senate is commonly a legislative body but it sometimes becomes an executive and judicial one . 
It partakes of judicial power in the trial of certain political offences , and sometimes also in the decision of certain civil cases . 
n The number of its members is always small . 
The members of the two Houses are nearly everywhere subject to the same conditions of election . 
They are chosen in the same manner , and by the same citizens . 
The only difference which exists between them is , that the term for which the Senate is chosen is in general longer than that of the House of Representatives . 
The latter seldom remain in office longer than a year the former usually sit two or three years . 
m In Massachusetts the Senate is not invested with any administrative functions . 
n As in the State of New York . 
It was not their object to create in the one a bulwark to power , whilst the other represented the interests and passions of the people . 
Time and experience , however , have convinced the Americans that if these are its only advantages , the division of the legislative power is still a principle of the greatest necessity . 
Thus the principle of the division of the legislative power was finally established , and its necessity may henceforward be regarded as a demonstrated truth . 
The executive power of the State may with truth be said to be represented by the Governor , although he enjoys but a portion of its rights . 
The supreme magistrate , under the title of Governor , is the official moderator and counsellor of the legislature . 
He is armed with a veto or suspensive power , which allows him to stop , or at least to retard , its movements at pleasure . 
o In the absence of the legislature , the Governor is bound to take all necessary steps to guard the State against violent shocks and unforeseen dangers . 
The whole military power of the State is at the disposal of the Governor . 
He is the commander of the militia , and head of the armed force . 
p The Governor is an elected magistrate , and is generally chosen for one or two years only so that he always continues to be strictly dependent upon the majority who returned him . 
p In some of the States the justices of the peace are not elected by the Governor . 
Centralization is become a word of general and daily use , without any precise meaning being attached to it . 
Nevertheless , there exist two distinct kinds of centralization , which it is necessary to discriminate with accuracy . 
Certain interests are common to all parts of a nation , such as the enactment of its general laws and the maintenance of its foreign relations . 
Other interests are peculiar to certain parts of the nation such , for instance , as the business of different townships . 
When the power which directs the general interests is centred in one place , or vested in the same persons , it constitutes a central government . 
In like manner the power of directing partial or local interests , when brought together into one place , constitutes what may be termed a central administration . 
Upon some points these two kinds of centralization coalesce but by classifying the objects which fall more particularly within the province of each of them , they may easily be distinguished . 
It is evident that a central government acquires immense power when united to administrative centralization . 
These two kinds of centralization mutually assist and attract each other but they must not be supposed to be inseparable . 
It is impossible to imagine a more completely central government than that which existed in France under Louis XIV . 
Nevertheless , the administration was much less centralized under Louis XIV . 
than it is at the present day . 
Indeed , I cannot conceive that a nation can enjoy a secure or prosperous existence without a powerful centralization of government . 
But I am of opinion that a central administration enervates the nations in which it exists by incessantly diminishing their public spirit . 
It may ensure a victory in the hour of strife , but it gradually relaxes the sinews of strength . 
It may contribute admirably to the transient greatness of a man , but it cannot ensure the durable prosperity of a nation . 
It is frequently asserted , and we are prepared to assent to the proposition , that the German empire was never able to bring all its powers into action . 
We have shown that in the United States no central administration and no dependent series of public functionaries exist . 
Local authority has been carried to lengths which no European nation could endure without great inconvenience , and which has even produced some disadvantageous consequences in America . 
Its own determination is , therefore , the only limit to this action . 
In juxtaposition to it , and under its immediate control , is the representative of the executive power , whose duty it is to constrain the refractory to submit by superior force . 
The only symptom of weakness lies in certain details of the action of the Government . 
q The State usually employs the officers of the township or the county to deal with the citizens . 
This method of collecting taxes is slow as well as inconvenient , and it would prove a perpetual hindrance to a Government whose pecuniary demands were large . 
But it will always be easy for the central government , organized as it is in America , to introduce new and more efficacious modes of action , proportioned to its wants . 
The legislative bodies daily encroach upon the authority of the Government , and their tendency , like that of the French Convention , is to appropriate it entirely to themselves . 
The system of local administration produces several different effects in America . 
The want of these regulations is severely felt , and is frequently observed by Europeans . 
Certain undertakings are of importance to the whole State but they cannot be put in execution , because there is no national administration to direct them . 
Abandoned to the exertions of the towns or counties , under the care of elected or temporary agents , they lead to no result , or at least to no durable benefit . 
r The authority which represents the State ought not , I think , to waive the right of inspecting the local administration , even when it does not interfere more actively . 
But I deny that such is the case when the people is as enlightened , as awake to its interests , and as accustomed to reflect on them , as the Americans are . 
I am persuaded , on the contrary , that in this case the collective strength of the citizens will always conduce more efficaciously to the public welfare than the authority of the Government . 
But whenever a central administration affects to supersede the persons most interested , I am inclined to suppose that it is either misled or desirous to mislead . 
However enlightened and however skilful a central power may be , it cannot of itself embrace all the details of the existence of a great nation . 
Such vigilance exceeds the powers of man . 
And when it attempts to create and set in motion so many complicated springs , it must submit to a very imperfect result , or consume itself in bootless efforts . 
Even whilst it invokes their assistance , it is on the condition that they shall act exactly as much as the Government chooses , and exactly in the manner it appoints . 
the citizen had rather remain a passive spectator than a dependent actor in schemes with which he is unacquainted . 
s China appears to me to present the most perfect instance of that species of well being which a completely central administration may furnish to the nations among which it exists . 
Travellers assure us that the Chinese have peace without happiness , industry without improvement , stability without strength , and public order without public morality . 
The condition of society is always tolerable , never excellent . 
I am convinced that , when China is opened to European observation , it will be found to contain the most perfect model of a central administration which exists in the universe . 
It is undeniable that the want of those uniform regulations which control the conduct of every inhabitant of France is not unfrequently felt in the United States . 
Gross instances of social indifference and neglect are to be met with , and from time to time disgraceful blemishes are seen in complete contrast with the surrounding civilization . 
In America the power which conducts the Government is far less regular , less enlightened , and less learned , but an hundredfold more authoritative than in Europe . 
At any rate I am suspicious of a benefit which is united to so many evils , and I am not averse to an evil which is compensated by so many benefits . 
In certain countries of Europe the natives consider themselves as a kind of settlers , indifferent to the fate of the spot upon which they live . 
He has only a life interest in these possessions , and he entertains no notions of ownership or of improvement . 
In the present age they are in rapid decay , because their religion is departing , and despotism only remains . 
On close inspection we shall find that religion , and not fear , has ever been the cause of the long lived prosperity of an absolute government . 
Laws cannot succeed in rekindling the ardor of an extinguished faith , but men may be interested in the fate of their country by the laws . 
It is not the administrative but the political effects of the local system that I most admire in America . 
The European generally submits to a public officer because he represents a superior force but to an American he represents a right . 
In America it may be said that no one renders obedience to man , but to justice and to law . 
If the opinion which the citizen entertains of himself is exaggerated , it is at least salutary he unhesitatingly confides in his own powers , which appear to him to be all sufficient . 
This action of individual exertions , joined to that of the public authorities , frequently performs what the most energetic central administration would be unable to execute . 
It would be easy to adduce several facts in proof of what I advance , but I had rather give only one , with which I am more thoroughly acquainted . 
u In America the means which the authorities have at their disposal for the discovery of crimes and the arrest of criminals are few . 
The State police does not exist , and passports are unknown . 
The criminal police of the United States cannot be compared to that of France the magistrates and public prosecutors are not numerous , and the examinations of prisoners are rapid and oral . 
Nevertheless in no country does crime more rarely elude punishment . 
The reason is , that every one conceives himself to be interested in furnishing evidence of the act committed , and in stopping the delinquent . 
During my stay in the United States I witnessed the spontaneous formation of committees for the pursuit and prosecution of a man who had committed a great crime in a certain county . 
u See Appendix , I. I believe that provincial institutions are useful to all nations , but nowhere do they appear to me to be more indispensable than amongst a democratic people . 
In an aristocracy order can always be maintained in the midst of liberty , and as the rulers have a great deal to lose order is to them a first rate consideration . 
In like manner an aristocracy protects the people from the excesses of despotism , because it always possesses an organized power ready to resist a despot . 
But a democracy without provincial institutions has no security against these evils . 
On the other hand , I am convinced that democratic nations are most exposed to fall beneath the yoke of a central administration , for several reasons , amongst which is the following . 
In the French Revolution there were two impulses in opposite directions , which must never be confounded the one was favorable to liberty , the other to despotism . 
Under the ancient monarchy the King was the sole author of the laws , and below the power of the sovereign certain vestiges of provincial institutions , half destroyed , were still distinguishable . 
These provincial institutions were incoherent , ill compacted , and frequently absurd in the hands of the aristocracy they had sometimes been converted into instruments of oppression . 
This double character of the French Revolution is a fact which has been adroitly handled by the friends of absolute power . 
In both countries I have heard a thousand different causes assigned for the evils of the State , but the local system was never mentioned amongst them . 
I have heard citizens attribute the power and prosperity of their country to a multitude of reasons , but they all placed the advantages of local institutions in the foremost rank . 
The judicial organization of the United States is the institution which a stranger has the greatest difficulty in understanding . 
The Americans have retained all the ordinary characteristics of judicial authority , and have carefully restricted its action to the ordinary circle of its functions . 
The first characteristic of judicial power in all nations is the duty of arbitration . 
But rights must be contested in order to warrant the interference of a tribunal and an action must be brought to obtain the decision of a judge . 
As long , therefore , as the law is uncontested , the judicial authority is not called upon to discuss it , and it may exist without being perceived . 
But if he pronounces upon a law without resting upon a case , he clearly steps beyond his sphere , and invades that of the legislative authority . 
The second characteristic of judicial power is that it pronounces on special cases , and not upon general principles . 
The third characteristic of the judicial power is its inability to act unless it is appealed to , or until it has taken cognizance of an affair . 
This characteristic is less general than the other two but , notwithstanding the exceptions , I think it may be regarded as essential . 
The judicial power is by its nature devoid of action it must be put in motion in order to produce a result . 
A judicial functionary who should open proceedings , and usurp the censorship of the laws , would in some measure do violence to the passive nature of his authority . 
His position is therefore perfectly similar to that of the magistrate of other nations and he is nevertheless invested with immense political power . 
The cause of this difference lies in the simple fact that the Americans have acknowledged the right of the judges to found their decisions on the constitution rather than on the laws . 
In other words , they have left them at liberty not to apply such laws as may appear to them to be unconstitutional . 
This fact can only be explained by the principles of the American constitution . 
immutable and the received theory is that no power has the right of changing any part of it . 
The political theories of America are more simple and more rational . 
An American constitution is not supposed to be immutable as in France , nor is it susceptible of modification by the ordinary powers of society as in England . 
In America the constitution may therefore vary , but as long as it exists it is the origin of all authority , and the sole vehicle of the predominating force . 
a a The fifth article of the original Constitution of the United States provides the mode in which amendments of the Constitution may be made . 
Amendments must be proposed by two thirds of both Houses of Congress , and ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of the several States . 
The original Constitution of the United States , followed by these fifteen amendments , is printed at the end of this edition . 
It is easy to perceive in what manner these differences must act upon the position and the rights of the judicial bodies in the three countries I have cited . 
They would therefore take the place of the nation , and exercise as absolute a sway over society as the inherent weakness of judicial power would allow them to do . 
the will of the people , than to men who represent no one but themselves . 
But neither of these remarks is applicable to America . 
This condition is essential to the power of the judicature , for to select that legal obligation by which he is most strictly bound is the natural right of every magistrate . 
In this case the State motive clearly prevails over the motives of an individual . 
In America , where the nation can always reduce its magistrates to obedience by changing its constitution , no danger of this kind is to be feared . 
Upon this point , therefore , the political and the logical reasons agree , and the people as well as the judges preserve their privileges . 
But from the time that a judge has refused to apply any given law in a case , that law loses a portion of its moral cogency . 
The persons to whose interests it is prejudicial learn that means exist of evading its authority , and similar suits are multiplied , until it becomes powerless . 
One of two alternatives must then be resorted to the people must alter the constitution , or the legislature must repeal the law . 
The errors of the legislator are exposed whenever their evil consequences are most felt , and it is always a positive and appreciable fact which serves as the basis of a prosecution . 
I am inclined to believe this practice of the American courts to be at once the most favorable to liberty as well as to public order . 
The laws would consequently be attacked when the power from which they emanate is weak , and obeyed when it is strong . 
But the American judge is brought into the political arena independently of his own will . 
He only judges the law because he is obliged to judge a case . 
The political question which he is called upon to resolve is connected with the interest of the suitors , and he cannot refuse to decide it without abdicating the duties of his post . 
He performs his functions as a citizen by fulfilling the precise duties which belong to his profession as a magistrate . 
The Americans have often felt this disadvantage , but they have left the remedy incomplete , lest they should give it an efficacy which might in some cases prove dangerous . 
Other Powers Granted To American Judges The United States all the citizens have the right of indicting public functionaries before the ordinary tribunals How they use this right Art . 
of the French Constitution of the An VIII The Americans and the English cannot understand the purport of this clause . 
Nor do the springs of government appear to me to be weakened in the United States by the custom which renders all public officers responsible to the judges of the land . 
I was struck by the small number of political trials which occur in the United States , but I had no difficulty in accounting for this circumstance . 
A lawsuit , of whatever nature it may be , is always a difficult and expensive undertaking . 
It is easy to attack a public man in a journal , but the motives which can warrant an action at law must be serious . 
This does not depend upon the republican form of American institutions , for the same facts present themselves in England . 
These two nations do not regard the impeachment of the principal officers of State as a sufficient guarantee of their independence . 
It has since been discovered that when justice is more certain and more mild , it is at the same time more efficacious . 
The English and the Americans hold that tyranny and oppression are to be treated like any other crime , by lessening the penalty and facilitating conviction . 
In the year VIII of the French Republic a constitution was drawn up in which the following clause was introduced Art . 
This clause survived the Constitution de l'An VIII , and it is still maintained in spite of the just complaints of the nation . 
I have always found the utmost difficulty in explaining its meaning to Englishmen or Americans . 
Political Jurisdiction In The United States I understand , by political jurisdiction , that temporary right of pronouncing a legal decision with which a political body may be invested . 
It has been thought better to introduce a temporary confusion between the functions of the different authorities than to violate the necessary principle of the unity of government . 
a As it existed under the constitutional monarchy down to . 
In both countries the Upper House may make use of all the existing penal laws of the nation to punish the delinquents . 
But the Senate can only try such persons as are brought before it by the House of Representatives , and those persons must belong to the class of public functionaries . 
Thus the jurisdiction of the Senate is less extensive than that of the Peers of France , whilst the right of impeachment by the Representatives is more general than that of the Deputies . 
This accurately illustrates the subject we are treating . 
But in this case the political interdict is a consequence of the sentence , and not the sentence itself . 
In Europe the sentence of a political tribunal is to be regarded as a judicial verdict rather than as an administrative measure . 
This is evidently an administrative measure sanctioned by the formalities of a judicial decision . 
It is therefore necessary to try them all in order to deprive them of their authority . 
But military officers are dependent on the chief magistrate of the State , who is himself a civil functionary , and the decision which condemns him is a blow upon them all . 
If we now compare the American and the European systems , we shall meet with differences no less striking in the different effects which each of them produces or may produce . 
In France and in England the jurisdiction of political bodies is looked upon as an extraordinary resource , which is only to be employed in order to rescue society from unwonted dangers . 
In this respect it probably exercises more real influence on the social body in America than in Europe . 
We must not be misled by the apparent mildness of the American legislation in all that relates to political jurisdiction . 
The principal object of the political tribunals of Europe is to punish the offender the purpose of those in America is to deprive him of his authority . 
Nothing can be more alarming than the excessive latitude with which political offences are described in the laws of America . 
Many of the Constitutions of the States are even less explicit . 
c But I will venture to affirm that it is precisely their mildness which renders the American laws most formidable in this respect . 
The consequence is that in Europe political tribunals are invested with rights which they are afraid to use , and that the fear of punishing too much hinders them from punishing at all . 
But in America no one hesitates to inflict a penalty from which humanity does not recoil . 
But this sentence , which it is so easy to pronounce , is not the less fatally severe to the majority of those upon whom it is inflicted . 
The influence exercised in the United States upon the progress of society by the jurisdiction of political bodies may not appear to be formidable , but it is only the more immense . 
If the power is decreased , it can , on the other hand , be more conveniently employed and more easily abused . 
When the American republics begin to degenerate it will be easy to verify the truth of this observation , by remarking whether the number of political impeachments augments . 
c See the constitutions of Illinois , Maine , Connecticut , and Georgia . 
But all the States which I have considered as independent are forced to submit , in certain cases , to the supreme authority of the Union . 
The time is now come for me to examine separately the supremacy with which the Union has been invested , and to cast a rapid glance over the Federal Constitution . 
Chapter Summary Origin of the first Union Its weakness Congress appeals to the constituent authority Interval of two years between this appeal and the promulgation of the new Constitution . 
Hence arose two opposite tendencies , the one prompting the Anglo Americans to unite , the other to divide their strength . 
a But no sooner was peace concluded than the faults of the legislation became manifest , and the State seemed to be suddenly dissolved . 
Each colony became an independent republic , and assumed an absolute sovereignty . 
It was already on the verge of destruction , when it officially proclaimed its inability to conduct the government , and appealed to the constituent authority of the nation . 
All ages have furnished the spectacle of a people struggling with energy to win its independence and the efforts of the Americans in throwing off the English yoke have been considerably exaggerated . 
This national commission , after long and mature deliberation , offered to the acceptance of the people the body of general laws which still rules the Union . 
All the States adopted it successively . 
d The new Federal Government commenced its functions in , after an interregnum of two years . 
The Revolution of America terminated when that of France began . 
a See the articles of the first confederation formed in . 
This constitution was not adopted by all the States until . 
See also the analysis given of this constitution in The Federalist from No. to No. , inclusive , and Story's Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States , pp . 
b Congress made this declaration on February , . 
c It consisted of fifty five members Washington , Madison , Hamilton , and the two Morrises were amongst the number . 
Summary Of The Federal Constitution Division of authority between the Federal Government and the States The Government of the States is the rule , the Federal Government the exception . 
Thus the government of the States remained the rule , and that of the Confederation became the exception . 
e e See the Amendment to the Federal Constitution Federalist , No. Story , p . 
For instance , Congress has the right of making a general law on bankruptcy , which , however , it neglects to do . 
Each State is then at liberty to make a law for itself . 
This point has been established by discussion in the law courts , and may be said to belong more properly to jurisprudence . 
g f The action of this court is indirect , as we shall hereafter show . 
Those which are to remain in the State Governments are numerous and indefinite . 
The former will be exercised principally on external objects , as war , peace , negotiation , and foreign commerce . 
The powers reserved to the several States will extend to all the objects which , in the ordinary course of affairs , concern the internal order and prosperity of the State . 
I shall often have occasion to quote The Federalist in this work . 
With this view they published a series of articles in the shape of a journal , which now form a complete treatise . 
They entitled their journal The Federalist , a name which has been retained in the work . 
The Federalist is an excellent book , which ought to be familiar to the statesmen of all countries , although it especially concerns America . 
The external relations of a people may be compared to those of private individuals , and they cannot be advantageously maintained without the agency of a single head of a Government . 
The exclusive right of making peace and war , of concluding treaties of commerce , of raising armies , and equipping fleets , was granted to the Union . 
k Lastly , as it was necessary that the Federal Government should be able to fulfil its engagements , it was endowed with an unlimited power of levying taxes . 
l h See Constitution , sect . 
and Kent's Commentaries , vol . 
j Even in these cases its interference is indirect . 
The Union interferes by means of the tribunals , as will be hereafter shown . 
k Federal Constitution , sect . 
I. l Constitution , sects . 
, , and Federalist , Nos . 
, inclusive , and Kent's Commentaries , vol . 
Take , for instance , the two following examples . 
In these two essential points , therefore , the Union exercises more central authority than the French monarchy possessed , although the Union is only an assemblage of confederate republics . 
In Spain certain provinces had the right of establishing a system of custom house duties peculiar to themselves , although that privilege belongs , by its very nature , to the national sovereignty . 
In America the Congress alone has the right of regulating the commercial relations of the States . 
The government of the Confederation is therefore more centralized in this respect than the kingdom of Spain . 
Federal Powers After having settled the limits within which the Federal Government was to act , the next point was to determine the powers which it was to exert . 
Legislative Powers m m In this chapter the author points out the essence of the conflict between the seceding States and the Union which caused the Civil War of . 
The plan which had been laid down beforehand for the Constitutions of the several States was followed , in many points , in the organization of the powers of the Union . 
The Federal legislature of the Union was composed of a Senate and a House of Representatives . 
A spirit of conciliation prescribed the observance of distinct principles in the formation of these two assemblies . 
I have already shown that two contrary interests were opposed to each other in the establishment of the Federal Constitution . 
These two interests had given rise to two opinions . 
The practical consequences of these two theories were exceedingly different . 
But if the former system would have invested them with an excessive authority , the latter would have annulled their influence altogether . 
Under these circumstances the result was , that the strict rules of logic were evaded , as is usually the case when interests are opposed to arguments . 
A middle course was hit upon by the legislators , which brought together by force two systems theoretically irreconcilable . 
The principle of the independence of the States prevailed in the formation of the Senate , and that of the sovereignty of the nation predominated in the composition of the House of Representatives . 
It was decided that each State should send two senators to Congress , and a number of representatives proportioned to its population . 
Thus , if the minority of the nation preponderates in the Senate , . 
it may paralyze the decisions of the majority represented in the other House , which is contrary to the spirit of constitutional government . 
n Every ten years Congress fixes anew the number of representatives which each State is to furnish . 
The total number was in , and in . 
The Constitution decided that there should not be more than one representative for every , persons but no minimum was fixed on . 
The Congress has not thought fit to augment the number of representatives in proportion to the increase of population . 
decided that there should be one representative for every , inhabitants . 
The last Act , which was passed in , fixes the proportion at one for , . 
The population represented is composed of all the free men and of three fifths of the slaves . 
The last Act of apportionment , passed February , , fixes the representation at one to , inhabitants . 
members of the lower House of Congress , and for the States at large , making in all members . 
The old States have of course lost the representatives which the new States have gained . 
These facts show how rare and how difficult it is rationally and logically to combine all the several parts of legislation . 
It is , however , just to acknowledge that this part of the Constitution has not hitherto produced those evils which might have been feared . 
The object of the Federal Constitution was not to destroy the independence of the States , but to restrain it . 
, they disavowed beforehand the habitual use of constraint in enforcing g the decisions of the majority . 
The functions of the House of Representatives are purely legislative , and the only share it takes in the judicial power is in the impeachment of public officers . 
The Senate co operates in the work of legislation , and tries those political offences which the House of Representatives submits to its decision . 
o o See The Federalist , Nos . 
, inclusive Story , pp . 
Constitution of the United States , sects . 
The Executive Power p p See The Federalist , Nos . 
Constitution of the United States , art . 
It was indispensable to the maintenance of the republican form of government that the representative of the executive power should be subject to the will of the nation . 
The President is an elective magistrate . 
His honor , his property , his liberty , and his life are the securities which the people has for the temperate use of his power . 
This dependence of the executive power is one of the defects inherent in republican constitutions . 
The Americans have not been able to counteract the tendency which legislative assemblies have to get possession of the government , but they have rendered this propensity less irresistible . 
The salary of the President is fixed , at the time of his entering upon office , for the whole period of his magistracy . 
The veto is , in fact , a sort of appeal to the people . 
The executive power , which , without this security , might have been secretly oppressed , adopts this means of pleading its cause and stating its motives . 
This point is more prominent and more discoverable in republics , whilst it is more remote and more carefully concealed in monarchies , but it always exists somewhere . 
There is no country in the world in which everything can be provided for by the laws , or in which political institutions can prove a substitute for common sense and public morality . 
In this comparison I shall pay but little attention to the external signs of power , which are more apt to deceive the eye of the observer than to guide his researches . 
The English , after having cut off the head of one king and expelled another from his throne , were accustomed to accost the successor of those princes upon their knees . 
It is therefore necessary to look below the surface . 
The Americans have a federal and the French a national Government . 
The President is also the executor of the laws , but he does not really co operate in their formation , since the refusal of his assent does not annul them . 
He is therefore merely to be considered as the agent of the sovereign power . 
But not only does the King of France exercise a portion of the sovereign power , he also contributes to the nomination of the legislature , which exercises the other portion . 
The King has the same right of bringing forward measures as the Chambers a right which the President does not possess . 
The King is represented in each assembly by his ministers , who explain his intentions , support his opinions , and maintain the principles of the Government . 
The President and his ministers are alike excluded from Congress so that his influence and his opinions can only penetrate indirectly into that great body . 
The King of France is therefore on an equal footing with the legislature , which can no more act without him than he can without it . 
The President exercises an authority inferior to , and depending upon , that of the legislature . 
The President of the United States is a magistrate elected for four years the King , in France , is an hereditary sovereign . 
In the exercise of the executive power the President of the United States is constantly subject to a jealous scrutiny . 
He may make , but he cannot conclude , a treaty he may designate , but he cannot appoint , a public officer . 
q The King of France is absolute within the limits of his authority . 
The President of the United States is responsible for his actions but the person of the King is declared inviolable by the French Charter . 
r q The Constitution had left it doubtful whether the President was obliged to consult the Senate in the removal as well as in the appointment of Federal officers . 
See Kent's Commentaries , vol . 
r This comparison applied to the Constitutional King of France and to the powers he held under the Charter of , till the overthrow of the monarchy in . 
Nevertheless , the supremacy of public opinion is no less above the head of the one than of the other . 
This power is less definite , less evident , and less sanctioned by the laws in France than in America , but in fact it exists . 
The fundamental principle of legislation a principle essentially republican is the same in both countries , although its consequences may be different , and its results more or less extensive . 
Whence I am led to conclude that France with its King is nearer akin to a republic than the Union with its President is to a monarchy . 
I have remarked that the authority of the President in the United States is only exercised within the limits of a partial sovereignty , whilst that of the King in France is undivided . 
Amongst the examples of this influence may be quoted that which results from the great number of public functionaries , who all derive their appointments from the Government . 
This number now exceeds all previous limits it amounts to , s nominations , each of which may be considered as an element of power . 
The President of the United States has not the exclusive right of making any public appointments , and their whole number scarcely exceeds , . 
t s The sums annually paid by the State to these officers amount to , , fr . 
t This number is extracted from the National Calendar for . 
The National Calendar is an American almanac which contains the names of all the Federal officers . 
If the executive government is feebler in America than in France , the cause is more attributable to the circumstances than to the laws of the country . 
It is chiefly in its foreign relations that the executive power of a nation is called upon to exert its skill and its vigor . 
The practical part of a Government must not be judged by the theory of its constitution . 
The laws allow him to possess a degree of influence which circumstances do not permit him to employ . 
On the other hand , the great strength of the royal prerogative in France arises from circumstances far more than from the laws . 
If the laws had made it as feeble and as circumscribed as it is in the Union , its influence would very soon become still more preponderant . 
A King in Europe requires the support of the legislature to enable him to perform the duties imposed upon him by the Constitution , because those duties are enormous . 
In America the President cannot prevent any law from being passed , nor can he evade the obligation of enforcing it . 
His sincere and zealous co operation is no doubt useful , but it is not indispensable , in the carrying on of public affairs . 
All his important acts are directly or indirectly submitted to the legislature , and of his own free authority he can do but little . 
It is therefore his weakness , and not his power , which enables him to remain in opposition to Congress . 
The dangers of the elective system increase , therefore , in the exact ratio of the influence exercised by the executive power in the affairs of State . 
The revolutions of Poland were not solely attributable to the elective system in general , but to the fact that the elected monarch was the sovereign of a powerful kingdom . 
The prize of fortune must be great to encourage adventurers in so desperate a game . 
, that I feel no passion , I take no part , I express no sentiment . 
It appears to me just to leave to my successor the commencement of those measures which he will have to prosecute , and for which he will be responsible . 
On the other hand , the eyes of the nation are centred on a single point all are watching the gradual birth of so important an event . 
In the United States the action of the Government may be slackened with impunity , because it is always weak and circumscribed . 
u u This , however , may be a great danger . 
No greater evil could befall a nation . 
One of the principal vices of the elective system is that it always introduces a certain degree of instability into the internal and external policy of the State . 
But this disadvantage is less sensibly felt if the share of power vested in the elected magistrate is small . 
In Rome the principles of the Government underwent no variation , although the Consuls were changed every year , because the Senate , which was an hereditary assembly , possessed the directing authority . 
If the elective system were adopted in Europe , the condition of most of the monarchical States would be changed at every new election . 
In America the President exercises a certain influence on State affairs , but he does not conduct them the preponderating power is vested in the representatives of the whole nation . 
But the want of fixed principles is an evil so inherent in the elective system that it is still extremely perceptible in the narrow sphere to which the authority of the President extends . 
The consequence of this arrangement is , that at every new election the fate of all the Federal public officers is in suspense . 
It is sometimes made a subject of complaint that in the constitutional monarchies of Europe the fate of the humbler servants of an Administration depends upon that of the Ministers . 
But in elective Governments this evil is far greater . 
Their independence is never threatened . 
Few of the nations of Europe could escape the calamities of anarchy or of conquest every time they might have to elect a new sovereign . 
Besides the dangers which are inherent in the system , many other difficulties may arise from the mode of election , which may be obviated by the precaution of the legislator . 
The Polish laws , which subjected the election of the sovereign to the veto of a single individual , suggested the murder of that individual or prepared the way to anarchy . 
The nation possessed two of the main causes of internal peace it was a new country , but it was inhabited by a people grown old in the exercise of freedom . 
America had no hostile neighbors to dread and the American legislators , profiting by these favorable circumstances , created a weak and subordinate executive power which could without danger be made elective . 
Their object was to find the mode of election which would best express the choice of the people with the least possible excitement and suspense . 
The means by which it was proposed to obviate this second obstacle was to delegate the electoral powers of the nation to a body of representatives . 
This mode of election rendered a majority more probable for the fewer the electors are , the greater is the chance of their coming to a final decision . 
It also offered an additional probability of a judicious choice . 
w This double election rendered a majority probable , though not certain for it was possible that as many differences might exist between the electors as between their constituents . 
x v As many as it sends members to Congress . 
The number of electors at the election of was . 
This is one of the singularities of the Federal Constitution which can only be explained by the jar of conflicting interests . 
y Jefferson , in , was not elected until the thirty sixth time of balloting . 
In the forty four years which have elapsed since the promulgation of the Federal Constitution the United States have twelve times chosen a President . 
Ten of these elections took place simultaneously by the votes of the special electors in the different States . 
the eighteenth President of the United States . 
Crises Of The Election The Election may be considered as a national crisis Why ? Passions of the people Anxiety of the President Calm which succeeds the agitation of the election . 
I have shown what the circumstances are which favored the adoption of the elective system in the United States , and what precautions were taken by the legislators to obviate its dangers . 
The Americans are habitually accustomed to all kinds of elections , and they know by experience the utmost degree of excitement which is compatible with security . 
The vast extent of the country and the dissemination of the inhabitants render a collision between parties less probable and less dangerous there than elsewhere . 
The political circumstances under which the elections have hitherto been carried on have presented no real embarrassments to the nation . 
Nevertheless , the epoch of the election of a President of the United States may be considered as a crisis in the affairs of the nation . 
For a long while before the appointed time is at hand the election becomes the most important and the all engrossing topic of discussion . 
The ardor of faction is redoubled and all the artificial passions which the imagination can create in the bosom of a happy and peaceful land are agitated and brought to light . 
The President , on the other hand , is absorbed by the cares of self defence . 
The election of President Lincoln was the signal of civil war . 
It may be asked whether the legislators of the United States did right or wrong in allowing the re election of the President . 
It seems at first sight contrary to all reason to prevent the head of the executive power from being elected a second time . 
But if these arguments are strong , perhaps still more powerful reasons may be advanced against them . 
The private citizen , who employs the most immoral practices to acquire power , can only act in a manner indirectly prejudicial to the public prosperity . 
But if the representative of the executive descends into the combat , the cares of government dwindle into second rate importance , and the success of his election is his first concern . 
The principle of re eligibility renders the corrupt influence of elective government still more extensive and pernicious . 
In America it exercises a peculiarly fatal influence on the sources of national existence . 
Every government seems to be afflicted by some evil which is inherent in its nature , and the genius of the legislator is shown in eluding its attacks . 
The greatest proof of the ability of the American legislators is , that they clearly discerned this truth , and that they had the courage to act up to it . 
But by introducing the principle of re election they partly destroyed their work and they rendered the President but little inclined to exert the great power they had vested in his hands . 
, the President of the United States becomes an easy tool in the hands of the majority . 
Federal Courts b b See chap . 
VI , entitled Judicial Power in the United States . 
This chapter explains the general principles of the American theory of judicial institutions . 
See also the Federal Constitution , Art . 
See The Federalists , Nos . 
, inclusive and a work entitled Constitutional Law , being a view of the practice and jurisdiction of the courts of the United States , by Thomas Sergeant . 
, , , , , and the organic law of September , , in the Collection of the Laws of the United States , by Story , vol . 
I can scarcely hope to escape these various evils for if I appear too lengthy to a man of the world , a lawyer may on the other hand complain of my brevity . 
But these are the natural disadvantages of my subject , and more especially of the point which I am about to discuss . 
The great difficulty was , not to devise the Constitution to the Federal Government , but to find out a method of enforcing its laws . 
Governments have in general but two means of overcoming the opposition of the people they govern , viz . 
, the physical force which is at their own disposal , and the moral force which they derive from the decisions of the courts of justice . 
So that its activity would not be less prejudicial to the community than its inaction . 
A federal government stands in greater need of the support of judicial institutions than any other , because it is naturally weak and exposed to formidable opposition . 
c If it were always obliged to resort to violence in the first instance , it could not fulfil its task . 
The Union , therefore , required a national judiciary to enforce the obedience of the citizens to the laws , and to repeal the attacks which might be directed against them . 
The separation of the judiciary from the administrative power of the State no doubt affects the security of every citizen and the liberty of all . 
No one , I presume , ever suggested the advantage of trying offences committed in France by a foreign court of justice , in order to secure the impartiality of the judges . 
To entrust the execution of the laws of the Union to tribunals instituted by these political bodies would be to allow foreign judges to preside over the nation . 
Thus to enforce the laws of the Union by means of the tribunals of the States would be to allow not only foreign but partial judges to preside over the nation . 
c Federal laws are those which most require courts of justice , and those at the same time which have most rarely established them . 
But the number , still more than the mere character , of the tribunals of the States rendered them unfit for the service of the nation . 
When the Federal Constitution was formed there were already thirteen courts of justice in the United States which decided causes without appeal . 
That number is now increased to twenty four . 
The American legislators therefore agreed to create a federal judiciary power to apply the laws of the Union , and to determine certain questions affecting general interests , which were carefully determined beforehand . 
The entire judicial power of the Union was centred in one tribunal , which was denominated the Supreme Court of the United States . 
The members of the Supreme Court are named neither by the people nor the legislature , but by the President of the United States , acting with the advice of the Senate . 
d It was easy to proclaim the principle of a Federal judiciary , but difficulties multiplied when the extent of its jurisdiction was to be determined . 
d The Union was divided into districts , in each of which a resident Federal judge was appointed , and the court in which he presided was termed a District Court . 
The jury was introduced into the Federal Courts in the same manner , and in the same cases , as into the courts of the States . 
It will be observed that no analogy exists between the Supreme Court of the United States and the French Cour de Cassation , since the latter only hears appeals on questions of law . 
See the law of September , , Laws of the United States , by Story , vol . 
The question then arose to whom the right of deciding the competency of each court was to be referred . 
But it was impossible to create an arbiter between a superior court of the Union and the superior court of a separate State which would not belong to one of these two classes . 
It was , therefore , necessary to allow one of these courts to judge its own cause , and to take or to retain cognizance of the point which was contested . 
The Supreme Court of the United States was therefore invested with the right of determining all questions of jurisdiction . 
The Supreme Court of Virginia contested the right of the Supreme Court of the United States to judge an appeal from its decisions , but unsuccessfully . 
See Kent's Commentaries , vol . 
and The Organic Law of the United States , vol . 
Nevertheless , the dangers with which the independence of the States was threatened by this mode of proceeding are less serious than they appeared to be . 
We shall see hereafter that in America the real strength of the country is vested in the provincial far more than in the Federal Government . 
After having appointed the means of fixing the competency of the Federal courts , the legislators of the Union defined the cases which should come within their jurisdiction . 
These distinctions were therefore admitted to be the basis of the Federal jurisdiction . 
Ambassadors are the representatives of nations in a state of amity with the Union , and whatever concerns these personages concerns in some degree the whole Union . 
When an ambassador is a party in a suit , that suit affects the welfare of the nation , and a Federal tribunal is naturally called upon to decide it . 
When two parties belonging to two different States are engaged in a suit , the case cannot with propriety be brought before a court of either State . 
When the two parties are not private individuals , but States , an important political consideration is added to the same motive of equity . 
f f The Constitution also says that the Federal courts shall decide controversies between a State and the citizens of another State . 
The question was most elaborately considered in the case of Chisholm v . 
Georgia , and was decided by the majority of the Supreme Court in the affirmative . 
See Story's Commentaries , p . 
, or in the large edition Section . 
The nature of the cause frequently prescribes the rule of competency . 
Thus all the questions which concern maritime commerce evidently fall under the cognizance of the Federal tribunals . 
g Almost all these questions are connected with the interpretation of the law of nations , and in this respect they essentially interest the Union in relation to foreign powers . 
Moreover , as the sea is not included within the limits of any peculiar jurisdiction , the national courts can only hear causes which originate in maritime affairs . 
g As for instance , all cases of piracy . 
The Constitution comprises under one head almost all the cases which by their very nature come within the limits of the Federal courts . 
The rule which it lays down is simple , but pregnant with an entire system of ideas , and with a vast multitude of facts . 
It declares that the judicial power of the Supreme Court shall extend to all cases in law and equity arising under the laws of the United States . 
This rule is in perfect accordance with the fundamental principles of the Federal Constitution . 
h Within those limits the Union is sovereign . 
But the inference to be drawn is , that in the laws relating to these matters the Union possesses all the rights of absolute sovereignty . 
But these are exceptions , and the contrary principle is the rule . 
Whenever the laws of the United States are attacked , or whenever they are resorted to in self defence , the Federal courts must be appealed to . 
Thus the jurisdiction of the tribunals of the Union extends and narrows its limits exactly in the same ratio as the sovereignty of the Union augments or decreases . 
We have shown that the principal aim of the legislators of was to divide the sovereign authority into two parts . 
In the one they placed the control of all the general interests of the Union , in the other the control of the special interests of its component States . 
Their chief solicitude was to arm the Federal Government with sufficient power to enable it to resist , within its sphere , the encroachments of the several States . 
When a State of the Union passes a law of this kind , the citizens who are injured by its execution can appeal to the Federal courts . 
The States are likewise prohibited from making laws which may have a tendency to impair the obligations of contracts . 
, that any law which enlarges , abridges , or in any manner changes the intention of the parties , resulting from the stipulations in the contract , necessarily impairs it . 
He gives in the same place a very long and careful definition of what is understood by a contract in Federal jurisprudence . 
A grant made by the State to a private individual , and accepted by him , is a contract , and cannot be revoked by any future law . 
A charter granted by the State to a company is a contract , and equally binding to the State as to the grantee . 
The clause of the Constitution here referred to insures , therefore , the existence of a great part of acquired rights , but not of all . 
Dartmouth College in New Hampshire had been founded by a charter granted to certain individuals before the American Revolution , and its trustees formed a corporation under this charter . 
, and that the emendatory act was utterly void , as impairing the obligation of that charter . 
The college was deemed , like other colleges of private foundation , to be a private eleemosynary institution , endowed by its charter with a capacity to take property unconnected with the Government . 
Its funds were bestowed upon the faith of the charter , and those funds consisted entirely of private donations . 
It was a private institution for general charity . 
It was not distinguishable in principle from a private donation , vested in private trustees , for a public charity , or for a particular purpose of beneficence . 
And the State itself , if it had bestowed funds upon a charity of the same nature , could not resume those funds . 
This provision appears to me to be the most serious attack upon the independence of the States . 
For there are vast numbers of political laws which influence the existence of obligations of contracts , which may thus furnish an easy pretext for the aggressions of the central authority . 
I have shown what the privileges of the Federal courts are , and it is no less important to point out the manner in which they are exercised . 
In federal States the power of the judge is naturally decreased , and that of the justiciable parties is augmented . 
Every government , whatever may be its constitution , requires the means of constraining its subjects to discharge their obligations , and of protecting its privileges from their assaults . 
It is to be observed that the Union chose its own antagonist and as that antagonist is feeble , he is naturally worsted . 
But the difficulty increases when the proceedings are not brought forward by but against the Union . 
k k See Chapter VI . 
on Judicial Power in America . 
l See Kent's Commentaries , vol . 
The last hypothesis that remained was that each State formed a corporation enjoying a separate existence and distinct civil rights , and that it could therefore sue or be sued before a tribunal . 
Thus a State could bring an action against another State . 
In this instance the Union was not called upon to contest a provincial law , but to try a suit in which a State was a party . 
The inherent disadvantage of the very essence of Federal constitutions is that they engender parties in the bosom of the nation which present powerful obstacles to the free course of justice . 
The Supreme Court is placed at the head of all known tribunals , both by the nature of its rights and the class of justiciable parties which it controls . 
In America this theory has been actually put in practice , and the Supreme Court of the United States is the sole tribunal of the nation . 
It may even be affirmed that , although its constitution is essentially judicial , its prerogatives are almost entirely political . 
A second and still greater cause of the preponderance of this court may be adduced . 
The peace , the prosperity , and the very existence of the Union are vested in the hands of the seven judges . 
Their power is enormous , but it is clothed in the authority of public opinion . 
They are the all powerful guardians of a people which respects law , but they would be impotent against popular neglect or popular contempt . 
The President , who exercises a limited power , may err without causing great mischief in the State . 
Congress may decide amiss without destroying the Union , because the electoral body in which Congress originates may cause it to retract its decision by changing its members . 
But if the Supreme Court is ever composed of imprudent men or bad citizens , the Union may be plunged into anarchy or civil war . 
The real cause of this danger , however , does not lie in the constitution of the tribunal , but in the very nature of Federal Governments . 
The source of the evil is not , therefore , in the constitution of the power , but in the constitution of those States which render its existence necessary . 
The objects of the Governments are different , but their forms are the same and in this special point of view there is some advantage in comparing them together . 
I am of opinion that the Federal Constitution is superior to all the Constitutions of the States , for several reasons . 
The present Constitution of the Union was formed at a later period than those of the majority of the States , and it may have derived some ameliorations from past experience . 
, besides the District of Columbia . 
The chief cause of the superiority of the Federal Constitution lay in the character of the legislators who composed it . 
At the time when it was formed the dangers of the Confederation were imminent , and its ruin seemed inevitable . 
In this extremity the people chose the men who most deserved the esteem , rather than those who had gained the affections , of the country . 
I have already observed that distinguished as almost all the legislators of the Union were for their intelligence , they were still more so for their patriotism . 
They had all been nurtured at a time when the spirit of liberty was braced by a continual struggle against a powerful and predominant authority . 
But such men entertain very crude notions , as well of the purposes for which government was instituted as of the true means by which the public happiness may be promoted . 
It is a just observation , that the people commonly intend the public good . 
This often applies to their very errors . 
But their good sense would despise the adulator who should pretend that they always reason right about the means of promoting it . 
They increased the length of the time for which the representatives were returned , in order to give them freer scope for the exercise of their own judgment . 
The Federal Constitution , as well as the Constitutions of the different States , divided the legislative body into two branches . 
But in the States these two branches were composed of the same elements , and elected in the same manner . 
A mature age was made one of the conditions of the senatorial dignity , and the Upper House was chosen by an elected assembly of a limited number of members . 
This concentration is at once prejudicial to a well conducted administration , and favorable to the despotism of the majority . 
The legislators of the States frequently yielded to these democratic propensities , which were invariably and courageously resisted by the founders of the Union . 
He can derive no influence from the duration of his functions , which terminate with the revolving year , or from the exercise of prerogatives which can scarcely be said to exist . 
The Federal Constitution vests all the privileges and all the responsibility of the executive power in a single individual . 
In short , every effort was made to confer a strong and independent position upon the executive authority within the limits which had been prescribed to it . 
In some States the judges are only temporarily appointed , which deprives them of a great portion of their power and their freedom . 
In others the legislative and judicial powers are entirely confounded thus the Senate of New York , for instance , constitutes in certain cases the Superior Court of the State . 
The practical consequences of these different systems may easily be perceived . 
An attentive observer will soon remark that the business of the Union is incomparably better conducted than that of any individual State . 
I recapitulate the substance of this chapter in a few words The existence of democracies is threatened by two dangers , viz . 
, the complete subjection of the legislative body to the caprices of the electoral body , and the concentration of all the powers of the Government in the legislative authority . 
Switzerland , the Germanic Empire , and the Republic of the United Provinces either have been or still are confederations . 
Nevertheless the Federal Government of these different peoples has always been as remarkable for its weakness and inefficiency as that of the Union is for its vigorous and enterprising spirit . 
But the more recent Constitution of the United States contains certain principles which exercise a most important influence , although they do not at once strike the observer . 
The American States which combined in agreed that the Federal Government should not only dictate the laws , but that it should execute it own enactments . 
In both cases the right is the same , but the exercise of the right is different and this alteration produced the most momentous consequences . 
q Such has always been the situation of the Swiss Confederation , which would have perished ages ago but for the mutual jealousies of its neighbors . 
Such is not the case in the American Union , in which , as in ordinary governments , the Federal Government has the means of enforcing all it is empowered to demand . 
The human understanding more easily invents new things than new words , and we are thence constrained to employ a multitude of improper and inadequate expressions . 
The American Confederation perished by the same defects . 
The Americans applied the remedy with prudent firmness as soon as they were conscious of the evil they amended their laws , and they saved their country . 
The desires of every individual are limited , because extraordinary faculties are rarely to be met with . 
The gifts of an equal fortune render the various conditions of life uniform , and the manners of the inhabitants are orderly and simple . 
Tastes as well as actions are to be regulated at its pleasure and the families of the citizens as well as the affairs of the State are to be governed by its decisions . 
This invasion of rights occurs , however , but seldom , and freedom is in truth the natural state of small communities . 
But it may be advanced with confidence that the existence of a great republic will always be exposed to far greater perils than that of a small one . 
r I do not speak of a confederation of small republics , but of a great consolidated Republic . 
All the passions which are most fatal to republican institutions spread with an increasing territory , whilst the virtues which maintain their dignity do not augment in the same proportion . 
It might , indeed , be proved without difficulty that it is less powerful and less sincere . 
But several of these evils are scarcely prejudicial to a monarchy , and some of them contribute to maintain its existence . 
Every one has had occasion to remark that his emotions in the midst of a sympathizing crowd are far greater than those which he would have felt in solitude . 
It may therefore be asserted as a general proposition that nothing is more opposed to the well being and the freedom of man than vast empires . 
Nevertheless it is important to acknowledge the peculiar advantages of great States . 
But in this matter , as in many others , the argument derived from the necessity of the case predominates over all others . 
If none but small nations existed , I do not doubt that mankind would be more happy and more free but the existence of great nations is unavoidable . 
This consideration introduces the element of physical strength as a condition of national prosperity . 
Small nations are often impoverished , not because they are small , but because they are weak the great empires prosper less because they are great than because they are strong . 
Physical strength is therefore one of the first conditions of the happiness and even of the existence of nations . 
This disadvantage does not exist in confederations . 
Congress regulates the principal measures of the national Government , and all the details of the administration are reserved to the provincial legislatures . 
It is impossible to imagine how much this division of sovereignty contributes to the well being of each of the States which compose the Union . 
In these small communities , which are never agitated by the desire of aggrandizement or the cares of self defence , all public authority and private energy is employed in internal amelioration . 
This spirit of amelioration is constantly alive in the American republics , without compromising their tranquillity the ambition of power yields to the less refined and less dangerous love of comfort . 
It is incontestably true that the love and the habits of republican government in the United States were engendered in the townships and in the provincial assemblies . 
The public spirit of the Union is , so to speak , nothing more than an abstract of the patriotic zeal of the provinces . 
Every citizen of the United States transfuses his attachment to his little republic in the common store of American patriotism . 
The confederation of all the American States presents none of the ordinary disadvantages resulting from great agglomerations of men . 
The Union is a great republic in extent , but the paucity of objects for which its Government provides assimilates it to a small State . 
Its acts are important , but they are rare . 
Nevertheless , all commodities and ideas circulate throughout the Union as freely as in a country inhabited by one people . 
Nothing checks the spirit of enterprise . 
Government avails itself of the assistance of all who have talents or knowledge to serve it . 
The Union is as happy and as free as a small people , and as glorious and as strong as a great nation . 
These nations must therefore find the strength necessary to support the natural imperfections of their Government . 
The most prominent evil of all Federal systems is the very complex nature of the means they employ . 
Two sovereignties are necessarily in presence of each other . 
The Federal system therefore rests upon a theory which is necessarily complicated , and which demands the daily exercise of a considerable share of discretion on the part of those it governs . 
A proposition must be plain to be adopted by the understanding of a people . 
A false notion which is clear and precise will always meet with a greater number of adherents in the world than a true principle which is obscure or involved . 
The Constitution of the United States is like those exquisite productions of human industry which ensure wealth and renown to their inventors , but which are profitless in any other hands . 
This truth is exemplified by the condition of Mexico at the present time . 
s But although they had borrowed the letter of the law , they were unable to create or to introduce the spirit and the sense which give it life . 
s See the Mexican Constitution of . 
The principle upon which all confederations rest is that of a divided sovereignty . 
By this means the legislators of the Union have succeeded in diminishing , though not in counteracting the natural danger of confederations . 
Fiction would give way to reality , and an organized portion of the territory might then contest the central authority . 
t The same observation holds good with regard to the Federal jurisdiction . 
u t This is precisely what occurred in , and the following paragraph describes correctly the feelings and notions of the South . 
General Lee held that his primary allegiance was due , not to the Union , but to Virginia . 
u For instance , the Union possesses by the Constitution the right of selling unoccupied lands for its own profit . 
But it may even be affirmed that they were unable to ensure the preponderance of the Federal element in a case of this kind . 
The Union is possessed of money and of troops , but the affections and the prejudices of the people are in the bosom of the States . 
The sovereignty of the Union is factitious , that of the States is natural , and derives its existence from its own simple influence , like the authority of a parent . 
All the peoples which have ever formed a confederation have been held together by a certain number of common interests , which served as the intellectual ties of association . 
But the sentiments and the principles of man must be taken into consideration as well as his immediate interests . 
A certain uniformity of civilization is not less necessary to the durability of a confederation than a uniformity of interests in the States which compose it . 
The most important occurrence which can mark the annals of a people is the breaking out of a war . 
In war a people struggles with the energy of a single man against foreign nations in the defence of its very existence . 
All the peoples which have been obliged to sustain a long and serious warfare have consequently been led to augment the power of their government . 
Those which have not succeeded in this attempt have been subjugated . 
A long war almost always places nations in the wretched alternative of being abandoned to ruin by defeat or to despotism by success . 
War therefore renders the symptoms of the weakness of a government most palpable and most alarming and I have shown that the inherent defeat of federal governments is that of being weak . 
In the Federal Constitution of the United States , by which the central government possesses more real force , this evil is still extremely sensible . 
An example will illustrate the case to the reader . 
They argued that the Constitution authorizes the Federal Government to call forth the militia in case of insurrection or invasion , but that in the present instance there was neither invasion nor insurrection . 
v v Kent's Commentaries , vol . 
I have selected an example which relates to a time posterior to the promulgation of the present Constitution . 
If I had gone back to the days of the Confederation , I might have given still more striking instances . 
Troops and supplies were perpetually wanting . 
All doubt as to the powers of the Federal Executive was , however , removed by its efforts in the Civil War , and those powers were largely extended . 
Canada contains only a million of inhabitants , and its population is divided into two inimical nations . 
The rigor of the climate limits the extension of its territory , and shuts up its ports during the six months of winter . 
From Canada to the Gulf of Mexico a few savage tribes are to be met with , which retire , perishing in their retreat , before six thousand soldiers . 
To the South , the Union has a point of contact with the empire of Mexico and it is thence that serious hostilities may one day be expected to arise . 
w As for the Powers of Europe , they are too distant to be formidable . 
w War broke out between the United States and Mexico in , and ended in the conquest of an immense territory , including California . 
But a sovereign power exists above these institutions and beyond these characteristic features which may destroy or modify them at its pleasure I mean that of the people . 
In the United States the majority governs in the name of the people , as is the case in all the countries in which the people is supreme . 
The majority is principally composed of peaceful citizens who , either by inclination or by interest , are sincerely desirous of the welfare of their country . 
But they are surrounded by the incessant agitation of parties , which attempt to gain their co operation and to avail themselves of their support . 
Parties In The United States A great distinction must be made between parties . 
Parties are a necessary evil in free governments but they have not at all times the same character and the same propensities . 
Such are the times of great revolutions and of great parties . 
But between these epochs of misery and of confusion there are periods during which human society seems to rest , and mankind to make a pause . 
These are the times of small parties and of intrigue . 
The political parties which I style great are those which cling to principles more than to their consequences to general , and not to especial cases to ideas , and not to men . 
These parties are usually distinguished by a nobler character , by more generous passions , more genuine convictions , and a more bold and open conduct than the others . 
Minor parties are , on the other hand , generally deficient in political faith . 
As they are not sustained or dignified by a lofty purpose , they ostensibly display the egotism of their character in their actions . 
They glow with a factitious zeal their language is vehement , but their conduct is timid and irresolute . 
The means they employ are as wretched as the end at which they aim . 
America has already lost the great parties which once divided the nation and if her happiness is considerably increased , her morality has suffered by their extinction . 
The conflict of these two opinions never assumed that degree of violence in America which it has frequently displayed elsewhere . 
The party which desired to limit the power of the people endeavored to apply its doctrines more especially to the Constitution of the Union , whence it derived its name of Federal . 
The other party , which affected to be more exclusively attached to the cause of liberty , took that of Republican . 
Their cause was , moreover , favored by circumstances . 
The ruin of the Confederation had impressed the people with a dread of anarchy , and the Federalists did not fail to profit by this transient disposition of the multitude . 
When the Republicans attained to that lofty station , their opponents were overwhelmed by utter defeat . 
An immense majority declared itself against the retiring party , and the Federalists found themselves in so small a minority that they at once despaired of their future success . 
From that moment the Republican or Democratic party a has proceeded from conquest to conquest , until it has acquired absolute supremacy in the country . 
Many years have already elapsed since they ceased to exist as a party . 
a It is scarcely necessary to remark that in more recent times the signification of these terms has changed . 
The Republicans are the representatives of the old Federalists , and the Democrats of the old Republicans . 
But their Government gave the new republic time to acquire a certain stability , and afterwards to support the rapid growth of the very doctrines which they had combated . 
Great political parties are not , then , to be met with in the United States at the present time . 
The parties by which the Union is menaced do not rest upon abstract principles , but upon temporal interests . 
These interests , disseminated in the provinces of so vast an empire , may be said to constitute rival nations rather than parties . 
In the absence of great parties , the United States abound with lesser controversies and public opinion is divided into a thousand minute shades of difference upon questions of very little moment . 
The pains which are taken to create parties are inconceivable , and at the present day it is no easy task . 
Nevertheless , ambitious men are interbsted in the creation of parties , since it is difficult to eject a person from authority upon the mere ground that his place is coveted by others . 
The skill of the actors in the political world lies therefore in the art of creating parties . 
When these preliminaries are terminated , the new party is ushered into the political world . 
To quote a recent example . 
When the President attacked the Bank , the country was excited and parties were formed the well informed classes rallied round the Bank , the common people round the President . 
But it must not be imagined that the people had formed a rational opinion upon a question which offers so many difficulties to the most experienced statesmen . 
The vanquished citizens despair of success and they conceal their dissatisfaction in silence and in general apathy . 
The nation seems to be governed by a single principle , and the prevailing party assumes the credit of having restored peace and unanimity to the country . 
But this apparent unanimity is merely a cloak to alarming dissensions and perpetual opposition . 
The wealthy members of the community abandon the lists , through unwillingness to contend , and frequently to contend in vain , against the poorest classes of their fellow citizens . 
Next to hating their enemies , men are most inclined to flatter them . 
Mark , for instance , that opulent citizen , who is as anxious as a Jew of the Middle Ages to conceal his wealth . 
No European noble is more exclusive in his pleasures , or more jealous of the smallest advantages which his privileged station confers upon him . 
But the very same individual crosses the city to reach a dark counting house in the centre of traffic , where every one may accost him who pleases . 
The populace is at once the object of their scorn and of their fears . 
The two chief weapons which parties use in order to ensure success are the public press and the formation of associations . 
Too much and too little has therefore hitherto been done . 
If you proceed , you must bring the delinquent before a court of permanent judges . 
Too much has still been done to recede , too little to attain your end you must therefore proceed . 
If you establish a censorship of the press , the tongue of the public speaker will still make itself heard , and you have only increased the mischief . 
You have been led from the extreme of independence to the extreme of subjection without meeting with a single tenable position for shelter or repose . 
There are certain nations which have peculiar reasons for cherishing the liberty of the press , independently of the general motives which I have just pointed out . 
In this case the liberty of the press is not merely a guarantee , but it is the only guarantee , of their liberty and their security which the citizens possess . 
But in the countries in which the doctrine of the sovereignty of the people ostensibly prevails , the censorship of the press is not only dangerous , but it is absurd . 
Not a single individual of the twelve millions who inhabit the territory of the United States has as yet dared to propose any restrictions to the liberty of the press . 
His conduct in the political arena has been that of a shameless and lawless gamester . 
The periodical press appears to me to be actuated by passions and propensities independent of the circumstances in which it is placed , and the present position of America corroborates this opinion . 
Its power is certainly much greater in France than in the United States though nothing is more rare in the latter country than to hear of a prosecution having been instituted against it . 
The reason of this is perfectly simple the Americans , having once admitted the doctrine of the sovereignty of the people , apply it with perfect consistency . 
A single glance upon a French and an American newspaper is sufficient to show the difference which exists between the two nations on this head . 
In France the press combines a twofold centralization almost all its power is centred in the same spot , and vested in the same hands , for its organs are far from numerous . 
The influence of a public press thus constituted , upon a sceptical nation , must be unbounded . 
It is an enemy with which a Government may sign an occasional truce , but which it is difficult to resist for any length of time . 
Neither of these kinds of centralization exists in America . 
The consequence of this is that nothing is easier than to set up a newspaper , and a small number of readers suffices to defray the expenses of the editor . 
The number of periodical and occasional publications which appears in the United States actually surpasses belief . 
In America there is scarcely a hamlet which has not its own newspaper . 
It may readily be imagined that neither discipline nor unity of design can be communicated to so multifarious a host , and each one is consequently led to fight under his own standard . 
All the political journals of the United States are indeed arrayed on the side of the administration or against it but they attack and defend in a thousand different ways . 
They cannot succeed in forming those great currents of opinion which overwhelm the most solid obstacles . 
This division of the influence of the press produces a variety of other consequences which are scarcely less remarkable . 
But such is the number of the public prints that , even if they were a source of wealth , writers of ability could not be found to direct them all . 
The journalists of the United States are usually placed in a very humble position , with a scanty education and a vulgar turn of mind . 
It cannot be denied that the effects of this extreme license of the press tend indirectly to the maintenance of public order . 
But although the press is limited to these resources , its influence in America is immense . 
It is the power which impels the circulation of political life through all the districts of that vast territory . 
Its eye is constantly open to detect the secret springs of political designs , and to summon the leaders of all parties to the bar of public opinion . 
In the United States each separate journal exercises but little authority , but the power of the periodical press is only second to that of the people . 
But the general principles of the Government are more stable , and the opinions most prevalent in society are generally more durable than in many other countries . 
When once the Americans have taken up an idea , whether it be well or ill founded , nothing is more difficult than to eradicate it from their minds . 
I attribute this consequence to a cause which may at first sight appear to have a very opposite tendency , namely , to the liberty of the press . 
The nations amongst which this liberty exists are as apt to cling to their opinions from pride as from conviction . 
Several other reasons conduce to the same end . 
It was remarked by a man of genius that ignorance lies at the two ends of knowledge . 
A man believes implicitly , because he adopts a proposition without inquiry . 
He doubts as soon as he is assailed by the objections which his inquiries may have aroused . 
c c It may , however , be doubted whether this rational and self guiding conviction arouses as much fervor or enthusiastic devotedness in men as their first dogmatical belief . 
The human mind continues to discern but one point upon the whole intellectual horizon , and that point is in continual motion . 
Such are the symptoms of sudden revolutions , and of the misfortunes which are sure to befall those generations which abruptly adopt the unconditional freedom of the press . 
The circle of novel ideas is , however , soon terminated the touch of experience is upon them , and the doubt and mistrust which their uncertainty produces become universal . 
We may rest assured that the majority of mankind will either believe they know not wherefore , or will not know what to believe . 
Few are the beings who can ever hope to attain to that state of rational and independent conviction which true knowledge can beget in defiance of the attacks of doubt . 
It has been remarked that in times of great religious fervor men sometimes change their religious opinions whereas in times of general scepticism everyone clings to his own persuasion . 
The same thing takes place in politics under the liberty of the press . 
It is not a question of easy solution whether aristocracy or democracy is most fit to govern a country . 
But it is certain that democracy annoys one part of the community , and that aristocracy oppresses another part . 
When the question is reduced to the simple expression of the struggle between poverty and wealth , the tendency of each side of the dispute becomes perfectly evident without further controversy . 
The same spirit pervades every act of social life . 
If the public pleasures are concerned , an association is formed to provide for the splendor and the regularity of the entertainment . 
I shall hereafter have occasion to show the effects of association upon the course of society , and I must confine myself for the present to the political world . 
When once the right of association is recognized , the citizens may employ it in several different ways . 
The right of association with these views is very analogous to the liberty of unlicensed writing but societies thus formed possess more authority than the press . 
When an opinion is represented by a society , it necessarily assumes a more exact and explicit form . 
It numbers its partisans , and compromises their welfare in its cause they , on the other hand , become acquainted with each other , and their zeal is increased by their number . 
An association unites the efforts of minds which have a tendency to diverge in one single channel , and urges them vigorously towards one single end which it points out . 
The second degree in the right of association is the power of meeting . 
When an association is allowed to establish centres of action at certain important points in the country , its activity is increased and its influence extended . 
Men have the opportunity of seeing each other means of execution are more readily combined , and opinions are maintained with a degree of warmth and energy which written language cannot approach . 
This is , properly speaking , the application of the representative system to a party . 
Lastly , in the third case , they constitute a separate nation in the midst of the nation , a government within the Government . 
There is doubtless a very wide difference between proving that one law is in itself better than another and proving that the former ought to be substituted for the latter . 
But the imagination of the populace is very apt to overlook this difference , which is so apparent to the minds of thinking men . 
It sometimes happens that a nation is divided into two nearly equal parties , each of which affects to represent the majority . 
A nation which is determined to remain free is therefore right in demanding the unrestrained exercise of this independence . 
But the unrestrained liberty of political association cannot be entirely assimilated to the liberty of the press . 
The one is at the same time less necessary and more dangerous than the other . 
A nation may confine it within certain limits without forfeiting any part of its self control and it may sometimes be obliged to do so in order to maintain its own authority . 
In America the liberty of association for political purposes is unbounded . 
An example will show in the clearest light to what an extent this privilege is tolerated . 
The majority of these individuals were well known , and some of them had earned a considerable degree of celebrity . 
South Carolina alone , which afterwards took up arms in the same cause , sent sixty three delegates . 
On October , , this assembly , which according to the American custom had taken the name of a Convention , met at Philadelphia it consisted of more than two hundred members . 
That the prohibition of free trade was prejudicial to the interests of all nations , and to that of the American people in particular . 
It must be acknowledged that the unrestrained liberty of political association has not hitherto produced , in the United States , those fatal consequences which might perhaps be expected from it elsewhere . 
At the present time the liberty of association is become a necessary guarantee against the tyranny of the majority . 
Thus a dangerous expedient is used to obviate a still more formidable danger . 
In aristocratic nations the body of the nobles and the more opulent part of the community are in themselves natural associations , which act as checks upon the abuses of power . 
It cannot be denied that the unrestrained liberty of association for political purposes is the privilege which a people is longest in learning how to exercise . 
If it does not throw the nation into anarchy , it perpetually augments the chances of that calamity . 
On one point , however , this perilous liberty offers a security against dangers of another kind in countries where associations are free , secret societies are unknown . 
In America there are numerous factions , but no conspiracies . 
Different ways in which the right of association is understood in Europeand in the United States Different use which is made of it . 
I am therefore led to conclude that the right of association is almost as inalienable as the right of personal liberty . 
No legislator can attack it without impairing the very foundations of society . 
The greater part of Europeans look upon an association as a weapon which is to be hastily fashioned , and immediately tried in the conflict . 
Resources which lie within the bounds of the law may suggest themselves to the persons who compose it as means , but never as the only means , of success . 
Such , however , is not the manner in which the right of association is understood in the United States . 
The difference which exists between the Americans and ourselves depends on several causes . 
When a party of this kind forms an association , its object is , not to conquer , but to fight . 
The exercise of the right of association becomes dangerous in proportion to the impossibility which excludes great parties from acquiring the majority . 
In a country like the United States , in which the differences of opinion are mere differences of hue , the right of association may remain unrestrained without evil consequences . 
The inexperience of many of the European nations in the enjoyment of liberty leads them only to look upon the liberty of association as a right of attacking the Government . 
The English , who are divided into parties which differ most essentially from each other , rarely abuse the right of association , because they have long been accustomed to exercise it . 
But perhaps the most powerful of the causes which tend to mitigate the excesses of political association in the United States is Universal Suffrage . 
In countries in which universal suffrage exists the majority is never doubtful , because neither party can pretend to represent that portion of the community which has not voted . 
The consequence of this is that the moral influence of the Government which they attack is very much increased , and their own power is very much enfeebled . 
In Europe there are few associations which do not affect to represent the majority , or which do not believe that they represent it . 
This conviction or this pretension tends to augment their force amazingly , and contributes no less to legalize their measures . 
Violence may seem to be excusable in defence of the cause of oppressed right . 
Thus it is , in the vast labyrinth of human laws , that extreme liberty sometimes corrects the abuses of license , and that extreme democracy obviates the dangers of democratic government . 
In Europe , associations consider themselves , in some degree , as the legislative and executive councils of the people , which is unable to speak for itself . 
In America , where they only represent a minority of the nation , they argue and they petition . 
The means which the associations of Europe employ are in accordance with the end which they propose to obtain . 
They centralize the direction of their resources as much as possible , and they intrust the power of the whole party to a very small number of leaders . 
Their moral force is much diminished by these excesses , and they lose the powerful interest which is always excited by a struggle between oppressors and the oppressed . 
The Americans have also established certain forms of government which are applied to their associations , but these are invariably borrowed from the forms of the civil administration . 
No one abjures the exercise of his reason and his free will but every one exerts that reason and that will for the benefit of a common undertaking . 
Such , however , is not the case in America there the people reigns without any obstacle , and it has no perils to dread and no injuries to avenge . 
I confess that the observations I made in America by no means coincide with these opinions . 
On my arrival in the United States I was surprised to find so much distinguished talent among the subjects , and so little among the heads of the Government . 
The race of American statesmen has evidently dwindled most remarkably in the course of the last fifty years . 
Several causes may be assigned to this phenomenon . 
It is impossible , notwithstanding the most strenuous exertions , to raise the intelligence of the people above a certain level . 
The greater or the lesser possibility of subsisting without labor is therefore the necessary boundary of intellectual improvement . 
Hence it often assents to the clamor of a mountebank who knows the secret of stimulating its tastes , while its truest friends frequently fail in their exertions . 
Democratic institutions awaken and foster a passion for equality which they can never entirely satisfy . 
It has been supposed that the secret instinct which leads the lower orders to remove their superiors as much as possible from the direction of public affairs is peculiar to France . 
It does not entertain any dread of distinguished talents , but it is rarely captivated by them and it awards its approbation very sparingly to such as have risen without the popular support . 
When a State is threatened by serious dangers , the people frequently succeeds in selecting the citizens who are the most able to save it . 
Extreme perils sometimes quench the energy of a people instead of stimulating it they excite without directing its passions , and instead of clearing they confuse its powers of perception . 
The Jews deluged the smoking ruins of their temple with the carnage of the remnant of their host . 
But it is more common , both in the case of nations and in that of individuals , to find extraordinary virtues arising from the very imminence of the danger . 
Great characters are then thrown into relief , as edifices which are concealed by the gloom of night are illuminated by the glare of a conflagration . 
Great names may then be drawn from the balloting box . 
I have already observed that the American statesmen of the present day are very inferior to those who stood at the head of affairs fifty years ago . 
This is as much a consequence of the circumstances as of the laws of the country . 
In this general excitement the most distinguished men were ready to forestall the wants of the community , and the people clung to them for support , and placed them at its head . 
But events of this magnitude are rare , and it is from an inspection of the ordinary course of affairs that our judgment must be formed . 
If passing occurrences sometimes act as checks upon the passions of democracy , the intelligence and the manners of the community exercise an influence which is not less powerful and far more permanent . 
This is extremely perceptible in the United States . 
In New England the education and the liberties of the communities were engendered by the moral and religious principles of their founders . 
The democracy in New England consequently makes a more judicious choice than it does elsewhere . 
There are certain laws of a democratic nature which contribute , nevertheless , to correct , in some measure , the dangerous tendencies of democracy . 
On entering the House of Representatives of Washington one is struck by the vulgar demeanor of that great assembly . 
The eye frequently does not discover a man of celebrity within its walls . 
In a country in which education is very general , it is said that the representatives of the people do not always know how to write correctly . 
At a few yards' distance from this spot is the door of the Senate , which contains within a small space a large proportion of the celebrated men of America . 
The whole body of the citizens names the legislature of each State , and the Federal Constitution converts these legislatures into so many electoral bodies , which return the members of the Senate . 
But this transmission of the popular authority through an assembly of chosen men operates an important change in it , by refining its discretion and improving the forms which it adopts . 
When elections recur at long intervals the State is exposed to violent agitation every time they take place . 
When elections occur frequently , their recurrence keeps society in a perpetual state of feverish excitement , and imparts a continual instability to public affairs . 
An extraordinary mutability has , by this means , been introduced into their legislation . 
Many of the Americans consider the instability of their laws as a necessary consequence of a system whose general results are beneficial . 
But no one in the United States affects to deny the fact of this instability , or to contend that it is not a great evil . 
And again in No. of the same work he observes The facility and excess of law making seem to be the diseases to which our governments are most liable . 
Jefferson himself , the greatest Democrat whom the democracy of America has yet produced , pointed out the same evils . 
The instability of our laws , said he in a letter to Madison , is really a very serious inconvenience . 
Public officers in the United States are commingled with the crowd of citizens they have neither palaces , nor guards , nor ceremonial costumes . 
This simple exterior of the persons in authority is connected not only with the peculiarities of the American character , but with the fundamental principles of that society . 
In the estimation of the democracy a government is not a benefit , but a necessary evil . 
A certain degree of power must be granted to public officers , for they would be of no use without it . 
But the ostensible semblance of authority is by no means indispensable to the conduct of affairs , and it is needlessly offensive to the susceptibility of the public . 
A public officer in the United States is uniformly civil , accessible to all the world , attentive to all requests , and obliging in his replies . 
I am inclined to believe that the influence which costumes really exercise , in an age like that in which we live , has been a good deal exaggerated . 
I never perceived that a public officer in America was the less respected whilst he was in the discharge of his duties because his own merit was set off by no adventitious signs . 
A democracy may , however , allow a certain show of magisterial pomp , and clothe its officers in silks and gold , without seriously compromising its principles . 
The substitution of paid for unpaid functionaries is of itself , in my opinion , sufficient to constitute a serious revolution . 
I look upon the entire absence of gratuitous functionaries in America as one of the most prominent signs of the absolute dominion which democracy exercises in that country . 
All public services , of whatsoever nature they may be , are paid so that every one has not merely the right , but also the means of performing them . 
Although , in democratic States , all the citizens are qualified to occupy stations in the Government , all are not tempted to try for them . 
The number and the capacities of the candidates are more apt to restrict the choice of electors than the coneitions of the candidateship . 
In nations in which the principle of election extends to every place in the State no political career can , properly speaking , be said to exist . 
Men are promoted as if by chance to the rank which they enjoy , and they are by no means sure of retaining it . 
The consequence is that in tranquil times public functions offer but few lures to ambition . 
In the United States the persons who engage in the perplexities of political life are individuals of very moderate pretensions . 
The vast number of very ordinary men who occupy public stations is quite as attributable to these causes as to the bad choice of the democracy . 
In two different kinds of government the magistrates a exercise a considerable degree of arbitrary power namely , under the absolute government of a single individual , and under that of a democracy . 
This identical result proceeds from causes which are nearly analogous . 
a I here use the word magistrates in the widest sense in which it can be taken I apply it to all the officers to whom the execution of the laws is intrusted . 
In despotic States the fortune of no citizen is secure and public officers are not more safe than private individuals . 
It may even be observed , on attentive consideration , that under the rule of a democracy the arbitrary power of the magistrate must be still greater than in despotic States . 
In the former the sovereign power is not only supreme , but it is universally present . 
The American functionaries are , in point of fact , much more independent in the sphere of action which the law traces out for them than any public officer in Europe . 
Very frequently the object which they are to accomplish is simply pointed out to them , and the choice of the means is left to their own discretion . 
b In France the lives and liberties of the subjects would be thought to be in danger if a public officer of any kind was entrusted with so formidable a right . 
In New England the same magistrates are empowered to post the names of habitual drunkards in public houses , and to prohibit the inhabitants of a town from supplying them with liquor . 
c A censorial power of this excessive kind would be revolting to the population of the most absolute monarchies here , however , it is submitted to without difficulty . 
b See the Act of February , . 
General Collection of the Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
It should be added that the jurors are afterwards drawn from these lists by lot . 
c See Act of February , . 
General Collection of the Laws of Massachusetts , vol . 
Nowhere has so much been left by the law to the arbitrary determination of the magistrate as in democratic republics , because this arbitrary power is unattended by any alarming consequences . 
It may even be asserted that the freedom of the magistrate increases as the elective franchise is extended , and as the duration of the time of office is shortened . 
Hence arises the great difficulty which attends the conversion of a democratic republic into a monarchy . 
The magistrate ceases to be elective , but he retains the rights and the habits of an elected officer , which lead directly to despotism . 
It is only in limited monarchies that the law , which prescribes the sphere in which public officers are to act , superintends all their measures . 
The cause of this may be easily detected . 
In limited monarchies the power is divided between the King and the people , both of whom are interested in the stability of the magistrate . 
The public administration is , so to speak , oral and traditionary . 
But little is committed to writing , and that little is wafted away forever , like the leaves of the Sibyl , by the smallest breeze . 
The only historical remains in the United States are the newspapers but if a number be wanting , the chain of time is broken , and the present is severed from the past . 
The instability of the administration has penetrated into the habits of the people it even appears to suit the general taste , and no one cares for what occurred before his time . 
No methodical system is pursued no archives are formed and no documents are brought together when it would be very easy to do so . 
Where they exist , little store is set upon them and I have amongst my papers several original public documents which were given to me in answer to some of my inquiries . 
In America society seems to live from hand to mouth , like an army in the field . 
This remark , indeed , is not exclusively applicable to the science of administration . 
Although a democratic government is founded upon a very simple and natural principle , it always presupposes the existence of a high degree of culture and enlightenment in society . 
d It is needless to observe that I speak here of the democratic form of government as applied to a people , not merely to a tribe . 
Before we can affirm whether a democratic form of government is economical or not , we must establish a suitable standard of comparison . 
The question would be one of easy solution if we were to attempt to draw a parallel between a democratic republic and an absolute monarchy . 
The public expenditure would be found to be more considerable under the former than under the latter such is the case with all free States compared to those which are not so . 
My present object is to compare free nations to each other , and to point out the influence of democracy upon the finances of a State . 
Communities , as well as organic bodies , are subject to certain fixed rules in their formation which they cannot evade . 
They are composed of certain elements which are common to them at all times and under all circumstances . 
The people may always be mentally divided into three distinct classes . 
The proportion of the individuals who are included in these three divisions may vary according to the condition of society , but the divisions themselves can never be obliterated . 
It is evident that each of these classes will exercise an influence peculiar to its own propensities upon the administration of the finances of the State . 
The government of the middle classes appears to me to be the most economical , though perhaps not the most enlightened , and certainly not the most generous , of free governments . 
In other words , the government of the democracy is the only one under which the power which lays on taxes escapes the payment of them . 
e The word poor is used here , and throughout the remainder of this chapter , in a relative , not in an absolute sense . 
Poor men in America would often appear rich in comparison with the poor of Europe but they may with propriety by styled poor in comparison with their more affluent countrymen . 
that the true interest of the people is indissolubly connected with that of the wealthier portion of the community , since it cannot but suffer by the severe measures to which it resorts . 
Universal suffrage does therefore , in point of fact , invest the poor with the government of society . 
On this account universal suffrage would be less dangerous in France than in England , because in the latter country the property on which taxes may be levied is vested in fewer hands . 
America , where the great majority of the citizens possess some fortune , is in a still more favorable position than France . 
There are still further causes which may increase the sum of public expenditure in democratic countries . 
They are not indeed callous to the sufferings of the poor , but they cannot feel those miseries as acutely as if they were themselves partakers of them . 
Provided that the people appear to submit to its lot , the rulers are satisfied , and they demand nothing further from the Government . 
An aristocracy is more intent upon the means of maintaining its influence than upon the means of improving its condition . 
When , on the contrary , the people is invested with the supreme authority , the perpetual sense of their own miseries impels the rulers of society to seek for perpetual ameliorations . 
Hence it arises that the public charges increase in proportion as civilization spreads , and that imposts are augmented as knowledge pervades the community . 
f f The gross receipts of the Treasury of the United States in were about , , in they had risen to , , . 
The gross expenditure in was , , in , , , . 
There is a powerful reason which usually induces democracies to economize upon the salaries of public officers . 
In aristocratic countries , on the contrary , the individuals who fix high salaries have almost always a vague hope of profiting by them . 
These appointments may be looked upon as a capital which they create for their own use , or at least as a resource for their children . 
It must , however , be allowed that a democratic State is most parsimonious towards its principal agents . 
In America the secondary officers are much better paid , and the dignitaries of the administration much worse , than they are elsewhere . 
The poor have no adequate conception of the wants which the higher classes of society may feel . 
Besides , the secondary public officer is almost on a level with the people , whilst the others are raised above it . 
The former may therefore excite his interest , but the latter begins to arouse his envy . 
The country is in the position of a commercial undertaking , which is obliged to sustain an expensive competition , notwithstanding its tastes for economy . 
h The State of Ohio , which contains a million of inhabitants , gives its Governor a salary of only , a year . 
I have added the salaries attached to the corresponding officers in France under the constitutional monarchy to complete the comparison . 
United States Treasury Department Messenger . 
, Clerk with highest salary . 
, France Ministere des Finances Hussier . 
Clerk with lowest salary , , to , fr . 
Clerk with highest salary , to , fr . 
I have perhaps done wrong in selecting France as my standard of comparison . 
Thus , the Minister of Finance , who received , fr . 
under the Empire , receives , fr . 
in the Directeurs generaux of Finance , who then received , fr . 
now receive only , fr . 
This comparison is based on the state of things existing in France and the United States in . 
It has since materially altered in both countries , but not so much as to impugn the truth of the author's observation . 
The reason of this fact is easily discoverable from causes very analogous to those to which I have just alluded . 
the fellow of the rich one but he is a being of another species . 
It is the parsimonious conduct of democracy towards its principal officers which has countenanced a supposition of far more economical propensities than any which it really possesses . 
j The money raised by taxation may be better employed , but it is not saved . 
In general , democracy gives largely to the community , and very sparingly to those who govern it . 
The reverse is the case in aristocratic countries , where the money of the State is expended to the profit of the persons who are at the head of affairs . 
j See the American budgets for the cost of indigent citizens and gratuitous instruction . 
In , were spent in the State of New York for the maintenance of the poor , and at least , , were devoted to gratuitous instruction . 
The State of New York contained only , , inhabitants in the year , which is not more than double the amount of population in the Department du Nord in France . 
One people is naturally inconsistent and enthusiastic another is sober and calculating and these characteristics originate in their physical constitution or in remote causes with which we are unacquainted . 
These are nations which are fond of parade and the bustle of festivity , and which do not regret the costly gaieties of an hour . 
Others , on the contrary , are attached to more retiring pleasures , and seem almost ashamed of appearing to be pleased . 
In some renown , in others money , is the ruling passion . 
Independently of the laws , all these causes concur to exercise a very powerful influence upon the conduct of the finances of the State . 
Whether The Expenditure Of The United States Can Be Compared To That Of France Two points to be established in order to estimate the extent of the public charges , viz . 
The same rate of taxation which may easily be supported by a wealthy contributor will reduce a poor one to extreme misery . 
The wealth of nations is composed of several distinct elements , of which population is the first , real property the second , and personal property the third . 
The first of these three elements may be discovered without difficulty . 
Amongst civilized nations it is easy to obtain an accurate census of the inhabitants but the two others cannot be determined with so much facility . 
But the reader will perceive that my task has not been facilitated by the limits which I here lay down for my researches . 
But this investigation , which no private individual can undertake , has not hitherto been completed by the French Government , or , at least , its results have not been made public . 
If we now turn to America , we shall perceive that the difficulties are multiplied and enhanced . 
k k The Americans , as we have seen , have four separate budgets , the Union , the States , the Counties , and the Townships having each severally their own . 
I possess , however , some documents relating to county expenses , which , although incomplete , are still curious . 
I have to thank Mr. Richards , Mayor of Philadelphia , for the budgets of thirteen of the counties of Pennsylvania , viz . 
, Lebanon , Centre , Franklin , Fayette , Montgomery , Luzerne , Dauphin , Butler , Alleghany , Columbia , Northampton , Northumberland , and Philadelphia , for the year . 
Their population at that time consisted of , inhabitants . 
This calculation is doubly incomplete , as it applies only to a single year and to one part of the public charges but it has at least the merit of not being conjectural . 
Independently of the natural difficulties of the task , the political organization of the country would act as a hindrance to the success of their efforts . 
The county and town magistrates are not appointed by the authorities of the State , and they are not subjected to their control . 
It may readily be shown that this second system is not at all less defective than the first . 
Municipal expenses exist in both countries , but they are not always analogous . 
In America the townships discharge a variety of offices which are reserved in France to the Departments or to the State . 
It may , moreover , be asked what is to be understood by the municipal expenses of America . 
The organization of the municipal bodies or townships differs in the several States . 
The same difficulty exists , perhaps to a greater degree at the present time , when the taxation of America has largely increased . 
m Even if we knew the exact pecuniary contributions of every French and American citizen to the coffers of the State , we should only come at a portion of the truth . 
Governments do not only demand supplies of money , but they call for personal services , which may be looked upon as equivalent to a given sum . 
Many other instances might be cited in addition to these . 
The French Government contracts certain obligations which do not exist in America , and vice versa . 
The French Government pays the clergy in America the voluntary principle prevails . 
In America there is a legal provision for the poor in France they are abandoned to the charity of the public . 
The French public officers are paid by a fixed salary in America they are allowed certain perquisites . 
Hence we must conclude that it is no less difficult to compare the social expenditure than it is to estimate the relative wealth of France and America . 
I will even add that it would be dangerous to attempt this comparison for when statistics are not based upon computations which are strictly accurate , they mislead instead of guiding aright . 
We abandon , therefore , our numerical investigation , with the hope of meeting with data of another kind . 
Nor , indeed , can the result be otherwise . 
A portion of the French debt is the consequence of two successive invasions and the Union has no similar calamity to fear . 
A nation placed upon the continent of Europe is obliged to maintain a large standing army the isolated position of the Union enables it to have only , soldiers . 
The French have a fleet of sail the Americans have vessels . 
n See the details in the Budget of the French Minister of Marine and for America , the National Calendar of , p . 
It is by examining what actually takes place in the Union , and not by comparing the Union with France , that we may discover whether the American Government is really economical . 
Whence I naturally infer that they must often spend the money of the people to no purpose , or consume more of it than is really necessary to their undertakings . 
The poor are maintained , immense sums are annually devoted to public instruction , all services whatsoever are remunerated , and the most subordinate agents are liberally paid . 
If this kind of government appears to me to be useful and rational , I am nevertheless constrained to admit that it is expensive . 
o o That is precisely what has since occurred . 
A distinction must be made , when the aristocratic and the democratic principles mutually inveigh against each other , as tending to facilitate corruption . 
In aristocratic governments the individuals who are placed at the head of affairs are rich men , who are solely desirous of power . 
In democracies statesmen are poor , and they have their fortunes to make . 
The consequence is that in aristocratic States the rulers are rarely accessible to corruption , and have very little craving for money whilst the reverse is the case in democratic nations . 
In democracies , on the contrary , those who are covetous of power are very seldom wealthy , and the number of citizens who confer that power is extremely great . 
But in France the practice of bribing electors is almost unknown , whilst it is notoriously and publicly carried on in England . 
If , then , the men who conduct the government of an aristocracy sometimes endeavor to corrupt the people , the heads of a democracy are themselves corrupt . 
In the former case the morality of the people is directly assailed in the latter an indirect influence is exercised upon the people which is still more to be dreaded . 
They thus afford an example which must prove discouraging to the struggles of virtuous independence , and must foster the secret calculations of a vicious ambition . 
The corruption of men who have casually risen to power has a coarse and vulgar infection in it which renders it contagious to the multitude . 
On the contrary , there is a kind of aristocratic refinement and an air of grandeur in the depravity of the great , which frequently prevent it from spreading abroad . 
But to pillage the public purse , and to vend the favors of the State , are arts which the meanest villain may comprehend , and hope to practice in his turn . 
In reality it is far less prejudicial to witness the immorality of the great than to witness that immorality which leads to greatness . 
To attribute his rise to his talents or his virtues is unpleasant for it is tacitly to acknowledge that they are themselves less virtuous and less talented than he was . 
to impute his success mainly to some one of his defects and an odious mixture is thus formed of the ideas of turpitude and power , unworthiness and success , utility and dishonor . 
I here warn the reader that I speak of a government which implicitly follows the real desires of a people , and not of a government which simply commands in its name . 
It is difficult to say what degree of exertion a democratic government may be capable of making a crisis in the history of the nation . 
But no great democratic republic has hitherto existed in the world . 
To style the oligarchy which ruled over France in by that name would be to offer an insult to the republican form of government . 
The United States afford the first example of the kind . 
The American Union has now subsisted for half a century , in the course of which time its existence has only once been attacked , namely , during the War of Independence . 
At the commencement of that long war , various occurrences took place which betokened an extraordinary zeal for the service of the country . 
p But as the contest was prolonged , symptoms of private egotism began to show themselves . 
, have in vain been multiplied new methods to enforce the collection have in vain been tried the public expectation has been uniformly disappointed and the treasuries of the States have remained empty . 
p One of the most singular of these occurrences was the resolution which the Americans took of temporarily abandoning the use of tea . 
Those who know that men usually cling more to their habits than to their life will doubtless admire this great though obscure sacrifice which was made by a whole people . 
The United States have not had any serious war to carry on ever since that period . 
In America the use of conscription is unknown , and men are induced to enlist by bounties . 
The notions and habits of the people of the United States are so opposed to compulsory enlistment that I do not imagine it can ever be sanctioned by the laws . 
But it is not easy to conceive how a people can sustain a great maritime war without having recourse to one or the other of these two systems . 
It is incontestable that in times of danger a free people displays far more energy than one which is not so . 
But I incline to believe that this is more especially the case in those free nations in which the democratic element preponderates . 
The reason is very evident it is enthusiasm which prompts men to expose themselves to dangers and privations , but they will not support them long without reflection . 
A portion of what we value is exposed , in order to save the remainder . 
But it is this distinct perception of the future , founded upon a sound judgment and an enlightened experience , which is most frequently wanting in democracies . 
Another cause tends to render the efforts of a democratic government less persevering than those of an aristocracy . 
The noble exposes his life , indeed , but the chance of glory is equal to the chance of harm . 
This relative impotence of democratic republics is , perhaps , the greatest obstacle to the foundation of a republic of this kind in Europe . 
In order that such a State should subsist in one country of the Old World , it would be necessary that similar institutions should be introduced into all the other nations . 
But it would have incurred the risk of being conquered much oftener than they would in that lapse of years . 
The deference of the Americans to the laws has been very justly applauded but it must be added that in America the legislation is made by the people and for the people . 
Consequently , in the United States the law favors those classes which are most interested in evading it elsewhere . 
It may therefore be supposed that an offensive law , which should not be acknowledged to be one of immediate utility , would either not be enacted or would not be obeyed . 
In America there is no law against fraudulent bankruptcies not because they are few , but because there are a great number of bankruptcies . 
In the new States of the Southwest the citizens generally take justice into their own hands , and murders are of very frequent occurrence . 
Whence I am to infer , replied I , that the drinking population constitutes the majority in your country , and that temperance is somewhat unpopular . 
But a democracy can only obtain truth as the result of experience , and many nations may forfeit their existence whilst they are awaiting the consequences of their errors . 
The great privilege of the Americans does not simply consist in their being more enlightened than other nations , but in their being able to repair the faults they may commit . 
To which it must be added , that a democracy cannot derive substantial benefit from past experience , unless it be arrived at a certain pitch of knowledge and civilization . 
Every European can perceive means which would rescue these unfortunate beings from inevitable destruction . 
They alone are insensible to the expedient they feel the woe which year after year heaps upon their heads , but they will perish to a man without accepting the remedy . 
It would be necessary to employ force to induce them to submit to the protection and the constraint of civilization . 
The inhabitants of that fair portion of the Western Hemisphere seem obstinately bent on pursuing the work of inward havoc . 
If they fall into a momentary repose from the effects of exhaustion , that repose prepares them for a fresh state of frenzy . 
It cannot therefore be asserted with truth that the external affairs of State are conducted by the democracy . 
r The President , says the Constitution , Art . 
, Section , shall have power , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate , to make treaties , provided two thirds of the senators present concur . 
The reader is reminded that the senators are returned for a term of six years , and that they are chosen by the legislature of each State . 
The policy of America owes its rise to Washington , and after him to Jefferson , who established those principles which it observes at the present day . 
So far as we have already formed engagements , let them be fulfilled with perfect good faith . 
Europe has a set of primary interests which to us have none , or a very remote relation . 
Hence , she must be engaged in frequent controversies , the causes of which are essentially foreign to our concerns . 
Our detached and distant situation invites and enables us to pursue a different course . 
I hold the maxim no less applicable to public than to private affairs , that honesty is always the best policy . 
I repeat it therefore , let those engagements be observed in their genuine sense but in my opinion it is unnecessary , and would be unwise , to extend them . 
Taking care always to keep ourselves , by suitable establishments , in a respectable defensive posture , we may safely trust to temporary alliances for extraordinary emergencies . 
It is a slave to its animosity or to its affection , either of which is sufficient to lead it astray from its duty and its interest . 
The political conduct of Washington was always guided by these maxims . 
These two principles , which were so plain and so just as to be adapted to the capacity of the populace , have greatly simplified the foreign policy of the United States . 
But such is not always the case in the mutual relations of foreign nations . 
Foreign politics demand scarcely any of those qualities which a democracy possesses and they require , on the contrary , the perfect use of almost all those faculties in which it is deficient . 
But a democracy is unable to regulate the details of an important undertaking , to persevere in a design , and to work out its execution in the presence of serious obstacles . 
It cannot combine its measures with secrecy , and it will not await their consequences with patience . 
These are qualities which more especially belong to an individual or to an aristocracy and they are precisely the means by which an individual people attains to a predominant position . 
If , on the contrary , we observe the natural defects of aristocracy , we shall find that their influence is comparatively innoxious in the direction of the external affairs of a State . 
The capital fault of which aristocratic bodies may be accused is that they are more apt to contrive their own advantage than that of the mass of the people . 
In foreign politics it is rare for the interest of the aristocracy to be in any way distinct from that of the people . 
The majority then reprobated the line of policy which he adopted , and which has since been unanimously approved by the nation . 
s See the fifth volume of Marshall's Life of Washington . 
In fact , in the session of Congress held at the time , it was frequently seen that Washington had lost the majority in the House of Representatives . 
The violence of the language used against him in public was extreme , and in a political meeting they did not scruple to compare him indirectly to the treacherous Arnold . 
Nor will this be a subject of wonder when we recollect that nothing in the world has so absolute a fixity of purpose as an aristocracy . 
The defects and the weaknesses of a democratic government may very readily be discovered they are demonstrated by the most flagrant instances , whilst its beneficial influence is less perceptibly exercised . 
A single glance suffices to detect its evil consequences , but its good qualities can only be discerned by long observation . 
This is , however , the sum total of its advantages . 
Aristocracies are infinitely more expert in the science of legislation than democracies ever can be . 
They are possessed of a self control which protects them from the errors of temporary excitement , and they form lasting designs which they mature with the assistance of favorable opportunities . 
Aristocratic government proceeds with the dexterity of art it understands how to make the collective force of all its laws converge at the same time to a given point . 
Such is not the case with democracies , whose laws are almost always ineffective or inopportune . 
An analogous observation may be made respecting public officers . 
In the second place , it must be remembered that if the democratic magistrate is more apt to misuse his power , he possesses it for a shorter period of time . 
But there is yet another reason which is still more general and conclusive . 
No political form has hitherto been discovered which is equally favorable to the prosperity and the development of all the classes into which society is divided . 
When the rich alone govern , the interest of the poor is always endangered and when the poor make the laws , that of the rich incurs very serious risks . 
But their interest is identified and confounded with that of the majority of their fellow citizens . 
The mal administration of a democratic magistrate is a mere isolated fact , which only occurs during the short period for which he is elected . 
Corruption and incapacity do not act as common interests , which may connect men permanently with one another . 
The ambition and the manoeuvres of the one will serve , on the contrary , to unmask the other . 
The vices of a magistrate , in democratic states , are usually peculiar to his own person . 
The aristocratic magistrate is therefore constantly supported by a portion of the community , as well as by the Government of which he is a member . 
In aristocratic governments public men may frequently do injuries which they do not intend , and in democratic states they produce advantages which they never thought of . 
There is one sort of patriotic attachment which principally arises from that instinctive , disinterested , and undefinable feeling which connects the affections of man with his birthplace . 
This patriotism is sometimes stimulated by religious enthusiasm , and then it is capable of making the most prodigious efforts . 
It is in itself a kind of religion it does not reason , but it acts from the impulse of faith and of sentiment . 
But , like all instinctive passions , this kind of patriotism is more apt to prompt transient exertion than to supply the motives of continuous endeavor . 
It may save the State in critical circumstances , but it will not unfrequently allow the nation to decline in the midst of peace . 
But there is another species of attachment to a country which is more rational than the one we have been describing . 
The country is lost to their senses , they can neither discover it under its own nor under borrowed features , and they entrench themselves within the dull precincts of a narrow egotism . 
I am certainly very far from averring that , in order to obtain this result , the exercise of political rights should be immediately granted to all the members of the community . 
It is unnecessary to study the institutions and the history of the Americans in order to discover the truth of this remark , for their manners render it sufficiently evident . 
The consequence is , that his national pride resorts to a thousand artifices , and to all the petty tricks of individual vanity . 
Nothing is more embarrassing in the ordinary intercourse of life than this irritable patriotism of the Americans . 
After the idea of virtue , I know no higher principle than that of right or , to speak more accurately , these two ideas are commingled in one . 
The idea of right is simply that of virtue introduced into the political world . 
It is the idea of right which enabled men to define anarchy and tyranny and which taught them to remain independent without arrogance , as well as to obey without servility . 
The principle which the child derives from the possession of his toys is taught to the man by the objects which he may call his own . 
The same thing occurs in the political world . 
Whilst in Europe the same classes sometimes recalcitrate even against the supreme power , the American submits without a murmur to the authority of the pettiest magistrate . 
This truth is exemplified by the most trivial details of national peculiarities . 
and the conduct of the people in these places of amusement has improved in the same proportion . 
I am not , however , inclined to exaggerate the example which America furnishes . 
In those States the people are invested with political rights at a time when they could scarcely be abused , for the citizens were few in number and simple in their manners . 
As they have increased , the Americans have not augmented the power of the democracy , but they have , if I may use the expression , extended its dominions . 
It cannot be doubted that the moment at which political rights are granted to a people that had before been without them is a very critical , though it be a necessary one . 
This truth may even be perceived in America . 
The States in which the citizens have enjoyed their rights longest are those in which they make the best use of them . 
It cannot be repeated too often that nothing is more fertile in prodigies than the art of being free but there is nothing more arduous than the apprenticeship of liberty . 
The nation is lulled by the temporary prosperity which accrues to it , until it is roused to a sense of its own misery . 
Liberty , on the contrary , is generally established in the midst of agitation , it is perfected by civil discord , and its benefits cannot be appreciated until it is already old . 
This popular origin , which impairs the excellence and the wisdom of legislation , contributes prodigiously to increase its power . 
The truth of this fact is very well known by parties , and they consequently strive to make out a majority whenever they can . 
Those who design to attack the laws must consequently either modify the opinion of the nation or trample upon its decision . 
In the United States , where the poor rule , the rich have always some reason to dread the abuses of their power . 
If this remark is applicable to those free countries in which monarchical and aristocratic institutions subsist , it is still more striking with regard to democratic republics . 
Societies are formed which regard drunkenness as the principal cause of the evils under which the State labors , and which solemnly bind themselves to give a constant example of temperance . 
It is impossible to spend more efforts in the pursuit of enjoyment . 
This feeling pervades the most trifling habits of life even the women frequently attend public meetings and listen to political harangues as a recreation after their household labors . 
Debating clubs are to a certain extent a substitute for theatrical entertainments an American cannot converse , but he can discuss and when he attempts to talk he falls into a dissertation . 
d The same remark was made at Rome under the first Caesars . 
Montesquieu somewhere alludes to the excessive despondency of certain Roman citizens who , after the excitement of political life , were all at once flung back into the stagnation of private life . 
This ceaseless agitation which democratic government has introduced into the political world influences all social intercourse . 
I am not sure that upon the whole this is not the greatest advantage of democracy . 
And I am much less inclined to applaud it for what it does than for what it causes to be done . 
He is canvassed by a multitude of applicants , who seek to deceive him in a thousand different ways , but who instruct him by their deceit . 
He takes a part in political undertakings which did not originate in his own conception , but which give him a taste for undertakings of the kind . 
New ameliorations are daily pointed out in the property which he holds in common with others , and this gives him the desire of improving that property which is more peculiarly his own . 
He is perhaps neither happier nor better than those who came before him , but he is better informed and more active . 
of the prodigious commercial activity of the inhabitants . 
It is not engendered by the laws , but the people learns how to promote it by the experience derived from legislation . 
If any deny what I advance , they have certainly never seen a democratic government , or have formed their opinion upon very partial evidence . 
It is true that even when local circumstances and the disposition of the people allow democratic institutions to subsist , they never display a regular and methodical system of government . 
Democratic liberty is far from accomplishing all the projects it undertakes , with the skill of an adroit despotism . 
Under its sway the transactions of the public administration are not nearly so important as what is done by private exertion . 
These are the true advantages of democracy . 
We must first understand what the purport of society and the aim of government is held to be . 
Most of the American Constitutions have sought to increase this natural strength of the majority by artificial means . 
a a We observed , in examining the Federal Constitution , that the efforts of the legislators of the Union had been diametrically opposed to the present tendency . 
The consequence has been that the Federal Government is more independent in its sphere than that of the States . 
The legislature is , of all political institutions , the one which is most easily swayed by the wishes of the majority . 
It is to a legislature thus constituted that almost all the authority of the government has been entrusted . 
But whilst the law increased the strength of those authorities which of themselves were strong , it enfeebled more and more those which were naturally weak . 
Custom , however , has done even more than law . 
With the exception of the tumult , this comes to the same thing as if the majority of the populace held its deliberations in the market place . 
Several other circumstances concur in rendering the power of the majority in America not only preponderant , but irresistible . 
that the King could do no wrong and if he did do wrong , the blame was imputed to his advisers . 
This notion was highly favorable to habits of obedience , and it enabled the subject to complain of the law without ceasing to love and honor the lawgiver . 
The Americans entertain the same opinion with respect to the majority . 
The moral power of the majority is founded upon yet another principle , which is , that the interests of the many are to be preferred to those of the few . 
It will readily be perceived that the respect here professed for the rights of the majority must naturally increase or diminish according to the state of parties . 
When a nation is divided into several irreconcilable factions , the privilege of the majority is often overlooked , because it is intolerable to comply with its demands . 
But as the United States were colonized by men holding equal rank amongst themselves , there is as yet no natural or permanent source of dissension between the interests of its different inhabitants . 
Thus , an aristocracy can never become a majority whilst it retains its exclusive privileges , and it cannot cede its privileges without ceasing to be an aristocracy . 
This state of things is fatal in itself and dangerous for the future . 
I have already spoken of the natural defects of democratic institutions , and they all of them increase at the exact ratio of the power of the majority . 
But this evil is more or less sensible in proportion to the authority and the means of action which the legislature possesses . 
In conformity with this principle , America is , at the present day , the country in the world where laws last the shortest time . 
As for the laws themselves , a single glance upon the archives of the different States of the Union suffices to convince one that in America the activity of the legislator never slackens . 
Not that the American democracy is naturally less stable than any other , but that it is allowed to follow its capricious propensities in the formation of the laws . 
In America certain ameliorations are undertaken with much more zeal and activity than elsewhere in Europe the same ends are promoted by much less social effort , more continuously applied . 
Some years ago several pious individuals undertook to ameliorate the condition of the prisons . 
The public was excited by the statements which they put forward , and the regeneration of criminals became a very popular undertaking . 
New prisons were built , and for the first time the idea of reforming as well as of punishing the delinquent formed a part of prison discipline . 
, the old prisons existed , which still contained a great number of offenders . 
These jails became more unwholesome and more corrupt in proportion as the new establishments were beautified and improved , forming a contrast which may readily be understood . 
The rights of every people are consequently confined within the limits of what is just . 
A nation may be considered in the light of a jury which is empowered to represent society at large , and to apply the great and general law of justice . 
But this language is that of a slave . 
A majority taken collectively may be regarded as a being whose opinions , and most frequently whose interests , are opposed to those of another being , which is styled a minority . 
c And for these reasons I can never willingly invest any number of my fellow creatures with that unlimited authority which I should refuse to any one of them . 
The form of government which is usually termed mixed has always appeared to me to be a mere chimera . 
, because in all communities some one principle of action may be discovered which preponderates over the others . 
However iniquitous or absurd the evil of which you complain may be , you must submit to it as well as you can . 
d d A striking instance of the excesses which may be occasioned by the despotism of the majority occurred at Baltimore in the year . 
At that time the war was very popular in Baltimore . 
A journal which had taken the other side of the question excited the indignation of the inhabitants by its opposition . 
The populace assembled , broke the printing presses , and attacked the houses of the newspaper editors . 
What ! then the blacks possess the right of voting in this county ? Without the smallest doubt . 
But in this case the majority entertains very strong prejudices against the blacks , and the magistrates are unable to protect them in the exercise of their legal privileges . 
Effects Of The Unlimited Power Of The Majority Upon The Arbitrary Authority Of The American Public Officers Liberty left by the American laws to public officers within a certain sphere Their power . 
A distinction must be drawn between tyranny and arbitrary power . 
Tyranny usually employs arbitrary means , but , if necessary , it can rule without them . 
In the United States the unbounded power of the majority , which is favorable to the legal despotism of the legislature , is likewise favorable to the arbitrary authority of the magistrate . 
In general the American functionaries are far more independent than the French civil officers within the sphere which is prescribed to them . 
By this means habits are formed in the heart of a free country which may some day prove fatal to its liberties . 
Intellectual principles exercise an influence which is so invisible , and often so inappreciable , that they baffle the toils of oppression . 
I know no country in which there is so little true independence of mind and freedom of discussion as in America . 
The aristocratic part of society supports him in some countries , and the democracy in others . 
Not that he is exposed to the terrors of an auto da fe , but he is tormented by the slights and persecutions of daily obloquy . 
His political career is closed forever , since he has offended the only authority which is able to promote his success . 
Every sort of compensation , even that of celebrity , is refused to him . 
He yields at length , oppressed by the daily efforts he has been making , and he subsides into silence , as if he was tormented by remorse for having spoken the truth . 
You will remain among men , but you will be deprived of the rights of mankind . 
Your fellow creatures will shun you like an impure being , and those who are most persuaded of your innocence will abandon you too , lest they should be shunned in their turn . 
Go in peace ! I have given you your life , but it is an existence in comparably worse than death . 
No writer , whatever be his eminence , can escape from this tribute of adulation to his fellow citizens . 
The majority lives in the perpetual practice of self applause , and there are certain truths which the Americans can only learn from strangers or from experience . 
The Inquisition has never been able to prevent a vast number of anti religious books from circulating in Spain . 
The empire of the majority succeeds much better in the United States , since it actually removes the wish of publishing them . 
Unbelievers are to be met with in America , but , to say the truth , there is no public organ of infidelity . 
Attempts have been made by some governments to protect the morality of nations by prohibiting licentious books . 
In these cases the advantages derived from the exercise of this power are unquestionable , and I am simply discussing the nature of the power itself . 
This irresistible authority is a constant fact , and its judicious exercise is an accidental occurrence . 
I am inclined to attribute the singular paucity of distinguished political characters to the ever increasing activity of the despotism of the majority in the United States . 
When the American Revolution broke out they arose in great numbers , for public opinion then served , not to tyrannize over , but to direct the exertions of individuals . 
In absolute governments the great nobles who are nearest to the throne flatter the passions of the sovereign , and voluntarily truckle to his caprices . 
But the mass of the nation does not degrade itself by servitude it often submits from weakness , from habit , or from ignorance , and sometimes from loyalty . 
Some nations have been known to sacrifice their own desires to those of the sovereign with pleasure and with pride , thus exhibiting a sort of independence in the very act of submission . 
These peoples are miserable , but they are not degraded . 
Not because men are naturally worse in these States than elsewhere , but the temptation is stronger , and of easier access at the same time . 
The result is a far more extensive debasement of the characters of citizens . 
It seems , at first sight , as if all the minds of the Americans were formed upon one model , so accurately do they correspond in their manner of judging . 
They are very ready to communicate truths which are useless to you , but they continue to hold a different language in public . 
I have heard of patriotism in the United States , and it is a virtue which may be found among the people , but never among the leaders of the people . 
This may be explained by analogy despotism debases the oppressed much more than the oppressor in absolute monarchies the king has often great virtues , but the courtiers are invariably servile . 
It is true that the American courtiers do not say Sire , or Your Majesty a distinction without a difference . 
It would have been impossible for the sycophants of Louis XIV to flatter more dexterously . 
For my part , I am persuaded that in all governments , whatever their nature may be , servility will cower to force , and adulation will cling to power . 
The only means of preventing men from degrading themselves is to invest no one with that unlimited authority which is the surest method of debasing them . 
Governments usually fall a sacrifice to impotence or to tyranny . 
In the former case their power escapes from them it is wrested from their grasp in the latter . 
Many observers , who have witnessed the anarchy of democratic States , have imagined that the government of those States was naturally weak and impotent . 
The truth is , that when once hostilities are begun between parties , the government loses its control over society . 
Anarchy is almost always produced by its tyranny or its mistakes , but not by its want of strength . 
It is important not to confound stability with force , or the greatness of a thing with its duration . 
In democratic republics , the power which directs e society is not stable for it often changes hands and assumes a new direction . 
But whichever way it turns , its force is almost irresistible . 
The Governments of the American republics appear to me to be as much centralized as those of the absolute monarchies of Europe , and more energetic than they are . 
I do not , therefore , imagine that they will perish from weakness . 
Anarchy will then be the result , but it will have been brought about by despotism . 
Mr. Hamilton expresses the same opinion in the Federalist , No. . 
Justice is the end of government . 
It is the end of civil society . 
It ever has been , and ever will be , pursued until it be obtained , or until liberty be lost in the pursuit . 
Jefferson has also thus expressed himself in a letter to Madison g The executive power in our Government is not the only , perhaps not even the principal , object of my solicitude . 
The tyranny of the Legislature is really the danger most to be feared , and will continue to be so for many years to come . 
The tyranny of the executive power will come in its turn , but at a more distant period . 
I am glad to cite the opinion of Jefferson upon this subject rather than that of another , because I consider him to be the most powerful advocate democracy has ever sent forth . 
I have already pointed out the distinction which is to be made between a centralized government and a centralized administration . 
The former exists in America , but the latter is nearly unknown there . 
But in the United States the majority , which so frequently displays the tastes and the propensities of a despot , is still destitute of the more perfect instruments of tyranny . 
In the American republics the activity of the central Government has never as yet been extended beyond a limited number of objects sufficiently prominent to call forth its attention . 
The secondary affairs of society have never been regulated by its authority , and nothing has hitherto betrayed its desire of interfering in them . 
The townships , municipal bodies , and counties may therefore be looked upon as concealed break waters , which check or part the tide of popular excitement . 
the puerilities of administrative tyranny . 
This effect seems to me to result from a general cause which it is useful to investigate , since it may produce analogous consequences elsewhere . 
The members of the legal profession have taken an important part in all the vicissitudes of political society in Europe during the last five hundred years . 
At one time they have been the instruments of those who were invested with political authority , and at another they have succeeded in converting political authorities into their instrument . 
In the Middle Ages they afforded a powerful support to the Crown , and since that period they have exerted themselves to the utmost to limit the royal prerogative . 
In England they have contracted a close alliance with the aristocracy in France they have proved to be the most dangerous enemies of that class . 
The special information which lawyers derive from their studies ensures them a separate station in society , and they constitute a sort of privileged body in the scale of intelligence . 
A portion of the tastes and of the habits of the aristocracy may consequently be discovered in the characters of men in the profession of the law . 
But it must then be inquired whether the cause which induces them to innovate and to destroy is accidental , or whether it belongs to some lasting purpose which they entertain . 
Five hundred years ago the English nobles headed the people , and spoke in its name at the present time the aristocracy supports the throne , and defends the royal prerogative . 
But aristocracy has , notwithstanding this , its peculiar instincts and propensities . 
We must be careful not to confound isolated members of a body with the body itself . 
In all free governments , of whatsoever form they may be , members of the legal profession will be found at the head of all parties . 
The same remark is also applicable to the aristocracy for almost all the democratic convulsions which have agitated the world have been directed by nobles . 
In a community in which lawyers are allowed to occupy , without opposition , that high station which naturally belongs to them , their general spirit will be eminently conservative and anti democratic . 
I am , in like manner , inclined to believe that a monarch will always be able to convert legal practitioners into the most serviceable instruments of his authority . 
Lawyers are attached to public order beyond every other consideration , and the best security of public order is authority . 
He would let slip the substance of authority to grasp at the shadow . 
If , then , they are led by their tastes to combine with the aristocracy and to support the Crown , they are naturally brought into contact with the people by their interests . 
They like the government of democracy , without participating in its propensities and without imitating its weaknesses whence they derive a twofold authority , from it and over it . 
The profession of the law is the only aristocratic element which can be amalgamated without violence with the natural elements of democracy , and which can be advantageously and permanently combined with them . 
This aristocratic character , which I hold to be common to the legal profession , is much more distinctly marked in the United States and in England than in any other country . 
In the mind of an English or American lawyer a taste and a reverence for what is old is almost always united to a love of regular and lawful proceedings . 
This predisposition has another effect upon the character of the legal profession and upon the general course of society . 
The English and American lawyers investigate what has been done the French advocate inquires what should have been done the former produce precedents , the latter reasons . 
The station which lawyers occupy in England and America exercises no less an influence upon their habits and their opinions . 
The English lawyers consequently mingle the taste and the ideas of the aristocratic circles in which they move with the aristocratic interests of their profession . 
The very individuals who conduct these changes disclaim all intention of innovation , and they had rather resort to absurd expedients than plead guilty to so great a crime . 
They have therefore nothing to gain by innovation , which adds a conservative interest to their natural taste for public order . 
In that country we perceive how eminently the legal profession is qualified by its powers , and even by its defects , to neutralize the vices which are inherent in popular government . 
The courts of justice are the most visible organs by which the legal profession is enabled to control the democracy . 
Armed with the power of declaring the laws to be unconstitutional , a the American magistrate perpetually interferes in political affairs . 
He cannot force the people to make laws , but at least he can oblige it not to disobey its own enactments or to act inconsistently with its own principles . 
By some other constitutions the members of the tribunals are elected , and they are even subjected to frequent re elections . 
on the Judicial Power in the United States . 
As the lawyers constitute the only enlightened class which the people does not mistrust , they are naturally called upon to occupy most of the public stations . 
They fill the legislative assemblies , and they conduct the administration they consequently exercise a powerful influence upon the formation of the law , and upon its execution . 
The influence of the legal habits which are common in America extends beyond the limits I have just pointed out . 
As most public men are , or have been , legal practitioners , they introduce the customs and technicalities of their profession into the affairs of the country . 
The jury extends this habitude to all classes . 
Trial by jury may be considered in two separate points of view , as a judicial and as a political institution . 
contributes to insure the best administration of justice , I admit that its utility might be contested . 
See the Digeste des Lois de la Louisiane , in two volumes and the Traite sur les Regles des Actions civiles , printed in French and English at New Orleans in . 
My present object is to consider the jury as a political institution , and any other course would divert me from my subject . 
Of trial by jury , considered as a judicial institution , I shall here say but very few words . 
c They have established it , or hastened to re establish it , in all their settlements . 
d c All the English and American jurists are unanimous upon this head . 
When judges are very numerous , death is perpetually thinning the ranks of the judicial functionaries , and laying places vacant for newcomers . 
This state of things is entirely contrary to the sound administration of justice , and to the intentions of the legislator . 
I turn , however , from this part of the subject . 
The jury is above all a political institution , and it must be regarded in this light in order to be duly appreciated . 
By the jury I mean a certain number of citizens chosen indiscriminately , and invested with a temporary right of judging . 
Force is never more than a transient element of success and after force comes the notion of right . 
A government which should only be able to crush its enemies upon a field of battle would very soon be destroyed . 
The true sanction of political laws is to be found in penal legislation , and if that sanction be wanting the law will sooner or later lose its cogency . 
He who punishes infractions of the law is therefore the real master of society . 
Now the institution of the jury raises the people itself , or at least a class of citizens , to the bench of judicial authority . 
The institution of the jury consequently invests the people , or that class of citizens , with the direction of society . 
e e An important remark must , however , be made . 
When an absolute monarch has the right of trying offences by his representatives , the fate of the prisoner is , as it were , decided beforehand . 
But even if the people were predisposed to convict , the composition and the non responsibility of the jury would still afford some chances favorable to the protection of innocence . 
In the United States the same system is applied to the whole people . 
Every American citizen is qualified to be an elector , a juror , and is eligible to office . 
These institutions are two instruments of equal power , which contribute to the supremacy of the majority . 
All the sovereigns who have chosen to govern by their own authority , and to direct society instead of obeying its directions , have destroyed or enfeebled the institution of the jury . 
The monarchs of the House of Tudor sent to prison jurors who refused to convict , and Napoleon caused them to be returned by his agents . 
f This may be true to some extent of special juries , but not of common juries . 
The author seems not to have been aware that the qualifications of jurors in England vary exceedingly . 
This appears to me to be the least part of the subject . 
This I hold to be the point of view most worthy of the attention of the legislator , and all that remains is merely accessory . 
I am so entirely convinced that the jury is pre eminently a political institution that I still consider it in this light when it is applied in civil causes . 
Laws are always unstable unless they are founded upon the manners of a nation manners are the only durable and resisting power in a people . 
This is true a fortiori when the jury is only applied to certain criminal causes . 
In whatever manner the jury be applied , it cannot fail to exercise a powerful influence upon the national character but this influence is prodigiously increased when it is introduced into civil causes . 
It imbues all classes with a respect for the thing judged , and with the notion of right . 
If these two elements be removed , the love of independence is reduced to a mere destructive passion . 
The jury teaches every man not to recoil before the responsibility of his own actions , and impresses him with that manly confidence without which political virtue cannot exist . 
By obliging men to turn their attention to affairs which are not exclusively their own , it rubs off that individual egotism which is the rust of society . 
The jury contributes most powerfully to form the judgement and to increase the natural intelligence of a people , and this is , in my opinion , its greatest advantage . 
I think that the practical intelligence and political good sense of the Americans are mainly attributable to the long use which they have made of the jury in civil causes . 
What I have hitherto said applies to all nations , but the remark I am now about to make is peculiar to the Americans and to democratic peoples . 
I have already observed that in democracies the members of the legal profession and the magistrates constitute the only aristocratic body which can check the irregularities of the people . 
Moreover , criminal causes are entirely founded upon the evidence of facts which common sense can readily appreciate upon this ground the judge and the jury are equal . 
Such , however , is not the case in civil causes then the judge appears as a disinterested arbiter between the conflicting passions of the parties . 
The jurors look up to him with confidence and listen to him with respect , for in this instance their intelligence is completely under the control of his learning . 
His influence upon their verdict is almost unlimited . 
The jury sanctions the decision of the judge , they by the authority of society which they represent , and he by that of reason and of law . 
h h See Appendix , R. In England and in America the judges exercise an influence upon criminal trials which the French judges have never possessed . 
the American judges have the right of deciding causes alone . 
i The Federal judges decide upon their own authority almost all the questions most important to the country . 
It is more especially by means of the jury in civil causes that the American magistrates imbue all classes of society with the spirit of their profession . 
Thus the jury , which is the most energetic means of making the people rule , is also the most efficacious means of teaching it to rule well . 
Several of the causes which contribute to maintain the institutions of America have been involuntarily passed by or only hinted at as I was borne along by my subject . 
Others I have been unable to discuss , and those on which I have dwelt most are , as it were , buried in the details of the former parts of this work . 
I think , therefore , that before I proceed to speak of the future , I cannot do better than collect within a small compass the reasons which best explain the present . 
The manners and customs of the people . 
A thousand circumstances , independent of the will of man , concur to facilitate the maintenance of a democratic republic in the United States . 
Some of these peculiarities are known , the others may easily be pointed out but I shall confine myself to the most prominent amongst them . 
It is impossible to deny the inconceivable influence which military glory exercises upon the spirit of a nation . 
, and the most prosaic of all the peoples of the earth . 
In cities men cannot be prevented from concerting together , and from awakening a mutual excitement which prompts sudden and passionate resolutions . 
a The United States have no metropolis , but they already contain several very large cities . 
Philadelphia reckoned , inhabitants and New York , in the year . 
The lower orders which inhabit these cities constitute a rabble even more formidable than the populace of European towns . 
They consist of freed blacks in the first place , who are condemned by the laws and by public opinion to a hereditary state of misery and degradation . 
The population of the city of New York had risen , in , to , , and that of Philadelphia to , . 
Brooklyn , which may be said to form part of New York city , has a population of , , in addition to that of New York . 
It would be easy for me to adduce a great number of secondary causes which have contributed to establish , and which concur to maintain , the democratic republic of the United States . 
But I discern two principal circumstances amongst these favorable elements , which I hasten to point out . 
The Americans had the chances of birth in their favor , and their forefathers imported that equality of conditions into the country whence the democratic republic has very naturally taken its rise . 
The chief circumstance which has favored the establishment and the maintenance of a democratic republic in the United States is the nature of the territory which the American inhabit . 
When the people rules , it must be rendered happy , or it will overturn the State , and misery is apt to stimulate it to those excesses to which ambition rouses kings . 
In the United States not only is legislation democratic , but nature herself favors the cause of the people . 
Even the moderns have found , in some parts of South America , vast regions inhabited by a people of inferior civilization , but which occupied and cultivated the soil . 
To found their new states it was necessary to extirpate or to subdue a numerous population , until civilization has been made to blush for their success . 
At that same period North America was discovered , as if it had been kept in reserve by the Deity , and had just risen from beneath the waters of the deluge . 
At this very time thirteen millions of civilized Europeans are peaceably spreading over those fertile plains , with whose resources and whose extent they are not yet themselves accurately acquainted . 
The desert cannot be explored without capital or credit and the body must be accustomed to the rigors of a new climate before it can be exposed to the chances of forest life . 
It is the Americans themselves who daily quit the spots which gave them birth to acquire extensive domains in a remote country . 
Thus the European leaves his cottage for the trans Atlantic shores and the American , who is born on that very coast , plunges in his turn into the wilds of Central America . 
This double emigration is incessant it begins in the remotest parts of Europe , it crosses the Atlantic Ocean , and it advances over the solitudes of the New World . 
Millions of men are marching at once towards the same horizon their language , their religion , their manners differ , their object is the same . 
The gifts of fortune are promised in the West , and to the West they bend their course . 
is stated to be , , . 
No event can be compared with this continuous removal of the human race , except perhaps those irruptions which preceded the fall of the Roman Empire . 
The future still conceals from us the ulterior consequences of this emigration of the Americans towards the West but we can readily apprehend its more immediate results . 
The former amasses the capital which the latter invests , and the stranger as well as the native is unacquainted with want . 
The laws of the United States are extremely favorable to the division of property but a cause which is more powerful than the laws prevents property from being divided to excess . 
But in Massachusetts estates are very rarely divided the eldest son takes the land , and the others go to seek their fortune in the desert . 
c In New England the estates are exceedingly small , but they are rarely subjected to further division . 
A single fact will suffice to show the prodigious number of individuals who leave New England , in this manner , to settle themselves in the wilds . 
We were assured in that thirty six of the members of Congress were born in the little State of Connecticut . 
The population of Connecticut , which constitutes only one forty third part of that of the United States , thus furnished one eighth of the whole body of representatives . 
The States of Connecticut , however , only sends five delegates to Congress and the thirty one others sit for the new Western States . 
These reflections do not escape the observation of the Americans any more than of ourselves . 
It is difficult to describe the rapacity with which the American rushes forward to secure the immense booty which fortune proffers to him . 
Before him lies a boundless continent , and he urges onwards as if time pressed , and he was afraid of finding no room for his exertions . 
These men left their first country to improve their condition they quit their resting place to ameliorate it still more fortune awaits them everywhere , but happiness they cannot attain . 
The desire of prosperity is become an ardent and restless passion in their minds which grows by what it gains . 
They early broke the ties which bound them to their natal earth , and they have contracted no fresh ones on their way . 
Sometimes the progress of man is so rapid that the desert reappears behind him . 
The woods stoop to give him a passage , and spring up again when he has passed . 
A small island , covered with woods whose thick foliage concealed its banks , rose from the centre of the waters . 
The whole island formed one of those delicious solitudes of the New World which almost lead civilized man to regret the haunts of the savage . 
A luxuriant vegetation bore witness to the incomparable fruitfulness of the soil . 
I then proceeded to examine the surrounding objects with care , and I soon perceived that a European had undoubtedly been led to seek a refuge in this retreat . 
Yet these are the very elements which ensure a long and peaceful duration to the republics of America . 
These circumstances exercise a great influence on the estimation in which human actions are held in the two hemispheres . 
The Americans frequently term what we should call cupidity a laudable industry and they blame as faint heartedness what we consider to be the virtue of moderate desires . 
But in America nothing seems to be more prejudicial to society than these virtues . 
In Canada , the most enlightened , patriotic , and humane inhabitants make extraordinary efforts to render the people dissatisfied with those simple enjoyments which still content it . 
At the present time America presents a field for human effort far more extensive than any sum of labor which can be applied to work it . 
In America too much knowledge cannot be diffused for all knowledge , whilst it may serve him who possesses it , turns also to the advantage of those who are without it . 
The American republics of the present day are like companies of adventurers formed to explore in common the waste lands of the New World , and busied in a flourishing trade . 
Most of the European emigrants to the New World carry with them that wild love of independence and of change which our calamities are so apt to engender . 
I sometimes met with Europeans in the United States who had been obliged to leave their own country on account of their political opinions . 
They all astonished me by the language they held , but one of them surprised me more than all the rest . 
He bade me sit down beside his fire , and we began to talk with that freedom which befits persons who meet in the backwoods , two thousand leagues from their native country . 
I was aware that my host had been a great leveller and an ardent demagogue forty years ago , and that his name was not unknown to fame . 
I listened , and marvelled at the feebleness of human reason . 
The influence of prosperity acts still more freely upon the American than upon strangers . 
If I have not succeeded in explaining this in the whole course of my work , I cannot hope to do so within the limits of a single chapter . 
It is not my intention to retrace the path I have already pursued , and a very few lines will suffice to recapitulate what I have previously explained . 
Three circumstances seem to me to contribute most powerfully to the maintenance of the democratic republic in the United States . 
The third is to be met with in the constitution of the judicial power . 
I have shown in what manner the courts of justice serve to repress the excesses of democracy , and how they check and direct the impulses of the majority without stopping its activity . 
I comprise , therefore , under this term the whole moral and intellectual condition of a people . 
My intention is not to draw a picture of American manners , but simply to point out such features of them as are favorable to the maintenance of political institutions . 
Every religion is to be found in juxtaposition to a political opinion which is connected with it by affinity . 
This sect contributed powerfully to the establishment of a democracy and a republic , and from the earliest settlement of the emigrants politics and religion contracted an alliance which has never been dissolved . 
d The Catholics are faithful to the observances of their religion they are fervent and zealous in the support and belief of their doctrines . 
affirmed that the whole Catholic population of the United States was then about , , , divided into dioceses , with , churches , under the care of bishops and , clergymen . 
But this rapid increase is mainly supported by immigration from the Catholic countries of Europe . 
I think that the Catholic religion has erroneously been looked upon as the natural enemy of democracy . 
Amongst the various sects of Christians , Catholicism seems to me , on the contrary , to be one of those which are most favorable to the equality of conditions . 
In the Catholic Church , the religious community is composed of only two elements , the priest and the people . 
The priest alone rises above the rank of his flock , and all below him are equal . 
Catholicism is like an absolute monarchy if the sovereign be removed , all the other classes of society are more equal than they are in republics . 
This religious influence has sometimes been used to secure the interests of that political state of things to which he belonged . 
At other times Catholics have taken the side of aristocracy from a spirit of religion . 
Most of the Catholics are poor , and they have no chance of taking a part in the government unless it be open to all the citizens . 
They constitute a minority , and all rights must be respected in order to insure to them the free exercise of their own privileges . 
These two causes induce them , unconsciously , to adopt political doctrines , which they would perhaps support with less zeal if they were rich and preponderant . 
The Catholic clergy of the United States has never attempted to oppose this political tendency , but it seeks rather to justify its results . 
Thus the Catholics of the United States are at the same time the most faithful believers and the most zealous citizens . 
It may be asserted that in the United States no religious doctrine displays the slightest hostility to democratic and republican institutions . 
The clergy of all the different sects hold the same language , their opinions are consonant to the laws , and the human intellect flows onwards in one sole current . 
I found two or three thousand persons collected in a vast hall which had been prepared to receive them . 
Thou , who didst create Man in the likeness of the same image , let not tyranny mar Thy work , and establish inequality upon the earth . 
Almighty God ! do Thou watch over the destiny of the Poles , and render them worthy to be free . 
Lord , turn not Thou Thy face from us , and grant that we may always be the most religious as well as the freest people of the earth . 
Almighty God , hear our supplications this day . 
Save the Poles , we beseech Thee , in the name of Thy well beloved Son , our Lord Jesus Christ , who died upon the cross for the salvation of men . 
The whole meeting responded Amen ! with devotion . 
The sects which exist in the United States are innumerable . 
They all differ in respect to the worship which is due from man to his Creator , but they all agree in respect to the duties which are due from man to man . 
Each sect adores the Deity in its own peculiar manner , but all the sects preach the same moral law in the name of God . 
If it be of the highest importance to man , as an individual , that his religion should be true , the case of society is not the same . 
Society has no future life to hope for or to fear and provided the citizens profess a religion , the peculiar tenets of that religion are of very little importance to its interests . 
Moreover , almost all the sects of the United States are comprised within the great unity of Christianity , and Christian morality is everywhere the same . 
It may be believed without unfairness that a certain number of Americans pursue a peculiar form of worship , from habit more than from conviction . 
They keep aloof from parties and from public affairs . 
I do not question that the great austerity of manners which is observable in the United States , arises , in the first instance , from religious faith . 
There is certainly no country in the world where the tie of marriage is so much respected as in America , or where conjugal happiness is more highly or worthily appreciated . 
In Europe almost all the disturbances of society arise from the irregularities of domestic life . 
To despise the natural bonds and legitimate pleasures of home , is to contract a taste for excesses , a restlessness of heart , and the evil of fluctuating desires . 
Agitated by the tumultuous passions which frequently disturb his dwelling , the European is galled by the obedience which the legislative powers of the State exact . 
But when the American retires from the turmoil of public life to the bosom of his family , he finds in it the image of order and of peace . 
Whilst the European endeavors to forget his domestic troubles by agitating society , the American derives from his own home that love of order which he afterwards carries with him into public affairs . 
In the United States the influence of religion is not confined to the manners , but it extends to the intelligence of the people . 
Before it can perpetrate innovation , certain primal and immutable principles are laid down , and the boldest conceptions of human device are subjected to certain forms which retard and stop their completion . 
The imagination of the Americans , even in its greatest flights , is circumspect and undecided its impulses are checked , and its works unfinished . 
These habits of restraint recur in political society , and are singularly favorable both to the tranquillity of the people and to the durability of the institutions it has established . 
Nature and circumstances concurred to make the inhabitants of the United States bold men , as is sufficiently attested by the enterprising spirit with which they seek for fortune . 
If the mind of the Americans were free from all trammels , they would very shortly become the most daring innovators and the most implacable disputants in the world . 
Thus whilst the law permits the Americans to do what they please , religion prevents them from conceiving , and forbids them to commit , what is rash or unjust . 
Indeed , it is in this same point of view that the inhabitants of the United States themselves look upon religious belief . 
This opinion is not peculiar to a class of citizens or to a party , but it belongs to the whole nation , and to every rank of society . 
, declared that he did not believe in the existence of God , or in the immortality of the soul . 
The judge refused to admit his evidence , on the ground that the witness had destroyed beforehand all the confidence of the Court in what he was about to say . 
e The newspapers related the fact without any further comment . 
a few days since rejected a witness who declared his disbelief in the existence of God . 
Thus religious zeal is perpetually stimulated in the United States by the duties of patriotism . 
It is , therefore , our interest that the new States should be religious , in order to maintain our liberties . 
When they return from their expedition , we shall hear what they have to say . 
When these men attack religious opinions , they obey the dictates of their passions to the prejudice of their interests . 
Despotism may govern without faith , but liberty cannot . 
The philosophers of the eighteenth century explained the gradual decay of religious faith in a very simple manner . 
Religious zeal , said they , must necessarily fail , the more generally liberty is established and knowledge diffused . 
Unfortunately , facts are by no means in accordance with their theory . 
My desire to discover the causes of this phenomenon increased from day to day . 
As a member of the Roman Catholic Church I was more particularly brought into contact with several of its priests , with whom I became intimately acquainted . 
This led me to examine more attentively than I had hitherto done , the station which the American clergy occupy in political society . 
In several States g the law excludes them from political life , public opinion in all . 
f Unless this term be applied to the functions which many of them fill in the schools . 
Almost all education is entrusted to the clergy . 
g See the Constitution of New York , art . 
See also the constitutions of North Carolina , art . 
Virginia South Carolina , art . 
I , Section Kentucky , art . 
, Section Tennessee , art . 
, Section I Louisiana , art . 
I perceived that these ministers of the gospel eschewed all parties with the anxiety attendant upon personal interest . 
The short space of threescore years can never content the imagination of man nor can the imperfect joys of this world satisfy his heart . 
Man alone , of all created beings , displays a natural contempt of existence , and yet a boundless desire to exist he scorns life , but he dreads annihilation . 
These different feelings incessantly urge his soul to the contemplation of a future state , and religion directs his musings thither . 
Religion , then , is simply another form of hope and it is no less natural to the human heart than hope itself . 
Thus , in forming an alliance with a political power , religion augments its authority over a few , and forfeits the hope of reigning over all . 
As long as a religion rests upon those sentiments which are the consolation of all affliction , it may attract the affections of mankind . 
The Church cannot share the temporal power of the State without being the object of a portion of that animosity which the latter excites . 
A law may modify the social condition which seems to be most fixed and determinate and with the social condition everything else must change . 
But when religion clings to the interests of the world , it becomes almost as fragile a thing as the powers of earth . 
The danger which I have just pointed out always exists , but it is not always equally visible . 
In some ages governments seem to be imperishable in others , the existence of society appears to be more precarious than the life of man . 
Some constitutions plunge the citizens into a lethargic somnolence , and others rouse them to feverish excitement . 
When governments appear to be so strong , and laws so stable , men do not perceive the dangers which may accrue from a union of Church and State . 
Agitation and mutability are inherent in the nature of democratic republics , just as stagnation and inertness are the law of absolute monarchies . 
In America , religion is perhaps less powerful than it has been at certain periods in the history of certain peoples but its influence is more lasting . 
On every side in Europe we hear voices complaining of the absence of religious faith , and inquiring the means of restoring to religion some remnant of its pristine authority . 
The two great dangers which threaten the existence of religions are schism and indifference . 
In ages of fervent devotion , men sometimes abandon their religion , but they only shake it off in order to adopt another . 
Their faith changes the objects to which it is directed , but it suffers no decline . 
Progidious revolutions then take place in the human mind , without the apparent co operation of the passions of man , and almost without his knowledge . 
Men lose the objects of their fondest hopes , as if through forgetfulness . 
But if the unbeliever does not admit religion to be true , he still considers it useful . 
Regarding religious institutions in a human point of view , he acknowledges their influence upon manners and legislation . 
He admits that they may serve to make men live in peace with one another , and to prepare them gently for the hour of death . 
On the other hand , those who continue to believe are not afraid openly to avow their faith . 
The mass of mankind , who are never without the feeling of religion , do not perceive anything at variance with the established faith . 
The instinctive desire of a future life brings the crowd about the altar , and opens the hearts of men to the precepts and consolations of religion . 
Amidst these lukewarm partisans and ardent antagonists a small number of believers exist , who are ready to brave all obstacles and to scorn all dangers in defence of their faith . 
They have done violence to human weakness , in order to rise superior to public opinion . 
As unbelief appears to them to be a novelty , they comprise all that is new in one indiscriminate animosity . 
They are at war with their age and country , and they look upon every opinion which is put forth there as the necessary enemy of the faith . 
I am intimately convinced that this extraordinary and incidental cause is the close connection of politics and religion . 
In Europe , Christianity has been intimately united to the powers of the earth . 
Those powers are now in decay , and it is , as it were , buried under their ruins . 
The living body of religion has been bound down to the dead corpse of superannuated polity cut but the bonds which restrain it , and that which is alive will rise once more . 
I have but little to add to what I have already said concerning the influence which the instruction and the habits of the Americans exercise upon the maintenance of their political institutions . 
America has hitherto produced very few writers of distinction it possesses no great historians , and not a single eminent poet . 
The spirit of the Americans is averse to general ideas and it does not seek theoretical discoveries . 
The Americans have lawyers and commentators , but no jurists h and they furnish examples rather than lessons to the world . 
The same observation applies to the mechanical arts . 
In America , the inventions of Europe are adopted with sagacity they are perfected , and adapted with admirable skill to the wants of the country . 
Manufactures exist , but the science of manufacture is not cultivated and they have good workmen , but very few inventors . 
Fulton was obliged to proffer his services to foreign nations for a long time before he was able to devote them to his own country . 
h This cannot be said with truth of the country of Kent , Story , and Wheaton . 
The observer who is desirous of forming an opinion on the state of instruction amongst the Anglo Americans must consider the same object from two different points of view . 
The whole population , as I observed in another place , is situated between these two extremes . 
but in the South no less than , , whites and , , colored persons are returned as illiterate . 
Such has not been the case in the United States . 
Education has taught them the utility of instruction , and has enabled them to transmit that instruction to their posterity . 
In the United States society has no infancy , but it is born in man's estate . 
As soon as the pioneer arrives upon the spot which is to serve him for a retreat , he fells a few trees and builds a loghouse . 
Nothing can offer a more miserable aspect than these isolated dwellings . 
Who would not suppose that this poor hut is the asylum of rudeness and ignorance ? Yet no sort of comparison can be drawn between the pioneer and the dwelling which shelters him . 
Everything about him is primitive and unformed , but he is himself the result of the labor and the experience of eighteen centuries . 
It is difficult to imagine the incredible rapidity with which public opinion circulates in the midst of these deserts . 
j I do not think that so much intellectual intercourse takes place in the most enlightened and populous districts of France . 
True information is mainly derived from experience and if the Americans had not been gradually accustomed to govern themselves , their book learning would not assist them much at the present day . 
j I travelled along a portion of the frontier of the United States in a sort of cart which was termed the mail . 
From time to time we came to a hut in the midst of the forest , which was a post office . 
When the author visited America the locomotive and the railroad were scarcely invented , and not yet introduced in the United States . 
It is superfluous to point out the immense effect of those inventions in extending civilization and developing the resources of that vast continent . 
In there were miles of railway in the United States in there were , miles of railway . 
k In each inhabitant of Michigan paid a sum equivalent to fr . 
to the post office revenue , and each inhabitant of the Floridas paid fr . 
In the same year each inhabitant of the Departement du Nord paid fr . 
to the revenue of the French post office . 
I have lived a great deal with the people in the United States , and I cannot express how much I admire their experience and their good sense . 
An American should never be allowed to speak of Europe for he will then probably display a vast deal of presumption and very foolish pride . 
He will take up with those crude and vague notions which are so useful to the ignorant all over the world . 
But if you question him respecting his own country , the cloud which dimmed his intelligence will immediately disperse his language will become as clear and as precise as his thoughts . 
He will inform you what his rights are , and by what means he exercises them he will be able to point out the customs which obtain in the political world . 
You will find that he is well acquainted with the rules of the administration , and that he is familiar with the mechanism of the laws . 
The American learns to know the laws by participating in the act of legislation and he takes a lesson in the forms of government from governing . 
The great work of society is ever going on beneath his eyes , and , as it were , under his hands . 
In the United States politics are the end and aim of education in Europe its principal object is to fit men for private life . 
The interference of the citizens in public affairs is too rare an occurrence for it to be anticipated beforehand . 
Upon casting a glance over society in the two hemispheres , these differences are indicated even by its external aspect . 
I have remarked that the maintenance of democratic institutions in the United States is attributable to the circumstances , the laws , and the manners of that country . 
l Most Europeans are only acquainted with the first of these three causes , and they are apt to give it a preponderating importance which it does not really possess . 
l I remind the reader of the general signification which I give to the word manners , namely , the moral and intellectual characteristics of social man taken collectively . 
Thus , as the condition of society was democratic , the empire of democracy was established without difficulty . 
But this circumstance is by no means peculiar to the United States almost all the trans Atlantic colonies were founded by men equal amongst themselves , or who became so by inhabiting them . 
In no one part of the New World have Europeans been able to create an aristocracy . 
Nevertheless , democratic institutions prosper nowhere but in the United States . 
The American Union has no enemies to contend with it stands in the wilds like an island in the ocean . 
But the Spaniards of South America were no less isolated by nature yet their position has not relieved them from the charge of standing armies . 
They make war upon each other when they have no foreign enemies to oppose and the Anglo American democracy is the only one which has hitherto been able to maintain itself in peace . 
m m A remark which , since the great Civil War of , ceases to be applicable . 
The territory of the Union presents a boundless field to human activity , and inexhaustible materials for industry and labor . 
The passion of wealth takes the place of ambition , and the warmth of faction is mitigated by a sense of prosperity . 
And although they might enjoy less prosperity than the inhabitants of the United States , their lot might still be such as to excite the envy of some nations in Europe . 
There are , however , no nations upon the face of the earth more miserable than those of South America . 
Physical causes do not , therefore , affect the destiny of nations so much as has been supposed . 
Nature offers the solitudes of the New World to Europeans but they are not always acquainted with the means of turning her gifts to account . 
Other peoples of America have the same physical conditions of prosperity as the Anglo Americans , but without their laws and their manners and these peoples are wretched . 
The laws and manners of the Anglo Americans are therefore that efficient cause of their greatness which is the object of my inquiry . 
The Federal laws undoubtedly constitute the most important part of the legislation of the United States . 
Mexico , which is not less fortunately situated than the Anglo American Union , has adopted the same laws , but is unable to accustom itself to the government of democracy . 
Some other cause is therefore at work , independently of those physical circumstances and peculiar laws which enable the democracy to rule in the United States . 
Another still more striking proof may be adduced . 
I am no longer comparing the Anglo American States to foreign nations but I am contrasting them with each other , and endeavoring to discover why they are so unlike . 
The arguments which are derived from the nature of the country and the difference of legislation are here all set aside . 
In the Eastern States the instruction and practical education of the people have been most perfected , and religion has been most thoroughly amalgamated with liberty . 
Now these habits , opinions , customs , and convictions are precisely the constituent elements of that which I have denominated manners . 
In the Western States , on the contrary , a portion of the same advantages is still wanting . 
Many of the Americans of the West were born in the woods , and they mix the ideas and the customs of savage life with the civilization of their parents . 
Their passions are more intense their religious morality less authoritative and their convictions less secure . 
The inhabitants exercise no sort of control over their fellow citizens , for they are scarcely acquainted with each other . 
Thus the effect which the geographical position of a country may have upon the duration of democratic institutions is exaggerated in Europe . 
Too much importance is attributed to legislation , too little to manners . 
The importance of manners is a common truth to which study and experience incessantly direct our attention . 
It may be regarded as a central point in the range of human observation , and the common termination of all inquiry . 
But there are no nations out of America which have adopted the same laws and manners , being destitute of the physical advantages peculiar to the Anglo Americans . 
No standard of comparison therefore exists , and we can only hazard an opinion upon this subject . 
It appears to me , in the first place , that a careful distinction must be made between the institutions of the United States and democratic institutions in general . 
But a democratic nation may be imagined , organized differently from the American people . 
But neither of these suppositions is borne out by facts . 
In America the same passions are to be met with as in Europe some originating in human nature , others in the democratic condition of society . 
Thus in the United States I found that restlessness of heart which is natural to men , when all ranks are nearly equal and the chances of elevation are the same to all . 
I found the democratic feeling of envy expressed under a thousand different forms . 
The Americans , then , have not relied upon the nature of their country to counterpoise those dangers which originate in their Constitution and in their political laws . 
The Americans , unquestionably , have not resolved this problem , but they furnish useful data to those who undertake the task . 
Importance Of What Precedes With Respect To The State Of Europe It may readily be discovered with what intention I undertook the foregoing inquiries . 
The question here discussed is interesting not only to the United States , but to the whole world it concerns , not a nation , but all mankind . 
But these individuals are ill acquainted with the haven towards which they are bound . 
They are so deluded by their recollections , as to judge the tendency of absolute power by what it was formerly , and not by what it might become at the present time . 
If absolute power were re established amongst the democratic nations of Europe , I am persuaded that it would assume a new form , and appear under features unknown to our forefathers . 
There was a time in Europe when the laws and the consent of the people had invested princes with almost unlimited authority but they scarcely ever availed themselves of it . 
The constitution of nations was despotic at that time , but their manners were free . 
Princes had the right , but they had neither the means nor the desire , of doing whatever they pleased . 
A mutual interchange of good will then takes place between the prince and the people , which resembles the gracious intercourse of domestic society . 
The subjects may murmur at the sovereign's decree , but they are grieved to displease him and the sovereign chastises his subjects with the light hand of parental affection . 
If he be weak , he is despised if he be strong , he is detested . 
He himself is full of animosity and alarm he finds that he is as a stranger in his own country , and he treats his subjects like conquered enemies . 
Whilst the nobles enjoyed their power , and indeed long after that power was lost , the honor of aristocracy conferred an extraordinary degree of force upon their personal opposition . 
If this support was wanting , he was sustained by his ancestors and animated by his posterity . 
n n This prediction of the return of France to imperial despotism , and of the true character of that despotic power , was written in , and realized to the letter in . 
And indeed it is deserving of consideration , whether men are to be entirely emancipated or entirely enslaved whether their rights are to be made equal , or wholly taken away from them . 
I grant that the caprices of democracy are perpetual its instruments are rude its laws imperfect . 
My aim has been to show , by the example of America , that laws , and especially manners , may exist which will allow a democratic people to remain free . 
I have shown , as far as I was able , the laws and the manners of the American democracy . 
Here I might stop but the reader would perhaps feel that I had not satisfied his expectations . 
The absolute supremacy of democracy is not all that we meet with in America the inhabitants of the New World may be considered from more than one point of view . 
These topics are collaterally connected with my subject without forming a part of it they are American without being democratic and to portray democracy has been my principal aim . 
It was therefore necessary to postpone these questions , which I now take up as the proper termination of my work . 
The territory now occupied or claimed by the American Union spreads from the shores of the Atlantic to those of the Pacific Ocean . 
On the east and west its limits are those of the continent itself . 
On the south it advances nearly to the tropic , and it extends upwards to the icy regions of the North . 
The human beings who are scattered over this space do not form , as in Europe , so many branches of the same stock . 
Three races , naturally distinct , and , I might almost say , hostile to each other , are discoverable amongst them at the first glance . 
These two unhappy races have nothing in common neither birth , nor features , nor language , nor habits . 
Their only resemblance lies in their misfortunes . 
Oppression has , at one stroke , deprived the descendants of the Africans of almost all the privileges of humanity . 
The negro has no family woman is merely the temporary companion of his pleasures , and his children are upon an equality with himself from the moment of their birth . 
The negro enters upon slavery as soon as he is born nay , he may have been purchased in the womb , and have begun his slavery before he began his existence . 
In short , he sinks to such a depth of wretchedness , that while servitude brutalizes , liberty destroys him . 
Oppression has been no less fatal to the Indian than to the negro race , but its effects are different . 
The Europeans , having dispersed the Indian tribes and driven them into the deserts , condemned them to a wandering life full of inexpressible sufferings . 
Savage nations are only controlled by opinion and by custom . 
The moral and physical condition of these tribes continually grew worse , and they became more barbarous as they became more wretched . 
To be free , with him , signifies to escape from all the shackles of society . 
As he delights in this barbarous independence , and would rather perish than sacrifice the least part of it , civilization has little power over him . 
Having been told from infancy that his race is naturally inferior to that of the whites , he assents to the proposition and is ashamed of his own nature . 
The Indian , on the contrary , has his imagination inflated with the pretended nobility of his origin , and lives and dies in the midst of these dreams of pride . 
For more than two hundred years the wandering tribes of North America have had daily intercourse with the whites , and they have never derived from them either a custom or an idea . 
Yet the Europeans have exercised a powerful influence over the savages they have made them more licentious , but not more European . 
On the evening of the battle of . 
, C. came and sat himself down by the fire of our bivouac . 
The servility of the one dooms him to slavery , the pride of the other to death . 
I remember that while I was travelling through the forests which still cover the State of Alabama , I arrived one day at the log house of a pioneer . 
The negress was clad in squalid European garments . 
I had often chanced to see individuals met together in the same place , who belonged to the three races of men which people North America . 
I had perceived from many different results the preponderance of the whites . 
None of the Indian tribes which formerly inhabited the territory of New England the Naragansetts , the Mohicans , the Pecots have any existence but in the recollection of man . 
Not only have these wild tribes receded , but they are destroyed b and as they give way or perish , an immense and increasing people fills their place . 
There is no instance upon record of so prodigious a growth , or so rapid a destruction the manner in which the latter change takes place is not difficult to describe . 
b In the thirteen original States there are only , Indians remaining . 
The decrease in now far greater , and is verging on extinction . 
See page of this volume . 
When the Indians were the sole inhabitants of the wilds from whence they have since been expelled , their wants were few . 
Hence the chase became necessary , not merely to provide for his subsistence , but in order to procure the only objects of barter which he could furnish to Europe . 
c Whilst the wants of the natives were thus increasing , their resources continued to diminish . 
Clarke and Cass , in their Report to Congress on February , , p . 
, expressed themselves thus The time when the Indians generally could supply themselves with food and clothing , without any of the articles of civilized life , has long since passed away . 
But the buffalo is constantly receding . 
The smaller animals , the bear , the deer , the beaver , the otter , the muskrat , etc . 
, principally minister to the comfort and support of the Indians and these cannot be taken without guns , ammunition , and traps . 
Among the Northwestern Indians particularly , the labor of supplying a family with food is excessive . 
Day after day is spent by the hunter without success , and during this interval his family must subsist upon bark or roots , or perish . 
Want and misery are around them and among them . 
Many die every winter from actual starvation . 
The Indians will not live as Europeans live , and yet they can neither subsist without them , nor exactly after the fashion of their fathers . 
This is demonstrated by a fact which I likewise give upon official authority . 
This measure had the desired effect . 
From the moment when a European settlement is formed in the neighborhood of the territory occupied by the Indians , the beasts of chase take the alarm . 
The buffalo is constantly receding , say Messrs . 
I have been assured that this effect of the approach of the whites is often felt at two hundred leagues' distance from their frontier . 
Their influence is thus exerted over tribes whose name is unknown to them and who suffer the evils of usurpation long before they are acquainted with the authors of their distress . 
, you could not cross a prairie without seeing herds of from four to five hundred buffaloes . 
There are now none remaining they swam across the Mississippi to escape from the hunters , and more particularly from the bells of the American cows . 
e The truth of what I here advance may be easily proved by consulting the tabular statement of Indian tribes inhabiting the United States and their territories . 
It is there shown that the tribes in the centre of America are rapidly decreasing , although the Europeans are still at a considerable distance from them . 
A few European families , settled in different situations at a considerable distance from each other , soon drive away the wild animals which remain between their places of abode . 
Their instinctive love of their country attaches them to the soil which gave them birth , f even after it has ceased to yield anything but misery and death . 
Clarke and Cass in their Report to Congress , p . 
'We will not sell the spot which contains the bones of our fathers , is almost always the first answer to a proposition for a sale . 
It is impossible to conceive the extent of the sufferings which attend these forced emigrations . 
They are undertaken by a people already exhausted and reduced and the countries to which the newcomers betake themselves are inhabited by other tribes which receive them with jealous hostility . 
Hunger is in the rear war awaits them , and misery besets them on all sides . 
Their nation has ceased to exist , except in the recollection of the antiquaries of America and a few of the learned of Europe . 
It was then the middle of winter , and the cold was unusually severe the snow had frozen hard upon the ground , and the river was drifting huge masses of ice . 
The Indians had their families with them and they brought in their train the wounded and sick , with children newly born , and old men upon the verge of death . 
They possessed neither tents nor wagons , but only their arms and some provisions . 
I saw them embark to pass the mighty river , and never will that solemn spectacle fade from my remembrance . 
No cry , no sob was heard amongst the assembled crowd all were silent . 
Their calamities were of ancient date , and they knew them to be irremediable . 
The Indians had all stepped into the bark which was to carry them across , but their dogs remained upon the bank . 
The ejectment of the Indians very often takes place at the present day , in a regular , and , as it were , a legal manner . 
What are they to do ? Half convinced , and half compelled , they go to inhabit new deserts , where the importunate whites will not let them remain ten years in tranquillity . 
In this manner do the Americans obtain , at a very low price , whole provinces , which the richest sovereigns of Europe could not purchase . 
, the narrative of what takes place on these occasions . 
This curious passage is from the above mentioned report , made to Congress by Messrs . 
Clarke and Cass in February , . 
Mr. Cass is now the Secretary of War . 
The Indians , says the report , reach the treaty ground poor and almost naked . 
Large quantities of goods are taken there by the traders , and are seen and examined by the Indians . 
The women and children become importunate to have their wants supplied , and their influence is soon exerted to induce a sale . 
Their improvidence is habitual and unconquerable . 
The gratification of his immediate wants and desires is the ruling passion of an Indian . 
The expectation of future advantages seldom produces much effect . 
The experience of the past is lost , and the prospects of the future disregarded . 
In the Osages gave up , , acres for an annual payment of , . 
In the Quapaws yielded up , , acres for , . 
They reserved for themselves a territory of , , acres for a hunting ground . 
A solemn oath was taken that it should be respected but before long it was invaded like the rest . 
Chapter XVIII Future Condition Of Three Races Part II These are great evils and it must be added that they appear to me to be irremediable . 
i The Indians had only the two alternatives of war or civilization in other words , they must either have destroyed the Europeans or become their equals . 
i This seems , indeed , to be the opinion of almost all American statesmen . 
At the first settlement of the colonies they might have found it possible , by uniting their forces , to deliver themselves from the small bodies of strangers who landed on their continent . 
It is easy to foresee that the Indians will never conform to civilization or that it will be too late , whenever they may be inclined to make the experiment . 
Of all nations , those submit to civilization with the most difficulty which habitually live by the chase . 
Civilization began in the cabin , but it soon retired to expire in the woods . 
But not only are they destitute of this indispensable preliminary to civilization , they would even have great difficulty in acquiring it . 
Men who have once abandoned themselves to the restless and adventurous life of the hunter , feel an insurmountable disgust for the constant and regular labor which tillage requires . 
We see this proved in the bosom of our own society but it is far more visible among peoples whose partiality for the chase is a part of their national character . 
k See the Histoire de la Nouvelle France , by Charlevoix , and the work entitled Lettres edifiantes . 
l l In all the tribes , says Volney , in his Tableau des Etats Unis , p . 
War and hunting are the only pursuits which appear to him worthy to be the occupations of a man . 
In their great war dances all the warriors in succession strike the post , as it is called , and recount their exploits . 
On these occasions their auditory consists of the kinsmen , friends , and comrades of the narrator . 
The profound impression which his discourse produces on them is manifested by the silent attention it receives , and by the loud shouts which hail its termination . 
In what we usually call the German institutions , then , I am inclined only to perceive barbarian habits and the opinions of savages in what we style feudal principles . 
However strongly the vices and prejudices of the North American Indians may be opposed to their becoming agricultural and civilized , necessity sometimes obliges them to it . 
The Indians who were thus placed between civilization and death , found themselves obliged to live by ignominious labor like the whites . 
They took to agriculture , and without entirely forsaking their old habits or manners , sacrificed only as much as was necessary to their existence . 
n These nations are now swallowed up in the States of Georgia , Tennessee , Alabama , and Mississippi . 
, the Choctaws , the Chickasaws , the Creeks , and the Cherokees . 
The remnants of these four nations amounted , in , to about , individuals . 
It is computed that there are now remaining in the territory occupied or claimed by the Anglo American Union about , Indians . 
The official documents supplied to Congress make the number amount to , . 
The reader who is curious to know the names and numerical strength of all the tribes which inhabit the Anglo American territory should consult the documents I refer to . 
In the Census of it is stated that the Indian population of the United States is only , , of whom , are in California . 
o o I brought back with me to France one or two copies of this singular publication . 
The growth of European habits has been remarkably accelerated among these Indians by the mixed race which has sprung up . 
p Deriving intelligence from their father's side , without entirely losing the savage customs of the mother , the half blood forms the natural link between civilization and barbarism . 
Wherever this race has multiplied the savage state has become modified , and a great change has taken place in the manners of the people . 
q p See in the Report of the Committee on Indian Affairs , st Congress , No. , p . 
, the reasons for the multiplication of Indians of mixed blood among the Cherokees . 
The principal cause dates from the War of Independence . 
Many Anglo Americans of Georgia , having taken the side of England , were obliged to retreat among the Indians , where they married . 
q Unhappily the mixed race has been less numerous and less influential in North America than in any other country . 
The American continent was peopled by two great nations of Europe , the French and the English . 
They became the most dangerous of the inhabitants of the desert , and won the friendship of the Indian by exaggerating his vices and his virtues . 
But there is every reason to suppose we have been mistaken . 
Thus while the French exercised no salutary influence over the Indians , the English have always remained alien from them . 
The success of the Cherokees proves that the Indians are capable of civilization , but it does not prove that they will succeed in it . 
This difficulty which the Indians find in submitting to civilization proceeds from the influence of a general cause , which it is almost impossible for them to escape . 
An attentive survey of history demonstrates that , in general , barbarous nations have raised themselves to civilization by degrees , and by their own efforts . 
Whenever they derive knowledge from a foreign people , they stood towards it in the relation of conquerors , and not of a conquered nation . 
The barbarians at length admit civilized man into their palaces , and he in turn opens his schools to the barbarians . 
But when the side on which the physical force lies , also possesses an intellectual preponderance , the conquered party seldom become civilized it retreats , or is destroyed . 
It may therefore be said , in a general way , that savages go forth in arms to seek knowledge , but that they do not receive it when it comes to them . 
If the Indian tribes which now inhabit the heart of the continent could summon up energy enough to attempt to civilize themselves , they might possibly succeed . 
the most avaricious nation on the globe , whilst they are still semi barbarian to find despots in their instructors , and to receive knowledge from the hand of oppression . 
r There is in the adventurous life of the hunter a certain irresistible charm , which seizes the heart of man and carries him away in spite of reason and experience . 
This is plainly shown by the memoirs of Tanner . 
Tanner is a European who was carried away at the age of six by the Indians , and has remained thirty years with them in the woods . 
Nothing can be conceived more appalling that the miseries which he describes . 
Hunger and cold pursue them every day their life is in jeopardy . 
Amongst these men , manners have lost their empire , traditions are without power . 
They become more and more savage . 
I saw Tanner myself at the lower end of Lake Superior he seemed to me to be more like a savage than a civilized being . 
When the Indians undertake to imitate their European neighbors , and to till the earth like the settlers , they are immediately exposed to a very formidable competition . 
The white man is skilled in the craft of agriculture the Indian is a rough beginner in an art with which he is unacquainted . 
The former reaps abundant crops without difficulty , the latter meets with a thousand obstacles in raising the fruits of the earth . 
The European is placed amongst a population whose wants he knows and partakes . 
The savage is isolated in the midst of a hostile people , with whose manners , language , and laws he is imperfectly acquainted , but without whose assistance he cannot live . 
He can only procure the materials of comfort by bartering his commodities against the goods of the European , for the assistance of his countrymen is wholly insufficient to supply his wants . 
He has not yet lost the habits of his erratic life the traditions of his fathers and his passion for the chase are still alive within him . 
The wild enjoyments which formerly animated him in the woods , painfully excite his troubled imagination and his former privations appear to be less keen , his former perils less appalling . 
He contrasts the independence which he possessed amongst his equals with the servile position which he occupies in civilized society . 
On the other hand , the solitudes which were so long his free home are still at hand a few hours' march will bring him back to them once more . 
The whites offer him a sum , which seems to him to be considerable , for the ground which he has begun to clear . 
s The condition of the Creeks and Cherokees , to which I have already alluded , sufficiently corroborates the truth of this deplorable picture . 
s The destructive influence of highly civilized nations upon others which are less so , has been exemplified by the Europeans themselves . 
These French settlers were worthy people , but idle and uninstructed they had contracted many of the habits of savages . 
In like manner , in Louisiana , almost all activity in commerce and manufacture centres in the hands of the Anglo Americans . 
But the case of Texas is still more striking the State of Texas is a part of Mexico , and lies upon the frontier between that country and the United States . 
It may easily be foreseen that if Mexico takes no steps to check this change , the province of Texas will very shortly cease to belong to that government . 
The Indian is already superior to his barbarous parent , but he is still very far below his white neighbor . 
They were isolated in their own country , and their race only constituted a colony of troublesome aliens in the midst of a numerous and domineering people . 
It appears , nevertheless , from all these documents that the claims of the natives are constantly protected by the government from the abuse of force . 
The intrusion of whites , he says , upon the lands of the Cherokees would cause ruin to the poor , helpless , and inoffensive inhabitants . 
But this virtuous and high minded policy has not been followed . 
The rapacity of the settlers is usually backed by the tyranny of the government . 
u In the State of Alabama divided the Creek territory into counties , and subjected the Indian population to the power of European magistrates . 
v The Georgians , who are so much annoyed by the proximity of the Indians , inhabit a territory which does not at present contain more than seven inhabitants to the square mile . 
In France there are one hundred and sixty two inhabitants to the same extent of country . 
w In Congress appointed commissioners to visit the Arkansas Territory , accompanied by a deputation of Creeks , Choctaws , and Chickasaws . 
This expedition was commanded by Messrs . 
Kennerly , M'Coy , Wash Hood , and John Bell . 
See the different reports of the commissioners , and their journal , in the Documents of Congress , No. , House of Representatives . 
It is bounded on the one side by the confines of Mexico , on the other by the Mississippi . 
Numberless streams cross it in every direction the climate is mild , and the soil productive , but it is only inhabited by a few wandering hordes of savages . 
Moreover , the Indians readily discover that the settlement which is proposed to them is merely a temporary expedient . 
x The American government does not indeed rob them of their lands , but it allows perpetual incursions to be made on them . 
The seventh article of the treaty concluded in with the Cherokees says The United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee nation all their lands not hereby ceded . 
The Union treats the Indians with less cupidity and rigor than the policy of the several States , but the two governments are alike destitute of good faith . 
y y This does not prevent them from promising in the most solemn manner to do so . 
It will be yours forever . 
They met in peace , and shook hands in token of friendship . 
Whatever the white man wanted and asked of the Indian , the latter willingly gave . 
At that time the Indian was the lord , and the white man the suppliant . 
But now the scene has changed . 
The strength of the red man has become weakness . 
The northern tribes , who were once so numerous and powerful , are now nearly extinct . 
Thus it has happened to the red man of America . 
d , The Laws of the Union on the same subject , and especially that of March , . 
d , The Report of Mr. Cass , Secretary of War , relative to Indian Affairs , November , . 
The land on which we stand we have received as an inheritance from our fathers , who possessed it from time immemorial , as a gift from our common Father in Heaven . 
They bequeathed it to us as their children , and we have sacredly kept it , as containing the remains of our beloved men . 
This right of inheritance we have never ceded nor ever forfeited . 
But it was not thought of , nor would our forefathers have agreed to any treaty whose tendency was to deprive them of their rights and their country . 
Such is the language of the Indians their assertions are true , their forebodings inevitable . 
b The conduct of the Americans of the United States towards the aborigines is characterized , on the other hand , by a singular attachment to the formalities of law . 
b The honor of this result is , however , by no means due to the Spaniards . 
c It is impossible to destroy men with more respect for the laws of humanity . 
I leave this chapter wholly unchanged , for it has always appeared to me to be one of the most eloquent and touching parts of this book . 
But it has ceased to be prophetic the destruction of the Indian race in the United States is already consummated . 
In New England , Pennsylvania , and New York the race is extinct and the predictions of M. de Tocqueville are fulfilled . 
The Indians will perish in the same isolated condition in which they have lived but the destiny of the negroes is in some measure interwoven with that of the Europeans . 
These two races are attached to each other without intermingling , and they are alike unable entirely to separate or to combine . 
I need scarcely add that this calamity is slavery . 
It is important to make an accurate distinction between slavery itself and its consequences . 
The immediate evils which are produced by slavery were very nearly the same in antiquity as they are amongst the moderns but the consequences of these evils were different . 
The slave , amongst the ancients , belonged to the same race as his master , and he was often the superior of the two in education d and instruction . 
Freedom was the only distinction between them and when freedom was conferred they were easily confounded together . 
Not but , in ancient States , the vestiges of servitude subsisted for some time after servitude itself was abolished . 
d It is well known that several of the most distinguished authors of antiquity , and amongst them Aesop and Terence , were , or had been slaves . 
Slaves were not always taken from barbarous nations , and the chances of war reduced highly civilized men to servitude . 
This arises from the circumstance that , amongst the moderns , the abstract and transient fact of slavery is fatally united to the physical and permanent fact of color . 
The tradition of slavery dishonors the race , and the peculiarity of the race perpetuates the tradition of slavery . 
Thus the negro transmits the eternal mark of his ignominy to all his descendants and although the law may abolish slavery , God alone can obliterate the traces of its existence . 
The modern slave differs from his master not only in his condition , but in his origin . 
You may set the negro free , but you cannot make him otherwise than an alien to the European . 
Nor is this all we scarcely acknowledge the common features of mankind in this child of debasement whom slavery has brought amongst us . 
His physiognomy is to our eyes hideous , his understanding weak , his tastes low and we are almost inclined to look upon him as a being intermediate between man and the brutes . 
But we may derive some faint notion of them from analogy . 
France was formerly a country in which numerous distinctions of rank existed , that had been created by the legislation . 
Nothing can be more fictitious than a purely legal inferiority nothing more contrary to the instinct of mankind than these permanent divisions which had been established between beings evidently similar . 
Nevertheless these divisions subsisted for ages they still subsist in many places and on all sides they have left imaginary vestiges , which time alone can efface . 
The electoral franchise has been conferred upon the negroes in almost all the States in which slavery has been abolished but if they come forward to vote , their lives are in danger . 
The same schools do not receive the child of the black and of the European . 
In the South the master is not afraid to raise his slave to his own standing , because he knows that he can in a moment reduce him to the dust at pleasure . 
It is not for the good of the negroes , but for that of the whites , that measures are taken to abolish slavery in the United States . 
The first negroes were imported into Virginia about the year . 
f In America , therefore , as well as in the rest of the globe , slavery originated in the South . 
Thence it spread from one settlement to another but the number of slaves diminished towards the Northern States , and the negro population was always very limited in New England . 
g f See Beverley's History of Virginia . 
See also in Jefferson's Memoirs some curious details concerning the introduction of negroes into Virginia , and the first Act which prohibited the importation of them in . 
g The number of slaves was less considerable in the North , but the advantages resulting from slavery were not more contested there than in the South . 
Curious researches , by Belknap , upon slavery in New England , are to be found in the Historical Collection of Massachusetts , vol . 
The more progress was made , the more was it shown that slavery , which is so cruel to the slave , is prejudicial to the master . 
Chapter XVIII Future Condition Of Three Races Part IV But this truth was most satisfactorily demonstrated when civilization reached the banks of the Ohio . 
The stream which the Indians had distinguished by the name of Ohio , or Beautiful River , waters one of the most magnificent valleys that has ever been made the abode of man . 
These two States only differ in a single respect Kentucky has admitted slavery , but the State of Ohio has prohibited the existence of slaves within its borders . 
h h Not only is slavery prohibited in Ohio , but no free negroes are allowed to enter the territory of that State , or to hold property in it . 
See the Statutes of Ohio . 
j The exact numbers given by the census of were Kentucky , , Ohio , , . 
In the population of Ohio was , , , that of Kentucky , , , . 
The free workman is paid , but he does his work quicker than the slave , and rapidity of execution is one of the great elements of economy . 
The influence of slavery extends still further it affects the character of the master , and imparts a peculiar tendency to his ideas and his tastes . 
Upon both banks of the Ohio , the character of the inhabitants is enterprising and energetic but this vigor is very differently exercised in the two States . 
Thus slavery not only prevents the whites from becoming opulent , but even from desiring to become so . 
At the present day it is only the Northern States which are in possession of shipping , manufactures , railroads , and canals . 
This difference is perceptible not only in comparing the North with the South , but in comparing the several Southern States . 
Almost all the individuals who carry on commercial operations , or who endeavor to turn slave labor to account in the most Southern districts of the Union , have emigrated from the North . 
As these truths became apparent in the United States , slavery receded before the progress of experience . 
Servitude had begun in the South , and had thence spread towards the North but it now retires again . 
Freedom , which started from the North , now descends uninterruptedly towards the South . 
l l A peculiar reason contributes to detach the two last mentioned States from the cause of slavery . 
The former wealth of this part of the Union was principally derived from the cultivation of tobacco . 
This cultivation is specially carried on by slaves but within the last few years the market price of tobacco has diminished , whilst the value of the slaves remains the same . 
Thus the ratio between the cost of production and the value of the produce is changed . 
No great change takes place in human institutions without involving amongst its causes the law of inheritance . 
This identical result seems to be produced in Europe and in America by wholly analogous causes . 
These leaders of the American nobility kept alive the traditional prejudices of the white race in the body of which they were the representatives , and maintained the honor of inactive life . 
Thus one of the most immediate consequences of the partible quality of estates has been to create a class of free laborers . 
As slavery recedes , the black population follows its retrograde course , and returns with it towards those tropical regions from which it originally came . 
However singular this fact may at first appear to be , it may readily be explained . 
Although the Americans abolish the principle of slavery , they do not set their slaves free . 
To illustrate this remark , I will quote the example of the State of New York . 
In , the State of New York prohibited the sale of slaves within its limits , which was an indirect method of prohibiting the importation of blacks . 
Thenceforward the number of negroes could only increase according to the ratio of the natural increase of population . 
But eight years later a more decisive measure was taken , and it was enacted that all children born of slave parents after July , , should be free . 
No increase could then take place , and although slaves still existed , slavery might be said to be abolished . 
From the time at which a Northern State prohibited the importation of slaves , no slaves were brought from the South to be sold in its markets . 
otherwise than by transporting him to the South . 
Thus the same law prevents the slaves of the South from coming to the Northern States , and drives those of the North to the South . 
The want of free hands is felt in a State in proportion as the number of slaves decreases . 
Thus the abolition of slavery does not set the slave free , but it merely transfers him from one master to another , and from the North to the South . 
The mortality is by no means so great amongst the negroes who are still slaves . 
The soil is soon divided amongst them , and a family of white settlers takes possession of each tract of country . 
The proportion which existed between the two races is soon inverted . 
In several of the Western States the negro race never made its appearance , and in all the Northern States it is rapidly declining . 
Thus the great question of its future condition is confined within a narrow circle , where it becomes less formidable , though not more easy of solution . 
The more we descend towards the South , the more difficult does it become to abolish slavery with advantage and this arises from several physical causes which it is important to point out . 
The first of these causes is the climate it is well known that in proportion as Europeans approach the tropics they suffer more from labor . 
As the free workman thus loses a portion of his superiority over the slave in the Southern States , there are fewer inducements to abolish slavery . 
The Spanish Government formerly caused a certain number of peasants from the Acores to be transported into a district of Louisiana called Attakapas , by way of experiment . 
These settlers still cultivate the soil without the assistance of slaves , but their industry is so languid as scarcely to supply their most necessary wants . 
All the plants of Europe grow in the northern parts of the Union the South has special productions of its own . 
It has been observed that slave labor is a very expensive method of cultivating corn . 
Slavery , independently of its general disadvantages , is therefore still more inapplicable to countries in which corn is cultivated than to those which produce crops of a different kind . 
Thus slavery is naturally more fitted to the countries from which these productions are derived . 
Tobacco , cotton , and the sugar cane are exclusively grown in the South , and they form one of the principal sources of the wealth of those States . 
Thus , peculiar reasons for maintaining slavery exist in the South which do not operate in the North . 
It was to the southern settlements that the first Africans were brought , and it is there that the greatest number of them have always been imported . 
As we advance towards the South , the prejudice which sanctions idleness increases in power . 
In the States nearest to the tropics there is not a single white laborer the negroes are consequently much more numerous in the South than in the North . 
And , as I have already observed , this disproportion increases daily , since the negroes are transferred to one part of the Union as soon as slavery is abolished in the other . 
Such was the proportion of the black population to the whites in the year . 
But this proportion is perpetually changing , as it constantly decreases in the North and augments in the South . 
In the United States , in , the population of the two races stood as follows States where slavery is abolished , , , whites , blacks . 
Slave States , , , whites , , blacks . 
In the United States contained a population of , , whites , and , , negroes . 
But it would be difficult to apply this method in the South . 
Thenceforward slavery loses , in their eyes , that kind of moral power which it derived from time and habit it is reduced to a mere palpable abuse of force . 
The Northern States had nothing to fear from the contrast , because in them the blacks were few in number , and the white population was very considerable . 
But if this faint dawn of freedom were to show two millions of men their true position , the oppressors would have reason to tremble . 
After having affranchised the children of their slaves the Europeans of the Southern States would very shortly be obliged to extend the same benefit to the whole black population . 
But these two causes cannot operate in the same manner in the Southern States . 
So that in the course of a few years , a great people of free negroes would exist in the heart of a white nation of equal size . 
The same abuses of power which still maintain slavery , would then become the source of the most alarming perils which the white population of the South might have to apprehend . 
The black is destitute of all these advantages , but he subsists without them because he is a slave . 
Moreover , there exists a singular principle of relative justice which is very firmly implanted in the human heart . 
Men are much more forcibly struck by those inequalities which exist within the circle of the same class , than with those which may be remarked between different classes . 
It is more easy for them to admit slavery , than to allow several millions of citizens to exist under a load of eternal infamy and hereditary wretchedness . 
I have already expressed the conviction which I entertain as to the latter event . 
r I do not imagine that the white and black races will ever live in any country upon an equal footing . 
But I believe the difficulty to be still greater in the United States than elsewhere . 
s If the British West India planters had governed themselves , they would assuredly not have passed the Slave Emancipation Bill which the mother country has recently imposed upon them . 
Of all the Europeans the English are those who have mixed least with the negroes . 
I found this opinion upon the analogous observation which I already had occasion to make in the North . 
If the federal tie were broken , the citizens of the South would be wrong to rely upon any lasting succor from their Northern countrymen . 
The fate of the white population of the Southern States will , perhaps , be similar to that of the Moors in Spain . 
This all pervading disquietude has given birth to an undertaking which is but little known , but which may have the effect of changing the fate of a portion of the human race . 
t In , the society to which I allude formed a settlement in Africa , upon the seventh degree of north latitude , which bears the name of Liberia . 
u t This society assumed the name of The Society for the Colonization of the Blacks . 
See its annual reports and more particularly the fifteenth . 
See also the pamphlet , to which allusion has already been made , entitled Letters on the Colonization Society , and on its probable Results , by Mr. Carey , Philadelphia , . 
This is indeed a strange caprice of fortune . 
In twelve years the Colonization Society has transported , negroes to Africa in the same space of time about , blacks were born in the United States . 
The inhabitants of the United States may retard the calamities which they apprehend , but they cannot now destroy their efficient cause . 
Both alternatives are equally impossible . 
I am obliged to confess that I do not regard the abolition of slavery as a means of warding off the struggle of the two races in the United States . 
But such is not the case in the South . 
The question of slavery was a question of commerce and manufacture for the slave owners in the North for those of the South , it is a question of life and death . 
When I contemplate the condition of the South , I can only discover two alternatives which may be adopted by the white inhabitants of those States viz . 
, either to emancipate the negroes , and to intermingle with them or , remaining isolated from them , to keep them in a state of slavery as long as possible . 
Such is the view which the Americans of the South take of the question , and they act consistently with it . 
As they are determined not to mingle with the negroes , they refuse to emancipate them . 
The Americans of this portion of the Union have not , indeed , augmented the hardships of slavery they have , on the contrary , bettered the physical condition of the slaves . 
The only means by which the ancients maintained slavery were fetters and death the Americans of the South of the Union have discovered more intellectual securities for the duration of their power . 
They have employed their despotism and their violence against the human mind . 
In antiquity , precautions were taken to prevent the slave from breaking his chains at the present day measures are adopted to deprive him even of the desire of freedom . 
The hope of liberty had always been allowed to the slave to cheer the hardships of his condition . 
But the Americans of the South are well aware that emancipation cannot but be dangerous , when the freed man can never be assimilated to his former master . 
To give a man his freedom , and to leave him in wretchedness and ignominy , is nothing less than to prepare a future chief for a revolt of the slaves . 
These evils are unquestionably great but they are the necessary and foreseen consequence of the very principle of modern slavery . 
The Europeans did imperfectly feel this truth , but without acknowledging it even to themselves . 
Whenever they have had to do with negroes , their conduct has either been dictated by their interest and their pride , or by their compassion . 
They first violated every right of humanity by their treatment of the negro and they afterwards informed him that those rights were precious and inviolable . 
Whatever may be the efforts of the Americans of the South to maintain slavery , they will not always succeed . 
By the choice of the master , or by the will of the slave , it will cease and in either case great calamities may be expected to ensue . 
If liberty be refused to the negroes of the South , they will in the end seize it for themselves by force if it be given , they will abuse it ere long . 
Thus , in South Carolina there were in , , whites and , blacks . 
But the emancipation of the slaves has not solved the problem , how two races so different and so hostile are to live together in peace in one country on equal terms . 
That problem is as difficult , perhaps more difficult than ever and to this difficulty the author's remarks are still perfectly applicable . 
This is the Southern theory of the Constitution , and the whole case of the South in favor of secession . 
jurists , this view appeared to be sound but it was vigorously resisted by the North , and crushed by force of arms . 
The author of this book was mistaken in supposing that the Union was a vast body which presents no definite object to patriotic feeling . 
When the day of trial came , millions of men were ready to lay down their lives for it . 
In nine States , with a population of , , , seceded , and maintained for four years a resolute but unequal contest for independence , but they were defeated . 
Lastly , the author was mistaken in supposing that a community of interests would always prevail between North and South sufficiently powerful to bind them together . 
He overlooked the influence which the question of slavery must have on the Union the moment that the majority of the people of the North declared against it . 
The maintenance of the existing institutions of the several States depends in some measure upon the maintenance of the Union itself . 
It is therefore important in the first instance to inquire into the probable fate of the Union . 
With this object I shall be obliged to retrace some of the steps which I have already taken , and to revert to topics which I have before discussed . 
The legislators who formed the Constitution of endeavored to confer a distinct and preponderating authority upon the federal power . 
But they were confined by the conditions of the task which they had undertaken to perform . 
In order to understand the consequences of this division , it is necessary to make a short distinction between the affairs of the Government . 
Amongst these may be reckoned war and diplomacy . 
There are other objects which are provincial by their very nature , that is to say , which only affect certain localities , and which can only be properly treated in that locality . 
Such , for instance , is the budget of a municipality . 
Such are the rights which regulate the civil and political condition of the citizens . 
No society can exist without civil and political rights . 
Between these two extremes the objects which I have termed mixed may be considered to lie . 
When , on the other hand , the provincial governments are invested with the power of regulating those same affairs of mixed interest , an opposite tendency prevails in society . 
Independent nations have therefore a natural tendency to centralization , and confederations to dismemberment . 
It now only remains for us to apply these general principles to the American Union . 
The several States were necessarily possessed of the right of regulating all exclusively provincial affairs . 
The undertakings of the Government of the Union are more vast , but their influence is more rarely felt . 
Those of the provincial governments are comparatively small , but they are incessant , and they serve to keep alive the authority which they represent . 
The Federal Government is very far removed from its subjects , whilst the provincial governments are within the reach of them all , and are ready to attend to the smallest appeal . 
In this respect their habits and feelings harmonize with their interests . 
When a number of confederate states unite to form a single nation , the same causes operate in an opposite direction . 
The Union is a vast body which presents no definite object to patriotic feeling . 
The forms and limits of the State are distinct and circumscribed since it represents a certain number of objects which are familiar to the citizens and beloved by all . 
Patriotism , then , which is frequently a mere extension of individual egotism , is still directed to the State , and is not excited by the Union . 
Thus the tendency of the interests , the habits , and the feelings of the people is to centre political activity in the States , in preference to the Union . 
It is easy to estimate the different forces of the two governments , by remarking the manner in which they fulfil their respective functions . 
At first sight it might readily be imagined that it is the provincial government which is armed with the authority of the nation , and that Congress represents a single State . 
As often as a steady resistance is offered to the Federal Government it will be found to yield . 
z z See the conduct of the Northern States in the war of . 
During that war , says Jefferson in a letter to General Lafayette , four of the Eastern States were only attached to the Union , like so many inanimate bodies to living men . 
But even if the Government of the Union had any strength inherent in itself , the physical situation of the country would render the exercise of that strength very difficult . 
This note , and the paragraph in the text which precedes , have been shown by the results of the Civil War to be a misconception of the writer . 
However strong a government may be , it cannot easily escape from the consequences of a principle which it has once admitted as the foundation of its constitution . 
But the Government would then be exerting a force not derived from itself , but from a principle contrary to its nature . 
Great things may then be done in the name of the Federal Government , but in reality that Government will have ceased to exist . 
b In both these cases , the power which acts in the name of the confederation becomes stronger the more it abandons the natural state and the acknowledged principles of confederations . 
In America the existing Union is advantageous to all the States , but it is not indispensable to any one of them . 
Several of them might break the federal tie without compromising the welfare of the others , although their own prosperity would be lessened . 
On the other hand , there is no State which seems hitherto to have its ambition much interested in the maintenance of the existing Union . 
Amongst the various reasons which tend to render the existing Union useful to the Americans , two principal causes are peculiarly evident to the observer . 
Although the Americans are , as it were , alone upon their continent , their commerce makes them the neighbors of all the nations with which they trade . 
Notwithstanding their apparent isolation , the Americans require a certain degree of strength , which they cannot retain otherwise than by remaining united to each other . 
At present they have no invasion to fear , and consequently no standing armies to maintain , no taxes to levy . 
If the Union were dissolved , all these burdensome measures might ere long be required . 
The Americans are then very powerfully interested in the maintenance of their Union . 
On the other hand , it is almost impossible to discover any sort of material interest which might at present tempt a portion of the Union to separate from the other States . 
New York , Pennsylvania , and Virginia comprise them within their borders , and they extend as much to the west as to the east of the line . 
Within these limits the qualities of the soil , the temperature , and the produce of the country , are extremely various . 
The vast extent of territory occupied by the Anglo American republics has given rise to doubts as to the maintenance of their Union . 
c See Darby's View of the United States , p . 
In the number of States and Territories had increased to , the population to , , , and the area of the States , , , square miles . 
This does not include the Philippine Islands , Hawaii , or Porto Rico . 
The area of the Philippine Islands is about , square miles , that of Hawaii is , square miles , and the area of Porto Rico is about , square miles . 
It is indeed easy to discover different interests in the different parts of the Union , but I am unacquainted with any which are hostile to each other . 
The Southern States are almost exclusively agricultural . 
The Northern States are more peculiarly commercial and manufacturing . 
The States of the West are at the same time agricultural and manufacturing . 
In the South the crops consist of tobacco , of rice , of cotton , and of sugar in the North and the West , of wheat and maize . 
These are different sources of wealth but union is the means by which these sources are opened to all , and rendered equally advantageous to the several districts . 
The South and the West , on their side , are still more directly interested in the preservation of the Union , and the prosperity of the North . 
The produce of the South is , for the most part , exported beyond seas the South and the West consequently stand in need of the commercial resources of the North . 
They are likewise interested in the maintenance of a powerful fleet by the Union , to protect them efficaciously . 
Independently of this commercial utility , the South and the West of the Union derive great political advantages from their connection with the North . 
The South contains an enormous slave population a population which is already alarming , and still more formidable for the future . 
The Western States are consequently entirely cut off , by their position , from the traditions of Europe and the civilization of the Old World . 
Nor do I attach much importance to the language of the Americans , when they manifest , in their daily conversations , the intention of maintaining the federal system adopted by their forefathers . 
I will never admit that men constitute a social body , simply because they obey the same head and the same laws . 
Although the Anglo Americans have several religious sects , they all regard religion in the same manner . 
From Maine to the Floridas , and from the Missouri to the Atlantic Ocean , the people is held to be the legitimate source of all power . 
The same notions are entertained respecting liberty and equality , the liberty of the press , the right of association , the jury , and the responsibility of the agents of Government . 
The majority of them believe that a man will be led to do what is just and good by following his own interest rightly understood . 
They hold that every man is born in possession of the right of self government , and that no one has the right of constraining his fellow creatures to be happy . 
I do not give all these opinions as true , but I quote them as characteristic of the Americans . 
The Anglo Americans are not only united together by these common opinions , but they are separated from all other nations by a common feeling of pride . 
For the last fifty years no pains have been spared to convince the inhabitants of the United States that they constitute the only religious , enlightened , and free people . 
The dangers which threaten the American Union do not originate in the diversity of interests or of opinions , but in the various characters and passions of the Americans . 
I have already explained the influence which slavery has exercised upon the commercial ability of the Americans in the South and this same influence equally extends to their manners . 
The slave is a servant who never remonstrates , and who submits to everything without complaint . 
He may sometimes assassinate , but he never withstands , his master . 
In the South there are no families so poor as not to have slaves . 
The American of the Northern States is surrounded by no slaves in his childhood he is even unattended by free servants , and is usually obliged to provide for his own wants . 
He therefore becomes patient , reflecting , tolerant , slow to act , and persevering in his designs . 
They are taught from infancy to combat want , and to place comfort above all the pleasures of the intellect or the heart . 
The imagination is extinguished by the trivial details of life , and the ideas become less numerous and less general , but far more practical and more precise . 
The citizen of the South is more given to act upon impulse he is more clever , more frank , more generous , more intellectual , and more brilliant . 
The former , with a greater degree of activity , of common sense , of information , and of general aptitude , has the characteristic good and evil qualities of the middle classes . 
The latter has the tastes , the prejudices , the weaknesses , and the magnanimity of all aristocracies . 
The same remark is applicable to a society of nations . 
Slavery , then , does not attack the American Union directly in its interests , but indirectly in its manners . 
e Census of , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , . 
The States which gave their assent to the federal contract in were thirteen in number the Union now consists of thirty four members . 
The population , which amounted to nearly , , in , had more than tripled in the space of forty years and in it amounted to nearly , , . 
e Changes of such magnitude cannot take place without some danger . 
When they arrive in the deserts they are unknown to each other , and they have neither traditions , family feeling , nor the force of example to check their excesses . 
The empire of the laws is feeble amongst them that of morality is still more powerless . 
The settlers who are constantly peopling the valley of the Mississippi are , then , in every respect very inferior to the Americans who inhabit the older parts of the Union . 
Nevertheless , they already exercise a great influence in its councils and they arrive at the government of the commonwealth before they have learnt to govern themselves . 
f f This indeed is only a temporary danger . 
I have no doubt that in time society will assume as much stability and regularity in the West as it has already done upon the coast of the Atlantic Ocean . 
The greater the individual weakness of each of the contracting parties , the greater are the chances of the duration of the contract for their safety is then dependent upon their union . 
The probable unanimity of the States is diminished as their number increases . 
h The area of the State of New York is , square miles . 
See U. S. census report of . 
Since the first settlement of the British colonies , the number of inhabitants has about doubled every twenty two years . 
i I admit that these , , of men have no ho hostile interests . 
This may still be the case even if the lands on the western slope of the Rocky Mountains should be found to be unfit for cultivation . 
The territory which is already occupied can easily contain this number of inhabitants . 
See Malte Brun , vol . 
But the greatest peril to which the Union is exposed by its increase arises from the continual changes which take place in the position of its internal strength . 
The distance from Lake Superior to the Gulf of Mexico extends from the th to the th degree of latitude , a distance of more than , miles as the bird flies . 
The frontier of the United States winds along the whole of this immense line , sometimes falling within its limits , but more frequently extending far beyond it , into the waste . 
It has been calculated that the whites advance every year a mean distance of seventeen miles along the whole of his vast boundary . 
j Obstacles , such as an unproductive district , a lake or an Indian nation unexpectedly encountered , are sometimes met with . 
The advancing column then halts for a while its two extremities fall back upon themselves , and as soon as they are reunited they proceed onwards . 
j See Legislative Documents , th Congress , No. , p . 
Within this first line of conquering settlers towns are built , and vast States founded . 
Their population amounts to nearly , , . 
l k , , Census of . 
l The distance from Jefferson , the capital of the State of Missouri , to Washington is , miles . 
All the States are borne onwards at the same time in the path of fortune , but of course they do not all increase and prosper in the same proportion . 
But from the Potomac to the mouth of the Mississippi the coast is sandy and flat . 
This first natural cause of inferiority is united to another cause proceeding from the laws . 
The North is therefore superior to the South both in commerce m and manufacture the natural consequence of which is the more rapid increase of population and of wealth within its borders . 
The States situate upon the shores of the Atlantic Ocean are already half peopled . 
Most of the land is held by an owner and these districts cannot therefore receive so many emigrants as the Western States , where a boundless field is still open to their exertions . 
The valley of the Mississippi is far more fertile than the coast of the Atlantic Ocean . 
This reason , added to all the others , contributes to drive the Europeans westward a fact which may be rigorously demonstrated by figures . 
It is found that the sum total of the population of all the United States has about tripled in the course of forty years . 
But in the recent States adjacent to the Mississippi , the population has increased thirty one fold , within the same space of time . 
, amounted to only , tons . 
In the same year the tonnage of the vessels of the State of Massachusetts alone amounted to , tons . 
Thus the State of Massachusetts had three times as much shipping as the four above mentioned States . 
Thus the area of the State of Massachusetts forms only one thirtieth part of the area of the four States and its population is five times smaller than theirs . 
Sailors are usually taken from the lowest ranks of the population . 
But in the Southern States these lowest ranks are composed of slaves , and it is very difficult to employ them at sea . 
n Darby's View of the United States , p . 
The relative position of the central federal power is continually displaced . 
If the Union goes on to subsist , the basin of the Mississippi is evidently marked out , by its fertility and its extent , as the future centre of the Federal Government . 
In thirty or forty years , that tract of country will have assumed the rank which naturally belongs to it . 
It is easy to calculate that its population , compared to that of the coast of the Atlantic , will be , in round numbers , as to . 
In a few years the States which founded the Union will lose the direction of its policy , and the population of the valley of the Mississippi will preponderate in the federal assemblies . 
o In Virginia had nineteen representatives in Congress . 
This number continued to increase until the year , when it reached to twenty three from that time it began to decrease , and in Virginia elected only twenty one representatives . 
The State of Ohio had only one representative in , and in it had already nineteen . 
the population of one district , as , for instance , the State of Delaware , has increased in the proportion of five per cent . 
whilst that of another , as the territory of Michigan , has increased per cent . 
Thus the population of Virginia had augmented thirteen per cent . 
, and that of the border State of Ohio sixty one per cent . 
, in the same space of time . 
The general table of these changes , which is given in the National Calendar , displays a striking picture of the unequal fortunes of the different States . 
p It has just been said that in the course of the last term the population of Virginia has increased thirteen per cent . 
and it is necessary to explain how the number of representatives for a State may decrease , when the population of that State , far from diminishing , is actually upon the increase . 
I take the State of Virginia , to which I have already alluded , as my term of comparison . 
Thus , to the th Congress in , Virginia and West Virginia send only fourteen representatives . 
Nor do I attach much importance to the language of the Americans , when they manifest , in their daily conversations , the intention of maintaining the federal system adopted by their forefathers . 
I will never admit that men constitute a social body , simply because they obey the same head and the same laws . 
Although the Anglo Americans have several religious sects , they all regard religion in the same manner . 
From Maine to the Floridas , and from the Missouri to the Atlantic Ocean , the people is held to be the legitimate source of all power . 
The same notions are entertained respecting liberty and equality , the liberty of the press , the right of association , the jury , and the responsibility of the agents of Government . 
The majority of them believe that a man will be led to do what is just and good by following his own interest rightly understood . 
They hold that every man is born in possession of the right of self government , and that no one has the right of constraining his fellow creatures to be happy . 
I do not give all these opinions as true , but I quote them as characteristic of the Americans . 
The Anglo Americans are not only united together by these common opinions , but they are separated from all other nations by a common feeling of pride . 
For the last fifty years no pains have been spared to convince the inhabitants of the United States that they constitute the only religious , enlightened , and free people . 
The dangers which threaten the American Union do not originate in the diversity of interests or of opinions , but in the various characters and passions of the Americans . 
I have already explained the influence which slavery has exercised upon the commercial ability of the Americans in the South and this same influence equally extends to their manners . 
The slave is a servant who never remonstrates , and who submits to everything without complaint . 
He may sometimes assassinate , but he never withstands , his master . 
In the South there are no families so poor as not to have slaves . 
The American of the Northern States is surrounded by no slaves in his childhood he is even unattended by free servants , and is usually obliged to provide for his own wants . 
He therefore becomes patient , reflecting , tolerant , slow to act , and persevering in his designs . 
They are taught from infancy to combat want , and to place comfort above all the pleasures of the intellect or the heart . 
The imagination is extinguished by the trivial details of life , and the ideas become less numerous and less general , but far more practical and more precise . 
The citizen of the South is more given to act upon impulse he is more clever , more frank , more generous , more intellectual , and more brilliant . 
The former , with a greater degree of activity , of common sense , of information , and of general aptitude , has the characteristic good and evil qualities of the middle classes . 
The latter has the tastes , the prejudices , the weaknesses , and the magnanimity of all aristocracies . 
The same remark is applicable to a society of nations . 
Slavery , then , does not attack the American Union directly in its interests , but indirectly in its manners . 
e Census of , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , . 
The States which gave their assent to the federal contract in were thirteen in number the Union now consists of thirty four members . 
The population , which amounted to nearly , , in , had more than tripled in the space of forty years and in it amounted to nearly , , . 
e Changes of such magnitude cannot take place without some danger . 
When they arrive in the deserts they are unknown to each other , and they have neither traditions , family feeling , nor the force of example to check their excesses . 
The empire of the laws is feeble amongst them that of morality is still more powerless . 
The settlers who are constantly peopling the valley of the Mississippi are , then , in every respect very inferior to the Americans who inhabit the older parts of the Union . 
Nevertheless , they already exercise a great influence in its councils and they arrive at the government of the commonwealth before they have learnt to govern themselves . 
f f This indeed is only a temporary danger . 
I have no doubt that in time society will assume as much stability and regularity in the West as it has already done upon the coast of the Atlantic Ocean . 
The greater the individual weakness of each of the contracting parties , the greater are the chances of the duration of the contract for their safety is then dependent upon their union . 
The probable unanimity of the States is diminished as their number increases . 
h The area of the State of New York is , square miles . 
See U. S. census report of . 
Since the first settlement of the British colonies , the number of inhabitants has about doubled every twenty two years . 
i I admit that these , , of men have no ho hostile interests . 
This may still be the case even if the lands on the western slope of the Rocky Mountains should be found to be unfit for cultivation . 
The territory which is already occupied can easily contain this number of inhabitants . 
See Malte Brun , vol . 
But the greatest peril to which the Union is exposed by its increase arises from the continual changes which take place in the position of its internal strength . 
The distance from Lake Superior to the Gulf of Mexico extends from the th to the th degree of latitude , a distance of more than , miles as the bird flies . 
The frontier of the United States winds along the whole of this immense line , sometimes falling within its limits , but more frequently extending far beyond it , into the waste . 
It has been calculated that the whites advance every year a mean distance of seventeen miles along the whole of his vast boundary . 
j Obstacles , such as an unproductive district , a lake or an Indian nation unexpectedly encountered , are sometimes met with . 
The advancing column then halts for a while its two extremities fall back upon themselves , and as soon as they are reunited they proceed onwards . 
j See Legislative Documents , th Congress , No. , p . 
Within this first line of conquering settlers towns are built , and vast States founded . 
Their population amounts to nearly , , . 
l k , , Census of . 
l The distance from Jefferson , the capital of the State of Missouri , to Washington is , miles . 
All the States are borne onwards at the same time in the path of fortune , but of course they do not all increase and prosper in the same proportion . 
But from the Potomac to the mouth of the Mississippi the coast is sandy and flat . 
This first natural cause of inferiority is united to another cause proceeding from the laws . 
The North is therefore superior to the South both in commerce m and manufacture the natural consequence of which is the more rapid increase of population and of wealth within its borders . 
The States situate upon the shores of the Atlantic Ocean are already half peopled . 
Most of the land is held by an owner and these districts cannot therefore receive so many emigrants as the Western States , where a boundless field is still open to their exertions . 
The valley of the Mississippi is far more fertile than the coast of the Atlantic Ocean . 
This reason , added to all the others , contributes to drive the Europeans westward a fact which may be rigorously demonstrated by figures . 
It is found that the sum total of the population of all the United States has about tripled in the course of forty years . 
But in the recent States adjacent to the Mississippi , the population has increased thirty one fold , within the same space of time . 
, amounted to only , tons . 
In the same year the tonnage of the vessels of the State of Massachusetts alone amounted to , tons . 
Thus the State of Massachusetts had three times as much shipping as the four above mentioned States . 
Thus the area of the State of Massachusetts forms only one thirtieth part of the area of the four States and its population is five times smaller than theirs . 
Sailors are usually taken from the lowest ranks of the population . 
But in the Southern States these lowest ranks are composed of slaves , and it is very difficult to employ them at sea . 
n Darby's View of the United States , p . 
The relative position of the central federal power is continually displaced . 
If the Union goes on to subsist , the basin of the Mississippi is evidently marked out , by its fertility and its extent , as the future centre of the Federal Government . 
In thirty or forty years , that tract of country will have assumed the rank which naturally belongs to it . 
It is easy to calculate that its population , compared to that of the coast of the Atlantic , will be , in round numbers , as to . 
In a few years the States which founded the Union will lose the direction of its policy , and the population of the valley of the Mississippi will preponderate in the federal assemblies . 
o In Virginia had nineteen representatives in Congress . 
This number continued to increase until the year , when it reached to twenty three from that time it began to decrease , and in Virginia elected only twenty one representatives . 
The State of Ohio had only one representative in , and in it had already nineteen . 
the population of one district , as , for instance , the State of Delaware , has increased in the proportion of five per cent . 
whilst that of another , as the territory of Michigan , has increased per cent . 
Thus the population of Virginia had augmented thirteen per cent . 
, and that of the border State of Ohio sixty one per cent . 
, in the same space of time . 
The general table of these changes , which is given in the National Calendar , displays a striking picture of the unequal fortunes of the different States . 
p It has just been said that in the course of the last term the population of Virginia has increased thirteen per cent . 
and it is necessary to explain how the number of representatives for a State may decrease , when the population of that State , far from diminishing , is actually upon the increase . 
I take the State of Virginia , to which I have already alluded , as my term of comparison . 
Thus , to the th Congress in , Virginia and West Virginia send only fourteen representatives . 
But union is still more difficult to maintain at a time at which one party is losing strength , and the other is gaining it . 
This rapid and disproportionate increase of certain States threatens the independence of the others . 
New York might perhaps succeed , with its , , of inhabitants and its forty representatives , in dictating to the other States in Congress . 
The weak generally mistrust the justice and the reason of the strong . 
The States which increase less rapidly than the others look upon those which are more favored by fortune with envy and suspicion . 
I am inclined to think that the hostile measures taken by the Southern provinces upon a recent occasion are attributable to no other cause . 
But this is amply sufficient to endanger the maintenance of the Union . 
If kings and peoples had only had their true interests in view ever since the beginning of the world , the name of war would scarcely be known among mankind . 
r The population of a country assuredly constitutes the first element of its wealth . 
during which Virginia lost two of its representatives in Congress , its population increased in the proportion of . 
that of Carolina in the proportion of fifteen per cent . 
and that of Georgia , . 
But the population of Russia , which increases more rapidly than that of any other European country , only augments in ten years at the rate of . 
in France , at the rate of seven per cent . 
and in Europe in general , at the rate of . 
The Americans contemplate this extraordinary and hasty progress with exultation but they would be wiser to consider it with sorrow and alarm . 
The Americans are evidently disposed to look upon their future condition with alarm . 
To prove this assertion I shall not have recourse to any remote occurrences , but to circumstances which I have myself witnessed , and which belong to our own time . 
The post , t that great instrument of intellectual intercourse , now reaches into the backwoods and steamboats have established daily means of communication between the different points of the coast . 
An inland navigation of unexampled rapidity conveys commodities up and down the rivers of the country . 
t In , the district of Michigan , which only contains , inhabitants , and is still an almost unexplored wilderness , possessed miles of mail roads . 
The territory of Arkansas , which is still more uncultivated , was already intersected by , miles of mail roads . 
The postage of newspapers alone in the whole Union amounted to , . 
u In the course of ten years , from to , steamboats have been launched upon the rivers which water the valley of the Mississippi alone . 
In steamboats existed in the United States . 
This continual emigration of the North to the South is peculiarly favorable to the fusion of all the different provincial characters into one national character . 
The civilization of the North appears to be the common standard , to which the whole nation will one day be assimilated . 
But to attain this point the people had risen , to a certain extent , above itself . 
v Since the movement is certainly in the opposite direction , and the federal power has largely increased , and tends to further increase . 
The Constitution had not destroyed the distinct sovereignty of the States and all communities , of whatever nature they may be , are impelled by a secret propensity to assert their independence . 
This propensity is still more decided in a country like America , in which every village forms a sort of republic accustomed to conduct its own affairs . 
It therefore cost the States an effort to submit to the federal supremacy and all efforts , however successful they may be , necessarily subside with the causes in which they originated . 
No sooner were they delivered from the cares which oppressed them , than they easily returned to their ordinary habits , and gave themselves up without resistance to their natural inclinations . 
When a powerful Government no longer appeared to be necessary , they once more began to think it irksome . 
The general principle of Union was adopted , but in every minor detail there was an actual tendency to independence . 
The principle of confederation was every day more easily admitted , and more rarely applied so that the Federal Government brought about its own decline , whilst it was creating order and peace . 
The position of the Federal Government then became exceedingly critical . 
Its enemies were in possession of the popular favor and they obtained the right of conducting its policy by pledging themselves to lessen its influence . 
From that time forwards the Government of the Union has invariably been obliged to recede , as often as it has attempted to enter the lists with the governments of the States . 
And whenever an interpretation of the terms of the Federal Constitution has been called for , that interpretation has most frequently been opposed to the Union , and favorable to the States . 
The Democratic party , which has constantly been opposed to the increase of the federal authority , then accused the Congress of usurpation , and the Chief Magistrate of ambition . 
The central Government was intimidated by the opposition and it soon acknowledged its error , promising exactly to confine its influence for the future within the circle which was prescribed to it . 
The Constitution confers upon the Union the right of treating with foreign nations . 
The Indian tribes , which border upon the frontiers of the United States , had usually been regarded in this light . 
Some of the States which had been founded upon the coast of the Atlantic , extended indefinitely to the West , into wild regions where no European had ever penetrated . 
The States whose confines were irrevocably fixed , looked with a jealous eye upon the unbounded regions which the future would enable their neighbors to explore . 
x Thenceforward the Federal Government became the owner of all the uncultivated lands which lie beyond the borders of the thirteen States first confederated . 
New States have , however , been formed in the course of time , in the midst of those wilds which were formerly ceded by the inhabitants of the shores of the Atlantic . 
Congress has gone on to sell , for the profit of the nation at large , the uncultivated lands which those new States contained . 
But the latter at length asserted that , as they were now fully constituted , they ought to enjoy the exclusive right of converting the produce of these sales to their own use . 
y It is true that the President refused his assent to this law but he completely adopted it in principle . 
The slightest observation in the United States enables one to appreciate the advantages which the country derives from the bank . 
These advantages are of several kinds , but one of them is peculiarly striking to the stranger . 
The banknotes of the United States are taken upon the borders of the desert for the same value as at Philadelphia , where the bank conducts its operations . 
z z The present Bank of the United States was established in , with a capital of , , its charter expires in . 
Last year Congress passed a law to renew it , but the President put his veto upon the bill . 
The struggle is still going on with great violence on either side , and the speedy fall of the bank may easily be foreseen . 
It was soon afterwards extinguished by General Jackson . 
The Bank of the United States is nevertheless the object of great animosity . 
Its directors have proclaimed their hostility to the President and they are accused , not without some show of probability , of having abused their influence to thwart his election . 
The Bank of the United States always holds a great number of the notes issued by the provincial banks , which it can at any time oblige them to convert into cash . 
It has itself nothing to fear from a similar demand , as the extent of its resources enables it to meet all claims . 
But the existence of the provincial banks is thus threatened , and their operations are restricted , since they are only able to issue a quantity of notes duly proportioned to their capital . 
They submit with impatience to this salutary control . 
The newspapers which they have bought over , and the President , whose interest renders him their instrument , attack the bank with the greatest vehemence . 
The Union has never displayed so much weakness as in the celebrated question of the tariff . 
a The wars of the French Revolution and of had created manufacturing establishments in the North of the Union , by cutting off all free communication between America and Europe . 
The Southern States , which have no manufactures to encourage , and which are exclusively agricultural , soon complained of this measure . 
Such were the simple facts , and I do not pretend to examine in this place whether their complaints were well founded or unjust . 
a See principally for the details of this affair , the Legislative Documents , d Congress , d Session , No. . 
As early as the year , South Carolina declared , in a petition to Congress , that the tariff was unconstitutional , oppressive , and unjust . 
And the States of Georgia , Virginia , North Carolina , Alabama , and Mississippi subsequently remonstrated against it with more or less vigor . 
But Congress , far from lending an ear to these complaints , raised the scale of tariff duties in the years and , and recognized anew the principle on which it was founded . 
A doctrine was then proclaimed , or rather revived , in the South , which took the name of Nullification . 
I have shown in the proper place that the object of the Federal Constitution was not to form a league , but to create a national government . 
When the majority has pronounced its decision , it is the duty of the minority to submit . 
Such is the sound legal doctrine , and the only one which agrees with the text of the Constitution , and the known intention of those who framed it . 
When South Carolina perceived that Congress turned a deaf ear to its remonstrances , it threatened to apply the doctrine of nullification to the federal tariff bill . 
Congress persisted in its former system and at length the storm broke out . 
b That is to say , the majority of the people for the opposite party , called the Union party , always formed a very strong and active minority . 
Carolina may contain about , electors , were in favor of nullification , and , opposed to it . 
c This decree was preceded by a report of the committee by which it was framed , containing the explanation of the motives and object of the law . 
The following passage occurs in it , p . 
If they were destitute of this right , they would not be sovereign . 
South Carolina declares that she acknowledges no tribunal upon earth above her authority . 
Chapter XVIII Future Condition Of Three Races Part IX In the meantime South Carolina armed her militia , and prepared for war . 
But Congress , which had slighted its suppliant subjects , listened to their complaints as soon as they were found to have taken up arms . 
e Thus Congress completely abandoned the principle of the tariff and substituted a mere fiscal impost to a system of protective duties . 
f The Government of the Union , in order to conceal its defeat , had recourse to an expedient which is very much in vogue with feeble governments . 
d Congress was finally decided to take this step by the conduct of the powerful State of Virginia , whose legislature offered to serve as mediator between the Union and South Carolina . 
Hitherto the latter State had appeared to be entirely abandoned , even by the States which had joined in her remonstrances . 
e This law was passed on March , . 
f This bill was brought in by Mr. Clay , and it passed in four days through both Houses of Congress by an immense majority . 
I am , however , of opinion that the conduct of the individual who now represents the Federal Government may be reckoned as one of the dangers which threaten its continuance . 
All this may perhaps be true but the inferences which have been drawn from these truths are exceedingly erroneous . 
It is by perpetually flattering these passions that he maintains his station and his popularity . 
General Jackson is the slave of the majority he yields to its wishes , its propensities , and its demands say rather , that he anticipates and forestalls them . 
He is a favorite who sometimes treats his master roughly . 
The power of General Jackson perpetually increases but that of the President declines in his hands the Federal Government is strong , but it will pass enfeebled into the hands of his successor . 
I am strangely mistaken if the Federal Government of the United States be not constantly losing strength , retiring gradually from public affairs , and narrowing its circle of action more and more . 
It is naturally feeble , but it now abandons even its pretensions to strength . 
On the other hand , I thought that I remarked a more lively sense of independence , and a more decided attachment to provincial government in the States . 
The change will therefore go on , and it may be predicted that , unless some extraordinary event occurs , the Government of the Union will grow weaker and weaker every day . 
I think , however , that the period is still remote at which the federal power will be entirely extinguished by its inability to protect itself and to maintain peace in the country . 
The Union is sanctioned by the manners and desires of the people its results are palpable , its benefits visible . 
The Government of the United States is , of all the federal governments which have hitherto been established , the one which is most naturally destined to act . 
I hold that a contrary tendency may distinctly be observed . 
Such are the facts which the present time discloses . 
But we ought not to confound the future prospects of the republic with those of the Union . 
What is understood by a republican government in the United States is the slow and quiet action of society upon itself . 
It is a regular state of things really founded upon the enlightened will of the people . 
It is a conciliatory government under which resolutions are allowed time to ripen and in which they are deliberately discussed , and executed with mature judgment . 
The republicans in the United States set a high value upon morality , respect religious belief , and acknowledge the existence of rights . 
They profess to think that a people ought to be moral , religious , and temperate , in proportion as it is free . 
But the power of the majority is not of itself unlimited . 
In the moral world humanity , justice , and reason enjoy an undisputed supremacy in the political world vested rights are treated with no less deference . 
But the demagogues of Europe have made strange discoveries . 
A republic is not , according to them , the rule of the majority , as has hitherto been thought , but the rule of those who are strenuous partisans of the majority . 
It is not the people who preponderates in this kind of government , but those who are best versed in the good qualities of the people . 
A happy distinction , which allows men to act in the name of nations without consulting them , and to claim their gratitude whilst their rights are spurned . 
It had been supposed , until our time , that despotism was odious , under whatever form it appeared . 
But it is a discovery of modern days that there are such things as legitimate tyranny and holy injustice , provided they are exercised in the name of the people . 
The ideas which the Americans have adopted respecting the republican form of government , render it easy for them to live under it , and insure its duration . 
If , in their country , this form be often practically bad , at least it is theoretically good and , in the end , the people always acts in conformity to it . 
It was impossible at the foundation of the States , and it would still be difficult , to establish a central administration in America . 
The inhabitants are dispersed over too great a space , and separated by too many natural obstacles , for one man to undertake to direct the details of their existence . 
America is therefore pre eminently the country of provincial and municipal government . 
To this cause , which was plainly felt by all the Europeans of the New World , the Anglo Americans added several others peculiar to themselves . 
Royalty would not find a system of legislation prepared for it beforehand and a monarchy would then exist , really surrounded by republican institutions . 
The monarchical principle would likewise have great difficulty in penetrating into the manners of the Americans . 
Thus every man is allowed freely to take that road which he thinks will lead him to heaven just as the law permits every citizen to have the right of choosing his government . 
Now , it must be admitted that there is no symptom or presage of the approach of such a revolution . 
There is nothing more striking to a person newly arrived in the United States , than the kind of tumultuous agitation in which he finds political society . 
Experience shows that these two kinds of legislative instability have no necessary connection for they have been found united or separate , according to times and circumstances . 
The first is common in the United States , but not the second the Americans often change their laws , but the foundation of the Constitution is respected . 
In our days the republican principle rules in America , as the monarchical principle did in France under Louis XIV . 
Amongst them the royal power had neither advocates nor opponents . 
In like manner does the republican government exist in America , without contention or opposition without proofs and arguments , by a tacit agreement , a sort of consensus universalis . 
It is , however , my opinion that by changing their administrative forms as often as they do , the inhabitants of the United States compromise the future stability of their government . 
This is true in general , but it is more peculiarly applicable to a democratic republic . 
Some of our European politicians expect to see an aristocracy arise in America , and they already predict the exact period at which it will be able to assume the reins of government . 
I have previously observed , and I repeat my assertion , that the present tendency of American society appears to me to become more and more democratic . 
All the aristocracies of the Middle Ages were founded by military conquest the conqueror was the noble , the vanquished became the serf . 
Inequality was then imposed by force and after it had been introduced into the maners of the country it maintained its own authority , and was sanctioned by the legislation . 
Communities have existed which were aristocratic from their earliest origin , owing to circumstances anterior to that event , and which became more democratic in each succeeding age . 
Such was the destiny of the Romans , and of the barbarians after them . 
The coast of the United States , from the Bay of Fundy to the Sabine River in the Gulf of Mexico , is more than two thousand miles in extent . 
These shores form an unbroken line , and they are all subject to the same government . 
No nation in the world possesses vaster , deeper , or more secure ports for shipping than the Americans . 
America consequently stands in daily need of European trade . 
The Americans only consume a small portion of this produce , and they are willing to sell us the rest . 
The Anglo Americans have always displayed a very decided taste for the sea . 
The Declaration of Independence broke the commercial restrictions which united them to England , and gave a fresh and powerful stimulus to their maritime genius . 
Ever since that time , the shipping of the Union has increased in almost the same rapid proportion as the number of its inhabitants . 
The Americans themselves now transport to their own shores nine tenths of the European produce which they consume . 
g And they also bring three quarters of the exports of the New World to the European consumer . 
i g The total value of goods imported during the year which ended on September , , was , , . 
The value of the cargoes of foreign vessels did not amount to , , , or about one tenth of the entire sum . 
The tonnage of the English vessels which entered the ports of London , Liverpool , and Hull , in the years , , and , amounted to , tons . 
The foreign vessels which entered the same ports during the same years amounted to , tons . 
The ratio between them was , therefore , about to . 
In the year the ratio between the foreign and British ships which entered the ports of Great Britain was to . 
These statements relate to a condition of affairs which has ceased to exist the Civil War and the heavy taxation of the United States entirely altered the trade and navigation of the country . 
Thus , not only does the American merchant face the competition of his own countrymen , but he even supports that of foreign nations in their own ports with success . 
This is readily explained by the fact that the vessels of the United States can cross the seas at a cheaper rate than any other vessels in the world . 
As long as the mercantile shipping of the United States preserves this superiority , it will not only retain what it has acquired , but it will constantly increase in prosperity . 
The American vessels cost almost as much to build as our own j they are not better built , and they generally last for a shorter time . 
But I am of opinion that the true cause of their superiority must not be sought for in physical advantages , but that it is wholly attributable to their moral and intellectual qualities . 
j Materials are , generally speaking , less expensive in America than in Europe , but the price of labor is much higher . 
The following comparison will illustrate my meaning . 
The French had less money and fewer men than their enemies their resources were infinitely inferior nevertheless they were constantly victorious , until their adversaries chose to imitate their example . 
The Americans have introduced a similar system into their commercial speculations and they do for cheapness what the French did for conquest . 
But the American neglects these precautions and braves these dangers . 
The Americans are often shipwrecked , but no trader crosses the seas so rapidly . 
And as they perform the same distance in a shorter time , they can perform it at a cheaper rate . 
The American starts from Boston to go to purchase tea in China he arrives at Canton , stays there a few days , and then returns . 
In less than two years he has sailed as far as the entire circumference of the globe , and he has seen land but once . 
I cannot better explain my meaning than by saying that the Americans affect a sort of heroism in their manner of trading . 
This circumstance is prejudicial to the excellence of the work but it powerfully contributes to awaken the intelligence of the workman . 
Nothing tends to materialize man , and to deprive his work of the faintest trace of mind , more than extreme division of labor . 
In a country like America , where men devoted to special occupations are rare , a long apprenticeship cannot be required from anyone who embraces a profession . 
The Americans , therefore , change their means of gaining a livelihood very readily and they suit their occupations to the exigencies of the moment , in the manner most profitable to themselves . 
Men are to be met with who have successively been barristers , farmers , merchants , ministers of the gospel , and physicians . 
If the American be less perfect in each craft than the European , at least there is scarcely any trade with which he is utterly unacquainted . 
His capacity is more general , and the circle of his intelligence is enlarged . 
America is a land of wonders , in which everything is in constant motion , and every movement seems an improvement . 
The idea of novelty is there indissolubly connected with the idea of amelioration . 
No natural boundary seems to be set to the efforts of man and what is not yet done is only what he has not yet attempted to do . 
The whole life of an American is passed like a game of chance , a revolutionary crisis , or a battle . 
As the same causes are continually in operation throughout the country , they ultimately impart an irresistible impulse to the national character . 
It is this same passion , applied to maritime commerce , which makes him the cheapest and the quickest trader in the world . 
The maritime genius of the Americans prompts them to enter into competition with the English . 
l Part of the commerce of the Mediterranean is already carried on by American vessels . 
The great colonies which were founded in South America by the Spaniards and the Portuguese have since become empires . 
Civil war and oppression now lay waste those extensive regions . 
Population does not increase , and the thinly scattered inhabitants are too much absorbed in the cares of self defense even to attempt any amelioration of their condition . 
Such , however , will not always be the case . 
It is unquestionable that the Americans of the North will one day supply the wants of the Americans of the South . 
The Americans of the United States already exercise a very considerable moral influence upon all the peoples of the New World . 
It is evident that , whatever may happen , the commercial States will remain united . 
They are all contiguous to each other they have identically the same opinions , interests , and manners and they are alone competent to form a very great maritime power . 
Even if the South of the Union were to become independent of the North , it would still require the services of those States . 
I have already observed that the South is not a commercial country , and nothing intimates that it is likely to become so . 
But the Northern States are undoubtedly able to act as their intermediate agents cheaper than any other merchants . 
They will therefore retain that employment , for cheapness is the sovereign law of commerce . 
National claims and national prejudices cannot resist the influence of cheapness . 
Nothing can be more virulent than the hatred which exists between the Americans of the United States and the English . 
But notwithstanding these inimical feelings , the Americans derive the greater part of their manufactured commodities from England , because England supplies them at a cheaper rate than any other nation . 
Thus the increasing prosperity of America turns , notwithstanding the grudges of the Americans , to the advantage of British manufactures . 
Reason shows and experience proves that no commercial prosperity can be durable if it cannot be united , in case of need , to naval force . 
I am convinced that the dismemberment of the Union would not have the effect of diminishing the naval power of the Americans , but that it would powerfully contribute to increase it . 
Nations , as well as men , almost always betray the most prominent features of their future destiny in their earliest years . 
They are born to rule the seas , as the Romans were to conquer the world . 
My present object is to embrace the whole from one single point the remarks I shall make will be less detailed , but they will be more sure . 
I shall perceive each object less distinctly , but I shall descry the principal facts with more certainty . 
The territory now occupied or possessed by the United States of America forms about one twentieth part of the habitable earth . 
But extensive as these confines are , it must not be supposed that the Anglo American race will always remain within them indeed , it has already far overstepped them . 
France formerly possessed a territory in North America , scarcely less extensive than the whole of Europe . 
The three greatest rivers of that continent then flowed within her dominions . 
The Indian tribes which dwelt between the mouth of the St . 
Lawrence and the delta of the Mississippi were unaccustomed to any other tongue but ours and all the European settlements scattered over that immense region recalled the traditions of our country . 
Louisbourg , Montmorency , Duquesne , St . 
are words dear to France and familiar to our ears . 
But a concourse of circumstances , which it would be tedious to enumerate , m have deprived us of this magnificent inheritance . 
Wherever the French settlers were numerically weak and partially established , they have disappeared those who remain are collected on a small extent of country , and are now subject to other laws . 
The , French inhabitants of Lower Canada constitute , at the present time , the remnant of an old nation lost in the midst of a new people . 
A foreign population is increasing around them unceasingly and on all sides , which already penetrates amongst the ancient masters of the country , predominates in their cities and corrupts their language . 
m The foremost of these circumstances is , that nations which are accustomed to free institutions and municipal government are better able than any others to found prosperous colonies . 
The habit of thinking and governing for oneself is indispensable in a new country , where success necessarily depends , in a great measure , upon the individual exertions of the settlers . 
To the northwest nothing is to be met with but a few insignificant Russian settlements but to the southwest , Mexico presents a barrier to the Anglo Americans . 
Thus , the Spaniards and the Anglo Americans are , properly speaking , the only two races which divide the possession of the New World . 
Vast provinces , extending beyond the frontiers of the Union towards Mexico , are still destitute of inhabitants . 
The natives of the United States will forestall the rightful occupants of these solitary regions . 
n n This was speedily accomplished , and ere long both Texas and California formed part of the United States . 
The Russian settlements were acquired by purchase . 
The lands of the New World belong to the first occupant , and they are the natural reward of the swiftest pioneer . 
Even the countries which are already peopled will have some difficulty in securing themselves from this invasion . 
I have already alluded to what is taking place in the province of Texas . 
The lines marked out by treaties will not stop it but it will everywhere transgress these imaginary barriers . 
The geographical position of the British race in the New World is peculiarly favorable to its rapid increase . 
Above its northern frontiers the icy regions of the Pole extend and a few degrees below its southern confines lies the burning climate of the Equator . 
The Anglo Americans are , therefore , placed in the most temperate and habitable zone of the continent . 
It is generally supposed that the prodigious increase of population in the United States is posterior to their Declaration of Independence . 
But this is an error the population increased as rapidly under the colonial system as it does at the present day that is to say , it doubled in about twenty two years . 
During the war of independence , which lasted eight years , the population continued to increase without intermission in the same ratio . 
Although powerful Indian nations allied with the English existed at that time upon the western frontiers , the emigration westward was never checked . 
Whilst the enemy laid waste the shores of the Atlantic , Kentucky , the western parts of Pennsylvania , and the States of Vermont and of Maine were filling with inhabitants . 
Nor did the unsettled state of the Constitution , which succeeded the war , prevent the increase of the population , or stop its progress across the wilds . 
This may be readily understood for the fact is , that no causes are sufficiently general to exercise a simultaneous influence over the whole of so extensive a territory . 
It must not , then , be imagined that the impulse of the British race in the New World can be arrested . 
No power upon earth can close upon the emigrants that fertile wilderness which offers resources to all industry , and a refuge from all want . 
Future events , of whatever nature they may be , will not deprive the Americans of their climate or of their inland seas , of their great rivers or of their exuberant soil . 
Thus , in the midst of the uncertain future , one event at least is sure . 
, the Anglo Americans will alone cover the immense space contained between the polar regions and the tropics , extending from the coasts of the Atlantic to the shores of the Pacific Ocean . 
The territory which will probably be occupied by the Anglo Americans at some future time , may be computed to equal three quarters of Europe in extent . 
p What cause can prevent the United States from having as numerous a population in time ? o The United States already extend over a territory equal to one half of Europe . 
The area of Europe is , square leagues , and its population , , of inhabitants . 
This computation is given in French leagues , which were in use when the author wrote . 
Twenty years later , in , the superficial area of the United States had been extended to , , square miles of territory , which is about the area of Europe . 
p See Malte Brun , liv . 
In the Middle Ages , the tie of religion was sufficiently powerful to imbue all the different populations of Europe with the same civilization . 
The British of the New World have a thousand other reciprocal ties and they live at a time when the tendency to equality is general amongst mankind . 
At the present time an opposite tendency seems to prevail , and the nations seem to be advancing to unity . 
If this tendency to assimilation brings foreign nations closer to each other , it must a fortiori prevent the descendants of the same people from becoming aliens to each other . 
q This would be a population proportionate to that of Europe , taken at a mean rate of inhabitants to the square league . 
r Russia is the country in the Old World in which population increases most rapidly in proportion . 
