Translation by Sebastian Evans , . 
The High History of the Holy Graal SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY ORIGINAL TEXT Potvin , Ch . 
Perceval le Gallois ou le conte du Graal , Vol . 
The Quest for the Holy Graal . 
Contains the unfinished work Perceval . 
Malory , Sir Thomas Le Morte D'Arthur , Vol . 
INTRODUCTION This book is translated from the first volume of Perceval le Gallois ou le conte du Graal edited by M. Ch . 
Potvin for La Societe des Bibliophiles Belges' in , from the MS . 
numbered , in the library of the Dukes of Burgundy at Brussels . 
Titles and , the substance of which is fortunately preserved elsewhere . 
numbered in the City Library at Berne . 
The volume is in folio on vellum closely written in three columns to the page , and the seven leaves follow the last poem contained in it , entitled Duremart le Gallois . 
The manuscript is well known , having been lent to M. de Sainte Palaye for use in the Monuments of French History issued by the Benedictines of the Congregation of St Maur . 
Selections from the poems it contains are given in Sinner's Extraits de Poesie du XIII . 
and it is described , unfortunately without any reference to these particular leaves , by the same learned librarian in the Catalogus Codicum MSS . 
Bernensis , J. R. Sinner . 
M. Potvin has carefully collated for his edition all that is preserved of the Romance in this manuscript , comprising all the beginning of the work as far as Branch III . 
Title , about the middle , and from Branch XIX . 
Title , near the beginning , to Branch XXX . 
Title , in the middle . 
The only note of time in the book itself is contained in the declaration at the end . 
From this it appears that it was written by order of the Seingnor of Cambrein for Messire Jehan the Seingnor of Neele . 
M. Potvin , without giving any reason for so doing , assumes that this Lord of Cambrein is none other than the Bishop of Cambrai . 
These dates therefore may be regarded as defining that of the original Romance within fairly narrow limits . 
This conclusion is confirmed by other evidence . 
An early Welsh translation of the story was published with an English version and a glossary by the Rev . 
Robert Williams in the first volume of his Selections from the Hengwrt MSS . 
Originally written about the year . 
The volume , following the manuscript now in the library of W. W. E. Wynne , Esq . 
, at Peniarth , is divided into two parts . 
of the manuscript , represents the thirteenth to the seventeenth book of Sir Thomas Malory's Morte d'Arthur . 
is beautifully written on vellum , and in perfect preservation , and its date is that of Henry VI . 
, the early part of the fifteenth century . 
The orthography and style of writing agrees literally with that of the Mabinogion of the Llyvr Coch Hergest , which is of that date . 
assigns it to the sixth year of Henry I. It is mentioned by Davydd ab Gwilym , who died in . 
The book itself , moreover , is not entire . 
On page , all between Branch IX . 
Title , twenty two chapters in all , is missing . 
Again , on page , Titles in Branch XXI . 
In all , not to speak of other defects , there are fifty six whole chapters in the present book , of which there is not a word in the Welsh . 
In one matter , however , Mr Williams' English translation has stood me in good stead . 
, as I have said , the French manuscript makes default of two Titles , but almost the whole of their substance is supplied by the Welsh version . 
As the Welsh version gives a number of names both of persons and places widely differing from those in the French , it may be useful here to note the principal changes made . 
Perceval in the Welsh is called Peredur , which is said to mean steel suit . 
Perceval's father , Alain li Gros , is in the Welsh Earl Evrawg , and his sister Dindrane , Danbrann . 
King Arthur is Emperor Arthur , his Queen Guenievre , Gwenhwyvar , and their son Lohot , Lohawt or Llacheu . 
Of places , Cardoil is Caerlleon on Usk , Pannenoisance , Penvoisins Tintagel , Tindagoyl and Avalon , Avallach . 
This seems to be proved beyond doubt by a passage in the History of Fulke Fitz Warine , originally written apparently between the years and . 
Twelve sharp teeth shall he have , six below and six above . 
He shall have so fierce a look that he shall chase the Leopard forth of the White Launde , so much force shall he have and great virtue . 
And he , on sleep , cried out so loud that King Arthur hath heard him and awakened from sleep . 
And when Kahuz was awake , he put his hand to his side . 
There hath he found the knife that had smitten him through . 
SO TELLETH US THE GRAAL , THE BOOK OF THE HOLY VESSEL . 
There the King Arthur recovered his bounty and his valour when he had lost all his chivalry and his virtue . 
From this country issued forth the Wolf as saith Merlin the Wise , and the twelve sharp teeth have we known by his shield . 
He bore a shield indented as the heralds have devised . 
In the shield are twelve teeth of gules and argent . 
By the Leopard may be known and well understood King John , for he bore in his shield the leopards of beaten gold . 
The story of Kahuz or Chaus here indicated by the historian is told at length in the opening chapters of the present work and , so far as is known , nowhere else . 
The inference is therefore unavoidable that we have here The Graal , the Book of the Holy Vessel to which the biographer of Fulke refers . 
The use , moreover , of the definite article shows that the writer held this book to be conclusive authority on the subject . 
He nevertheless distinguishes this particular story as The Graal , a way of speaking he would scarce have adopted had he known of any other Graals of equal or nearly equal authority . 
in the same manner , in superfluous verification of the then accepted truism that King Arthur was at one time Lord of Great Britain . 
This , however , I have not hitherto been able to obtain from any person so as to read it with attention . 
As soon as I can do so , I will translate into Latin such passages as are more useful and more likely to be true . 
leaves no doubt that Helinand here refers to this Book of the Graal , which cannot therefore be of a later date than that at which he made this entry in his Chronicle . 
The date , therefore , at which Helinand's Chronicle was written determines approximately that of the Book of the Graal . 
As a matter of fact they had not then even begun . 
At that time Helinand was still a courtly troubadour , and had not yet entered on the monastic career during which his Chronicle was compiled . 
He was certainly living as late as , and preached a sermon , which assuredly shows no signs of mental decrepitude , in that year at a synod in Toulouse . 
He also diligently digested into a certain huge volume a Chronicle from the beginning of the world down to his own time . 
But in truth this work was dissipated and dispersed in such sort that it is nowhere to be found entire . 
From this work , however , as far as I have been able to find it , I have inserted many passages in this work of mine own also . 
It will thus be seen that about , Helinand became a monk at Froid mont , and it is exceedingly improbable that any portion of his Chronicle was written before that date . 
so that it is certain Helinand wrote the last part of his Chronicle not later than the last mentioned year . 
On the first page of the Romance , Helinand read that an Angel had appeared to a certain hermit in Britain and revealed to him the history of the Holy Graal . 
This , of course , is pure guesswork , but the fact remains that the Chronicle was written in or about , and the Book of the Graal not long before it . 
The name of the author is nowhere recorded . 
With these testimonies to its age and genuineness , I commend the Book of the Graal to all who love to read of King Arthur and his knights of the Table Round . 
Sebastian Evans , Coombe Lea , Bickley , Kent ENDNOTES vols . 
See also Birch Hirschfeld , Die Gralsage , p . 
L'histoire de Foulkes Fitz Warin . 
F. Michel , Paris , p . 
T. Wright , London , p . 
was first privately printed for the late Sir T. Duffus Hardy from a transcript by A. Berbrugger . 
Le Roman de Ham , in the Appendix to F. Michel's Histoire des Ducs de Normandie . 
de France , , pp . 
The former part of the passage is quoted with due acknowledgment by Vincent of Beauvais , Spec . 
Vincent , however , spells the French word grail , and , by turning Helinand's nec into nune , makes him say that the French work can now easily be found complete . 
Vincent finished his Speculum Historialz in B. xxi . 
, printed in Minge , u . 
It is wholly irrelevant to the topics discussed at the former gathering , while it is one continued commentary on the business transacted at the latter . 
See also Dom Brial , Hist . 
de la France , xviii . 
Potvin , P. le G. ii . 
THE HIGH HISTORY OF THE HOLY GRAAL BRANCH I. INCIPIT . 
TITLE I. The High Book of the Graal beginneth in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost . 
These three Persons are one substance , which is God , and of God moveth the High Story of the Graal . 
And all they that hear it ought to understand it , and to forget all the wickednesses that they have in their hearts . 
For right profitable shall it be to all them that shall hear it of the heart . 
Good Knight was he without fail , for he was chaste and virgin of his body and hardy of heart and puissant , and so were his conditions without wickedness . 
Good knight was he of right , for he was of the lineage of Joseph of Abarimacie . 
Of this lineage was the Good Knight for whose sake is this High History treated . 
He that was head of the lineage on his father's side was named Nichodemus . 
Gais li Gros of the Hermit's Cross was father of Alain li Gros . 
This Alain had eleven brethren , right good knights , like as he was himself . 
And none of them all lived in his knighthood but twelve years , and they all died in arms for their great hardiment in setting forward of the Law that was made new . 
All these died in arms in the service of the Holy Prophet that had renewed the Law by His death , and smote His enemies to the uttermost of their power . 
And he had in his court the Table Round that was garnished of the best knights in the world . 
All the other princes had slackened of their well doing for that they saw King Arthur maintain so feebly . 
Queen Guenievre was so sorrowful thereof that she knew not what counsel to take with herself , nor how she might so deal as to amend matters so God amended them not . 
From this time beginneth the history . 
It was one Ascension Day that the King was at Cardoil . 
He was risen from meat and went through the hall from one end to the other , and looked and saw the Queen that was seated at a window . 
The King went to sit beside her , and looked at her in the face and saw that the tears were falling from her eyes . 
Certes , Lady , I do not . 
Sir , saith she , You are right . 
Now every day are so few therein that much shame have I thereof , nor no more do no adventures befal therein . 
Wherefore great fear have I lest God hath put you into forgetfulness . 
Certes , Lady , saith the King , No will have I to do largesse nor aught that turneth to honour . 
Rather is my desire changed into feebleness of heart . 
And by this know I well that I lose my knights and the love of my friends . 
Lady , saith the King , And willingly will I go , forasmuch as that you say have I heard well witnessed in many places where I have been . 
Sir , saith she , The place is right perilous and the chapel right adventurous . 
But the most worshipful hermit that is in the Kingdom of Wales hath his dwelling beside the chapel , nor liveth he now any longer for nought save only the glory of God . 
Lady , saith the King , It will behove me go thither all armed and without knights . 
Sir , saith she , You may well take with you one knight and a squire . 
Lady , saith the King , That durst not I , for the place is perilous , and the more folk one should take thither , the fewer adventures there should he find . 
Lady , saith he to the Queen , This one will I take with me and you think well . 
Sir , saith she , It pleaseth me well , for I have heard much witness to his valour . 
The King calleth the squire , and he cometh and kneeleth down before him . 
For I would be moving at the time I tell you , and yourself with me without more company . 
Sir , saith the squire , At your pleasure . 
And the evening drew on , and the King and Queen go to bed . 
When they had eaten in hall , the knights went to their hostels . 
The squire was lying down in such sort as I have told you , and in the first sleep that he slept , seemed him the King had gone without him . 
The squire thought that the hoof marks on the way had come to an end and so thought that the King had alighted there or hard by there . 
He thought in his heart that he would go towards the chapel , for he supposed that the King would have entered to pray there . 
He went thitherward and alighted . 
When the squire was alighted , he tied up his hackney and entered into the chapel . 
And he held a great sharp knife in his hand with two edges as it seemed him . 
For you are carrying off thence the candlestick of gold that was in honour of the knight that lieth in the chapel dead . 
By my faith , saith the other , Right dearly shall you pay for it , and you yield it not up forthwith . 
The King asketh him what aileth him , and he telleth him all in such wise as he had dreamed it . 
He draweth it forth and showeth it to the King . 
The King showeth it to the Queen . 
Sir , saith the squire , Draw not forth the knife of my body until that I be shriven . 
The King sent for one of his own chaplains that made the squire confess and do his houselling right well . 
The King himself draweth forth the knife of the body , and the soul departed forthwith . 
The King made do his service right richly and his shrouding and burial . 
Ywain li Aoutres that was father to the squire was right sorrowful of the death of his son . 
V. King Arthur armed himself in the morning , as I told you and began to tell , to go to the chapel of S. Augustine . 
Said the Queen to him . 
Lady , saith he , May God remember it . 
His destrier was brought to the mounting stage , and the King mounted thereon all armed . 
Messire Ywain li Aoutres lent him his shield and spear . 
The Queen was at the windows of the hall , and as many as five and twenty knights were all come to the mounting stage . 
With that the knights hold their peace , and King Arthur goeth away a great pace . 
And he entereth into a great forest adventurous , and rideth the day long until he cometh about evensong into the thick of the forest . 
And he espied a little house beside a little chapel , and it well seemed him to be a hermitage . 
And it seemed him that there was a strife in the chapel . 
The ones were weeping so tenderly and sweetly as it were angels , and the other spake so harshly as it were fiends . 
The King heard such voices in the chapel and marvelled much what it might be . 
He findeth a door in the little house that openeth on a little cloister whereby one goeth to the chapel . 
The King is gone thither and entereth into the little minster , and looketh everywhere but seeth nought there , save the images and the crucifixes . 
And he supposeth not that the strife of these voices cometh of them . 
The voices ceased as soon as he was within . 
He marvelleth how it came that this house and hermitage were solitary , and what had become of the hermit that dwelt therein . 
The King was before the coffin a long space , and looked right fainly on the hermit , for well it seemed him that he had been of a good life . 
The night was fully come , but within was a brightness of light as if a score of candles were lighted . 
He had a mind to abide there until that the good man should have passed away . 
The King departed , that would willingly have remained there , and so returned back into the little house , and sate him down on a seat whereon the hermit wont to sir . 
And he heareth that the devils are distraining on the hermit's soul , and that judgment will presently be given in their favour , whereof make they great joy . 
King Arthur is grieved in his heart when he heareth that the angels' voices are stilled . 
The King is so heavy , that no desire hath he neither to eat nor to drink . 
True , Lady , say the devils , But longer had he served us than he hath served you and your Son . 
For forty years or more hath he been a murderer and robber in this forest , whereas in this hermitage but five years hath he been . 
And now you Wish to thieve him from us . 
And the angels take it and begin to sing for joy Te Deum laudamus . 
And the Holy Lady leadeth them and goeth her way along with them . 
Josephus maketh remembrance of this history and telleth us that this worthy man was named Calixtus . 
King Arthur was in the little house beside the chapel , and had heard the voice of the sweet Mother of God and the angels . 
Great joy had he , and was right glad of the good man's soul that was borne thence into Paradise . 
The King had slept right little the night and was all armed . 
The damsel was of great beauty and full seemly clad . 
The King turneth thitherward and so saluteth her and saith Damsel , saith he , God give you joy and good adventure . 
Is this then S. Augustine's chapel ? saith the King . 
Damsel , saith the King , Please God , you shall see me repair back thence . 
Certes , saith the damsel , Thereof should I be ! right fain , for then should I ask you tidings at leisure of him that I am seeking . 
Thitherward goeth he and alighteth , and it seemeth him that the hermit is apparelled to sing the mass . 
Sore ashamed is the King thereof . 
Howbeit , he beholdeth an image of Our Lord that was there within and crieth Him of mercy right sweetly , and looketh toward the altar . 
On the left hand side , was a Lady so fair that all the beauties of the world might not compare them with her beauty . 
King Arthur heareth the words and seeth the beauty of the Lady and of the Child , and marvelleth much of this that She should call Him her Father and her Son . 
And it is come down upon the altar . 
King Arthur seeth it who marvelleth him much thereof . 
Right sore did King Arthur marvel him thereof , but little right would he have had to marvel had he known the reason . 
And when the Child was offered him , he set Him upon the altar and thereafter began his sacrament . 
And King Arthur set him on his knees before the chapel and began to pray to God and to beat his breast . 
And he looketh toward the altar and thinketh to see the figure of the man , and seeth that it is changed into the shape of the Child that he had seen tofore . 
When the mass was sung , the voice of a holy angel said Ite , missa est . 
The Son took the Mother by the hand , and they evanished forth of the chapel with the greatest company and the fairest that might ever be seen . 
The flame that was come down through the window went away with this company . 
When the hermit had done his service and was divested of the arms of God , he went to King Arthur that was still without the chapel . 
King Arthur entered into the chapel without any hindrance . 
Sir , saith the hermit to the King , I know you well , as did I also King Uther Pendragon your father . 
On account of your sins and your deserts might you not enter here while mass was being sung . 
Nor will you to morrow , save you shall first have made amends of that you have misdone towards God and towards the saint that is worshipped herewithin . 
Wherefore shall right sore mishap betide you and you set nor back your doing to the point whereat you began . 
For your court was the sovran of all courts and the most adventurous , whereas now is it least of worth . 
Sir , saith King Arthur , To amend me have I come hither , and to be better counselled than I have been . 
Well do I see that the place is most holy , and I beseech you that you pray God that He counsel me and I will do my endeavour herein to amend me . 
Truly , saith the hermit , He that hath been bad for three years out of forty , he hath not been wholly good . 
Sir , saith the King , You speak truth . 
The hermit departeth and so commendeth him to God . 
And the spear was somewhat thick near the point and burned with a great flame , foul and hideous , and the flame came down as far as over the knight's fist . 
He setteth his spear in rest and thinketh to smite the King , but the King swerveth aside and the other passeth beyond . 
Sir knight , wherefor hate you me ? Of right ought I not to love you , saith the knight . 
Wherefore ? saith the King . 
For this , that you have had my brother's candlestick that was foully stolen from him ! Know you then who I am ? saith the King . 
Yea , saith the knight You are the King Arthur that aforetime were good and now are evil . 
Wherefore I defy you as my mortal enemy . 
He draweth him back so that his onset may be the weightier . 
The King seeth that he may not depart without a stour . 
He setteth his spear in rest when he seeth the other come towards him with his own spear all burning . 
The King smiteth his horse with his spurs as hard as he may , and meeteth the knight with his spear and the knight him . 
And they melled together so stoutly that the spears bent without breaking , and both twain are shifted in their saddles and lose their stirrups . 
Either draweth away from other and they take their breath . 
The Black Knight is not minded to let King Arthur go so soon , but rather cometh toward him a great career . 
The King seeth him come toward him and so covereth him of his shield for fear of the flame . 
The King receiveth him on the point of his spear and smiteth him with so sore a shock that he maketh him bend backward over his horse croup . 
The King was rejoiced not a whit , and looked at the spear that was quenched thereof and burned no longer . 
Sir , saith the knight , I cry you mercy . 
Never would my spear have been quenched of its burning , save it were bathed in your blood . 
And they come with great ado toward the knight that lay dead in the midst of the launde . 
King Arthur was about to issue forth , when the damsel that he had left under the tree cometh forward to meet him . 
Sir , saith she , For God's sake , return back and fetch me the head of the knight that lieth there dead . 
The King looketh back , and seeth the great peril and the multitude of knights that are there all armed . 
Ha , damsel , saith he , You are minded to slay me . 
Now God grant you be not the most churlish . 
Ha , damsel , I am right sore wounded in the arm whereon I hold my shield . 
Sir , saith she , I know it well , nor never may you be heal thereof save you bring me the head of the knight . 
Damsel , he saith , I will essay it whatsoever may befal me thereof . 
And he seeth that the last knight beareth on the point of his spear the head . 
The King goeth after him a great gallop and crieth out to him Ha , Sir knight , abide and speak to me ! What is your pleasure ? saith the knight . 
I will give it you , saith the knight , on condition . 
What condition ? saith the King . 
That you tell me who slew the knight whose head I carry that you ask of me . 
May I not otherwise have it ? saith the King . 
In no wise , saith he . 
Then will I tell you , saith the King . 
Know of a very truth that King Arthur slew him . 
And where is he ? saith the knight . 
Seek him until you shall have found him , saith King Arthur , For I have told you the truth thereof . 
Willingly , saith the knight . 
He lowereth his spear and the King taketh the head . 
The knight had a horn at his neck . 
He setteth it to his mouth and soundeth a blast right loud . 
And the knights come presently to him that had given the head to the King and ask him wherefore he hath sounded the horn . 
King Arthur is issued forth of the bar , and cometh to the maiden that is waiting for him and presenteth her the head . 
Sir , saith the damsel , Gramercy . 
Damsel , saith he , With a good will ! Sir , saith the damsel , You may well alight , for nought have you to fear on this side the bar . 
With that , the King alighteth . 
Sir , saith she , Do off your habergeon heedfully and I will bind up the wound in your arm , for of none may you be made whole save of me only . 
Sir , saith she , Never would you have been whole save by the blood of this Black Knight . 
Wherefore Perlesvax ? saith the King . 
The lad was right comely and right gentle and began to go by the forests and launch his javelins , Welsh fashion , at hart and hind . 
His father and his mother loved him much , and one day they were come forth of their hold , whereunto the forest was close anigh , to enjoy them . 
Sir , saith the damsel to the King , The lad asked his father and mother what man lay within the coffin . 
Yet natheless hath not the coffin removed itself for none . 
She telleth the lad that he had eleven uncles on his father's side that had all been slain in arms , and not one of them lived knight but twelve years . 
Sir , saith the damsel to the King , When that the father had thus spoken to the lad , they returned together to the castle . 
He left of tracking the stag to look on at the melly and saw that the Red Knight was conquering the White . 
He launched one of his javelins at the Red Knight so hard that he pierced his habergeon and made it pass through the heart . 
Sir , the lad brought the destrier home to his father and mother , and right grieved were they when they heard the tidings of the knight he had slain . 
And right were they , for thereof did sore trouble come to them thereafter . 
Sir , the squire departed from the house of his father and mother and came to the court of King Arthur . 
Right gladly did the King make him knight when he knew his will , and afterward he departed from the land and went to seek adventure in every kingdom . 
Now is he the Best Knight that is in the world . 
So go I to seek him , and full great joy shall I have at heart and I may find him . 
Sir , and you should meet him by any adventure in any of these forests , he beareth a red shield with a white hart . 
Damsel , saith the King , And God grant me to meet him , right fain shall I be thereof , and right well will I set forth your message . 
Sir , saith she , Now that I have told you him that I seek , it is your turn to tell me your name . 
Damsel , saith the King , Willingly . 
They that know me call me Arthur . 
Arthur ? Have you indeed such name ? Yea , damsel , saith he . 
Damsel , saith the King , Hereof may he well be sorry , but at the beginning I have heard say he did right well . 
Damsel , saith the King , A man is not good by his name , but by his heart . 
You say true , saith the damsel , But for the King's name have I despite of yours . 
And whitherward are you going ? I shall go to Cardoil , where I shall find King Arthur when I shall come thither . 
Go to , then , and bestir ! saith she . 
The story speaketh no more here of other adventure that befel King Arthur in his returning nor on his arriving . 
Anyway , he hath ridden so long that he is come back to Cardoil . 
The Queen and the knights made great feast of him and great joy . 
The King was alighted on the mounting stage and went up into the hall and made him be disarmed . 
And he showed the Queen the wound that he had on his arm , that had been right great and painful , but it was healing full fairly . 
Sir , saith the Queen , Sore pain and travail have you had . 
Lady , in such wise behoveth worshipful man to suffer in order that he may have honour , for hardly shall none without travail come to honour . 
Sir , saith the queen , Now may you well know how meet it is that a man high and rich and puissant should have great shame of himself when he becometh evil . 
Sir , saith she , Right joyous ought you to be that your Saviour hath had you in remembrance . 
Now , therefore , fulfil His commandment . 
Certes , Lady , so will I do . 
For never had none better desire of well doing than have I as at this time , nor of honour nor of largesse . 
Sir , saith she , God be praised thereof . 
Now beginneth here the second branch of the Holy Graal the name of the Father , and of the Son , and of the Holy Ghost . 
TITLE I King Arthur was at Cardoil with the Queen and right few knights . 
By God's pleasure , the wish and the will had come back to him to win honour and to do largesse as most he might . 
Wherefore all began now to marvel whence his new desire had come . 
But neither Messire Gawain nor Lancelot came thither on that day . 
But all the other came that were then on live . 
The day was fair and clear and the air fresh , and the hall was wide and high and garnished of good knights in great plenty . 
The cloths were spread on the tables whereof were great plenty in the hall . 
Kay the Seneschal and Messire Ywain the son of King Urien served that day at the tables at meat , and five and twenty knights beside . 
And Lucan the Butler served the golden cup before the King . 
The sun shone through the windows everywhere amidst the hall that was strown of flowers and rushes and sweet herbs and gave out a smell like as had it been sprinkled of balm . 
And it was all loaded of costly stones that flamed like fire . 
The third damsel came afoot with her kirtle tucked up like a running footman and she had in her hand a whip wherewith she drove the two steeds . 
Each of these twain was fairer than the first , but the one afoot surpassed both the others in beauty . 
The first cometh before the King , there where he sitteth at meat with the Queen . 
Damsel , saith the King , Gladly would I have it so . 
Damsel , saith the King , The shield and the brachet will we keep full safely , and right heartily we thank you that you have deigned to bring them hither . 
Sir , saith the damsel , I have not yet told you all that I have in charge to deliver . 
The best King that liveth on earth and the most loyal and the most righteous , sendeth you greeting of whom is sore sorrow for that he hath fallen into a grievous languishment . 
And I will tell you , saith she . 
This languishment is come upon him through one that harboured in his hostel , to whom the most Holy Graal appeared . 
Sir , I myself have good right to plain me of the knight , and I will show you wherefore . 
She lifteth the rich hat from her head and showeth the King and Queen and the knights in the hall her head all bald without hair . 
Sir , even yet have you not seen the sore mischief that hath befallen thereof . 
There is without this hall a car that three white harts have drawn hither , and lightly may you send to see how rich it is . 
I tell you that the traces are of silk and the axletrees of gold , and the timber of the car is ebony . 
King Fisherman sendeth you word that this loss I hath befallen of him that demanded not unto whom one serveth of the Graal . 
Sir , send without to see the costliness and fashion of the car . 
The King sent Kay the Seneschal to see . 
He looked straitly thereat within and without and thereafter returned to the King . 
Sir , saith he , Never beheld I car so rich , and there be three harts withal that draw the car , the tallest and fattest one might ever see . 
But and you will be guided by me , you will take the foremost , for he is scarce so far , and so might you bid make right good collops thereof . 
Avoid there , Kay ! saith the King . 
Messire Kay may say whatsoever him pleaseth , but well know I that you will pay no heed to his talk . 
Sir , saith the damsel , Command that the shield be hung on this column and that the brachet be put in the Queen's chamber with the maidens . 
We will go on our way , for here have we been long enough . 
And the damsel taketh her leave and turneth again , and the King commendeth her to God . 
Then set she her hat again upon her head . 
Hereupon the story is silent of King Arthur , and turneth again to speak of the three damsels and the car that was drawn by the three white harts . 
They are entered into the forest and ride on right busily . 
When they had left the castle some seven leagues Welsh behind them , they saw a knight coming toward them on the way they had to go . 
The knight sat on a tall horse , lean and bony . 
His habergeon was all rusty and his shield pierced in more than a dozen places , and the colour thereon was so fretted away that none might make out the cognizance thereof . 
And a right thick spear bore he in his hand . 
When he came anigh the damsel , he saluted her right nobly . 
Fair welcome , damsel , to you and your company . 
Go you thither , sir knight , saith the damsel , to see the King and the Queen and the knights that are there ? Nay , not so ! saith he . 
Whitherward have you now emprised your way ? saith the damsel . 
To the land of King Fisherman , and God allow me . 
Sir , saith she , Tell me your name and bide awhile beside me . 
The knight draweth bridle and the damsels and the car come to a stay . 
Damsel , saith he , Well behoveth me tell you my name . 
Messire Gawain am I called , King Arthur's nephew . 
What ? are you Messire Gawain ? my heart well told me as much . 
Yea , damsel , saith he , Gawain am I. God be praised thereof , for so good knight as are you may well go see the rich King Fisherman . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , Willingly , at your pleasure . 
He returneth with the damsel through the midst of the forest that was tall and leafy and little haunted of folk . 
But and you be so good knight as men say , betimes will she have done her penance . 
How so ? saith Gawain . 
I will tell you , saith she . 
And so you also make not demand thereof , then will it behove us suffer sore annoy until such time as the Good knight shall come and shall have achieved the Graal . 
For on account of him that first was there and made not the demand , are all the lands in sorrow and warfare , and the good King Fisherman is yet in languishment . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , Right loathly is this forest and right hideous . 
Goeth it on far like this ? Sir . 
saith she , For nine leagues Welsh goeth it on the same , but we shall pass not through the whole thereof . 
Messire Gawain ooketh from time to time on the damsel that cometh arbor , and sore it irketh him that he may not amend her estate . 
He seeth a water come down from the head of a mountain , foul and horrible and black , that went amidst the castle roaring so loud that it seemed to be thunder . 
Messire Gawain seeth the insolence that the knights have wrought , and right great shame hath he of himself that he hath not moved withal . 
Messire Gawain , saith the damsel , Now may you know how little would your force have availed you herein . 
Damsel , an evil castle is this where folk are robbed on such wise . 
Damsel , so also have I , saith Messire Gawain , For then by your leave would I turn me again . 
Not so , sir , but and you shall come beyond I the castle , then will I teach you the way whereby you ought to go . 
With that they go toward the castle all together . 
Sir knight , saith he to Messire Gawain , I pray you bide . 
What is your pleasure ? You must needs joust with me , saith he and conquer this shield , or otherwise I shall conquer you . 
Who , then , was he ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Judas Machabee was he , and he it was that first wrought how by one bird to take another . 
You say true , saith Messire Gawain A good knight was he . 
Therefore right joyful may you be , saith he , and you may conquer the same , for your own is the poorest and most battered that ever saw I borne by knight . 
For hardly may a man know the colour thereof . 
Damsel , saith the knight , No need is here of long pleading . 
Needs must he joust with me , for him do I defy . 
Saith Messire Gawain , I hear well that you say . 
He draweth him back and taketh his career and the knight likewise , and they come together as fast as their horses may carry them , spear in rest . 
He taketh the shield from his neck and holdeth it to him . 
And of this shield were vanquished all they that be in prison in this castle . 
Messire Gawain taketh the shield that was right fair and rich . 
Sir , saith the knight , Now give me yours , for you will not bear two shields . 
You say true , saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir knight , saith Messire Gawain , No good you wish me , according to that this damsel saith . 
And now ought I to be right well pleased of your coming , sith that you have set me free of the sorest trouble that ever knight had . 
What is the trouble ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , saith he , I will tell you . 
By my head , saith Messire Gawain , Now am I gladder of my conquest than I was before . 
God grant you do well ! saith Messire Gawain . 
Messire Gawain , saith the Damsel of the Car , give me your shield that the knight would fain have carried off . 
Willingly , damsel , saith he . 
The damsel that went afoot taketh the shield and setteth it in the car . 
Messire Gawain , saith the Damsel of the Car , the knight is shamed and there cast in prison another time . 
Now haste , Messire Gawain ! for now may you go ! With that they all set forward again upon their way together , and leave the castle an English league behind . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , When it shall please you , I shall have your leave to go . 
Sir , saith she , God be guard of your body , and right great thanks of your convoy . 
Lady , saith he , My service is always ready at your command . 
Sir , saith the damsel , Gramercy , and your own way see you there by yonder great cross at the entrance of yonder forest . 
And beyond that , will you find the fairest forest and most delightsome when you shall have passed through this that sore is wearisome . 
Messire Gawain turneth him to go , and the damsel afoot crieth out to him Sir , not so heedful are you as I supposed . 
Messire Gawain turneth his horse's head as he that was startled Wherefore say you so , damsel ? saith he . 
And no greater heed will you take at the court of the rich King Fisherman . 
Sweet , my friend , saith the Damsel of the Car , blame not Messire Gawain only , but King Arthur before him and all the knights that were in the court . 
For not one of them all that were there was so heedful as to ask me . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , I durst not press you further . 
With that the Damsel departeth , and Messire Gawain setteth him forward again on the way that she had taught him . 
Here beginneth another branch of the Graal in the name of the Father , and in the name of the Son , and in the name of the Holy Ghost . 
And he rideth a great pace , but sore abashed is he of that the damsel had said to him , and misdoubteth him but he shall have blame thereof in many places . 
He rode hard the day long till that it was evensong and the sun was about to set . 
A damsel sate under the tree and held a mule by the reins and at the saddle bow had she the head of a knight hanging . 
And Messire Gawain cometh thitherward and alighteth . 
Damsel , saith he , God give you good adventure ! Sir , saith she , And you always . 
Think you he will tell you them and he knoweth any ? Yea , sir , I think so , according to that I have been told . 
And Messire Gawain looketh at him in wonderment . 
Sir , saith he , Meseemeth you are not of more than forty years . 
That know I well of a truth , saith the hermit , and Messire Gawain taketh off the saddles and bethinketh him more of the damsel's mule than of his own horse . 
And the hermit taketh Messire Gawain by the hand and the damsel and leadeth them into the chapel . 
And the place was right fair . 
Sir , saith the hermit to Messire Gawain , You will disarm you not , saith he , for this forest is passing adventurous , and no worshipful man behoveth be disgarnished . 
He goeth for his spear and for his shield and setteth them within the chapel . 
He setteth before them such meat as he hath , and when they have eaten giveth them to drink of the spring . 
Sir , saith the damsel , Of a knight that I go seek am I come to ask you tidings . 
Who is the knight ? saith the hermit . 
Sir , he is the Chaste Knight of most holy lineage . 
Sir , saith she , Will you tell me no more of him , nor none other witting ? In no wise , saith the hermit . 
And you , Messire Gawain ? saith she . 
Damsel , saith he , As fainly would I see him as you , but none find I that may tell me tidings of him . 
And the damsel of the Car , Sir , have you seen her ? Yea , lady , saith he , It is but just now sithence that I left her . 
Carried she still her arm slung at her neck ? Yea , saith Messire Gawain , in such wise she carried it . 
Of a long while , saith the damsel , hath she borne it thus . 
Sir , saith the hermit , how are you named ? Sir , saith he , Gawain am I called , King Arthur's nephew . 
Thereof I love you the better , saith the hermit . 
Sir , saith the damsel , You are of kindred to the worst King that is . 
Of what King speak you ? saith Messire Gawain . 
I speak , saith she , of King Arthur , through whom is all the world made worser , for he began doing well and now hath become evil . 
For hatred of him hate I a knight that found me nigh S. Augustine's Chapel , and yet was he the comeliest knight that saw I ever . 
He slew a knight within the bar right hardily . 
I asked him for the head of the knight and he went back for the same and set himself in sore peril . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , You may say your pleasure . 
You are right , saith the damsel , to come to his rescue , for that he is your uncle , but your rescue will scarce avail him and he deliver not himself . 
Sir , saith the hermit to Messire Gawain , The damsel will say her pleasure . 
May God defend King Arthur , for his father made me knight . 
Therefore is it that I and all that serve him are so youthful of seeming . 
And would you fain go thither ? Sir , saith Messire Gawain , It is the most wish that I have . 
With that , they left of talking , and the hermit led Messire Gawain into his house to rest , and the damsel abode still in the chapel . 
And when she had prayed of a long space she ariseth , and Messire Gawain biddeth her God give her good day , and she returneth his salute . 
Damsel , saith he , Meseemeth you are not over joyous . 
Sir , saith she , I have right , for now am I nigh unto my desolation , sith that I may not find the Good Knight . 
Then will I seek the Damsel of the Car and so shall I go in safer through the forest . 
With that the hermit had begun the mass and Messire Gawain and the damsel heard it . 
When mass was sung , Messire Gawain took leave of the hermit and the damsel also . 
And Messire Gawain goeth one way and the damsel the other , and either biddeth other to God . 
And he rideth until the hour of noon , and cometh into the fulness of the forest and seeth under a tree a squire alighted of a horse of the chase . 
Whose is the forest ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , it belongeth to the best knight in the world . 
Can you tell me tidings of him ? He ought to bear a shield banded azure and argent with a red cross thereon and a boss of gold . 
I say that he is good knight , but little call have I to praise him , for he slew my father in this forest with a javelin . 
Wherefore no leisure have you to tarry , for it is high noon already . 
So Messire Gawain saluteth the squire and goeth a great pace as he that knoweth neither highway nor byway save only as adventure may lead him . 
And the forest pleaseth him well for that it is so fair and that he seeth the deer pass by before him in great herds . 
He rode on until it drew toward evensong at a corner of the forest . 
The evening was fair and calm and the sun was about to set . 
And a score league Welsh had he ridden sithence that he parted from the squire , and sore he misdoubted him that he should find no hold . 
And when the squire seeth him , and hath drawn somewhat anigh , he saluteth him right nobly . 
Sir , right welcome may you be ! Good adventure may you have ! saith Messire Gawain . 
Fair sweet friend , what is this castle here , sir ? Sir , it is the castle of the Widow Lady . 
What is the name thereof Camelot and it belonged to Alain li Gros , that was a right loyal knight and worshipful man . 
He is dead this long time , and my Lady hath remained without succour and without counsel . 
Wherefore is the castle warred upon of them that would fain reave her thereof by force . 
The Lord of the Moors and another knight are they that war upon her and would fain reave her of this castle as they have reft he of seven other already . 
Greatly desireth she the return of her son , for no counsel hath she save only of her one daughter and of five old knights that help her to guard the castle . 
Gramercy , saith Messire Gawain , right well shall my name be known or ever I depart from the castle . 
The squire goeth his way a great pace , and Messire Gawain tided softly at a walk for he had yet a long way to go . 
And he found a chapel that stood between the forest and the castle , and it was builded upon four columns of marble and within was a right fair sepulchre . 
The chapel had no fence of any kind about it so that he seeth the coffin within full clearly , and Messire Gawain bideth awhile to look thereon . 
And the squire entered into the castle and hath made the bridge be lowered and the door opened . 
He alighteth and is come into the hall when was the Widow Lady and her daughter . 
And what name hath he ? saith the Lady . 
Lady , he told me you should know it well or ever he depart from this castle . 
Lady , saith he , Welcome may you be , you and your company . 
The Lady answereth never a word until that they are come to the tomb . 
When she findeth it not open she falleth down in a swoon . 
And Messire Gawain is sore afraid when he seeth it . 
The Lady cometh back out of her swoon and breaketh out into great lamentation . 
The Lady riseth up and taketh Messire Gawain by the hand . 
Sir , saith she , What is your name ? Lady , saith he , I am called Gawain , King Arthur's nephew . 
Sir , saith she , You shall be he that is welcome both for the sake of my son and for your own sake . 
The Lady biddeth a squire lead his horse into the castle and carry his shield and spear . 
Then they enter into the castle and lead Messire Gawain into the hall , and make disarm him . 
After that , they fetch him water to wash his hands and his face , for he was distained of the rust of his habergeon . 
The Lady maketh apparel him in a rich robe of silk and gold , and furred of ermine . 
The Widow Lady cometh forth of her chamber and maketh Messire Gawain sit beside her . 
What name hath he ? Sir , saith she , His name in right baptism is Perceval , and a right comely squire was he when he departed hence . 
Now as at this time is it said that he is the comeliest knight on live and the most hardy and the cleanest of all wickedness . 
Within the se'nnight thereafter he went away , nor never once have I seen him sithence , albeit a full seven year hath passed already . 
For my brothers are too far away from me , and King Pelles of the Lower Folk hath renounced his land for God's sake and entered into a hermitage . 
But the King of Castle Mortal hath in him as much of wickedness and felony as these twain have in them of good , and enough thereof have they . 
Sir , saith the Widow Lady's daughter , You say true , and the Best Knight is he of the world . 
Sir , saith the Lady , Behoveth all good knights go see the rich King Fisherman . 
Will you not therefore go ? Lady , saith Messire Gawain , Yea , that will I , so speedily as I may , for not elsewhither have I emprised my way . 
But take heed , Messire Gawain , that you be better mindful than was the knight . 
Lady , saith Messire Gawain , I shall do as God shall teach me . 
So they alighted and made great joy of Messire Gawain when they knew who he was . 
X. When the meat was ready they sate to eat , and full plenteously were they provided and right well were they served . 
Thereupon , behold , cometh the squire that had opened the door for Messire Gawain , and kneeleth before the Widow Lady . 
And what tidings ? saith she . 
Lady , there is to be a right great assembly of tourney in the valleys that aforetime were ours . 
Already have they spread the Welsh booths , and thither are come these two that are warring upon you and great store other knights . 
Certes , Lady , saith he , Herein do they great dishonour and a sin . 
When the table was removed the damsel fell at Messire Gawain's feet , weeping . 
He raiseth her forthwith and saith to her , Damsel , herein do you ill . 
For God's sake , Sir , take pity on my Lady mother and me ! Certes , damsel , great pity have I of you . 
Sir , now shall it be seen in this strait whether you be good knight , for good is the knighthood that doeth well for God's sake . 
The Widow Lady and her daughter go into the chamber , and Messire Gawain's bed was made in the midst of the hall . 
So he went and lay down as did also the five knights . 
All the night was Messire Gawain in much thought . 
Yea , Sir , say they , and you be going thither . 
In faith , thither verily will I go ! saith Messire Gawain . 
The knights are armed forthwith , and their horses brought and Messire Gawain's , and he goeth to take leave of the Widow Lady and her daughter . 
But great joy make they of this that they have heard say that he will go with their knights to the assembly . 
Messire Gawain and the five knights mounted and issued forth of the castle and rode a great gallop before a forest . 
They are garnished of tall forests on one hand and on the other , and there are high rocks in the midst with wild deer among . 
A wrong is it and a sin ! saith Messire Gawain . 
And they see the tents stretched on the one hand and on another . 
And Messire Gawain bideth , and the five knights under a tree , and see the knights assembling on one hand and on another . 
And the five come after at a great gallop and each overthroweth his own , and greatly pride they themselves of Messire Gawain . 
Chaos the Red seeth Messire Gawain but knoweth him not . 
They show him the Lord of the Moors that was coming with a full great fellowship of folk . 
He goeth thitherward a great gallop . 
Messire Gawain searcheth the ranks on the one hand and on the other , and doeth such feats of arms as never no knight might do the same again . 
The Lord of the Moors was mounted again on another rich horse and had great shame for that Messire Gawain had overthrown him . 
He espieth Messire Gawain and goeth toward him a great gallop and thinketh to avenge his shame . 
The Lord of the Moors likewise again to brast his spear upon him . 
Messire Gawain draweth his sword and flingeth the truncheon to the ground . 
The Lord of the Moors doth likewise and commandeth his folk not to mell betwixt them twain , for never yet had he found no knight that he had not conquered . 
They deal them great buffets on the helms , either upon other , in such sort that the sparks fly thereout and their swords are blunted . 
Thereupon he yieldeth him prisoner to Messire Gawain , that is right glad thereof and his live knights likewise . 
The Lord of the Moors goeth to his tent to alight , and Messire Gawain with him and alighteth . 
And Messire Gawain taketh the horse and saith to one of the knights , Keep this for me . 
Sir , saith he to Messire Gawain , You , then , are the warden of this castle of Camelot . 
Gramercy , lord ! saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , right gladly do we agree thereto . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain to the Lord of the Moors , I give you moreover as my prisoner to the Widow Lady that harboured me last night . 
Sir , saith he , This have you no right to do . 
Assembly of tourney is not war . 
Hence have you no right to imprison my body in castle , for well am I able to pay my ransom here . 
But tell me , what is your name ? I am called Gawain . 
Ha , Messire Gawain , many a time have I heard tell of you albeit never tofore have I seen you . 
And , so you would have of me gold or silver , thereof will I give you at your will . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , Gramercy ! I consent freely to as much as you have said . 
And the five knights drive before them the horses they have taken booty . 
Whereof great also was the joy . 
No need to wonder whether Messire Gawain were well harboured that night at the castle . 
He recounted to the Lady how the castle was in the keeping of these knights . 
When it came to morning tide , Messire Gawain took leave and departed from the castle , but not before he had heard mass , for such was his custom . 
The Widow Lady and her daughter commend him to God , and the castle remaineth in better keeping than he had found it . 
Here beginneth another branch of the Graal in the name of the Father , and of the Son , and of the Holy Ghost . 
And he entereth into a great forest , all armed , his shield at his neck and his spear in his hand . 
And he prayeth Our Lord that He counsel him of this holy errand he hath emprised so as that he may honourably achieve it . 
He rode until that he came at evensong to a hold that was in the midst of the forest . 
The river that compassed it about was water royal , for it lost not its right name nor its body as far as the sea . 
And Messire Gawain bethought him that it was the hold of a worshipful man , and draweth him thitherward to lodge . 
And as he drew anigh the bridge of the hold , he looketh and seeth a dwarf sitting on a high bench . 
Well do I know you , saith the dwarf , For I saw you at the tournament . 
At a better moment could you not have come hither , for my lord is not here . 
But you will find my lady , the fairest and most gentle and most courteous in the realm of Logres , and as yet is she not of twenty years . 
Fair friend , saith Messire Gawain , What name hath the lord of the hold ? Sir , he is called of Little Gomeret . 
I will go tell my lady that Messire Gawain is come , the good knight , and bid her make great joy . 
Howbeit , Messire Gawain marvelleth much that the dwarf should make him such cheer , for many knaveries hath he found in many places within the bodies of many dwarfs . 
The dwarf is come into the chamber where the lady was . 
Now , haste , Lady ! saith he , Make great joy , for Messire Gawain is come to harbour with you . 
Lady , saith the dwarf , It is not true albeit it is so said . 
Thereupon Messire Gawain entereth into the courtyard and alighteth , and the lady cometh to meet him and saith to him May you be come to joy and good adventure . 
Lady , saith he , May you also have honour and good adventure . 
The lady taketh him by the hand and leadeth him into the hall and maketh him be seated on a cushion of straw . 
And a squire leadeth his horse to stable . 
And the dwarf summoneth two other squires and doeth Messire Gawain be disarmed , and helpeth them right busily , and maketh fetch water to wash his hands and his face . 
Sir , saith the dwarf , Your fists are still all swollen of the buffets you gave and received at the tournament . 
Messire Gawain answered him nought . 
And the dwarf entereth into the chamber and bringeth a scarlet robe furred of ermine and maketh it be done on Messire Gawain . 
And meat was made ready and the table set , and the lady sate to eat . 
Rather 'gan he withdraw his eyes from looking at the lady , that was held to be of passing great beauty . 
After meat Messire Gawain's bed was made , and he apparelled himself to lie down . 
The lady bade him God give him good adventure , and he made answer the like . 
When the lady was in her chamber , the dwarf said to Messire Gawain Sir , I will lie before you , so as to keep you company until you be asleep . 
Gramercy , saith he , And God allow me at some time to reward you of the service . 
And he cometh to a fishery , where was a right fair hall on a little eyot enclosed by a marshy arm of the river . 
The jealous knight was come thither for disport , and lay in the midst of the hall upon a couch . 
The dwarf cometh forth of his boat thereinto , and lighteth a great candle in his fist and cometh before the couch . 
Well know I , saith the dwarf , For I left him but now in your hall , and methinketh he and your lady are abed together arm to arm . 
How ? saith he , I forbade her she should ever harbour Messire Gawain . 
Messire Gawain lay in the hall that was ware of nought of this . 
He seeth that day hath broken fair and clear , and ariseth up . 
The lady cometh to the door of the hall and seeth not the dwarf , whereby well she understandeth his treachery . 
that of right ought I not to be held guilty toward my lord nor toward any other , for aught that you have done toward me or I toward you . 
You say true , saith Messire Gawain . 
Thereupon is he armed , and taketh leave of the lady and issueth forth of the fair hold and setteth him in an ambush in the forest nigh thereby . 
Straightway behold the jealous knight where he cometh , he and his dwarf . 
He entereth into the hall . 
The lady cometh to meet him . 
And she began to cry out right loud , until at last Messire Gawain heareth her and draweth forth of the ambush wherein he was , and cometh thitherward a great gallop . 
Wherefore I pray you of franchise and of love that you forbear your wrath and that you set her forth of the water . 
And so will I swear on all the sacred hallows in this chapel that never did I beseech her of evil nor wantonness nor never had I no desire thereof . 
Such shall be the judgment in this matter . 
I ask no better , saith Messire Gawain . 
Thereupon , the knight biddeth the dwarf make set the lady forth of the pool of the spring and make her sit in a launde whereas they were to joust . 
The knight draweth him back the better to take his career , and Messire Gawain cometh as fast as his horse may carry him toward Marin the Jealous . 
Messire Gawak seeth the damsel dead and the dwarf that fleeth full speed after his lord . 
He overtaketh him and trampleth him under his horses feet so that he bursteth his belly in the midst . 
Then goeth he toward the hold , for he thinketh to enter therein . 
But he found the bridge shut up and the gate barred . 
And Marin crieth out upon him . 
This shame and misadventure hath befallen me along of you , but you shall pay for it yet and I may live . 
Then he alighted and laid her within the chapel as fairly as most he might , as he that was sore grieved and wrathful thereof . 
V. Thereupon Messire Gawain departeth , sore an angered , for it seemed him that never had no thing tofore befallen him that weighed so heavy on his heart . 
And he rideth thoughtful and down cast through the forest , and seeth a knight coming along the way he came . 
And in strange fashion came he . 
He seeth Messire Gawain coming beside the forest , that hath great wonderment of him when he seeth him . 
Sir , saith he , Welcome may you be ! And you likewise ! saith Messire Gawain . 
And whose man are you , Sir knight ? The Damsel's man of the Car . 
Thereof I love you the better , saith Messire Gawain . 
God be praised thereof , saith the Knight Coward , For now shall I have no fear of you . 
Nay , truly , saith Messire Gawain , Thereof be well assured ! The Knight Coward seeth Messire Gawain s shield and knoweth it . 
Ha , Sir , saith he , Now know I well who you are . 
Now will I alight and ride the right way and set my arms to rights . 
For you are Messire Gawain , nor hath none the right to claim this shield but only you . 
The knight alighteth and setteth his armour to rights , and prayeth Messire Gawain abide until he be armed . 
So he abideth right willingly , and helpeth him withal . 
Thereupon behold you a knight where he cometh a great gallop athwart the forest like a tempest , and he had a shield party black and white . 
Abide , Messire Gawain ! saith he , For on behalf of Marin the Jealous do I defy you , that hath slain his wife on your account . 
Sir knight , saith Messire Gawain , Thereof am I right heavy of heart , for death had she not deserved . 
That availeth nor , saith the Party Knight , For I hold you to answer for the death . 
To this will I not agree , saith Messire Gawain , For God well knoweth that no blame have I herein . 
They come together a full career and break their lances on their shields , and Messire Gawain hurtleth against the horse and passeth beyond and overthroweth him and his horse together . 
Then draweth he his sword and runneth upon him . 
Messire Gawain thinketh that he will do him no further harm , for that of right behoveth him do his lord's bidding . 
Messire Gawain holdeth his hands , and he doth him homage on behalf of his lord for his hold and all of his land and becometh his man . 
Thereupon the knight departeth and Messire Gawain remaineth there . 
You wish for nought but peace , saith Messire Gawain . 
So God help me , of such hardiesse make I but small account , and every day I pray God that He defend me . 
And so to God I commend you , for I am going after my Damsel of the Car . 
Not thus shall you go , saith Messire Gawain , save you tell me first wherefore your Damsel of the Car beareth her arm slung to her neck in such wise . 
Sir , this may I will tell you . 
Messire Gawain taketh it , for his own was broken short , and departeth from the knight and commendeth him to God . 
And he goeth his way a great pace , and Messire Gawain also goeth amidst the forest , and full weary is he and forspent with travail . 
And he rode until the sun was due to set . 
Ha , Messire Gawain , saith the other , In your service am I wounded thus ! How in my service ? saith Messire Gawain . 
And I had already dug a grave with my sword to bury the body when he seized it from me and abandoned it to the wild beasts . 
But I shall die the more easily now that I have found you and shown you the hurt that hath been done me for your sake . 
Certes , saith Messire Gawain , this grieveth me . 
And we , that are her men , durst not do it on her behalf . 
But right well will you be lodged in the castle , for right courteous is she otherwise and the fairest that ever any may know . 
Nor never hath she had any lord , nor deigned to love no knight save she heard tell that he was the best knight in the world . 
And I will go to her with you of courtesy . 
Gramercy , Sir , saith Messire Gawain . 
They enter into the castle both twain together , and alight at the mounting stage before the hall . 
Then leadeth he the lady of the castle to Messire Gawain , and he riseth up to meet her . 
Sir knight , saith the damsel , See you these tombs ? Yea , damsel , saith Messire Gawain . 
These three are made for the three best knights in the world and the fourth for me . 
The one hath for name Messire Gawain and the second Lancelot of the Lake . 
Each of them do I love for love's sake , by my faith ! And the third hath for name Perceval . 
Him love I better than the other two . 
And within these three openings are the hallows set for love of them . 
Even thus will I cut off their heads when they shall set them into those three openings thinking to adore the hallows that are beyond . 
Messire Gawain heard the word . 
whereof he marvelled right sore , and would right fain that the night were overpassed . 
They issue forth of the chapel . 
The damsel maketh Messire Gawain be greatly honoured that night , and there was great company of knights within that served him and helped guard the castle . 
They show Messire Gawain much worship , but they knew not that it was he , nor did none ask him , for such was the custom of the castle . 
Messire Gawain was in the castle that night until the morrow , and went to hear mass in the chapel or ever he removed thence . 
Afterward , when he had heard mass and was armed , he took leave of the damsel and issued forth of the castle as he that had no desire to abide there longer . 
And he entereth into the forest and rideth a long league Welsh and findeth two knights sitting by a narrow path in the forest . 
And when they see him coming they leap up on their horses all armed and come against Messire Gawain , shields on sides and spears in fists . 
I am called Gawain , King Arthur s nephew . 
Nay , then , Sir , welcome may you be ! One other demand have we to make of you . 
I have told you plainly that thither will I not go , saith Messire Gawain . 
With that , they leap forward and take him by the bridle , thinking to lead him away by force . 
And Messire Gawain hath shame thereof , and draweth his sword and smiteth one of them in such wrath that he cutteth off his arm . 
And the other letteth the bridle go and turneth him full speed and his fellow with him that was maimed . 
And away go they toward Castle Orguelleux and the Proud Maiden of the castle and show her the mischief that hath befallen them . 
Who hath mis handled you thus ? saith she . 
Certes , lady , Messire Gawain . 
But come he would not . 
We offered him force , and he smote my fellow s arm off . 
They were a good fifteen knights armed . 
Just as they were about to issue out of the castle , behold you forthwith two keepers of the forest where they come , both twain of them smitten through the body . 
Is he far away ? saith the damsel . 
Yea , say they , Four great leagues Welsh . 
Yea , saith the wounded knight , Without fail . 
Is this then he ? saith the damsel . 
And while he was thus thinking , he heareth a brachet questing , and he cometh toward him a great pace . 
And the brachet leaveth of his questing . 
Messire Gawain seeth in the midst of house a knight that was stricken right through the breast unto the heart and there lay dead . 
A damsel was issuing forth of the chamber and bare the winding sheer wherein to enshroud him . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , Good adventure may you have ! The damsel that was weeping right tenderly , saith to him Sir , I will answer you not . 
She cometh toward the dead knight , thinking that his wounds should have begun to bleed afresh , but they did not . 
Sir , saith she to Messire Gawain , Welcome may you be ! Damsel , saith he . 
Know you then , damsel , who hath slain him ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Damsel , to God I commend you ! saith Messire Gawain . 
With that , he issueth forth of the Waste Manor and betaketh him back to the way he had abandoned , and prayeth God grant he may find Lancelot of the Lake . 
Here beginneth again another branch of the Graal in the name of the Father , and of the Son , and of the Holy Ghost . 
TITLE I. Messire Gawain goeth his way and evening draweth on and on his right hand was there a narrow pathway that seemed him to be haunted of folk . 
Thitherward goeth he , for that he seeth the sun waxeth low , and findeth in the thick of the forest a great chapel , and without was a right fair manor . 
Before the chapel was an orchard enclosed of a wooden fence that was scarce so high as a tall man . 
A hermit that seemed him a right worshipful man was leaning against the fence , and looked into the orchard and made great cheer from time to time . 
He seeth Messire Gawain , and cometh to meet him , and Messire Gawain alighteth . 
Sir , saith the hermit , Welcome may you be . 
God grant you the joy of Paradise , saith Messire Gawain . 
The hermit maketh his horse be stabled of a squire , and then taketh him by the hand and maketh him sit beside him to look on the orchard . 
Sir , saith the hermit , Now may you see that whereof I was making cheer . 
Messire Gawain looketh therewithin and seeth two damsels and a squire and a child that were guarding a lion . 
Sir , saith the hermit , Here see my joy , which is this child . 
Saw you ever so fair a child his age ? Never , saith Messire Gawain . 
They go into the orchard to sit , for the evening was fair and calm . 
He maketh disarm him , and thereupon the damsel bringeth him a surcoat of right rich silk furred of ermine . 
And Messire Gawain looketh at the child that rode upon the lion right fainly . 
Sir , saith the hermit , None durst guard him or be master over him save this child only , and yet the lad is not more than six years of age . 
Sir , he is of right noble lineage , albeit he is the son of the most cruel man and most felon that is . 
Marin the Jealous is his father , that slew his wife on account of Messire Gawain . 
Never sithence that his mother was dead would not the lad be with his father , for well knoweth he that he slew her of wrong . 
For after his father's death ought he of right to be Messire Gawain's man . 
Sir , if any tidings you know of him , tell us them . 
By my faith , Sir , saith he , Tidings true can I give you . 
Lo , there is his shield and his spear , and himself shall you have this night for guest . 
Fair sir , are you he ? saith the hermit . 
So men call me , saith Messire Gawain , And the lady saw I slain in the forest , whereof was I sore an angered . 
Fair nephew , saith the hermit , See here your desire . 
Come to him and make him cheer . 
Sir , saith the child , Welcome may you be ! God give you growth of honour ! saith Messire Gawain . 
He kisseth him and maketh cheer with him right sweetly . 
The child kneeleth before him and holdeth up his joined hands . 
Look , Sir , saith the hermit , Is he not right pitiful ? He offereth you his homage . 
But fain would I know your name ? Sir , I am called Meliot of Logres . 
Sir , saith the hermit , He saith true , for his mother was daughter of a rich earl of the kingdom of Logres . 
Messire Gawain was well harboured the night and lay in a right fair house and right rich . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , God grant me herein to do His pleasure . 
Thereupon he taketh his leave and goeth his way , and the hermit commendeth him to God . 
And he seeth a high forest before him , and meeteth a squire that came from that quarter , and seeth that he is sore downcast and right simple . 
Fair friend , saith Messire Gawain , Whence come you ? Sir , saith he , I come from yonder forest down below . 
Whose man are you ? saith Messire Gawain . 
I belong to the worshipful man that owneth the forest . 
You seem not over joyful , saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , I have right to be otherwise , saith the squire , For he that loseth his good lord ought not to be joyful . 
And who is your lord ? The best in the world . 
Is he dead ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Nay , of a truth , for that would be right sore grief to the world , but in joy hath he not been this long time past . 
And what name hath he ? They call him Parlui there where he is . 
Messire Gawain seeth that the squire is of passing comeliness and seeth him forthwith bow his head toward the ground and the tears fall from his eyes . 
Thereupon he asketh what aileth him . 
Sir , saith he , Never may I have joy until such time as I be entered into a hermitage to save my soul . 
When my father knew that I had slain my mother , he withdrew himself into this forest , and made a hermitage and renounced his kingdom . 
And what is your name ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , my name is Joseus , and I am of the lineage of Joseph of Abarimacie . 
He looketh from without the entrance under a little tree and seeth there sitting one of the seemliest men that he had ever seen of his age . 
No strange man shall not see him within yonder until such time as he be whole and of good cheer . 
Hereof is Messire Gawain right sorrowful that he may not speak to the knight . 
Sir , saith he to the hermit , Of what age is the knight , and of what lineage ? Of the lineage of Joseph of Abarimacie the Good Soldier . 
And Messire abideth without and knoweth not of a truth whether it be the son of the Widow Lady , for many good men there be of one lineage . 
He departeth all abashed and entereth again into the forest . 
The history telleth not all the journeys that he made . 
Thitherward goeth he and draweth nigh the castle and seeth it compassed about of high walls , and he seeth the entrance of the castle far without . 
He looketh and seeth a lion chained that lay in the midst of the entrance to the gate , and the chain was fixed in the wall . 
Messire Gawain durst not come anigh the gate for that he seeth the lion and these folk . 
And in each crenel of the wall was a cross and a chapel . 
Messire Gawain looketh at them from afar , for he durst not come anigh the castle for these that shoot their arrows so strongly that none armour might defend him . 
Way seeth he none to right nor left save he go back again . 
He knoweth not what to do . 
He looketh before him and seeth a priest issue forth of the gateway . 
Allow me then , saith Messire Gawain , that I may pass on further , for toward the land of King Fisherman have I emprised my way . 
But so you bring the Sword , this entrance will be free to you , and great joy will be made of you in all places wherein King Fisherman hath power . 
Then must I needs go back again , saith Messire Gawain , Whereof I have right to be sore sorrowful . 
But take heed you remember him who would not ask whereof it served . 
Thereupon Messire Gawain departeth so sorrowful and full of thought that he remembereth not to ask in what land he may find the sword nor the name of the King that hath it . 
But he will know tidings thereof when God pleaseth . 
The history telleth us and witnesseth that he rode so far that he came to the side of a little hill , and the day was right fair and clear . 
He looketh in front of him before a chapel and seeth a tall burgess sitting on a great destrier that was right rich and fair . 
The burgess espieth Messire Gawain and cometh over against him , and saluteth him right courteously and Messire Gawain him . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , God give you joy . 
Sir , saith the goodman , Right sorrowful am I of this that you have a horse so lean and spare of flesh . 
Better would it become so worshipful man as you seem to be that he were better horsed . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , I may not now amend it , whereof am I sorry another shall I have when it shall please God . 
Fair sir , saith the burgess , Whither are you bound to go ? I go seek the sword wherewith the head of S. John Baptist was cut off . 
Ha , sir , saith the burgess , You are running too sore a peril . 
A King hath it that believeth not in God , and is sore fell and cruel . 
He is named Gurgalain , and many knights have passed hereby that went thither for the sword , but never thence have they returned . 
Will you ? saith Messire Gawain , Then are you right courteous , for you know me not . 
Certes , sir , saith he , So worshipful man seem you to be , that you will hold well to this that you have covenanted with me . 
And to this do I pledge you my word , saith Messire Gawain , that , so God allow me to conquer it , I will show it to you on my return . 
And he findeth a meadow in the midst of the forest , right broad , and it ran on beyond , like as there were the stream of a spring in the midst . 
The tent was white round about , and the hanging above was of the richest silk , the same as red samite . 
And round about the couch were rich silken cloths spread on the ground . 
Howbeit , he was minded to disarm him . 
Thereupon , behold you , saluteth a dwarf that entereth the tent and saluteth Messire Gawain . 
Then he kneeleth before him and would fain disarm him . 
Then Messire Gawain remembereth him of the dwarf through whom the lady was slain . 
Fair sweet friend , withdraw yourself further from me , for as at this time I have no mind to disarm . 
With that Messire Gawain began to disarm him , and the dwarf helpeth him . 
Afterward , he unfasteneth a right fair coffer , and draweth forth a robe of cloth of gold furred of ermine and maketh Messire Gawain be clad therewithal . 
Sir , saith the dwarf , Be not troubled as touching your destrier , for you will have him again when you rise in the morning . 
I will lead him close hereby to be better at ease , and then will I return to you . 
And Messire Gawain giveth him leave . 
Whilst Messire Gawain was eating , behold you , thereupon , two damsels that come into the tent and salute him right courteously . 
And he maketh answer , the fairest he may . 
Sir , say the damsels , God grant you force and power tomorrow to destroy the evil custom of this tent . 
Is there then any evil custom herein , damsel ? saith he . 
Yea , sir , a right foul custom , whereof much it grieveth me , but well meseemeth that you are the knight to amend it by the help of God . 
Therewith he riseth from the table , and one of the squires was apparelled to take away the cloths . 
And the two damsels take him by the hand and lead him without the tent , and they set them down in the midst of the meadow . 
Sir , saith the elder damsel , What is your name ? Damsel , saith he , Gawain is my name . 
Damsel , gramercy , saith he . 
Thereupon he riseth up , for he was weary , and draweth him toward the couch , and the damsels help him and wait upon his going to bed . 
And when he was lien down , they seated themselves before him and lighted the taper and leant over the couch and prospered him much service . 
Messire Gawain answered them naught save Gramercy , for he was minded to sleep and take his rest . 
But this is a counterfeit Gawain , and the honour we have done him hath been ill bestowed . 
Who careth ? To morrow shall he pay his reckoning . 
X. Thereupon , lo you , the dwarf where he cometh . 
For , and it were he , and we had been minded to watch with him two nights , he would have wished it to be three or four . 
Damsel , saith the dwarf , He may not flee away save he go afoot , for his horse is in my keeping . 
And Messire Gawain heareth well enough that which the damsels say , but he answereth them never a word . 
That grieveth me , saith Messire Gawain , if that I have deserved it . 
It is great pity , saith the dwarf , when knight so comely as be you is so churlish as they say . 
They may say their pleasure , saith he , for it is their right . 
What pleaseth it you that I should do ? saith Messire Gawain . 
It is meet I should requite you of my victual and the honour of the tent . 
Thereupon , lo you , where the two damsels come that were of right great beauty . 
Messire Gawain thus heard himself mocked by day as well as by night and had great shame thereof . 
He seeth that he may not depart without a fight . 
One of the knights drew to backward and was alighted the other was upon his horse all armed , his shield on his neck and grasping his spear in his fist . 
Messire Gawain bethinketh him what he shall do and whether the damsels are looking at him . 
For he is the lord of the other and because of the shameful custom hath no knight come hither this right long space . 
Thereupon Messire Gawain lifteth the skirt of his habergeon and thrusteth his sword into his body . 
In the fall that the knight made , Messire Gawain brake his collar bone in the hurtle . 
For the knight crieth him mercy and Messire Gawain had right great pity of him . 
Howbeit the damsels cry to him And you slay him not , the evil custom will not be overthrown . 
Sir , saith the younger damsel , And you would slay him , smite him in the sole of his foot with your sword , otherwise will he not die yet . 
Damsel , saith the knight , Your love of me is turned to shame ! Never more ought knight to set affiance nor love on damsel . 
And the wounded knight was remounted , for the dwarf had helped him , and fleeth toward the forest a great gallop . 
Thereupon Messire Gawain leapeth on his horse and taketh a spear that was leaning against the tent and followeth the knight in such sort that he smiteth him to the ground . 
Afterward he saith to him No further may you go ! That grieveth me , saith the knight , For before night should I have been avenged of you and of the damsels . 
And Messire Gawain draweth his sword and thrusteth it into the sole of his foot a full palm's breadth , and the knight stretcheth himself forth and dieth . 
And Messire Gawain returneth back , and the damsels make great joy of him and tell him that never otherwise could the evil custom have been done away . 
And Messire Gawain alighteth , and the damsels would have searched the wound in his side , and he telleth them that he taketh no heed thereof . 
Sir , say they , Again do we proffer you our service , for well we know that you are a good knight . 
Take for your lady love which of us you will . 
Gramercy , damsel , saith Messire Gawain , Your love do I refuse not and to God do I commend you . 
How ? say the damsels , Will you go your way thus ? Certes , meeter were it to day for you to sojourn in this tent and be at ease . 
It may not be , saith he , for leisure have I none to abide here . 
Let him go ! saith the younger , for the falsest knight is he of the world . 
By my head , saith the elder , it grieveth me that he goeth , for stay would have pleased me well . 
Therewithal Messire Gawain departeth and is remounted on his horse . 
Then he entereth into the forest . 
Thitherward he cometh and seeth but one entrance thereinto , and he seeth the fairest land that ever he beheld and the best garnished and the fairest orchards . 
The country was not more than four leagues Welsh in length , and in the midst thereof was a tower on a high rock . 
And on the top was a crane that kept watch over it and cried when any strange man came into the country . 
Messire Gawain rode amidst the land and the crane cried out so loud that the King of Wales heard it , that was lord of the land . 
Lords , saith Messire Gawain , I knew not of the custom . 
The King maketh great joy of him and asketh him whither he would go ? Sir , saith Messire Gawain , Into a country where I was never . 
Well I know , saith the king , where it is , for that you are passing through my land . 
You are going to the country of King Gurgalain to conquer the sword wherewith S. John was beheaded . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , You say true . 
God grant me that I may have it ! That may not be so hastily , saith the King , For you shall not go forth of my land before a year . 
Ha , Sir , saith Messire Gawain , For God's sake , mercy ! None other mercy is here , saith the King . 
Straightway he maketh Messire Gawain be disarmed and afterward maketh bring a robe wherewith to apparel him , and showeth him much honour . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , I pledge you my word that , so God give me to conquer it , I will return by you . 
And I will allow you to depart from me at your will . 
For nought is there that I so much desire to see . 
He lay the night therewithin , and on the morrow departed thence and issued forth of the land right glad and joyful . 
And he goeth toward the land of King Gurgalain . 
Against the master pillar hung a vessel of gold by a silver chain , and in the midst of the fountain was an image so deftly wrought as if it had been alive . 
When Messire appeared at the fountain , the image set itself in the water and was hidden therewith . 
But on their going back , it seemed to Messire Gawain that only one was there . 
Messire Gawain much marvelled him of this miracle . 
He goeth after the clerk that carried the other vessel of gold , and saith unto him Fair Sir , speak to me . 
What is your pleasure ? saith the clerk . 
Is it far from hence ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Yea , Sir , saith the clerk , to yourself . 
But I shall be there sooner than will you . 
By God , saith Messire Gawain , I would fain I were there now , so that I might see him and speak to him . 
That believe I well , saith the clerk , But now is the place not here . 
Messire Gawain taketh leave and goeth his way and rideth until he findeth a hermitage and seeth the hermit therewithout . 
He was old and bald and of good life . 
Is it far ? saith he . 
He and his land are hard by , but far away is the castle wherein is the sword . 
Messire Gawain lay the night therewithin . 
And he meeteth a knight that cometh a great pace to a castle . 
Sir , saith he , I will tell you . 
King Gurgalain had one only son of whom he hath been bereft by a Giant that hath done him many mischiefs and wasted much of his land . 
Right joyous is Messire Gawain of these tidings , and departeth from the castle and rideth on until he cometh to the castle of King Gurgalain . 
The tidings come to the King that there is a Christian come into his castle . 
The King maketh great joy thereof , and maketh him come before him and asketh him of his name and of what land he is . 
Sir , saith he , My name is Gawain and I am of the land of King Arthur . 
You are , saith he , of the land of the Good Knight . 
But of mine own land may I find none that durst give counsel in a matter I have on hand . 
But if you be of such valour that you be willing to undertake to counsel me herein , right well will I reward you . 
Every day at right noon is it bloody , for that at that hour the good man had his head cut off . 
Then the King draweth it forth of the scabbard , and the sword came forth thereof all bloody , for it was the hour of noon . 
And he made hold it before Messire Gawain until the hour was past , and thereafter the sword becometh as clear as an emerald and as green . 
V. Sir Knight , saith the King , This sword will I give you , and another thing will I do whereof you shall have joy . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , And I will do your need , if God please and His sweet Mother . 
Thereupon he teacheth him the way whereby the Giant went , and the place where he had his repair , and Messire Gawain goeth his way thitherward and commendeth himself to God . 
The country folk pray for him according to their belief that he may back repair with life and health , for that he goeth in great peril . 
Messire Gawain was armed and had his sword girt on , and goeth his way thitherward . 
But Messire Gawain swerveth aside and bestirreth him with his sword and dealeth him a blow such that he cut off his arm , axe and all . 
And as he goeth thither he falleth , Messire Gawain and all , and he lieth undermost . 
Howbeit , he thinketh to rise , but cannot , for Messire Gawain sendeth him his sword right through his heart and beyond . 
Afterward , he cut off the head and cometh there where the King's child lay dead , whereof is he right sorrowful . 
And Messire Gawain alighteth before the castle and presenteth to the King his son and the head of the Giant . 
Certes , said he , might I have presented him to you on live , much more joyful should I have been thereof . 
This believe I well , saith the King , Howbeit , of so much as you have done am I well pleased , and your guerdon shall you have . 
And he looketh at his son and lamenteth him right sweetly , and all they of the castle after him . 
After that he maketh bring the sword and giveth it to Messire Gawain , and Messire Gawain thanketh him much thereof . 
More yet will I do for you , saith the King . 
He biddeth send for all the men of his land to come to his hall and castle . 
Sir , saith he , I am fain to baptize me . 
God be praised thereof , saith Messire Gawain . 
He alighted before the hall , and the King made right great cheer when he saw him come . 
And Messire Gawain hath told him I come to redeem my pledge . 
Behold , here is the sword . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , Then have you betrayed me . 
And Messire Gawain agreeth thereto , and of this agreement thereafter did he suffer much shame and anguish and was blamed of many knights . 
And the King yielded him the Sword . 
And he remembered him of his covenant , and abideth a long space and leaneth him on the hilt of his sword until the burgess cometh . 
And Messire Gawain goeth after a great pace and crieth out that he doth great treachery . 
Come not after me into the city , saith the burgess , for the folk have a commune . 
Howbeit , he followeth after into the city for that he might not overtake him before , and therein he meeteth a great procession of priests and clerks that bore crosses and censers . 
And Messire Gawain alighteth on account of the procession , and seeth the burgess that hath gone into the church and the procession after . 
Lords , saith Messire Gawain , Make yield me the sword whereof this burgess that hath entered your church hath plundered me . 
Ha , lords ! saith Messire Gawain , Not so ! I have but shown it to him to fulfil my pledge . 
And he hath carried it off by treachery . 
He hath scarce gone far before he meeteth a knight that came all armed , as fast as his horse could carry him , spear in rest . 
Sir , saith he to Messire Gawain , I have come to help you . 
We were told that you had been evil entreated in the city , and I am of the castle that succoureth all strange knights that pass hereby whensoever they have need thereof . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , Blessed be the castle ! I plain me not of the trespass for that right hath been done me . 
And how is the castle named ? Sir , they call it the Castle of the Ball . 
He seeth Messire Gawain alight and cometh to meet him and maketh him great cheer . 
Afterward , he biddeth his two daughters lead him into the hall . 
When he was disarmed , the one brought him a right rich robe , and after meat the two maidens sit beside him and make him right great cheer . 
Thereupon behold you , a dwarf that issueth forth of a chamber , and he holdeth a scourge . 
And he cometh to the damsels and smiteth them over their faces and their heads . 
So also am I , saith Messire Gawain , But no blame of her death have I nor she , as God knoweth of very truth . 
It was the hour of noon . 
He draweth the sword , and seeth it all bloody , and they bow down and worship it , and sing Te Deum laudamus' . 
And he made answer that he would do that which God should teach him . 
Messire Gawain , saith the master of the priests , that was right ancient Great need have you to take rest , for meseemeth you have had much travail . 
Sir , many things have I seen whereof I am sore abashed , nor know I what castle this may be . 
By my faith , saith Messire Gawain , I am much abashed of the three damsels that were at the court of King Arthur . 
And for that Adam was the first man is he called King , for he was our earthly father , and his wife Queen . 
Of these three manner of folk is the world stablished . 
And the other folk that are therewithin are longing for him . 
And to this doth Joseph make us allusion by the castle or the Black Hermit which signifieth hell , and the Good Knight that shall thence cast forth them that are within . 
And I tell you that the Black Hermit is Lucifer , that is Lord of hell in like manner as he fain would have been Lord of Paradise . 
By this stroke was the old law destroyed , and by His crucifixion . 
The lady signifieth the old law . 
Would you ask more of me ? saith the priest . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , I met a knight in the forest that rode behind before and carried his arms upside down . 
The law was turned to the worse , saith the priest , before Our Lord's crucifixion , and so soon as He was crucified , was again restored to right . 
I did vanquish him and he did me homage . 
It is right , saith the priest , On account of the old law that was destroyed were all they that remained therein made subject , and shall be for ever more . 
Wish you to enquire of aught further ? saith the priest . 
The child was the son of the lady that was slain on my account . 
Right well have you spoken , saith the priest , in reminding me thereof . 
Afterward , came three damsels and filled the vessel with that they had brought thither , and straightway meseemed that but one was there . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , I would fain ask you of a King . 
When I had brought him his son back dead , he made him be cooked and thereafter made him be eaten of all the folk of his land . 
And therefore was all evil belief uprooted from his land , so that none remained therein . 
Blessed be the hour , saith Messire Gawain , that I came herewithin ! Mine be it ! saith the priest . 
Messire Gawain lay therewithin the night , and right well lodged was he . 
The morrow , when he had heard mass , he departed and went forth of the castle when he had taken leave . 
And he findeth the fairest land of the world and the fairest meadow grounds that were ever seen , and the fairest rivers and forests garnished of wild deer and hermitages . 
And his chapel was scarce taller , and the good man had never issued therefrom of forty years past . 
The Hermit putteth his head out of the window when he seeth Messire Gawain and saith , Sir , welcome may you be , saith he . 
Sir , God give you joy , Will you give me lodging to night ? saith Messire Gawain . 
What is the castle ? Sir , the good King Fisherman's , that is surrounded with great waters and plenteous in all things good , so the lord were in joy . 
But behoveth them harbour none there save good knights only . 
God grant , saith Messire Gawain , that I may come therein . 
When he knoweth that he is nigh the castle , he alighteth and confesseth him to the hermit , and avoweth all his sins and repenteth him thereof right truly . 
He alighteth , and then setteth him on his knees and boweth him down and adoreth right sweetly . 
A voice crieth to him as he passeth the burial ground Touch not the sepulchre , for you are not the Good Knight through whom shall it be known who lieth therein . 
And three great waters run below , and him seemeth that the first bridge is a bowshot in length and in breadth not more than a foot . 
Strait seemeth the bridge and the water deep and swift and wide . 
He knoweth not what he may do , for it seemeth him that none may pass it , neither afoot nor on horse . 
Ha , saith Messire Gawain , Fair sir , but teach me how I may pass hereby . 
Certes , Sir Knight , no passage know I to this entrance other than this , and if you desire to come to the castle , pass on without misgiving . 
Much marvelled he that he found the bridge so wide that had seemed him so narrow . 
The knight draweth himself back beyond the great bridge and Messire Gawain cometh nigh to pass it , and this seemed him as long as the other . 
And it was not less rich than the other , and had columns of marble all round about , and upon each a knop so rich that it seemed to be of gold . 
Thereafter at the entrance of the gate he seeth a lion right great and horrible , and he was upright upon his feet . 
Meanwhile , as Messire Gawain was looking at the beauty of the chess board and the hall , behold you two knights that issue forth of a chamber and come to him . 
Sir , say the knights , Welcome may you be . 
God give you joy and good . 
adventure , saith Messire Gawain . 
They make him sit upon the couch and after that make him be disarmed . 
They bring him , in two basins of gold , water to wash his face and hands . 
After that , come two damsels that bring him a rich robe of silk and cloth of gold . 
Then they make him do on the same . 
Then say the two damsels to him , Take in good part whatsoever may be done to you therewithin , for this is the hostel of good knights and loyal . 
Damsels , saith Messire Gawain , So will I do . 
He seeth well that albeit the night were dark , within was so great brightness of light without candles that it was marvel . 
And it seemed him the sun shone there . 
Wherefore marvelled he right sore whence so great light should come . 
When Messire Gawain was clad in the rich robe , right comely was he to behold , and well seemed he to be a knight of great valour . 
And in four tall candle sticks of gold were four tall wax tapers set as often as was need . 
Messire Gawain cometh before the King and saluteth him . 
And the King maketh him right great cheer , and biddeth him be welcome . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , I present you with the sword whereof John was beheaded . 
He taketh the sword and setteth it to his mouth and so kisseth it right sweetly and maketh right great joy thereof . 
And a damsel cometh to sit at the head of the bed , to whom he giveth the sword in keeping . 
Two others sit at his feet that look at him right sweetly . 
What is your name ? saith the King . 
Sir , my name is Gawain . 
Ha , Messire Gawain , saith he , This brightness of light that shineth there within cometh to us of God for love of you . 
For every time that a knight cometh hither to harbour within this castle it appeareth as brightly as you see it now . 
On account of one single word he delayed to speak , did this languishment come upon me . 
Wherefore I pray you for God's sake that you remember to speak it , for right glad should you be and you may restore me my health . 
Sir , saith the damsel to her uncle the King , Thank Messire Gawain of the honour he did to my lady mother when he came to her hostel . 
He stablished our land again in peace , and conquered the keeping of the castle for a year , and set my lady mother's five knights there with us to keep it . 
The year hath now passed , wherefore will the war be now renewed against us and God succour us not , and I find not my brother whom we have lost so long . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , I helped you so far as I might , and so would I again and I were there . 
And fainer am I to see your brother than all the knights of the world . 
I saw his horse being led by a squire before the chapel , and his arms and shield whereon was a sun figured . 
But good reward of harbouring him had I not , for I may help neither myself nor other . 
For God's sake , Messire Gawain , hold me in remembrance this night , for great affiance have I in your valour . 
Certes , Sir , please God , nought will I do within yonder , whereof I may be blamed of right . 
They have set Messire Gawain to eat at a right rich table of ivory and seat themselves all round about him . 
Sir , saith the Master of the Knights , Remember you of that the good King hath prayed of you and told you this night as you have heard . 
And the damsels pass before Messire Gawain , and go into another chapel . 
And Messire Gawain is thoughtful , and so great a joy cometh to him that nought remembereth he in his thinking save of God only . 
The knights are all daunted and sorrowful in their hearts , and look at Messire Gawain . 
The Master of the Knights beckoneth to Messire Gawain . 
Messire Gawain looketh before him and seeth three drops of blood fall upon the table . 
He was all abashed to look at them and spake no word . 
Therewith the damsels pass forth and the knights are all adread and look one at the other . 
Messire Gawain seeth it and hath great pity thereof , and of nought doth he remember him save of the pain that this King suffereth . 
And the Master of the Knights summoneth him again by word of mouth , and telleth him that if he delayeth longer , never more will he recover it . 
Messire Gawain is silent , as he that heareth not the knight speak , and looketh upward . 
Messire Gawain sitteth at the game , and they of gold played against him and mated him twice . 
At the third time , when he thought to revenge himself and saw that he had the worse , he swept the pieces off the board . 
And the damsel issued forth of a chamber and made a squire take the chess board and the pieces and so carry them away . 
Thereupon he armeth him and would fain go to take leave of King Fisherman , but he findeth the doors bolted so that he may not get forth . 
And right fair service seeth he done in a chapel , and right sorrowful is he for that he may not hear the mass . 
But you lost entering therein on account of a right little word . 
And he heard the sweetest voices and the fairest services that were ever done in chapel . 
Messire Gawain answereth her not a word so is he abashed . 
And thereafter behoveth the bridge be lifted again on account of the King of the Castle Mortal , that warreth against this castle , and therefore of this thing shall he die . 
Thereupon Messire Gawain issueth forth of the hall and findeth his horse all made ready at the mounting stage , together with his arms . 
He goeth forth and findeth the bridges broad and long , and goeth his way a great pace beside a great river that runneth in the midst of the valley . 
And he seeth in a great forest a mighty rain and tempest , and so strong a thunderstorm ariseth in the forest that it seemeth like all the trees should be uprooted . 
So great is the rain and the tempest that it compelleth him set his shield over his horse's head lest he be drowned of the abundance of rain . 
Two brachets follow the knight . 
The sun shineth right fair on the meadow and the air is right clear and fresh . 
And he seeth them ride joyously . 
He can ask them naught for they are too far away . 
Messire Gawain looketh about and seeth on the other side the river a squire nearer to him than is the knight . 
Will this tempest that is over me last for ever ? saith Messire Gawain . 
At the first bridge you come to will it be stayed upon you , saith the squire . 
And he seeth before him a castle where was a great company of folk that were making great cheer . 
He rideth until he cometh to the castle and seeth right great throng of folk , knights and dames and damsels . 
Messire Gawain alighteth , but findeth in the castle none that is willing to take his reins , so busied are they making merry . 
Not for this lose they their courtesy , saith the knight , For this is no more than you have deserved . 
And Messire Gawain cometh thitherward and alighteth , and a knight cometh down the steps of the hall right poorly clad . 
Therewithal issue two damsels from a chamber , right poorly clad , that were of passing great beauty , and make great cheer to Messire Gawain . 
He seeth Messire Gawain , whom he knoweth . 
I was fain to help Lancelot , when one of the knights smote me as you may see . 
Messire Gawain goeth down from the hall and mounteth all armed upon his horse . 
But one of the knights had drawn him aback , for he might abide the combat no longer , for the knight that brought the tidings to Messire Gawain had sore wounded him . 
The two knights beset Lancelot full sore , and right weary was he of the buffets that he had given and received . 
Messire Gawain cometh to one of the knights and smiteth him right through the body and maketh him and his horse roll over all of a heap . 
When Lancelot perceiveth Messire Gawain , much joy maketh he thereof . 
In the meanwhile as the one held the other , the fourth knight fled full speed through the midst of the forest , and he that the knight had wounded fell dead . 
Shall we therefore take them of our booty ? I agree , saith Lancelot , But sore grieveth me of the knight that hath thus escaped us . 
Take no heed , saith Messire Gawain , We shall do well enough herein . 
Thereupon come they into the hall . 
The knight maketh one of his own squires stable the horses and the two damsels help disarm Lancelot and Messire Gawain . 
Lords , saith the knight , So God help me , nought have I to lend you wherewith to clothe you , for robe have I none save mine own jerkin . 
They were fain not to refuse , lest the damsels should think they held them not in honour , and did on the two kirtles right poor as they were . 
The damsels had great joy thereof that so good knights should deign wear garments so poor . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , He said that you should yet know it well . 
The two good knights lay the night at the castle , and the Poor Knight lodged them as well as he might . 
When it cometh to morning , they go to the chapel to hear mass and to be at the burial of the body . 
After that they take leave of the Poor Knight and the two damsels and depart from the castle all armed . 
Messire Gawain , saith Lancelot , They know not at court what hath become of you , and they hold you for dead as they suppose . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , Right sorely ill have you wrought , nor is there not whereof I have so great desire as I have to go to his castle . 
They issue forth of a forest , and each taketh his own way without saying a word . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , Whence come you ? Sir , saith Lancelot , I come from the neighbourhood of King Arthur's Court . 
Ha , Sir , can you tell me tidings of a knight that beareth a green shield such as I bear ? If so , he is my brother . 
What name hath he ? saith Lancelot . 
Sir , saith he , His name is Gladoens , and he is a good knight and a hardy , and he hath a white horse right strong and swift . 
Be there other knights in your country that bear such arms as your shield and his besides you and he ? Certes , Sir , none . 
And wherefore do you ask ? saith Lancelot . 
For this , that a certain man hath reft him of one of his castles for that he was not there . 
Howbeit , I know well that he will have it again through his good knighthood . 
Is he so good knight ? saith Lancelot . 
Certes , Sir , yea ! He is the best of the Isles of the Moors . 
Sir , of your mercy , lower your coif . 
He quickly thereon lowereth his coif , and Lancelot looketh at him in the face . 
Certes , Sir Knight , saith he , you very much resemble him . 
Sir , saith the knight , Let me go seek my brother , and tell me where I may find him . 
Certes , saith Lancelot , I will tell you though it grieve me sore . 
Sir , saith the knight , I am going my way , but for God's sake tell me where I shall find my brother . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , I will tell you . 
This morning did I bid his body farewell and help to bury him . 
Ha , Sir , saith the knight , Do you tell me true ? Certes , saith Lancelot , True it is that I tell you . 
Is he slain then , my brother ? saith the knight . 
Yea , and of succouring me , saith Lancelot . 
Ha , sir , saith the knight , For God's sake tell me nought that is not right . 
By God , Sir , saith he , Sore grieved am I to tell it you , for never loved I knight so much in so brief a time as I loved him . 
He helped to save me from death , and therefore will I do for you according to that he did for me . 
Sir , saith the knight , If he be dead , a great grief is it to myself , for I have lost my comfort and my life and my land without recovery . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , He helped me to save my life , and yours will I help to save henceforth for ever and so be that I shall know of your jeopardy . 
The knight heareth that his brother is dead and well believeth Lancelot , and beginneth to make dole thereof the greatest that was ever heard . 
By my head , saith Lancelot , I will go with you , that so may I reward you of that he hath done for me . 
He delivered his body to the death for me , and in like manner freely would I fain set mine own in jeopardy for love of you and of him . 
Sir , saith the knight , Right good will do I owe you of this that you say to me , so your deeds be but the same herein . 
Yea , so help me God , saith Lancelot , The same shall they be , if God lend me the power . 
And they ride until they come to the land of the Moors then espy they a castle upon a rock , and below was a broad meadow land . 
Lancelot and the knight ride until they draw nigh the castle . 
And the knight looketh in the way before him , and seeth a squire coming on a hackney , that was carrying before him a wild boar dead . 
Lancelot heareth how he that is coming is the enemy of him to whom had he been alive , his love most was due . 
The Knight of the Green Shield pointed him out so soon as he saw him . 
Sir , saith he to Lancelot , Behold him by whom I am disherited , and yet worse would he do to me and he knew that my brother were dead . 
Lancelot , without saving more , so soon as he had espied the Knight of the Rock , smiteth his horse with his spurs and cometh toward him . 
The Lord of the Rock , that was proud and hardy , seeth Lancelot coming and smiteth with his spurs the horse whereon he sitteth . 
And what is that to you ? saith the knight . 
Behoveth his brother challenge me thereof . 
As much it behoveth me as his brother , saith Lancelot . 
Wherefore you ? For this , saith Lancelot , That as much as he did for me will I do to you . 
He cutteth off his head and giveth it incontinent to the Knight of the Green Shield . 
Lancelot and the knight lay the night at the Rock Gladoens , and the Knight of the Green Shield had his land at his pleasure , and all were obedient to him . 
And the upright and loyal were right glad , albeit when they heard the tidings of Gladoens' death they were right sorrowful thereof . 
Lancelot goeth back right amidst the forest and rideth the day long , and meeteth a knight that was coming , groaning sore . 
And he was stooping over the fore saddle bow for the pain that he had . 
Wherefore I beseech you not go thither . 
What pass is it then ? saith Lancelot . 
Rather would I be smitten through the body with honour , so and I had not my death thereof , than lose with shame a single hair of my beard . 
V. Lancelot departeth from the knight and cometh toward the castle . 
Lancelot looketh at the gateway of the castle and seeth the great door all covered with beards fastened thereon , and heads of knights in great plenty hung thereby . 
So , as he was about to enter the gate , two knights issue therefrom over against him . 
Sir , saith the one , Abide and pay your toll ! Do knights , then , pay toll here ? saith Lancelot . 
Yea ! say the knights , All they that have beards , and they that have none are quit . 
Sir , now pay us yours , for a right great beard it is , and thereof have we sore need . 
For what ? saith Lancelot . 
I will tell you , saith the knight . 
There be hermits in this forest that make hair shirts thereof . 
By my head , saith Lancelot , Never shall they have hair shirt of mine , so I may help it . 
That shall they , say the knights , Of yours as of the other , or dearly shall you pay therefor ! VI . 
The other knight seeth his fellow wounded to the death , and cometh towards him with a great sweep and breaketh his spear upon his shield . 
Howbeit , Lancelot beareth him to the ground right over his horse croup and maketh him fall so heavily that he breaketh one of his legs . 
The tidings are come to the Lady of the Castle that a knight hath come to the pass that hath slain one of her knights and wounded the other . 
The Lady is come thither , and bringeth two of her damsels with her . 
She seeth Lancelot that is fain to slay the knight that lieth wounded on the ground . 
Sir , saith the Lady to Lancelot , Withdraw yourself back and slay him not , but alight and speak to me in safety . 
Lady , saith one of the maidens , I know him well . 
This is Lancelot of the Lake , the most courteous knight that is in the court of King Arthur . 
He alighteth and cometh before the Lady . 
Sir , saith she , I will forego mine ill will on condition that you harbour herewithin to night . 
Lady , saith Lancelot , I desire not your ill will , wherefore will I gladly do your pleasure . 
He setteth him within the castle and maketh his horse be led in after him , and the Lady hath the dead knight brought into the chapel and buried . 
The other she biddeth be disarmed and clothed and commandeth that his wounds be searched . 
Then maketh she Lancelot be disarmed and clad right richly in a good robe , and telleth him that she knoweth well who he is . 
Lady , saith Lancelot , It is well for me . 
The third course was brought in by knights that had but one hand and were in chains . 
After that , came other knights that had each but one foot and brought in the fourth course . 
At the fifth course came knights right fair and tall , and each brought a naked sword in his hand and presented their heads to the Lady . 
Lancelot beheld the martyrdom of these knights , and sore misliking had he of the services of such folk . 
They are risen from meat and the lady goeth to her chamber and sitteth on a couch . 
Lancelot , saith the Lady , you have seen the justice and the lordship of my castle . 
All these knights have been conquered at the passing of my door . 
Lady , saith Lancelot , foul mischance hath befallen them . 
The like mischance would have befallen you had you not been knight so good . 
And greatly have I desired to see you this long time past . 
And I will make you lord of this castle and myself . 
Lady , saith he , the lordship of this castle hold I of yourself without mesne , and to you have I neither wish nor right to refuse it . 
Rather am I willing to be at your service . 
Then , saith she , you will abide with me in this castle , for more do I love you than any other knight that liveth . 
Lady , saith Lancelot , Gramercy , but in no castle may I abide more than one night until I have been thither whither behoveth me to go . 
Whither are you bound ? saith she . 
Lady , saith he , to the Castle of Souls . 
Well know I the castle , saith she . 
The King hath the name Fisherman , and lieth in languishment on account of two knights that have been at his castle and made not good demand . 
Would you fain go thither ? saith the Lady . 
Then pledge me your faith that you will return by me to speak to me , so the Graal shall appear to you and you ask whereof it serveth . 
For you love the Queen Guenievre , the wife of your lord , King Arthur , nor so long as this love lieth at your heart may you never behold the Graal . 
Lancelot heard the damsel and blushed of despite . 
Ha , Lancelot , saith the Lady , Love you other than me ? Lady , saith he , the damsel may say her pleasure . 
Lancelot lay the night at the castle , and right wroth was he of the damsel that calleth the love of him and the Queen disloyal . 
And the way lay through the burying ground . 
Lancelot entered therein and the night was come . 
He seeth the graveyard full of tombs and sepulchres . 
He looketh behind and seeth a chapel wherein were candles burning . 
Thitherward goeth he , and passeth beyond without saying aught more by the side of a dwarf that was digging a grave in the ground . 
So will He what time you are stricken down here within ! Lancelot heard the dwarf , but deigned not to answer him of nought . 
He is come to the chapel , and alighteth and maketh fast the bridle of his horse to a tree , and leaneth his shield and spear without . 
After that he entereth into the chapel , and findeth a damsel laying out a knight in his winding sheen . 
As soon as Lancelot was entered therewithin the wounds of the knight were swollen up and began to bleed afresh . 
They alight and then set them in the chapel . 
He was in the chapel until the day broke , when he issued forth thereof , and sore it weighed upon him that his horse was still fasting . 
He taketh his arms and is mounted . 
And Lancelot taketh the horse of the knight he had slain and driveth him before him , for he thinketh that some knight may haply have need thereof . 
He rideth on until he cometh to a hermitage in the forest where he alighteth and hath his horses stabled , and the Hermit giveth them of the best he hath . 
And Lancelot heard mass , and afterward are a little and fell on sleep . 
Thereafter , behold you , a knight that cometh to the Hermit and seeth Lancelot that was about to mount . 
Salute the two damsels for me , saith Lancelot . 
Sir , right willingly ! The knight delivereth the horse to his squire , and taketh leave of Lancelot . 
Lancelot looketh before him and seeth a city appear far away . 
Thither rideth he full speed and seeth that the city is so great that it seemeth him to encompass a whole country . 
He seeth the walls that are falling all around , and the gates ruined with age . 
He rideth amidst the streets , and findeth a great palace that seemeth him to be better and more ancient than all the others . 
He bideth awhile before it and heareth within how knights and ladies are making great dole . 
The knights and ladies swoon over him as he departeth . 
Lancelot hath heard all this and much marvelleth he thereof , but nought thereof may he see . 
The knight was of great comeliness and young of age . 
Lancelot seeth him coming , and looketh upon him right fainly when he seeth him appear . 
And the knight saith to him , Sir , alight ! Certes , saith Lancelot , Willingly . 
He alighteth and maketh his horse fast to a ring of silver that was on the mounting stage , and putteth his shield from his neck and his spear from his hand . 
Certes , saith the Knight , In no otherwise may you go hence . 
By my head , saith Lancelot , Needeth no argument that I shall choose respite of death to dying here on the spot . 
But I marvel me of this that you are so fairly apparelled to receive your death . 
Sir , saith the Knight , He that would go before the Saviour of the World ought of right to apparel him as fairly as he may . 
Therewithal he holdeth forth the axe , and Lancelot taketh it and seeth that it is right keen and well whetted . 
Sir , saith the Knight , Hold up your hand toward the minster that you see yonder . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , Willingly . 
The Knight fell to the ground when his head was cut off , and Lancelot flung down the axe , and thinketh that he will make but an ill stay there for himself . 
Lancelot hath heard and understood all that the knights say and the ladies , and issueth forth of the city . 
But the good Hermit the good King had given him the name of Parluifet , for that he was made of himself . 
King Hermit was one day gone into the forest , and the good knight Parluifet felt himself sounder of health and lustier than he wont to be . 
He felt courage in his heart and lustiness in his limbs and fainness in his thought . 
Right soon armeth he himself and setteth the saddle on his horse and mounteth forthwith . 
He prayeth God give him adventure that he may meet good knight , setteth himself forth of his uncle's hermitage and entereth into the forest that was broad and shady . 
He rideth until he cometh into a launde that was right spacious , and seeth a leafy tree that was at the head of the launde . 
He alighteth in the shadow , and thinketh to himself that two knights might joust on this bit of ground fair and well , for the place was right broad . 
For I know not now what strength I may have , nor even whether my heart be sound and my limbs whole . 
Grant now that he slay me not , nor I him ! II . 
Therewithal , he looketh before him , and seeth the knight issue from the forest and enter into the launde . 
The knight was armed and had at his neck a white shield with a cross of gold . 
He carried his lance low , and sate upon a great destrier and rode at a swift pace . 
He goeth toward Perceval as fast as his horse may carry him and Perceval toward him . 
They mell together upon their shields right stiffly , so that they pierce and batter them with the points of their spears . 
They drew their swords with a right great sweep . 
Right tough was the battle and right horrible , for good knights were both twain . 
She was starred in the midst of her forehead with a red cross . 
Josephus the good clerk witnesseth us that this same mule had belonged to Joseph of Abarimacie at the time he was Pilate's soldier , and that he bequeathed her to King Pelles . 
King Hermit departeth from the hermitage and prayeth God grant him to find his nephew . 
He goeth through the forest and rideth until he draweth nigh the launde where the two knights were . 
He heareth the strokes of the swords , and cometh towards them full speed and setteth him between the twain to forbid them . 
Fair Sir , saith the Hermit , And you , who are you ? Sir , saith the knight , I will tell you . 
I am the son of King Ban of Benoic . 
Ha , fair nephew , saith King Hermit to Perceval , See here your cousin , for King Ban of Benoic was your father's cousin german . 
Make him right great cheer ! He maketh them take off their helmets and lower their ventails , and then kiss one another , afterward he leadeth them to his hermitage . 
He calleth his own squire that waited upon him , and made them be disarmed right tenderly . 
There was a damsel within that was cousin german to King Pelles and had tended Perceval within in his sickness . 
She washeth their wounds right sweetly and cleanseth them of the blood . 
And they see that Lancelot is sorer wounded than Perceval . 
Damsel , saith the Hermit , How seemeth you ? Sir , saith she , Needs must this knight sojourn here , for his wound is in a right perilous place . 
Hath he danger of death ? Sir , saith she , In no wise of this wound , but behoveth him take good heed thereto . 
God be praised ! saith he , and of my nephew how seemeth you ? Sir , the wound that he hath will be soon healed . 
He will have none ill thereof . 
And he seeth the shield hang on the column in the midst of the hall that the Damsel of the Car had brought thither . 
The squire knoweth it well , and kneeleth before the King and saluteth him , and the King returneth his salute and asketh who he is . 
As gladly would I , saith the King , so that no evil came to him thereof , for he is the knight of the world that I most desire . 
Sir , saith the Squire , Well behoveth me to hate him for that he slew my father . 
He that ought to bear this shield was squire when he slew him , wherefore am I the more sorrowful for that I thought to be avenged upon him squire . 
But this I may not do , wherefore I pray you for God's sake that you will make me knight , for the like favour are you accustomed to grant unto others . 
What is your name , fair friend ? saith the King . 
Sir , saith he , I am called Clamados of the Shadows . 
I say not this for the hindering of the squire's advancement , but that you may do nought whereof the Good Knight may have cause of complaint against you . 
Lady , saith Messire Gawain , So you are content , I am happy . 
He sojourned therein long time , and , was much honoured of the King and all the barons . 
He was every day on the watch for the Good Knight that should come for the shield , but the hour and the place were not as yet . 
He rideth amidst the great forests bearing a red shield like as did his father , and he was all armed as for defending of his body . 
Clamodos heareth the damsel and cometh thitherward . 
When they espied him , great joy have they thereof and rise up to meet him . 
Sir , say they , Welcome may you be ! Damsels , saith he , Good adventure may you have ! And whom await you here ? saith he . 
We await , saith the Mistress of the damsels , some knight that shall clear this pass , for no knight durst pass hereby . 
What is the pass then , damsel ? saith he . 
It is the one of a lion , and a lion , moreover , so fell and horrible that never was none seen more cruel . 
And there is a knight with the lion between the two mountains that is right good knight and hardy and comely . 
Howbeit none durst pass without great company of folk . 
But the knight that hath repair with the lion is seldom there , for so he were there we need fear no danger , for much courtesy is there in him and valour . 
And the knight looketh and seeth in the shadow of the forest three fair stags harnessed to a car . 
Ha , saith he , you are the Damsel of the Car , wherefore may you well tell me tidings of the knight of whom I am in quest . 
Who is he ? saith the Damsel . 
It is he that should bear a shield banded argent and azure with a red cross . 
Of him am I likewise in quest , saith the Damsel please God , we shall hear tidings of him betimes . 
Damsel saith the knight , that would I. And for that you are in quest of him as am I likewise , I will convoy you beyond this pass . 
Clamados looketh and seeth the hall within an enclosure and seeth the lion that lay at the entrance of the gateway . 
As soon as he espieth Clamados and the damsels , he cometh toward them full speed , mouth open and ears pricked up . 
Sir , saith the Damsel , and you defend not your horse on foot , he is dead at the first onset . 
Clamados is alighted to his feet , by her counsel , and holdeth his spear in his fist , and the lion rampeth toward him all in a fury . 
Clamados receiveth him on the point of his spear , and smiteth him therewith so stoutly that it passeth a fathom beyond his neck . 
He draweth back his spear without breaking it , and thinketh to smite him again . 
But the grip was sore grievous , for he rendeth his habergeon in twain and so teareth away as much flesh as he can claw hold on . 
Then he draweth his sword and thrusteth it to the heart right through the breast . 
The lion roareth so loud that all the mountains resound thereof . 
Clamados cutteth off his head and goeth to hang it at the door of the hall . 
Then he cometh back to his horse and mounteth the best he may . 
And the Damsel saith to him , Sir , you are sore wounded . 
Damsel , said he , please God , I shall take no hurt thereof . 
Thereupon , behold you a squire that issueth forth of the hall and cometh after him full speed . 
And your lord loved him so much he should have chained him up , for better liketh me that I slew him than that he should slay me . 
And what name hath your lord , fair friend ? saith Clamados . 
Sir , he is called Meliot of Logres , and he is gone in quest of Messire Gawain , of whom he holdeth the land , for right dear is he to him . 
Messire Gawain , saith Clamados , left I at the court of King Arthur , but behoveth him depart thence or ever I return thither . 
By my head , saith the squire , faith would I you might meet them both twain , if only my lord knew that you had slain him his lion . 
Clamados alighteth , that was right sore wounded . 
The Damsel of the Car was received with right great joy . 
Two of the damsels come to Clamados , of whom make they right great joy . 
Afterward they lead him to a tent and made disarm him . 
Then they washed his wounds right sweetly and tenderly . 
Then they brought him a right rich robe and made him be apparelled therein , and led him before the ladies of the tents , that made right great joy of him . 
And now is there nought in the world I more desire to see . 
Lady , saith Clamados , Who is this Good Knight ? The son of the Widow Lady of the Valleys of Camelot , saith she . 
Tell me , Lady , do you say that he will come hither presently ? So methinketh , saith she . 
The damsels of the tents make right great joy of him when they know the tidings that he is so nigh of kin to the Lady of the Tents . 
And he sojourned therewithin until that he was whole and heal , awaiting the coming of the knight of whom he had heard the tidings . 
For the highness of the lineage whereof the Good Knight was descended ought one willingly to hear brought to mind and recorded the words that are of him . 
He entereth into the castle and alighteth . 
When he seeth Perceval alighted , he runneth to bar the door , and Perceval cometh over against him . 
For all greeting , the knight saluteth him thus Now shall you have , saith he , such guerdon as you have deserved . 
But lodge me this night as behoveth one knight do for another , and on the morrow at departing let each do the best he may . 
By my head ! saith Chaos the Red , mortal enemy of mine will I never harbour here save I harbour him dead . 
And the blow slippeth down on to the shield , so that it is cleft right down to the boss . 
Perceval felt his neck stiff and heavy , and feeleth that the knight is sturdy and of great might . 
His household and servants were at the windows of the hall . 
Readily do I grant it you , saith Perceval . 
They bear the body to a chapel , then they disarm him and wind him in his shroud . 
And what is the name of this castle ? Sir , it hath for name the Key of Wales , for it is the gateway of the land . 
Perceval lay the night in the castle he had reconquered for his mother , and the morrow , when he was armed , he departed . 
These promised that they would keep the castle loyally and would deliver it up to his mother at her will . 
He rode until he came to the tents where the damsels were , and drew rein and listened . 
But there was not so great joy as when the damsel that rode like a knight and led the Car came thither with Clamados . 
Great dole heard he that was made , and beating of palms . 
Wherefore he bethought him what folk they might be . 
Natheless he was not minded to draw back without entering . 
Sir , saith she , welcome may you be ! Let who will make dole , I will make joy of your coming ! XII . 
Then she leadeth him to the Queen of the Tents that was still making great dole . 
Ha , saith the Lady , He hath slain me the best knight of all my kin , and the one that protected me from mine enemies . 
Lady , saith the Damsel , this one will be better able to protect and defend us , for the Best Knight is he of the world and the comeliest . 
The Queen taketh him by the hand and maketh him sit beside her . 
Sir , saith she , Howsoever the adventure may have befallen , my heart biddeth me make joy of your coming . 
Lady , saith he , Gramercy ! Chaos would fain have slain me within his castle , and I defended myself to my power . 
The Queen looketh at him amidst his face , and is taken with a love of him so passing strong and fervent that she goeth nigh to fall upon him . 
Sir , saith she , and you will grant me your love , I will pardon you of all the death of Chaos the Red . 
Lady , saith he , your love am I right fain to deserve , and mine you have . 
Sir , saith she , How may I perceive that you love me ? Lady , saith he , I will tell you . 
There is no knight in the world that shall desire to do you a wrong , but I will help you against him to my power . 
Such love , saith she , is the common love that knight ought to bear to lady . 
Would you do as much for another ? Lady , saith he , It well may be , but more readily shall a man give help in one place than in another . 
But Perceval never once thought of loving her or another in such wise . 
But in no wise might she refrain her heart , nor withdraw her eyes , nor lose her desire . 
The damsels looked upon her with wonder that so soon had she forgotten her mourning . 
Thereupon , behold you Clamados , that had been told that this was the knight that , as yet only squire , had slain his father and put Chaos his uncle to death . 
He cometh into the tent and seeth him sitting beside the Queen , that looked at him right sweetly . 
Lady , saith he , Great shame do you to yourself , in that you have seated at your side your own mortal enemy and mine . 
Never again henceforth ought any to have affiance in your love nor in your help . 
Clamados , saith the Queen , the knight hath thrown himself upon me suddenly . 
Wherefore ought I do him no evil , rather behoveth me lodge him and keep his body in safety . 
Nought , moreover , hath he done whereof he might be adjudged of murder nor of treason . 
Therefore do I appeal and pray you to do me my right , not as being of your kindred , but as stranger . 
For right willing am I that kinship shall avail me nought herein . 
Perceval looketh at the knight and seeth that he is of right goodly complexion of body and right comely of face . 
Clamados cometh forward to proffer his gage . 
By my head , saith the Queen , not this day shall gage be received herein . 
But to morrow will come day , and counsel therewith , and then shall fight be done to each . 
But it only irketh her the more that she may not find in him any sign of special liking toward herself neither in deed nor word , whereof is she beyond measure sorrowful . 
The knights and damsels lay the night in the tents until the morrow , and went to hear mass in a chapel that was in the midst of the tents . 
When mass was sung , straightway behold you , a knight that cometh all armed , bearing a white shield at his neck . 
Wherefore I pray and require you , for the love of Messire Gawain , whose man I am , that you do me right herein . 
What is the knight's name ? saith the Queen . 
Lady , saith he , He is called Clamados of the Shadows , and methinketh I see him yonder , for I knew him when he was squire . 
And what is your name ? saith the Queen . 
Lady , I am called Melior of Logres . 
Lady , saith Melior , I would fain go . 
I know not toward whom the knight proffereth his gage , but him do I appeal of felony for my lion that he hath slain . 
He taketh in his hand the skirt of his habergeon Lady , behold here the gage I offer you . 
Clamados , saith the Queen , Hear you then not that which this knight saith ? Lady , saith he , I hear him well . 
Truth it is that I slew his lion , but not until after he had fallen upon me , and made the wounds whereof I have been healed herewithin . 
But well you know that the knight who came hither last night hath done me greater wrong than have I done this other . 
Wherefore would I pray you that I may take vengeance of him first . 
You hear , saith she , how this knight that hath come hither all armed is fain to go back forthwith . 
Quit you , therefore , of him first , and then will we take thought of the other . 
Lady , gramercy ! saith Meliot , and Messire Gawain will take it in right good part , for this knight hath slain my lion that defended me from all my enemies . 
Nor is it true that the entrance to your tent was deserted on account of my lion and in despite of me hath he hung the head at my gate . 
Clamados maketh arm him and mounteth on his horse , and he seemeth right hardy of his arms and valorous . 
And the ladies and damsels were round about the tilting ground . 
Sir , saith the Queen to Perceval , I will that you keep the field for these knights . 
Lady , saith he , At your pleasure . 
They hurtle against each other so strongly that knights and horses fall together to the ground all in a heap . 
The Queen and the damsels have great pity of the two knights , for they see that they are both so passing sore wounded . 
The two knights rise to their feet and hold their swords naked and run the one on the other right wrathfully , with such force as they had left . 
Sir , saith the Queen to Perceval , Go part these two knights asunder that one slay not the other , for they are sore wounded . 
Perceval goeth to part them and cometh to Meliot of Logres . 
Sir , saith he , Withdraw yourself back you have done enough . 
Clamados felt that he was sore wounded in two places , and that the wound he had in his breast was right great . 
The Queen is come thither . 
Fair nephew , saith she , Are you badly wounded ? Yea , Lady , saith Clamados . 
Certes , saith the Queen , this grieveth me , but never yet saw I knight and he were desirous of fighting , but came at some time by mischance . 
A man may not always stand on all his rights . 
So will I do , sith that it is your pleasure . 
Lady , no wish have I to depart without your leave , but rather shall I be ready to clear myself of blame whensoever and wheresoever time and place may be . 
But herewithin may I make not so long sojourn . 
Natheless to this will I pledge my word , that I will return thither within a term of fifteen days from the time he shall be whole . 
Sir , saith the Damsel of the Car , I will remain here in hostage for you . 
But do you pray him , saith the Queen , that he remain herewithin with us . 
Lady , saith Perceval , I may not , for I left Lancelot wounded right sore in my uncle's hermitage . 
Sir , saith the Queen , I would fain that remaining here might have pleased you as well as it would me . 
For right well should I love your coming . 
Lady , saith he , never shall be the day my services shall fail you , so I be in place , and you in need thereof . 
He taketh leave and departeth , armed . 
But his uncle telleth him that he hath departed all sound and all heal of his wound , as of all other malady , as him thinketh . 
Another branch of the Graal again beginneth in the name of the Father , and of the Son , and of the Holy Ghost . 
Thitherward goeth he , and the knight and damsels rise up to meet him , and Lancelot alighteth . 
Sir , saith the Vavasour , Welcome may you be . 
The damsels make great joy of him and lead him into the castle . 
Sir , saith the Vavasour , Sore need had we of your coming . 
He maketh him go up into the hall above and be disarmed of his arms . 
Sir , saith the Vavasour , Now may you see great pity of these two damsels that are my daughters . 
A certain man would reave them of this castle for that no aid nor succour have they save of me alone . 
And you seem to be of so great valiance that you will defend me well herein to morrow , for the truce cometh to an end to night . 
They fall at his feet weeping , and pray him of mercy that they may not be disherited . 
And he raiseth them forthwith , as one that hath great pity thereof . 
Damsels , saith he , I will aid you to my power . 
But I would fain that the term be not long . 
Sir , say they , to morrow is the day , and to morrow , so we have no knight to meet him that challengeth this castle , we shall have lost it . 
And our father is an old knight , and hath no longer lustihood nor force whereby he might defend it for us , and all of our lineage are fallen and decayed . 
This hatred hath fallen on us on account of Messire Gawain , whom we harboured . 
Lancelot lay there the night within the castle and was right well lodged and worshipfully entreated . 
Sir , saith the Vavasour , the knight is come , and thinketh that within here is no defence . 
By my head , saith Lancelot , but there is , please God ! The knight bloweth another blast of his horn . 
Hearken , Sir , saith the Vavasour , It is nigh noon , and he thinketh him that none will issue hence to meet him . 
Lancelot cometh down below and findeth his horse saddled and is mounted as soon . 
Thereupon the Knight soundeth his horn again . 
Lancelot , when he heareth the blast , hath no mind to abide longer , and forthwith issueth out of the castle all armed , lance in hand and shield at his neck . 
He seeth the knight at the head of the bridge , all armed under a tree . 
Thitherward cometh Lancelot full speed . 
The knight seeth him coming , and crieth to him . 
He moveth against the knight and smiteth him on the shield with his spear and the knight him . 
Ha , saith the knight to Lancelot , withdraw a little from over me , and slay me not , and tell me your name , of your mercy . 
What have you to do with my name ? saith Lancelot . 
Sir , saith he , Gladly would I know it , for a right good knight seem you to be , and so have I well proven in the first encounter . 
Sir saith he , I am called Lancelot of the Lake . 
And what is your name ? Sir . 
saith he , I am called Marin of the castle of Gomeret . 
So am I father of Meliot of Logres . 
I pray you , by that you most love in the world , that you slay me not . 
So will I do , saith Lancelot , and you renounce not your feud against this castle . 
By my faith , saith the knight , thus do I renounce it , and I pledge myself that thenceforth for ever shall it have no disturbance of me . 
Your pledge , saith Lancelot , will I not accept save you come in thither . 
Sir , saith the knight , You have sore wounded me in such sort that I cannot mount but with right great pain . 
Lancelot thereupon receiveth his pledge to forego all claim to the castle and Marin turneth him back to Gomeret . 
The Vavasour and his daughters abide in great joy . 
As he was riding by the plain land , he looketh toward the forest and seeth the plain fair and wide and the land right level . 
He rideth all the plain , and looketh toward the city and seeth great plenty of folk issuing forth thereof . 
And with them was there much noise of bag pipes and flutes and viols and many instruments of music , and they came along the way wherein was Lancelot riding . 
When the foremost came up to him , they halted and redoubled their joy . 
Thereupon behold you the provosts and the lords of the city , and they come over against Lancelot . 
Sir , say they , All this joy is made along of you , and all these instruments of music are moved to joy and sound of gladness for your coming . 
But wherefore for me , saith Lancelot . 
That shall you know well betimes , say they . 
Wherefore have we come to meet you to give you the royalty , for we have been told that you are a good knight . 
Lords , saith Lancelot , Of such a kingdom have I no need , and God defend me from it . 
V. Much marvelleth Lancelot of this that they say . 
They come round about him on all sides and lead him into the city . 
Now will he quench the fire on New Year's Day . 
Lord ! say the most part , What great pity is it of so comely a knight that he shall end on such wise ! Be still ! say the others . 
Lancelot found the palace all strown with rushes and hung about with curtains of rich cloths of silk , and the lords of the city all apparelled to do him homage . 
But he refuseth right stoutly , and saith that their king nor their lord will he never be in no such sort . 
Thereupon behold you a dwarf that entereth into the city , leading one of the fairest dames that be in any kingdom , and asketh whereof this joy and this murmuring may be . 
They tell him they are fain to make the knight king , but that he is not minded to allow them , and they tell him the whole manner of the fire . 
The dwarf and the damsel are alighted , then they mount up to the palace . 
The dwarf calleth the provosts of the city and the greater lords . 
Therewithal they set the crown on the dwarf's head , and Lancelot maketh great joy thereof . 
He taketh his leave , and they command him to God , and so remounteth he on his horse and goeth his way through the midst of the city all armed . 
The dames and damsels say that he would not be king for that he had no mind to die so soon . 
When he came forth of the city right well pleased was he . 
He entereth a great forest and rideth on till daylight began to fall , and seeth before him a hermitage newly stablished , for the house and the chapel were all builded new . 
He cometh thitherward and alighteth to lodge . 
The hermit , that was young without beard or other hair on his face , issued from his chapel . 
Sir , saith he to Lancelot , you are he that is welcome . 
And you , sir , good adventure to you , saith Lancelot . 
Never have I seen hermit so young as you . 
Sir , of this only do I repent me , that I came not hither ere now . 
Therewith he maketh his horse be stabled , and leadeth him into his hermitage , and so maketh disarm him and setteth him at ease as much as he may . 
And is the knight healed , then ? saith the hermit . 
Yea , Sir , saith Lancelot , Whereof is right great joy . 
And wherefore do you ask me ? Well ought I to ask it , saith the hermit , For my father is King Pelles , and his mother is my father's own sister . 
Ha , Sir , then is the King Hermit your father ? Yea , Sir , certes . 
Thereof do I love you the better , saith Lancelot , For never found I any man that hath done me so much of love as hath he . 
Sir , saith the hermit , Right close are we akin , I and you . 
By my head , saith Lancelot , Hereof am I right glad at heart . 
Lancelot looketh and seeth in the hermit's house shield and spear , javelins and habergeon . 
So , when robbers come hither , we defend ourselves therewith . 
But hermits , methought , never assaulted nor wounded nor slew . 
Sir , saith the hermit , God forbid I should wound any man or slay ! And how , then , do you defend yourselves ? saith Lancelot . 
Sir , I will tell you thereof . 
When robbers come to us , we arm ourselves accordingly . 
If I may catch hold of any in my hands , he cannot escape me . 
Our squire is so well grown and hardy that he slayeth him forthwith or handleth him in such sort that he may never help himself after . 
By my head , saith Lancelot , Were you not hermit , you would be valiant throughout . 
By my head , saith the squire . 
You say true , for methinketh there is none so strong nor so hardy as he in all the kingdom of Logres . 
The lodged Lancelot the night the best he could . 
When as they were in their first sleep , come four robber knights of the forest that knew how a knight was lodged therewithin , and had coveted his horse and his arms . 
The hermit that was in his chapel saw them first , and awoke his squire and made him bring his arms all secretly then he made his squire arm . 
Sir , saith the squire , Shall I waken the knight ? In nowise , saith the hermit , until such time as we shall know wherefore . 
The hermit crieth out the squire cometh forward and thereupon beareth one to the ground with his spear . 
The hermit seizeth him and bindeth him to a tree so strait that he may not move . 
The other three think to defend them and to rescue their fellow . 
But of them were some that were wounded right sore . 
Sir , saith the hermit to Lancelot , It grieveth me that you have been awakened . 
Rather , saith Lancelot , have you done me great wrong for that you ought to have awakened me sooner . 
Sir , saith the hermit , We have assaults such as this often enough . 
The four robbers cry mercy of Lancelot that he will pray the hermit to have pity upon them . 
Lancelot cometh back again and taketh leave of Joseus the young hermit , and saith it is great loss to the world that he is not knight . 
Sir , saith the squire , to me is it great joy , for many a man should suffer thereby . 
There was a knight within in the midst of the boat that was fishing with an angle , the rod whereof seemeth of gold , and right great fish he took . 
A little cock boat followed the boat , wherein he set the fish he took . 
Lancelot cometh anigh the bank the swiftest he may , and so saluteth the knights and damsels , and they return his salute right sweetly . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , it seemeth to me the fairest sin and the sweetest that ever I committed . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , this sin will I reveal to you of my lips , but of my heart may I never repent me thereof . 
I love my Lady , which is the Queen , more than aught else that liveth , and albeit one of the best Kings on live hath her to wife . 
Of the seven deadly sins , you are labouring under the one whereof the delights are the falsest of any , wherefore dearly shall you aby thereof , save you repent you forthwith . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , never the more do I desire to cast it from me . 
As much , saith the hermit , is that as to say that you ought long since to have cast it from you and renounced it . 
For of that which is of little worth is the loss not so great as of that which is much worth . 
Lancelot taketh leave of the hermit , and is mounted forthwith and departeth from the hermitage . 
And evening draweth on , and he seeth that it is time to lodge him . 
And he espieth before him the castle of the rich King Fisherman . 
He seeth the bridges , broad and long , but they seem not to him the same as they had seemed to Messire Gawain . 
Lancelot thinketh that sith Messire Gawain had passed through amidst the lions , he would do likewise . 
He goeth toward the gateway , and the lions that were unchained prick up their ears and look at him . 
Howbeit Lancelot goeth his way between them without heeding them , and neither of them was fain to do him any hurt . 
He alighteth before the master palace , and mounteth upward all armed . 
Two damsels bring him a right rich robe and make him be apparelled therewithal . 
The knights lead him before King Fisherman in a chamber where he lay right richly . 
Lancelot saluteth him right nobly , and the King answereth him full fairly as one that is a right worshipful man . 
Sir , saith the King , They tell me he is a right good knight ? Sir , saith Lancelot , He is the best knight of the world . 
I myself have felt the goodness of his knighthood and his valour , for right sorely did he wound me or ever I knew him or he me . 
And what is your name ? saith the King . 
Sir , I am called Lancelot of the Lake , King Ban's son of Benoic . 
Behold there the chapel where the most Holy Graal taketh his rest , that appeared to two knights that have been herewithin . 
I know not what was the name of the first , but never saw I any so gentle and quiet , nor had better likelihood to be good knight . 
It was through him that I have fallen into languishment . 
The second was Messire Gawain . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , the first was Perceval your nephew . 
And his sister hath gone in quest of him throughout all kingdoms . 
King Fisherman is right joyous of the tidings he hath heard of his nephew , wherefore he maketh Lancelot be honoured greatly . 
The knights seat them in the hall at a table of ivory at meat , and the King remaineth in his chamber . 
When they had washen , the table was dight of rich sets of vessels of gold and silver , and they were served of rich meats of venison of hart and wild boar . 
But the story witnesseth that the Graal appeared not at this feast . 
When they had eaten they rose from the tables . 
Two damsels waited on Lancelot at his going to bed , and he lay on a right rich couch , nor were they willing to depart until such time as he was asleep . 
He rose on the morrow as soon as he saw the day , and went to hear mass . 
The damsel came weeping by the side of the knight and prayed him oftentimes that he would have mercy upon her . 
The knight is still and holdeth his peace , and saith never a word . 
Ha , Sir , saith the damsel to Lancelot , Be pleased to beseech this knight on my behalf . 
In what manner ? saith Lancelot . 
Sir , saith she , I will tell you . 
But my father is of greater power and riches than is he , and therefore was not willing to allow the marriage . 
Wherefore come I with him in this manner , for I love him better than ever another knight beside . 
Now will he do nought of that he had me in covenant to do , for he loveth another , better , methinketh , than me . 
And this hath he done , as I surmise , to do shame to my friends and to me . 
Lancelot seeth the damsel of right great beauty and weeping tenderly , whereof hath he passing great pity . 
This will be a right worshipful deed , and I pray and beseech that you do it , and thereof shall I be much beholden unto you . 
Sir , saith the knight , I have no will thereunto , nor for no man will I do it , for ill would it beseem me . 
And whither , then , mean you to take her ? saith Lancelot . 
But for God's sake pray him that he do me the honour he hath promised me . 
Sir Knight , will you do this whereof you had the damsel in covenant ? Sir , saith the knight , I have told you plainly that I will not . 
For promise that knight maketh to dame or damsel behoveth him to keep . 
He draweth his sword and would have come toward him , when the knight cometh over against him and saith to him Slay me not . 
Tell me rather what you would have me do ? I would , saith he , that you take the damsel to wife without denial . 
Sir , saith he , it pleaseth me better to take her than to die . 
Sir , I will do your will . 
I thank you much therefor , saith Lancelot . 
I will , well that so it be , saith Lancelot , for love of you . 
They ride together right through the forest , until they came to a chapel at a hermitage , and the hermit wedded them and made much joy thereof . 
Sir , saith she , My father's hold is not far away . 
Lady , saith Lancelot , Willingly will I go sith that you beseech me thereof . 
Lancelot is gone on before and alighteth . 
The Vavasour riseth up to meet him , and Lancelot recounteth unto him how his daughter hath been wedded , and that he hath been at the wedding . 
Thereof the Vavasour maketh right great joy . 
Therewithal , behold you , the knight and the Vavasour s daughter that are straightway alighted , and the Vavasour thanketh Lancelot much of the honour he hath done his daughter . 
Therewith he departeth from the castle and rideth amidst the forest the day long , and meeteth a damsel and a dwarf that came a great gallop . 
Sir , saith the damsel to Lancelot , From whence come you ? Damsel , saith he , I come from the Vavasour's castle that is in this forest . 
Did you meet , saith she , a knight and a damsel on your way ? Yea , saith Lancelot , He hath wedded her . 
Say you true ? saith she . 
I tell you true , saith Lancelot , But had I not been there , he would not have wedded her . 
Shame and ill adventure may you have thereof , for you have reft me of the thing in the world that most I loved . 
Damsel , saith Lancelot , true it is that I was there , but I departed from the grave yard , honour safe . 
True , saith the dwarf , For the knights that were there were craven , and failed . 
Fair friend , saith Lancelot , Rather would I they should be coward toward me than hardy . 
Thereupon the dwarf smiteth the mule with his whip , and she departeth . 
King Hermit is right joyous thereof , and asketh him of his nephew , and he telleth him he hath seen him not since he departed thence . 
King Hermit asketh him whether he hath seen the Graal , and he telleth him he hath seen it not at all . 
I know well , saith the King , wherefore this was so . 
And you had had the like desire to see the Graal that you have to see the Queen , the Graal would you have seen . 
For in herself hath she all honourable conditions that a lady may have . 
God grant you good issue therein , saith King Hermit , and that you do nought whereof He may visit you with His wrath at the Day of Judgment . 
But , or ever he entered into the land of the Queen of the Tents , he met the Damsel of the Car that was coming thence . 
She made right great joy of him , and told him that Clamados was dead of the wound that Meliot of Logres had dealt him , and that Meliot of Logres was heal . 
She goeth seeking for you by all the kingdoms and strange countries in sore mis ease , nor may she find any to tell her tidings of you . 
He seeth a knight issue from the castle and asketh whose hold it is , and he telleth him that it belonged to the Queen of the Maidens . 
He cometh thitherward , but never a knight nor dame was there that gave him greeting of any kind . 
So he saluted them at large . 
A knight cometh to open it and he entereth in . 
Sir Knight , welcome may you be ! Good adventure may you have ! saith Perceval . 
He lowereth his ventail and taketh off his helm . 
The knight leadeth him to the Queen's chamber , and she riseth to meet him , and maketh great joy of him , and maketh him sit beside her all armed . 
With that , cometh a damsel and kneeleth before the Queen and saith Lady , behold here the knight that was first at the Graal . 
I saw him in the court of the Queen of the Tents , there where he was appeached of treason and murder . 
Now haste , saith the Queen to the knight , Let sound the ivory horn upon the castle . 
The knights and damsels that were sitting on the steps leapt up , and make right great joy , and the other knights likewise . 
They say that now they know well that they have done their penance . 
Thereupon they enter into the hall , and the Lady issueth from her chamber and taketh Perceval by the hand and goeth to meet them . 
She maketh disarm him , and bring the rich robe of cloth of silk to apparel him . 
Wherefore ought you not to marvel that they make joy of your coming . 
She taketh Perceval by the hand and leadeth him to the windows of the hall that were nighest the sea . 
And here below , see , are my gallies that defend us thereof . 
Perceval , as the history telleth , was much honoured at the castle of the Queen of the Maidens , that was right passing fair . 
So long was he at the castle as that he heard tell his uncle was arrived at the island whither he wont to come . 
But had he known that it was Perceval , he would not have marvelled . 
Thereupon the galley taketh the ground and Perceval is issued forth . 
The Queen and the knights and her maidens are come to the windows of the castle to behold the bearing of the nephew and the uncle . 
The Queen would have sent over some of her knights with him , but Perceval would not . 
The King of Castle Mortal was tall and strong and hardy . 
He seeth his nephew come all armed , but knoweth him not . 
Howbeit , the King spareth him not , but smiteth him so passing stoutly that he had his helm all dinted in thereby . 
The King himself giveth him blows so heavy that the Queen and all they that were at the windows marvelled how Perceval might abide such buffets . 
The King took witting of the shield that Perceval bare , and looketh on it of a long space . 
Did your father , then , bear a red shield with a white hart ? Yea , saith Perceval , Many a day . 
Was your father , then , King Alain of the Valleys of Camelot ? My father was he without fail . 
No blame ought I to have of him , for a good knight was he and a loyal . 
Are you the son of Yglais my sister , that was his wife ? Yea ! saith Perceval . 
Then are you my nephew , saith the King of Castle Mortal , For she was my sister . 
For God loveth not you so much as He doth him , and so long as you war upon him , you do I defy and hold you as mine enemy . 
He misdoubteth him sore of his strength and his great hardiment . 
He hath well proven and essayed that he is the Best Knight of the world . 
He durst no longer abide his blows , but rather he turneth him full speed toward his galley , and leapeth thereinto forthwith . 
He pusheth out from the shore incontinent , and Perceval followeth him right to the beach , full heavy that he hath gotten him away . 
The Queen asketh him how it is with him and whether he is wounded ? Lady , saith he , Not at all , thank God . 
TITLE I. Now is the story silent about Perceval , and saith that King Arthur is at Pannenoisance in Wales with great plenty of knights . 
Lancelot and Messire Gawain are repaired thither , whereof all the folk make great joy . 
But , and the King had only known how Kay had wrought against him , he would not have so highly honoured his chivalry and his hardiment . 
The King sate one day at meat and Queen Guenievre at his side . 
Thereupon behold you , a damsel that alighteth before the palace , then mounteth the steps of the hall and is come before the King and the Queen . 
Damsel , saith the King , God counsel you of His will and pleasure , and I myself am full fain to partake therein . 
The damsel looketh at the shield that hangeth in the midst of the hall . 
Sir , saith she , I beseech you that you deign grant me the aid of the knight that shall bear this shield from hence . 
For sorer need have I thereof than ever another of them that are discounselled . 
Damsel , saith the King , Full well shall I be pleased , so the knight be also fain to do as you say . 
Therefore to my sorrow , behoveth me to ride all lonely by the strange islands and put my body in jeopardy of death , whereof ought these knights to have great pity . 
Damsel , saith the King , For this reason do I refuse you nought of that you wish , and right willingly will I put myself to trouble herein . 
Sir , saith she , much thanks to God thereof ! He maketh her be set at meat , and much honour be done her . 
When the cloths were drawn , the Queen leadeth her into her chamber with the maidens , and maketh much joy of her . 
The brachet that was brought thither with the shield was lying on a couch of straw . 
The Queen asked her whether she knew him . 
Certes , Lady , no , for never , so far as I know , have I seen him before . 
The brachet will not leave her , but will be always on her lap , nor can she move anywhither but he followeth her . 
The Queen asked her one day who her brother was . 
Lady , saith she , one of the best knights of the world , whereof have I heard witness . 
But he departed from my father's and mother's hostel a right young squire . 
The very castle wherein she hath her hold would he have seized long agone had it not been for Messire Gawain that made it be safe guarded against her enemies for a year . 
The term is now ended and my Lady mother is in dread lest she shall lose her castle , for none other hold hath she . 
So shall he be , please God , for never was good knight that was without pity . 
The King lay one night beside the Queen , and was awoke from his first sleep so that he might not go to sleep again . 
Much he marvelled what it might be . 
The longer he looketh at it , the better perceiveth he that it is a ship , and that it was coming with great rushing toward the castle as fast as it might . 
The ship was covered of a right rich cloth in the midst and the sail was lowered , for the sea was calm and quiet . 
The ship was arrived under the palace and was quite still . 
When the ship had taken ground , the King looketh thereat with much marvelling , and knoweth not who is there within , for not a soul heareth he speak . 
The King draweth nigh toward him and so looketh at him , and seemed him that never had he seen so comely a knight . 
Sir , saith the master of the ship , For God's sake draw you back and let the knight rest , for thereof hath he sore need . 
Sir , saith the King , who is the knight ? Sir , this would he well tell you were he willing , but of me may you know it not . 
Will he depart forthwith from hence ? saith the King . 
Sir , saith the master , Not before he hath been in this hall , but he hath had sore travail and therefore he taketh rest . 
When the King heard say that he would come into his palace , thereof had he great joy . 
He cometh to the Queen's chamber and telleth her how the ship is arrived . 
Sir , saith the Queen , Well may you be welcome ! Lady , saith he , God grant you joy and good adventure . 
The brachet that was in the hall heareth the knight . 
He cometh racing toward him and leapeth about his legs and maketh great joy of him . 
And the knight playeth with him , then taketh the shield that hung at the column , and hangeth the other there , and cometh back thereafter toward the door of the hall . 
Lady , saith the King , Pray the knight that he go not so hastily . 
Sir , saith the knight , No leisure have I to abide , but at some time shall you see me again . 
The knights also say as much , and the King and Queen are right heavy of his departure , but they durst not press him beyond his will . 
He is entered into the ship , and the brachet with him . 
The master draweth the boat within , and so they depart and leave the castle behind . 
King Arthur abideth at Pannenoisance , and is right sorrowful of the knight , that he hath gone his way so soon . 
The damsel that had asked the boon cometh to the King . 
And I was with him at the house of King Hermit a long space until that I was healed . 
Sir , saith the Queen , You will do a right great service and you may counsel her herein , for sore discounselled is she . 
She hath told me that she was daughter of Alain li Gros of the Valleys of Camelot , and that her mother's name is Yglais , and her own Dindrane . 
By my head , saith the Queen , it may well be , for so soon as she came in hither . 
And I , saith Lancelot , Never so glad have I been to see him aforetime as ! should be now . 
Howsoever it be , saith the King , I pray you so speed my business that the damsel shall not be able to plain her of me . 
Lancelot taketh the way to the right , and Messire Gawain to the left . 
Therewithal they depart and commend them one another to God . 
He rideth until the day cometh to decline , and he lay in the house of a hermit in the forest , that lodged him well . 
Sir , saith the hermit to Messire Gawain , Whom do you go seek ? Sir , saith he , I am in quest of a knight that I would see right gladly . 
Sir , saith the hermit , In this neighbourhood will you find no knight . 
And who is the one of the sea ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , Is it so long a space sithence that he hath haunted the sea ? Sir , saith the hermit , It is scarce more than a twelvemonth . 
And how nigh is this to the sea ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , saith the hermit , It is not more than two leagues Welsh . 
But I can well tell you never was knight so dreaded in this kingdom as is he . 
The Queen of the Maidens would have lost her castle ere now but for him . 
saith Messire Gawain , what shield the knight beareth ? Sir , saith the hermit , I know not now to blazon it , for nought know I of arms . 
Three score years and more have I been in this hermitage , yet never saw I this kingdom before so dismayed as is it now . 
Messire Gawain lay the night therewithin , and departed when he had heard mass . 
He draweth him as nigh the sea as he may , and rideth along beside the shore and many a time draweth rein to look forth if he might see the knight's ship . 
But nowhere might he espy it . 
He hath ridden until he cometh to the castle of the Queen of the Maidens . 
Messire Gawain is right sorrowful for that he knoweth not where to seek him albeit he hath so late tidings of him . 
He entereth into a forest that was nigh the sea , and seeth a knight coming a great gallop as if one were chasing him to slay him . 
Sir knight , saith Messire Gawain , Whither away so fast ? Sir , I am fleeing from the knight that hath slain all the others . 
And who is the knight ? saith Messire Gawain . 
I know not who he is , saith the knight , But and you go forward you are sure to find him . 
Meseemeth , saith Messire Gawain , that I have seen you aforetime . 
Need you fear nought of me , saith Messire Gawain , For I love your damsel well . 
Sir , saith the knight , I would that all the other knights would say as much in respect of me , for no fear have I save for myself alone . 
At the assembly of the knights may you find him within forty days . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , Where will the assembly be ? In the Red Launde , where will be many a good knight . 
There shall you find him without fail . 
Thereof hath Messire Gawain right great joy , and so departeth from the knight and the knight from him , and goeth back toward the sea a great gallop . 
But Messire Gawain saw not the ship whereinto he entered , for that it was anchored underneath the cliff . 
The knight entered thereinto and put out to sea as he had wont to do . 
Howbeit Messire Gawain goeth his way toward the Red Launde where the assembly was to be , and desireth much the day that it shall be . 
He rideth until he cometh one eventide nigh to a castle that was of right fair seeming . 
He met a damsel that was following after a dead knight that two other knights bare upon a horse bier , and she rode a great pace right amidst the forest . 
And Messire Gawain cometh to meet her and saluteth her , and she returned the salute as fairly as she might . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , Who lieth in this bier ? Sir , a knight that a certain man hath slain by great outrage . 
And wherefore will you take him there ? saith Messire Gawain . 
For that he that shall do best at the assembly of knights shall avenge this knight's death . 
The damsel goeth her way thereupon . 
And Messire Gawain goeth to the castle that he had seen , and found none within save only one solitary knight , old and feeble , and a squire that waited upon him . 
Howbeit , Messire Gawain alighteth at the castle . 
Wherefore I pray you that you help me to defend it against the knight . 
What shield beareth he ? saith Messire Gawain . 
He beareth a golden shield with a green cross . 
And what sort of knight is he ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , saith the Vavasour , A good knight and a hardy and a sure . 
What knight , then , do you seek ? saith the Vavasour . 
He will be at the assembly in the Red Launde . 
These tidings had I of the knight you dread so much . 
The Vavasour seeth him from the windows of the hall , and pointeth him out to Messire Gawain . 
Thereupon , behold you a damsel that cometh a great pace , and held a whip wherewith she hurrieth her mule onward , and she draweth rein there where the two knights were . 
This knight came passing hereby , that had no thought to do hurt neither to the Vavasour nor to my brother . 
The knight was right strong and hardy , and was born at the castle of Escavalon . 
My brother issued forth of the castle filled with fool hardiness for the leasing of the Vavasour , and ran upon the knight without a word . 
The knight could do no less than avenge himself . 
They hurtled together so sore that their horses fell under them and their spears passed either through other's heart . 
Thus were both twain killed on this very piece of ground . 
But our Lord God so helped me that I intermeddled not therein , for lightly might I have wrought folly . 
By the name of God , saith the other , Meseemeth it clear that the Vavasour would fain that knights should kill each other . 
Sir , saith the damsel , You say true it is of his covetise of harness and horses that he entreateth the knights on this wise . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , Whither go you ? Sir , saith she , After a knight that I have made be carried in a litter for the dead . 
I saw him , saith he , pass by here last night , full late last night . 
The knight taketh leave of Messire Gawain , and Messire Gawain saith that he holdeth himself a churl in that he hath not asked him of his name . 
But the knight said , Fair Sir , I pray you of love that you ask not my name until such time as I shall ask you of yours . 
Messire Gawain would ask nought further of the knight , and the knight entered into the Lonely Forest and Messire Gawain goeth on his way . 
He meeteth neither knight nor damsel to whom he telleth not whom he goeth to seek , and they all say that he will be in the Red Launde . 
He lodged the night with a hermit . 
At night , the hermit asked Messire Gawain whence he came ? Sir , from the land of the Queen of the Maidens . 
But a knight with a shield of gold and a green cross thereon told me that he would be at the Red Launde . 
Sir , saith the hermit , you say true , for it was he himself to whom you spake . 
Alas ! saith Messire Gawain , What ill chance is mine if this be true ! Sir , saith the hermit , I ought not to lie , neither to you nor other . 
By the brachet may you well know that this is true . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , Of custom beareth he no such shield . 
I know well , saith the hermit , what shield he ought to bear , and what shield he will bear hereafter . 
But now hath too great mischance befallen me of this quest , for twice have I seen him and found him and spoken to him , and now have I lost him again . 
Messire Gawain lay the night in the hermit's house , right sorrowful , and in the morning departed when he had heard mass . 
And all these adventures that you hear in this high record came to pass , Josephus telleth us , for the setting forward the law of the Saviour . 
All of them could he not record , but only these whereof he best remembered him , and whereof he knew for certain all the adventures by virtue of the Holy Spirit . 
This high record saith that Messire Gawain hath wandered so far that he is come into the Red Launde whereas the assembly of knights should be held . 
He looketh and seeth the tents pitched and the knights coming from all quarters . 
The most part were already armed within and before their tents . 
Messire Gawain looketh everywhere , thinking to see the knight he seeketh , but seemeth him he seeth him not , for no such shield seeth he as he beareth . 
All abashed is he thereof , for he hath seen all the tents and looked at all the arms . 
And the tournament assembleth from all parts , and the divers fellowships come the one against other , and the melly of either upon other as they come together waxeth sore and marvellous . 
The damsel is at the head of the tournament , for that she would fain know the one that shall have the mastery and the prize therein . 
He seeth the knight , but knoweth him not , for he had a white shield and cognisances of the same . 
And Messire Gawain cometh to him as fast as his horse may carry him , and the knight toward Messire Gawain . 
So passing stoutly they come together that they pierce their shields below the boss . 
But God would not that the good knights should slay each other , rather would He that the one should know the true worth of the other . 
The most part of the knights come to them and tell them that the assembly waiteth for them to come thereunto . 
They have much pains to part them asunder , and then the melly beginneth again on all sides , and the evening cometh on that parteth them at last . 
And on this wise the assembly lasted for two days . 
The damsel seeketh the knight of the white shield among the knights and throughout all the tents , but cannot find him , for already hath he departed . 
The damsel well understandeth that Messire Gawain speaketh reason . 
But he forgat to ask that one should serve thereof , whence hath sore harm befallen the land . 
He came to the court of King Arthur , where he took a shield that none ought to bear save he alone . 
Up to this time have I well known his coming and going , but nought shall I know thereof hereafter for that he hath changed the cognisance of his shield and arms . 
But again would I suffer sorer blows than I have suffered yet , so only I might be where he is . 
Sir , saith the damsel , What is your name ? Damsel , saith he , I am called Gawain . 
For when one seeth him one may recognise him not . 
Joseus made right great joy of him . 
He asked him whether he knew any tidings of the son of the Widow Lady . 
I have seen him sithence that he came from King Arthur's court but once only , and whither he is gone I know not . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , I would see him right fain . 
King Arthur sendeth for him by me . 
Sir , saith the hermit , I know not when I may see him again , for when once he departeth hence he is not easy to find . 
Lancelot entereth the chapel with the hermit , and seeth the shield that Perceval brought from King Arthur's court beside the altar . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , I see his shield yonder . 
Hide him not from me . 
I will not do so , saith the hermit . 
This shield , truly , is his , but he took with him another from hence , of gold with a green cross . 
And know you no tidings of Messire Gawain ? I have not seen Messire Gawain sithence tofore I entered into this hermitage . 
But you have fallen into sore hatred on account of the four robbers that were knights whom you hanged . 
Wherefore I pray you greatly be on your guard against them . 
So will I , saith Lancelot , please God . 
He lay the night in the hermitage , and departeth on the morrow after that he hath heard mass and prayeth God grant he may find Perceval or Messire Gawain . 
He goeth his way amidst the strange forests until that he cometh to a strong castle that was builded right seemly . 
When he saw Lancelot coming he drew up . 
Sir , saith he , Be welcome . 
Good adventure to you , saith Lancelot . 
What castle is this ? Sir , it is the Castle of the Golden Circlet . 
And I go to meet the knights and dames that come to the castle , for this day is the day ordained for the adoration of the Golden Circlet . 
What is the Golden Circlet ? saith Lancelot . 
Sir , it is the Crown of Thorns , saith the knight , that the Saviour of the world had on His head when He was set upon the Rood . 
Wherefore the Queen of this castle hath set it in gold and precious stones in such sort that the knights and dames of this kingdom come to behold it once in the year . 
But it is said that the knight that was first at the Graal shall conquer it , and therefore is no strange knight allowed to enter . 
But , so please you , I will lead you to mine own hold that is in this forest . 
Right great thanks , saith Lancelot , But as yet it is not time to take lodging . 
He goeth his way right amidst the forest , and looketh forth before him and seeth coming the damsel that hath the knight carried in the litter for the dead . 
Damsel , saith Lancelot , Be welcome . 
So also ought I to mislike me much of the knight that it standeth upon to avenge him , whom I may not find . 
Damsel , saith Lancelot , Who slew this knight ? Sir , saith she , The Lord of the Burning Dragon . 
Did he better than Messire Gawain ? saith Lancelot . 
Sir , so did they adjudge him for that he was a longer time in the assembly . 
And what shield beareth he ? saith Lancelot . 
Damsel , saith he , Did Messire Gawain know him ? Sir , not at all , whereof is he right sorrowful . 
He departeth from the damsel and rideth until the sun was set . 
He found the rocks darkling and the forest right deep and perilous of seeming . 
He rode on , troubled in thought , and weary and full of vexation . 
Many a time Looketh he to right and to left , and he may see any place where he may lodge . 
A dwarf espied him , but Lancelot saw him not . 
The robbers had another hold where was the damsel where the passing knights are deceived and entrapped . 
Now shall I have the best of him , saith she , as for mine own share in this matter , but take heed that you be garnished ready to boot . 
By my head , saith the dwarf , that will I , for , please God , he shall not escape us again , save he be dead . 
She is come upon the way , so that Lancelot hath to pass her , without her kerchief . 
She meeteth Lancelot and saluteth him and maketh him right great joy , of semblant . 
The night is dark already , and if you pass on further no hold will you find nearer than a score leagues Welsh . 
On this wise they go their way talking , as far as the hold . 
There was none therewithin save only the dwarf , for the five robber knights were in their hold at the lower end of the forest . 
The dwarf took Lancelot's horse , and stabled him , then went up into the hall above , and gave himself up wholly to serving him . 
Sir , saith the damsel , Allow yourself to be disarmed , and have full assurance of safety . 
Damsel , saith he , Small trouble is it for me to wear mine arms , and lightly may I abide it . 
Sir , saith she , Please God , you shall nor lie armed within yonder . 
Never yet did knight so that harboured therein . 
Sir , saith she , Meseemeth you are suspicious of something , but no call have you to misdoubt of aught here within , for the place is quite safe . 
I know not whether you have enemies ? Damsel , saith Lancelot , Never yet knew I knight that was loved of everybody , yet sometimes might none tell the reason thereof . 
Lancelot , so saith the story , would not disarm him , wherefore he made the table be set , and sate thereat beside the damsel at meat . 
He made his shield and his helmet and spear be brought into the hall . 
He leant back upon a rich couch that was therewithin , with his sword by his side , all armed . 
He was weary and the bed was soft , so he went to sleep . 
The damsel remained all alone with him that she hated of a right deadly hate . 
She filched away the sword that was at his side , then drew it from the scabbard , then looketh to see where she may lightliest smite him to slay him . 
The ban dogs held him so fast that he might not get away from them . 
He seeth that a greyhound bitch had hold of his sword , and she had hands like a woman , and was fain to slay him . 
And it seemed him that he snatched the sword from her and slew the greyhound bitch and the biggest and most masterful of the ban dogs and the little cur . 
Right joyous are the robbers of the tidings he telleth them . 
The dwarf bringeth them all armed to the hold . 
V. Lancelot was awake , all scared of the dream he had dreamed . 
The damsel that held the sword was the first of all to run upon him , and the five knights and the dwarf set upon him from every side . 
He perceived that it was his own sword the damsel held , the one he prized above all other . 
His spear broke as he drew it back . 
He swingeth it above him , and the four knights come back upon him . 
When the four knights saw the damsel dead , right grieved were they thereof . 
And the dwarf crieth out to them Lords , now shall it be seen how you will avenge the sore mischief done you . 
So help me God , great shame may you have and you cannot conquer a single knight . 
They run upon him again on all sides , but maugre all their heads he goeth thither where he thinketh to find his horse but him findeth he not . 
Thereby well knoweth he that the dwarf hath made away with him , wherefore he redoubled his hardiment and his wrath waxed more and more . 
And the knights were not to be lightly apaid when they saw their lord dead and the damsel that was their cousin . 
Sore buffets they dealt him of their swords the while he defended himself as best he might . 
The knights set themselves without the door and guard the issue , and Lancelot was within with them that were dead . 
He sate himself down at the top of the hall to rest him , for he was sore spent with the blows he had given and received . 
When he had rested himself awhile , he riseth to his feet and seeth that they have sate them down in the entrance to the hall . 
He mounteth up to the windows and flingeth them down them that were dead within through the windows . 
Just then the day appeared , fair and clear , and the birds began to sing amidst the forest , whereof the hall was overshadowed . 
Him thinketh he may well abide the siege as long as God shall please , for the hall was well garnished of meat in right great joints . 
He cometh back again to the cross whereas he told Lancelot he would await him so he should come thither before him . 
He went and came to and fro by the forest more than eight days to wait for him , but could hear no tidings . 
He would not return to King Arthur's court , for had he gone thither in such case , he would have had blame thereof . 
He goeth back upon the quest and saith that he will never stint therein until he shall have found both Lancelot and Perceval . 
He cometh to the hermitage of Joseus , and alighted of his horse and found the young hermit Joseus , that received him well and made full great joy of him . 
He harboured the night therewithin . 
Messire Gawain asked him tidings of Perceval , and the hermit telleth him he hath not seen him since before the assembly of the Red Launde . 
And can you tell me where I may find him ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Not I , saith the hermit , I cannot tell you whereabout he is . 
While they were talking on this wise , straightway behold you a knight coming that hath arms of azure , and alighteth at the hermitage to lodge there . 
The hermit receiveth him right gladly . 
Messire Gawain asketh him if he saw a knight with white arms ride amidst the forest . 
By my faith , saith Gawain , The knight is more sorrowful than he , for nought is there in the world he would gladlier see than him . 
The knight espieth Messire Gawain's shield and saith , Ha , Sir , methinketh you are he . 
Certes , saith Messire Gawain , you say true . 
So he showeth the shield to Messire Gawain that maketh great joy thereof . 
Ha , Sir , saith the knight of the white arms , Is your name Messire Gawain ? Fair Sir , saith he , Gawain am I called . 
Sir , saith the knight , I have not ceased to seek you for a long while past . 
They lay the night at the hermitage until after mass was sung on the morrow . 
The knight departed and Messire Gawain remained . 
Sir , saith he , Know you this knight that cometh there ! Truly , Sir , well do I know him . 
This is Perceval whom you seek , whom you so much desire to see ! God be praised thereof ! saith Messire Gawain , Inasmuch as he cometh hither . 
He goeth afoot to meet him , and Perceval alighteth so soon as he seeth him . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , Right welcome may you be ! Good joy may you have , saith Perceval . 
Sir , saith the hermit , Make great joy of him ! this is Messire Gawain , King Arthur's nephew . 
Thereof do I love him the better ! saith he . 
Honour and joy ought all they to do him that know him ! He throweth his arms on his neck , and so maketh him great joy . 
Sir , saith he , Can you tell me tidings of a knight that was in the Red Launde at the assembly of knights ? What shield beareth he ? saith Messire Gawain . 
A red shield with a golden eagle , saith Perceval . 
And more by token , never made I acquaintance with any so sturdy in battle as are he and Lancelot . 
Fair sir , it pleaseth you to say so , saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , saith Perceval to Messire Gawain , You know not how to blame any man . 
So they hold one another by the hands , and go into the hermitage . 
The King granted it her , and you bore away the shield . 
He himself would have come had we been unwilling to go . 
Sir , I have found you three times without knowing you , albeit great desire had I to see you . 
You will do honour to yourself , saith Messire Gawain . 
Thereof will you have praise with God and worship with the world . 
In God's name , saith the hermit , you speak according to the scripture , for he that honoureth not his father and mother neither believeth in God nor loveth Him . 
But if any can tell me tidings of Lancelot , right willingly shall I hear them , and take it kindly of the teller thereof . 
Sir , saith Joseus , It is but just now since he lay here within , and asked me tidings of Messire Gawain , and I told him such as I knew . 
I told him as much , but he made light thereof in semblant , even as he will in deed also if their force be not too great . 
By my head , saith Perceval , I will not depart forth of this forest until I know tidings of him , if Messire Gawain will pledge himself thereto . 
Perceval asketh him whence he cometh , that he seemeth so a dread . 
Sir , I come from the forest of the robbers that won in this forest wherethrough you have to pass . 
And know you who is the knight ? saith Perceval . 
Sir , saith the knight , Not I , for no leisure had I to ask him , for sorer need had I to flee than to stay . 
And so soon as he felt himself whole , he ventured himself against the four knights , that were so a dread of him that they durst not come a nigh . 
Sir , saith Perceval , Gramercy of these tidings . 
Messire Gawain made the knight go before , for well knew he the robbers' hold , but loath enough had he been to go thither , had the knights not followed him behind . 
Lancelot was issued forth of the hold sword in hand , all armed , angry as a lion . 
The four knights were upon their horses all armed , but no mind had they come a nigh him , for sore dreaded they the huge buffets he dealt , and his hardiment . 
One of them came forward before the others , and it seemed him shame that they might not vanquish one single knight . 
Lancelot leapt up on the destrier , and now seemed him he was safer than before . 
The three robber knights that yet remained whole ran upon him on all sides and began to press him of their swords in right sore wrath . 
Therewithal the two good knights smite horse with spur and come thither where the three robber knights were assailing Lancelot . 
Each of the twain smiteth his own so wrathfully that they thrust their spears right through their bodies and bear them to the ground dead . 
And the one whose leg Lancelot had lopped off was so trampled underfoot of the knights that he had no life in him . 
When Lancelot knew Perceval and Messire Gawain he made great joy of them and they of him . 
This , methinketh , will be well . 
Certes , saith Perceval , you speak of great courtesy . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , Messire Gawain hath said , and right willingly will I grant him all his wish . 
Lords , saith the knight , They have in this forest a hold wherein the knights did bestow their plunder , for the sake whereof they murdered the passers by . 
If the goods remain there they will be lost , for therein is so great store as might be of much worth to many folk that are poverty stricken for want thereof . 
But I slew her not knowingly , for I meant rather to strike the knight , but she leapt between us , like the hardiest dame that saw I ever . 
And Joseus said that he would do so , and is right glad that the robbers of the forest are made away withal , that had so often made assault upon him . 
He guarded the treasure and the hold right safely in the forest but the dread and the renown of the good knights that had freed the forest went far and wide . 
Perceval taketh leave of Messire Gawain and Lancelot , and saith that never will he rest again until he shall have found his sister and his widow mother . 
With that the Good Knight departeth , and they commend him to God , and he them in like sort . 
And he passed through a land that seemed him to have been laid waste , for it was all void of folk . 
Wild beast only seeth he there , that ran through the open country . 
He entered into a forest in this waste country , and found a hermitage in the combe of a mountain . 
He alighted without and heard that the hermit was singing the service of the dead , and had begun the mass with a requiem betwixt him and his clerk . 
He looketh and seeth a pall spread upon the ground before the altar as though it were over a corpse . 
He would not enter the chapel armed , wherefore he hearkened to the mass from without right reverently , and showed great devotion as he that loved God much and was a dread . 
When the mass was sung , and the hermit was disarmed of the armour of Our Lord , he cometh to Perceval and saluteth him and Perceval him again . 
Sir , saith Perceval , For whom have you done such service ? meseemed that the corpse lay therewithin for whom the service was ordained . 
You say truth , saith the hermit . 
I have done it for Lohot , King Arthur's son , that lieth buried under this pall . 
Who , then , hath slain him ? saith Perceval . 
That will I tell you plainly , saith the hermit . 
This wasted land about this forest wherethrough you have come is the beginning of the kingdom of Logres . 
As it pleased God , Lohot vanquished him but Lohot had a marvellous custom when he had slain a man , he slept upon him . 
A knight of King Arthur's court , that is called Kay the Seneschal , was come peradventure into this forest of Logres . 
He heard the Giant roar when Lohot dealt him the mortal blow . 
Thither came he as fist as he might , and found the King's son sleeping upon Logrin . 
He drew his sword and therewith cut off Lohot's head , and took the head and the body and set them in a coffin of stone . 
Then went he to the court of King Arthur and presented it to him . 
The King made great joy thereof and all they of the court , and the King made broad his lands right freely for that he believed Kay had spoken true . 
I found the corpse of the Giant so big that I durst not come a nigh it . 
The damsel led me to the coffin where the King's son was lying . 
She asked the head of me as her guerdon , and I granted it to her willingly . 
She set it forthwith in a coffer laden with precious stones that was all garnished within of balsams . 
After that , she helped me carry the body into this chapel and enshroud and bury it . 
Perceval lay the night in the hermitage , and departed on the morrow when he had heard mass . 
He rideth through the forest as he that right gladly would hear tidings of his mother , nor never before hath he been so desirous thereof as is he now . 
He heard , at right hour of noon , a damsel under a tree that made greater dole than ever heard he damsel make before . 
She held her mule by the reins and was alighted a foot and set herself on her knees toward the East . 
X. Perceval drew himself up when he heard the damsel bemoaning thus . 
He was in the shadow of the forest so that she saw him not . 
Either he is dead or he is in lands so far away that none may hear tidings of him . 
Of a man so evil my lady mother looketh for neither aid nor succour . 
And the good King Pelles hath renounced his kingdom for the love of his Saviour , and hath entered into a hermitage . 
He likewise is brother of my mother , and behoveth him make war upon none , for the most worshipful hermit is he of the world . 
And all they on my father's side have died in arms . 
Eleven were there of them , and my father was the twelfth . 
At this word Perceval rode forward , and the damsel heareth him . 
She riseth up , and looketh backward and seeth the knight come , the shield at his neck banded argent and azure , with a red cross . 
For , and your aid fail us , we know not to whom to fly for rescue , for I have been told that you are the Best Knight of the world . 
And for obtaining of your help went I to King Arthur's court . 
But King Arthur , that should have prayed you thereof , forgat it . 
so I may speed , so much will I do herein as that God and he shall be well pleased thereof . 
Perceval knoweth well that she is his sister , but he would not yet discover himself and manifest his pity outwardly . 
He helpeth the damsel to mount again and they rode on together . 
Sir , saith the damsel , Needs must I go to night by myself to the Grave yard Perilous . 
Wherefore go you thither ? saith Perceval . 
The cloth is of the most holiest , for our Lord God was covered therewith in the Holy Sepulchre , on the third day when He came back from death to life . 
Damsel , saith Perceval , So God allow me I will aid you to the utmost of my power . 
And our Lord God have your body in keeping , for mine own this night shall be in sore jeopardy and hazard . 
Perceval departeth from the damsel , his sister , and hath right great pity for that she goeth in so perilous place all alone . 
The damsel goeth her way all alone and all forlorn toward the grave yard and the deep of the forest , all dark and shadowy . 
She hath ridden until the sun was set and the night draweth nigh . 
She looketh before her and seeth a cross , high and wide and thick . 
And on this cross was the figure of Our Lord graven , whereof is she greatly comforted . 
Thereinto entered the damsel all alone , and found great multitude of tombs and coffins . 
Josephus the good clerk witnesseth us that within the grave yard might no evil spirit meddle , for that Saint Andrew the apostle had blessed it with his hand . 
The damsel beholdeth their sepulchres all round about the grave yard whereinto she was come . 
The most part held swords all red as of fire , and ran either upon other , and gashed one another's hands and feet and nose and face . 
And great was the clashing they made , but they could not come a nigh the grave yard . 
The damsel seeth them , and hath such affright thereof that she nigh fell to the ground in a swoon . 
The mule whereon she sate draweth wide his nostrils and goeth in much fear . 
The damsel signeth her of the cross and commendeth her to the Saviour and to His sweet Mother . 
She looketh before her to the head of the grave yard , and seeth the chapel , small and ancient . 
She smiteth her mule with her whip , and cometh thitherward and alighteth . 
She entered therewithin and found a great brightness of light . 
Ha , God ! saith the damsel , It is for my sin and my disloyalty that this most holy cloth thus draweth itself away from me ! XVII . 
When it shall please you , you will release me and my mother of the grief and tribulation wherein we are . 
For well you know that they have reaved her of her castles by wrong , and of her land , for that she is a Widow Lady without help . 
And so lend force to the knight and power against all our enemies , that for your love and for pity is fain to succour and aid my mother that is sore discounselled . 
Better loved he to take down your Body than all the gold and all the fee that Pilate might give him . 
Forthwith the cloth came down above the altar , and she straightway found taken away therefrom as much as it pleased Our Lord she should have . 
Josephus telleth us of a truth , that never did none enter into the chapel that might touch the cloth save only this one damsel . 
She set her face to it and her mouth or ever the cloth removed . 
The damsel was in sore misdoubting and dismay , for she knew not who the knight was , and great misgiving had she of her uncle's death and right sore sorrow . 
When he had looked well at the castle and the country round about , much pleasure had he thereof , and mounted again forthwith . 
Thereupon , behold you , the damsel cometh . 
Is it true saith Perceval , that he is dead ? Yea , certes , Sir , I know it of a truth . 
So help me God ! saith he , This misliketh me right sore . 
I thought not that he would die so soon , for I have not been to see him of a long time . 
Now behoveth us do the best we may and abandon this castle betimes , nor know I any refuge that we now may have save only King Pelles in the hermitage . 
I would fain that my lady mother were there , for he would not fail us . 
Perceval is silent , and hath great pity in his heart of this that the damsel saith . 
When they had ridden until that they drew nigh the castle , the Lady was at the windows of the hall and knew her daughter . 
Ha , God ! saith the Lady , I see there my daughter coming , and a knight with her . 
Fair Father God , grant of your pleasure that it be my son , for and it be not he , I have lost my castle and mine heirs are disherited . 
Perceval would fain have passed by the chapel , but the damsel saith to him Sir , no knight passeth hereby save he go first to see the coffin within the chapel . 
He alighteth and setteth the damsel to the ground , and layeth down his spear and shield and cometh toward the tomb , that was right fair and rich . 
He set his hand above it . 
So soon as he came nigh , the sepulchre openeth on one side , so that one saw him that was within the coffin . 
The damsel falleth at his feet for joy . 
Now know I well , saith she , that our Lord God hath not forgotten me . 
Sith that I have my son again , the tribulations and the wrongs that have been done me grieve me not any more . 
She maketh her chaplain take certain letters that were sealed with gold in the coffin . 
Fair son , saith she , Now is the term drawn nigh when I should have lost my castle and you had not come . 
But now know I well that it shall be safe guarded of you . 
He that coveteth this castle is one of the most outrageous knights on live . 
And he hath reaved me of my land and the Valleys of Camelot without reasonable occasion . 
But , please God , you shall well repair the harm he hath done you , for nought claim I any longer of the land since you are come . 
For one cannot do too much hurt to an enemy , save only one is willing to let him be for God's sake . 
But truth it is that the scripture saith , that one ought not to do evil to one's enemies , but pray God that He amend them . 
Wherefore send to the Lord of the Moors that hath reft it from me , that he render it to you . 
But our Lord God willed it so to be , wherefore well beseemeth us to yield to His will and pleasure . 
Perceval hath heard his mother , but right little hath he answered her , albeit greatly is he pleased with whatsoever she hath said . 
His face is to flushed of hardiment , and courage hath taken hold on him . 
His mother looketh at him right fainly , and hath him disarmed and apparelled in a right rich robe . 
So comely a knight was he that in all the world might not be found one of better seeming nor better shapen of body . 
The Lord of the Moors , that made full certain of having his mother's castle , knew of Perceval's coming . 
One of the five knights of the Widow Lady was one day gone into the Lonely Forest after hart and hind , and had taken thereof at his will . 
The Lord of the Moors waxed wroth . 
He held a sword in his hand and thrust him therewith through the body and slew him . 
The knight was borne dead to the castle of Camelot before the Widow Lady and her son . 
Fair son , saith the Widow Lady , More presents of such like kind the Lord of the Moors sendeth me than I would . 
Never may he be satisfied of harming my land and shedding the blood of the bodies of my knights . 
The Dame maketh shroud the knight , for whom she is full sorrowful , and on the morrow hath mass sung and burieth him . 
Perceval made arm two of the old knights with him , then issued forth of the castle and entered the great dark forest . 
He rode until he came before a castle , and met five knights that issued forth all armed . 
He asked whose men they were . 
They answer , the Lord's of the Moors , and that he goeth seek the son of the Widow Lady that is in the forest . 
If we may deliver him up to our lord , good guerdon shal we have thereof . 
By my faith , saith Perceval , You have not far to seek . 
I am here ! XXIX . 
Perceval smiteth his horse of his spurs and cometh to the first in such sort that he passeth his spear right through his body and beareth him to the ground dead . 
The other two knights each smote his man so that they wounded them in the body right sore . 
The other two would fain have fled , but Perceval preventeth them , and they gave themselves up prisoners for fear of death . 
He bringeth all four to the castle of Camelot and presenteth them to his lady mother . 
Fair son , saith she , I should have better loved peace after another sort , and so it might be . 
Lady , saith he , Thus is it now . 
One ought to make war against the warrior , and be at peace with the peaceable . 
The knights are put in prison . 
The tidings are come to the Lord of the Moors that the son of the Widow Lady hath slain one of his knights and carried off four to prison . 
The more part are keen to take Perceval . 
Kiss it and touch it with your face , for a holy hermit told me that never should our land be conquered back until such time as you should have hereof . 
Perceval kisseth it , then toucheth his eyes and face therewith . 
He sitteth on a tall horse all covered . 
Then you do I defy ! saith Perceval . 
The rest held the melly to the utmost they might endure . 
Perceval made take them and bring to the castle , and the other five that they had overthrown . 
The Lord of the Moors was come to shoot with a bow , and he heard the noise of the knights , and cometh thitherward a great gallop all armed . 
Of him will it be good to take vengeance . 
See , how boldly he cometh . 
He alighteth to the ground and draweth his sword . 
But Perceval defendeth himself as good knight should , and giveth such a buffet at the outset as smiteth off his arm together with his sword . 
The knights that came after fled back all discomfited when they saw their lord wounded . 
And Perceval made lift him on a horse and carry him to the castle and presenteth him to his mother . 
Lady , saith the Lord of the Moors , Your son hath wounded me and taken my knights and myself likewise . 
I will yield you up your castle albeit I hold it mine as of right , on condition you cry me quit . 
Such pity and none other as you have had for her and my sister will I have for you . 
He hath a great vat made ready in the midst of the court , and maketh the eleven knights be brought . 
After that , he made disarm the Lord of the Moors and be brought before the vat wherein was great abundance of blood . 
The tidings came to the castles that the son of the Widow Lady had slain the Lord of the Moors and the best of his knights . 
Thereof were they in sore misgiving , and the most part said that the like also would he do to them save they held themselves at his commandment . 
One day the Widow Lady sate at meat , and there was great plenty of knights in the hall . 
Perceval sate him beside his sister . 
Thereupon , behold you the Damsel of the Car that came with the other two damsels before the Widow Lady and her son , and saluted them right nobly . 
Fair son , none may be good knight that serveth Him not and loveth Him . 
And the Lord God grant you good intent therein and good will to go on even as you have begun . 
TITLE I. This High History saith that Messire Gawain and Lancelot were repaired to the court of King Arthur from the quest they had achieved . 
The King made great joy thereof and the Queen . 
King Arthur sate one day at meat by the side of the Queen , and they had been served of the first meats . 
Thereupon come two knights all armed , and each bore a dead knight before him , and the knights were still armed as they had been when their bodies were alive . 
Sir , say the knights , This shame and this mischief is yours . 
In like manner will you lose all your knights betimes and God love you not well enough to give counsel herein forthwith of his mercy . 
Lords , saith the King , How came these knights to be in so evil case ? Sir , say they , It is of good right you ought to know . 
Our Lord God , saith the King , Will defend us from so evil a man . 
He is risen from the table , all scared , and maketh carry the two dead knights to be buried , and the others turn back again when they have told their message . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , We will go against him , so please you , I and Messire Gawain between us . 
Here beginneth one of the master branches of the Graal in the name of the Father , and of the Son , and of the Holy Ghost . 
TITLE I. Perceval had been with his mother as long as it pleased him . 
He hath departed with her good will and the good will of his sister , and telleth them he will return into the land as speedily as he may . 
He looketh amidst the launde and seeth a red cross . 
Josephus telleth us by the divine scripture that out of the forest issued a beast , white as driven snow , and it was bigger than a fox and less than a hare . 
She durst not venture herself in the forest . 
She seeth Perceval and so cometh toward him for protection . 
The beast seeth that no protection hath she . 
She humbled herself much among them and crouched on the ground and made semblant as though she would have cried them mercy , and gat herself as nigh the cross as she might . 
When the hounds had all to mangled the beast , they fled away into the wood as had they been raging mad . 
Sir , saith he , My name is the Knight Coward , and I am man of the Damsel of the Car . 
Wherefore I pray you for God's sake and for your own valour that you touch me not . 
V. Are you so coward as you say ? saith Perceval . 
Yea , saith he , And much more . 
By my head , saith he , I will make you hardy . 
Come now along with me , for sore pity is it that cowardize should harbour in so comely a knight . 
I am fain that your name be changed speedily , for such name beseemeth no knight . 
They had scarce ridden away , when he heard in the forest off the way , two damsels that bewailed them right sore , and prayed our Lord God send them succour betimes . 
Sir Knight , saith Perceval , Let be these damsels , for well I know that they say true , for that I was there when the hold was given them . 
Ha , Sir , saith the Knight Coward , Never shall it be challenged of me ! Perceval draweth him back . 
Sir , saith he , See here my champion that I set in my place . 
He ooketh at the other knight that hath drawn his sword . 
The Knight Coward ooketh on the one side and the other , and would fain have fled and he durst . 
Howbeit the Coward Knight moveth not . 
Perceval looketh at him in wonderment and thinketh him that he hath set too craven a knight in his place , and now at last knoweth well that he spake truth . 
The , robber knight smiteth him all over his body and giveth him so many buffets that the knight seeth his own blood . 
He alighteth over him , unlaceth his ventail and smiteth down his coif , then striketh off his head and presenteth it to Perceval . 
Sir , saith he , Here give I you of my first joust . 
By my head , said Perceval , Right dearly love I this present ! Now take heed that you never again fall back into the cowardize wherein you have been . 
Perceval answereth that right and reason it is that worshipful men should be more honoured than the other . 
Sir , saith he , You say true , and you have I to thank for the name . 
Much he marvelleth wherefore it may be , and demandeth of some of the meaner sort wherefore they are in so sore affright . 
For a knight warreth upon him against whom no knight in the world may endure . 
Perceval rideth on until he cometh before the master hall , and is alighted on the mounting stage . 
They that had never seen him before looked upon him right fainly for the worship and valour of his knighthood . 
The court also was rejoiced because of him , for sore troubled had it been . 
So as the King sate one day at meat , there came four knights into the hall , and each one of them bore before him a dead knight . 
And their feet and arms had been stricken off , but their bodies were still all armed , and the habergeons thereon were all black as though they had been blasted of lightning . 
They laid the knights in the midst of the hall . 
Sir , say they to the King , Once more is made manifest this shame that is done you that is not yet amended . 
Right sore shame hath the King of these tidings , and Messire Gawain and Lancelot likewise . 
Right sorrowful are they of heart for that the King would not allow them to go thither . 
The four knights turn back again and leave the dead knights in the hall , but the King maketh them be buried with the others . 
Sir , saith she , I pray and beseech you that you do me right in your court . 
He and Messire Gawain were they that won the most prize of the assembly . 
This knight had white arms , and they of the assembly said that he had better done than Messire Gawain , for that he had been first in the assembly . 
It had been granted me , before the assembly began , that he that should do best thereat , should avenge the knight . 
Sir , I have sought for him until I have now found him at your court . 
Wherefore I pray and beseech you that you bid him do so much herein as that he be not blamed , for Messire Gawain well knoweth that I have spoken true . 
Messire Gawain , saith Perceval , Meseemeth you did best above all other . 
Of so much may I well call upon the damsel to bear witness . 
Sir , saith she , Gramercy ! He ought not to deny me that I require of him . 
For the knight that I have so long followed about and borne on a bier was son of his uncle Elinant of Escavalon . 
Damsel , saith Perceval , Take heed that you speak truth . 
I know well that Elinant of Escavalon was mine uncle on my father's side , but of his son know I nought . 
The Damsel of the Circlet of Gold loved him of passing great love with all her might . 
He taketh leave of the King and Queen , and so goeth his way and departeth from the Court . 
Messire Gawain departeth and Lancelot with him , and say they will bear him company to the piece of ground , and they may go thither . 
Perceval holdeth their fellowship right dear . 
Lancelot and Messire Gawain go with him by the strange forests and by the islands , and found the forests all void and desolate and wasted in place after place . 
The Damsel followeth them together with the dead knight . 
And so far have they wandered that they come into the plain country before the forest . 
Together with them were men of copper that turned and sounded their horns so passing loud that the ground all seemed to quake . 
And under the gateway were lions and bears chained , that roared with so passing great might and fury that all the ground and the valley resounded thereof . 
The knights draw rein and look at this marvel . 
Lords , saith the damsel , Now may you see the Castle of Great Endeavour . 
Messire Gawain and Lancelot , draw you back , and come not nigher the archers , for otherwise ye be but dead men . 
But your fellows may well draw back , for now is not the hour for them to pass . 
None may pass thither save only he that goeth to vanquish the knight and win the Golden Circlet and the Graal , and do away the false law with its horns of copper . 
Perceval is right sorrowful when he heareth the damsel say that Messire Gawain and Lancelot may not pass in thither with him albeit they be the best knights in the world . 
They wait awhile to watch the Good Knight , that hath yielded his shield and spear to the damsel . 
After that , he looketh at Lancelot and Messire Gawain . 
Lords , saith he , To the Saviour of the World commend I you . 
And they answer , May He that endured pain of His body on the Holy True Cross protect him in his body and his soul and his life . 
With that he smiteth with his spurs and goeth his way to the castle as fast as his horse may carry him , toward the Turning Castle . 
He smiteth with his sword at the gate so passing strongly that he cut a good three fingers into a shaft of marble . 
The lions and the beast that were chained to guard the gate slink away into their dens , and the castle stoppeth at once . 
The archers cease to shoot . 
There were three bridges before the castle that uplifted themselves so soon as he was beyond . 
Lancelot and Messire Gawain departed thence when they had beholden the marvel , but they were fain to go toward the castle when they saw it stop turning . 
Lancelot and Messire Gawain turn them back thoughtful and all heavy for that they may not pass into the castle , for none other passage might they see than this . 
So they ride on , until that they draw nigh the Waste City where Lancelot slew the knight . 
Ha , saith he to Messire Gawain , Now is the time at hand that behoveth me to die in this Waste City , and God grant not counsel herein . 
He told Messire Gawain all the truth of that which had befallen him therein . 
So , even as he would have taken leave of him , behold you , the Poor Knight of the Waste Castle ! XVI . 
Wherefore I pray yon forget me not , for the saving of your loyalty . 
By my head , saith Lancelot , That will I not , and gramercy for having put off the day for love of me . 
They depart from the knight and come back again toward Cardoil where King Arthur was . 
For , so soon as he should be come , they should run to be baptized , and should firmly believe the new law . 
For never may they that are within issue forth so long as the Knight of the Dragon is on live . 
Here may you not tarry , for the longer you tarry , the more lands will be desolate and the more folk will he slay . 
They have heard mass before that he departeth , and made rich offerings for him in honour of the Saviour and His sweet Mother . 
The damsel goeth before , for that she knew the place where the evil knight had his repair . 
They ride until they come into the Island of Elephants . 
The Knight was alighted under an olive tree , and had but now since slain four knights that were of the castle of the Queen of the Golden Circlet . 
She was at the windows of her castle and saw her Knights dead , whereof made she great dole . 
Right joyous is Perceval of this that he heareth her say . 
He crosseth and blesseth him , and commendeth him to God and His sweet Mother and is pricked of wrath and hardiment like a lion . 
He seeth the shield at his neck , that was right black and huge and hideous . 
He seeth the Dragon's head in the midst thereof , that casteth out fire and flame in great plenty , so foul and hideous and horrible that all the field stank thereof . 
The damsel draweth her toward the castle and leaveth the knight on the horsesaith . 
Sir , saith she to Perceval , On this level plot was slain your uncle's son whom here I leave , for I have brought him far enough . 
Now avenge him as best you may , I render and give him over to you , for so much have I done herein as that none have right to blame me . 
Perceval seeth him coming and goeth against him , spear in rest , as hard as his horse may carry him , thinking to smite him through the breast . 
But the Knight setteth his shield between , and the flame that issued from the Dragon burnt the shaft thereof even to his hand . 
Josephus witnesseth us that Joseph of Abarimacie had made be sealed in the boss of the shield some of the blood of Our Lord and a piece of His garment . 
The Knight is right wroth thereof , and passeth beyond and cometh to the bier of the dead knight and turneth his shield with the dragon's head against him . 
He scorcheth and burneth all to ashes the bodies of the knight and the horses . 
The damsel that had brought the knight was at the windows of the palace beside the Queen . 
Perceval , fair sir , saith the damsel , Now is the shame the greater and the harm the greater , and you amend them not . 
Perceval looketh and seeth that his sword is all in a flame of fire , whereof much he marvelleth . 
He smiteth the Knight so passing sore that he maketh his head stoop down over the fore saddle bow . 
The Knight righteth him again , sore wrath that he may not put him to the worse . 
He smiteth him with his sword a blow so heavy that he cleaveth the habergeon and his right shoulder so that he cutteth and burneth the flesh to the bone . 
As he draweth back his blow , Perceval catcheth him and striketh him with such passing strength that he smiteth off his hand , sword and all . 
The Knight gave a great roar , and the Queen was right joyous thereof . 
The dragon's head turneth it toward his lord in great wrath , and scorcheth him and burneth him to dust , and thereafter departed up into the sky like lightning . 
The Queen cometh to Perceval , and all the knights , and see that he is sore hurt in his right shoulder . 
And the damsel telleth him that never will he be healed thereof save he setteth thereon of the dust of the knight that is dead . 
And they lead him up to the castle with right great joy . 
Then they make him be disarmed , and have his wound washed and tended and some of the knight's dust that was dead set thereon that it might have healing . 
She maketh send to all the knights of her land Lords , saith she , See here the knight that hath saved my land for me and protected your lives . 
You know well how it hath been prophesied that the knight with head of gold should come , and through him should you be saved . 
And now , behold , hath he come hither . 
The prophecy may not be belied . 
I will that you do his commandment . 
And they said that so would they do right willingly . 
She bringeth him there where the Circlet of Gold is , and she herself setteth it on his head . 
She herself made her be held up and baptized first , and all the other after . 
Josephus maketh record that in right baptism she had for name Elysa , and a good life she led and right holy , and she died a virgin . 
Her body still lieth in the kingdom of Ireland , where she is highly honoured . 
Perceval was within the castle until that he was heal . 
The tidings spread throughout the lands that the Knight of the Golden Circlet had slain the Knight of the Dragon , and great everywhere was the joy thereof . 
When Perceval was whole , he departed from the castle of the Queen of the Golden Circlet , all of whose land was at his commandment . 
The history telleth us that he rode on until one day he came to the Castle of Copper . 
Within the castle were a number of folk that worshipped the bull of copper and believed not in any other God . 
And on the other side was the castle so fast enclosed about that nought might enter thereinto . 
Perceval beholdeth the fortress of the castle , and the entrance that was so perilous , whereof he marvelleth much . 
He passeth a bridge that was within the entry , and cometh nigh them that guard the gate . 
He comforteth himself much of that the Voice saith to him . 
He cometh anigh the serjeants of copper , and they cease to strike at once , and hold their iron mallets quite still . 
And he entereth into the castle , where he findeth within great plenty of folk that all were misbelievers and of feeble belief . 
He seeth the bull of copper in the midst of the castle right big and horrible , that was surrounded on all sides by folk that all did worship thereunto together round about . 
The bull bellowed so passing loud that right uneath was it to hear aught else within the castle besides . 
When he perceived that they held no discourse with him , he draweth himself on one side by a great hall , and so called them around him . 
The more part came thither , but some of them came not . 
The Good Knight draweth his sword and surroundeth them all and maketh them all go in common before him , would they or nould they . 
And they that would not go willingly and kindly might be sure that they should receive their death . 
He made them pass through the entrance there where the serjeants of copper were striking great blows with their iron mallets . 
Of one thousand five hundred that there were , scarce but thirteen were not all slain and brained of the iron mallets . 
But the thirteen had firmly bound their belief in Our Lord , wherefore the serjeants took no heed of them . 
Then the thirteen that remained sent for a hermit of the forest and so made themselves be held up and baptized . 
After that , they took the bodies of the misbelievers and made cast them into a water that is called the River of Hell . 
Josephus maketh record that the hermit that baptized the thirteen had the name of Denis , and that the castle was named the Castle of the Trial . 
They lived within there until the New Law was assured and believed in throughout all the kingdoms , and a right good life led they and a holy . 
Nor never might none enter with them thereinto but was slain and crushed save he firmly believed in God . 
At last they issued forth of her and slew her beside the cross that was at the outlet of the forest , but they might not eat of her flesh . 
And the hounds that were born of her fled away into the forest . 
They agreed among themselves and did thereafter as they had purposed and determined amongst them . 
God , that seeth and knoweth all things , knew well their thought . 
The knight and damsel that set the pieces of flesh in vessels of gold signify the divinity of the Father , which would not that His flesh should be minished . 
With this last was I right sore wrath , and willingly would I have run upon him had he not been a priest . 
And therefore did he bear it and revile it for that He was crucified thereon , even as I might hate a spear or sword wherewith you had been slain . 
For nought else did he thus , and ever , so often as he remembereth the pain that God suffered thereon , cometh he to the cross in such manner as you saw . 
Both twain are hermits and dwell in the forest , and he is named Jonas that kissed and adored the cross , and he that beat and reviled it is named Alexis . 
Willingly heareth Perceval this that his uncle telleth and recordeth him . 
Sir , saith Perceval , It may well be , but never at any time saw I knight so big and horrible . 
Power had he over his body , but , please God , not over his soul to burn it . 
So soon as I drew nigh and smote thereon with my sword the castle stopped still . 
Fair nephew , said King Hermit , Nought had the Devil outwardly besides this castle . 
It was the entrance to his fortress , nor would they within ever have been converted save you had been there . 
Sir , saith he , Right sorrowful am I of Messire Gawain and Lancelot , for well I loved their fellowship , and great aid would they have been in my need . 
Fair nephew , had they been chaste as are you , well might they have entered on account of their good knighthood . 
For were they not wanton , the two best knights in the world are they . 
If this folk had remained , and had failed of you , never would it have been destroyed until the end of the world . 
Wherefore marvel not that you have travail in serving God , but endure it willingly , for never had worshipful man honour without pains . 
But now behoveth you achieve another matter . 
All they of the land of King Fisherman your uncle have abandoned the New Law , and returned to that which God hath forbidden . 
Wherefore behoveth you set counsel therein , for this thing may not be achieved by any earthly man save by you only . 
But never sithence , none of the knights of King Fisherman nor of his priests have there appeared , nor knoweth any what hath befallen them . 
And so you shall have achieved this enterprise , it is a thing whereof shall God be well pleased . 
Of better right ought my mother to have it , that was the next born to King Fisherman , of whose death am I right sorrowful . 
I have within here a white mule that is very old . 
Fair nephew , you will take her with you . 
She will follow you right willingly , and a banner shall you bear , for the power of God and His virtue shall avail more than your own . 
Fair nephew , saith the Hermit , Two lions are there at the entry of the gateway , whereof the one is red and the other white . 
Perceval departeth from the hermitage , and carrieth away the banner , according to his uncle's counsel , and the white mule followeth after . 
He abideth so soon as he beholdeth the cross on Perceval's shield . 
Sir , saith he , I well perceive that you are a Christian , of whom not a single one have I seen this long time past . 
For the King of Castle Mortal is driving us forth of this forest , for he hath renounced God and His sweet Mother , so that we durst not remain in His defence . 
By my faith , saith Perceval , But you shall ! for God shall lead you forward , and I after . 
Are there more hermits in this forest ? saith Perceval . 
He is come forth of the forest and the hermits with him . 
He draweth nigh to the castle of King Fisherman , and strong was the defence at the entrance thereof . 
The knights saw Perceval coming and the company of hermits with him right seemly to behold , and much marvel had they thereof . 
About a couple of bowshots above the bridge was a chapel fashioned like the one at Camelot , wherein was a sepulchre , and none knew who lay therein . 
Perceval abideth thereby and his company . 
He leaneth his shield and spear against the chapel , and maketh fast his horse and mule by the reins . 
They found a letter which testified that this knight was named Josephus . 
Perceval was armed upon his horse . 
The hermits make the sign of the cross over him , and bless him and commend him to God . 
And he holdeth his spear in rest and cometh toward the three knights that guard the first bridge . 
They all set upon him at once and break their spears upon his shield . 
One of them he smiteth with such force that he maketh him topple over into the river that runneth under the bridge , both him and his horse . 
Of him was he quit , for the river was wide and deep and swift . 
The others held out against him a much longer bout with sharp sword play , but he vanquished them and smote them to pieces , and flung their bodies into the water . 
They of the second bridge came forward , that were right good knights , and many a tough bout had he of them and many a felon onslaught . 
By the time he had won the two bridges he was full spent and weary , wherefore he bethinketh him of the lion , the manner whereof his uncle had told him . 
Then looketh he toward the entrance of the gateway and seeth the white lion , that stood upright on his two hinder feet , for that he was fain to see him . 
Perceval understandeth the white lion's intent , and giveth God thanks thereof and draweth him back , and Joseus the young man likewise . 
As soon as they look back , they see that the first bridge is already lifted up behind them . 
Perceval cometh to where the white mule was , and she was starred on the forehead with a red cross . 
He mounteth thereupon , and taketh the banner and holdeth his sword drawn . 
So soon as the white lion seeth him coming , he unchaineth himself and runneth incontinent to the bridge that was lifted , right amidst the knights , and lowereth it forthwith . 
But the lion is hardier than you all , that of his hardiment hath lowered the bridge . 
Wherefore now know I well that had I set him to ward the first bridge , he would have warded it better than these that have allowed themselves to be slain . 
And they of the fourth bridge say likewise . 
On such condition he alloweth them to live by the counsel of Joseus , and they cast away their arms and yield up the bridges at his will . 
Perceval thinketh within himself that God's virtue hath right great power , but that knight who hath force and power ought well to approve his prowess for God's sake . 
For of all that he shall do or suffer for Him , shall God be well pleased . 
But He willeth that a man should travail for Him , even as He Himself suffered travail for His people . 
Joseus the hermit cometh thither and assaulteth them with passing great lustihood , that had the Lord God not saved him they would have overthrown and slain him . 
Howbeit , he holdeth the banner and grappleth them when he may lay hold , and grippeth them so straight that they may not help themselves . 
Perceval slayeth them and crusheth them and maketh them topple over into the water that ran swiftly beneath the bridge . 
Straightway thereafter he raiseth himself up on his two hinder feet and looketh at Perceval , and Perceval at him . 
Of all this the lion made signs to Perceval , for speak he could not . 
Great affiance hath Perceval in the lion's warning . 
He alighteth of his destrier and remounteth on the mule , and Joseus holdeth the banner . 
The company of twelve hermits was there , right seemly and holy . 
They draw nigh the castle . 
They bethought them that and if by mercy they might escape thence , they would never end until they had slain Perceval . 
The King of Castle Mortal was on the battlements of the wall , and seeth how his knights are dead , and how the lion helpeth to slay the last . 
On such wise was the end of this King of whom I tell you . 
Cain and Abel were brothers german , yet Cain slew his brother Abel , the one flesh betrayed the other . 
Josephus recordeth us by this evil king that was so traitorous and false and yet was of the lineage of the Good Soldier Joseph of Abarimacie . 
All these lineages were in the service of Our Lord from the beginning of their lives unto the end , save only this evil King that perished so evilly as you have heard . 
You have heard how the King that had seized the castle that had been King Fisherman's slew himself in such wise , and how his knights were discomfited . 
Perceval entered into the castle and the worshipful hermits together with him . 
It seemed them when they were come within into the master hall , that they heard chant in an inner chapel Gloria in excelsis Deo' , and right sweet praising of Our Lord . 
They found the hails right rich and seemly and fairly adorned within . 
They found the chapel open where the sacred hallows were wont to be . 
The good men were there within with Perceval , that much loved their company . 
Perceval made right great joy of them when he saw them , and they of him . 
They seemed well to be a folk that had come from some place where God and His commandments were honoured , and so indeed had they . 
The High History witnesseth us that when the conquest of the castle was over , the Saviour of the World was right joyous and well pleased thereof . 
For our Lord God loved the place much . 
The hermits went back to their hermitages in the forest and served Our Lord as they had been wont . 
He reft the lives of them that would not maintain it and believe . 
The country was supported by him and made safe , and the Law of Our Lord exalted by his strength and valour . 
And he showed them the sepulchre of his uncle King Fisherman in the chapel before the altar . 
The coffin was rich and the tabernacle costly and loaded of precious stones . 
And they say that every night was there a great brightness of light as of candles there , and they knew not whence it should come save of God . 
Perceval had won the castle by the command of God . 
The Graal was restored in the holy chapel , and the other hallows as you have heard . 
The evil believe was done away from the kingdom , and all were assured again in the New Law by the valour of the Good Knight . 
King Arthur was at Cardoil on one day of Whitsuntide that was right fair and clear , and many knights were in the hall . 
The King sate at meat and all the knights about him . 
The King looketh at the windows of the hall to right and left , and seeth that two sunbeams are shining within that fill the whole hall with light . 
Thereof he marvelleth much and sendeth without the hall to see what it might be . 
The messenger cometh back again and saith thereof that two suns appear to be shining , the one in the East and the other in the West . 
He marvelleth much thereat , and prayeth Our Lord that he may be permitted to know wherefore two suns should appear in such wise . 
Thereupon the Voice departed and well pleased was the King of that it had said . 
He sitteth at meat beside the Queen . 
The coffer is not large . 
The damsel holdeth it between her hands . 
When she was alighted she cometh before the King and saluteth him the fairest she may and the Queen likewise . 
The King returneth her salute . 
The King granteth the damsel her will in such wise as she had asked of him . 
He hath received the coffer , then maketh her be set at meat and right richly honoured . 
When the King had eaten , the damsel cometh before him . 
Sir , saith she , Make your knights be summoned and ready for that which you have granted me , and you yourself first of all . 
Damsel , saith the King , Right willingly . 
He setteth his hand to the coffer , thinking to open it , but it was not right that it should open for him . 
As he set his hand thereon the coffer sweated through just as had it been sprinkled all over and was wet with water . 
Messire Kay the Seneschal had served at meat . 
He heard say that the King and all the others had essayed and proved the coffer but might not open it . 
He is come thither , all uncalled for . 
Now , then , Kay , saith the King , I had forgotten you . 
Then would you believe what you are not willing to believe for the envious ones that think they are better worth than I , and yet have not served you so well . 
Kay , saith the King , Come forward , there is no need of this . 
The coffer opened as soon as he clapped hand thereon , and the head within could be seen all openly . 
A passing delicate savoured smell and right sweet issued therefrom , so that not a knight in the hall but smelt it . 
The King sitteth beside the Queen , and biddeth call one of his own chaplains . 
The chaplain looketh at them , and when he had scanned them down , began to sigh . 
Sir , saith he to the King and Queen , hearken unto me , and all the other , your knights . 
These letters say that the knight whose head lieth in this vessel was named Lohot and he was son of King Arthur and Queen Guenievre . 
He had slain on a day that is past , Logrin the Giant , by his hardiment . 
Messire Kay smote off Lohot's head , and so left the head and the body on the piece of ground . 
He took the head of the Giant and so bore it to the court of King Arthur . 
When the Queen heareth these letters and this witting of her son that came thus by his death , she falleth in a swoon on the coffer . 
After that she taketh the head between her two hands , and knew well that it was he by a scar that he had on his face when he was a child . 
For never did no I man see greater dole made in the King's court than they of the Table Round made for the youth . 
King Arthur and the Queen were so stricken of sorrow that none durst call upon them to make cheer . 
Lords , saith the King , right willingly will I go , and thereto am I right well disposed . 
The King departed from Cardoil and took leave of the Queen and all the knights . 
Lancelot and Messire Gawain go along with him and a squire that carrieth their arms . 
Kay the Seneschal was departed from the court for dread of the King and his knights . 
He durst not abide in the Greater Britain , and so betook himself into the Lesser . 
Briant of the Isles was of great power in those times , a knight of great strength and hardiment , for all Great Britain had had many disputes between him and King Arthur . 
His land was full strong of castles and forests and right fruitful , and many good knights had he in his land . 
When he knew that the King had departed he began to war upon the land and to slay his men and to challenge his castles . 
Messire Gawain marvelled him much that they had ridden the day long without finding neither hold nor hermitage . 
Night was come and the sky was dark and the forest full of gloom . 
They knew not whitherward to turn to pass the night . 
Lords , saith the King , Where may we be able to alight to night ? Sir , we know not , for this forest is fight wearisome . 
They make the squire climb up a tall tree and tell him to look as far as he may to try whether he may espy any hold or house where they may lodge . 
Take good heed , saith Lancelot , in which quarter it is , so that you may know well how to lead us thither . 
He saith that right eath may he lead them . 
With that he cometh down and mounteth again on his hackney , and they go forward a great pace and ride until they espy the fire and the hold . 
They pass on over a bridge of wattles , and find the courtyard all deserted and the house from within great and high and hideous . 
But there was a great fire within whereof the heat might be felt from afar . 
They alight of their horses , and the squire draweth them on one side amidst the hall , and the knights set them beside the fire all armed . 
The King asketh whether the squire had told truth . 
Lancelot answereth him yea , and that never yet had he found so many dead men together . 
Methinketh , saith Messire Gawain , Sith that they are dead we have nought to fear of them , but God protect us from the living . 
While they were talking thus , behold you a damsel that cometh into the dwelling on foot and all alone , and she cometh lamenting right grievously . 
Fair Lord God , saith she , Is he there within through whom I am to escape from this great dolour ? The knights hearken to her with great wonderment . 
They look and see her enter within the door , and her kirtle was all torn with thorns and briars in the forest . 
Her feet were all bleeding for that she was unshod . 
She had a face of exceeding great beauty . 
She carried the half of a dead man , and cast it into the chamber with the others . 
She knew Lancelot again so soon as she saw him . 
You did away the toll that was levied on the knights that passed by , and you lay in the castle that demanded it of them that passed through the demesne thereof . 
You returned not , for that you saw not the Graal . 
For the shame that I did to knights was this penance laid upon me in this forest and this manor , to last until such time as you should come . 
And you will do the same , and you believe me herein , for these are knights fiends . 
Lancelot draweth his sword and maketh a great circle round the house place , and they were within . 
V. Thereupon , behold you the knights that come through the forest with such a rushing as it seemed they would rend it all up by the roots . 
Afterward , they enter into the manor and snatch great blazing firebrands and fling them one at another . 
They enter into the house battling together , and are keen to fall upon the knights , but they may not . 
They hurl the firebrands at them from afar , but they are holding their shields and their swords naked . 
Lancelot maketh semblant as though he would leap towards them , and sore great cowardize it seemeth him nor to go against them . 
They marvel right sore what this may be , and say that such hostel is right grievous . 
Howbeit , she answereth that she is quit of their commandment and service , nor no longer is forced to do nought for them sith that she hath done her penance . 
But this rout was greater and of knights more hideous . 
They began to press the King and his knights hard , and they might not put them to the worse as they did the others . 
And while they were thus in the thickest of the conflict , they heard the stroke of a bell sounding , and forthwith the knight fiends departed and hurried away a great pace . 
They were the night until the morrow in the house , as I tell you . 
The damsel took leave of them and so departed . 
The King was right joyful thereof , and told them that it had been too perilous . 
He bade Messire Gawain and Lancelot that they should everywhere conceal his name , and that they should call him not Lord but Comrade . 
They rode on until evening drew nigh , and they found a right fair hold in the forest , whereinto they entered and alighted . 
The damsel of the hold came to meet them and made them right great cheer , then made them be disarmed , afterward bringeth them right rich robes to wear . 
She looketh at Lancelot and knoweth him again . 
But better love I to suffer misease in honour , than to have plenty and abundance in shame or reproach , for shame endureth , but sorrow is soon overpassed . 
Thereupon behold you the knight of the hold , whither he cometh from shooting in the forest and maketh carry in full great plenty venison of deer and wild boar . 
He alighted to greet the knights , and began to laugh when he saw Lancelot . 
Faith , Sir , saith Lancelot , You will do your pleasure therein , for she is yours . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , I have sithence spoken to her and she to me , and so hath she told me her will and her wish . 
Thereupon the knight bade the knights take water , and the lady taketh the basins and presenteth water to the knights . 
Avoid , damsel , saith the King , Take it away ! Never , please God , shall it befall that we should accept such service from you . 
He maketh the King take water of the lady , and the same service did she for all of them . 
The knight biddeth them be seated . 
The King would have made the lady sit beside him at the table , but the knight said that there she should not sit . 
She goeth to sit among the squires as she was wont to do . 
The knights are sorry enough thereof , but they durst not gainsay the will of her lord . 
They beheld a chapel that was right fair and rich , and below was a great ancient hall . 
They saw a priest appear in the midst of the castle , bald and old , that had come forth of the chapel . 
They are come thither and alighted , and asked the priest what the castle was , and he told them that it was the great Tintagel . 
And how is this ground all caved in about the castle ? Sir , saith the priest , I will tell you . 
Sir , saith he , King Uther Pendragon , that was father of King Arthur , held a great court and summoned all his barons . 
The King of this castle that then was here was named Gorlois . 
He went to the court and took his wife with him , that was named Ygerne , and she was the fairest dame in any kingdom . 
King Uther sought acquaintance of her for her great beauty , and regarded her and honoured her more than all the others of his court . 
King Gorlois departed thence and made the Queen come back to this castle for the dread that he had of King Uther Pendragon . 
King Uther was very wroth with him , and commanded him to send back the Queen his wife . 
King Godois said that he would not . 
Thereupon King Uther Pendragon defied him , and then laid siege about this castle where the Queen was . 
King Gorlois was gone to seek for succour . 
King Uther Pendragon had Merlin with him of whom you have heard tell , that was so crafty . 
And for this sin hath the ground sunken in on this wise . 
He cometh with them toward the chapel that was right fair , and had a right rich sepulchre therein . 
Lords , in this sepulchre was placed the body of Merlin , but never mought it be set inside the chapel , wherefore perforce it remained outside . 
Sir , saith King Arthur , And what became of King Gorlois ? Sir . 
King Arthur hath heard this as concerning his birth that he knew not , and is a little shamed thereof and confounded on account of Messire Gawain and Lancelot . 
He himself marvelleth much thereof , and much it misliketh him that the priest hath said so much . 
They lay the night in the hold , and so departed thence on the morrow when they had heard mass . 
King Arthur goeth on his way and Messire Gawain and Lancelot with him , and they pass through many strange countries , and so enter into a great forest . 
Lancelot called to remembrance the knight that he had slain in the Waste City whither behoved him to go , and knew well that the day whereon he should come was drawing nigh . 
He told King Arthur as much , and then said , that and he should go not , he would belie his covenant . 
They rode until they came to a cross where the ways forked . 
He hath ridden until that he cometh at the hour of noon into the Waste City , and findeth the city empty as it was the first time he was there . 
In the city wherein Lancelot had arrived were many waste houses and rich palaces fallen down . 
Lancelot much marvelled where they might be , for nought could he espy of them , albeit he cometh before the palace , there where he slew the knight . 
He alighteth , then maketh fast his horse's reins to a ring that was fixed in the mounting stage of marble . 
How ? saith Lancelot , Will you slay me then ? That shall you know , saith he , or ever you depart hence . 
But well I know that you have not come hither for this , but only to fulfil your pledge , and that you will raise no contention herein . 
The knight lifteth up the axe . 
Lancelot heareth the blow coming , boweth his head and the axe misseth him . 
The damsels come down from the palace and are come to Lancelot . 
Sir , say they to Lancelot , Greatly ought we to love you , yea , better than all knights in the world beside . 
For we are the two damsels , sisters , that you saw so poor at the Waste Castle where you lay in our brother's house . 
So the knight and the damsels lead Lancelot into the palace and then make him be disarmed . 
They hear presently how the greatest joy in the world is being made in many parts of the forest , that was nigh the city . 
Sir , say the damsels , Now may you hear the joy that is made of your coming . 
These are the burgesses and dwellers in the city that already know the tidings . 
Lancelot was much honoured throughout the city . 
The damsel that will bring the Golden Circlet will give it to the knight that shall do best at the assembly . 
Nabigant is keenly set upon having it , and maketh the more sure for that once aforetime he hath had it by force of arms . 
And I am going to the knights that know not these tidings , in order that when they shall hear them , they shall go to the assembly . 
The King and Messire Gawain have ridden so far that they come to the tent where Messire Gawain destroyed the evil custom by slaying the two knights . 
When they were thus dight , a man might have sought far or ever he should find so comely knights . 
Thereupon , behold you the two Damsels of the Tent coming . 
Damsels , saith Messire Gawain , Welcome may you be . 
Sir , say they , Good adventure may you have both twain . 
It seemeth us that you take right boldly that which is ours , yet never for neither of us would you do a thing whereof you were beseeched . 
Messire Gawain , you say true , but of right might one let the courtesy tarry and pay back churlishness by churlishness . 
The assembly of knights will begin to morrow in this launde that is so fair . 
There will be knights in plenty , and the prize will be the Circlet of Gold . 
Now shall we see who will do best . 
The younger damsel looketh at King Arthur . 
And you , saith she , What will you do ? Will you be as strange toward us as Messire Gawain is friendly with others ? IV . 
Damsel , saith the king , Messire Gawain will do his pleasure and I mine . 
Sir , saith she , Gramercy greatly . 
I pray you , therefore , that you be my knight at the tournament . 
Sir , saith she , what is your name ? V. Damsel , saith he , My name is Arthur , and I am of Tincardoil . 
In truth , he is the King in the world that I love best . 
The damsel looketh at King Arthur , but wotteth not a whir that it is he , and full well is she pleased with the seeming and countenance of him . 
For nought loveth he so well as her . 
The damsels would not depart until such time as they were asleep . 
The harness of the knights that came to the assembly came on the morrow from all parts . 
They set up their booths and stretched their tents all round about the launde of the forest . 
King Arthur and Messire Gawain were risen in the morning and saw the knights come from all parts . 
Damsel , Gramercy greatly ! saith Messire Gawain , I will do my endeavour in arms the best I may for love of you . 
The younger damsel cometh to King Arthur Sir , saith she , My sister hath made her gift and I will make mine . 
Damsel , saith the King , Gramercy ! No knight is there that should see you but ought to have you in remembrance in his heart for your courtesy and your worth . 
The knights were come about the tents . 
The King and Messire Gawain were armed and had made caparison their horses right richly . 
The damsel that should give the Golden Circlet was come . 
Nabigant of the Rock had brought great fellowships of knights together with him , and ordinance was made for the assembly . 
Damsel , saith King Arthur , God grant that I be so . 
So they laid hold on their reins and mounted their horses , that made great leaping and went away a great gallop . 
But he shall yet aby it dear . 
Messire Gawain taketh the two horses and sendeth them by a squire to the Damsels of the Tent , that made much joy thereof . 
And King Arthur was not idle , for no knight durst come against him but he overthrew him , so as that all withdrew them back and avoided his buffets . 
King Arthur and Messire Gawain come back to the tent of the damsels , that make disarm them and do upon them the rich robes and make great joy of them . 
Thereupon , behold you , a dwarf that cometh Damsels , make great joy ! for all they of the assembly say with one accord that your knights have done best this day . 
King Arthur and Messire Gawain sate to eat , and right well were they served of every kind of meats and of great cups of wine and sops in wine . 
When the day appeared they rose up . 
Thereupon , behold you the younger damsel where she cometh and saluteth King Arthur . 
Now , therefore , saith the damsel , would I fain prove whether you be indeed so loyal as men say , and whether you will hold your covenant that you made . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , Never yet brake I covenant with none , so it were such as I might fulfil or another on my behalf . 
So they come into the assembly . 
X. King Arthur smiteth with his spurs like a good knight and overthroweth two knights in his onset , and Messire Gawain rideth a bandon betwixt two fellowships to be the better known . 
The most part say , See ! There is Messire Gawain , the good knight that is King Arthur's nephew . 
Nabigant of the Rock cometh toward him as fast as his horse may carry him , lance in rest . 
Messire Gawain seeth him coming toward him right furiously . 
He casteth his shield down on the ground and betaketh him to flight as swiftly as he may . 
Other knights come to joust with him , but Messire Gawain fleeth and avoideth them the best he may , and maketh semblance that none is there he durst abide . 
He draweth toward King Arthur for safety . 
From this day forward may many lightly avenge themselves upon him of their kinsfolk and friends that he hath slain by the forest . 
The assembly brake up in the evening , whereof the King and Messire Gawain were right well pleased . 
The knights disarm them at their hostels and the King and Messire Gawain at the damsels' tent . 
With that , behold you the dwarf that cometh . 
'Tis the devil took him to a place where is such plenty of knights , for the more folk that are there the better may one judge of his ill conditions . 
And you , Sir , saith he to the King , Wherefore do you keep him company ? You would have done best to day had he not been there . 
He skulked as close by you , to be out of the buffets , as a hare doth to the wood for the hounds . 
No business hath good knight to hold company with a coward . 
I say not this for that I would make him out worse that he is , for I remember the two knights he slew before this tent . 
The damsel heareth the dwarf talking and smileth thereat , for she understandeth that blame enough hath Messire Gawain had at the assembly . 
Gawain , saith the King , Sore blame have you had this day , and I myself have been all shamed for your sake . 
Never thought I that so good a knight as you might ever have known how to counterfeit a bad knight as you did . 
You have done much for the love of the damsel , and right well had she avenged herself of you and you had done her great annoy . 
Howbeit , and to morrow your cowardize be such as it hath been to day , never will the day be when you shall not have blame thereof . 
saith Messire Gawain , Behoveth me do the damsel's pleasure sith that we have fallen by ill chance into her power . 
They went to bed at night and took their rest as soon as they had eaten , and on the morrow the damsel came to Messire Gawain . 
Damsel , saith Gawain , Gramercy , I will do your pleasure . 
Damsel , I will do my best to amend myself and my doings , and right well pleased am I of that it pleaseth you to say . 
Their horses were caparisoned and the knights mounted , all armed . 
They come together to the tournament with such an onset as that they pass through the thickest of the press and overthrew knights and horses as many as they encountered . 
And Messire Gawain searcheth the fellowships on all sides , and so well did he search that scarce was one might endure his blows . 
King Arthur is not idle , but pierceth shields and beateth in helms , the while all look on in wonderment at him and Messire Gawain . 
The knights departed from the assembly . 
The King and Messire Gawain came back to the tent and brought the Golden Circlet , whereof the damsels made great joy . 
Thereupon , behold you ! the dwarf that cometh back . 
This knight hath won the Golden Circlet by force of arms , and Messire Gawain nought but shame and reproach . 
The damsel laugheth at this that the dwarf saith , and biddeth him on his eyes and head , begone ! XV . 
The King and Messire Gawain were disarmed . 
The King and Messire Gawain lay the night in the tent . 
The younger damsel cometh to the King . 
Sir , many feats of arms have you done at the assembly , as I have been told , for love of me , and I am ready to reward you . 
Damsel , right great thanks . 
Our Lord God grant you to preserve yours . 
Damsel , saith she to the other that sitteth before Messire Gawain , This Knight and Messire Gawain have taken counsel together . 
There is neither solace nor comfort in them . 
Let us leave them to go to sleep , and ill rest may they have , and Lord God defend us ever hereafter from such guests . 
With that the damsels departed , as did likewise the King and Messire Gawain as soon as they saw the day . 
Nabigant , that was wounded at the tournament , was borne away on a litter . 
Meliot of Logres was in quest of Messire Gawain . 
Then they ask him wherefore he demandeth . 
In faith , Sir Knight , say they , We know not of what avail he may be to others that may not help himself . 
Messire Gawain was at the assembly , but we tell you for true , it was he that did worst thereat . 
Alas , saith Meliot of Logres , Then have I lost my land , and he hath become even such an one as you tell me . 
You would readily believe us , say they , had you seen him at the assembly ! Meliot turneth him back , right sorrowful . 
They rode until that they came one night to the Waste Manor whither the brachet led Messire Gawain when he found the dead knight that Lancelot had slain . 
They lodged there the night , and found there knights and damsels of whom they were known . 
Lancelot asketh him whence he cometh , and he saith from seeking Messire Gawain , of whom he had tidings whereof he was right sorrowful . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , I will seek him for you , and you can come along with me and it seemeth you good . 
Meliot of Logres betaketh him back with Lancelot . 
They ride until they happen by chance upon the Waste Manor where the King and Messire Gawain were lodged and they were armed , and were minded to go forth from thence . 
But the seven knights guarded the issue , all armed . 
Thereupon , they went toward them all armed and struck among them , and the knights received them on the points of their lances . 
Thereupon , behold you ! Lancelot and the knight with him , whom they had not been looking for . 
Lancelot espied the King and Messire Gawain then the knights cried out and struck among them as a hawk striketh amongst larks , and made them scatter on one side and the other . 
Lancelot hath caught one at his coming , and smiteth him with his spear through the body , and Meliot of Logres slayeth another . 
King Arthur knew Lancelot , and right glad was he to see him safe and sound , as was Messire Gawain likewise . 
Lancelot and Meliot of Logres made clear the passage for them . 
The knights departed , for longer durst they not abide . 
The damsel of the castle held a squire by the hand , that was right passing comely . 
She knew Lancelot , and when she saw him she called him . 
Lancelot , you slew this squire's brother , and , please God , either he or another shall take vengeance thereof . 
Lancelot holdeth his peace when he heareth the dame speak , and departeth from the Waste Hold . 
Meliot of Logres knew Messire Gawain and Messire Gawain him again , and great joy made they the one of the other . 
Right fainly will I go , saith Messire Gawain . 
He goeth his way thither accordingly by leave of the King and Lancelot , and saith that he will return to them the speediest he may . 
King Arthur and Lancelot go their way as fast as they may toward the land that was King Fisherman's . 
Messire Gawain rideth until he cometh to the land of Nabigant of the Rock . 
Meliot doeth Nabigant to wit that Messire Gawain was come , and that he was ready to uphold his right by him that was his champion . 
He issueth forth of his castle all armed , and is come there where Messire Gawain awaited him . 
He maketh them come to an assembly from the whole of the land they had reft away from him , and thereafter departeth and followeth after King Arthur . 
In the forest , he overtaketh a damsel that was going on her way a great pace . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , Lord God guide you , whither away so fast ? Sir , saith she , I am going to the greatest assembly of knights you saw ever . 
What assembly ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , saith she , At the Palace Meadow , but the knight I am seeking is he that won the Circlet of Gold at the Meadow of the Tent . 
Fair Sir , can you give me any tidings of him ? saith she . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , What would you do herein ? Certes , Sir , I would right fain find him . 
My Lady , that kept the Circlet of Gold for the son of the Widow Lady , that won it aforetime , hath sent me to seek him . 
For what intent , damsel ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Damsel , saith Messire Gawain , Be not any longer troubled hereof , for I tell you that the knight that won the Golden Circlet by prize of arms hath killed Nabigant already . 
Messire Gawain showeth her the Golden Circlet in the casket of ivory , that he kept very nigh himself . 
Right joyful was the damsel that the matter had thus fallen out , and goeth her way back again to tell her Lady of her joy . 
Messire Gawain goeth on his way toward the assembly , for well knoweth he that , and King Arthur and Lancelot have heard the tidings , there will they be . 
Messire Gawain asked him whence he came , and the squire said to him . 
From the land of King Arthur , where is great war toward , for that none knoweth not what hath become of him . 
Briant of the Isles and my Lord Kay with him are burning his land , and carrying off plunder before all the castles . 
Messire Gawain found King Arthur and Lancelot , and the knights were come from all the kingdom to the piece of ground . 
On account of these tidings had come thither great plenty of folk and of folk . 
King Arthur and Messire Gawain and Lancelot set them of one side . 
They struck into the assembly like lions unchained , and cast down three knights at their first onset . 
They searched the fellowships on every side , smote down knights and overthrew horses . 
King Arthur overtook no knight but he clave his shield to the boss all swerved aside and avoided his buffets . 
And Messire Gawain and Lancelot are not idle on the other hand , but each held well his place . 
But the more part had wonderment looking at the King , for he holdeth him at bay like a lion when the staghounds would attack him . 
And this crown was the crown of Queen Guenievre that is dead and buried , whereof is sore sorrow . 
King Arthur heareth tidings whereof he is full sorrowful . 
He draweth on one side , and the knights make the most grievous dole in the world . 
The tears ran down from his comely eyes right amidst his face and through the ventail , and , had he durst make other dole , yet greater would it have been . 
Of the mourning the King made is there nought to speak , for this sorrow resembleth none other . 
Certes , saith he , Now may I well say that the best Queen in the world and of most understanding is dead , nor never hereafter shall be none of equal worth . 
Certes , saith Messire Gawain to the King , Lancelot hath spoken well , so you grant him your consent . 
Lancelot taketh leave of the King and goeth his way back , all sorrowing and full of discontent . 
Of Lancelot the story is here silent , and so beginneth another branch of the Graal in the name of the Father , and of the Son , and of the Holy Ghost . 
TITLE I. You may well understand that King Arthur is no whit joyful . 
He maketh the white destrier go after him , and hath the crown of gold full near himself . 
They ride until they come to the castle that belonged to King Fisherman , and they found it as rich and fair as you have heard told many a time . 
Perceval , that was there within , made right great joy of their coming , as did all the priests and ancient knights . 
The King offereth the crown that had been Queen Guenievre's . 
When Perceval knew that she was dead , he was right sorrowful thereof in his heart , and wept and lamented her right sweetly . 
at the sepulchre and saith that never tofore hath he seen none so costly . 
A smell issueth therefrom full delicate and sweet of savour . 
Perceval had made set the bodies of the dead knights in a charnel beside an old chapel in the forest , and the body of his uncle that had slain himself so evilly . 
Behind the castle was a river , as the history testifieth , whereby all good things came to the castle , and this river was right fair and plenteous . 
All along the valley thereof was great plenty of everything continually , and nought was ever lacking in the rich castle that Perceval had won . 
The castle , so saith the history , had three names . 
One of the names was Eden , the second , Castle of Joy , and the third , Castle of Souls . 
Now Josephus saith that none never passed away therein but his soul went to Paradise . 
King Arthur was one day at the castle windows with Messire Gawain . 
Ha , God , saith King Arthur , What folk be these ? Sir , saith Perceval , I know them all save the last . 
They be hermits of this forest , that come to chant within yonder before the Holy Graal , three days in the week . 
When the hermits came nigh the castle , the King went to meet them , and the knights adore the crosses and bow their heads before the good men . 
The history witnesseth us that in the land of King Arthur at this time was there not a single chalice . 
King Arthur beheld all the changes , the last whereof was the change into a chalice . 
The history saith not that there were no chalices elsewhere , but that in all Great Britain and in the whole kingdom was none . 
King Arthur was right glad of this that he had seen , and had in remembrance the name and the fashion of the most holy chalice . 
I rose one night at matins and looked under my hermitage and saw that a ship had taken haven there . 
I went thither when the sea was retreated , and found within the ship three priests and their clerks , that told me their names and how they were called in baptism . 
By my faith , saith Messire Gawain to the hermit , I know you right well for a worshipful man , for you held your covenant truly with me . 
King Arthur was right glad of this thing , as were all they that were within . 
It seemed him that the noise thereof was like the noise that he had heard sound ever since he had moved from Cardoil . 
The hermits went their way each to his hermitage when they had done the service . 
Sir , saith she to Perceval , Have mercy on your mother and your sister and on us . 
Natheless in one matter hath he good custom , that never will he do shame to none until such time as he hath espoused her . 
Sir , I was with my Lady your sister when he maimed me in this manner . 
Perceval heard these tidings , and sore sorrowful was he thereof . 
By my head , saith the King to Perceval , I and my nephew , so please you , will go to help you . 
V. Lords , think not that it is this Camelot whereof these tellers of tales do tell their tales , there , where King Arthur so often held his court . 
This Camelot that was the Widow Lady's stood upon the uttermost headland of the wildest isle of Wales by the sea to the West . 
Nought was there save the hold and the forest and the waters that were round about it . 
TITLE I. Of Perceval the story is here silent , and saith that King Arthur and Messire Gawain have taken leave of Perceval and all them of the castle . 
The King leaveth him the good destrier that he won , with the golden crown . 
They have ridden , he and Messire Gawain together , until they are come to a waste ancient castle that stood in a forest . 
The castle would have been right fair and rich had any folk wonned therein , but none there were save one old priest and his clerk that lived within by their own toil . 
The images were right fair that were there painted , and the Figures of them for whom the images were made . 
The King and Messire Gawain looked at them gladly . 
Sir , saith the priest , It is a true history . 
Of whom is the history , fair Sir ? saith King Arthur . 
Of a worshipful vavasour that owned this hold , and of Messire Gawain , King Arthur's nephew , and his mother . 
His mother , that had him by King Lot , would not that it should be known . 
He carried him away to a far distant country , and so came one early morning to a little homestead where dwelt a right worshipful man . 
The Holy Father saw them and understood that he was the son of a King . 
He had pity upon him , and gave him to understand that he was of his kindred . 
After that , he was elected to be Emperor of Rome . 
But he would not be Emperor lest he should be reproached of his birth that had before been concealed from him . 
He departed thence , and lived afterwards within yonder . 
The King looketh at Messire Gawain , and seeth him stoop his head toward the ground for shame . 
Fair nephew , be not ashamed , for as well might you reproach me of the same . 
Of your birth hath there been great joy , and dearly ought one to love the place and honour it , where so good a knight as are you was born . 
When the priest understood that it was Messire Gawain , he made great cheer to him , and was all ashamed of that he had recorded as concerning his birth . 
This thing King Arthur well knoweth , and our Lord God be praised for that , you have come hither ! BRANCH XXIV . 
Here speaketh it word of the knight's son of the Waste Manor , there whither the brachet led Messire Gawain where he found the knight that Lancelot had slain . 
He had one son whose name was Meliant , and he had not forgotten his father's death rather , thereof did wrath rankle in his heart . 
Thitherward goeth he , and is come to where Briant was in a castle of his own . 
They marvelled much in the land and kingdom what had become of him . 
He rode one day amidst a forest , and overtook a knight and a damsel that made great joy together , singing and making disport . 
By God , saith the damsel , If this knight that cometh here will remain , he shall have right good lodging . 
It is already nigh eventide , and never will he find hostel so good to day . 
saith Lancelot , Of good hostel have I sore need , for I am more than enough weary . 
So be all they , saith she , that come from the land of the rich King Fisherman , for none may suffer the pain and travail and he be not good knight . 
Haply we shall find you at the castle or ever you depart thence . 
Lancelot goeth his way and leaveth them . 
By my head , saith the damsel to the knight , This that goeth there is Lancelot . 
He knoweth me not , albeit I know him well , and I hear that he is sore troubled of his sorrow and mis ease . 
Natheless , please God , I will have vengeance of him or ever he departeth from the castle whither he goeth to harbour . 
He made marry perforce a knight that loved me better than aught beside , and to a damsel that he loved not a whit . 
But the knight will not abandon her for his own honour , and for that I should be blamed thereof . 
The evening draweth on and Lancelot goeth toward the castle , that was right uneath to find and in an unfrequented part . 
He found without a knight that came from the forest , and asked him what castle it was , and he made answer that it was called the Castle of the Griffon . 
He that can draw a sword that is fixed in a column in the midst of the hall , and fetch it forth , he shall have her of right without forfeit . 
All these have made assay whose heads you see hanging at the door , but never might none of them remove the sword , and on this occasion were they beheaded . 
Sir , saith the knight , I speak only for your own good , and God grant you depart hence , honour safe . 
Lancelot findeth the door of the castle all open , and entereth in all armed , and alighteth before the master hall . 
The King was leaning at the windows , and biddeth stall his horse . 
The lord bade him be disarmed . 
Sir , saith he , Right well may you allow me wear my arms , for they be the fairest garniture and the richest I have . 
Sir , saith the lord of the castle , No knight eateth armed within yonder , but he that cometh armed in hither disarmeth himself by my leave . 
He may take his arms again without gainsay , so neither I nor other desire to do him a hurt . 
With that two squires disarm him . 
The lord of the Castle maketh bring a right rich robe wherein to apparel him . 
The tables were set and the meats served . 
The damsel issued forth of her chamber and was accompanied of two knights as far as the hall . 
Sir , saith she to the lord of the castle , You have harboured this night your deadly enemy that slew your brother at the Waste Manor . 
Sir , saith he to Lancelot , Make the demand that the others make ! What is it ? saith Lancelot . 
See there my daughter ! Ask her of me , and if you be such as you ought to be , I will give her to you . 
He asked his daughter of the knight of the castle , and came before him to save the custom so that he might not have blame thereof . 
And he showed him the sword that is in the column , all inlaid with gold . 
Go , saith he , and fulfil the custom , as other knights have done . 
What is it ? saith Lancelot . 
They might not draw forth the sword from this column , and so failed of my daughter and of their lives . 
Lord God , saith Lancelot , Defend me from this custom ! And he cometh toward the column as fast as he may , and seizeth the sword with both hands . 
So soon as he touched it , the sword draweth it forth with such a wrench that the column quaked thereof . 
Sir , saith the other damsel , I tell you plainly , this is Lancelot , the outrageous , that slew your brother . 
Right sorrowful is the damsel or this that she heareth her father say . 
She would fain that Lancelot and she were in the forest , right in the depth thereof . 
But Lancelot had no mind to be as she was thinking . 
The lord of the castle made guard the gateway of the castle well , in such sort that Lancelot might issue therefrom on no side . 
The daughter of the lord knew these tidings and was right sorrowful thereof , for she thinketh never more to have joy at heart and he shall be slain in such manner . 
Without the gate there will likewise be another dozen knights all armed . 
She sendeth you word , saith the messenger , that so you do not thus , no further trouble will she take concerning you . 
She doth it of dread lest she lose your love and here behold a brachet that she sendeth you by me that you will carry with you into the cavern . 
So soon as you shalt see the serpent griffons that have couched them therein , you shall show them this and cast her down before them . 
But no safeguard may you have as against the lion but of God only and your own hardiment . 
This was then repeated to the damsel , that marvelled her much thereat , and said that he was the hardiest knight in the world . 
Lancelot armed him toward daybreak , and had his sword girt , his shield at his neck , and his spear in his hand . 
So soon as they have espied her , they carry her in their claws and make her the greatest cheer in the world . 
Lancelot passeth beyond without gainsay , and espieth , toward the issue of the cavern , the lion that was come from the forest all famished . 
He cometh thither right hardily , sword drawn . 
When the lion feeleth himself thus maimed , he seizeth him by the teeth and the claws of his fore feet and rendeth away half the skirt of his habergeon . 
He casteth his shield to the ground and approacheth the lion closer . 
The damsel , that had come into the cavern , heareth that the lion is dead . 
Lancelot issued forth and so cometh into the orchard beside the forest , and wiped his sword on the freshness of the green grass . 
Thereupon behold you the damsel that cometh . 
Sir , saith she to Lancelot , Are you wounded in any place ? Damsel , nowhere , thank God ! Another damsel leadeth a horse into the orchard . 
The damsel of the castle looketh at Lancelot . 
Sir , saith the damsel , Meseemeth that you are not over joyous . 
Damsel , saith he , If I be not , I have good right , for I have lost the thing in the world that most I loved . 
Better should I love you mine own dead , than another's living . 
He mounteth on his horse and issueth forth of the orchard by a postern gate , and entereth into the forest , and commendeth him to God . 
The lord of the Castle of the Griffons marvelleth much that Lancelot delayeth so long . 
He thinketh that he durst not come down , and saith to his knights , Let us go up and cut off his head , sith that he durst not come down . 
He maketh search for him all through the hall and the chambers , but findeth him not . 
He hath gone , saith he , through the cavern , so have the griffons devoured him . 
So he sendeth the twain most hardy of his knights to see . 
But the brachet had returned after the damsel , whereof the griffons were wroth , and they forthwith seized on the two knights that entered into their cavern and slew them and devoured . 
News is brought him that the lion is dead at the issue of the cavern , and thereby well knoweth he that Lancelot is gone . 
He biddeth his knights follow after him , but none was there so hardy as that he durst follow . 
By the side of this chapel were three houses dight right richly , each standing by itself facing the chapel . 
Lancelot heareth vespers being chanted in the chapel , and seeth the path that turned thitherward , but the mountain is so rugged that he could not go along it on horseback . 
So he alighteth and leadeth his horse after him by the reins until he cometh nigh the chapel . 
There were three hermits therewithin that had sung their vespers , and came over against Lancelot . 
They bowed their heads to him and he saluted them , and then asked of them what place was this ? And they told him that the place there was Avalon . 
They make stable his horse . 
He left his arms without the chapel and entereth therein , and saith that never hath he seen none so fair nor so rich . 
There were within three other places , right fair and seemly dight of rich cloths of silk and rich corners and fringes of gold . 
The coffins were covered with two pails , and there were clerks that chanted psalms in turn on the one side and the other . 
Sir , saith Lancelot to one of the hermits , For whom were these coffins made ? For King Arthur and Queen Guenievre . 
King Arthur is not yet dead , saith Lancelot . 
Hereof have we the letters and her seal in this chapel , and this place made she be builded new on this wise or ever she died . 
When Lancelot heareth that it is the Queen that lieth in the coffin , he is so straitened in his heart and in his speech that never a word may he say . 
And the hermits make answer that knights for the most part do well believe in God . 
No wish had he once to depart thence before the day , and he would fain that the night should last far longer than it did . 
Lancelot was in the chapel until the morrow before the tomb . 
The hermits apparelled them to do the service that they chanted each day , mass for the soul of the Queen and her son . 
Lancelot heareth them with right good will . 
When the masses were sung , he taketh leave of the hermits and looketh at the coffin right tenderly . 
He hath ridden so far that he is come nigh Cardoil , and findeth the land wasted and desolate , and the towns burnt , whereof is he sore grieved . 
He meeteth a knight that came from that part , and he was wounded full sore . 
Lancelot asketh him whence he cometh , and he saith , Sir , from towards Cardoil . 
Kay the Seneschal , with two other knights , is leading away Messire Ywain li Aoutres toward the castle of the Hard Rock . 
I thought to help to rescue him , but they have wounded me in such sort as you see . 
Are they ever so far away ? saith Lancelot . 
The lances were strong so as that they brast not . 
They draw them back to themselves so stoutly and come together so fiercely that their horses stagger and they lose the stirrups . 
The knight that was wounded overthrew one of the two knights . 
Kay is on the ground , and Lancelot taketh his horse and setteth Messire Ywain li Aoutres thereupon , that was right sore wounded so as that he scarce might bear it . 
Kay the Seneschal maketh his knight remount , and holdeth his sword grasped in his fist as though he had been stark wood . 
Lancelot seeth the two knights sore badly wounded , and thinketh that and he stay longer they may remain on the field . 
He is come back to the Castle of the Hard Rock . 
Briant of the Isles asketh him who hath wounded him in such sort , and he telleth him that he was bringing thither Ywain li Aoutres when Lancelot rescued him . 
Kay the Seneschal maketh him be disarmed and his wound searched . 
They tell him he need not fear it shall be his death , but that he is right sore wounded . 
Lancelot is entered into the castle of Cardoil , and his wounded knights withal , and findeth the folk in sore dismay . 
But they give Lancelot joy of that he hath rescued Messire Ywain li Aoutres , and were so somewhat comforted and made great cheer . 
All the knights of the castle were right glad , and ask him tidings of King Arthur , and whether he were dead or no . 
Then you tell us of a truth that the King is on live , and Messire Gawain ? Both , you may be certain ! saith Lancelot . 
Thereupon were they gladder than before . 
They told him of their own mischance , how Briant of the Isles had put them to the worse , and how Kay the Seneschal was with him to do them hurt . 
For he it is that taketh most pains to do them evil . 
The knights are much comforted of the coming of Lancelot , but he is much grieved that he findeth so many of them wounded . 
Meliant of the Waste Manor is at the castle of the Hard Rock , and good fellow is it betwixt him and Kay the Seneschal . 
There come before the castle of Cardoil one day threescore knights armed , and they seize upon their booty betwixt the castle and the forest . 
Lancelot issueth forth all armed , and seven of the best of the castle with him . 
He cometh upon them after that they have led away their plunder . 
Lancelot was minded to alight to the ground to take him , but Briant of the Isles cometh and maketh him mount again perforce . 
The numbers grew on the one side and the other of knights that came from Cardoil and from the Hard Rock . 
Right great was the frushing of lances and the clashing of swords and the overthrow of horses and knights . 
They hurtle against each other so grimly at the by passing that their eyes sparkle as it were of stars in their heads , and the horses stagger under them . 
They hold their swords drawn , and so return the one toward the other like lions . 
Such buffets deal they upon their helms that they beat them in and make the fire leap out by the force of the smiting of iron by steel . 
He breaketh his spear at the by passing , and Meliant also breaketh his , but he was wounded passing sore . 
Thereupon he seizeth him by the bridle and thinketh to lead him away , but the knights and the force of Briant rescue him . 
The clashing of arms lasted great space betwixt Briant of the Isles and Lancelot , and each was mightily wrath for that each was wounded . 
Thus the stour lasted until evening , until that the night sundered them . 
Briant of the Isles and Meliant betook them back all sorrowful for their knights that are taken and dead . 
The wounded knights that were in the castle turned to healing of their wounds , whereof was Lancelot right glad . 
They were as many as five and thirty within the castle . 
Of all the King's knights were there no more save Lancelot and the wounded knight that he brought along with him . 
So they issued forth , spears in rest , and Ahuret and his knights , whereof was there great plenty , made much joy thereat . 
He setteth his spear in rest and smiteth one of King Arthur's knights through the body and beareth him down dead . 
But Ahuret was strong and of great might , and leapeth back between the bows and cometh toward King Arthur that he saw before him , but he knew him not . 
He left Messire Gawain , and the King smiteth him with such a sweep that he cutteth off his arm , spear and all . 
The King and Messire Gawain take leave of Meliot , and so depart , and Meliot garnisheth the castle that was right fair and rich and well seated . 
They lodge the night with the hermits , that made them right great cheer . 
But you may well say that the King is no whit joyful when he seeth the coffin where the Queen lieth and that wherein the head of his son lieth . 
Thereof is his dole renewed , and he saith that this holy place of this holy chapel ought he of right to love better than all other places on earth . 
They depart on the morrow when they have heard mass . 
He marvelleth much how he durst do it . 
He is come to Cardoil . 
When they of the castle know it they come to meet him with right great cheer . 
The tidings went throughout all the land , and they of the country were right joyous thereof , for the more part believed that he was dead . 
They of the castle of the Hard Rock knew it , but little rejoiced they thereat . 
To Cardoil was the King repaired and Messire Gawain . 
You may well understand that the land was much rejoiced thereof , and that all the knights were greatly comforted , and knights came back to the court from all parts . 
They that had been wounded were whole again . 
The King was one day at Cardoil at meat , and there was in the hall great throng of knights , and Messire Gawain sate beside the King . 
Messire Lucan the Butler served before the King of the golden cup . 
The King looked round about the table and remembered him of the Queen . 
He was bent upon thinking rather than on eating , and saw that his court was much wasted and worsened of her death . 
And what time the King was musing in such sort , behold you a knight come into the hall all armed before the King and he leaneth on the staff of his spear . 
But and if you do not this , have never affiance in him . 
And so sendeth he word to you by me ! III . 
Therewith the knight departeth , and the King remaineth all heavy in thought , and when they had eaten , he rose from the tables and all the knights . 
He speaketh to Messire Gawain and Lancelot , and taketh counsel with all the others . 
Sir , saith Messire Gawain , You will defend yourself the best you may , and we will help you to smite your enemies . 
Great Britain is all at your will . 
You have not as yet lost any castle . 
Nought hath been broken down nor burnt but open ground and cottages and houses , whereof is no great harm done to yourself , and the shame thereof may lightly be amended . 
King Madeglant is of great hardiment as of words , but in arms will he not vanquish you so soon . 
If that he warreth upon you toward the West , send thither one of the best knights of your court that may maintain the war and defend the land against him . 
The King sojourned at Cardoil of a long space . 
He believed in God and His sweet Mother right well . 
He commanded also that bells be cast throughout his land after the fashion of the one he had brought , and that each church should have one according to the means thereof . 
This much pleased the people of his kingdom , for thereby was the land somewhat amended . 
Some fourteen fell in the assembly that rose up again never more . 
Meliant of the Waste Manor searcheth for Lancelot in the midst of the stour until he findeth him , and runneth upon him right sturdily and pierceth his shield with his spear . 
Lancelot waxeth right wroth thereof , and he grieveth the more for that he feeleth him wounded . 
Meliant felt himself wounded to the death , and draweth him back all sorrowful , and other knights run upon Lancelot and deliver assault . 
King Arthur and Briant of the Isles were in the midst of the battle , and dealt each other right great buffets . 
Messire Ywain is come thither and Lucan the Butler , and break through the press by force . 
Briant to brast his thigh bone in the fall that he made . 
Sagramors holdeth sword drawn and would fain have thrust it into his body , when the King crieth to him that he slay him not . 
V. Briant's people were not able to succour their lord . 
Nay , rather , they drew back on all sides , for the stout had lasted of a long space . 
So they tended the dead and the wounded , of whom were enough on one side and the other . 
King Arthur made carry Briant of the Isles to Cardoil , and bring along the other knights that his own knights had taken . 
Right joyous were the folks at Cardoil when the King came back . 
They bore Meliant of the Waste Manor on his shield to the Hard Rock , but he scarce lived after . 
The King made Briant of the Isles be healed , and held him in prison of a long while , until Briant gave him surety of all his lands and became his man . 
The King made him Seneschal of all his lands , and Briant served him right well . 
Lancelot was whole of his wound , and all the knights of theirs . 
King Arthur was safely stablished , and redoubted and dreaded of all lands and of his own land like as he wont to be . 
Briant was feared and redoubted throughout all Great Britain . 
King Arthur had told them that they were all to be at his commandment . 
Tell her moreover , I send her word that never more shall there be Queen in my land save she be of like worth as was Queen Guenievre . 
Then I tell you plainly , saith she , that you will have betimes such tidings as that good for you they will not be . 
The damsel departeth from Cardoil , and cometh back to where the Queen was , and telleth her the message King Arthur sendeth her . 
True , saith she , I love him better than all in the world , and yet refuseth he my will and my commandment . 
He arrived in Albanie with great force of men with a great navy . 
When King Arthur understood these tidings , it was not well with him . 
He asked his knights whom he might send thither . 
The King maketh him come before him . 
And I will give you in command forty knights . 
But I would not that you should hold this of cowardize in me , and right willingly will I do your pleasure , for none ought I to serve more willingly than you . 
The King giveth him much thanks of this that he saith . 
Lancelot departeth from the court , and taketh forty knights with him , and so cometh into the land of Albanie where King Madeglant hath arrived . 
When they of the land knew that Lancelot was come , great joy had they thereof in their hearts , for ofttimes had they heard tell of him and of his good knighthood . 
They were all at his commandment , and received him as their champion and protector . 
King Madeglant one day issued forth of his ships to do battle against Lancelot and them of the land . 
King Madeglant , with as many of his men as he might , betaketh himself to his own ship privily , and maketh put to sea the soonest he may . 
They that might not come to the ships remained on dry land , and were so cut up and slain . 
Madeglant went his way discomfited . 
Of ten ships full of men that he had brought he took back with him but two . 
The land was in peace and assured in safety . 
Lancelot remained there of a long space . 
They of the land loved Lancelot well , as I tell you . 
King Arthur was at Cardoil , and so were his knights together with him . 
Sir , saith he , Where is Lancelot ? Sir , saith the King to the knight , He is not in this country . 
By my head , saith the knight , that misliketh me . 
Meliant was the son of his sister german , wherefore much grieveth he of his death . 
But , sith that he will not love his own death , neither I nor other ought greatly to love him and he refuse to redress his wrong . 
Sir , saith the knight , You have heard well that I have told you . 
V. With that the knight departeth , and the King remaineth at Cardoil . 
He sendeth for Briant of the Isles , his seneschal , and a great part of his knights , and demandeth counsel of them what he may do . 
Nor never had Meliant appealed Lancelot of murder nor of treason , nor required him of the death of his father . 
Rather , Lancelot slew him in open war , as one that warred upon his lord by wrong . 
Briant , saith Messire Gawain , Lancelot is nor here and , moreover , he is now on the King's business . 
Well know you that Meliant came to you and that you made him knight , and that thereafter he warred upon the King's land without reasonable occasion . 
The King was far away from the land as he that made pilgrimage to the Graal . 
He was told tidings that his land was being put to the worse , and he sent Lancelot to protect it . 
He accordingly maintained the war as best he might until such time as the King was returned . 
Meliant knew well that the King was come back , and that never had he done wrong to none in his court that wished to demand right therein . 
In the meanwhile he warred upon the King , that had never done him a wrong nor refused to do him a right . 
Lancelot slew him in the King's war and upon his land in defence thereof . 
King Madeglant warreth upon him and King Claudas maketh war upon him also . 
They will deliver attacks enough . 
Sagramors li Desirous leapeth forward . 
Thereupon , behold you ! Orguelleux of the Launde come , that had not been at the court of a long time , and it had been told him whereof these words were . 
For so many good knights hath King Arthur yet , that none knoweth such knights nor such King in the world beside . 
Therewithal the talk came to an end . 
When the King learnt the tidings that Madeglant was discomfited and that the land of Albanie was in peace , he sent word to Lancelot to return back . 
They of the land were very sorrowful when he departed , for great affiance had they in his chivalry . 
So he came back thither where King Arthur was . 
All they of the land made a great joy , for well loved was he of many , nor were there none that hated him save of envy alone . 
They told him the tidings of King Claudas , and also in what manner Briant had spoken . 
Lancelot took no notice outwardly , as he that well knew how to redress all his grievances . 
He was at the court of a long while , for that King Claudas was about to send over thither some one of his knights . 
Madeglant of Oriande heard say that Lancelot was repaired back , and that the land of Albanie was all void save for the folk of the country . 
He maketh ready his navy at once and cometh back to the land in great force . 
He burneth the land and layeth it waste on every side , and doth far worse therein than he did aforetime . 
The King sent thither Briant of the Isles , and lent him forty knights . 
Briant , that loved not the King in his heart , came into the land , but only made pretence of helping him to defend it . 
One day fell out a battle betwixt Madeglant and Briant and all their men . 
Briant was discomfited , and had many of his knights killed . 
King Arthur was at Cardoil on one day of Whitsuntide . 
Many were the knights that were come to this court whereof I tell you . 
The King was seated at meat , and the day was fair and clear , and the air clean and fresh . 
Sagramors li Desirous and Lucan the Butler served before the King . 
They all looked thereat in great wonderment . 
The quarrel was like as it were of gold , and it had about it a many costly precious stones . 
The King saith that quarrel so costly cometh not from a poor place . 
Lancelot and Messire Gawain say that never have they seen one so rich . 
It struck so deep in the column that the iron point thereof might not be seen , and a good part of the shaft was also hidden . 
Thereupon , behold you , a damsel of surpassing great beauty that cometh , sitting on a right costly mule , full well caparisoned . 
She had a gilded bridle and gilded saddle , and was clad in a right rich cloth of silk . 
A squire followed after her that drove her mule from behind . 
She came before King Arthur as straight as she might , and saluted him right worshipfully , and he made answer the best he might . 
Sir , saith she , I am come to speak and demand a boon , nor will I never alight until such time as you shall have granted it to me . 
Damsel , saith the King , Tell me the need . 
Sir , saith she , I will tell it you plainly when I shall see the knight that shall have drawn it forth . 
Damsel , saith the King , Alight ! Never , please God , shall you go forth of my court denied of that you ask . 
Lucan the Butler taketh her between his arms and setteth her to the ground , and her mule is led away to be stabled . 
When the damsel had washen , she was set in a seat beside Messire Ywain , that showed her much honour and served her with a good will . 
He looked at her from time to time , for she was fair and gentle and of good countenance . 
When they had eaten at the tables , the damsel prayeth the King that he will hasten them to do her business . 
Fair nephew , saith the King , Now set your hand to this quarrel and give it back to the damsel . 
Behold , here have you Lancelot with you , and so many other good knights , that little worship should I have herein were I to set myself forward before them . 
Messire Ywain , saith the King , Set your hand hereto ! It may be that you think too humbly of yourself herein . 
Sir , saith Messire Ywain , Nought is there in the world that I would not do for you , but as for this matter I pray you hold me excused . 
Sagramors , and you , Orguelleux of the Launde , what will you do ? saith the King . 
Sir , say they , When Lancelot hath made assay , we will do your pleasure , but before him , so please you , we will not go . 
Damsel , saith the King , Pray Lancelot that he be fain to set his hand , and then the rest shall go after him if needs be . 
For no leisure have I to tarry here long time . 
Wherefore I require you , of the faith you owe me , that you set your hand thereto , sith that the damsel prayeth you so to do , before the others . 
Then standeth he straight upright , doth off his robe , and cometh straight to the quarrel that is fixed in the column . 
He setteth his hand thereunto and draweth it forth with a right passing strong wrench , so sturdily that he maketh the column tremble . 
Then he giveth it to the damsel . 
Needs must he go to the Chapel Perilous the swiftest he may , and there will he find a knight that lieth shrouded in the midst of the chapel . 
saith Lancelot , I see that you reckon but little of my life , so only that your wish be accomplished . 
And you will see the fairest damsel that is in any kingdom , and the one that most desireth to see you . 
And , so you tarry not , through her shall you lightly get done that you have to do . 
Greatly ought I to hate you , for you reft me of my friend and gave him to another , and while I live may I never forget it . 
The damsel goeth her way , and Lancelot departeth from the court and taketh leave of the King and of all the others . 
He issueth forth of Cardoil , all armed , and entereth into the forest that is deep , and so goeth forth a great pace , and prayeth God guide him into safety . 
TITLE I. Therewithal the story is silent of Lancelot , and saith that Briant of the Isles is repaired to Cardoil . 
Of the forty knights that he took with him , but fifteen doth he bring back again . 
Thereof is King Arthur right sorrowful , and saith that he hath the fewer friends . 
Briant , saith the King , This would be great blame to myself . 
No worshipful man ought to be idle in guarding and holding that which is his own . 
It may well be that they say so , saith the King , But never would Lancelot do aught that should be against my will . 
He had not ridden far when he met a knight that was right sore wounded . 
He asked him whence he came and who had wounded him in such manner . 
A knight lieth in the chapel that hath been slain of late , that was a fell and cruel knight and a hardy . 
What was his name ? saith Lancelot . 
Sir Knight , saith Lancelot , One of them have you found . 
My name is Lancelot , and for that I see you are wounded and in evil plight , I tell it you thus freely . 
Sir , saith the knight , Now may God protect your body , for you go in great peril of death . 
But the damsel much desireth to see you , I know not for what , and well may she aid you if she will . 
Sir Knight , God hath brought us forth of many a peril , and so will He also from this and it be His pleasure and His will . 
The chapel and the graveyard are overshadowed of the forest , that is right tall . 
Lancelot entereth therein all armed . 
He signeth him of the cross and blesseth him and commendeth him to God . 
He seeth in the grave yard coffins in many places , and it seemeth him that he seeth folk round about that talk together , the one with another . 
But he might not hear that they said . 
He might not see them openly , but very tall they seemed him to be . 
He is come toward the chapel and alighteth of his horse , and seeth a shed outside the chapel , wherein was provender for horses . 
He seeth the coffin that was in the midst of the chapel wherein the knight lay . 
The cloth wherein he was enshrouded was displayed all bloody . 
He cutteth off the half of the cloth wherein he is enshrouded , and the coffin beginneth to make a crashing so passing loud that it seemed the chapel were falling . 
and horrible , and they are appareled as it were to combat , and him thinketh that they are watching for him and espy him . 
Thereupon , behold you , a damsel running , her kirtle girt high about her , right through the grave yard a great pace . 
Take heed you move not until such time as it is known who the knight is ! She is come to the chapel . 
Damsel , saith he , I am called Lancelot of the Lake . 
V. Damsel , saith he , No wish have I to see my sepulchre so early betimes . 
Never , damsel , please God , saith Lancelot , may your devils have power to harm a Christian . 
Of this was Lancelot not sorry . 
He taketh leave of the damsel , that departeth grudgingly , garnisheth him again of his arms , then mounteth again on his horse and goeth his way right through the grave yard . 
He beholdeth this evil folk , that were so foul and huge and hideous , it seemed as if they would devour everything . 
They made way for Lancelot , and had no power to hurt him . 
He is issued forth of the grave yard and goeth his way through the forest until daylight appeared about him , fair and clear . 
Lancelot knew not which way to turn , for he had not often been in the forest , and knew not how the land lay nor the paths therein . 
And the orchard was well enclosed with walls . 
Lancelot entered in and made fast the entrance , then took off his horse's bridle and let him feed on the grass . 
He might not espy the castle that was hard by for the abundance of trees and the darkness of the night , and so knew not whither he was arrived . 
He laid his shield for a pillow and his arms at his side and fell on sleep . 
She set her mouth close to him and so kissed him the best and fairest she might , three times , and Lancelot awakened forthwith . 
Sir , saith she , This castle is at your commandment , and you will remain therein , and well may you know my thought towards you . 
Would that your thought were the same towards me . 
Damsel , saith he , I seek the healing of a knight that may not be healed save I bring him the head of one of your serpents . 
Certes , Sir , so hath it been said . 
But I bade the damsel say so only for that I was fain you should come back hither to me . 
Damsel , saith he , I have come back hither , and so may I turn back again sith that of the serpent's head is there no need . 
But the devil hath put so much knighthood into you that scarce any man may have protection against you . 
Better ought I to love you dead than alive . 
Damsel , saith Lancelot , You may say your will . 
Lancelot , I took but that I might have , for well I see that none more thereof may I have never again . 
He issueth forth of the orchard , and the damsel looketh after him as long as she may see him . 
X. Lancelot rideth right amidst the forest until it is day , and cometh at the right hour of noon to the Castle Perilous , where Meliot of Logres lay . 
He entered into the castle . 
The damsel that was at King Arthur's court cometh to meet him . 
Lancelot , saith she , Welcome may you be ! Damsel , saith he , Good adventure may you have ! He was alighted at the mountingstage of the hall . 
She maketh him mount up the steps and afterward be disarmed . 
Now hath she seen you , and so will she be more at ease , and will have no cause to ask me thereof . 
The damsel leadeth Lancelot to where Meliot of Logres lay . 
Lancelot sitteth him down before him and asketh how it is with him ? Meliot , saith the damsel , This is Lancelot , that bringeth you your healing . 
Ha , Sir , welcome may you be ! God grant you health speedily , said Lancelot . 
Sir , saith he , The knight that assieged them maimed me in this fashion , but was himself maimed in such sort that he is dead thereof . 
They uncover his wounds , and Lancelot unbindeth them , and the damsel toucheth him of the sword and the winding sheet , and they are assuaged for him . 
And he saith that now at last he knoweth well he need not fear to die thereof . 
He loved me of right great love , and I him again , and never shall that love fail . 
But now is it far further away from me than it was before , and for this bounty that you have done , never hereafter need you fear aught of my grievance . 
Damsel , saith Lancelot , Gramercy heartily . 
The more part of the lands that he conquered had renounced the New Law for fear of death and held the false believe . 
And Messire Gawain and many other knights were departed from King Arthur's court for that the King trusted more in Briant of the Isles than he did in them . 
In the midst of the dismay wherein was King Arthur , Lancelot returned to the court , whereof was the King right joyous . 
Sir , saith Lancelot , My aid and my force shall fail you never take heed that yours fail not me . 
Of right ought I not to fail you , saith the King , Nor will I never , for I should fail myself thereby . 
The history saith that he gave Lancelot forty knights in charge , and that he is come into an island where King Madeglant was . 
Or ever he knew of his coming , Lancelot had cut off his retreat , for he cut his cables and beat his anchors to pieces and broke up his ships . 
After that , he struck among the people of Madeglant , and slew as many of them as he would , he and his knights . 
The King thought to withdraw him back , both him and his fellowship , into safety as he wont , but he found himself right ill bested . 
He roved so long from one island to another that presently he came to Albanie where he had succoured them at first . 
When they of the land saw him come , they well knew that the King of Oriande was dead and the islands made free , whereof made they great joy . 
The land was some deal emptied of the most puissant and the strongest , for they were dead along with their lord . 
Lancelot had brought with him some of the best knights and most puissant . 
He was come with a great navy into the land and began to destroy it . 
They of the land were misbelievers , for they believed in false idols and in false images . 
They saw that they might not defend the land , sith that their lord was dead . 
The more part let themselves be slain for that they would not renounce the evil Law , and they that were minded to turn to God were saved . 
The kingdom was right rich and right great that Lancelot conquered and attorned to the Law of Our Lord in such wise . 
He made break all the false images of copper and fatten wherein they had believed tofore , and whereof false answers came to them of the voices of devils . 
The strongest and most valiant of the land assembled one day and said that it was high time a land so rich should no longer be without a King . 
King Claudas had heard tell how Lancelot had slain the King of Oriande and that none of the islands might scarce be defended against him . 
By my head , saith the King , I believe not that Lancelot durst think this , nor that he would have the heart to do me evil . 
The King sent his letters by his messenger to Lancelot . 
The messenger sought him until he found him in the kingdom of Oriande , and delivered him the letters and the seal of the King . 
So soon as he knew that which the letters say , he took leave of them of the land , that were right sorrowful . 
The King bade Briant of the Isles that he should make forty knights come armed under their cloaks ready to take Lancelot prisoner as soon as he should command them . 
The tidings come to Lancelot , there where he was in his hostel , that the King had made knights come all armed to the palace . 
Lancelot bethought him that some need had arisen and that he would arm himself likewise , so he made him be armed and came to the hall where the King was . 
You ought well to ask him wherefore he wisheth to do you evil , and in what manner you have deserved it . 
He biddeth him be called before him . 
The King commandeth him be taken forthwith without gainsay of any . 
Lancelot seeth them coming towards him with their keen swords and saith , By my head , an evil guerdon do you return me of the services I have done for you . 
The knights come to him all together swords drawn , and run upon him all at once . 
Nor ought none believe that one single knight might deliver himself from so many men , seeing that they were eager to take him and do him a hurt . 
The knights laid hold on Lancelot on all sides , and the King commanded that none should harm him , but that they should bring him to his dungeon in the prison . 
Lancelot marvelled him much wherefore the King should do this , nor might he understand wherefore this hatred was come so lately . 
He is put in the prison so as the King hath commanded . 
All they of the court are sorry thereof , save Briant and his knights , but well may he yet aby it dear , so God bring Lancelot out or prison . 
They pray God yet grant Briant of the Isles an evil guerdon , for well know they that all this is of his procurement . 
And of an evil guerdon shall he not fail so God protect Lancelot and bring him forth of prison . 
He was about to take her to wife and cut off her head on the day of the New Year , for such was his custom with all them that he took . 
Perceval rideth one day , all heavy in thought , and taketh his way as fast as he may toward the hermitage of his uncle King Hermit . 
He is come thither on an eventide , and seeth three hermits issued forth of the hermitage . 
He alighteth and goeth to meet them so soon as he seeth them . 
Sir , say the hermits , Enter not in , for they are laying out a body there . 
Who is it ? saith Perceval . 
When Perceval heard the news or his uncle that is dead , thereof was he right grieved at heart , and on the morrow was he at his uncle's burial . 
When mass was sung , Perceval would have departed , as he that had great desire to take vengeance on him that had done him such shame . 
Thereupon behold you the damsel that is his . 
Sir , saith she , Full long time have I been seeking you . 
Who , then , was the knight , damsel ? saith Perceval . 
Sir , he was son of your uncle Bruns Brandalis , and were he on live , would have been one of the best knights in the world . 
And who slew him , damsel ? saith Perceval . 
Sir , the Knight of the Deep Forest that leadeth the lion , foully in treason there where he thought him safe . 
For had he been armed in like manner as was the other , he would not have slain him . 
Here beginneth the last branch of the Graal in the name of the Father , and of the Son , and of the Holy Ghost . 
TITLE I. The story saith that Perceval went his way through the forest . 
He saw pass before him two squires , and each carried a wild deer trussed behind him that had been taken by hounds . 
Perceval cometh to them a great pace and maketh them abide . 
Lords , saith he , Whither will you carry this venison ? Sir , say the squires , To the castle of Ariste , whereof Aristor is lord . 
Is there great throng of knights at the castle ? saith Perceval . 
But we are right sorrowful , for she is of most noble lineage and of great beauty and of the most worth in the world . 
So is it great dole that he shall have her , for he will cut her head off on the day of the New Year , sith that such is his custom . 
And he saith that he would slay him more gladly than ever another knight on live . 
When Perceval heard these tidings , he departed from the squires , and so soon as they were out of sight he goeth as great pace thither as they had come thence . 
After that saith he I am come to my sister's wedding , of right ought it not to be made without me . 
The Knight Hardy draweth back when he seeth Perceval , for he is wounded to the death through the body . 
He had held the stout so long time that he could abide no more . 
But or ever he departed , he had wounded Aristor in two places right grievously . 
Perceval felt the blow that was heavy , and that his helmet was dinted in . 
He cometh back to Aristor and smiteth him so passing strongly that he thrusteth the spear right through his body and overthroweth him and his horse all of a heap . 
Then he alighteth over him and taketh off the coif of his habergeon and unlaceth his ventail . 
What have you in mind to do ? said Aristor . 
I will cut off your head , said Perceval , and present it to my sister whom you have failed . 
Do not so ! saith Aristor , But let me live , and I will forgo my hatred . 
He smiteth off his head incontinent and hangeth it at his saddle bow , and cometh to the Knight Hardy , and asketh him how it is with him . 
Sir , saith he , I am very nigh my death , but I comfort me much of this that I see you tofore I die . 
When mass had been sung for the knight that was dead , and the body buried , Perceval departed . 
Sir , saith the damsel that followed him , Even now have you much to do . 
Of this cruel knight and felonous you have avenged this country . 
Now , God grant you find betimes the Red Knight that slew your uncle's son . 
V. Perceval goeth toward the great Deep Forest without tarrying , and the damsel after . 
But , or ever he came thither , he met a knight that was wounded right sore , both he and his horse . 
Ha , Sir , saith he to Perceval , Enter not into this forest , whence I have scarce escaped with much pains . 
Of him , saith the damsel , need you have no fear , for you may see his head hanging at the knight's saddle bow . 
The knight departeth from Perceval , but the lion had wounded his horse so passing sore in the quarters that scarce could he go . 
The knight goeth him much thanks of this that he saith . 
And I will lend you them both twain if you will . 
Sir , saith the knight , I ask but for one of them . 
He taketh Aristor's horse , that seemed him the better , and straightway mounteth thereon , and abandoneth his own , that might go no further . 
He smote the knight through the body with his spear and so slew him , then took the horse and went away forthwith . 
The damsel draweth her back for fear , and Perceval goeth toward the lion that had espied him already , and came toward him , eyes on fire and jaws yawning wide . 
The lion gave out a roar so loud that all the forest resounded thereof . 
The Red Knight heareth his lion roar , and so cometh thither a great gallop , but , or ever he was come thither , Perceval had slain the lion . 
When the knight saw his lion dead , right sorry was he thereof . 
Perceval cometh against him without more words , and the knight in like manner with a great rushing , and breaketh his spear upon his shield . 
Perceval smiteth him with such force that he thrusteth his spear right through his body and beareth him to the ground dead beside his horse . 
Perceval alighteth of his own when he hath slain the knight , and then mounteth him on the Red Knight's horse for that his own might carry him no longer . 
Sir , saith the damsel , My castle is in the midst of this forest , that the Red Knight reft away from me long ago . 
I pray you now come with me thither that I may be assured thereof in such sort as that I may have it again wholly . 
Damsel , saith Perceval , This have I no right to deny you . 
They ride amidst the forest so long as that they come to the castle where the damsel ought to be . 
It stood in the fairest place of all the forest , and was enclosed of high Walls battlemented , and within were fair windowed halls . 
The tidings were come to the castle that their lord was dead . 
Perceval and the damsel entered in . 
He made the damsel be assured of them that were therein , and made them yield up her castle that they well knew was hers of right inheritance . 
The damsel made the head be buried that she had carried so long , and bade that every day should mass be done within for the soul of him . 
When Perceval had sojourned therein as long as pleased him , he departed thence . 
The history saith that Perceval is come into a hold , there where his sister was in the house of a vavasour that was a right worshipful man . 
Each day the damsel made great dole of the knight that was to take her , for the day was already drawing somewhat nigh , and she knew not that he was dead . 
Full often lamented she the Widow Lady her mother , that in like sort made great dole for her daughter . 
The vavasour comforted the damsel right sweetly and longed for her brother Perceval , but little thought he that he was so near him . 
And Perceval is come to the hold all armed , and alighteth at the mounting stage before the hall . 
The vavasour cometh to meet him , and marvelleth much who he is , for the more part believed that he was one of Aristor's knights . 
Sir , saith the vavasour , Welcome may you be ! Good adventure may you have , Sir ! saith Perceval . 
He holdeth Aristor's head in his hand by the hair , whereof the vavasour marvelled much that he should carry a knight's head in such wise . 
Perceval cometh to the master chamber of the hall , where his sister was , that bewailed her right sore . 
X. Damsel , saith he to his sister , Weep not , for your wedding hath failed . 
She leapeth up and maketh him the greatest joy that ever damsel made to knight . 
She knoweth not what to do . 
So joyful is she , that all have pity on her that see her of her weeping for the joy that she maketh of her brother . 
The story saith that they sojourned therewithin and that the vavasour showed them much honour . 
The damsel made cast the knight's head into a river that ran round about the hold . 
Full sorrowful was she moreover of her brother , the King Hermit that had been killed in such wise . 
Perceval cometh to the chamber where his mother was lying and might not stint of making dole . 
He taketh his sister by the hand and cometh before her . 
So soon as she knoweth him she beginneth to weep for joy , and kisseth them one after the other . 
Fair son , saith she , You say well , and there would I fain be . 
Certes , fair brother , saith she , None shall I never marry , save God alone . 
Fair son , saith the Widow Lady , The Damsel of the Car goeth to seek you , and I shall end not until such time as she hath round you . 
Lady , saith he , In some place will she have tidings of me and I of her . 
Fair son , saith the Lady , The damsel is here within that the felonous knight wounded through the arm , that carried of your sister , but she is healed . 
Lady , saith he , I am well avenged . 
He telleth her all the adventures until the time when he reconquered the castle that was his uncle's . 
He sojourned long time with his mother in the castle , and saw that the land was all assured and peaceable . 
He departed thence and took his leave , for he had not yet achieved all that he had to do . 
His mother remained long time , and his sister , at Camelot , and led a good life and a holy . 
Sithence then hath the place been so builded up as that there is an abbey there and folk of religion , and many bear witness that there it is still , right fair . 
He harboured him therein , and the knight showed him much honour and made him be unarmed , and brought him a robe to do on . 
Perceval seeth that the knight is a right simple man , and that he sigheth from time to time . 
Sir , saith he , Meseemeth you are not over joyous . 
Perceval was little glad of these tidings , for that he had sent him that had been slain on account of the horse . 
Sir , saith Perceval , Your brother had not deserved his death , methinketh , for it was not he that slew the knight . 
No , Sir , I know it all of a truth , but another , that slew the Red Knight of the Deep Forest . 
He lay the night at the hostel and was harboured right well , and on the morrow departed when he had taken leave . 
He wandered until he came to a hermitage there where he heard mass . 
Wherefore they meet no knight in this forest but they are minded to slay him for the knight that slew these twain . 
Sir , saith Perceval , God keep me from meeting such folk as would do me evil . 
A second knight was with him . 
They abide when they see Perceval . 
By my head , saith one of them , This same shield bare he that slew Aristor , as it was told us , and , like enough , it may be he . 
They come toward him , full career . 
Perceval seeth them coming , and forgetteth not his spurs , but rather cometh against them the speediest he may . 
The two knights smote him upon the shield and brake their spears . 
Perceval overtaketh him that sitteth on Aristor's horse and thrusteth an ell's length of his spear through his body and so overthroweth him dead . 
He delivered unto him the horse of Aristor and the other of the knight that he had sent thither . 
Sir , saith the hermit , But now since , were here three knights . 
So soon as they knew that the two were dead whose horses you had delivered unto me , they departed , fleeing the speediest they might . 
He knew Perceval by the shield that he bare . 
Sir , saith he , Haste , moreover , on account of a thing most pitiful that I heard in this forest . 
I heard how a knight was leading a damsel against her will , beating her with a great scourge . 
He hath ridden until he is come into the deepest of the forest and the thickest . 
He bideth awhile and listeneth and heareth the voice of the damsel , that was in a great valley where the Serpent's pit was , wherein the knight was minded to set her . 
She cried right loud for mercy , and wept , and the knight gave her great strokes of the scourge to make her be still . 
Perceval had no will to tarry longer , but rather cometh thither as fast as he may . 
So soon as the damsel seeth Perceval , she knoweth him again . 
She claspeth her two hands together and saith , Ha , Sir , for God's sake have mercy ! Already have you given me back the castle whereof this knight would reave me . 
The horse whereon Perceval sat , the knight knew him . 
And Perceval alighteth to the ground and cometh where the knight lay . 
And he crieth him mercy that he slay him not . 
He maketh alight the other old knight and the priest , then maketh the knight be carried to the Pit of the Serpent and the worms , whereof was great store . 
The pit was dark and deep . 
When that the knight was therein he might not live long for the worms that were there . 
The damsel thanked Perceval much of this goodness and of the other that he had done her . 
The son of the Widow Lady of his good knighthood knoweth not how to live without travail . 
He well knoweth that when he hath been at the Black Hermit's castle , he will in some measure have achieved his task . 
But many another thing behoveth him to do tofore , and little toil he thinketh it , whereof shall God be well pleased . 
He met a knight at the entrance of a forest . 
I may not pass through the land but by truce only . 
Now throughout all the land they believe in the Saviour of the World . 
And I tell you this , saith the knight , because I would not that you should go thither as yet , for that I misdoubt of your being troubled thereby . 
In like manner as He put His body in pain and travail for us , so ought each to put his own for Him . 
He departeth from the knight , and was right joyous of this that he heard him say that Lancelot had won a kingdom wherein he had done away the false Law . 
Perceval rideth until nightfall , and findeth a great castle fortified with a great drawbridge , and there were tall ancient towers within . 
He espied at the door a squire that had the weight of a chain on his neck , and at the other end the chain was fixed to a great bulk of iron . 
The chain was as long as the length of the bridge . 
Then cometh he over against Perceval when he seeth him coming . 
Sir , saith he , Meseemeth you believe in God ? Fair friend , so do I , the best I may . 
Sir , for God's sake , enter not this castle ! Wherefore , fair friend ? saith Perceval . 
Sir , saith he , I will tell you . 
I am Christian , even as are you , and I am thrall within there and guard this gate , as you see . 
But it is the most cruel castle that I know , and it is called the Raving Castle . 
Moreover , there is within one of the fairest damsels that saw I ever . 
He entereth into the castle and alighteth in the midst of the courtyard . 
The damsel was at the windows of the hall , that was of passing great beauty . 
She cometh down as soon as she may , and seeth Perceval come in and the cross on his shield , and knoweth well thereby that he is Christian . 
They will all go out of their senses so soon as they shall see you ! XX . 
Perceval goeth up into the hall , all armed , for all that the damsel saith . 
She followeth him as fast as she may . 
The three knights espied Perceval all armed and the cross on his shield , and forthwith leapt up and were beside themselves . 
They rolled their eyes and tore themselves and roared like devils . 
Perceval beheld the miracle of these folks that were thus killed , and the damsel that made right great dole thereof . 
The castle was all emptied of the misbelieving folk save only the damsel and those that waited upon her , and the Christian thrall that guarded the gate . 
Perceval set him forth of the chain , then led him up into the hall and made him disarm him . 
He found sundry right rich robes . 
The damsel , that was of right great beauty , looked at him and saw that he was a full comely knight , and well pleased she was with him . 
She honoured him in right great sort , but she might not forget the three knights that were her brothers , and made sore dole for them . 
Damsel , saith Perceval , Nought availeth it to make this dole , but take comfort on some other manner . 
In this mind was she still , nor never might she refrain her heart from him . 
Thinketh she rather that , and he knew she was minded to love him , right joyous would he be thereof , for that she is of so passing beauty . 
Perceval asketh the damsel what she hath in her thought ? Sir , saith she , Nought think I but only good and you will . 
Damsel , saith Perceval , Never , please God , shall there be hindrance of me but that you renounce this evil Law and believe in the good . 
Sir , saith she , Do you renounce yours for love of me , and I will do your commandment and your will . 
Damsel , saith Perceval , Nought availeth to tell me this . 
Were you man like as you are woman , your end would have come with the others . 
But , please God , your tribulation shall tend itself to good . 
Sir , saith she , I ask no more of you . 
She biddeth send for a holy man , a hermit that was in the forest appurtenant , and right gladly came he when he heard the tidings . 
They held her up and baptized her , both her and her damsels with her . 
Perceval held her at the font . 
Josephus witnesseth us in this history that she had for name Celestre . 
And great joy made she of her baptism , and her affections turned she unto good . 
The hermit remained there with her , and taught her to understand the firm believe , and did the service of Our Lord . 
The damsel was of right good life and right holy , and ended thereafter in many good works . 
Perceval departed from the castle , and gave thanks to Our Lord and praise , that He hath allowed him to conquer a castle so cruel and to attorn it to the Law . 
He is come towards an ancient castle that was at the head of a forest . 
He looketh and seeth at the entrance of the gateway a full great throng of folk . 
He seeth a squire come forth thence , and asketh him unto whom belongeth the castle . 
For this doubtance and fear of him she is minded to go to one of her own castles that is somewhat stronger . 
Perceval departeth from the squire and rideth until they that were at the entrance of the gateway espied him . 
They saw the Red Cross that he bare on his shield , and said to the Queen , Lady , a Christian knight is coming into this castle . 
Take heed , saith she , that it be not he that is about to overthrow our Law ! Perceval cometh thither and alighteth , and cometh before the Queen all armed . 
The Queen asketh what he seeketh . 
Lady , saith he , Nought seek I save good only to yourself so you hinder it not . 
You come , saith she , from the Raving Castle , there where three brothers are slain , whereof is great loss . 
Lady , saith he , At that castle was I , and now fain would I that your own were at the will of Jesus Christ , in like manner as is that . 
By my head , saith she , And your Lord hath so great power as is said , so will it be . 
Lady , His virtue and His puissance are far greater than they say . 
That would I fain know , saith she , presently , and I am fain to pray you that you depart not from me until that it hath been proven . 
She returned into her castle and Perceval with her . 
When he was alighted he went up into the hall . 
Lords , saith she , Hearken ye all , for now will I tell you the truth like as it hath befallen me . 
And methought that an ancient man that was with Her , told me that My Lady had lost no whit of her maidenhood for the Child . 
Well pleased was I the while this thing lasted me . 
It seemed me that I saw it like as I do you . 
They would have no mercy on Him . 
Of this might I not hold myself but that I wept for pity of Him . 
Therewithal I awoke and marvelled much whence it should come and what it might be . 
But in anyway it pleased me much that I had seen it . 
On the other side of the cross was a man that seemed not joyful , but he recomforted the Lady the fairest he might . 
And another folk were there that collected His blood in a most holy Vessel that one of them held for it . 
Afterward , methought I saw Him taken down of hanging on the cross , and set in a sepulchre of stone . 
Thereof had I great pity for , so long as meseemed I saw Him thus never might I withhold me from weeping . 
And so soon as the pity came into my heart , and the tears into my eyes , I had my sight even as you see . 
In this Lord I will that ye all believe , and so renounce our false gods , for they be devils and therefore may not aid us nor avail us . 
And he that will not believe , him will I make be slain or die a shameful death . 
The Lady made her be held up and baptized , and all them that would not do the same she made be destroyed and banished . 
This history telleth us that her name was Salubre . 
She was good lady and well believed in God , and so holy life led she thereafter that in a hermitage she died . 
Perceval departed from the castle right joyous in his heart of the Lady and her people that believed in the New Law . 
Now , saith Meliot of Logres , never shall he have ease again until he knoweth where Messire Gawain is . 
He rideth amidst a forest , and prayeth God grant him betimes to hear witting of Messire Gawain . 
The forest was strange and gloomy . 
He rode until nightfall but might not find neither hold nor hermitage . 
He looketh right amidst the forest before him and seeth a damsel sitting that bemoaneth herself full sore . 
The moon was dark and the place right foul of seeming and the forest gloomy of shadow . 
Ha , damsel , and what do you here at this hour ? Sir , saith she , I may not amend it , the more is my sorrow . 
For the place is more perilous than you think . 
Look , saith she , up above , and you will see the occasion wherefore I am here . 
Meliot looketh and seeth two knights all armed hanging up above the damsel's head . 
Ha , damsel , saith he , Who slew these knights so foully ? Sir , saith she , The Knight of the Galley that singeth in the sea . 
And wherefore hath he hanged them in such wise ? For this , saith she , that they believed in God and His sweet Mother . 
By my head , saith Meliot , Such watch is foul shame to damsel , and no longer shall you remain here . 
Ha , Sir , saith the damsel , Then shall I be a dead woman , for he is of so great cruelty that none scarce might protect me against him . 
Damsel , saith Meliot , Foul shame would it be and I left here these knights in such wise for the reproach of other knights . 
Meliot made them graves with his sword , and so buried them the best he might . 
Sir , saith the damsel , And you take not thought to protect me , the knight will slay me . 
To morrow , when he findeth not the knights , he will search all the forest to look for me . 
Meliot and the damsel together go their way through the forest until they come to a chapel where was wont to be a hermit that the Knight of the Galley had destroyed . 
But this damsel would still have taken respite of my death and she had still kept guard over the knights that were so foully hanged above her . 
Damsel , saith Meliot , The knight is but a man like as am I. Yea , Sir , but stronger is he and more cruel than seem you to be . 
He crieth out to him Sir , behold there the disloyal knight through whom you have lost your castle . 
And the knight smiteth him so hard on his shield that he maketh an ell's length pass beyond , for right wroth was he that he was wounded . 
The dwarf crieth to him , Away , then ! The knight endureth against you that have slain so many of them ! The Knight of the Galley waxeth wood wrath . 
The dwarf thought to escape , but Meliot smote off his head , whereof the damsels gave him great thanks , for many a mischief had he wrought them . 
Meliot buried the knight that he found in the chapel dead , then told the damsels that he might abide no longer , but would go succour Messire Gawain and he might . 
The damsels were horsed to their will , for one had the horse of the knight that was slain and the other the horse of the dwarf . 
The other damsel was come upon a mule , and they said that they would go back , for the country was made all safe by the death of the knight . 
They thanked Meliot much , for they say truly that he hath rescued them from death . 
Meliot departeth from the damsels and goeth right amidst the forest as he that would most fain hear tidings of Messire Gawain . 
When he had ridden of a long space , he met a knight that was coming all armed at great pace . 
Sir Knight , saith he to Meliot , Can you tell me tidings of the Knight of the Galley ? What have you to do therein ? saith Meliot . 
Sir , the Lord of the Red Tower hath made bring Messire Gawain into a launde of this forest , and there , all unarmed , must he do battle with a lion . 
So my lord is waiting for the Knight of the Galley , that is to bring two damsels thither that the lion will devour when he shall have slain Messire Gawain . 
Will the battle be presently ? saith Meliot . 
Then will he be unbound , but even then two knights all armed will keep watch on him . 
But tell me tidings of the Knight of the Galley , and you have seen him ? Go forward , saith he , and you will hear tidings of him . 
Meliot departeth thereupon , a great gallop , and cometh nigh the launde whereunto Messire Gawain had been brought . 
He espied the two knights that kept guard over him , and if that Messire Gawain were in fear , little marvel was it , for he thought that his end had come . 
Meliot espied him bound to an iron staple with cords about the body on all sides so that he might not move . 
Meliot hath great pity thereof in his heart , and saith to himself that he will die there sooner than Messire Gawain shall die . 
The other was fain to go to the castle for succour when he saw his fellow dead . 
He cometh to Messire Gawain , and so unbindeth him and cutteth the cords wherewith he is bound . 
Sir , saith he , I am Meliot of Logres , your knight . 
V. When Messire Gawain felt himself unbound , no need to ask whether he had joy thereof . 
When Meliot had delivered Messire Gawain he made him be armed with the arms , such as they were , of one of the knights he had slain . 
Messire Gawain mounted on a horse such as pleased him , and right great joy had he at heart . 
They marvel much how it is that they of the castle have not come after them , but they know not their thought nor how they are scared . 
They went thither as fast as they might , and when they drew nigh to the ship they knew that it was Perceval by his arms and his shield . 
Messire Gawain seeth the ship going further away , and Perceval that defendeth himself therein against them that set upon him . 
Right heavy is he that he came not sooner , or ever the ship had put off from the land . 
They have ridden until they meet a knight . 
Messire Gawain asketh him whence he cometh , and he saith from King Arthur's court . 
What tidings can you tell us thereof ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , bad enough ! saith he . 
King Arthur hath neglected all his knights for Briant of the Isles , and hath put one of his best knights in prison . 
What is his name ? saith Messire Gawain . 
Sir , he is called Lancelot of the Lake . 
Sir Knight , saith Messire Gawain , Needs must the King miscarry that setteth aside the counsel of his good knights for the leasings of a traitor . 
Thereupon the knight departed from Messire Gawain . 
Right heavy is he of this that he hath said , that the King hath put Lancelot in prison . 
Never tofore did he aught whereby he wrought so much to blame . 
He draweth toward his land the nighest he may , and hath won back the kingdom of Oriande all at his will . 
But they of Albanie still hold against him and challenge the land the best they may . 
Lucan the Butler seeth him right heavy and draweth nigh unto him quietly . 
Sir , saith he , Meseemeth you are without joy . 
Moreover , King Claudas warreth upon me and conquereth my lands so that no power have I to rescue me for default of my knights . 
Sir , saith Lucan , Herein is there nought whereof you have right to accuse any save yourself alone . 
For you have done evil unto him that hath served you , and good unto them that are traitors to you . 
You have one of the best knights in the world and the most loyal in your prison , wherefore all the other hold them aloof from your court . 
And know of a truth that Lancelot and Messire Gawain are the best of your court . 
The King held by the counsel of Lucan the Butler . 
The King commanded that Lancelot should be well cared for and made whole again , and that all should be at his commandment . 
The court was all overjoyed thereof , and they said now at last might the King make war in good assurance . 
Lancelot was foremost in the King's court and more redoubted than was ever another of the knights . 
Briant of the Isles came one day before the King . 
Sir , saith he , Behold , here is Lancelot that wounded me in your service , wherefore I will that he know I am his enemy . 
For well may I deem of your love according as I have found it in you . 
Sir , saith Briant to the King , You are my lord , and I am one you are bound to protect . 
Say not that I depart thence with any shame as toward myself . 
Briant , saith the King , Remain as yet , and I will make amends for you to Lancelot , and I myself will make amends for him to you . 
King Claudas sweareth unto him and maketh pledge that never will he fail him , and Briant to him again . 
The ship ran on by night and by day as it pleased God , until that they saw a castle and an island of the sea . 
He asked his pilot if he knew what castle it was . 
Certes , saith he , Not I , for so far have we run that I know not neither the sea nor the stars . 
They come nigh the castle , and saw four that sounded bells at the four corners of the town , right sweetly , and they that sounded them were clad in white garments . 
So soon as the ship had taken haven under the castle , the sea withdraweth itself back , so that the ship is left on dry land . 
None were therein save Perceval , his horse , and the pilot . 
They issued forth of the ship and went by the side of the sea toward the castle , and therein were the fairest halls and the fairest mansions that any might see ever . 
Above this fountain were two men sitting , their beards and hair whiter than driven snow , albeit they seemed young of visage . 
Sir , say they , Marvel not of this that we do , for well knew we the knight that bare this shield tofore you . 
Many a time we saw him or ever God were crucified . 
Perceval marvelleth much of this that they say , for they talk of a time that is long agone . 
Lords , know ye then how he was named ? Say they , Joseph of Abarimacie , but no cross was there on the shield before the death of Jesus Christ . 
But he had it set thereon after the crucifixion of Jesus Christ for the sake of the Saviour that he loved so well . 
He looketh thereinto and seeth the knight , and speaketh unto him many times , but never the more willeth the knight to answer him . 
Perceval looketh at him in wonderment , and cometh back to the good men and asketh them who is this knight , and they tell him that he may know not as yet . 
They lead him to a great hall and bear his shield before him , whereof they make right great joy , and show thereunto great worship . 
He seeth the hall right rich , for hall so rich and so fair had he seen never . 
Sir , say the two Masters to Perceval , This house that you see here so rich , is the hall royal . 
By my faith , saith Perceval , So ought it well to be , for never saw I none so much of worth . 
He Looketh all around , and seeth the richest tables of gold and ivory that he saw ever . 
One of the Masters clappeth his hands thrice , and three and thirty men come into the hall all in a company . 
They were clad in white garments , and not one of them but had a red cross in the midst of his breast , and they seemed to be all of an age . 
As soon as they enter into the hall they do worship to God Our Lord and set out their cups . 
Then went they to wash at a great laver of gold , and then went to sit at the tables . 
The Masters made Perceval sit at the most master table with themselves . 
They were served thereat right gloriously , and Perceval looked about him more gladlier than he ate . 
V. And while he was thus looking , he seeth a chain of gold come down above him loaded with precious stones , and in the midst thereof was a crown of gold . 
The chain descended a great length and held on to nought save to the will of Our Lord only . 
As soon as the Masters saw it descending they opened a great wide pit that was in the midst of the hall , so that one could see the hole all openly . 
Perceval heareth this dolour , and marvelleth much what it may be . 
He seeth that the chain of gold descendeth thither and is there stayed until they have well nigh eaten , and then draweth itself again into the air and so goeth again aloft . 
But Perceval knoweth not what became thereof , and the Master covereth the pit again , that was right grisly to see , and pitiful to hear were the voices that issued therefrom . 
The Good Men rose from the tables when they had eaten , and gave thanks right sweetly to Our Lord and then returned thither whence they had come . 
Sir , saith the Master to Perceval , The chain of gold that you have seen is right precious and the crown of gold likewise . 
And so I tell you that King Hermit , whom you will succeed , hath sent thither a great part of his folk . 
But of the other I tell you that they are in the Poverty stricken Island . 
But we know not whether they shall ever issue forth thence . 
I saw the Graal , saith the Master , or ever Joseph , that was uncle to King Fisherman , collected therein the blood or Jesus Christ . 
Know that well am I acquainted with all your lineage , and of what folk you were born . 
The Master cometh to him after the mass and bringeth him a shield as white as snow . 
Afterwards , he saith , You will leave me your shield within for token of your coming and will bear this . 
Sir , saith Perceval , I will do your pleasure . 
He entereth into the ship and the sail is set . 
He leaveth the land far behind , and the pilot steereth the ship and Our Lord God guideth and leadeth him . 
They cast anchor , and Perceval is come toward the castle and entereth in all armed . 
He seeth the castle large , and the dwelling chambers fallen down and the house place roofless , and he seeth a lady sitting before the steps of an old hall . 
She rose up as soon as she saw him , but she was right poorly clad . 
Sir , saith she to Perceval , Welcome may you be . 
No knight have I seen enter this castle of a long time . 
Lady , saith Perceval , God grant you joy and honour ! Sir , saith she , Need have we thereof , for none scarce have I had this long while past . 
She leadeth him into a great ancient hall that was right poorly garnished . 
Sir , saith she , Here will you harbour you the night , and you would take in good part that we may do and you knew the plight of this castle . 
She maketh him be unarmed of a servant that was there within , and the damsels come before him and serve him right sweetly . 
The lady bringeth him a mantle to do on . 
Sir , saith she , Within are no better garments wherewith to show you honour than this . 
X. Perceval heareth that the two damsels are his uncle's daughters , and hath great pity thereof . 
Is his castle near this , Lady ? saith he . 
For none that is in this land durst offend against him . 
Lady , saith Perceval , An oath is not always kept . 
To the two damsels , please God , shall he do no shame , and right heavy am I of that he hath done already , for they were daughters of mine uncle . 
Alain li Gros was my father and Galobrutus my uncle , and many another good man that now is dead . 
And he saith that he will not depart from their land until he hath done all he may . 
He remaineth the night in the castle and his mariner likewise . 
The lady made great joy of Perceval , and did him all the honour she might . 
When the morrow came they showed him the land of the King that had reft them of their land , but the lady could not tell him where her son was in prison . 
So he prayeth God grant him that he may be able to give them back their land and bring them out of the poverty wherein they are . 
He roweth until that he is come under a rock , wherein was a cave at top round and narrow and secure like as it were a little house . 
Perceval looketh on that side , and seeth a man sitting within . 
He maketh the ship draw nigh the rock , then looketh and seeth the cutting of a way that went upwards through the rock . 
He is come forth of the ship and goeth up the little path until he cometh into the little house . 
He findeth within one of the comeliest knights in the world . 
He had a ring at his feet and a collar on his neck with a chain whereof the other end was fixed by a staple into a great ledge of the rock . 
He rose up over against Perceval as soon as he saw him . 
Sir Knight , saith Perceval , You are well made fast . 
Sir , that irketh me , saith the knight , Better should I like myself elsewhere than here . 
You would be right , saith Perceval , For you are in right evil plight in the midst of this sea . 
The King that hath imprisoned me here hath reft her castles like as he hath those of my lady my mother . 
When Galobruns heareth that he is his uncle's son , great joy hath he thereof . 
He would have fallen at his feet , but Perceval would not , and said to him , Now be well assured , for I will seek your deliverance . 
He cometh down from the rock , and so entereth the ship and roweth of a long space . 
There was a damsel with him , that had climbed up also for dread of a serpent , great and evil favoured that had issued from a hole in a mountain . 
The damsel seeth Perceval's ship coming , and crieth out to him . 
Ha , Sir , saith she , Come to help this King that is up above , and me that am a damsel ! Whereof are you afeard , damsel ? saith Perceval . 
And what is the King's name , damsel ? saith Perceval . 
Sir , he is called Gohaz of the Castle of the Whale . 
This great land is his own that is so plenteous , and other lands enow that he hath reft of my father and of other . 
The King had great shame of this that the damsel told him , and made answer never a word . 
Perceval understandeth that it was he that held his cousin in prison , and is issued from the ship forthwith , sword drawn . 
The serpent seeth him , and cometh toward him , jaws yawning , and casteth forth fire and flame in great plenty . 
Perceval thrusteth his sword right through the gullet . 
Now may you come down , saith he to the King . 
Sir , saith he , The key of a chain wherewith a certain knight is bound hath fallen , and the serpent seized it . 
Perceval rendeth open the throat and findeth the key forthwith , all red hot with the fire of the serpent . 
Sir Knight , saith Gohaz , Take heed what you do , for I am King of this land . 
Therefore , saith Perceval , I do it . 
For , had it been another I should do it not . 
Perceval understandeth that it is the damsel of whom Galobruns spake such praise . 
He goeth to bring her down from the tree , then bringeth her into the ship , and so goeth back toward the rock where his cousin was . 
When the King heard this , he was glad thereof not a whit , and the damsel was loath not a whit , whom he had thus disherited . 
They row until they come to the rock . 
Perceval issueth forth of the ship , and bringeth Gohaz up maugre his head . 
Now let him be here , saith he , in such sort and in such prison as he put me for well I know that he will be succoured of none . 
Perceval alloweth him everything therein at his will . 
They enter into the ship and leave Gohaz all sorrowing on the rock , that never thereafter are nor drank . 
Perceval hath rowed until that he is come nigh a castle that was burning fiercely with a great flame , and seeth a hermitage upon the sea hard by . 
He seeth the hermit at the door of the chapel , and asketh him what the castle is that hath caught fire thus . 
Sir , saith the hermit , I will tell you . 
Joseus , the son of King Pelles , slew his mother there . 
Perceval marvelleth much , and knew well that it was the castle of King Hermit his uncle . 
He looketh and seeth on an island twelve hermits sitting on the seashore . 
The sea was calm and untroubled , and he made cast the anchor so as to keep the ship steady . 
Then he saluteth the hermits , and they all bow down to him in answer . 
He was the last of the brothers that died . 
When Perceval heard this he had pity thereof , and issued forth of the ship and came to land , and his mariner with him . 
He prayed the hermits that they would lead him to the graveyard where the knights lay , and gladly did they so . 
Perceval is come thither and seeth the coffins right rich and fair , and the chapels full fairly dight , and every coffin lay over against the altar in each chapel . 
Perceval kneeleth down before it , then embraceth the coffin and prayeth right sweetly for the soul of his father , and in like manner he went to all the other coffins . 
He harboured the night with the hermits , and told them that Alain li Gros was his father and all the other his uncles . 
He entered into the ship and sped full swift , and so far hath the ship run that he draweth nigh the islands of Great Britain . 
He arriveth at the head of a forest under the Red Tower whereof he had slain the lord , there where Meliot delivered Messire Gawain . 
He is issued forth of the ship and leadeth forth his horse and is armed , and commendeth the pilot to God . 
Perceval looked at the lady that held him and served him full sweetly , and deemed her to be a good lady and a loyal . 
The Sick Knight called to Perceval . 
Sir , saith he , Are you come in hither to harbour ? Sir , saith Perceval , So please you , I will harbour here . 
Then blame me not , saith the knight , of that you shall see me do unto my wife . 
Sir , saith Perceval , Sith that she is yours , you have a right to do your pleasure , but in all things ought one to be heedful on one's way . 
My lord hath told me many times , sithence he heard tidings thereof , that never shall the despite he hath toward me be forgone , until that he shall have the cup . 
Howbeit , for no ill that he may do , nor no churlishness that he may say , will I be against him in nought that he hath set his mind on . 
For I would have him , and I had him , blessed be Lancelot through whom it was so . 
Lady , saith Perceval , By one of these Ywain ought you well to have it , for greater prize now long since have they won . 
For the knight that is within was at the reconquering . 
The Sick Knight heard her and had great joy thereof . 
Go ! saith he to his wife , and do great honour to the knight , but take heed you sit not otherwise than you are wont . 
Sir , saith she , I will not . 
The damsel maketh Perceval sit at meat . 
When he had washen , he thought that the lady should have come to sit beside him , but she would not disobey her lord's commandment . 
When Perceval was set at the table and he had been served of the first meats , thereupon the lady went to sit with the squires . 
Perceval was much shamed that she should sit below , but he was not minded to speak , for she had told him somewhat of her lord's manner . 
He hath scarce gone thereinto or ever he hath overtaken the Damsel of the Car , that made full great joy of him . 
Sir , saith she , Bald was I the first time I saw you now may you see that I have my hair . 
Certes , yea ! saith Perceval , And , as methinketh , hair passing beautiful . 
But well know I wherefore they will cease then , for they will come to shut you up within to slay and to destroy . 
Perceval goeth toward the castle of the Black Hermit , and the Damsel of the Car after . 
The archers draw and shoot stoutly . 
Perceval goeth forward a great gallop , but they know him not on account of the white shield . 
They think rather that it is one of the other knights , and they lodge many arrows in his shield . 
He came nigh a drawbridge over a moat right broad and foul and horrible , and the bridge was lowered so soon as he came , and all the archers left of shooting . 
Then knew they well that it was Perceval who came . 
The door was opened to receive him , for they of the gate and they of the castle within thought to have power to slay him . 
Perceval entered all armed into a great hall , and found it filled all around with a great throng of folk that was right foul to look on . 
He that was called the Black Hermit was full tall and Seemed to be of noble lordship , and he was in the midst of the hall , all armed . 
Sir , say his men , And you have not defence of yourself , never no counsel nor aid may you have of us ! XXII . 
We are yours to guard , to protect , and oftentimes have we defended you now defend us in this sore need . 
The Black Hermit sate upon a tall black horse , and was right richly armed . 
So soon as Perceval espieth him , he cometh with such a rush against him that he maketh all the hall resound , and the Black Hermit cometh in like sort . 
And when they that were therein saw him fall , they opened the trap door of a great pit that was in the midst of the hall . 
So soon as they had opened it , the foulest stench that any smelt ever issued thereout . 
They take their lord and cast him into this abysm and this filth . 
After that , they come to Perceval , and so yield the castle and put them at his mercy in everything . 
Thereupon , behold you , the Damsel of the Car that cometh . 
She departeth from the castle and goeth the speediest she may toward the Valleys of Camelot . 
Perceval hath ridden until he hath overtaken the damsel that carried the rich cup of gold and the knight that was along with her . 
Perceval saluteth him , and the knight maketh answer , may he be blessed of God and of His sweet Mother . 
Fair Sir , saith Perceval , Is this damsel of your company ? Saith the knight , Rather am I of hers . 
So soon as it was known that the damsel with the cup was come thither , the fellowships assembled on all sides , and great was the clashing of arms . 
The more part said that he of the white shield had surpassed them all in arms , and all agreed thereto . 
The damsel was right glad , for well she knew that they spake truth . 
The elder Damsel of the Tent where the evil custom was wont to be , sent it to Messire Gawain , and Messire Gawain made much joy thereof . 
For Meliot had twice rescued him from death , and King Arthur once . 
He was liegeman of Messire Gawain . 
Wherefore he prayeth and beseecheth you on his behalf that you receive not the cup save you undertake to avenge him . 
For he was loved of all the court , albeit he had haunted it but little . 
Brundans slew him in treason when Meliot was unawares of him . 
He taketh the cup in his hand . 
Damsel , saith he , I thank you much hereof , and God grant I may reward you for the same . 
Sir , saith she , Brundans is a right proud knight , and beareth a shield party of vert and argent . 
He is minded never to change his cognisance , for that his father bore the same . 
Perceval called the knight that was of the damsel's company . 
Sir , saith the knight , This will I do gladly to fulfil your will . 
He taketh the cup to furnish out the conditions of the message , and so departeth forthwith . 
Perceval lay the night in the castle of the White Tower , and departed thence on the morrow as he that would fain do somewhat whereof he might deserve well of Messire Gawain . 
Many a time had he heard tell of Meliot of Logres and of his chivalry and of his great valour . 
He was entered into a forest , and had heard mass of a hermit , from whom he had departed . 
He came to the Castle Perilous that was hard by there where Meliot lay sick , lay wounded , when Lancelot brought him the sword and the cloth wherewith he touched his wounds . 
He entered into the castle and alighted . 
The damsel of the castle , that made great dole , came to meet Perceval . 
While she was speaking in this manner , forthwith behold you a damsel that cometh . 
A knight is carrying off my lady by force , that was going to the court of King Arthur . 
Who is your lady ? saith Perceval . 
Sir , she is the younger Damsel of the Tent where Messire Gawain overthrew the evil customs . 
For God's sake , hasten you , for he revileth her sore for her love of the King and of Messire Gawain . 
Perceval remounteth forthwith and issueth forth of the castle on the spur . 
The damsel bringeth him on as fast as the knight can go . 
Perceval espied the knight and saw that the cognisance of his shield was such as that which had been set forth to him . 
He will not stint for you yet ! saith Brundans . 
He raiseth his sword and dealeth the damsel a buffet with the fiat so passing heavy that it maketh her stoop withal so that the blood rayeth out at mouth and nose . 
By my head , saith Perceval , On this buffet I defy thee , for the death of Meliot and for the shame you have done this damsel . 
Then he alighteth over him , lowereth his coif , unlaceth the ventail , and smiteth off his head . 
Damsel , saith he , Take it , I present it to you . 
The damsel giveth him thanks for that he hath delivered her from the hands of the knight , and saith that she shall praise him much thereof to the King and Messire Gawain . 
She goeth her way and carrieth off the head , and Perceval biddeth her to God . 
He returned back to Castle Perilous , and the damsel made great joy thereof when she understood that he had slain Brundans . 
Perceval lay there that night , and departed on the morrow after that he had heard mass . 
When he came forth of the castle he met the knight by whom he had sent the cup to the Sick Knight's wife . 
Perceval asketh how it is with him . 
Sir , saith he , I have carried out your message right well , for never was a thing received with such good will . 
The Sick Knight hath forgone his grudge against his wife . 
She eateth at his table , and the household do her commandment . 
This liketh me right well , saith Perceval , and I thank you of doing this errand . 
Sir , saith the knight , No thing is there I would not do for you , for that you made my brother Knight Hardy there where you first saw him Knight Coward . 
Sir , saith he , Better is he dead , sith that he died with honour , than that he should live with shame . 
Yet glad was I not of his death , for a hardy knight he was , and yet more would have been , had he lived longer . 
Perceval departeth from the knight and commendeth him to God . 
The Widow Lady had made bear thither the body that lay in the coffin before the castle of Camelot in the rich chapel that she had builded there . 
His sister brought the cerecloth that she took in the Waste Chapel , and presented there where the Graal was . 
Therein abode they even as it pleased God , until that his mother passed away and his sister and all they that were therein save he alone . 
When the Voice departed , all the coffins that were therein crashed so passing loud that it seemed the master hall had fallen . 
He crosseth and blesseth him and commendeth him to God . 
On a day the hermits came to him . 
He disparted the holy relics among them , and they builded above them holy churches and houses of religion that are seen in the lands and in the islands . 
Joseus the son of King Hermit , remained therein with Perceval , for he well knew that he would be departing thence betimes . 
Perceval heard one day a bell sound loud and high without the manor toward the sea . 
When the ship was anchored under the hall they went to pray in the most holy chapel . 
But no savour in the world smelleth so sweet . 
Perceval took leave of Joseus and commended him to the Saviour of the World , and took leave of the household , from whom he departed in like manner . 
The worshipful men that were in the ship signed them of the cross and blessed them likewise . 
The ship wherein Perceval was drew far away , and a Voice that issued from the manor as she departed commended them to God and to His sweet Mother . 
Josephus recordeth us that Perceval departed in such wise , nor never thereafter did no earthly man know what became of him , nor doth the history speak of him more . 
He dwelt there long time after that Perceval had departed , and ended therein . 
After his end , the dwelling began to fall . 
Natheless never was the chapel wasted nor decayed , but was as whole thereafter as tofore and is so still . 
The place was far from folk , and the place seemed withal to be somewhat different . 
When it was fallen into decay , many folk of the lands and islands that were nighest thereunto marvel them what may be in this manor . 
Full comely knights they were , young and joyous hearted . 
In such sort made they answer to the folk . 
These two knights died in this holy life , nor were none other tidings never brought thence by them . 
They of that land called them saints . 
Here endeth the story of the most Holy Graal . 
Josephus , by whom it is placed on record , giveth the benison of Our Lord to all that hear and honour it . 
This story is right long and right adventurous and weighty , but the book will now forthwith be silent thereof until another time . 
EXPLICIT THE ROMANCE OF PERCEVAL THE NEPHEW OF KING FISHERMAN . 
