The Project Gutenberg Etext of The History and Practice of the Art of Photography THE HISTORY AND PRACTICE OF THE ART OF PHOTOGRAPHY OR THE PRODUCTION OF PICTURES THROUGH THE AGENCY OF LIGHT . 
CONTAINING ALL THE INSTRUCTIONS NECESSARY FOR THE COMPLETE PRACTICE OF THE DAGUERREAN AND PHOTOGENIC ART , BOTH ON METALIC , PLATES AND ON PAPER . 
New York PUBLISHED BY G. P. PUTNAM , Broadway , . 
Entered according to act of Congress in the year , by H. H. Snelling , in the Clerk's office , of the District Court of the Southern District of New York . 
New York PRINTED BY BUSTEED McCOY , Fulton Street . 
TO EDWARD ANTHONY , ESQ . 
Whose gentlemanly deportment , liberal feelings , and strict integrity have secured him a large circle of friends , this work is Respectfully Dedicated By the AUTHOR . 
The object of this little work is to fill a void much complained of by Daguerreotypists particularly young beginers . 
All the English works on the subject particularly on the practical application , of Photogenic drawing are deficient in many minute details , which are essential to a complete understanding of the art . 
To English authors I am principally indebted for that portion of my work relating to Photogenic drawing on paper . 
To them we owe nearly all the most important improvements in that branch of the art . 
Besides , it has been but seldom attempted in the United States , and then without any decided success . 
Of these attempts I shall speak further in the Historical portion of this volume . 
INTRODUCTION New York , January , . 
There is much in it to arouse the reflective and inventive faculties of our Daguerreotypists . 
A GOOD Daguerreotypist is by no means a mere machine following a certain set of fixed rules . 
And we see as a natural result , that while the business numbers its thousands of votaries , but few rise to any degree of eminence . 
entirely out of the question . 
The American mind needs a waking up upon the subject , and I think your book will give a powerful impulse in this direction . 
In Germany a high degree of perfection has been reached , and I hope your countrymen will not be slow to follow . 
I. A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE ART . 
As in all cases of great and valuable inventions in science and art the English lay claim to the honor of having first discovered that of Photogenic drawing . 
This claim is founded upon the fact that in Mr. Wedgwood recorded an experiment in the Journal of the Royal Institution of the following nature . 
This , by their own showing , was the earliest attempt of the English savans . 
This fact , if fact it be , may account for the celebrated magic mirrors said to be possessed by these jugglers , and probable cause of their power over the people . 
However , as early as the fact was established that a combination of chloride and silver . 
These incidents are considered as the first steps towards the discovery of the Photogenic art . 
Niepce and Daguerre of France , and to Professors Draper , and Morse of New York . 
Niepce and Daguerre pursued the subject simultaneously , without either , however being aware of the experiments of his colleague in science . 
For several years , each pursued his researches individually until chance made them acquainted , when they entered into co partnership , and conjointly brought the art almost to perfection . 
M. Niepce presented his first paper on the subject to the Royal Society in , naming his discovery Heliography . 
He was not willing that it should be confined to a few individuals who might monopolise the benefits to be derived from its practice , and shut out all chance of improvement . 
Like a true , noble hearted French gentleman he desired that his invention should spread freely throughout the whole world . 
Notwithstanding this , it has been patented in England and the result is what might have been expected English pictures are far below the standard of excellence of those taken by American artists . 
The execution of his pictures is also inferior to those taken by the German artists , and I would remark en passant , that the Messrs . 
four Calotypes , which one of the firm brought from Germany last Spring , that for beauty , depth of tone and excellence of execution surpass the finest steel engraving . 
M. Daguerre announced his splendid discovery , and its astounding results having an important bearing on the arts of design arrested his attention . 
In his letter to me on the subject , the Professor gives the following interesting facts . 
The process was a secret , and negociations were then in progress , for the disclosure of it to the public between the French government and the distinguished discoverer . 
I was exceedingly desirous of seeing them , but knew not how to approach M. Daguerre who was a stranger to me . 
On mentioning my desire to Robert Walsh , Esq . 
I was successfull in my application , and with a young friend , since deceased , the promising son of Edward Delevan , Esq . 
, I passed a most delightful hour with M. Daguerre , and his enchanting sun pictures . 
My letter containing an account of this visit , and these pictures , was the first announcement in this country of this splendid discovery . 
I may here add the singular sequel to this visit . 
On the succeeding day M. Daguerre paid me a visit to see the Telegraph and witness its operations . 
Fortunately for mankind , matter only was consumed , the soul and mind of the genius , and the process were still in existence . 
Thinking , at that time , that it was necessary to place the sitters in a very strong light , they were all taken with their eyes closed . 
Others were experimenting at the same time , among them Mr. Wolcott and Prof . 
Draper , and Mr. Morse , with his acustomed modesty , thinks that it would be difficult to say to whom is due the credit of the first Daguerreotype portrait . 
In connection with this matter I will give the concluding paragraph of a private letter from the Professor to me He says . 
I esteem it but the natural carrying out of the wonderful discovery , and that the credit was after all due to Daguerre . 
I lay no claim to any improvements . 
Since I commenced the compilation of this work , I have had the pleasure of making the acquaintance of an American gentleman James M. Wattles Esq . 
Drawing and painting being the natural bent of his mind , be was frequently employed by the professors to make landscape sketches in the manner mentioned . 
From wishing he brought himself to think that it was not only possible but actually capable of accomplishment and from thinking it could , he resolved it should be done . 
Be that as it may , I feel confident in the integrity of Mr. Wattles , and can give his statement to the world without a doubt of its truth . 
I then became convinced of the practicability of producing beautiful solar pictures in this way but , alas ! my picture vanished and with it , all no not all my hopes . 
I then made a strong solution of sal . 
soda I had in the house , and soaked my paper in it , and then washed it off in hot water , which perfectly fixed the view upon the paper . 
I have done so since , at various times , with perfect success but in every instance laboring under adverse circumstances . 
From the statement of Mr. Wattles , it will be perceived that this can be done without dishonor , as in the first instance Mr. Talbot had no positive right to his patent . 
Photography or sun painting is divided , according to the methods adopted for producing pictures , into DAGUERREOTYPE , CHROMATYPE , CALOTYPE , ENERGIATYPE , CHRYSOTYPE , ANTHOTYPE and CYANOTYPE , AMPHITYPE . 
That the results are effected by a principle associated with light and not by the luminous principle itself , is the most probable conclusion . 
The importance of a knowledge of this fact becomes most essential in practice , as will presently be seen . 
To this principle Mr. Hunt gives the name of ENERGIA . 
THE NATURE of Light is not wholly known , but it is generally believed to be matter , as in its motions it obeys the laws regulating matter . 
So closely is it connected with heat and electricity that there can be little doubt of their all being but different modifications of the same substance . 
These effects we shall exhibit in this and the following chapters . 
Before we enter on this subject it will be necessary to become familiar with the DEFINITIONS of some of the terms used in the science of optics . 
Luminous bodies are of two kinds those which shine by their own light , and those which shine by reflected light . 
Transparent bodies are such as permit rays of light to pass through them . 
Translucent bodies permit light to pass faintly , but without representing the figure of objects seen through them . 
Opaque bodies permit no light to pass through them , but reflect light . 
A ray is a line of light . 
A beam is a collection of parallel rays . 
A pencil is a collection of converging , or diverging rays . 
A medium is any space through which light passes . 
Incident rays are those which fall upon the surface of a body . 
Reflected rays are those which are thrown off from a body . 
Parallel rays are such as proceed equally distant from each other through their whole course . 
Converging rays are such as approach and tend to unite at any one point , as at b . 
Diverging rays are those which continue to recede from each other , as at e . 
A Focus is that point at which converging rays meet . 
For instance let a fig . 
, represent the luminous body from hipho . 
gif which light proceeds , and suppose three square boards , b . 
These same rays may be collected and their intensity again increased . 
The latter has no important bearing upon our subject . 
a representing the incident ray and b the reflected . 
The point , or angle c made by hipho . 
Smooth and polished surfaces reflect light most powerfully , and send to the eye the images of the objects from which the light proceeded before reflection . 
Parallel rays falling obliquely upon a plane mirror are reflected parallel converging rays , with the same degree of convergence and diverging rays equally divergent . 
Any object which reflects light is called a radiant . 
The point behind a reflecting surface , from which they appear to diverge , is called the virtual focus . 
Images are always reversed in mirrors . 
The greater the convexity of a mirror , the more will the images of the objects be diminished , and the nearer will they appear to the surface . 
These mirrors furnish science with many curious and pleasing facts . 
Rays of light may be collected in the focus of a mirror to such intensity as to melt metals . 
The ordinary burning glass is an illustration of this fact although the rays of light are refracted , or passed through the glass and concentrated into a focus beneath . 
When incident rays are parallel , the reflected rays converge to a focus , but when the incident rays proceed from a focus , or are divergent , they are reflected parallel . 
REFRACTION OF LIGHT I now pass to the consideration of the passage of light through bodies . 
Owing to this bending of the rays of light the angles of refraction and incidence are never equal . 
Inflamable bodies possess this power to a great degree . 
The RADIUS of a circle is a straight line passing from the centre to the circumference . 
I will conclude this chapter with a brief statement of the principles upon which the Photographic art is founded . 
SOLAR and Steller light contains three kinds of rays , viz . 
Colorific , or rays of color . 
Calorific , or rays of heat . 
Chemical rays , or those which produce chemical effects . 
On the first and third the Photographic principle depends . 
In explaining this principle the accompanying wood cuts , will render it more intelligible . 
These rays being absorbed , or reflected differently by various bodies , give to nature the charm of color . 
, will give the student a better idea of this principle . 
It is a copy of the kind of impression which the spectrum , spoken of , would make on a piece of paper covered with a very sensitive photographic preparation . 
corresponds with the most luminous , or yellow ray , over limits of which all chemical change is prevented . 
A similar action is also produced by the lower end of the red ray c but in the upper portion , however we find a decided change . 
The most active chemical change , you will percieve , is produced by the rays above the yellow a viz . 
rays the most so , the action still continuing far beyond the point b which is the end of the luminous image . 
A building painted of a yellow color , which may reflect the sun's rays directly into the operator's room will have the same effect . 
The action of light both combines and decomposes bodies . 
Of the organic substances none are more readily acted upon by light than the various combinations of silver . 
Of these some are more , and others less sensitive . 
to a solution of nitrate of silver , be exposed to diffused light , it speedily assumes a violet tint , and ultimately becomes nearly black . 
With iodide of silver , bromide of silver , ammonio nitrate of silver , and other salts of this metal , the result will be much the same . 
Some bodies , which under the influence of light , undergo chemical changes , have the power of restoring themselves to their original condition in the dark . 
This is more remarkably displayed in the iodide of platinum , which readily recieves a photogenic image by darkening over the exposed surfaces , but speedily loses it by bleaching in the dark . 
Possibly the hours of night are as necessary to inanimate nature as they are to the animate . 
This fact may be of benefit to engravers , for if steel can be made to take photographic impressions , the more laborious process of etching may be dispensed with . 
In fact , in the latter part of this work , a process is described for etching and taking printed impressions from Daguerreotype plates . 
As yet this process has produced no decided beneficial results but future experiments may accomplish some practical discovery of intrinsic value to the art of engraving . 
A very simple experiment will prove how essential light is to the coloring of the various species comprising the vegetable and animal kingdoms . 
If we transplant any shrub from the light of day into a dark cellar , we will soon see it lose its bright green color , and become perfectly white . 
Another effect of light is that it appears to impart to bodies some power by which they more readily enter into chemical combination with others . 
Here is again , evidence of either an absorption of some material agent from the sunbeam , or an alteration in the chemical constitution of the body . 
It was from understanding these principles and applying them that philosophers were enabled to produce the Calotype , Daguerreotype , c . 
and the fluoride of silver and on silver plate covered with a thin film of chloride . 
That great advantages have resulted , and that greater still will result from the discovery of the Photographic art , few will deny . 
HUNT'S TREATISE ON THE INFLUENCE OF THE SOLAR RAYS ON COMPOUND BODIES , WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THEIR PHOTOGRAPHIC APPLICATION . 
OXIDE OF SILVER exposed for a few hours to good sunshine , passes into a more decided olive color , than characterises it when first prepared by precipitation from nitrate of silver . 
Longer exposure renders this color very much lighter , and the covered parts , are found much darker , than those on which the light has acted directly . 
In some instances where the oxide of silver has been spread on the paper a decided whitening process in some parts , after a few days exposure , is noticed . 
Oxide of silver disolved in ammonia is a valuable photographic fluid one application of a strong solution forming an exceedingly sensitive surface . 
The pictures on this paper are easily fixed by salt or weak ammonia . 
This exhibits a remarkable analogy between heat and light , before spoken of in chap . 
II and is of some practical importance in the preparation of the paper . 
The method of accomplishing the prismatic decomposition of rays of light by the spectrum has already been described on pages and . 
When the spectrum is made to act on paper which has been previously darkened , by exposure to sunshine under cupro sulphate of ammonia , the phenomena are materially different . 
The tint of the general spectrum , too , instead of brown is dark grey , passing , however , at its most refracted or positive end into a ruddy brown . 
This salt of silver , whether in its precipitated state , or when fused , changes its color to a fine bluish grey by a very short exposure to the sun's rays . 
Great differences of color are produced on chlorides of silver precipitated by different muriates . 
Muriate of ammonia precipitates chloride to darken to a fine chocolate brown , whilst muriate of lime produces a brick red color . 
This difference of color appears to be owing to the admixture of the earth or alkali used with the silver salt . 
The prismatic impression on paper spread with the chloride of silver is often very beautifully tinted , the intensity of color varying with the kind of muriate used . 
Spread paper with muriate of ammonia or baryta and you obtain a range of colors nearly corresponding with the natural hues of the prismatic spectrum . 
Under favorable circumstances the mean red ray , leaves a red impression , which passes into a green over the space occupied by the yellow rays . 
Not only the extreme red ray exerts this very peculiar property , but the ordinary red ray through nearly its whole length . 
In photographic drawing this salt is of the utmost importance . 
Mr. Talbot's application of it will be given hereafter in another portion of this work . 
In its photographic application , it is , alone , of very little use but in combination with other reagents it becomes exquisitely sensitive . 
With gallic acid and the ferrocyanate of potash it forms two of the most sensitive photographic solutions with which we are acquainted . 
These are used in the calotype process . 
The exterior and most sensitive film constitutes the surface of Daguerreotype plates . 
The green rays are represented by a line of a corresponding tint , considerably less in size than the luminous green rays . 
A white line of vapor marks the place of the orange rays . 
This band is not equally well defined throughout its whole extent . 
Images on Daguerreotype plates which have been completely obliterated by rubbing may be restored , by placing it in a tolerably strong solution of iodine in water . 
Paper prepared with this salt , blackens over its whole extent with nearly equal intensity , when submitted to the prismatic spectrum . 
The most characteristic peculiarity of the spectrum is its extravagant length . 
Instead of terminating at the mean yellow ray , the darkened portion extends down to the very extremity of the visible red rays . 
In tint it is pretty uniformly of a grey black over its whole extent , except that a slight fringe of redness is perceptible at the least refracted end . 
This salt is extensively used in photographic drawing . 
This process may be quickened by placing the paper in cold water . 
Chloride of gold with nitrate of silver gives a precipitate of a yellow brown color . 
Paper impregnated with the acetate of lead , when washed with perfectly neutral chloride of gold , acquires a brownish yellow hue . 
I cannot , however , entirely dismiss the subject without giving a few examples of the action of light on the juices of plants , some of which produce very good photographic effect . 
The one on which the intensity and sub orange tint of the color depends , is speedily destroyed , but the paper is not thereby fully whitened . 
A paler yellow remains as a residual tint , and this on continued exposure to the light , slowly darkens to brown . 
Exposed to the spectrum , the paper is first reduced nearly to whiteness in the region of the blue and violet rays . 
More slowly , an insulated solar image is whitened in the less refrangible portion of the red . 
THE RED POPPY yields a very beautiful red color , which is entirely destroyed by light . 
When perfectly dried on paper the color becomes blue . 
This blue color is speedily discharged by exposure to the sun's rays , and papers prepared with it afford very interesting photographs . 
Future experiments will undoubtedly more fully develope the photogenic properties of flowers , and practically apply them . 
Certain precautions are necessary in extracting the coloring matter of flowers . 
It is then to be spread upon paper with a flat brush , and dried in the air . 
If alcohol be not added , it must be applied immediately , as the air changes or destroys the color instantly . 
Paper tinged with vegetable colors must be kept perfectly dry and in darkness . 
To secure an eveness of tint on paper it should be first moistened on the back by sponging , and blotting off with bibulous paper . 
It should then be pinned on a board , the moist side downwards , so that two of its edges the right and lower ones project a little over those of the board . 
Cross these with other strokes from above downwards , leaving no floating liquid on the paper . 
Dry as quickly as possible , avoiding , however , such heat as may injure the tint CHAP . 
A FEW HINTS AND SUGGESTIONS TO DAGUERREOTYPISTS . 
Impatience is a great drawback to perfect success , and combined with laziness is a decided enemy . 
There is no profession or trade in which a slovenly manner will not show itself , and none where its effects will be more apparent than this . 
In order to be great in any pursuit , we must be ourselves , and keep all things , in order . 
If possible , let the light be of a north western aspect , mellowed by curtains of a semitransparent hue . 
Your show cases , at the door , should be kept well cleaned . 
I have often been disgusted while attempting to examine portraits in the cases of our artists , at the greasy coating and marks of dirty fingers upon the glass and frame enclosing them . 
Believe it , many a good customer is lost for no other reason . 
In your operating room , dust should be carefully excluded . 
It should be furnished with nothing apt to collect and retain dust a carpet is therefore not only a useless article , but very improper . 
A bare floor is to be prefered but if you must cover it use matting . 
There is no place about your establishment where greater care should be taken to have order and cleanliness for it will prevent many failures often attributed to other causes . 
A place for every thing , and every thing in its place , should be an absolute maxim with all artists . 
In choosing your operating room , obtain one with a north western aspect , if possible and either with , or capable of having attached , a large skylight . 
Good pictures may be taken without the sky light , but not the most pleasing or effective . 
A very important point to be observed , is to keep the camera perfectly free from dust . 
The camera should be so placed as to prevent the sun shining into the lenses . 
In taking portraits , the conformation of the sitter should be minutely studied to enable you to place her or him in a position the most graceful and easy to be obtained . 
may be put over it , but quickly withdrawn when the process is about two thirds finished . 
The subject of these pictures may be applicable to the taste or occupation of the person whose portrait you are taking . 
This adds much to the interest of the picture , which is otherwise frequently dull , cold and inanimate . 
Mr. J. H. Whitehurst of Richmond , Va . 
, has introduced a revolving background , which is set in motion during the operation , and produces a distinctness and boldness in the image not otherwise to be obtained . 
The effect upon the background of the plate is equally pleasing it having the appearance of a beautifully clouded sky . 
The same brush should always be used for the same solution , and never used for any other , and always washed in clean water after having been employed . 
Any metalic mounting on the brushes should be avoided , as the metal precipitates the silver from its solution . 
, ensure a corresponding measure of success . 
The entire Daguerreotype process is comprised in seven distinct operations viz . 
Cleaning and polishing the plate . 
Submitting the plate to the action of light in the camera . 
Bringing out the picture in other words rendering it visible . 
Fixing the image , or making it perminent so that the light may no longer act upon it . 
Gilding or covering the picture with a thin film of gold which not only protects it , but greatly improves its distinctness and tone of color . 
For these various operations the following articles which make up the entire apparatus of a Daguerrean artist must be procured . 
The value of this instrument is now great , and the interest of the process which it so essentially aids , universally admitted . 
A full description of it will therefore be interesting . 
At this point , termed the focus , the sensitive photographic material is placed for the purpose of obtaining the required picture . 
The great disideratum in a photographic camera is perfect lenses . 
They should be achromatic , and the utmost hipho . 
These caps alway come with Voitlander instruments and should be secured by the purchaser . 
Though the single acromatic lens answers very well for copying engravings taking views from nature or art , for portraits the double should always be used . 
The extensive manufacture of the most approved cameras , both in Europe and in this country , obviates all necessity for any one attempting to construct one for their own use . 
The camera in most general use is that manufactured by Voitlander and Son of Germany . 
The larger size differs from the smaller . 
The inner lens is an achromatic inches diameter , its focal length being inches . 
The outer lens is a meniscus that is bounded by a concave and convex spherical surface which meet having a focal length of inches . 
For every distant view , the aperture in front is contracted by a diaphram to of an inch . 
By this means the light is reflected with considerable intensity and the clearness and correctness of the pictures are truly surprising . 
THE AMERICA instruments are constructed on the same principle and many of them are equally perfect . 
varies in size to suit the tube , and is termed medium , half , or whole . 
Within the box is a slide to assist in regulating the focus , and in enlarging or diminishing the picture . 
is slid , for the purpose of more conveniently arranging the focus . 
After the plate is prepared it is placed in the holder partly seen at e , fig . 
, and covered with the dark slide f , fig . 
the spectrum is then withdrawn and the holder takes its place , and the lids d , d , are closed after removing the dark slide f . 
The plate is now ready to receive the image , and the cap c may be removed to admit the light into the box . 
A camera constructed by Voitlander is thus described by Mr. Fisher . 
It is made entirely of brass , so that variations of climate has no effect upon it . 
It is very portable and when packed in its box , with all the necessary apparatus and materials for practising the Daguerreotype art , occupies but very little space . 
It is not , however , well adapted for the Calotype process . 
The landscape to be delineated is viewed either through the hipho . 
Mr. Woodbridge , of this city , has constructed an instrument for taking full length portraits on plates by inches , which is worthy of some notice . 
It is a double camera , consisting of two boxes , placed in a frame , one above the other , and so arranged as to slide easily up and down . 
The adjustment of the instrument is so complete that hipho . 
gif a perfect union of the parts is effected in the picture without the least possible line of demarkation being visible . 
gives a front view of this instrument . 
represents Talbot's Calotype Camera , a very beautiful instrument . 
The copying camera box has an extra slide in the back end , by which it may be considerably lengthened at pleasure . 
through which the sliding rod b passes , and into which the legs c , c , with iron screw ferules are inserted . 
The platform d is made of two pieces , hinged together , as at e , and having a thumb screw for the purpose of elevating or depressing the instrument . 
gives a front view of the mercury bath now in general use in this country for mercurializing and bringing out the picture . 
It is quite an improvement on those first used . 
Into the top are nicely fitted two or three iron frames , with shoulders , for the plate to rest in , suitable for the different sizes of plates . 
The bath is heated by means of a spirit lamp placed under it . 
From two to four ounces of highly purified mercury are put into the bath at a time . 
There are several kinds of this article in use I shall describe the two best only . 
gives an idea of the improvement on the English hand block . 
The top a is perfectly flat hipho . 
, shows the form of Lewis' newly patented plate vice , which for durability , simplicity and utility is preferable to all others . 
On this vice which is secured to a table , or bench , the plate receives its finishing polish with rouge , or prepared lampblack . 
Mr. Lewis gives the following directions for its use . 
to fall back into a horizontal position the plate being in its place at the time . 
Oil the wearing parts occasionally . 
Some Daguerreotypists , however , use a foot lathe with buff wheels of various forms but this vice is sufficient for all ordinary purposes . 
The usual form for iodine and hipho . 
gif bromine boxes is see , at figs . 
They are far superior to those in use with the English operators . 
having firmly embeded within it a stout glass jar , the edges of which are ground . 
beneath the cross bar g , and fits the pot so accurately that it effectually prevents the escape of the vapor of the iodine , bromine or other accelerating liquid contained therein . 
To test the tightness of the box , light a piece of paper , put it into the pot and cover it with the sliding lid . 
The burning paper expels the air from the pot , and if it be perfectly tight you may raise the whole box by the lid . 
Are a necessary article to the Daguerreotypist , for filtering water , solutions , c . 
For nervous persons the gilding stand is a useful article . 
It is adjusted to a perfect level by thumb screws placed in its base . 
Glass is the cheapest , and for an amateur will do very well , but for a professed artist the Britania should always be obtained . 
These are generally found on sale at the shops , and usually contain eight colors , four brushes and a gold cup . 
For the purpose of distilling water the apparatus represented at Fig . 
is both convenient and economical . 
It may be either wholly of good stout tin , or of sheet iron tinned on the inside , and may be used over a common fire , or on a stove . 
The distilled water is condensed in the worm and passes off at the cock b , under which a bottle , or other vessel , should be placed to receive it . 
, and to procure good pictures , its detection becomes a matter of importance . 
Mason's hygrometer , manufactured by Mr. Roach and sold by Mr. Anthony , Broadway , New York is the best in use . 
It consists of two thermometre tubes placed , side by side , on a metalic scale , which is graduated equally to both tubes . 
The bulb of one of these tubes communicates , by means of a net work of cotton , with a glass reservoir of water attached to the back of the scale . 
and represent a front and back view of this instrument . 
is the front view , showing the tubes with their respective scales the bulb b being covered with the network of cotton communicating with the reservoir c fig . 
The button head rest with chair back clip , A fig . 
gif For a Daguerreotypist permanently located the independent iron head rest , B fig . 
, is the most preferable , principally on account of its solidity . 
passing through the body of the tripod , to a height sufficient for a person , standing , to rest against . 
This article is used for the purpose of giving to imperfectly coated plates a thicker covering of silver . 
The form of battery now most universally employed for electrotype , and other galvanic purposes , is Smee's Fig . 
gif of a piece of platinized silver , A , on the top of which is fixed a beam of wood , B , to prevent contact with the silver . 
A binding screw C is soldered on to the silver plate to connect it with any desired object , by means of the copper wire , e . 
A plate of amalgamated zinc , D , varying with the fancy of the operator from one half to the entire width of the silver is placed on each side of the wood . 
This is set into a glass vessel , P , the extreme ends of the wood resting upon its edge on which the acid with which it is charged has no effect . 
The jar is charged with sulphurid acid , diluted in eight parts its bulk of water . 
A sheet of silver must be attached to the wire connected with the centre plate A of the battery , and placed in the silver solution prepared as directed below . 
To prepare the solution of silver . 
Dissolve one ounce of chloride of silver in a solution of two ounces of cyanide of potassium , previously dissolved in one quart of water . 
The oxide of silver may be used instead of the chloride . 
This solution is put into a tumbler , or other vessel . 
gif This battery with the necessary articles for using it may be obtained of E. Anthony , Broadway , New York city . 
The other articles required by every operator may be simply enumerated , viz Stickng , or sealing paper . 
A pair of pliers , or forceps . 
Porcelain pans or dishes , for applying the hyposulphite of soda and washing after the imagine is fixed , something in form like fig . 
A support for holding the plate while being washed , like fig . 
These are usually from one to three feet in length , and about three inches wide some think two and a half sufficient . 
The underside , which is convex , is covered with a strip of finely prepared buckskin , or velvet , well padded with cotton or tow . 
All the articles enumerated in this chapter may be obtained , of the very best quality and at the most reasonable rates , of Mr. E. Anthony , , Broadway , New York . 
The process of taking Daguerreotype pictures differs very materially from all others of the photographic art , inasmuch as the production of the image is effected upon plates of copper coated with silver . 
These qualities are possessed to an eminent degree by the French plates . 
TRIPOLI , CHLORIDE OF SILVER . 
CHLORIDE OF IODINE , their compounds , or other BROMINE accelerating mixtures . 
Cleaning and polishing the plate . 
Rottenstone , Tripoli , which is too often dispensed with . 
Rouge , or lampblack the first being most preferable . 
The English operators mix the two together . 
Prepared cotton Wool , or Canton flannel . 
If the first is used , it should be excluded from the dust , as it is not so easily cleansed as the latter . 
The plate is secured , with its silver side upward , to the block , by the means described on page having previously turned the edges backward all around . 
The amount of cleaning a plate requires , depends upon the state it is in . 
We will suppose one in the worst condition dirty , scratched , and full of mercury spots , all of which imperfections are more or less to be encountered . 
The mercury spots are to be removed by burning the plate . 
Even the back should not be neglected , but throughly cleansed from any dirt or greasy film it may have received from handling . 
When this is thoroughly accomplished , mix a portion of your tripoli with the dilute nitric acid , to the consistence of thick cream . 
Then take a pellet of cotton and well polish the plate with this mixture , in the same manner as with the rottenstone . 
Continue the process till , on removing the tripoli with a clean pellet , the plate exhibits a clear , smooth , bright surface , free from all spots , or scratches . 
The finishing polish is now to be given . 
For this purpose the rouge or a mixture of rouge and lamp black , in the proportion of one part of the former to seven of the latter is used . 
The apparatus and chemicals required , are an Iodine box see fig . 
Bromine box similar to the iodine box but a trifle deeper . 
Bromine , or a compound of Bromine and Chloride of Iodine , or other sensitive mixture . 
Most of our best operators use the compound Bromine and Chloride of Iodine . 
To iodize the plate perfectly it must be placed over the iodine vapor immediately after buffing . 
Scatter from a sixteenth to the eighth of an ounce of dry iodine over the bottom of your coating box , and slightly cover it with cotton wool . 
The plate is then dropped into the frame b , fig . 
, with its silvered surface downward , and thrust under the lid h . 
The bright surface of the plate is soon coated with a film of iodine of a fine yellow color it is then removed and placed over the accelerating solution . 
It is not absolutely necessary to perform this operation in the dark , although a bright light should be avoided . 
Not so the next part of the process , viz giving the plate its extreme sensitiveness , or coating with the accelerating liquids . 
In this great caution should be used to prevent the slightest ray of light impringing directly on the plate , and in examining the color reflected light should always be used . 
Most of our operators are not so particular in this respect as they should be . 
These are adopted by Daguerreotypists according to their tastes and predjudices . 
They are all applied in the same way as the coating of iodine . 
The following are the best . 
Bromine water This solution is much used in France , and , I shall therefore give its preparation , and the method of using it , in the words of M. Figeau . 
Put into a bottle of pure water , a large excess of bromine shake the mixture well , and before using it , let all the bromine be taken up . 
An ascertained quantity of this saturated water is then diluted in a given quantity of distilled water , which gives a solution of bromine that is always identical . 
M. Figeau recommends one part of the saturated solution to thirty parts its bulk of water but M. Lesebour finds it more manageable if diluted with forty times . 
In case pure distilled , or rain water cannot be procured , a few drops of nitric acid say six to the quart should be added to the common water . 
This is prepared by introducing chlorine gass into a glass vessel containing iodine the iodine is liquified , and the above named compound is the result . 
The compound is diluted with distilled water , and the plate submitted to its action till it is of a rose color . 
Chloride of iodine alone , is seldom if ever used now by American operators , as it does not sufficiently come up to their locomotive principle of progression . 
The next is also eschewed by the majority , although many of our best artists use no other , on account of the very fine tone it gives to pictures . 
This is a compound of bromine and chloride of iodine . 
In mixing it , much depends upon the strength of the ingredients an equal portion of each being generally used . 
Dilute six parts of this solution in sixteen of water . 
Coat over dry iodine to a deep yellow , then over the sensitive to a deep rose color approaching purple then back , over dry iodine from four to eight seconds . 
This is one of the very best sensitive solutions , and is very popular among Daguerreotypists . 
The effect in the camera is quick , and produces a picture of a fine white tone . 
This is another preparation of bromine , and gives a fine tone . 
Coat over dry iodine to a dark yellow , and over the quick till you see a good change , then back over the dry iodine from two to three seconds . 
Bromide of Lime , or Dry Sensitive . 
To prepare it , fill your jar about half or quarter full of dry slacked lime , then drop into it bromine , till it becomes a bright orange red . 
I merely mention this as being in the market , not knowing any thing in regard to its merits . 
So quick is its operation , that even persons or animals may be taken in the act of walking . 
It acts quickly and with considerable certainty . 
It is used by diluting it with from ten to fifteen times its bulk of water , putting a sufficient quantity into the jar to cover the bottom . 
The plate being previously iodized to a light yellow , is submitted to this mixture till it assumes a light rose tint . 
You then pass to the THIRD OPERATION . 
Submitting the Plate to the action of Light in the Camera . 
Care should also be taken in withdrawing the dark slide , in front of the plate , from the holder , as the same effect may be produced by a too hasty movement . 
The lens is the last thing to be uncovered , by withdrawing the cap c . 
, which should not be done until you have placed the sitter in the most desirable position . 
Daguerreotypists generally mark time by their watches , arriving at the nearest possible period for producing a good picture by making several trials . 
This instrument is attached , in a conspicuous place , to the wall . 
to the camera tube , at an angle of forty five degrees . 
If , after taking the plate from the camera , it be examined , no picture will yet be visible , but this is brought about by the FOURTH PROCESS . 
Bringing out the Picture , or rendering it Visible . 
We now come to the use of the mercury bath , Fig . 
To the bath a thermometer is attached , to indicate the proper degree of beat required , which should never be raised above deg . 
over the mercury , face downwards , and examined from time to time , by simply raising it with the fingers , or a pair of plyers . 
This operation , as well as the others , should take place in the dark closet . 
gif Sometimes , to prevent the necessity of raising the plate , an additional cover or top is made use of . 
through which to view the progress of mercurialization , and an additional piece on one side , colored yellow , to admit the light . 
The outline only of the top is here given , in order to show every portion of it at one view . 
The picture , being fully developed , is now taken out and examined it must not , however , be exposed to too strong a light . 
Fixing the Image so that the light can no longer act upon it . 
The following articles are required for this purpose Two or three porcelain or glass dishes , in form , something like fig . 
A plate support , fig . 
Few , I believe , now make use of this , although it is a very convenient article . 
Hyposulphite of Soda , A pair of Plyers . 
In Europe , they also use a drying apparatus , Fig . 
, but this , like the plate support , hipho . 
gif is a matter of little consequence , and may be dispensed with . 
I will , however , describe it , for the benefit of those who may wish to use it . 
It must be kept perfectly clean . 
Hot distilled water is poured into it , and the temperature kept up by a spirit lamp . 
, and the water poured over it . 
It is then washed in a similar manner with the distilled water and well examined , to see that not the slightest particle of dust rests on the suface . 
The next step is to dry it . 
This may be readily accomplished by holding the plate with your plyers , and pouring distilled water over it if it is hot , so much the better . 
The last drop may now be removed by a little bibulous paper . 
A single drop , even , of distilled water allowed to dry on any part of the surface , is certain to leave a stain which no after process can remove . 
and Chloride of Gold or Hyposulphite of Gold . 
The latter is imported by Mr. E. Anthony , Broadway , New York , and is decidedly the best article for the purpose . 
One bottle simply dissolved in a quart of water will make a very strong solution , and gives a richness to the picture impossible to be obtained from the chloride of gold . 
The process is precisely similar to that described below for chloride of gold , taking care to cease the moment the bubbles are well defined over the surface of the plate . 
The Solution of Chloride of Gold is prepared by dissolving in a pint of distilled water , fifteen grains of chrystalized chloride of gold . 
This solution will be of a yellow tint . 
Wet the surface with alcohol , letting any superfluous quantity drain off . 
The alcohol is of no farther use than to facilitate the flowing of the gold mixture over the surface . 
Now pour on , carefully , as much of the preparation of gold as will remain on the plate . 
The day may come when accurate coloring may be obtained in the camera . 
For this purpose I have prepared a short chapter on the art of coloring , which may be found in the latter part of this volume . 
To Preserve Daguerreotypes they must be well sealed and secured in a case , or frame . 
These , of course , are selected according to the taste of the customer , the principal requisite being good glass . 
Before enclosing the picture in the case you should be careful to wipe the glass perfectly clean , and blow from the picture any particles of dust which may have fallen upon it . 
Dissolve one ounce of gum arabic , and a quarter of an ounce of gum tragicanth in a pint of water then add a teaspoonful of benzoin . 
If it becomes too soft for summer use , add gum arabic if too hard and cracking , add benzoin or gum tragicanth if it gets too thick , add water . 
This gives a sensitive coating to the surface of the plate , which may then be submitted to the action of light in the camera . 
After remaining a sufficient time in the camera , the plate is taken out and exposed to the vapor of sulphuretted hydrogen . 
This vapor produces various colors on the plate , according to the intensity with which the light has acted on the different parts consequently a colored photographic picture is obtained . 
No further process is necessary as exposure to light does not effect the picture . 
By this process we have an advantage over the silvered plate , both in economy , and in the production of the picture in colors . 
INSTANTANTANEOUS PICTURES BY MEANS OF GALVANISM . 
Colonel Whitney informs me that he once took a view of the steeple of the St . 
Mr. Whitney is well known as the talented editor of the Sunday Morning news . 
New York , January , . 
In the year , while practicing the art in St . 
, I was at times , during the summer , much troubled with the electric influence of the atmosphere , especially on the approach of a thunder storm . 
This satisfied me that electricity was in some measure an important agent in the chemical process , and it occurred to me that the element might be turned to advantage . 
I determined , therefore , to enter on a series of experiments to test my theory . 
Finding it impossible to obtain an electric machine , and unwilling to abandon the examination , it occurred to me , that the galvanic influence might answer the same purpose . 
I therefore proceeded to make a galvanic battery in the following simple manner . 
I obtained a piece of zinc about two inches long , one inch wide , and an eighth of an inch thick . 
On this I soldered a narrow strip of copper , about six inches long , the soldered end laid on one side of the zinc , and extending its whole length . 
The battery was completed by placing the zinc in a glass tumbler , two thirds full of dilute sulphuric acid , strong enough to produce a free action of the metals . 
The upper end of the copper slip extending above the tumbler was sharpened to a point , and bent a little over the glass . 
If the plate is exposed more than an instant after the contact the picture will generally be found solarized . 
By this process I have taken pictures of persons in the act of walking , and in taking the pictures of infants and young children I found it very useful . 
Very respectfully yours , THOMAS R. WHITNEY . 
Mr. Hunt describes a process , discovered by himself by which the Daguerrean art may be applied to paper . 
Being dry , it is again washed over with the same solution , and dried as before . 
A solution of nitrate of silver one hundred grains to an ounce of distilled water is to be applied over the same surface , and the paper quickly dried in the dark . 
In this state the papers may be kept for use . 
After a few seconds the light must be again shut off , and the camera removed into a dark room . 
The necessity of removing the camera is now avoided by the use of the dark slide , already described , covering the picture in the holder , which alone may be removed . 
It will be found by taking the paper from the holder , that there is but a very faint outline if any yet visible . 
Place it aside , in perfect darkness until quite dry then place it in the mercurial vapor box and apply a very gentle heat to the bottom . 
The moment the mercury vaporizes , the picture will begin to develope itself . 
The vaporization must then be suddenly stopped , and the photograph removed from the box . 
many of which may be taken from one original . 
The action of light on this preparation , does indeed appear to be instantaneous . 
This very beautiful process is not without its difficulties and the author cannot promise that , even with the closest attention to the above directions , annoying failures will not occur . 
I have stated that the paper should be placed wet in the camera the same paper may be used dry , which often is a great convenience . 
When in the dry state a little longer exposure is required and instead of taking a picture in four or five seconds , two or three minutes are necessary . 
The durability of daguerreotypes has been , and is still , doubted by many , but experiment has proved that they are more permanent than oil paintings or engravings . 
There are several methods of accomplishing this object discovered and applied by different individuals . 
The first process was published at Vienna by Dr . 
Berres , and consisted in covering the plate with the mucilage of gum arabic , and then immersing the plate in nitric acid of different strengths . 
Bi chloride of copper answers the purpose also , but less completely . 
This coat of chloride of silver is removed by a solution of ammonia , and then the acid applied again , and so on , until the depth of biting in is sufficient . 
The oil is thus left in the sinkings , or dark bitten in parts only . 
The whole plate is now placed in a suitable apparatus , and the lights or prominent parts of the face are gilt by the electrotype process . 
The resin grain gives a surface to the corroded parts suitable for holding the ink , and the plate is now finished and fit to give impressions resembling aquatint . 
In this portion of my work I am entirely indebted to the works of Professors Hunt , Fisher and others . 
Paper sometimes contains minute portions of thread , black or brown specks , and other imperfections , all of which materially interfere with the process . 
this defect only exists , however , in the cheaper sorts of demy , and therefore can be easily avoided . 
In all cases such paper should be rejected , as no really sensitive material can be obtained with it . 
Well sized paper is by no means objectionable , indeed , is rather to be preferred , since the size tends to exalt the sensitive powers of the silver . 
The principal thing to be avoided , is the absorption of the sensitive solution into the pores and it must be evident that this desideratum cannot be obtained by unsized paper . 
Taking all things into consideration , the paper known as satin post would appear to be preferable , although the precautions already recommended should be taken in its selection . 
The necessary solutions are to be laid upon the paper by brushes . 
At all events , the brush is the most ready and the most effectual means . 
All the water used , both for mixing the solutions , washing the paper , or cleaning the brushes , must be distilled , to obtain good results , for reasons before specified . 
In many instances , the prepared paper requires to be lightly dried with bibulous paper . 
The best description is the white sort . 
In each stage of the preparation distinct portions of bibulous paper must be used . 
A very convenient method is to have two or three quarto size books of bibulous paper , one for each seperate process . 
In the practice of the photographic art , much depends on the nitrate of silver . 
Care should be taken to procure the best the crystalized salt is most suitable for the purpose . 
DIFFERENT METHODS OF PREPARING THE PAPER . 
Dip the paper to be prepared into a weak solution of common salt . 
The solution should not be saturated , but six or eight times diluted with water . 
When perfectly moistened , wipe it dry with a towel , or press it between bibulous paper , by which operation the salt is uniformly dispersed through its substance . 
Then brush over it , on one side only , a solution of nitrate of silver . 
The strength of this solution must vary according to the color and sensitiveness required . 
Mr. Talbot recommends about fifty grains of the salt to an ounce of distilled water . 
Some advise twenty grains only , while others say eighty grains to the ounce . 
When dried in a dark room , the paper is fit for use . 
To render this paper still more sensitive , it must again be washed with salt and water , and afterwards with the same solution of nitrate of silver , drying it between times . 
This paper , if carefully made , is very useful for all ordinary photographic purposes . 
In conducting this operation , however , it will be found that the results are sometimes more and sometimes less satisfactory , in consequence of small and accidental variations in the proportions employed . 
It happens sometimes that the chloride of silver formed on the surface of the paper is disposed to blacken of itself , without any exposure to light . 
This shows that the attempt to give it sensibility has been carried too far . 
This paper possesses a great advantage over any other , for the image can be fixed by mere washing . 
ether , which has been kept sufficiently long to become acid the paper is then carefully and completely dried , as this is essential to its proper preparation . 
It is then dipped into a solution of nitrate of silver , and dried without artificial heat in a room from which every ray of light is carefully excluded . 
By this process it acquires a very remarkable facility in being blackened on a very slight exposure to light , even when the latter is by no means intense . 
The paper , however , rapidly loses its extreme sensitiveness to light , and finally becomes no more impressionable by the solar beams than common nitrate paper . 
The paper should then be dried in a dark room , and , if required to be very sensitive , should a second time be brushed over with the nitrate of silver solution . 
In preparing the papers mentioned above , there are two circumstances which require particular attention . 
In the first place , it is necessary to mark the paper on the side spread with the solutions of nitrate of silver , near one of the extreme corners . 
and the subsequent drying of the paper , must be always conducted in a perfectly dark room , the light of a candle alone being used . 
The simplest mode is to procure a flat board and a square of glass , larger in size than the object intended to be copied . 
On the board place the photographic paper hipho . 
Should the object to be copied be of unequal thickness , such as a leaf , grass , c . 
, it will be necessary to place on the board , first , a soft cushion , which may be made of a piece of fine flannel and cotton wool . 
By this means the object is brought into closer contact with the paper , which is of great consequence , and adds materially to the clearness of the copy . 
It must then be removed , as no advantage will be obtained by keeping it longer exposed on the contrary , the delicate parts yet uncolored will become in some degree affected . 
The photogenic paper will now show a more or less white and distinct representation of the object . 
, which is removed when the paper is ready to be exposed to the action of the light . 
, the whole is brought into close contact with the glass . 
paintings on glass , etchings , c . 
Mr. Talbot recommends that the drawings should be dipped in salt and water , and in many instances this method will succeed , but at times it is equally unsuccessful . 
But the most certain material to be used is the hyposulphite of soda . 
One ounce of this salt should be dissolved in about a pint of distilled water . 
By this operation the muriate which lies upon the lighter parts will become so altered in its nature as to be unchanged by light , while the rest remains dark as before . 
It will be evident from the nature of the process , that the lights and shadows of an object are reversed . 
Before we do this , however , we must render our photograph transparent , otherwise the opacity of the paper will mar our efforts . 
To accomplish this object , the back of the paper containing the negative , or first acquired photograph , should be covered with white or virgin wax . 
This may be done by scraping the wax upon the paper , and then , after placing it between two other pieces of paper , passing a heated iron over it . 
The light will now penetrate the white parts , and the second photograph be the reverse of the first , or a true picture of the original . 
Instead of wax , boiled linseed oil it must be the best and most transparent kind may be used . 
The back of the negative photograph should be smeared with the oil , and then placed between sheets of bibulous paper . 
When dry the paper is highly transparent . 
Of course every line will be represented beneath of a black color , and thus an imitation etching will be produced . 
It is also applicable to the delineation of microscopic objects , architecture , seulpture , landscapes and external nature . 
A novel application of this art has been recently suggested , which would doubtless prove useful in very many instances . 
By rendering the wood used for engravings sensitive to light , impressions may be at once made thereon , without the aid of the artist's pencil . 
Should it be required more sensitive , it must be immersed in each solution a second time , for a few seconds only . 
It will now be very soon effected by a very diffused light . 
The materials and apparatus necessary for the Calotype process are Two or Three Shallow Dishes , for holding distilled water , iodide , potassium , c . 
the same water never being used for two different operations . 
Paper , of the very best quality directions for the choice of which have been already given . 
A Screen of Yellow Glass . 
Camels' or Badgers' hair Brushes A seperate one being kept for each wash and solution , and which should be thoroughly cleansed immediately after using in distilled water . 
That used for the gallo nitrate is soon destroyed , owing to the rapid decomposition of that preparation . 
Three or Four Flat Boards , to which the paper may be fixed with drawing pins . 
A Hot Water Drying Apparatus , for drying the paper will also be found useful . 
This may be effected by using a shade of yellow glass or gauze , which must be placed around the light . 
Light passing through such a medium will scarcely affect the sensitive compounds , the yellow glass intercepting the chemical rays . 
Preparation of the Iodized Paper . 
When nearly dry dip it into a solution of iodide of potassium , containing five hundred grains of that salt dissolved in a pint of water . 
When perfectly saturated with this solution , it should be washed in distilled water , drained and allowed to dry . 
This is the first part of the process , and the paper so prepared is called iodized paper . 
It should be kept in a port folio or drawer until required with this care it may be preserved for any length of time without spoiling or undergoing any change . 
This is the first process . 
Preparation of the paper for the Camera . 
This solution should be kept in a bottle carefully excluded from the light . 
Now , make a solution of gallic acid in cold distilled water the quantity dissolved is very small . 
It is also well not to make much of the gallic acid solution , as it will not keep for more than a few days without spoiling . 
A sheet of the iodized paper should be washed over with a brush with this mixed solution , care being taken that it be applied to the marked side . 
This operation must be performed by candle light . 
It is better not to touch the surface with bibulous paper . 
It is now highly sensitive , and ready to receive the impression . 
In practice it is found better and more economical not to mix the nitrate of silver and gallic acid , but only to brush the paper with the solution of the nitrate . 
Mr. Talbot has recently proposed some modifications in his method of preparing the calotype paper . 
The paper is first iodized in the usual way it is then washed over with a saturated solution of gallic acid in distilled water and dried . 
Thus prepared he calls it the io gallic paper it will remain good for a considerable time if kept in a press or portfolio . 
, and it is then fit for the camera . 
The paper may be used somewhat damp . 
The impression is latent and invisible , and its existence would not be suspected by any one not acquainted with the process by previous experiment . 
The method of bringing out the image is very simple . 
Even a weak impression may be brought out by again washing the paper in the gallo nitrate , and once more gently warming it . 
Here again the mixed solution need not be used , but the picture simply brushed over with the gallic acid . 
The picture is again washed with distilled water , and then finally dried . 
Instead of bromide of potassium , a solution of hyposulphite of soda , as before directed , may be used with equal advantage . 
But it is easy from this picture to obtain another which shall be conformable to nature viz . 
, in which the lights shall be represented by lights , and the shades by shades . 
, and place it in contact with a calotype picture previously rendered transparent by wax or oil as before directed . 
Fix it in the frame , Fig . 
, expose it in the sunshine for a short time , and an image or copy will be formed on the photogenic paper . 
After a calotype picture has furnished a number of copies it sometimes grows faint , and the subsequent copies are inferior . 
This may be prevented by means of a process which revives the strength of the calotype pictures . 
In order to do this , it is only nesessary to wash them by candlelight with gallo nitrate of silver , and then warm them . 
This causes all the shades of the picture to darken considerably , while the white parts are unaffected . 
After this the picture is of course to be fixed a second time . 
It will then yield a second series of copies , and , in this way , a great number may frequently be made . 
The calotype pictures when prepared as we have stated , possess a yellowish tint , which impedes the process of taking copies from them . 
In order to remedy this defect , Mr. Talbot has devised the following method . 
The calotype picture is plunged into a solution consisting of hyposulphite of soda dissolved in about ten times its weight of water , and heated nearly to the boiling point . 
The picture should remain in about ten minutes it must then be removed , washed and dried . 
By this process the picture is rendered more transparent , and its lights become whiter . 
It is also rendered exceedingly permanent . 
After this process the picture may be waxed , and thus its transparency increased . 
This process is applicable to all photographic papers prepared with solutions of silver . 
The paper should he dipped in the solution and instantly removed . 
There is another point , too , in the preparation of the iodized paper in which suggestions for a slight deviation from Mr. Talbot's plan have been made . 
The paper , having been brushed over with the iodide of potassium in solution , is washed in distilled water and dried . 
After this it is again washed and dried . 
The advantage derived from this method , is a more sensitive paper , and a more even distribution of the compounds over the surface . 
Another deviation from Mr. Talbot's method has been suggested , as follows Brush the paper over with a solution of one hundred grains of nitrate of silver to an ounce of water . 
Dry it with bibulous paper , and it is ready for receiving the image . 
The image will thus be gradually brought out , and may be fixed with hyposulphite of soda . 
might be bleached by using a solvent which would not attack the silver in the dark , but would do so in the light . 
When required for use it is drawn over dilute nitric acid one part acid to two and a half parts water . 
In this state , those parts exposed to the light are rapidly bleached , while the parts not exposed remain unchanged . 
It is fixed by washing in water , and subsequently in hyposulphite of soda , or bromide of potassium . 
Mr. Grove also describes a process for converting a negative calotype into a positive one , which promises , when carried out , to be of great utility . 
For the benefit of the curious , however , I will give Mr. Talbot's method . 
Some pages of letter press are taken printed on one side only and waxed , to render them more transparent the letters are then cut out and sorted . 
To compose a new page lines are ruled on a sheet of white paper , and the words are formed by fixing the seperate letters in their proper order . 
The page being ready , a negative photograph is produced from it , from which the requisite number of positive photogenic copies may be obtained . 
Another method , which requires the use of the camera , consists in employing large letters painted on rectangular pieces of wood , colored white . 
These are arranged in lines on a tablet or board , by slipping them into grooves which keep them steady and upright , thus forming a page on an enlarged scale . 
It is now placed before a camera , and a reduced image of it of the required size is thrown upon the sensitive paper . 
The adjustments must be kept invariable , so that the consecutive pages may not vary from one another in the size of the type . 
Mr. Talbot has patented his process , but what benefit he expects to derive from it , I am at a loss to determine . 
Enlarged copies of calotype or Daguerreotype portraits may be obtained by throwing magnified images of them , by means of lenses , upon calotype paper . 
This modification would appear to unite the simplicity of photography with all the distintness and clearness of calotype . 
This preparation is as follows . 
The paper is to be washed in a solution of ammonio citrate of iron it must then be dried , and subsequently brushed over with a solution of the ferro sesquicyanuret of potassium . 
Such was the first declaration of his discovery , but he has since found that a neutral solution of silver is equally useful in bringing out the picture . 
Photographic pictures taken on this paper are distinguished by a clearness of outline foreign to all other methods . 
X. CYANOTYPE ENERGIATYPE CHROMATYPE ANTHOTYPE AMPHITYPE AND CRAYON DAGUERREOTYPE . 
The several processes enumerated at the head of this chapter , are all discoveries of English philosophers , with the exception of the third and last named . 
Anthotype was first attempted by M. Ponton a French savan , although it was reserved to Mr. Hunt to bring the process to its present state . 
The Crayon Daguerreotype is an improvement made by J. A Whipple , Esq . 
, of Boston I. CYANOTYPE So called from the circumstance of cyanogen in its combinations with iron performing a leading part in the process . 
It was discovered by Sir John Herschel . 
The process is a simple one , and the resulting pictures are blue . 
Brush the paper over with a solution of the ammonio citrate of iron . 
This solution should be sufficiently strong to resemble sherry wine in color . 
Expose the paper in the usual way , and pass over it very sparingly and evenly a wash of the common yellow ferro cyanate of potass . 
A curious process was discovered by Sir John Herschel , by which dormant pictures are produced capable of developement by the breath , or by keeping in a moist atmosphere . 
If nitrate of silver , specific gravity . 
be added to ferro tartaric acid , specific gravity . 
When the total quantity of the nitrated solution added amounts to about half the bulk of the ferro tartaric acid , it is enough . 
The liquid so prepared does not alter if kept in the dark . 
it possesses the singular property of receiving a dormant or invisible picture , to produce which from thirty to sixty seconds' exposure to sunshine is requisite . 
Under this title a process has been brought forward by Mr. Hunt . 
It consists of the application of a solution of succinic acid to paper , which is subsequently washed over with nitrate of silver . 
The image is then to be taken either in the camera or otherwise , as required , and is brought out by the application of the sulphate of iron in solution . 
Although this process has not come into general use , its exact description may be interesting to the general reader , and we therefore subjoin it . 
It is now ready for exposure in the camera . 
Subsequently , however , it has been found that the sulphate of iron produces upon all the salts of silver effects quite as beautiful as in the succinate . 
On the iodide , bromide , acetate , and benzoate , the effects are far more pleasing and striking . 
When pictures are produced , or the dormant camera image brought out , by the agency of sulphate of iron , it is remarkable how rapidly the effect takes place . 
Engravings can be thus copied almost instantaneously , and camera views obtained in one or two minutes on almost any preparation of silver . 
The common sulphate of copper solution has the same property . 
Many efforts have been made to render chromatic acid an active agent in the production of photographs . 
M. Ponton used a paper saturated with bichromate of potash , and this was one of the earliest photogenic processes . 
But by neither of these processes could clear and distinct pictures be formed . 
Paper thus prepared may be kept any length of time , in a portfolio , and are always ready for use . 
When exposed to the sunshine for a time , varying with the intensity of the light , from five to fifteen or twenty minutes , the result is generally a negative picture . 
This picture must be quickly fixed , by being washed in pure water , and dried . 
It is necessary that pure water should be used for the fixing , as the presence of any muriate damages the picture , and here arises another pleasing variation of the Chromatype . 
If the positive picture be placed in a very weak solution of common salt the image slowly fades out , leaving a faint negative outline . 
If it now be removed from the saline solution , dried , and again exposed to sunshine , a positive picture of a lilac color will be produced by a few minutes exposure . 
Several other of the chromates may be used in this process , but none is so successful as the chromate of copper . 
The expressed juice , alcholic , or watery infusion of flowers , or vegetable substances , may be made the media of photogenic action . 
This fact was first discovered by Sir John Herschel . 
We have already given a few examples of this in the third chapter . 
Certain precautions are necessary in extracting the coloring matter of flowers . 
It is then to be spread upon paper with a flat brush , and dried in the air without artificial heat . 
If alcohol be not added , the application on paper must be performed immediately , as the air , irrecoverably changes or destroys their color . 
If alcohol be present this change is much retarded , and in some cases is entirely prevented . 
Most flowers give out their coloring matter to alcohol or water . 
Some , however , refuse to do so , and require the addition of alkalies , others of acid , c . 
Papers tinged with vetegable colors must always be kept in the dark , and perfectly dry . 
The color of a flower is by no means always , or usually , that which its expressed juice imparts to white paper . 
To secure an eveness of tint on paper , the following manipulation is recommended The paper should be moistened on the back by sponging and blotting off . 
shall project a little beyond those of the board . 
When all is wet , cross them by another set of strokes from above downwards , so managing the brush as to leave no floating liquid on the paper . 
It must then be dried as quickly as possible over a stove , or in a warm current of air , avoiding , however , such heat as may injure the tint . 
In addition to the flowers already mentioned in my third chapter , the following are among those experimented upon and found to give tolerable good photographic sensitives . 
The leaves of the laurel , common cabbage , and the grasses , are found sufficiently senstive . 
For instance , yellows tending towards orange are destroyed with more energy by the blue rays blues by the red , orange and yellow rays purples and pinks by yellow and green rays . 
This process is a discovery of Sir John Herschel and receives its name from the fact that both negative and positive photographs can be produced by one process . 
The positive pictures obtained by it have a perfect resemblance to impressions of engravings with common printer's ink . 
The process , although not yet fully carried out , promises to be of vast utility . 
I purposely avoid stating proportions , as I have not yet been able to fix upon any which certainly succeed . 
This extreme richness of effect is not produced unless lead be present , either in the ingredients used , or in the paper itself . 
It is not , as I originally supposed , due to the presence of free tartaric acid . 
The pictures in this state are not permanent . 
in a few days , while others remain for weeks unimpaired , and require whole years for their total obliteration . 
is often required for this , but heat accelerates the action , and it is often completed in a few hours . 
In this state the picture is to be very thoroughly rinsed and soaked in pure warm water , and then dried . 
If then the process have been successful , a perfectly black positive picture is at once developed . 
The intensity of the original negative picture is no criterion of what may be expected in the positive . 
by acetate of lead , and decomposing the precipitate by dilute sulphuric acid . 
When lead is used in the preparation of Amphitype paper , the parts upon which the light has acted are found to be in a very high degree rendered water proof . 
This process is a new invention of our countryman , J. A. Whipple , Esq . 
, of Boston , and has been patented by M. A. Root , Esq . 
Of this improvement Mr. Root says VI . 
The improvement to which you refer is denominated The Crayon Daguerreotype . 
This invention made by Mr. J. A. Whipple , is the only improvement in Daguerreotyping , I believe , for which Letters Patent for the United States were ever issued . 
The pictures produced by this process which is of the simplest description imaginable have the appearance and effect of very fine Crayon Drawings , from which the improvement takes its name . 
Some of our most distinguished artists have given it their unqualified admiration . 
Among them , our Mezzotinto Engravers , especially John Sartain , Esq . 
The late hour at which this subject has been brought to our notice prevents so full a description as we would otherwise have been glad to furnish . 
The New England States have been disposed of negotiations for any of the others can be made through M. A. Root , Chestnut street , Philadelphia . 
We are especially gratified with this striking improvement , from the advantages which it promises to the Daguerrean art . 
Yours respectfully , M. A. ROOT . 
ON THE PROBABILITY OF PRODUCING COLORED PICTURES BY THE SOLAR RADIATIONS PHOTOGRAPHIC DEVIATIONS LUNAR PICTURES DRUMMOND LIGHT . 
It is true that three years have passed away , and we have not yet produced colored images yet I am not inclined to consider the hope as entirely illusive . 
It must be remembered that the color of bodies depends entirely upon the arrangement of their molecules . 
We have numerous very beautiful experiments in proof of this . 
The bi niodide of mercury is a fine scarlet when precipitated . 
This very curious optical phenomena has been investigated by Mr. Talbot and by Mr. Warrington . 
Perfectly dry sulphate of copper is white the slightest moisture turns it blue . 
Muriate of cobalt is of a pale pink color a very slight heat , by removing a little moisture , changes it to a green . 
These are a few instances selected from many which might be given . 
Some instances have been given in which the rays impressed correspond with the colors of the luminous rays in a very remarkable manner . 
One of the most decided cases is that of the paper prepared with the fluoride of soda and nitrate of silver . 
Sir John Herschel was , however , the first to obtain any good specimens of photographically impressed prismatic colorations . 
See Mr. Hunt's Researches on Light . 
In , I had shown me a picture of a house in the Bowery , which had been repaired a few days previous , and in the wall a red brick left . 
This brick was brought out on the Daguerreotype plate of precisely the same color as the brick itself . 
The same artist also exhibited to me , the full length portrait of a gentleman who were a pair of pantaloons having a blue striped figure . 
This blue stripe was fully brought out , of the same color , in the picture . 
The above paper washed with a solution of salt of iodine , is very sensitive to light , and gives a beautiful picture . 
A picture thus taken was placed beneath the above glasses , and another beneath four flat bottles containing colored fluids . 
Many other experiments of a similar nature have been tried since that time with like results . 
The camera embraced a picture of a clear blue sky , stucco fronted houses , and a green field . 
The sky was of a crimson hue , the houses of a slaty blue , and the green fields of a brick red tint . 
Before taking leave of the subject of photogenic drawing , I must mention one or two facts , which may be of essential service to operators . 
This may depend upon an absorptive power of the air , which may reasonably be supposed to be more charged with vapor two hours before noon . 
The fuse of the hygrometer may possibly establish the truth or falsity of this supposition . 
On the other hand , if the supposition above mentioned prove true , a too early sitting must be avoided . 
It is found , however , that a much longer time is required . 
Draper has observed a similar difference between the chemical action of light in New York and Virginia . 
I would here take occasion to remark that our country man , Dr . 
Draper , is very frequently quoted by Mr , Huut in his Researches . 
The Roman Astronomers state that they have procured Daguerreotype impressions of the Nebula of the sword of Orion . 
Experiments have , however , proved that no heating power exists in the moon's rays , and that lunar light will not act chemically upon the iduret of silver . 
I throw out the hint in hopes some one will make the experiment . 
This may , probably , be remedied by interposing a screen of very thin tissue paper tinged slightly of a bluish color . 
In a majority of cases , the following will be found sufficient , viz . 
Chrome Yellow , Gamboge , Yellow Ochre or all three . 
Gamboge is best for drapery Ochre for the face . 
Bistre , or Burnt Umber . 
Purple This is made with Prussian blue , or indigo and red . 
Carmine and Prussian blue producing the richest color , which may be deepened in the shadows by a slight addition of indigo or brown . 
These combinations , under different modifications , give almost endless varieties of green . 
Brown May be made of different shades of umber , carmine and lamp black . 
Neutral tint Is composed of indigo and lamp black . 
Crimson Mix carmine and white , deepening the shaded parts of the picture with additional carmine . 
Lead Color Mix indigo and white in proportions to suit . 
Scarlet Carmine and light red . 
For Jewelry cups of gold and silver preparations accompany each box for Daguerreotypists , or may be procured separately . 
The method of laying colors on Daguerreotypes is one of considerable difficulty , inasmuch as they are used in the form of perfectly dry impalpable powder . 
The author of this little work is now experimenting , in order , if possible , to discover some more easy , artistic and unexceptionable method . 
If successful , the result will be published in a future edition . 
IN COLORING DAGUERREOTYPES , the principal shades of the head are to be made with bistre , mixed with burnt sienna , touching some places with a mixture of carmine and indigo . 
A slight touch of blue ultramarine would be best if it would adhere to the Daguerreotype plate in the whites of the eye near the iris , will produce a good effect . 
In coloring the heads of men it will be necessary to use the darker tints with more freedom , according to the complexion of the sitter . 
This may be obviated in some measure by proper coloring . 
The roots of the hair at the forehead should also be touched with blue , and the eyebrows near the temples made of a pinkish tint . 
The chin of a woman is nearly of the same color as the cheeks in the most glowing parts . 
In men it is stronger , and of a bluish tint , in order to produce the effect given by the beard . 
, to which add , on the shaded sides , ochre , bistre and purple , the latter in the darker parts . 
The tints of the hands should be the same as the other parts of the flesh , the ends of the fingers being a little pinkish and the nails of a violet hue . 
If any portion of the fleshy parts is shaded by portions of the dress , or by the position of the hand , this shade should be colored with umber mixed with purple . 
Violet Velvet Use purple made of Prussian blue and carmine , touching up the shaded parts with indigo blue . 
Green Velvet Mix Prussian blue and red orpiment , shade with purple , and touch up the lights with a little white . 
Red Velvet Mix a very little brown with carmine , shading with purple , marking the lights in the strongest parts with pure carmine , and touch the most brilliant slightly with white . 
White Feathers May be improved by delicately touching the shaded parts with a little blue mixed with white . 
White muslin , linen , lace , satin , silk , etc . 
, may also be colored in the same way , being careful not to lay the color on too heavily . 
FURS Red Furs may be imitated by using light red and a little masticot , shaded with umber . 
Gray Furs black and white mixed and shaded with bistre . 
Sable white shaded lightly with yellow ochre . 
These few directions are quite sufficient for the art , and it is quite unnecessary for me to pursue the subject further . 
In coloring Daguerreotypes , artists will find the magnifying glass of much advantage in detecting any imperfections in the plate or in the image , which may be remedied by the brush . 
In selecting brushes choose those most susceptible of a fine point , which may be escertained by wetting them between the lips , or in a glass of water . 
Several plans more or less successful , have been devised by Sir John Herschel , Messrs . 
Jordan , Shaw and Hunt . 
With the photographometer of Mr. Claudet this is easily ascertained . 
The following woodcuts and concise description will sufficiently indicate this useful and simple apparatus . 
gif For an instrument of this kind it is important in the first place to have a motion always uniform , without complicated or expensive mechanism . 
This is obtained by means founded upon the principle of the fall of bodies sliding down an inclined plane . 
having openings of different length , which follow a geometric progression . 
Each opening of this moveable plate allows the light to pass during the same space of time , and the effect upon the sensitive surface indicates exactly the intensity of the chemical rays . 
furnished with a screw , E , by which it may be fixed at any angle . 
The same result may be obtained by modifying the height of the fall or the weight of the moveable plate . 
The photogenic surface , whether hipho . 
The part of the apparatus which contains the sensitive surface is an independent frame , and it slides from a dark box into an opening on the side of the inclined plane . 
This cloth prevents the light striking the sensitive surface before and after the passage of the moveable plate . 
By this instrument Mr. Claudet has already determined many very important points . 
Among others , he has proved that on the most sensitive Daguerreotype plate an exposure of . 
part of a second is sufficient to produce a decided effect . 
The beautiful productions of the more prominent members of this club excited the admiration of all , particularly the copies of architectural beauties , and small bits of landscape , by Messrs . 
We think that now the artist sees the advantage he may derive from the aid of science , that both will gain by the union . 
Calotype Photogenic Application of Photogenic Drawing . 
Chloride of Roach's Tripple Compound of water . 
Exposure in Camera of Pictures . 
to make a solution of of Iodine . 
Cleaning and Polishing the plate . 
iii Definitions of terms used in optics , Different methods of preparing photogenic paper . 
Directions for use of Galvanic Battery . 
Effects of light on bodies Energiatype Etching Daguerreotypes . 
Cleaning the plate Fluoric acid . 
Fourth operation Bringing out the picture . 
Solution for use of Gilding stand . 
Chloride of To make solution of Hyposulphite or Salt of Preparation of . 
Instantaneous pictures by means of Galvanism . 
i Iodine , Dry Chloride of Bromide of Box . 
To Iodized Paper for Calotypes . 
To prepare To prepare for the Camera ib . 
Theory on Motion of Reflection of Refraction of on bodies . 
Effects of Prismatic analysis of Lime , Bromide of Lunar Pictures . 
Mercury Bath Nitrate of Silver . 
On coloring Daguerreotypes On the probability of Producing colored Photographs . 
blotting or bibulous , Daguerreotypes . 
preparation of suitable for Photographs . 
Photogenic drawing on ib Photographic principle , the Photographic process on paper . 
Application of To fix the deviations . 
Photographometer , The Plate Support . 
Poppy , The Red Porcelain dishes . 
v Preparation of Iodized Paper . 
Roach's Tripple Compound of Bromine . 
Bromide of Cloride of Iodide of Ioduret of Nitrate of Oxide of Solution of Chloride of Sixth operation . 
Soda Hyposulphite of Solar and Stellar Light . 
Still for purifying water , Submitting the Plate to the action of Light Synopsis of Mr. Hunt's Treatise on Light , Talbotype Camera . 
