Holiday Romance , by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk HOLIDAY ROMANCE IN FOUR PARTS PART I INTRODUCTORY ROMANCE PROM THE PEN OF WILLIAM TINKLING , ESQ . 
THIS beginning part is not made out of anybody's head , you know . 
You must believe this beginning part more than what comes after , else you won't understand how what comes after came to be written . 
You must believe it all but you must believe this most , please . 
I am the editor of it . 
wanted to be the editor of it but I said he shouldn't because he couldn't . 
HE has no idea of being an editor . 
Nettie Ashford is my bride . 
We were married in the right hand closet in the corner of the dancing school , where first we met , with a ring from Wilkingwater's toy shop . 
I owed for it out of my pocket money . 
It flew right up when it went off , and turned over . 
Robin Redforth was united , with similar ceremonies , to Alice Rainbird . 
This time the cannon burst with a most terrific explosion , and made a puppy bark . 
My peerless bride was , at the period of which we now treat , in captivity at Miss Grimmer's . 
Drowvey and Grimmer is the partnership , and opinion is divided which is the greatest beast . 
The lovely bride of the colonel was also immured in the dungeons of the same establishment . 
A vow was entered into , between the colonel and myself , that we would cut them out on the following Wednesday when walking two and two . 
, suggested an attack with fireworks . 
This , however , from motives of humanity , was abandoned as too expensive . 
He had drawn out the plan of attack on a piece of paper , which was rolled up round a hoop stick . 
He showed it to me . 
was behind a corner lamp post , with written orders to remain there till I should see Miss Drowvey fall . 
The Drowvey who was to fall was the one in spectacles , not the one with the large lavender bonnet . 
At that signal I was to rush forth , seize my bride , and fight my way to the lane . 
There a junction would be effected between myself and the colonel and putting our brides behind us , between ourselves and the palings , we were to conquer or die . 
The enemy appeared , approached . 
Waving his black flag , the colonel attacked . 
Anxiously I awaited my signal but my signal came not . 
So far from falling , the hated Drowvey in spectacles appeared to me to have muffled the colonel's head in his outlawed banner , and to be pitching into him with a parasol . 
The one in the lavender bonnet also performed prodigies of valour with her fists on his back . 
Seeing that all was for the moment lost , I fought my desperate way hand to hand to the lane . 
Through taking the back road , I was so fortunate as to meet nobody , and arrived there uninterrupted . 
It seemed an age ere the colonel joined me . 
He had been to the jobbing tailor's to be sewn up in several places , and attributed our defeat to the refusal of the detested Drowvey to fall . 
Finding her so obstinate , he had said to her , 'Die , recreant ! but had found her no more open to reason on that point than the other . 
My blooming bride appeared , accompanied by the colonel's bride , at the dancing school next day . 
What ? Was her face averted from me ? Hah ? Even so . 
With a look of scorn , she put into my hand a bit of paper , and took another partner . 
At the end of that dance I whispered the colonel to come into the cloak room , and I showed him the note . 
'There is a syllable wanting , said he , with a gloomy brow . 
'Hah ! What syllable ? was my inquiry . 
'She asks , can she write the word ? And no you see she couldn't , said the colonel , pointing out the passage . 
'And the word was ? said I. 'Cow cow coward , hissed the pirate colonel in my ear , and gave me back the note . 
The colonel admitted my right to be tried . 
Some difficulty was found in composing the court , on account of the Emperor of France's aunt refusing to let him come out . 
He was to be the president . 
Ere yet we had appointed a substitute , he made his escape over the back wall , and stood among us , a free monarch . 
The court was held on the grass by the pond . 
I recognised , in a certain admiral among my judges , my deadliest foe . 
owed me a knife , I braced myself for the ordeal . 
It was a solemn spectacle , that court . 
Two executioners with pinafores reversed led me in . 
Under the shade of an umbrella I perceived my bride , supported by the bride of the pirate colonel . 
My implacable enemy , the admiral , conducted the case against me . 
The colonel's bride was called to prove that I had remained behind the corner lamp post during the engagement . 
I might have been spared the anguish of my own bride's being also made a witness to the same point , but the admiral knew where to wound me . 
Be still , my soul , no matter . 
The colonel was then brought forward with his evidence . 
It was for this point that I had saved myself up , as the turning point of my case . 
The president of the court immediately ordered the admiral's mouth to be filled with leaves , and tied up with string . 
I had the satisfaction of seeing the sentence carried into effect before the proceedings went further . 
I then took a paper from my trousers pocket , and asked , 'What do you consider , Col . 
Redford , the first duty of a soldier ? Is it obedience ? 'It is , said the colonel . 
'Is that paper please to look at it in your hand ? 'It is , said the colonel . 
'Is it a military sketch ? 'It is , said the colonel . 
'Of an engagement ? 'Quite so , said the colonel . 
'Of the late engagement ? 'Of the late engagement . 
'Please to describe it , and then hand it to the president of the court . 
From that triumphant moment my sufferings and my dangers were at an end . 
The court rose up and jumped , on discovering that I had strictly obeyed orders . 
My foe , the admiral , who though muzzled was malignant yet , contrived to suggest that I was dishonoured by having quitted the field . 
This was no other than the Emperor of France's aunt catching hold of his hair . 
The proceedings abruptly terminated , and the court tumultuously dissolved . 
On the beauteous faces of the Nymphs dejection sat enthroned . 
'Hah ! exclaimed the pirate . 
'Pretending ? 'Don't go on like that you worry me , returned his bride . 
The lovely bride of Tinkling echoed the incredible declaration . 
The two warriors exchanged stony glances . 
'You know very well , pursued the colonel's bride , 'that Miss Drowvey wouldn't fall . 
You complained of it yourself . 
And you know how disgracefully the court martial ended . 
As to our marriage would my people acknowledge it at home ? 'Or would my people acknowledge ours ? said the bride of Tinkling . 
Again the two warriors exchanged stony glances . 
'And at your own homes , resumed the bride of the colonel , 'it would be just as bad . 
You would be sent to bed , or something equally undignified . 
'But suppose they should object , retorted his bride , 'and wouldn't pay the penalty in blood or anything else ? A mournful silence ensued . 
'Then do you no longer love me , Alice ? asked the colonel . 
'Redforth ! I am ever thine , returned his bride . 
'Then do you no longer love me , Nettie ? asked the present writer . 
'Tinkling ! I am ever thine , returned my bride . 
Let me not be misunderstood by the giddy . 
The colonel embraced his own bride , and I embraced mine . 
But two times two make four . 
'Nettie and I , said Alice mournfully , 'have been considering our position . 
The grown up people are too strong for us . 
Besides , they have changed the times . 
William Tinkling's baby brother was christened yesterday . 
What took place ? Was any king present ? Answer , William . 
I said No , unless disguised as Great uncle Chopper . 
'Any queen ? There had been no queen that I knew of at our house . 
There might have been one in the kitchen but I didn't think so , or the servants would have mentioned it . 
'Any fairies ? None that were visible . 
Was there anything of that sort ? Answer , William . 
, that Great uncle Chopper's gift was a shabby one but she hadn't said a bad one . 
She had called it shabby , electrotyped , second hand , and below his income . 
'It must be the grown up people who have changed all this , said Alice . 
'WE couldn't have changed it , if we had been so inclined , and we never should have been . 
Or perhaps Miss Grimmer IS a wicked fairy after all , and won't act up to it because the grown up people have persuaded her not to . 
Either way , they would make us ridiculous if we told them what we expected . 
'Tyrants ! muttered the pirate colonel . 
'Nay , my Redforth , said Alice , 'say not so . 
Call not names , my Redforth , or they will apply to pa . 
'Let 'em , said the colonel . 
Who's he ? Tinkling here undertook the perilous task of remonstrating with his lawless friend , who consented to withdraw the moody expressions above quoted . 
'What remains for us to do ? Alice went on in her mild , wise way . 
'We must educate , we must pretend in a new manner , we must wait . 
'How educate ? How pretend in a new manner ? How wait ? 'Educate the grown up people , replied Alice . 
Let us veil our meaning under a mask of romance you , I , and Nettie . 
William Tinkling being the plainest and quickest writer , shall copy out . 
Is it agreed ? The colonel answered sulkily , 'I don't mind . 
We will wait ever constant and true till we are eighty , ninety , or one hundred . 
And then the fairies will send US children , and we will help them out , poor pretty little creatures , if they pretend ever so much . 
'So we will , dear , said Nettie Ashford , taking her round the waist with both arms and kissing her . 
'And now if my husband will go and buy some cherries for us , I have got some money . 
When I came back , however , Alice had nearly brought him out of his vexation , and was soothing him by telling him how soon we should all be ninety . 
, we played at being ninety . 
At least , I don't know about merry exactly , but all comfortable . 
There was a most tremendous lot of cherries and Alice always had with her some neat little bag or box or case , to hold things . 
In it that night was a tiny wine glass . 
So Alice and Nettie said they would make some cherry wine to drink our love at parting . 
Each of us had a glassful , and it was delicious and each of us drank the toast , 'Our love at parting . 
The colonel drank his wine last and it got into my head directly that it got into his directly . 
'How did he mean ? I asked my lawless friend . 
The colonel gave in second , and came to first but he gave in strong . 
We were ashamed of our red eyes , and hung about for half an hour to whiten them . 
Likewise a piece of chalk round the rims , I doing the colonel's , and he mine , but afterwards found in the bedroom looking glass not natural , besides inflammation . 
Our conversation turned on being ninety . 
The colonel also told me , with his hand upon his hip , that he felt himself already getting on in life , and turning rheumatic . 
And I told him the same . 
that I stooped , I felt so glad ! This is the end of the beginning part that you were to believe most . 
THERE was once a king , and he had a queen and he was the manliest of his sex , and she was the loveliest of hers . 
The king was , in his private profession , under government . 
The queen's father had been a medical man out of town . 
They had nineteen children , and were always having more . 
Seventeen of these children took care of the baby and Alicia , the eldest , took care of them all . 
Their ages varied from seven years to seven months . 
Let us now resume our story . 
had requested him to send home . 
Mr. Pickles , the fishmonger , said , 'Certainly , sir is there any other article ? Good morning . 
The king went on towards the office in a melancholy mood for quarter day was such a long way off , and several of the dear children were growing out of their clothes . 
He had not proceeded far , when Mr. Pickles's errand boy came running after him , and said , 'Sir , you didn't notice the old lady in our shop . 
'What old lady ? inquired the king . 
Now the king had not seen any old lady , because this old lady had been invisible to him , though visible to Mr. Pickles's boy . 
Just then the old lady came trotting up . 
She was dressed in shot silk of the richest quality , smelling of dried lavender . 
'King Watkins the First , I believe ? said the old lady . 
'Watkins , replied the king , 'is my name . 
'Papa , if I am not mistaken , of the beautiful Princess Alicia ? said the old lady . 
'And of eighteen other darlings , replied the king . 
You are going to the office , said the old lady . 
It instantly flashed upon the king that she must be a fairy , or how could she know that ? 'You are right , said the old lady , answering his thoughts . 
'I am the good Fairy Grandmarina . 
Attend ! When you return home to dinner , politely invite the Princess Alicia to have some of the salmon you bought just now . 
'It may disagree with her , said the king . 
The old lady became so very angry at this absurd idea , that the king was quite alarmed , and humbly begged her pardon . 
'We hear a great deal too much about this thing disagreeing , and that thing disagreeing , said the old lady , with the greatest contempt it was possible to express . 
I think you want it all yourself . 
The king hung his head under this reproof , and said he wouldn't talk about things disagreeing any more . 
'Be good , then , said the Fairy Grandmarina , 'and don't . 
When the beautiful Princess Alicia consents to partake of the salmon , as I think she will , you will find she will leave a fish bone on her plate . 
'Is that all ? asked the king . 
'Don't be impatient , sir , returned the Fairy Grandmarina , scolding him severely . 
'Don't catch people short , before they have done speaking . 
Just the way with you grown up persons . 
You are always doing it . 
The king again hung his head , and said he wouldn't do so any more . 
The king was beginning , 'Might I ask the reason ? when the fairy became absolutely furious . 
'WILL you be good , sir ? she exclaimed , stamping her foot on the ground . 
'The reason for this , and the reason for that , indeed ! You are always wanting the reason . 
There ! Hoity toity me ! I am sick of your grown up reasons . 
There he wrote and wrote and wrote , till it was time to go home again . 
Then he politely invited the Princess Alicia , as the fairy had directed him , to partake of the salmon . 
O , no ! She was very ill indeed , for a long time . 
People did suppose her to be a doll but she was really a duchess , though nobody knew it except the princess . 
This most particular secret was the secret about the magic fish bone , the history of which was well known to the duchess , because the princess told her everything . 
The princess kneeled down by the bed on which the duchess was lying , full dressed and wide awake , and whispered the secret to her . 
The duchess smiled and nodded . 
People might have supposed that she never smiled and nodded but she often did , though nobody knew it except the princess . 
Then the Princess Alicia hurried down stairs again , to keep watch in the queen's room . 
She often kept watch by herself in the queen's room but every evening , while the illness lasted , she sat there watching with the king . 
And every evening the king sat looking at her with a cross look , wondering why she never brought out the magic fish bone . 
'Alicia , said the king , one evening , when she wished him good night . 
But the Princess Alicia put her hands over all their seventeen mouths , one after another , and persuaded them to be quiet because of the sick queen . 
And then she said to two chubby legged princes , who were sturdy though small , 'Bring me in the royal rag bag I must snip and stitch and cut and contrive . 
'What have you been doing ? 'Snipping , stitching , cutting , and contriving , papa . 
'Where is the magic fish bone ? 'In my pocket , papa . 
'I thought you had lost it ? 'O , no , papa . 
'Or forgotten it ? 'No , indeed , papa . 
Well ! and so another time the baby fell under the grate . 
Then the seventeen young princes and princesses , who cried at everything that happened , cried and roared . 
They jumped for joy when they heard that , and began making themselves cooks' caps out of old newspapers . 
they should get splashed and scalded . 
When the broth came tumbling out , steaming beautifully , and smelling like a nosegay good to eat , they clapped their hands . 
That made the baby clap his hands and that , and his looking as if he had a comic toothache , made all the princes and princesses laugh . 
'What else have you been doing , Alicia ? 'Keeping the children light hearted , papa . 
'Where is the magic fish bone , Alicia ? 'In my pocket , papa . 
'I thought you had lost it ? 'O , no , papa ! 'Or forgotten it ? 'No , indeed , papa . 
'What is the matter , papa ? 'I am dreadfully poor , my child . 
'Have you no money at all , papa ? 'None , my child . 
'Is there no way of getting any , papa ? 'No way , said the king . 
'I have tried very hard , and I have tried all ways . 
When she heard those last words , the Princess Alicia began to put her hand into the pocket where she kept the magic fish bone . 
'Papa , said she , 'when we have tried very hard , and tried all ways , we must have done our very , very best ? 'No doubt , Alicia . 
'When we have done our very , very best , papa , and that is not enough , then I think the right time must have come for asking help of others . 
And immediately it WAS quarter day and the king's quarter's salary came rattling down the chimney , and bounced into the middle of the floor . 
, with Mr. Pickles's boy up behind , dressed in silver and gold , with a cocked hat , powdered hair , pink silk stockings , a jewelled cane , and a nosegay . 
, and handed Grandmarina out and there she stood , in her rich shot silk smelling of dried lavender , fanning herself with a sparkling fan . 
'Alicia , my dear , said this charming old fairy , 'how do you do ? I hope I see you pretty well ? Give me a kiss . 
The Princess Alicia embraced her and then Grandmarina turned to the king , and said rather sharply , 'Are you good ? The king said he hoped so . 
'I suppose you know the reason NOW , why my god daughter here , kissing the princess again , 'did not apply to the fish bone sooner ? said the fairy . 
The king made a shy bow . 
'Ah ! but you didn't THEN ? said the fairy . 
The king made a shyer bow . 
'Any more reasons to ask for ? said the fairy . 
The king said , No , and he was very sorry . 
'Be good , then , said the fairy , 'and live happy ever afterwards . 
After that , the angelic baby came in , running alone , with his face and eye not a bit the worse , but much the better . 
Then Grandmarina begged to be introduced to the duchess and , when the duchess was brought down , many compliments passed between them . 
A little whispering took place between the fairy and the duchess and then the fairy said out loud , 'Yes , I thought she would have told you . 
Grandmarina then turned to the king and queen , and said , 'We are going in search of Prince Certainpersonio . 
The pleasure of your company is requested at church in half an hour precisely . 
Prince Certainpersonio was sitting by himself , eating barley sugar , and waiting to be ninety . 
When he saw the peacocks , followed by the carriage , coming in at the window it immediately occurred to him that something uncommon was going to happen . 
'Prince , said Grandmarina , 'I bring you your bride . 
He got into the carriage by the fairy's invitation and there he renewed his acquaintance with the duchess , whom he had seen before . 
The marriage was beautiful beyond expression . 
The duchess was bridesmaid , and beheld the ceremony from the pulpit , where she was supported by the cushion of the desk . 
Grandmarina gave a magnificent wedding feast afterwards , in which there was everything and more to eat , and everything and more to drink . 
The wedding cake was delicately ornamented with white satin ribbons , frosted silver , and white lilies , and was forty two yards round . 
She then turned to Certainpersonio and Alicia , and said , 'My dears , you will have thirty five children , and they will all be good and beautiful . 
Seventeen of your children will be boys , and eighteen will be girls . 
The hair of the whole of your children will curl naturally . 
They will never have the measles , and will have recovered from the whooping cough before being born . 
On hearing such good news , everybody cried out 'Hip , hip , hip , hurrah ! again . 
'It only remains , said Grandmarina in conclusion , 'to make an end of the fish bone . 
FROM THE PEN OF LIEUT . 
THE subject of our present narrative would appear to have devoted himself to the pirate profession at a comparatively early age . 
We find him in command of a splendid schooner of one hundred guns loaded to the muzzle , ere yet he had had a party in honour of his tenth birthday . 
It seems that our hero , considering himself spited by a Latin grammar master , demanded the satisfaction due from one man of honour to another . 
through the commencing stages of his story . 
Suffice it , that we find him bearing the rank of Capt . 
Boldheart , reclining in full uniform on a crimson hearth rug spread out upon the quarter deck of his schooner 'The Beauty , in the China seas . 
It was under these circumstances that the look out at the masthead gave the word , 'Whales ! All was now activity . 
'Where away ? cried Capt . 
'On the larboard bow , sir , replied the fellow at the masthead , touching his hat . 
For such was the height of discipline on board of 'The Beauty , that , even at that height , he was obliged to mind it , or be shot through the head . 
'This adventure belongs to me , said Boldheart . 
Let no man follow and leaping alone into his boat , the captain rowed with admirable dexterity in the direction of the monster . 
'He nears him ! said an elderly seaman , following the captain through his spy glass . 
'He strikes him ! said another seaman , a mere stripling , but also with a spy glass . 
'He tows him towards us ! said another seaman , a man in the full vigour of life , but also with a spy glass . 
In fact , the captain was seen approaching , with the huge bulk following . 
They afterwards made two thousand four hundred and seventeen pound ten and sixpence by it . 
Ordering the sail to be braced up , the captain now stood W. N. W. 'The Beauty' flew rather than floated over the dark blue waters . 
Nothing particular occurred for a fortnight , except taking , with considerable slaughter , four Spanish galleons , and a snow from South America , all richly laden . 
Inaction began to tell upon the spirits of the men . 
Boldheart called all hands aft , and said , 'My lads , I hear there are discontented ones among ye . 
Let any such stand forth . 
His form was that of a giant , but he quailed under the captain's eye . 
'What are your wrongs ? said the captain . 
'Why , d'ye see , Capt . 
laid his hand upon the faithful pocket pistol which he wore in his belt , had lost his balance , and was struggling with the foaming tide . 
And , from the instant of his changing his wet clothes for dry ones , Capt . 
Boldheart had no such devoted though humble friend as William Boozey . 
Boldheart now pointed to the horizon , and called the attention of his crew to the taper spars of a ship lying snug in harbour under the guns of a fort . 
'She shall be ours at sunrise , said he . 
'Serve out a double allowance of grog , and prepare for action . 
When morning dawned , after a sleepless night , it was seen that the stranger was crowding on all sail to come out of the harbour and offer battle . 
As the two ships came nearer to each other , the stranger fired a gun and hoisted Roman colours . 
Boldheart then perceived her to be the Latin grammar master's bark . 
Such indeed she was , and had been tacking about the world in unavailing pursuit , from the time of his first taking to a roving life . 
He then dismissed them to their quarters , and the fight began with a broadside from 'The Beauty . 
She then veered around , and poured in another . 
was not slow to return her fire and a terrific cannonading ensued , in which the guns of 'The Beauty' did tremendous execution . 
The Latin grammar master was seen upon the poop , in the midst of the smoke and fire , encouraging his men . 
, contrasted most unfavourably with the brilliant uniform of the latter . 
At this moment , Boldheart , seizing a pike and putting himself at the head of his men , gave the word to board . 
Scarce had he been put into the captain's boat , ere 'The Scorpion' went down with all on board . 
Boldheart's now assembling his men , a circumstance occurred . 
Boldheart then turned to the Latin grammar master , severely reproaching him with his perfidy , and put it to his crew what they considered that a master who spited a boy deserved . 
They answered with one voice , 'Death . 
'It may be so , said the captain 'but it shall never be said that Boldheart stained his hour of triumph with the blood of his enemy . 
The cutter was immediately prepared . 
'Without taking your life , said the captain , 'I must yet for ever deprive you of the power of spiting other boys . 
I shall turn you adrift in this boat . 
Go ! and spite the natives , if you can find any . 
Deeply conscious of this bitter sarcasm , the unhappy wretch was put into the cutter , and was soon left far behind . 
He made no effort to row , but was seen lying on his back with his legs up , when last made out by the ship's telescopes . 
A stiff breeze now beginning to blow , Capt . 
He then retired for the night , having in truth much need of repose . 
In addition to the fatigues he had undergone , this brave officer had received sixteen wounds in the engagement , but had not mentioned it . 
In the morning a white squall came on , and was succeeded by other squalls of various colours . 
It thundered and lightened heavily for six weeks . 
Hurricanes then set in for two months . 
The oldest sailor on board and he was a very old one had never seen such weather . 
'The Beauty' lost all idea where she was , and the carpenter reported six feet two of water in the hold . 
Everybody fell senseless at the pumps every day . 
Provisions now ran very low . 
Our hero put the crew on short allowance , and put himself on shorter allowance than any man in the ship . 
But his spirit kept him fat . 
In this extremity , the gratitude of Boozey , the captain of the foretop , whom our readers may remember , was truly affecting . 
The loving though lowly William repeatedly requested to be killed , and preserved for the captain's table . 
We now approach a change of affairs . 
Presently fifteen hundred canoes , each paddled by twenty savages , were seen advancing in excellent order . 
, and sang , with great energy , the following strain Choo a choo a choo tooth . 
Nycey ! Choo a choo a choo tooth . 
Nycey ! As the shades of night were by this time closing in , these expressions were supposed to embody this simple people's views of the evening hymn . 
But it too soon appeared that the song was a translation of 'For what we are going to receive , c . 
that the ship was 'The Beauty , Capt . 
All the rest of the savages also fell on their faces with marks of terror , and had also to be lifted up one by one . 
Thus the fame of the great Boldheart had gone before him , even among these children of Nature . 
Turtles and oysters were now produced in astonishing numbers and on these and yams the people made a hearty meal . 
After dinner the chief told Capt . 
Boldheart that there was better feeding up at the village , and that he would be glad to take him and his officers there . 
Apprehensive of treachery , Boldheart ordered his boat's crew to attend him completely armed . 
And well were it for other commanders if their precautions but let us not anticipate . 
When the canoes arrived at the beach , the darkness of the night was illumined by the light of an immense fire . 
to keep close and be upon their guard , Boldheart bravely went on , arm in arm with the chief . 
But how to depict the captain's surprise when he found a ring of savages singing in chorus that barbarous translation of 'For what we are going to receive , c . 
In the mean time , the miserable captive never ceased begging pardon and imploring to be delivered . 
On the generous Boldheart's proposal , it was at length resolved that he should not be cooked , but should be allowed to remain raw , on two conditions , namely . 
That he should never , under any circumstances , presume to teach any boy anything any more . 
Drawing the sword from its sheath , Boldheart swore him to these conditions on its shining blade . 
The prisoner wept bitterly , and appeared acutely to feel the errors of his past career . 
The captain then ordered his boat's crew to make ready for a volley , and after firing to re load quickly . 
'And expect a score or two on ye to go head over heels , murmured William Boozey 'for I'm a looking at ye . 
With those words , the derisive though deadly William took a good aim . 
'Fire ! The ringing voice of Boldheart was lost in the report of the guns and the screeching of the savages . 
Volley after volley awakened the numerous echoes . 
Hundreds of savages were killed , hundreds wounded , and thousands ran howling into the woods . 
The Latin grammar master had a spare night cap lent him , and a long tail coat , which he wore hind side before . 
He presented a ludicrous though pitiable appearance , and serve him right . 
Boldheart , with this rescued wretch on board , standing off for other islands . 
Here he rested some time , receiving from the natives great quantities of precious stones , gold dust , elephants' teeth , and sandal wood , and getting very rich . 
This , too , though he almost every day made presents of enormous value to his men . 
The ship being at length as full as she could hold of all sorts of valuable things , Boldheart gave orders to weigh the anchor , and turn 'The Beauty's' head towards England . 
These orders were obeyed with three cheers and ere the sun went down full many a hornpipe had been danced on deck by the uncouth though agile William . 
Boldheart about three leagues off Madeira , surveying through his spy glass a stranger of suspicious appearance making sail towards him . 
Boldheart at once invited them to breakfast next morning on board 'The Beauty , and gave orders for a brilliant ball that should last all day . 
It was in the course of the night that the captain discovered the hopelessness of reclaiming the Latin grammar master . 
That thankless traitor was found out , as the two ships lay near each other , communicating with 'The Family' by signals , and offering to give up Boldheart . 
He was hanged at the yard arm the first thing in the morning , after having it impressively pointed out to him by Boldheart that this was what spiters came to . 
The meeting between the captain and his parents was attended with tears . 
His uncles and aunts would have attended their meeting with tears too , but he wasn't going to stand that . 
His cousins were very much astonished by the size of his ship and the discipline of his men , and were greatly overcome by the splendour of his uniform . 
He kindly conducted them round the vessel , and pointed out everything worthy of notice . 
He also fired his hundred guns , and found it amusing to witness their alarm . 
The entertainment surpassed everything ever seen on board ship , and lasted from ten in the morning until seven the next morning . 
Only one disagreeable incident occurred . 
Boldheart found himself obliged to put his cousin Tom in irons , for being disrespectful . 
On the boy's promising amendment , however , he was humanely released after a few hours' close confinement . 
Boldheart now took his mother down into the great cabin , and asked after the young lady with whom , it was well known to the world , he was in love . 
, but that she feared the young lady's friends were still opposed to the union . 
Boldheart at once resolved , if necessary , to bombard the town . 
, and demanded to see the mayor , who came out of his office . 
'Dost know the name of yon ship , mayor ? asked Boldheart fiercely . 
'No , said the mayor , rubbing his eyes , which he could scarce believe , when he saw the goodly vessel riding at anchor . 
'She is named The Beauty , said the captain . 
'Hah ! exclaimed the mayor , with a start . 
'And you , then , are Capt . 
'Now , mayor , said the captain , 'choose ! Help me to my bride , or be bombarded . 
The mayor begged for two hours' grace , in which to make inquiries respecting the young lady . 
At the end of the hour the mayor re appeared more dead than alive , closely waited on by Boozey more alive than dead . 
'Captain , said the mayor , 'I have ascertained that the young lady is going to bathe . 
Even now she waits her turn for a machine . 
The tide is low , though rising . 
I , in one of our town boats , shall not be suspected . 
When she comes forth in her bathing dress into the shallow water from behind the hood of the machine , my boat shall intercept her and prevent her return . 
Boldheart , 'thou hast saved thy town . 
All happened as had been arranged . 
There her shrieks of terror were changed to cries of joy . 
He therefore determined to be married on the spot , and signalled for a clergyman and clerk , who came off promptly in a sailing boat named 'The Skylark . 
Another great entertainment was then given on board 'The Beauty , in the midst of which the mayor was called out by a messenger . 
He returned with the news that government had sent down to know whether Capt . 
Boldheart , in acknowledgment of the great services he had done his country by being a pirate , would consent to be made a lieutenant colonel . 
For himself he would have spurned the worthless boon but his bride wished it , and he consented . 
Only one thing further happened before the good ship 'Family' was dismissed , with rich presents to all on board . 
It is painful to record that Capt . 
Boldheart's unmannerly Cousin Tom was actually tied up to receive three dozen with a rope's end 'for cheekiness and making game , when Capt . 
Boldheart's lady begged for him , and he was spared . 
'The Beauty' then refitted , and the captain and his bride departed for the Indian Ocean to enjoy themselves for evermore . 
THERE is a country , which I will show you when I get into maps , where the children have everything their own way . 
It is a most delightful country to live in . 
The grown up people are obliged to obey the children , and are never allowed to sit up to supper , except on their birthdays . 
The children order them to make jam and jelly and marmalade , and tarts and pies and puddings , and all manner of pastry . 
If they say they won't , they are put in the corner till they do . 
They are sometimes allowed to have some but when they have some , they generally have powders given them afterwards . 
One of the inhabitants of this country , a truly sweet young creature of the name of Mrs. Orange , had the misfortune to be sadly plagued by her numerous family . 
Her parents required a great deal of looking after , and they had connections and companions who were scarcely ever out of mischief . 
So Mrs. Orange said to herself , 'I really cannot be troubled with these torments any longer I must put them all to school . 
Mrs. Orange stood upon the scraper to pull at the bell , and give a ring ting ting . 
Mrs. Lemon's neat little housemaid , pulling up her socks as she came along the passage , answered the ring ting ting . 
'Good morning , said Mrs. Orange . 
How do you do ? Mrs. Lemon at home ! 'Yes , ma'am . 
'Will you say Mrs. Orange and baby ? 'Yes , ma'am . 
Mrs. Orange's baby was a very fine one , and real wax all over . 
Mrs. Lemon's baby was leather and bran . 
However , when Mrs. Lemon came into the drawing room with her baby in her arms , Mrs. Orange said politely , 'Good morning . 
How do you do ? And how is little Tootleumboots ? 'Well , she is but poorly . 
Cutting her teeth , ma'am , said Mrs. Lemon . 
'O , indeed , ma'am ! said Mrs. Orange . 
'No fits , I hope ? 'No , ma'am . 
'How many teeth has she , ma'am ? 'Five , ma'am . 
'My Emilia , ma'am , has eight , said Mrs. Orange . 
'Shall we lay them on the mantelpiece side by side , while we converse ? 'By all means , ma'am , said Mrs. Lemon . 
'Hem ! 'The first question is , ma'am , said Mrs. Orange , 'I don't bore you ? 'Not in the least , ma'am , said Mrs. Lemon . 
'Far from it , I assure you . 
'Then pray HAVE you , said Mrs. Orange , 'HAVE you any vacancies ? 'Yes , ma'am . 
Two parents , two intimate friends of theirs , one godfather , two godmothers , and an aunt . 
HAVE you as many as eight vacancies ? 'I have just eight , ma'am , said Mrs. Lemon . 
'Most fortunate ! Terms moderate , I think ? 'Very moderate , ma'am . 
'Diet good , I believe ? 'Excellent , ma'am . 
'Most satisfactory ! Corporal punishment dispensed with ? 'Why , we do occasionally shake , said Mrs. Lemon , 'and we have slapped . 
But only in extreme cases . 
'COULD I , ma'am , said Mrs. Orange , 'COULD I see the establishment ? 'With the greatest of pleasure , ma'am , said Mrs. Lemon . 
Mrs. Lemon took Mrs. Orange into the schoolroom , where there were a number of pupils . 
'Stand up , children , said Mrs. Lemon and they all stood up . 
Mrs. Orange whispered to Mrs. Lemon , 'There is a pale , bald child , with red whiskers , in disgrace . 
Might I ask what he has done ? 'Come here , White , said Mrs. Lemon , 'and tell this lady what you have been doing . 
'Betting on horses , said White sulkily . 
'Are you sorry for it , you naughty child ? said Mrs. Lemon . 
'Sorry to lose , but shouldn't be sorry to win . 
'There's a vicious boy for you , ma'am , said Mrs. Lemon . 
'Go along with you , sir . 
This is Brown , Mrs. Orange . 
O , a sad case , Brown's ! Never knows when he has had enough . 
How is your gout , sir ? 'Bad , said Brown . 
'What else can you expect ? said Mrs. Lemon . 
'Your stomach is the size of two . 
Go and take exercise directly . 
Mrs. Black , come here to me . 
Now , here is a child , Mrs. Orange , ma'am , who is always at play . 
She can't be kept at home a single day together always gadding about and spoiling her clothes . 
Play , play , play , play , from morning to night , and to morning again . 
How can she expect to improve ? 'Don't expect to improve , sulked Mrs. Black . 
'There is a specimen of her temper , ma'am , said Mrs. Lemon . 
'To see her when she is tearing about , neglecting everything else , you would suppose her to be at least good humoured . 
'Ah , I have , indeed , ma'am ! said Mrs. Lemon . 
'Well , I wish you good morning , ma'am , said Mrs. Lemon . 
So Mrs. Orange took up her baby and went home , and told the family that plagued her so that they were all going to be sent to school . 
They said they didn't want to go to school but she packed up their boxes , and packed them off . 
'O dear me , dear me ! Rest and be thankful ! said Mrs. Orange , throwing herself back in her little arm chair . 
'Those troublesome troubles are got rid of , please the pigs ! Just then another lady , named Mrs. Alicumpaine , came calling at the street door with a ring ting ting . 
'My dear Mrs. Alicumpaine , said Mrs. Orange , 'how do you do ? Pray stay to dinner . 
'I shall be too glad . 
But what do you think I have come for , ma'am ? Guess , ma'am . 
'I really cannot guess , ma'am , said Mrs. Orange . 
'More than charmed , I am sure ! said Mrs. Orange . 
'So kind of you ! said Mrs. Alicumpaine . 
'But I hope the children won't bore you ? 'Dear things ! Not at all , said Mrs. Orange . 
Mr. Orange here came home from the city and he came , too , with a ring ting ting . 
'James love , said Mrs. Orange , 'you look tired . 
What has been doing in the city to day ? 'Trap , bat , and ball , my dear , said Mr. Orange , 'and it knocks a man up . 
'That dreadfully anxious city , ma'am , said Mrs. Orange to Mrs. Alicumpaine 'so wearing , is it not ? 'O , so trying ! said Mrs. Alicumpaine . 
Jane , go down to the cellar , and fetch a bottle of the Upest ginger beer . 
At tea time , Mr. and Mrs. Orange , and baby , and Mrs. Alicumpaine went off to Mrs. Alicumpaine's house . 
The children had not come yet but the ball room was ready for them , decorated with paper flowers . 
'How very sweet ! said Mrs. Orange . 
'The dear things ! How pleased they will be ! 'I don't care for children myself , said Mr. Orange , gaping . 
'Not for girls ? said Mrs. Alicumpaine . 
'Come ! you care for girls ? Mr. Orange shook his head , and gaped again . 
'Frivolous and vain , ma'am . 
'My dear James , cried Mrs. Orange , who had been peeping about , 'do look here . 
Here's the supper for the darlings , ready laid in the room behind the folding doors . 
As for us , ma'am , we shall have quite enough to do to manage the company . 
'O , indeed , you may say so ! Quite enough , ma'am , said Mrs. Orange . 
The company began to come . 
The first of them was a stout boy , with a white top knot and spectacles . 
The housemaid brought him in and said , 'Compliments , and at what time was he to be fetched ! Mrs. Alicumpaine said , 'Not a moment later than ten . 
How do you do , sir ? Go and sit down . 
Then a number of other children came boys by themselves , and girls by themselves , and boys and girls together . 
They didn't behave at all well . 
Some of them looked through quizzing glasses at others , and said , 'Who are those ? Don't know them . 
I shall be truly sorry to do it but , if you put yourself in everybody's way , I must positively send you home . 
One boy , with a beard and a large white waistcoat , who stood straddling on the hearth rug warming his coat tails , WAS sent home . 
'Highly incorrect , my dear , said Mrs. Alicumpaine , handing him out of the room , 'and I cannot permit it . 
There was a children's band , harp , cornet , and piano , and Mrs. Alicumpaine and Mrs. Orange bustled among the children to persuade them to take partners and dance . 
But they were so obstinate ! For quite a long time they would not be persuaded to take partners and dance . 
Most of the boys said , 'Thanks much ! But not at present . 
And most of the rest of the boys said , 'Thanks much ! But never do . 
'O , these children are very wearing ! said Mrs. Alicumpaine to Mrs. Orange . 
'Dear things ! I dote upon them but they ARE wearing , said Mrs. Orange to Mrs. Alicumpaine . 
'O , it's very hard indeed to get these vexing children to be entertained ! said Mrs. Alicumpaine to Mrs. Orange . 
'I dote upon the darlings but it is hard , said Mrs. Orange to Mrs. Alicumpaine . 
They were trying children , that's the truth . 
First , they wouldn't sing when they were asked and then , when everybody fully believed they wouldn't , they would . 
The girls were so ridiculously dressed , too , that they were in rags before supper . 
'How are the children getting on ? said Mr. Orange to Mrs. Orange , when Mrs. Orange came to look after baby . 
Mrs. Orange had left baby on a shelf near Mr. Orange while he played at beggar my neighbour , and had asked him to keep his eye upon her now and then . 
'Most charmingly , my dear ! said Mrs. Orange . 
'So droll to see their little flirtations and jealousies ! Do come and look ! 'Much obliged to you , my dear , said Mr. Orange 'but I don't care about children myself . 
So Mrs. Orange , having seen that baby was safe , went back without Mr. Orange to the room where the children were having supper . 
'What are they doing now ? said Mrs. Orange to Mrs. Alicumpaine . 
'They are making speeches , and playing at parliament , said Mrs. Alicumpaine to Mrs. Orange . 
On hearing this , Mrs. Orange set off once more back again to Mr. Orange , and said , 'James dear , do come . 
The children are playing at parliament . 
'Thank you , my dear , said Mr. Orange , 'but I don't care about parliament myself . 
So Mrs. Orange went once again without Mr. Orange to the room where the children were having supper , to see them playing at parliament . 
, he would proceed to explain . 
upon his heart , and would tell honourable gentlemen that he was about to open the door to general approval . 
Then he opened the door by saying , 'To our hostess ! and everybody else said 'To our hostess ! and then there were cheers . 
Then another tiresome boy started up in sing song , and then half a dozen noisy and nonsensical boys at once . 
But at last Mrs. Alicumpaine said , 'I cannot have this din . 
Now , children , you have played at parliament very nicely but parliament gets tiresome after a little while , and it's time you left off , for you will soon be fetched . 
, they began to be fetched and you will be very glad to be told that the tiresome fat boy who had been on his legs was walked off first without any ceremony . 
Mr. Orange got his hat , and Mrs. Orange got her bonnet and her baby , and they set out to walk home . 
They had to pass Mrs. Lemon's preparatory establishment on their way . 
'James dear ! 'You dote upon them , you know , said Mr. Orange . 
'I do , said Mrs. Orange rapturously . 
'O , I DO ! 'I don't , said Mr. Orange . 
'If she was paid for it , I daresay she would , said Mr. Orange . 
kept them at school as long as ever they lived , and made them do whatever they were told . 
