The Holy War by John Bunyan . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
uk THE HOLY WAR TO THE READER . 
But , readers , I have somewhat else to do , Than with vain stories thus to trouble you . 
What here I say , some men do know so well , They can with tears and joy the story tell . 
The town of Mansoul is well known to many , Nor are her troubles doubted of by any That are acquainted with those Histories That Mansoul and her wars anatomize . 
For they are true he that will them deny Must needs the best of records vilify . 
For my part , I myself was in the town , Both when 'twas set up , and when pulling down . 
I saw Diabolus in his possession , And Mansoul also under his oppression . 
Yea , I was there when she own'd him for lord , And to him did submit with one accord . 
Yea , how they set themselves in battle 'ray , I shall remember to my dying day . 
I saw the colours waving in the wind , And they within to mischief how combin'd To ruin Mansoul , and to make away Her primum mobile without delay . 
I heard them fall , and saw what work they made . 
And while the cry , 'Kill , kill , was in mine ears , The gutters ran , not so with blood as tears . 
I saw Emmanuel , when he possess'd His town of Mansoul and how greatly blest A town his gallant town of Mansoul was , When she received his pardon , loved his laws . 
When the Diabolonians were caught , When tried , and when to execution brought , Then I was there yea , I was standing by When Mansoul did the rebels crucify . 
I also saw Mansoul clad all in white , I heard her Prince call her his heart's delight . 
I saw him put upon her chains of gold , And rings , and bracelets , goodly to behold . 
What shall I say ? I heard the people's cries , And saw the Prince wipe tears from Mansoul's eyes . 
Mansoul , the desire of both princes was One keep his gain would , t'other gain his loss . 
Diabolus would cry , 'The town is mine ! Emmanuel would plead a right divine Unto his Mansoul then to blows they go , And Mansoul cries , 'These wars will me undo . 
And also turn it right , if thou wouldst know My riddle , and wouldst with my heifer plough It lies there in the window . 
Fare thee well , My next may be to ring thy passing bell . 
AN ADVERTISEMENT TO THE READER . 
Or that so fond I am of being sire , I'll father bastards or , if need require , I'll tell a lie in print to get applause . 
I scorn it John such dirt heap never was , Since God converted him . 
Let this suffice To show why I my 'Pilgrim' patronize . 
It came from mine own heart , so to my head , And thence into my fingers trickled Then to my pen , from whence immediately On paper I did dribble it daintily . 
Witness my name , if anagram'd to thee , The letters make 'Nu hony in a B. JOHN BUNYAN . 
A RELATION OF THE HOLY WAR . 
IN my travels , as I walked through many regions and countries , it was my chance to happen into that famous continent of Universe . 
A very large and spacious country it is it lieth between the two poles , and just amidst the four points of the heavens . 
Some are right , and some are wrong , even as it happeneth to be in lesser regions . 
had not my master sent for me home to his house , there to do business for him , and to oversee business done . 
that I may say of it , as was said before of the continent in which it is placed , There is not its equal under the whole heaven . 
He made it the mirror and glory of all that he made , even the top piece , beyond anything else that he did in that country . 
And as he made it goodly to behold , so also mighty to have dominion over all the country round about . 
Yea , all were commanded to acknowledge Mansoul for their metropolitan , all were enjoined to do homage to it . 
Aye , the town itself had positive commission and power from her King to demand service of all , and also to subdue any that anyways denied to do it . 
This place Shaddai made also a garrison of , but committed the keeping of it only to the men of the town . 
The names of the gates were these Ear gate , Eye gate , Mouth gate , Nose gate , and Feel gate . 
It had always a sufficiency of provision within its walls it had the best , most wholesome , and excellent law that then was extant in the world . 
his countenance , his protection , and it was his delight , etc . 
This giant was king of the blacks , and a most raving prince he was . 
We will , if you please , first discourse of the origin of this Diabolus , and then of his taking of this famous town of Mansoul . 
This Diabolus is indeed a great and mighty prince , and yet both poor and beggarly . 
Wherefore he first consults with himself what had best to be done and then breaks his mind to some other of his companions , to the which they also agreed . 
So , in fine , they came to this issue that they should make an attempt upon the King's Son to destroy him , that the inheritance might be theirs . 
Well , to be short , the treason , as I said , was concluded , the time appointed , the word given , the rebels rendezvoused , and the assault attempted . 
you may he sure they would now add to their former pride what malice and rage against Shaddai , and against his Son , they could . 
I say , they knew that Mansoul belonged unto Shaddai for they were there when he built it and beautified it for himself . 
Whether they had best all of them to show themselves in this design to the town of Mansoul . 
Whether they had best to go and sit down against Mansoul in their now ragged and beggarly guise . 
Whether they had best show to Mansoul their intentions , and what design they came about , or whether to assault it with words and ways of deceit . 
, 'that we should take the town for that none can enter into it without its own consent . 
Let , therefore , but few , or but one , assault Mansoul and in mine opinion , said Diabolus , 'let me be he . 
Wherefore to this they all agreed . 
And then to the second proposal they came , namely , Whether they had best go and sit down before Mansoul in their now ragged and beggarly guise . 
And if so , said he , 'then , as my Lord Diabolus said but now , it is in vain for us to think of taking the town . 
Then one said one thing , and another the contrary . 
Then they proceeded to the third thing , which was . 
Whether they had best to show their intentions , or the design of his coming , to Mansoul , or no . 
nor can they by any means be won but by their own consent . 
'a discovery of our intentions may make them send to their king for aid and if that be done , I know quickly what time of day it will be with us . 
This is the way to win Mansoul , and to make them of themselves open their gates to us yea , and to desire us too to come in to them . 
Now there was not one bit of a reply against this this went as current down as doth the water down a steep descent . 
Wherefore they go to consider of the last proposal , which was . 
This was carried in the affirmative , and the man that was designed by this stratagem to be destroyed was one Mr. Resistance , otherwise called Captain Resistance . 
And a great man in Mansoul this Captain Resistance was , and a man that the giant Diabolus and his band more feared than they feared the whole town of Mansoul besides . 
Now who should be the actor to do the murder ? That was the next , and they appointed one Tisiphone , a fury of the lake , to do it . 
So they drew up and sat down before Ear gate , for that was the place of hearing for all without the town , as Eye gate was the place of perspection . 
So , as I said , he came up with his train to the gate , and laid his ambuscado for Captain Resistance within bow shot of the town . 
This done , the giant ascended up close to the gate , and called to the town of Mansoul for audience . 
Nor took he any with him but one Ill pause , who was his orator in all difficult matters . 
Wherefore , grant me your audience , and hear me patiently . 
come to show you how you may obtain great and ample deliverance from a bondage that , unawares to yourselves , you are captivated and enslaved under . 
At this the town of Mansoul began to prick up its ears . 
And 'What is it ? Pray what is it ? thought they . 
And he said , 'I have somewhat to say to you concerning your King , concerning his law , and also touching yourselves . 
Touching your King , I know he is great and potent but yet all that he hath said to you is neither true nor yet for your advantage . 
It is not true , for that wherewith he hath hitherto awed you , shall not come to pass , nor be fulfilled , though you do the thing that he hath forbidden . 
Touching his laws , this I say further , they are both unreasonable , intricate , and intolerable . 
But it is also intricate , in that he saith , first , you may eat of all and yet after forbids the eating of one . 
is that , and that alone , which is able , by your eating , to minister to you a good as yet unknown by you . 
poor Mansoul was wholly left naked of courage , nor had she now any heart to resist . 
But this was as the devil would have it . 
sunk down in the place where he stood , nor could be brought to life again . 
So he accepted the motion , and became the king of the town of Mansoul . 
This being done , the next thing was to give him possession of the castle , and so of the whole strength of the town . 
Wherefore , into the castle he goes it was that which Shaddai built in Mansoul for his own delight and pleasure this now was become a den and hold for the giant Diabolus . 
Wherefore my Lord Mayor , whose name was my Lord Understanding , and Mr. Recorder , whose name was Mr. Conscience , these he put out of place and power . 
And thus , being alienated from the light , he became as one that was born blind . 
To this , his house , my lord was confined as to a prison nor might he , upon his parole , go farther than within his own bounds . 
so long my Lord Mayor was rather an impediment in , than an advantage to the famous town of Mansoul . 
make the whole town of Mansoul shake with his voice and therefore the now king of Mansoul could not abide him . 
past all conscience of sin . 
And this was the farthest Diabolus could go . 
Wherefore he bethinks him of another project , and that was , to persuade the men of the town that Mr. Recorder was mad , and so not to be regarded . 
Thus , by one means or another , he quickly got Mansoul to slight , neglect , and despise whatever Mr. Recorder could say . 
And , indeed , this was the next way to make himself ridiculous , and to cause that no man should regard him . 
Also now he never spake freely for King Shaddai , but also by force and constraint . 
Besides , he would at one time be hot against that at which , at another , he would hold his peace so uneven was he now in his doings . 
He knows that though you were his , now you are lawfully mine so , leaving us one to another , he now hath shaken his hands of us . 
Your liberty also , as yourselves do very well know , has been greatly widened and enlarged by me whereas I found you a penned up people . 
Yea , the rascal crew at some times would be for destroying him . 
did terrify and afflict them sore . 
But all wishes were vain , for I do not know how , unless by the power of Shaddai , and his wisdom , he was preserved in being amongst them . 
But to leave Mr. Recorder , and to come to my Lord Willbewill , another of the gentry of the famous town of Mansoul . 
Now , together with these , he was a man of great strength , resolution , and courage , nor in his occasion could any turn him away . 
be a petty ruler and governor in Mansoul . 
And perceiving the valour and stoutness of the man , he coveted to have him for one of his great ones , to act and do in matters of the highest concern . 
So he sent for him , and talked with him of that secret matter that lay in his breast , but there needed not much persuasion in the case . 
For as at first he was willing that Diabolus should be let into the town , so now he was as willing to serve him there . 
And now was Mansoul brought under to purpose , and made to fulfil the lusts of the will , and of the mind . 
But it will not out of my thoughts what a desperate one this Willbewill was when power was put into his hand . 
First , he flatly denied that he owed any suit or service to his former prince and liege lord . 
Also he could not endure that so much as a fragment of the law of Shaddai should be anywhere seen in the town . 
True , Mr. Recorder had some of the laws in his study but my lord could by no means come at them . 
He also thought and said , that the windows of my old Lord Mayor's house were always too light for the profit of the town of Mansoul . 
The light of a candle he could not endure . 
Now nothing at all pleased Willbewill but what pleased Diabolus his lord . 
There was none like him to trumpet about the streets the brave nature , the wise conduct , and great glory of the king Diabolus . 
And I say , when and wheresoever he found these vassals , he would even make himself as one of them . 
In all ill courses he would act without bidding , and do mischief without commandment . 
that fell in love , and made a match , and were married and , as I take it , they had several children , as Impudent , Blackmouth , and Hate Reproof . 
These three were black boys . 
And besides these they had three daughters , as Scorn Truth and Slight God , and the name of the youngest was Revenge . 
These were all married in the town , and also begot and yielded many bad brats , too many to be here inserted . 
But to pass by this . 
When the giant had thus engarrisoned himself in the town of Mansoul , and had put down and set up whom he thought good , he betakes himself to defacing . 
Now there was in the market place in Mansoul , and also upon the gates of the castle , an image of the blessed King Shaddai . 
that it did the most resemble Shaddai himself of anything that then was extant in the world . 
This he basely commanded to be defaced , and it was as basely done by the hand of Mr. No Truth . 
Also relative severities he sought to extinguish . 
He encouraged , countenanced , and promoted lasciviousness , and all ungodliness there . 
And let this serve to give a taste to them that love to hear tell of what is done beyond their knowledge afar off in other countries . 
Now Mansoul being wholly at his beck , and brought wholly to his bow , nothing was heard or seen therein but that which tended to set up him . 
he did choose for them a Lord Mayor and a Recorder himself , and such as contented them at the heart , and such also as pleased him wondrous well . 
The name of the Mayor that was of Diabolus' making was the Lord Lustings , a man that had neither eyes nor ears . 
All that he did , whether as a man or an officer , he did it naturally , as doth the beast . 
The Recorder was one whose name was Forget Good , and a very sorry fellow he was . 
He could remember nothing but mischief , and to do it with delight . 
He was naturally prone to do things that were hurtful , even hurtful to the town of Mansoul , and to all the dwellers there . 
These two , therefore , by their power and practice , examples , and smiles upon evil , did much more grammar and settle the common people in hurtful ways . 
Mr. Incredulity is the eldest , and Mr. Atheism the youngest of the company . 
The first he called the Hold of Defiance , because it was made to command the whole town , and to keep it from the knowledge of its ancient King . 
The second he called Midnight Hold , because it was built on purpose to keep Mansoul from the true knowledge of itself . 
The third was called Sweet Sin Hold , because by that he fortified Mansoul against all desires of good . 
He that was made the governor of Midnight Hold was one Love no Light he was also of them that came first against the town . 
This fellow could find more sweetness when he stood sucking of a lust than he did in all the paradise of God . 
And now Diabolus thought himself safe . 
Yea , tidings were carried and brought to the King thereof , and that to a very circumstance . 
with craft , subtlety , lies , and guile . 
ITEM , that he had treacherously slain the right noble and valiant captain , their Captain Resistance , as he stood upon the gate with the rest of the townsmen . 
at the hearing of his just lord and rightful prince , Shaddai , so abused by the mouth of so filthy a Diabolian as that varlet Ill Pause was . 
He further showed how Diabolus had served the Lord Mayor and Mr. Recorder , to wit , that he had put them from all place of power and trust . 
'Yea , said the messenger , 'this monster , Lord Willbewill , has openly disavowed his King Shaddai , and hath horribly given his faith and plighted his troth to Diabolus . 
For Mayor , he has set up one Mr. Lustings and for Recorder , Mr. Forget Good two of the vilest of all the town of Mansoul . 
This faithful messenger also proceeded , and told what a sort of new burgesses Diabolus had made also that he had built several strong forts , towers , and strongholds in Mansoul . 
The King said plainly that it grieved him at the heart , and you may be sure that his Son was not a whit behind him . 
Thus gave they conviction to all about them that they had love and compassion for the famous town of Mansoul . 
Well , but after a few casts in his mind , he concluded upon these four things . 
I hope they are but flying stories , quoth he 'however , let no such news by any means be let into Mansoul , lest the people be dejected thereat . 
Wherefore I desire , my lord , that you will in this matter do as I say . 
Let there be strong guards daily kept at every gate of the town . 
Thus did Diabolus tie poor Mansoul fast . 
Now this he did for these reasons . 
To endeavour to possess all hearts in the town of Mansoul that Shaddai was raising an army , to come to overthrow and utterly to destroy this town of Mansoul . 
Then said Diabolus again , 'It is in vain for us to hope for quarter , for this King knows not how to show it . 
But shall we be flattered out of our lives ? I hope you know more of the rudiments of politics than to suffer yourselves so pitifully to be served . 
I am for you , if you are for me and it is better to die valiantly than to live like pitiful slaves . 
But , I say , the life of a slave will be counted a life too good for Mansoul now . 
Blood , blood , nothing but blood is in every blast of Shaddai's trumpet against poor Mansoul now . 
Pray , be concerned I hear he is coming . 
Up , and stand to your arms that now , while you have any leisure , I may learn you some feats of war . 
Come , therefore , to my castle , and welcome , and harness yourselves for the war . 
There is helmet , breastplate , sword , and shield , and what not , that will make you fight like men . 
My helmet , otherwise called an head piece , is in hope of doing well at last , what lives soever you live . 
This is that which they had who said , that they should have peace , though they walked in the wickedness of their heart , to add drunkenness to thirst . 
A piece of approved armour this is , and whoever has it , and can hold it , so long no arrow , dart , sword , or shield can hurt him . 
This , therefore , keep on , and thou wilt keep off many a blow , my Mansoul . 
My breastplate is a breastplate of iron . 
I had it forged in mine own country , and all my soldiers are armed therewith . 
This therefore , is a piece of armour most necessary for all to put on that hate Shaddai , and that would fight against him under my banner . 
My sword is a tongue that is set on fire of hell , and that can bend itself to speak evil of Shaddai , his Son , his ways , and people . 
Use this it has been tried a thousand times twice told . 
Whoever hath it , keeps it , and makes that use of it as I would have him , can never be conquered by mine enemy . 
My , shield is unbelief , or calling into question the truth of the word , or all the sayings that speak of the judgment that Shaddai has appointed for wicked men . 
Now , to handle this weapon of mine aright , it is not to believe things because they are true , of what sort or by whomsoever asserted . 
What ! cry for quarter ! Never do that , if you would be mine . 
I know you are stout men , and am sure that I have clad you with that which is armour of proof . 
Wherefore , to cry to Shaddai for mercy , let that be far from you . 
Besides all this , I have a maul , firebrands , arrows , and death , all good hand weapons , and such as will do execution . 
The army consisted of above forty thousand , all true men , for they came from the King's own court , and were those of his own choosing . 
They came up to Mansoul under the conduct of four stout generals , each man being a captain of ten thousand men , and these are their names and their ensigns . 
These were the captains that Shaddai sent to regain Mansoul . 
First , to Captain Boanerges , for he was the chief , to him , I say , were given ten thousand men . 
His ensign was Mr. Thunder he bare the black colours , and his scutcheon was the three burning thunderbolts . 
The second captain was Captain Conviction to him also were given ten thousand men . 
His ensign's name was Mr. Sorrow he did bear the pale colours , and his scutcheon was the book of the law wide open , from whence issued a flame of fire . 
The third captain was Captain Judgment to him were given ten thousand men . 
His ensign's name was Mr. Terror he bare the red colours , and his scutcheon was a burning fiery furnace . 
The fourth captain was Captain Execution to him were given ten thousand men . 
His ensign was one Mr. Justice he also bare the red colours , and his scutcheon was a fruitless tree , with an axe lying at the root thereof . 
And here let me give you an account of the matter and sum contained in their commission . 
A COMMISSION FROM THE GREAT SHADDAI , KING OF MANSOUL , TO HIS TRUSTY AND NOBLE CAPTAIN , THE CAPTAIN BOANERGES , FOR HIS MAKING WAR UPON THE TOWN OF MANSOUL . 
Thus you see the sum of their commissions for , as I said before , for the substance of them , they were the same that the rest of the noble captains had . 
So , after a new entertainment from Shaddai , with flying colours they set forward to march towards the famous town of Mansoul . 
Captain Boanerges led the van , Captain Conviction and Captain Judgment made up the main body , and Captain Execution brought up the rear . 
marched through the regions and countries of many people , not hurting or abusing any , but blessing wherever they came . 
They also lived upon the King's cost in all the way they went . 
So , when they had pitched their tents and entrenched themselves , they addressed themselves to make their assault . 
'I will leave off now to chide , and will not further rebuke you but I charge you , that henceforwards you let me see no more such actions . 
Let not henceforward a man of you , without order first obtained from me , so much as show his head over the wall of the town of Mansoul . 
Nor could any of them be quiet after but still , as men bereft of wit , they cried out , 'The destroyers of our peace and people are come . 
This went down with Diabolus . 
'Ah , quoth he to himself , 'this I like well now it is as I would have it now you show your obedience to your prince . 
Hold you but here , and then let them take the town if they can . 
So the trumpeter went , and did as he was commanded he went up to Ear gate , and sounded his trumpet , and gave a third summons to Mansoul . 
and the keeper of the gates of Mansoul . 
Then said the Lord Willbewill , 'I will carry thy words to my lord , and will know what he will say . 
But the trumpeter soon replied , saying . 
Then said the Lord Willbewill , 'I will do your errand to the town . 
The trumpeter then replied , 'Sir , do not deceive us , lest , in so doing , you deceive yourselves much more . 
So the said Lord Willbewill returned from off the wall , and the trumpeter came into the camp . 
So I told him my errand , and by whose authority I brought it . 
Then , said he , I will tell it to the governor and to Mansoul and then I returned to my lords . 
Then said the brave Boanerges , 'Let us yet for a while lie still in our trenches , and see what these rebels will do . 
So he went and sounded , and the townsmen came up , but made Ear gate as sure as they could . 
to the captain , 'Mr . 
'Hear , O Mansoul ! Thou , O Mansoul , wast once famous for innocency , but now thou art degenerated into lies and deceit . 
will sufficiently testify against you . 
Ah , Mansoul ! suffer not thyself to be kept from mercy , and to be run into a thousand miseries , by the flattering wiles of Diabolus . 
Nor will the gate of the King's clemency stand always open for the day that shall burn like an oven is before him yea , it hasteth greatly , it slumbereth not . 
If thou sayest thou shalt not see him , yet judgment is before him therefore trust thou in him . 
Yea , because there is wrath , beware lest he take thee away with his stroke then a great ransom cannot deliver thee . 
Will he esteem thy riches ? No , not gold , nor all the forces of strength . 
Therefore , O Mansoul , take heed lest , after thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked , justice and judgment should take hold of thee . 
Behold , the axe is laid to the root of the trees every tree , therefore , that bringeth not forth good fruit , is hewn down and cast into the fire . 
'Thou , O town of Mansoul , hast hitherto been this fruitless tree thou bearest nought but thorns and briars . 
Thy evil fruit bespeaks thee not to be a good tree thy grapes are grapes of gall , thy clusters are bitter . 
Thou hast rebelled against thy King and , lo ! we , the power and force of Shaddai , are the axe that is laid to thy root . 
then what follows but , 'Cut it down' ? nay , 'After that thou shalt cut it down . 
In fine , the town desired a time to prepare their answer to these demands . 
His power , his greatness , his vengeance , we fear not nor will we yield at all to your summons . 
'To conclude we dread you not , we fear you not , nor will we obey your summons . 
Our gates we will shut upon you , our place we will keep you out of . 
Nor will we long thus suffer you to sit down before us our people must live in quiet your appearance doth disturb them . 
Wherefore arise with bag and baggage , and begone , or we will let fly from the walls against you . 
Then did the town of Mansoul shout for joy , as if by Diabolus and his crew some great advantage had been gotten of the captains . 
They also rang the bells , and made merry , and danced upon the walls . 
And , first , they made their force more formidable against Ear gate for they knew that , unless they could penetrate that , no good could be done upon the town . 
This done , they put the rest of their men in their places after which , they gave out the word , which was , 'YE MUST BE BORN AGAIN . 
Then they sounded the trumpet then they in the town made them answer , with shout against shout , charge against charge , and so the battle began . 
Now they in the town had planted upon the tower over Ear gate two great guns , the one called High mind , and the other Heady . 
Unto these two guns they trusted much they were cast in the castle by Diabolus' founder , whose name was Mr. Puff up , and mischievous pieces they were . 
The famous Mansoul had also some other small pieces in it , of the which they made use against the camp of Shaddai . 
But when the captains saw how it was they made a fair retreat , and entrenched themselves in their winter quarters . 
Now , in this war , you must needs think there was much loss on both sides , of which be pleased to accept of this brief account following . 
Their names were Mr. Tradition , Mr. Human Wisdom , and Mr. Man's Invention . 
So they came up to the captains , and proffered their service to Shaddai . 
Then Captain Boanerges , for that they were men of courage , listed them into his company , and so away they went to the war . 
At length tidings thereof were carried to Diabolus to the castle , to wit what my Lord Willbewill's men had done , and whom they had taken prisoners . 
Then Diabolus called for Willbewill , to know the certainty of this matter . 
So he asked him , and he told him . 
Then he sent them to ward again . 
Not many days after , he sent for them to him again , and then asked them if they would be willing to serve him against their former captains . 
Receive them , therefore , in my name , and , as need shall require , make use of them against Shaddai and his men . 
So they came , and he received them and he made of two of them sergeants but he made Mr. Man's Invention his ancient bearer . 
But thus much for this , and now to return to the camp . 
They had almost , with a sling , slain my Lord Willbewill outright but he made a shift to recover again . 
They also dismounted the two guns that stood upon the tower over Ear gate , and laid them flat in the dirt . 
And this design of them did so hit , that I may say they did almost what they would to the molestation of the corporation . 
Sometimes the trumpets would sound , and sometimes the slings would whirl the stones into the town . 
Sometimes ten thousand of the King's soldiers would be running round the walls of Mansoul at midnight , shouting and lifting up the voice for the battle . 
Yea , so distressed with those that laid siege against them were they , that , I dare say , Diabolus , their king , had in these days his rest much broken . 
Some would say , 'There is no living thus . 
Others would then reply , 'This will be over shortly . 
Then would a third stand up and answer , 'Let us turn to the King Shaddai , and so put an end to these troubles . 
And a fourth would come in with a fear , saying , 'I doubt he will not receive us . 
No noise now so terrible to Mansoul as was his , with the noise of the soldiers and shoutings of the captains . 
Also things began to grow scarce in Mansoul now the things that her soul lusted after were departing from her . 
Upon all her pleasant things there was a blast , and burning instead of beauty . 
Wrinkles now , and some shows of the shadow of death , were upon the inhabitants of Mansoul . 
Diabolus also began to rave wherefore Mansoul , as to yielding , was not yet all of one mind therefore they still lay distressed under these perplexing fears . 
I told you but now that they of the King's army had this winter sent three times to Mansoul to submit herself . 
And having bid them beware that they stood not in their own way , that they opposed not themselves , nor made themselves their own losers , he returned again into the camp . 
'Only , said he , 'they commanded me to give you a summons to open the gates unto them . 
So he returned , and went into the camp . 
Well , the Lord Willbewill sounded upon the wall so the captains came up in their harness , with their ten thousands at their feet . 
That no new law , officer , or executioner of law or office , shall have any power over them , without their own choice and consent . 
'These be our propositions , or conditions of peace and upon these terms , said they , 'we will submit to your King . 
We do therefore jointly , and that with the highest disdain , refuse and reject such things , as the greatest of iniquities . 
Wherefore , to give up yourselves to an unlimited power , is the greatest folly in the world for now you indeed may repent , but can never justly complain . 
Wherefore the captains returned to their trenches , to their tents , and to their men , as they were and the Mayor to the castle and to his King . 
Now Diabolus had waited for his return , for he had heard that they had been at their points . 
So , when he was come into the chamber of state , Diabolus saluted him with 'Welcome , my lord . 
I do promise thee , if we rub over this brunt , to prefer thee to a place of honour , a place far better than to be Lord Mayor of Mansoul . 
Now came the Lord Mayor out from Diabolus , as if he had obtained a favour indeed . 
Wherefore to his habitation he goes in great state , and thinks to feed himself well enough with hopes , until the time came that his greatness should be enlarged . 
But now , though the Lord Mayor and Diabolus did thus well agree , yet this repulse to the brave captains put Mansoul into a mutiny . 
However , they strongly assaulted the house where he was , to have pulled it down about his ears but the place was too strong , so they failed of that . 
First , in that you would not let Mr. Conscience and myself be at the hearing of your discourse . 
Then said old Incredulity , 'This is but little better . 
Then replied the old Recorder , whose name was Mr. Conscience , and said , 'Sir , you ought not thus to retort upon what my Lord Understanding hath said . 
It is evident enough that he hath spoken the truth , and that you are an enemy to Mansoul . 
Then said old Incredulity , 'Sir , if I live , I will do your errand to Diabolus , and there you shall have an answer to your words . 
Meanwhile we will seek the good of the town , and not ask counsel of you . 
Then was a silence commanded , and the old fox Incredulity began to speak . 
Then stood up all the Diabolonians that were present , and affirmed these things to be true . 
Then they on Incredulity's side would have had the two old gentlemen presently away to prison but they on the other side said they should not . 
Thus the bickerment went awhile at last they passed from words to blows , and now there were knocks on both sides . 
Mr. Anything also , he became a brisk man in the broil but both sides were against him , because he was true to none . 
Yet he had , for his malapertness , one of his legs broken , and he that did it wished it had been his neck . 
Also , when Captain Anything came halting up before him , he seemed to take but little notice of him . 
But let us return again to our story . 
Wherefore to this advice they agreed , and called a trumpeter , put words into his mouth , set him his time , and bid him God speed . 
Well , many hours were not expired before the trumpeter addressed himself to his journey . 
Wherefore , coming up to the wall of the town , he steereth his course to Ear gate , and there sounded , as he was commanded . 
In his name , therefore , I summon you again to yield up yourselves to his captains . 
At this summons the Mansoulians seemed to be at a stand , and knew not what answer to make . 
Wherefore Diabolus forthwith appeared , and took upon him to do it himself and thus he begins , but turns his speech to them of Mansoul . 
Consider , therefore , what is for your profit , and remember the immunities that I have granted you . 
'Consider , my Mansoul would thou wert as loath to leave me as I am loath to leave thee . 
Upon this speech , the town of Mansoul did again harden their hearts yet more against the captains of Shaddai . 
The thoughts of his greatness did quite quash them , and the thoughts of his holiness sunk them in despair . 
'As they called them , so they went from them yea , though they called them to the Most High . 
So they ceased that way to deal with them any more , and inclined to think of another way . 
By thus doing , we shall stop the growth of their rampant spirit for a lion may be tamed by continual molestation . 
When we went up against it , we did , according to our commission , first offer conditions of peace unto it . 
But they , great King , set light by our counsel , and would none of our reproof . 
They were for shutting their gates , and for keeping us out of the town . 
Wherefore , though we have done as we could , yet Mansoul abides in a state of rebellion against thee . 
but that the town of Mansoul may be won for thy Majesty . 
We also pray thy Majesty , for expedition in this matter , that , after their conquest , we may be at liberty to be sent about other thy gracious designs . 
The petition , thus drawn up , was sent away with haste to the King by the hand of that good man , Mr. Love to Mansoul . 
Wherefore the King called to him Emmanuel , his Son , who said , 'Here am I , my Father . 
Come now , therefore , my Son , and prepare thyself for the war , for thou shalt go to my camp at Mansoul . 
Thou shalt also there prosper and prevail , and conquer the town of Mansoul . 
Then said the King's Son , 'Thy law is within my heart I delight to do thy will . 
This is the day that I have longed for , and the work that I have waited for all this while . 
And I will now begin to plague all those that have been a plague to my town of Mansoul , and will deliver it from their hand . 
But , oh ! how ready were the high ones at court to run like lackeys to carry these tidings to the camp that was at Mansoul . 
Yea , the mountains did answer again by echo , and Diabolus himself did totter and shake . 
The first was that famous captain , the noble Captain Credence . 
His were the red colours , and Mr. Promise bare them and for a scutcheon he had the holy lamb and golden shield and he had ten thousand men at his feet . 
The second was that famous captain , the Captain Good Hope . 
His were the blue colours his standard bearer was Mr. Expectation , and for his scutcheon he had the three golden anchors and he had ten thousand men at his feet . 
The third was that valiant captain , the Captain Charity . 
The fourth was that gallant commander , the Captain Innocent . 
His standard bearer was Mr. Harmless his were the white colours , and for his scutcheon he had the three golden doves . 
The fifth was the truly loyal and well beloved captain , the Captain Patience . 
His standard bearer was Mr. Suffer Long his were the black colours , and for a scutcheon he had three arrows through the golden heart . 
These were Emmanuel's captains these their standard bearers , their colours , and their scutcheons and these the men under their command . 
So , as was said , the brave Prince took his march to go to the town of Mansoul . 
There were also some from the court that rode reformades for the love that they had to the King Shaddai , and for the happy deliverance of the town of Mansoul . 
Every one of these was made of pure gold , and these they carried with them , in the heart and body of their army , all along as they went to Mansoul . 
So they marched till they came within less than a league of the town there they lay till the first four captains came thither to acquaint them with matters . 
Besides , there were mounts cast up against it . 
The Mount Gracious was on the one side , and Mount Justice was on the other . 
Further , there were several small banks and advance grounds , as Plain Truth Hill and No Sin Banks , where many of the slings were placed against the town . 
Upon Mount Gracious were planted four , and upon Mount Justice were placed as many , and the rest were conveniently placed in several parts round about the town . 
And this he did for two reasons . 
To give notice to Mansoul that he could and would yet be gracious if they turned to him . 
And that he might leave them the more without excuse , should he destroy them , they continuing in their rebellion . 
Then he commanded , and they set the red flag upon that mount called Mount Justice . 
It was the red flag of Captain Judgment , whose scutcheon was the burning fiery furnace and this also stood waving before them in the wind for several days together . 
All this while they kept their gates shut with locks , bolts , and bars , as fast as they could . 
Their guards also were doubled , and their watch made as strong as they could . 
Diabolus also did pluck up what heart he could , to encourage the town to make resistance . 
But to return again to our purpose . 
Then said he , 'I will go down to the gates myself , and give him such an answer as I think fit . 
It is mine by right of conquest I won it in the open field and shall the prey be taken from the mighty , or the lawful captive be delivered ? . 
This town of Mansoul is mine also by their subjection . 
Now , thou art the Just One and the Holy , and shouldest do no iniquity . 
Depart , then , I pray thee , therefore , from me , and leave me to my just inheritance peaceably . 
yet he has a language proper to himself , and it is the language of the infernal cave , or black pit . 
understood him not nor did they see how he crouched and cringed while he stood before Emmanuel , their Prince . 
Yea , they all this while took him to be one of that power and force that by no means could be resisted . 
Thou pretendest that the people have accepted thee for their king , their captain , and right liege lord but that also was by the exercise of deceit and guile . 
for equity and right , then will I confess unto thee that thou hast made a lawful conquest . 
not only deluded and undone this place , but , by thy lies and fradulent carriage , hast set them against their own deliverance . 
I am therefore come to avenge the wrong that thou hast done to my Father , and to deal with thee for the blasphemies wherewith thou hast made poor Mansoul blaspheme his name . 
Yea , upon thy head , thou prince of the infernal cave , will I requite it . 
'First , for the town of Mansoul , my Father built and did fashion it with his hand . 
The palace also that is in the midst of that town , he built it for his own delight . 
This town of Mansoul , therefore , is my Father's , and that by the best of titles , and he that gainsays the truth of this must lie against his soul . 
'Secondly , O thou master of the lie , this town of Mansoul is mine . 
For that I am my Father's heir , his firstborn , and the only delight of his heart . 
I am therefore come up against thee in mine own right , even to recover mine own inheritance out of thine hand . 
But further , as I have a right and title to Mansoul by being my Father's heir , so I have also by my Father's donation . 
His it was , and he gave it me nor have I at any time offended my Father , that he should take it from me , and give it to thee . 
Nor have I been forced , by playing the bankrupt , to sell or set to sale to thee my beloved town of Mansoul . 
Mansoul is my desire , my delight , and the joy of my heart . 
Mansoul is mine by right of purchase . 
I have bought it , O Diabolus , I have bought it to myself . 
Now , it is more possible for heaven and earth to pass away than for my Father to break his word . 
So , when the time appointed was come , I gave body for body , soul for soul , life for life , blood for blood , and so redeemed my beloved Mansoul . 
Nor am I come out this day against thee , but by commandment of my Father it was he that said unto me , Go down and deliver Mansoul . 
'And now , said the golden headed Prince , 'I have a word to the town of Mansoul . 
So he proceeded and said , 'O unhappy town of Mansoul , I cannot but be touched with pity and compassion for thee . 
Thou hast accepted of Diabolus for thy king , and art become a nurse and minister of Diabolonians against thy sovereign Lord . 
Thy gates thou hast opened to him , but hast shut them fast against me thou hast given him an hearing , but hast stopped thine ears at my cry . 
He brought to thee thy destruction , and thou didst receive both him and it I am come to thee bringing salvation , but thou regardest me not . 
You have bowed and subjected yourselves to him , you have vowed and sworn yourselves to be his . 
I am merciful , Mansoul , and thou shalt find me so shut me not out of thy gates . 
'O Mansoul , neither is my commission nor inclination at all to do thee hurt . 
And this , O Mansoul , shall Diabolus know when he shall be made to follow me in chains , and when Mansoul shall rejoice to see it so . 
He hath taken Mansoul by fraud , and keeps it by violence and deceit , and I will make him bare and naked in the eyes of all observers . 
'All my words are true . 
I am mighty to save , and will deliver my Mansoul out of his hand . 
This speech was intended chiefly for Mansoul , but Mansoul would not have the hearing of it . 
and gave out a commandment throughout all his host to be ready against the time appointed . 
So he went and came to the camp to Emmanuel , and when he was come , a time was appointed to give him audience . 
I am therefore to know if your Mightiness will accept of this proposition . 
Then said Emmanuel , 'The whole is mine by gift and purchase , wherefore I will never lose one half . 
I will not , therefore , grant him , no , not the least corner of Mansoul to dwell in I will have all to myself . 
May not this small matter be granted ? Then said Emmanuel , 'No . 
He came as a wayfaring man to David , nor did he stay long with him , and yet it had like to have cost David his soul . 
I will not consent that he ever should have any harbour more there . 
Then said Mr. Loth to stoop , 'Sir , you seem to be very hard . 
'Well , sir , said Mr. Loth to stoop , 'I have one thing more to propound , and then I am got to the end of my commission . 
When Mr. Loth to stoop had heard this answer , he took his leave of Emmanuel , and departed , saying that he would carry word to his master concerning this whole affair . 
So some went and told to Emmanuel what old Ill Pause , a Diabolonian in Mansoul , had said . 
raise my siege and depart , but will assuredly take my Mansoul , and deliver it from the hand of her enemy . 
Also he would that Captain Credence should join himself with them . 
Emmanuel , moreover , gave order that Captain Good Hope and Captain Charity should draw themselves up before Eye gate . 
Then he bid that the word should be given forth , and the word was at that time , 'EMMANUEL . 
Then was an alarm sounded , and the battering rams were played , and the slings did whirl stones into the town amain , and thus the battle began . 
Now Diabolus himself did manage the townsmen in the war , and that at every gate wherefore their resistance was the more forcible , hellish , and offensive to Emmanuel . 
he made three most fierce assaults , one after another , upon Ear gate , to the shaking of the posts thereof . 
Now , Captain Conviction , going up very near to the gate , was with great force driven back , and received three wounds in the mouth . 
And those that rode reformades , they went about to encourage the captains . 
Care also was taken for Captain Conviction , that he should be healed of his wounds . 
The Prince also gave to each of them a chain of gold , and bid them yet be of good courage . 
These also had a reward from their Prince , as also had the rest of the captains , because they did valiantly round about the town . 
In this engagement several of the officers of Diabolus were slain , and some of the townsmen wounded . 
For the officers , there was one Captain Boasting slain . 
This Boasting thought that nobody could have shaken the posts of Ear gate , nor have shaken the heart of Diabolus . 
Next to him there was one Captain Secure slain this Secure used to say that the blind and lame in Mansoul were able to keep the gates of the town against Emmanuel's army . 
This Captain Secure did Captain Conviction cleave down the head with a two handed sword , when he received himself three wounds in his mouth . 
There was , moreover , one Mr. Feeling but he was no captain , but a great stickler to encourage Mansoul to rebellion . 
He received a wound in the eye by the hand of one of Boanerges' soldiers , and had by the captain himself been slain , but that he made a sudden retreat . 
Of the townsmen , there was one Love no Good he was a townsman , but a Diabolonian he also received his mortal wound in Mansoul , but he died not very soon . 
This I have taken notice of , that he was never after this able to do that mischief to Mansoul as he had done in times past . 
Also old Prejudice and Mr. Anything fled . 
Well , draw off thy forces from the town , and I will bend Mansoul to thy bow . 
I will persuade Mansoul to receive thee for their Lord and I know that they will do it the sooner when they shall understand that I am thy deputy . 
I will show them wherein they have erred , and that transgression stands in the way to life . 
I will show them the holy law unto which they must conform , even that which they have broken . 
I will press upon them the necessity of a reformation according to thy law . 
'But know thou , O Diabolus , that nothing must be regarded that thou canst propound , for nothing is done by thee but to deceive . 
But if righteousness be such a beauty spot in thine eyes now , how is it that wickedness was so closely stuck to by thee before ? But this is by the bye . 
But thou shalt not do thus with my Mansoul , O Diabolus for I do still love my Mansoul . 
'Thou talkest of subjecting of this town to good , when none desireth it at thy hands . 
'For , said he , 'we had better quite demolish the place , and leave it like a ruinous heap , than so leave it that it may be an habitation for Emmanuel . 
'Bend , therefore , said the noble Prince , 'the hottest front of the battle against Diabolus and his men . 
The word was then , 'Mansoul is won ! so they made their assault upon the town . 
Then did the Prince's trumpets sound , the captains shout , the town shake , and Diabolus retreat to his hold . 
The mount was called Mount Hear well . 
There , therefore , the Prince abode , to wit , hard by the going in at the gate . 
He commanded also that the golden slings should yet be played upon the town , especially against the castle , because for shelter thither was Diabolus retreated . 
The captains , therefore , did quickly clear that street by the use of their slings , so that way was made up to the heart of the town . 
Then did the Prince command that Captain Boanerges , Captain Conviction , and Captain Judgment , should forthwith march up the town to the old gentleman's gate . 
Battering rams they took also with them , to plant against the castle gates . 
When they were come to the house of Mr. Conscience , they knocked , and demanded entrance . 
Now , the old gentleman , not knowing as yet fully their design , kept his gates shut all the time of this fight . 
And with that the battering ram gave the gate another shake . 
This made the old gentleman tremble the more , yet durst he not but open the gate then the King's forces marched in , namely , the three brave captains mentioned before . 
Moreover , Diabolus flees before him and he hath , as you behold , made of my house a garrison against the castle where he is . 
I , for my part , have transgressed greatly , and he that is clean , it is well for him . 
But I say I have transgressed greatly in keeping silence when I should have spoken , and in perverting justice when I should have executed the same . 
Also this mighty warrior did cut three of the Lord Willbewill's officers down to the ground one was old Mr. Prejudice , he that had his crown cracked in the mutiny . 
This man was made by Lord Willbewill keeper of the Ear gate , and fell by the hand of Captain Execution . 
He also made a very great slaughter among my Lord Willbewill's soldiers , killing many that were stout and sturdy , and wounding many that for Diabolus were nimble and active . 
But all these were Diabolonians there was not a man , a native of Mansoul , hurt . 
There was also at that gate Mr. Ill Pause , of whom you have heard before . 
What shall I say ? The Diabolonians in these days lay dead in every corner , though too many yet were alive in Mansoul . 
Unto this petition he gave no answer at all , and that did trouble them yet so much the more . 
Now , all this while the captains that were in the Recorder's house were playing with the battering rams at the gates of the castle , to beat them down . 
Then were tidings sent down to Ear gate , for Emmanuel still abode there , to let him know that a way was made in at the gates of the castle of Mansoul . 
they interpreted the carriage of Emmanuel to them as did Joseph's brethren his to them , even all the quite contrary way . 
'For , thought they , 'if Emmanuel loved us , he would show it to us by word of carriage but none of these he doth , therefore Emmanuel hates us . 
Now , if Emmanuel hates us , then Mansoul shall be slain , then Mansoul shall become a dunghill . 
They knew that they had transgressed his Father's law , and that against him they had been in with Diabolus , his enemy . 
They also wished a thousand times over that he would become their Prince and Captain , and would become their protection . 
They would also one to another talk of the comeliness of his person , and how much for glory and valour he outstripped the great ones of the world . 
But , poor hearts , as to themselves , their thoughts would chance , and go upon all manner of extremes . 
Yea , through the working of them backward and forward , Mansoul became as a ball tossed , and as a rolling thing before the whirlwind . 
Now , when he was come to the castle gates , he commanded Diabolus to appear , and to surrender himself into his hands . 
But , oh ! how loath was the beast to appear ! how he stuck at it ! how he shrank ! how he cringed ! yet out he came to the Prince . 
Then Emmanuel commanded , and they took Diabolus and bound him fast in chains , the better to reserve him to the judgment that he had appointed for him . 
But Diabolus stood up to entreat for himself that Emmanuel would not send him into the deep , but suffer him to depart out of Mansoul in peace . 
Diabolus is subjected to the power of his sword , and made the object of all derision . 
The townsmen also , so many of them as saw this sight , were , as it were , while they looked , betwixt the earth and the heavens . 
Then went he from Emmanuel , and out of the midst of his camp , to inherit the parched places in a salt land , seeking rest , but finding none . 
Nor did the Prince himself as yet abide in the town of Mansoul , but in his royal pavilion in the camp , and in the midst of his Father's forces . 
So shall we be willing to be thy servants , and , if thou shalt think fit , to gather our meat under thy table . 
So the petitioner went , as was said , with his petition to the Prince and the Prince took it at his hand , but sent him away with silence . 
Now he dwelt in a very mean cottage in Mansoul , and he came at his neighbour's request . 
So they told him what they had done , and what they would do , concerning petitioning , and that they did desire of him that he would go therewith to the Prince . 
So he comes to the Prince's pavilion , as the first , and asked to speak with his Majesty . 
So word was carried to Emmanuel , and the Prince came out to the man . 
At last they saw their messenger coming back . 
So , when he was come , they asked him how he fared , what Emmanuel said , and what was become of the petition . 
But he told them that he would be silent till he came to the prison to my Lord Mayor , my Lord Willbewill , and Mr. Recorder . 
So he went forwards towards the prison house , where the men of Mansoul lay bound . 
But , oh ! what a multitude flocked after , to hear what the messenger said . 
So , when he was come , and had shown himself at the gate of the prison , my Lord Mayor himself looked as white as a clout the Recorder also did quake . 
I , for my part , can do no less but I know not what will be the end of these things . 
Now , when the prison was cleared of the throng , the prisoners among themselves began to comment upon Emmanuel's words . 
My Lord Mayor said , that the answer did not look with a rugged face but Willbewill said that it betokened evil and the Recorder , that it was a messenger of death . 
But you cannot imagine what work these people made , and what a confusion there was in Mansoul now . 
And , as I said , every one stood to it that he told his tale the rightest , and that all others but he were out . 
Nay , some of them had got this story by the end , that the Prince did intend to put Mansoul to the sword . 
And now it began to be dark , wherefore poor Mansoul was in sad perplexity all that night until the morning . 
And now did they begin to feel what were the effects of stubborn rebellion , and unlawful resistance against their Prince . 
If thou wilt slay us , we have deserved it . 
If thou wilt condemn us to the deep , we cannot but say thou art righteous . 
We cannot complain whatever thou dost , or however thou carriest it towards us . 
This petition , when drawn up , was designed to be sent to the Prince as the first . 
But who should carry it ? that was the question . 
Some said , 'Let him do it that went with the first , but others thought not good to do that , and that because he sped no better . 
Now , some were for sending him but the Recorder was by no means for that . 
And if he says so , I am sure we are lost nor can a thousand of old Good Deeds save Mansoul . 
So they sent for him , and desired him that he would a second time go with their petition to the Prince , and he readily told them he would . 
Now Mr. Desires awake , when he saw that he must go on this errand , besought that they would grant that Mr. Wet Eyes might go with him . 
Wherefore , they address themselves to their business Mr. Desires put a rope upon his head , and Mr. Wet Eyes went with his hands wringing together . 
Thus they went to the Prince's pavilion . 
Now , when they went to petition this third time , they were not without thoughts that , by often coming , they might be a burden to the Prince . 
They could , they said , have no rest day nor night because of their transgressions against Shaddai and against Emmanuel , his Son . 
Let it please thee , therefore , to incline to mercy but ask not what thy servants are . 
Good men have bad children , and the sincere do oftentimes beget hypocrites . 
My mother also called me by this name from the cradle but whether because of the moistness of my brain , or because of the softness of my heart , I cannot tell . 
I see dirt in mine own tears , and filthiness in the bottom of my prayers . 
'Now this is , and for a long time hath been , a high affront to my Father wherefore my Father sent to you a powerful army to reduce you to your obedience . 
But you know how these men , their captains and their counsels , were esteemed of you , and what they received at your hand . 
You rebelled against them , you shut your gates upon them , you bid them battle , you fought them , and fought for Diabolus against them . 
So they sent to my Father for more power , and I , with my men , are come to subdue you . 
But as you treated the servants , so you treated their Lord . 
And with that he turned himself from them , and went into his royal pavilion again . 
So the petitioners , having received this answer from the Prince , returned , as at the first , to go to their companions again . 
But they had not gone far , but thoughts began to work in their minds that no mercy as yet was intended by the Prince to Mansoul . 
where many met them , to know what answer was made to the petition . 
So away they went to the prison , with a multitude at their heels . 
And as these words were spoken , Mr. Wet Eyes gave a great sigh . 
Now , there was in the company a notable , sharp witted fellow , a mean man of estate , and his name was old Inquisitive . 
This man asked the petitioners if they had told out every whit of what Emmanuel said , and they answered , 'Verily , no . 
Then said Inquisitive , 'I thought so , indeed . 
They said also that when the Prince had commanded them thus to do , he immediately turned his back upon them , and went into his royal pavilion . 
for they concluded that to morrow , by that the sun went down , they should be tumbled out of the world . 
The whole town also counted of no other , but that , in their time and order , they must all drink of the same cup . 
Wherefore the town of Mansoul spent that night in mourning , and sackcloth and ashes . 
The prisoners also , when the time was come for them to go down before the Prince , dressed themselves in mourning attire , with ropes upon their heads . 
The whole town of Mansoul also showed themselves upon the wall , all clad in mourning weeds , if , perhaps , the Prince with the sight thereof might be moved with compassion . 
Well , the time is come that the prisoners must go down to the camp , and appear before the Prince . 
So I say , the prisoners went in the midst , and the guard went with flying colours behind and before , but the prisoners went with drooping spirits . 
Thus they went out at the gate of Mansoul , till they came into the midst of the Prince's army , the sight and glory of which did greatly heighten their affliction . 
The Prince then ascended a throne of state , and sent for the prisoners in who , when they came , did tremble before him , also they covered their faces with shame . 
Now , as they drew near to the place where he sat , they threw themselves down before him . 
Then said the Prince to the Captain Boanerges , 'Bid the prisoners stand upon their feet . 
Then they stood trembling before him , and he said , 'Are you the men that heretofore were the servants of Shaddai ? And they said , 'Yes , Lord , yes . 
So , this was done as he had commanded . 
Then the Prince called for the prisoners to come and to stand again before him , and they came and stood trembling . 
Then were their fetters broken to pieces before their faces , and cast into the air , and their steps were enlarged under them . 
So they were bid rise up , and go to the town , and tell to Mansoul what the Prince had done . 
He commanded also that one with a pipe and tabor should go and play before them all the way into the town of Mansoul . 
Then was fulfilled what they never looked for , and they were made to possess that which they never dreamed of . 
The Prince also called for the noble Captain Credence , and commanded that he and some of his officers should march before the noble men of Mansoul with flying colours into the town . 
And now was the town of Mansoul also delivered from the terror of the first four captains and their men . 
After this , they inquired yet more particularly how things went in the camp , and what message they had from Emmanuel to the town . 
So they told them all passages that had happened to them at the camp , and everything that the Prince did to them . 
This made Mansoul wonder at the wisdom and grace of the Prince Emmanuel . 
Thither , therefore , they came in their robes , and their tabrets went before them . 
Now , the eagerness of the people to know the full of the matter was great . 
Then the Recorder stood up upon his feet , and , first beckoning with his hand for silence , he read out with a loud voice the pardon . 
, they could not forbear leaping for joy . 
For this you must know , that there was conjoined herewith every man's name in Mansoul also the seals of the pardon made a brave show . 
So the bells did ring , and the people sing , and the music go in every house in Mansoul . 
He commanded also that all the captains should show themselves in all their harness , and that the soldiers should shout for joy . 
Thus have I showed you the manner and way that Emmanuel took to recover the town of Mansoul from under the hand and power of the tyrant Diabolus . 
But add to this , the handling of their arms , the managing of their weapons of war , were marvellously taking to Mansoul and me . 
Then said he , 'All peace be to you . 
Do it , Emmanuel , and thou shalt be King and Captain in Mansoul for ever . 
We shall comply with this our Lord , and with his ways , and fall in with his word against the mighty . 
'One word more , and thy servants have done , and in this will trouble our Lord no more . 
We know not the depth of the wisdom of thee , our Prince . 
Or , Lord , come to our Mansoul , do what thou wilt , so thou keepest us from sinning , and makest us serviceable to thy Majesty . 
Then said the Prince to the town of Mansoul again , 'Go , return to your houses in peace . 
Then did the men of Mansoul give a shout , and returned unto their houses in peace they also told to their kindred and friends the good that Emmanuel had promised to Mansoul . 
'And to morrow , said they , 'he will march into our town , and take up his dwelling , he and his men , in Mansoul . 
They also prepared for his coming what music the town of Mansoul would afford , that they might play before him to the palace , his habitation . 
Then he arose and entered Mansoul , he and all his servants . 
The elders of Mansoul did also go dancing before him till he came to the castle gates . 
, and word was brought that it was . 
This done , the Prince that night did lodge in the castle with his mighty captains and men of war , to the joy of the town of Mansoul . 
At last they came to this result . 
That Captain Innocency should quarter at Mr. Reason's . 
That Captain Patience should quarter at Mr. Mind's . 
This Mr. Mind was formerly the Lord Willbewill's clerk in time of the late rebellion . 
It was ordered that Captain Charity should quarter at Mr. Affection's house . 
That Captain Good Hope should quarter at my Lord Mayor's . 
And throughout the rest of the town were quartered Emmanuel's forces but Captain Credence , with his men , abode still in the castle . 
So the Prince , his captains , and his soldiers , were lodged in the town of Mansoul . 
yet that he would often visit the streets , houses , and people of Mansoul . 
that they might there see the manner of his doings , the fortifications of the place , and the royal mansion house of the Prince . 
When he spake , they all stopped their mouths and gave audience and when he walked , it was their delight to imitate him in his goings . 
And so there was dish after dish set before them , and they were commanded freely to eat . 
But still , when a fresh dish was set before them , they would whisperingly say to each other , 'What is it ? for they wist not what to call it . 
They drank also of the water that was made wine , and were very merry with him . 
There was music also all the while at the table and man did eat angels' food , and had honey given him out of the rock . 
So Mansoul did eat the food that was peculiar to the court yea , they had now thereof to the full . 
These riddles were made upon the King Shaddai himself , and upon Emmanuel his Son , and upon his wars and doings with Mansoul . 
I told you before , whom these riddles did concern and as they were opened , the people did evidently see it was so . 
And thus he dismissed the town of Mansoul . 
And when they were at home in their houses , and in their most retired places , they could not but sing of him and of his actions . 
Yea , so taken were the townsmen now with their Prince , that they would sing of him in their sleep . 
He provided also against insurrections at home , and invasions from abroad , such love had he for the famous town of Mansoul . 
He bid him also that he should build him a palace near Eye gate and that he should build it in fashion like a tower for defence . 
He bid him also that he should read in the Revelation of Mysteries all the days of his life , that he might know how to perform his office aright . 
And these were their names Alderman Atheism , Alderman Hard Heart , and Alderman False Peace . 
The burgesses were , Mr. No Truth , Mr. Pitiless , Mr. Haughty , with the like . 
These were committed to close custody , and the gaoler's name was Mr. True Man . 
This True Man was one of those that Emmanuel brought with him from his Father's court when at the first he made a war upon Diabolus in the town or Mansoul . 
Now , when the time was come , and the court set , commandment was sent to Mr. True Man , the gaoler , to bring the prisoners down to the bar . 
Then were the prisoners brought down , pinioned and chained together , as the custom of the town of Mansoul was . 
The names of the witnesses were Mr. Know All , Mr. Tell True , Mr. Hate Lies , with my Lord Willbewill and his man , if need were . 
So the prisoners were set to the bar . 
'Set Atheism to the bar , gaoler . 
So he was set to the bar . 
Then said the Clerk , 'Atheism , hold up thy hand . 
for that thou hast perniciously and doltishly taught and maintained that there is no God , and so no heed to be taken to religion . 
This thou hast done against the being , honour , and glory of the King , and against the peace and safety of the town of Mansoul . 
What sayest thou ? Art thou guilty of this indictment , or not ? ATHEISM . 
Call Mr. Know All , Mr. Tell True , and Mr. Hate Lies into the court . 
So they were called , and they appeared . 
You are sure you know him ? KNOW . 
Know him ! Yes my lord I have heretofore too often been in his company to be at this time ignorant of him . 
He is a Diabolonian , the son of a Diabolonian I knew his grandfather and his father . 
He standeth here indicted by the name of Atheism , etc . 
, and is charged that he hath maintained and taught that there is no God , and so no heed need be taken to any religion . 
What say you , the King's witnesses , to this ? Is he guilty or not ? KNOW . 
You are sure you heard him say thus ? KNOW . 
Upon mine oath , I heard him say thus . 
Then said the Clerk , 'Mr . 
Tell True , what say you to the King's judges touching the prisoner at the bar ? TELL . 
Where did you hear him say so ? TELL . 
In Blackmouth Lane and in Blasphemer's Row , and in many other places besides . 
Have you much knowledge of him ? TELL . 
I know him to be a Diabolonian , the son of a Diabolonian , and a horrible man to deny a Deity . 
His father's name was Never be good , and he had more children than this Atheism . 
I have no more to say , CLERK . 
Mr. Hate Lies , look upon the prisoner at the bar do you know him ? HATE . 
My lord , this Atheism is one of the vilest wretches that ever I came near , or had to do with in my life . 
Where did you hear him say these things ? HATE . 
In Drunkard's Row , just at Rascal Lane's End , at a house in which Mr. Impiety lived . 
Set him by , gaoler , and set Mr. Lustings to the bar . 
I have not been wont to be snubbed for my doings , but have been left to follow my will as if it were law . 
but we are concerned , and so are you now , about an indictment preferred against you . 
How say you ? Are you guilty of it , or not ? LUST . 
Crier , call upon the witnesses to stand forth and give their evidence . 
Gentlemen , you , the witnesses for the King , come in and give in your evidence for our Lord the King against the prisoner at the bar . 
Come , Mr. Know All , look upon the prisoner at the bar do you know him ? KNOW . 
Yes , my lord , I know him . 
What is his name ? KNOW . 
His name is Lustings he was the son of one Beastly , and his mother bare him in Flesh Street she was one Evil Concupiscence's daughter . 
I knew all the generation of them . 
You have heard his indictment what say you to it ? Is he guilty of the things charged against him , or not ? KNOW . 
My lord , he has , as he saith , been a great man indeed , and greater in wickedness than by pedigree more than a thousandfold . 
But what do you know of his particular actions , and especially with reference to his indictment ? KNOW . 
He has been , to my knowledge , a very filthy man . 
But where did he use to commit his wickedness ? in some private corners , or more open and shamelessly ? KNOW . 
All the town over , my lord . 
Come , Mr. Tell True , what have you to say for our Lord the King against the prisoner at the bar ? TELL . 
My lord , all that the first witness has said I know to be true , and a great deal more besides . 
Mr. Lustings , do you hear what these gentlemen say ? LUST . 
Nor was I ever so churlish , having found such sweetness in them myself , as to keep the commendations of them from others . 
Incredulity set to the bar . 
Nor have I , nor shall I , change mine opinion for fear of trouble , though you at present are possessed of place and power . 
Forget Good set to the bar . 
But let us hear what the witnesses have to say for the King against the prisoner at the bar . 
Is he guilty of this indictment , or not ? HATE . 
My lord , I have heard this Forget Good say , that he could never abide to think of goodness , no , not for a quarter of an hour . 
Where did you hear him say so ? HATE . 
In All base Lane , at a house next door to the sign of the Conscience seared with a hot iron . 
Mr. Know All , what can you say for our Lord the King against the prisoner at the bar ? KNOW . 
My lord , I know this man well . 
Where have you heard him say these words ? KNOW . 
In Flesh Lane , right opposite to the church . 
My lord , I have heard him often say he had rather think of the vilest thing than of what is contained in the Holy Scriptures . 
Where did you hear him say such grievous words ? TELL . 
Gentlemen , you have heard the indictment , his plea , and the testimony of the witnesses . 
Gaoler , set Mr. Hard Heart to the bar . 
He is set to the bar . 
What sayest thou to this indictment ? Art thou guilty , or not guilty ? HARD . 
My lord , I never knew what remorse or sorrow meant in all my life . 
I care for no man nor can I be pierced with men's griefs their groans will not enter into my heart . 
Whomsoever I mischief , whomsoever I wrong , to me it is music , when to others mourning . 
You see the man is a right Diabolonian , and has convicted himself . 
Set him by , gaoler , and set Mr. False Peace to the bar . 
False Peace set to the bar . 
Wherefore I cannot plead to this indictment , forasmuch as my name is not inserted therein and as is my true name , so are also my conditions . 
I was always a man that loved to live at quiet , and what I loved myself , that I thought others might love also . 
Then said the clerk , 'Crier , make a proclamation . 
So the Court demanded of these men if they knew the prisoner , and what they could say concerning him , 'for he stands , said they , 'upon his own vindication . 
Then said Mr. Search Truth , 'My Lord , I COURT . 
Hold ! give him his oath . 
My lord , I know and have known this man from a child , and can attest that his name is False Peace . 
Then Mr. Vouch Truth was called upon to speak what he knew of him . 
Then said Mr. Vouch Truth , 'My lord , all that the former witness hath said is true . 
Gentlemen , you have heard what these two men have sworn against the prisoner at the bar . 
And now , Mr. False Peace , to you you have denied your name to be False Peace , yet you see that these honest men have sworn that that is your name . 
All that you have pleaded for yourself is , that you have denied your name , etc . 
but here , you see , we have witnesses to prove that you are the man . 
Thy plea , therefore , has not delivered thee from what by the indictment thou art charged with , but rather it doth fasten all upon thee . 
But thou shalt have very fair play . 
Let us call the witnesses that are to testify as to matter of fact , and see what they have to say for our Lord the King against the prisoner at the bar . 
Mr. Know All , what say you for our Lord the King against the prisoner at the bar ? KNOW . 
Come , Mr. Hate Lies , what have you to say ? HATE . 
My lord , I have heard him say , that peace , though in a way of unrighteousness , is better than trouble with truth . 
Where did you hear him say this ? HATE . 
I heard him say it in Folly yard , at the house of one Mr. Simple , next door to the sign of the Self deceiver . 
Yea , he hath said this to my knowledge twenty times in that place . 
We may spare further witness this evidence is plain and full . 
Set him by , gaoler , and set Mr. No Truth to the bar . 
What sayest thou , art thou guilty of this indictment , or not ? NO . 
Not guilty , my lord . 
Then the witnesses were called , and Mr. Know All did first give in his evidence against him . 
My lord , this man was at the pulling down of the image of Shaddai yea , this is he that did it with his own hands . 
I myself stood by and saw him do it , and he did it at the commandment of Diabolus . 
Yea , this Mr. No Truth did more than this , he did also set up the horned image of the beast Diabolus in the same place . 
Who saw him do this besides yourself ? HATE . 
Mr. No Truth , how could you have the face to plead not guilty , when you were so manifestly the doer of all this wickedness ? NO . 
Sir , I thought I must say something , and as my name is , so I speak . 
I have been advantaged thereby before now , and did not know but by speaking no truth , I might have reaped the same benefit now . 
Set him by , gaoler , and set Mr. Pitiless to the bar . 
How ! do you deny your name , and say it is not Pitiless , but Cheer up ? Call for the witnesses . 
What say you , the witnesses , to this plea ? KNOW . 
My lord , his name is Pitiless so he hath written himself in all papers of concern wherein he has had to do . 
Mr. Tell True , what say you ? TELL . 
His name is Pitiless , my lord . 
Set Mr. Haughty to the bar , gaoler . 
for that thou didst most traitorously and devilishly teach the town of Mansoul to carry it loftily and stoutly against the summons that was given them by the captains of the King Shaddai . 
How sayest thou , art thou guilty of this indictment , or not ? HAUGHTY . 
I did not use to consider who was my foe , nor what the cause was in which I was engaged . 
It was enough to me if I carried it bravely , fought like a man , and came off a victor . 
This is the crime and the thing wherewith thou art charged in and by the indictment . 
But he made no answer to that . 
Now when they were shut up by themselves , they fell to discourse among themselves in order to the drawing up of their verdict . 
began 'Gentlemen , quoth he , 'for the men , the prisoners at the bar , for my part I believe that they all deserve death . 
'Very right , said Mr. True Heart 'I am wholly of your opinion . 
'Blessed be God , said Mr. Thankful , 'that the traitors are in safe custody . 
'And I join with you in this upon my bare knees , said Mr. Humble . 
'I am glad also , said Mr. Good Work . 
Then said the warm man , and true hearted Mr. Zeal for God , 'Cut them off they have been the plague , and have sought the destruction of Mansoul . 
Thus , therefore , being all agreed in their verdict , they come instantly into the Court . 
Good men and true , stand together in your verdict are you all agreed ? JURY . 
Who shall speak for you ? JURY . 
Look to your prisoners , gaoler . 
This was done in the morning , and in the afternoon they received the sentence of death according to the law . 
So an order he got , and search was made , but no such man could now be found in all the town of Mansoul . 
Nay , further , my Lord , with grief I speak it , they have been all arraigned , condemned , and , I doubt , before this executed in Mansoul . 
So they , both he and his old friend Incredulity , concluded to enter into great consultation , how they might get the town of Mansoul again . 
Now , before this time , the day was come in which the prisoners in Mansoul were to be executed . 
Proof of sincerity pleases me well let Mansoul therefore first lay their hands upon these Diabolonians to destroy them . 
So they crucified the Diabolonians that had been a plague , a grief , and an offence to the town of Mansoul . 
that he would make them another captain , and that of one of themselves . 
And that this captain should be the ruler of a thousand , for the good and benefit of the now flourishing town of Mansoul . 
So the messenger that waited upon the good Prince Emmanuel went and said as he was commanded . 
Now the young gentleman was waiting to see the captain train and muster his men in the castle yard . 
Then said Mr. Waiting to him , 'Sir , the Prince would that you should come down to his highness forthwith . 
So he brought him down to Emmanuel , and he came and made obeisance before him . 
Then the young man bowed his head and worshipped . 
'It is , said Emmanuel , 'that thou shouldest be a captain , a captain over a thousand men in my beloved town of Mansoul . 
'And let it be brought to me , said he , 'that I may set to my seal . 
So it was done as it was commanded . 
The commission was drawn up , brought to Emmanuel , and he set his seal thereto . 
Then , by the hand of Mr. Waiting , he sent it away to the captain . 
Thus Captain Experience came under command to Emmanuel , for the good of the town of Mansoul . 
He had for his lieutenant one Mr. Skilful , and for his cornet one Mr. Memory . 
His under officers I need not name . 
His colours were the white colours for the town of Mansoul and his scutcheon was the dead lion and dead bear . 
So the Prince returned to his royal palace again . 
So after a while , and some sweet communion between them , the townsmen having solemnly ended their ceremony , returned to their place again . 
And this he did without any desire of theirs , even of his own frankness and noble mind . 
So when he had sent for and seen their old one , he laid it by , and said , 'Now that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish away . 
He said , moreover , 'The town of Mansoul shall have another , a better , a new one , more steady and firm by far . 
Free , full , and everlasting forgiveness of all wrongs , injuries , and offences done by them against my Father , me , their neighbour , or themselves . 
I do give them the holy law and my testament , with all that therein is contained , for their everlasting comfort and consolation . 
I do also give them a portion of the self same grace and goodness that dwells in my Father's heart and mine . 
This privilege no other city , town , or corporation , shall have , but my Mansoul only . 
'But all Diabolonians , of what sort , birth , country , or kingdom soever , shall be debarred a share therein . 
they carried it to audience , that is , to the market place , and there Mr. Recorder read it in the presence of all the people . 
Indeed he is one with us in nature , and also as to loving of , and being faithful to , and in the eternal concerns of the town of Mansoul . 
Nor can any , as he , tell Mansoul how and what they shall do to keep themselves in the love of my Father . 
He also it is that can bring lost things to your remembrance , and that can tell you things to come . 
'This person can put life and vigour into all he says yea , and can also put it into your heart . 
This person can make seers of you , and can make you tell what shall be hereafter . 
Be therefore content with thy station . 
Thus doing , thou shalt drive from thine heart and stomach all foul , gross , and hurtful humours . 
It will also lighten thine eyes , and will strengthen thy memory for the reception and keeping of all that the King's most noble Secretary teacheth . 
into the place and office of a minister to Mansoul , and the man had thankfully accepted thereof , then did Emmanuel address himself in a particular speech to the townsmen themselves . 
These things , therefore , I would have you observe and do , for it is for your life , and the lengthening of your days . 
but for that you must wholly and solely have recourse to , and make stay upon his doctrine that is your Teacher after the first order . 
Yea , Mr. Recorder himself must not look for life from that which he himself revealeth his dependence for that must be founded in the doctrine of the other preacher . 
Remember , also , that if they be sick , they catch that disease of the town of Mansoul itself . 
Nor can you utterly rid yourselves of them , unless you should pull down the walls of your town , the which I am by no means willing you should . 
Wherever they haunt , lurk , or abide , and what terms of peace soever they offer you , abhor , and all shall be well betwixt you and me . 
These are some of the chief , O Mansoul ! of those that will seek to overthrow thee for ever . 
And take good heed that you spare not the men that you have a commission to take and crucify . 
And they , if you watch not , will do you a mischief , such an one as at present you cannot think of . 
'These , as I said , will show themselves to you in another hue than those under description before . 
Wherefore , Mansoul , watch and be sober , and suffer not thyself to be betrayed . 
So the white garments were fetched out of his treasury , and laid forth to the eyes of the people . 
Moreover , it was granted to them that they should take them and put them on , 'according , said he , 'to your size and stature . 
So the people were put into white , into fine linen , white and clean . 
Then said the Prince unto them , 'This , O Mansoul , is my livery , and the badge by which mine are known from the servants of others . 
Yea , it is that which I grant to all that are mine , and without which no man is permitted to see my face . 
Wear them , therefore , for my sake , who gave them unto you and also if you would be known by the world to be mine . 
But now ! can you think how Mansoul shone ? It was fair as the sun , clear as the moon , and terrible as an army with banners . 
'And now , said he , 'I have given you my livery , let me give you also in commandment concerning them and be sure that you take good heed to my words . 
Wear them daily , day by day , lest you should at sometimes appear to others as if you were none of mine . 
Keep them always white for if they be soiled , it is dishonour to me . 
Wherefore gird them up from the ground , and let them not lag with dust and dirt . 
Take heed that you lose them not , lest you walk naked , and they see your shame . 
Also , this is the way to cause that I may not leave you , nor forsake you while here , but may dwell in this town of Mansoul for ever . 
And now was Mansoul , and the inhabitants of it , as the signet upon Emmanuel's right hand . 
What shall I say , Mansoul has now a most excellent Prince , golden captains and men of war , weapons proved , and garments as white as snow . 
He gave them frequent visits not a day now but the elders of Mansoul must come to him , or he to them , into his palace . 
Now they must walk and talk together of all the great things that he had done , and yet further promised to do , for the town of Mansoul . 
Thus would he often do with the Lord Mayor , my Lord Willbewill , and the honest subordinate preacher Mr. Conscience , and Mr. Recorder . 
The captains , also , he would daily , yea , sometimes hourly , encourage with his presence and goodly words . 
For you must know that a smile from him upon them would put more vigour , more life , and stoutness into them , than would anything else under heaven . 
The Prince would now also feast them , and be with them continually hardly a week would pass but a banquet must be had betwixt him and them . 
Himself was not a native of it , but came with the Prince Emmanuel from the court . 
He was a great acquaintance of Captain Credence and Captain Good Hope some say they were kin , and I am of that opinion too . 
This man , as I said , was made governor of the town in general , especially over the castle , and Captain Credence was to help him there . 
And I made great observation of it , that so long as all things went in Mansoul as this sweet natured gentleman would , the town was in most happy condition . 
Now there were no jars , no chiding , no interferings , no unfaithful doings in all the town of Mansoul every man in Mansoul kept close to his own employment . 
The gentry , the officers , the soldiers , and all in place observed their order . 
And this lasted all that summer . 
Now among these there was one whose name was Mr. Self Conceit , and a notable brisk man he was , as any that in those days did possess the town of Mansoul . 
Wherefore , finding him so fit for his purpose , he preferred him , and made him next to the great Lord Willbewill , of whom we have written so much before . 
Now the Lord Willbewill being in those days very well pleased with him , and with his achievements , gave him his daughter , the Lady Fear Nothing , to wife . 
Now , of my Lady Fear nothing , did this Mr. Self Conceit beget this gentleman , Mr. Carnal Security . 
And having got some little smattering of Emmanuel's things by the end , being bold , he ventures himself into the company of the townsmen , any attempts also to chat among them . 
Now Emmanuel was yet in the town of Mansoul , and he wisely observed their doings . 
Now when Emmanuel perceived that through the policy of Mr. Carnal Security the hearts of the men of Mansoul were chilled and abated in their practical love to him , First . 
This done , he said in his heart , 'I will return to the court , and go to my place , till Mansoul shall consider and acknowledge their offence . 
And he did so , and the cause and manner of his going away from them was , that Mansoul declined him , as is manifest in these particulars . 
They left off their former way of visiting him , they came not to his royal palace as afore . 
They did not regard , nor yet take notice , that he came or came not to visit them . 
Now , the methods of his withdrawing , as I was saying before , were thus . 
Even while he was yet with them in Mansoul , he kept himself close , and more retired than formerly . 
His speech was not now , if he came in their company , so pleasant and familiar as formerly . 
Nor did he , as in times past , send to Mansoul , from his table , those dainty bits which he was wont to do . 
Nor when they came to visit him , as now and then they would , would he be so easily spoken with as they found him to be in times past . 
But thus Emmanuel carried it now , and by this his carriage he sought to make them bethink themselves , and return to him . 
Mr. God's Peace also laid down his commission , and would for the present act no longer in the town of Mansoul . 
Thus they walked contrary to him , and he again , by way of retaliation , walked contrary to them . 
The which , when Mr. Carnal Security perceived , he presently addressed himself in a speech thus to him 'Mr . 
Godly Fear , are you not well ? You seem to be ill of body or mind , or both . 
Unto whom the good old gentleman discreetly replied , 'Sir , I thank you for all things courteous and civil but for your cordial I have no list thereto . 
Then said Mr. Carnal Security , 'You want sleep , good air , I doubt . 
If you please , lie down , and take a nap , and we meanwhile will be merry . 
Then said the good man as follows 'Sir , if you were not destitute of an honest heart , you could not do as you have done and do . 
Then said Mr. Carnal Security , 'Why ? GODLY . 
Nay , pray interrupt me not . 
If any shall question the truth of my words , I will answer him by this , and suchlike questions . 
Wherefore now , while you boast , your strength is gone you are like the man that had lost his locks that before did wave about his shoulders . 
I cannot remember the day , for my part nor can I answer Mr. Godly Fear's question . 
I doubt , I am afraid that all is nought with Mansoul . 
both to the man of the house for drawing them into evil , and also to recover Emmanuel's love . 
and burned his house upon him with fire for he also was a Diabolonian by nature . 
So when this was passed and over , they bespeed themselves to look for Emmanuel their Prince and they sought him , but they found him not . 
to know of him , for he was a seer , and could tell where Emmanuel was , and how they might direct a petition to him . 
And now was it a day gloomy and dark , a day of clouds and of thick darkness with Mansoul . 
But what further it was likely to cost them they were ignorant of . 
Now Mr. Godly Fear began again to be in repute with the men of the town yea , they were ready to look upon him as a prophet . 
About this time , also , there was a great sickness in the town of Mansoul , and most of the inhabitants were greatly afflicted . 
And he desired that Captain Boanerges would preach . 
He then showed , also , by whose authority this sentence was pronounced , and that was by Shaddai himself . 
And , lastly , he showed the reasons of the point , and then concluded his sermon . 
But he was very pertinent in the application , insomuch that he made poor Mansoul tremble . 
So that now throughout the whole town , there was little or nothing to be heard or seen but sorrow , and mourning , and woe . 
Now , after sermon , they got together and consulted what was best to be done . 
'But , said the subordinate preacher , 'I will do nothing of mine own head , without advising with my neighbour Mr. Godly Fear . 
So they called and sent for Mr. Godly Fear , and he forthwith appeared . 
Then they desired that he would further show his opinion about what they had best to do . 
So he accepted of the service , and addressed himself to his journey and went and came to the court of Shaddai , whither Emmanuel the Prince of Mansoul was gone . 
But the gate was shut , and a strict watch kept thereat so that the petitioner was forced to stand without for a great while together . 
Then he desired that some would go into the Prince and tell him who stood at the gate , and what his business was . 
He also told what was the Lord Mayor's errand , both to the King and his Son Emmanuel . 
And now he began again to see what it was to be familiar with Diabolonians , such as Mr. Carnal Security was . 
But he told them his tale in so doleful a manner , that they all cried out , and mourned , and wept . 
This , therefore , was a day of rebuke and trouble , and of anguish to the town of Mansoul , and also of great distress . 
And their holes , dens , and lurking places were in , under , or about the wall of the town . 
But the town of Mansoul did not pursue this warrant , but neglected to look after , to apprehend , to secure , and to destroy these Diabolonians . 
Wherefore what do these villains but by degrees take courage to put forth their heads , and to show themselves to the inhabitants of the town . 
Now some advised one way , and some another , every man according to his own liking . 
'We may also , said some , 'let him know our intentions , and ask of him his advice in the case . 
so that through their great transgression on the one hand , and their dangerous sickness on the other , we judge they lie open to thy hand and power . 
was come with his letter to Hell Gate Hill , he knocked at the brazen gates for entrance . 
So he carried it in , and presented it to Diabolus his lord , and said , 'Tidings , my lord , from Mansoul , from our trusty friends in Mansoul . 
Then came together from all places of the den Beelzebub , Lucifer , Apollyon , with the rest of the rabblement there , to hear what news from Mansoul . 
So the letter was broken up and read , and Cerberus he stood by . 
So the bell was rung , and the princes rejoiced that Mansoul was likely to come to ruin . 
Now , the clapper of the bell went , 'The town of Mansoul is coming to dwell with us make room for the town of Mansoul . 
This bell therefore they did ring , because they did hope that they should have Mansoul again . 
We also rejoiced to hear that they are in a degenerated condition , and that they have offended their Prince , and that he is gone . 
Their sickness also pleaseth us , as does also your health , might , and strength . 
Glad also would we be , right horribly beloved , could we get this town into our clutches again . 
Nor will we be sparing of spending our wit , our cunning , our craft , and hellish inventions to bring to a wished conclusion this your brave beginning in order thereto . 
Besides , it is the law of that Prince that now they own , that if we get them a second time , they shall be ours for ever . 
'Do you , therefore , our trusty Diabolonians , yet more pry into , and endeavour to spy out the weakness of the town of Mansoul . 
We also would that you yourselves do attempt to weaken them more and more . 
All the blessings of the pit be upon you , and so we close up our letter . 
Now , when they saw that their messenger was returned safe and sound , they were greatly gladded thereat . 
Then he presented them with his letter which he had brought from Diabolus for them the which , when they had read and considered , did much augment their gladness . 
They asked him after the welfare of their friends , as how their Lord Diabolus , Lucifer , and Beelzebub did , with the rest of those of the den . 
To which this Profane made answer , 'Well , well , my lords they are well , even as well as can be in their place . 
They also , said he , 'did ring for joy at the reading of your letter , as you well perceived by this when you read it . 
And the first thing that they agreed upon was to keep all things from Mansoul as close as they could . 
'Let it not be known , let not Mansoul be acquainted with what we design against it . 
Then stood up Mr. Deceit , and said , 'My right Diabolonian friends , our lords , and the high ones of the deep dungeon , do propound unto us these three ways . 
Whether we had best to seek its ruin by making Mansoul loose and vain . 
Or whether by driving them to doubt and despair . 
Or whether by endeavouring to blow them up by the gunpowder of pride and self conceit . 
'Now , I think , if we shall tempt them to pride , that may do something and if we tempt them to wantonness , that may help . 
So to Mr. Deceit they unanimously did consent . 
And when this is done , our prince Diabolus shall prey upon them with ease yea , of themselves they shall fall into the mouth of the cater . 
Now the men could speak the language of Mansoul well . 
Mr. Mind hired Prudent Thrifty , and Mr. Godly Fear hired Good Zeal . 
We therefore are still contriving , and that to the best of our cunning , to make this work most facile and easy to your lordships , and to us . 
And of all the nations that are at your whistle , we think that an army of doubters may be the most likely to attack and overcome the town of Mansoul . 
Thus shall we overcome these enemies , else the pit shall open her mouth upon them , and desperation shall thrust them down into it . 
The name of Covetousness is changed to Prudent Thrifty , and him Mr. Mind has hired , and is almost become as bad as our friend . 
Lasciviousness has changed his name to Harmless Mirth , and he is got to be the Lord Willbewill's lackey but he has made his master very wanton . 
Nay , he has informed us since that he ran away from him , or else his old master had hanged him up for his labour . 
They will also at such a time be less able to defend themselves , and to offend you in the prosecution of our design . 
ones shall , when you shall make your furious assault without , be ready to second the business within . 
So shall we , in all likelihood , be able to put Mansoul to utter confusion , and to swallow them up before they can come to themselves . 
If your serpentine heads , most subtile dragons , and our highly esteemed lords can find out a better way than this , let us quickly know your minds . 
'To the monsters of the infernal cave , from the house of Mr. Mischief in Mansoul , by the hand of Mr. Profane . 
He carried the letter by Hell Gate Hill as afore , and conveyed it by Cerberus to his lord . 
But when Cerberus and Mr. Profane did meet , they were presently as great as beggars , and thus they fell into discourse about Mansoul , and about the project against her . 
'Ah ! old friend , quoth Cerberus , 'art thou come to Hell Gate Hill again ? By St . 
Mary , I am glad to see thee ! PROF . 
Yes , my lord , I am come again about the concerns of the town of Mansoul . 
Prithee , tell me what condition is that town of Mansoul in at present ? PROF . 
Then said the dog of Hell Gate , 'No time like this to assault them . 
Besides you may , yea , must think , when you put all things together , that there are many reasons that prevail with Diabolus to make what haste he can . 
Thou hast said as it is I am glad things are at this pass . 
Go in , my brave Profane , to my lords , they will give thee for thy welcome as good a CORANTO as the whole of this kingdom will afford . 
I have sent thy letter in already . 
Then Mr. Profane went into the den , and his lord Diabolus met him , and saluted him with , 'Welcome , my trusty servant I have been made glad with thy letter . 
The rest of the lords of the pit gave him also their salutations . 
Then Profane , after obeisance made to them all , said , 'Let Mansoul be given to my lord Diabolus , and let him be her king for ever . 
that it made the mountains about it totter , as if they would fall in pieces . 
Now , after they had read and considered the letter , they consulted what answer to return and the first that did speak to it was Lucifer . 
But whether to fall upon them on a market day , because of their cumber in business , that I would should be under debate . 
And there is more reason why this head should be debated , than why some other should because upon this will turn the whole of what we shall attempt . 
If we time not our business well , our whole project may fail . 
Our friends , the Diabolonians , say that a market day is best for then will Mansoul be most busy , and have fewest thoughts of a surprise . 
Then said the great Beelzebub , 'There is something in what my lord hath said but his conjecture may , or may not fall out . 
Nor hath my lord laid it down as that which must not be receded from for I know that he said it only to provoke to a warm debate thereabout . 
Then quoth Diabolus , 'How should we know this ? and it was answered , 'Inquire about it at the mouth of Mr. Profane . 
So Profane was called in , and asked the question , and he made his answer as follows PROF . 
I am glad that they are backward in a reformation , but yet I am afraid of their petitioning . 
However , their looseness of life is a sign that there is not much heart in what they do , and without the heart things are little worth . 
But go on , my masters I will divert you , my lords , no longer . 
When Beelzebub had ended his oration , then Apollyon did begin . 
'My opinion , said he , 'concerning this matter , is , that we go on fair and softly , not doing things in a hurry . 
I must , and that without further delay , seek , by all means I can , to fill my insatiable gulf with the soul and body of the town of Mansoul . 
Therefore lend me your heads , your hearts , and your help , now I am going to recover my town of Mansoul . 
They therefore concluded to send against Mansoul an army of sturdy doubters . 
The number thought fit to be employed in that service was between twenty and thirty thousand . 
It was also concluded , that these lords themselves should help him in the war , and that they would to that end head and manage his men . 
For you have invented for us so excellent a method for our proceeding against that rebellious people , a more effectual cannot be thought of by all the wits of hell . 
The proposals , therefore , which now , at last , you have sent us , since we saw them , we have done little else but highly approved and admired them . 
They are all stout and sturdy men , and men that of old have been accustomed to war , and that can therefore well endure the drum . 
I say , he is doing this work of his with all the possible speed he can for his heart and spirit is engaged in it . 
Yea , to be sure . 
that we then with a great deal of ease shall come upon her and overcome her . 
However , do you be ready , and when you shall hear our roaring drum without , do you be as busy to make the most horrible confusion within . 
So shall Mansoul certainly be distressed before and behind , and shall not know which way to betake herself for help . 
By the letter carrier , Mr. Profane . 
Then Mr. Profane addressed himself for his return to Mansoul , with his errand from the horrible pit to the Diabolonians that dwelt in that town . 
So he came up the stairs from the deep to the mouth of the cave where Cerberus was . 
Now when Cerberus saw him , he asked how did matters go below , about and against the town of Mansoul . 
Things go as well as we can expect . 
The letter that I carried thither was highly approved , and well liked by all my lords , and I am returning to tell our Diabolonians so . 
But does he intend to go against them himself ? PROF . 
Your wish may come to pass you look like one that has mettle enough , and my lord will have with him those that are valiant and stout . 
But my business requires haste . 
Ay , so it does . 
Speed thee to the town of Mansoul , with all the deepest mischiefs that this place can afford thee . 
And I know that my lords that are there will be glad to hear it , and to see you also . 
The which when he had heard , he made obeisance , and began to gather up his heels to run . 
They did , indeed , still send petition after petition to the Prince , but he answered all with silence . 
Yea , they began to seek their peace for they thought that , since the sickness had been so mortal in Mansoul , it was in vain to go to handygripes with them . 
Besides , the weakness of Mansoul was the strength of their enemies and the sins of Mansoul , the advantage of the Diabolonians . 
The foes of Mansoul did also now begin to promise themselves the town for a possession there was no great difference now betwixt Mansoulians and Diabolonians both seemed to be masters of Mansoul . 
Yea , the Diabolonians increased and grew , but the town of Mansoul diminished greatly . 
There were more than eleven thousand men , women , and children that died by the sickness in Mansoul . 
But now , as Shaddai would have it , there was one whose name was Mr. Prywell , a great lover of the people of Mansoul . 
For he was always a jealous man , and feared some mischief sometime would befal it , either from the Diabolonians within , or from some power without . 
And this was the way that the subordinate preacher did take to alarm the town therewith . 
Many a good meaning man is dead , and the Diabolonians of late grow stronger and stronger . 
When Mansoul heard all this , and not being able to gainsay it , they lift up their voice and wept . 
Mr. Prywell did also , in the presence of the townsmen , confirm all that their subordinate preacher had said . 
Wherefore they now set afresh to bewail their folly , and to a doubling of petitions to Shaddai and his Son . 
He told , moreover , that Diabolus did intend to bring with him the chief princes of the infernal pit , and that he would make them chief captains over his Doubters . 
Besides , said he , he remembers the affronts that Mansoul has given him , and he is resolved to be revenged of them . 
Wherefore , forthwith a diligent and impartial search was made in all houses in Mansoul , for all and all manner of Diabolonians . 
Now , in the house of Mr. Mind , and in the house of the great Lord Willbewill , were two Diabolonians found . 
In Mr. Mind's house was one Lord Covetousness found but he had changed his name to Prudent Thrifty . 
In my Lord Willbewill's house , one Lasciviousness was found but he had changed his name to Harmless Mirth . 
This good change did Mr. Prywell's intelligence make in the famous town of Mansoul . 
The fourth captain was Captain Insatiable he was captain over the faith doubters his were the red colours , Mr. Devourer bare them , and he had for a scutcheon the yawning jaws . 
These were his captains , and these were their forces , these were their standards , these were their colours , and these were their scutcheons . 
The reformades also , such as were like themselves , were made some of them captains of hundreds , and some of them captains of more . 
And thus was the army of Incredulity completed . 
So they set out at Hell Gate Hill , for there they had their rendezvous , from whence they came with a straight course upon their march toward the town of Mansoul . 
Now , as was hinted before , the town had , as Shaddai would have it , received from the mouth of Mr. Prywell the alarm of their coming before . 
Nor could those Diabolonians that were in the town do that hurt as was designed they should for Mansoul was now awake . 
This , to speak truth , was amazingly hideous to hear it frighted all men seven miles round , if they were but awake and heard it . 
The streaming of their colours was also terrible and dejecting to behold . 
he was forced to make some retreat from Mansoul , and to entrench himself and his men in the field without the reach of the slings of the town . 
Thus he began to play his game with Mansoul , and to serve it as doth the lion his prey , even to make it fall before his terror . 
be forced to do it . 
So this drummer did as commanded he arose , and did beat his drum . 
But when his drum did go , if one looked toward the town of Mansoul , 'Behold darkness and sorrow , and the light was darkened in the heaven thereof . 
No noise was ever heard upon earth more terrible , except the voice of Shaddai when he speaketh . 
But how did Mansoul tremble ! it now looked for nothing but forthwith to be swallowed up . 
'The reason of this my summons , quoth he , 'is , for that my lord is your undoubted prince and lord , as you yourselves have formerly owned . 
only now he was ill at ease and of him they begged favour in these two or three things . 
That he would look comfortably upon them , and not keep himself so much retired from them as formerly . 
Also , that he would be prevailed with to give them a hearing , while they should make known their miserable condition to him . 
But to this he told them as before , that 'as yet he was but ill at ease , and therefore could not do as he had formerly done . 
They said , moreover , that both he and his captains were cruel men , and that they were afraid of them . 
But to this he said , 'You must look to the law of the Prince , and there see what is laid upon you to do . 
So all betook themselves forthwith to their places the Captains to theirs , the Lord Mayor to his , the subordinate preacher to his , and my Lord Willbewill to his . 
The captains longed to be at some work for their prince for they delighted in warlike achievements . 
Wherefore Diabolus was forced to make another retreat , yet further off from the famous town of Mansoul . 
You know that you were mine of old . 
Nor shall any of those incivilities , wherewith you have offended me , be ever charged upon you by me , so long as the sun and moon endure . 
I need speak no more you know them , and have sometime since been much delighted in their company . 
Why , then , should we abide at such odds ? Let us renew our old acquaintance and friendship again . 
'Bear with your friend I take the liberty at this time to speak thus freely unto you . 
'I am come against you with a stout and valiant army , and all the chief princes of the den are even at the head of it . 
Besides , my captains are swifter than eagles , stronger than lions , and more greedy of prey than are the evening wolves . 
to be in a readiness to give battle to the corporation then Diabolus drew near with his army , and thus disposed of his men . 
Captain Cruel and Captain Torment , these he drew up and placed against Feel gate , and commanded them to sit down there for the war . 
And he also appointed that , if need were , Captain No Ease should come in to their relief . 
At Nose gate he placed the Captain Brimstone and Captain Sepulchre , and bid them look well to their ward , on that side of the town of Mansoul . 
But at Eye gate he placed that grim faced one , the Captain Past Hope , and there also now he did set up his terrible standard . 
Wherefore , for these causes , with others , Diabolus sought , if possible , to land up Mouth gate with dirt . 
I say , he took them , and with his own hands put them to the cross . 
Nor was this the only proof of the brave Lord Willbewill's honesty to the town , nor of his loyalty to his Prince , as will afterwards appear . 
what does he but takes them and puts them in chains , and carries them to the selfsame place where my lord hanged his two before , and there he hanged them . 
Also the townsmen and captains within , they had their hopes and their expectations heightened , believing at last the day would be theirs so they feared them the less . 
Whence he showed , that though Mansoul should be sorely put to it at the first , yet the victory should most certainly be Mansoul's at the last . 
And now there was nothing heard in the camp of Diabolus but horrible rage and blasphemy but in the town good words , prayer , and singing of psalms . 
The enemy replied with horrible objections , and the terribleness of their drum but the town made answer with the slapping of their slings , and the melodious noise of their trumpets . 
In the town , some were hurt , and some were greatly wounded . 
Now , the worst of it was , a chirurgeon was scarce in Mansoul , for that Emmanuel at present was absent . 
Howbeit , with the leaves of a tree the wounded were kept from dying yet their wounds did greatly putrefy , and some did grievously stink . 
Of the townsmen , these were wounded , namely , my Lord Reason he was wounded in the head . 
Another that was wounded was the brave Lord Mayor he was wounded in the eye . 
Another that was wounded was Mr. Mind he received his wound about the stomach . 
The honest subordinate preacher also , he received a shot not far off the heart but none of these were mortal . 
Many also of the inferior sort were not only wounded but slain outright . 
Now , in the camp of Diabolus were wounded and slain a considerable number for instance , Captain Rage , he was wounded , and so was Captain Cruel . 
Captain Damnation was made to retreat , and to intrench himself further off of Mansoul . 
Many also of the doubters were slain outright , though enough of them were left alive to make Mansoul shake and totter . 
So the next day Mansoul rested , and commanded that the bells should be rung the trumpets also joyfully sounded , and the captains shouted round the town . 
Mr. Conscience , the preacher , he also did his utmost to keep all his good documents alive upon the hearts of the people of Mansoul . 
but yet they would do it , their courage was so high their last victory also still stuck in their memories . 
Wherefore to it they went amain , and blows were hard on every side the hell drum also was beat most furiously , while the trumpets of the Prince most sweetly sounded . 
And thus the battle was joined and Captain Insatiable looked to the enemy's carriages , and waited when he should receive some prey . 
The Prince's captains fought it stoutly , beyond what indeed could be expected they should they wounded many they made the whole army of Diabolus to make a retreat . 
The Diabolonians , too , that were within , they began to be somewhat brisk , as we shall show afterward . 
they should never consent to yield Mansoul up to another . 
yet since we have been turned from darkness to light , we have also been turned from the power of Satan to God . 
Besides , we have hopes that in time deliverance will come from court unto us , and therefore we yet will maintain a war against thee . 
This brave speech of the Lord Willbewill , with that also of the Lord Mayor , did somewhat abate the boldness of Diabolus , though it kindled the fury of his rage . 
was in season , and also advantageous . 
'For now , thought the Diabolonians within , 'is our time to stir and make an uproar in the town . 
What do they therefore but quickly get themselves into a body , and fall forthwith to hurricaning in Mansoul , as if now nothing but whirlwind and tempest should be there . 
Well , Diabolus yet resolves to have the other bout with Mansoul . 
'For , thought he , 'since I beat them once , I may beat them twice . 
The word that then he did give to his officers and soldiers was Hell fire . 
there so he attempted to press forward , but the Prince's captains came down upon him , and made his entrance more difficult than he desired . 
they were overpowered with force , nor could they keep them out of the town . 
And now did the clouds hang black over Mansoul , nor to reason did anything but ruin seem to attend it . 
Diabolus also quartered his soldiers in the houses of the inhabitants of the town of Mansoul . 
Yea , the subordinate preacher's house was as full of these outlandish doubters as ever it could hold , and so was my Lord Mayor's , and my Lord Willbewill's also . 
And now did Mansoul seem to be nothing but a den of dragons , an emblem of hell , and a place of total darkness . 
Now did Mansoul lie almost like the barren wilderness nothing but nettles , briars , thorns , weeds , and stinking things seemed now to cover the face of Mansoul . 
Many did I say , yea most , if not all of them . 
And indeed he hath shown himself a man , and more of his exploits you will hear of afterwards . 
Now , a man might have walked for days together in Mansoul , and scarcely have seen one in the town that looked like a religious man . 
They , poor hearts ! had rather have had their room than their company but they were at present their captives , and their captives for the present they were forced to be . 
But , I say , they discountenanced them as much as they were able , and showed them all the dislike that they could . 
The captains also from the castle did hold them in continual play with their slings , to the chafing and fretting of the minds of the enemies . 
I have wished sometimes that that man had had the whole rule of the town of Mansoul . 
Then they said they would draw up one , and get the Lord Secretary's hand unto it . 
'And besides , said he , 'the Prince doth know my Lord Secretary's hand from all the hands in the world wherefore he cannot be deceived by any pretence whatever . 
Wherefore my advice is that you go to my Lord , and implore him to lend you his aid . 
So they heartily thanked Mr. Godly Fear , took his counsel , and did as he had bidden them . 
Let our Lord therefore , according to the wisdom of God that is in him , draw up a petition for his poor servants to our Prince Emmanuel . 
'Well , said the Lord Secretary , 'I will draw up a petition for you , and will also set my hand thereto . 
So they did heartily agree with the sentence of the Lord , and a petition was forthwith drawn up for them . 
But now , who should carry it ? that was next . 
But the Secretary advised that Captain Credence should carry it for he was a well spoken man . 
They therefore called for him , and propounded to him the business . 
We are compassed on every side , Lord our own backslidings reprove us our Diabolonians within our town fright us and the army of the angel of the bottomless pit distresses us . 
Thy grace can be our salvation , and whither to go but to thee we know not . 
Yea , even those of our captains , in whose valour we did formerly use to put most of our confidence , they are as wounded men . 
Besides , Lord , our enemies are lively , and they are strong they vaunt and boast themselves , and do threaten to part us among themselves for a booty . 
Take pity upon us , O Lord , take pity upon us , thy miserable town of Mansoul , and save us out of the hands of our enemies . 
This petition , as was touched afore , was handed by the Lord Secretary , and carried to the court by the brave and most stout Captain Credence . 
and he went and came to Emmanuel with it . 
Now how it came out , I do not know but for certain it did , and that so far as to reach the ears of Diabolus . 
Art thou yet for petitioning ? I will make thee to leave . 
Yea , he also knew who the messenger was that carried the petition to the Prince , and it made him both to fear and rage . 
Well , the drum was beat , and the Diabolonians were gathered together . 
This I give you to understand , that ye may yet know how to carry it to the wretched town of Mansoul . 
This , you see , was the charge but something stepped in betwixt that and execution , for as yet there was but little more done than to rage . 
that the gate should not be opened unto him , nor to the men that followed after him . 
He said , moreover , that Mansoul , when she had suffered awhile , should be made perfect , strengthened , settled . 
But to that Mr. Fooling said nothing . 
He hath also told us , O our enemy , that all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven to the sons of men . 
Therefore we dare not despair , but will look for , wait for , and hope for deliverance still . 
Now , by this time , Captain Credence was returned and come from the court from Emmanuel to the castle of Mansoul , and he returned to them with a packet . 
So he came up to the captain's lodgings , and saluting him , he asked him of his welfare , and what was the best news at court . 
But when he asked Captain Credence that , the water stood in his eyes . 
Then said the captain , 'Cheer up , my lord , for all will be well in time . 
And with that he first produced his packet , and laid it by but that the Lord Mayor , and the rest of the captains , took for sign of good tidings . 
So they all came up to him , and saluted him , and asked him concerning his journey , and what was the best news at the court . 
And he answered them as he had done the Lord Mayor before , that all would be well at last . 
Now , when the captain had thus saluted them , he opened his packet , and thence did draw out his several notes for those that he had sent for . 
He also signified , at the close of his letter , that he should shortly receive his reward . 
He signified , moreover , that he took it well at his hand that he called to fasting , to sackcloth , and ashes , when Mansoul was under her revolt . 
Also , that he called for the aid of the Captain Boanerges to help in so weighty a work and that shortly he also should receive his reward . 
Moreover , his Lord gave him to understand , that he still remembered his tears and mourning for the state of Mansoul . 
But it was not long after when my Lord did send for the captain again so the captain came to him , and they greeted one another with usual salutations . 
So he bowed to the ground , and thanked his Lordship , and returned and told his news to the townsfolk . 
But all this was done with all imaginable secrecy , because the foes had yet great strength in the town . 
But to return to our story again . 
So all the princes of the pit came together , and old Incredulity at the head of them , with all the captains of his army . 
So they consult what to do . 
He therefore concluded that what was done must be done by some other means . 
And the most likely means that the greatest of their heads could invent , was that which Apollyon had advised to before , namely , to get the townsmen again to sin . 
Indeed , can we but get them into the hold , and make them possessors of that , the day will be our own . 
the whole conclave was forced to be of his opinion , namely , that the way to get the castle was to get the town to sin . 
Then they fell to inventing by what means they might do this thing . 
Then Lucifer stood up , and said 'The counsel of Beelzebub is pertinent . 
What , also , if you join with them Mr. Sweet world and Mr. Present good they are men that are civil and cunning , but our true friends and helpers . 
Thus , if we get our goods and commodities thither , I reckon that the castle is more than half ours . 
Yea , these , for aught I know , may do it for us sooner than an army of twenty thousand men . 
'Meet me in the field ! quoth the Captain 'what meaneth my lord by this ? I know not what he meaneth by meeting me in the field . 
So he showed my Lord the note , and desired his opinion thereof . 
'For my part , quoth Captain Credence , 'I know not the meaning thereof . 
So he shall be before them , and thou shalt be behind them , and betwixt you both their army shall be destroyed . 
When Captain Credence heard this , away goes he to the rest of the captains , and tells them what a note he had a while since received from the hand of Emmanuel . 
'And , said he , 'that which was dark therein hath my lord the Lord Secretary expounded unto me . 
He told them , moreover , what by himself and by them must be done to answer the mind of their Lord . 
The trumpeters then did as they were commanded . 
They got themselves up to the top of the castle , and thus they began to sound . 
Then did Diabolus start , and said , 'What can be the meaning of this ? they neither sound Boot and saddle , nor Horse and away , nor a charge . 
Besides , the town would have been a pit for them rather than a place of defence , had the Prince come up and inclosed them fast therein . 
Then the captains fell on , and began roundly to front , and flank , and rear Diabolus's camp . 
Now , they left Captain Experience in the town , because he was yet ill of his wounds , which the Diabolonians had given him in the last fight . 
Wherefore he also falls on upon the Prince's army with all his deadly force so the battle was joined . 
Now when Captain Credence saw my lord engaged , he did stoutly fall on , on the other hand , upon the same company also so they put them to great disorder . 
The rest of the armies were hotly engaged , and that on every side , and the Diabolonians did fight stoutly . 
Then did my Lord Secretary command that the slings from the castle should be played and his men could throw stones at an hair's breadth . 
But no Emmanuel as yet appeared . 
Moreover , the battle did hang in doubt and they made a little retreat on both sides . 
Now , in the time of respite , Captain Credence bravely encouraged his men to stand to it and Diabolus did the like , as well as he could . 
No sooner had the captain made this speech to his soldiers , but one Mr. Speedy came post to the captain from the Prince , to tell him that Emmanuel was at hand . 
This news when the captain had received , he communicated to the other field officers , and they again to their soldiers and men of war . 
Then again they fell to it afresh and now it was but a little while more but Emmanuel and Captain Credence met , still trampling down the slain as they came . 
When the battle was over , all things came into order in the camp . 
So he smiled upon them , and said , 'Peace be to you . 
Also all the gates of the town were set open for his reception , so glad were they of his blessed return . 
And this was the manner and order of this going of his into Mansoul First . 
And they answered again , 'Who is the King of glory ? and they made return to themselves , 'The Lord , strong and mighty the Lord mighty in battle . 
Lift up your heads , O ye gates even lift them up , ye everlasting doors , etc . 
So the singers went before , the players on instruments followed after , and among them were the damsels playing on timbrels . 
they in their order waited on the Prince , as he entered into the gates of Mansoul . 
And all the while the colours were displayed , the trumpets sounded , and continual shoutings were among the soldiers . 
I am returned to Mansoul with mercies , and my name shall be set up , exalted , and magnified by it . 
He also took these inhabitants , and kissed them , and laid them in his bosom . 
Moreover , he gave to the elders of Mansoul , and to each town officer , a chain of gold and a signet . 
He also sent to their wives earrings and jewels , and bracelets , and other things . 
He also bestowed upon the true born children of Mansoul many precious things . 
Now also Mr. God's Peace took up his commission , and acted again as in former days . 
They also were buried as is afore related , to the exceeding great joy of the now famous town of Mansoul . 
They buried also their armour , their colours , banners , with the standard of Diabolus , and what else soever they could find that did but smell of a Diabolonian doubter . 
They therefore resolve to make another attempt upon the town of Mansoul , and that by an army mixed and made up partly of doubters , and partly of blood men . 
A more particular account now take of both . 
This is the land of Doubting and these that came with Diabolus to ruin the town of Mansoul are the natives of that country . 
Now of these two countries did Diabolus , by the beating of his drum , raise another army against the town of Mansoul , of five and twenty thousand strong . 
There were ten thousand doubters , and fifteen thousand blood men , and they were put under several captains for the war and old Incredulity was again made general of the army . 
But his trust he put in his blood men , for that they were all rugged villains , and he knew that they had done feats heretofore . 
Captain Cain was over two bands , namely , the zealous and the angry blood men his standard bearer bare the red colours , and his scutcheon was the murdering club . 
Captain Nimrod was captain over two bands , namely , the tyrannical and encroaching blood men his standard bearer bare the red colours , and his scutcheon was the great bloodhound . 
Captain Ishmael was captain over two bands , namely , the mocking and scorning blood men his standard bearer bare the red colours , and his scutcheon was one mocking at Abraham's Isaac . 
But these blood men , he had proved them often , and their sword did seldom return empty . 
Now Mr. Prywell , the scoutmaster general , did himself go out to spy , and he did bring Mansoul tidings of their coming . 
Wherefore they shut up their gates , and put themselves in a posture of defence against these new Diabolonians that came up against the town . 
So Diabolus brought up his army , and beleaguered the town of Mansoul the doubters were placed about Feel gate , and the blood men set down before Eye gate and Ear gate . 
True , they send to them to surrender but should they so do , that would not stench or quench the thirsts of these men . 
They must have blood , the blood of Mansoul , else they die and it is from hence that they have their name . 
Wherefore these blood men he reserved while now that they might , when all his engines proved ineffectual , as his last and sure card be played against the town of Mansoul . 
So they went and did as they were commanded the Captain Credence went and took Captain Patience , and they both secured that side of Mansoul that was besieged by the blood men . 
Then he commanded that Captain Good hope and Captain Charity , and my Lord Willbewill , should take charge of the other side of the town . 
'And I , said the Prince , 'will set my standard upon the battlements of your castle , and do you three watch against the doubters . 
This Captain Self Denial was a young man , but stout , and a townsman in Mansoul , as Captain Experience also was . 
And Emmanuel , at his second return to Mansoul , made him a captain over a thousand of the Mansoulians , for the good of the corporation . 
So , at the time appointed , betimes in the morning , the captains went out as they were commanded , against the enemies . 
Now , those that went out against the doubters drew up into a body before the plain , and marched on to bid them battle . 
Those that went out against the blood men did as they were commanded they forbore to slay any , but sought to compass them about . 
so the captains took them , and brought them to the Prince . 
Now when they were taken , had before the Prince , and examined , he found them to be of three several counties , though they all came out of one land . 
One sort of them came out of Blind man shire , and they were such as did ignorantly what they did . 
Another sort of them came out of Blind zeal shire , and they did superstitiously what they did . 
The third sort of them came out of the town of Malice , in the county of Envy , and they did what they did out of spite and implacableness . 
Very few of these could be brought to see their evil but those that did , and asked mercy , they also obtained favour . 
So they became bound each man for himself , to come in , when called upon , to answer before our Lord the King for what they had done as before . 
And thus much concerning this second army that was sent by Diabolus to overthrow Mansoul . 
, so he made them welcome , pitied their misfortune , and succoured them with the best that he had in his house . 
So they thanked him , and were glad that they had found themselves an harbour in Mansoul . 
These blood men , quoth they , 'border upon our country but , poor men ! as we hear , they were every one taken by Emmanuel's forces . 
'Ten thousand ! quoth the old gentleman 'I will promise you , that is a round company . 
But had they catched him , they would for certain have hanged him and we promise you , hanging is but a bad business . 
'Ay , said they , 'that would be well if we could see that but wishes , alas ! what are they ? and these words were spoken aloud . 
'Why ? quoth the doubters . 
And if he lighteth upon you , down you go , though your heads were made of gold . 
'And sayest thou so , my trusty ? quoth my lord . 
'Ay , quoth Diligence , 'that I do and if your lordship will be pleased to go with me , you shall find it as I have said . 
'And are they there ? quoth my lord . 
'I know Evil Questioning well , for he and I were great in the time of our apostasy but I know not now where he dwells . 
'But I do , said his man , 'and if your lordship will go , I will lead you the way to his den . 
'Go ! quoth my lord , 'that I will . 
Come , my Diligence , let us go find them out . 
So my lord and his man went together the direct way to his house . 
Now his man went before to show him his way , and they went till they came even under old Mr. Evil Questioning's wall . 
This I know , he is cunning I wish he doth not give us the slip . 
'Let me alone for that , said his servant Diligence . 
'But how shall we find the door ? quoth my lord . 
'Let me alone for that , too , said his man . 
So he had my Lord Willbewill about , and showed him the way to the door . 
Then my lord , without more ado , broke open the door , rushed into the house , and caught them all five together , even as Diligence his man had told him . 
He had also been sought for often , but no hand could ever be laid upon him till now . 
Well , the next thing was to make preparation to try these five that by my lord had been apprehended , and that were in the hands of Mr. Trueman , the gaoler . 
So the day was set , and the court called and come together , and the prisoners brought to the bar . 
But , I say , Mr. Trueman brought them in chains to the bar to the town hall , for that was the place of judgment . 
So his indictment was read the manner and form here follows . 
Thou art also here indicted for countenancing the King's enemies , after wholesome laws made to the contrary for , . 
Thou hast questioned the truth of her doctrine and state . 
In wishing that ten thousand doubters were in her . 
In receiving , in entertaining , and encouraging of her enemies , that came from their army unto thee . 
But I know him to be the man concerned , and that his proper name is Evil Questioning . 
He also asked what numbers there were of them and they told him ten thousand men . 
Further , this old Evil Questioning wished , and I heard him wish , would all the ten thousand doubters were now in Mansoul , and himself at the head of them . 
He bid them also to take heed and lie quat for if they were taken they must die , although they had heads of gold . 
Then said the court 'Mr . 
Evil Questioning , here is now another witness against you , and his testimony is full . 
He swears that you did receive these men into your house , and that you did nourish them there , though you knew that they were Diabolonians , and the King's enemies . 
He swears that you did wish ten thousand of them in Mansoul . 
He swears that you did give them advice to be quat and close , lest they were taken by the King's servants . 
All which manifesteth that thou art a Diabolonian but hadst thou been a friend to the King , thou wouldst have apprehended them . 
I might wish them to be taken , and so my wish might mean well to Mansoul , for aught that any yet knows . 
My Lord Mayor then replied 'That though it was a virtue to entertain strangers , yet it was treason to entertain the King's enemies . 
And for what else thou hast said , thou dost by words but labour to evade and defer the execution of judgment . 
Then said Evil Questioning 'I see how the game will go I must die for my name , and for my charity . 
And so he held his peace . 
Then they called the outlandish doubters to the bar , and the first of them that was arraigned was the election doubter . 
And said , moreover , 'If I must die for my religion , I trow , I shall die a martyr , and so I care the less . 
It also belied the word , and disquieted the minds of the men of Mansoul therefore by the best of laws he must die . 
And for thine abhorrence of this good doctrine , thou must die the death . 
Then said the judge 'Why , the law of the Prince is plain . 
Negatively , not of works . 
Positively , by grace you are saved . 
And thy religion settleth in and upon the works of the flesh for the works of the law are the works of the flesh . 
Thou hast despised the work of the Holy Ghost , and hast magnified the will of the flesh , and of the legal mind . 
Thou art a Diabolonian , the son of a Diabolonian and for thy Diabolonian principles thou must die . 
The court then , having proceeded thus far with them , sent out the jury , who forthwith brought them in guilty of death . 
So they were sentenced to the death of the cross . 
The names of several of them were , Mr. Fooling , Mr. Let Good Slip , Mr. Slavish Fear , Mr. No Love , Mr. Mistrust , Mr. Flesh , and Mr. Sloth . 
It was also commanded , that he should apprehend Mr. Evil Questioning's children , that he left behind him , and that they should demolish his house . 
Now the Lord Willbewill did put into execution his commission , with great Diligence , his man . 
He took Fooling in the streets , and hanged him up in Want wit Alley , over against his own house . 
He also took Mr. Let Good Slip one day as he was busy in the market , and executed him according to law . 
This man , therefore , they were willing to prefer . 
And truly my judgment is , that all those of his name and life should be served even as he . 
Many , therefore , did bend themselves to do this thing , but take him and slay him they could not , though often he was discovered . 
But my lord took Mr. Wrong Thoughts of Christ , and put him in prison , and he died there though it was long first , for he died of a lingering consumption . 
Self Love was also taken and committed to custody but there were many that were allied to him in Mansoul , so his judgment was deferred . 
But at last Mr. Self Denial stood up , and said 'If such villains as these may be winked at in Mansoul , I will lay down my commission . 
He also took him from the crowd , and had him among his soldiers , and there he was brained . 
But some in Mansoul muttered at it , though none durst speak plainly , because Emmanuel was in town . 
But this brave act of Captain Self Denial came to the Prince's ears so he sent for him , and made him a lord in Mansoul . 
My Lord Willbewill also obtained great commendations of Emmanuel , for what he had done for the town of Mansoul . 
But Mr. Unbelief was a nimble Jack him they could never lay hold of , though they attempted to do it often . 
I have also redeemed you , not only from the dread of my Father's law , but from the hand of Diabolus . 
This I have done because I loved you , and because I have set my heart upon you to do you good . 
I came to thee first by my law , then by my gospel , to awaken thee , and show thee my glory . 
And when I had gotten a complete conquest over thee , I turned it to thy advantage . 
And they are my servants , and thine , too , Mansoul . 
'Thou seest , moreover , my Mansoul , how I have passed by thy backslidings , and have healed thee . 
Nor did thy goodness fetch me again unto thee , after that I for thy transgressions have hid my face , and withdrawn my presence from thee . 
The way of backsliding was thine , but the way and means of thy recovery was mine . 
I invented the means of thy return it was I that made an hedge and a wall , when thou wast beginning to turn to things in which I delighted not . 
It was I that made thy sweet bitter , thy day night , thy smooth way thorny , and that also confounded all that sought thy destruction . 
It was I that set Mr. Godly Fear to work in Mansoul . 
It was I that stirred up thy conscience and understanding , thy will and thy affections , after thy great and woful decay . 
It was I that fetched the second time the Diabolonians out of Mansoul and it was I that overcame them , and that destroyed them before thy face . 
'And now , my Mansoul , I am returned to thee in peace , and thy transgressions against me are as if they had not been . 
Nor shall it be with thee as in former days , but I will do better for thee than at thy beginning . 
take down this famous town of Mansoul , stick and stone , to the ground . 
There shall the natives of Mansoul see all that , of which they have seen nothing here there shall they be equal to those unto whom they have been inferior here . 
'And there , O my Mansoul , thou shalt be afraid of murderers no more of Diabolonians , and their threats , no more . 
There , there shall be no more plots , nor contrivances , nor designs against thee , O my Mansoul . 
There thou shalt no more hear the evil tidings , or the noise of the Diabolonian drum . 
There thou shalt not see the Diabolonian standard bearers , nor yet behold Diabolus's standard . 
No Diabolonian mount shall be cast up against thee there nor shall there the Diabolonian standard be set up to make thee afraid . 
There thou shalt not need captains , engines , soldiers , and men of war . 
Life shall there last longer than here you are able to desire it should and yet it shall always be sweet and new , nor shall any impediment attend it for ever . 
All they will be glad in thee , and thou , when thou seest them , shalt be glad in thine heart . 
And you , O my Mansoul , shall ride upon the wings of the wind . 
They will come to convey , conduct , and bring you to that , when your eyes see more , that will be your desired haven . 
'First , I charge thee that thou dost hereafter keep more white and clean the liveries which I gave thee before my last withdrawing from thee . 
Do it , I say , for this will be thy wisdom . 
They are in themselves fine linen , but thou must keep them white and clean . 
This will be your wisdom , your honour , and will be greatly for my glory . 
When your garments are white , the world will count you mine . 
'Now , that thou mayest keep them as I bid thee , I have , as I before did tell thee , provided for thee an open fountain to wash thy garments in . 
Let not , therefore , my garments , your garments , the garments that I gave thee , be defiled or spotted by the flesh . 
Keep thy garments always white , and let thy head lack no ointment . 
Of old , the sacrifices were bound with coords to the horns of the altar . 
Consider what is said to thee , O my blessed Mansoul . 
'O my Mansoul , I have lived , I have died , I live , and will die no more for thee . 
I live , that thou mayest not die . 
Because I live , thou shalt live also . 
I reconciled thee to my Father by the blood of my cross and being reconciled , thou shalt live through me . 
I will pray for thee I will fight for thee I will yet do thee good . 
'Nothing can hurt thee but sin nothing can grieve me but sin nothing can make thee base before thy foes but sin take heed of sin , my Mansoul . 
'It is also , that yet thou mayest be made to remember what a deplorable condition thou once wast in . 
I mean when , not some , but all did dwell , not in thy walls , but in thy castle , and in thy stronghold , O Mansoul . 
but to do thee good , the which they must , if thou watch and fight against them . 
Hearken diligently to this , my Mansoul . 
'Show me , then , thy love , my Mansoul , and let not those that are within thy walls , take thy affections off from him that hath redeemed thy soul . 
Yea , let the sight of a Diabolonian heighten thy love to me . 
Love me against temptation , and I will love thee notwithstanding thine infirmities . 
'O my Mansoul , remember what my captains , my soldiers , and mine engines have done for thee . 
They have fought for thee , they have suffered by thee , they have borne much at thy hands to do thee good , O Mansoul . 
Hadst thou not had them to help thee , Diabolus had certainly made a hand of thee . 
Nourish them , therefore , my Mansoul . 
When thou dost well , they will be well when thou dost ill , they will be ill , and sick , and weak . 
Nor must thou think always to live by sense thou must live upon my word . 
Thou must believe , O my Mansoul , when I am from thee , that yet I love thee , and bear thee upon mine heart for ever . 
O my Mansoul , how have I set my heart , my love upon thee ! Watch . 
Behold , I lay none other burden upon thee , than what thou hast already . 
Hold fast , till I come . 
