Originally written in Old Norse , app . 
A. D. , by the poet and historian Snorri Sturlson . 
This electronic edition was edited , proofed , and prepared by Douglas B. Killings , April . 
PREPARER'S NOTE The Heimskringla of Snorri Sturlason is a collection of sagas concerning the various rulers of Norway , from about A. D. to the year A. D. . 
The Sagas covered in this work are the following . 
Saga of King Harald Grafeld and of Earl Hakon Son of Sigurd . 
Saga of Magnus the Good . 
Saga of Sigurd the Crusader and His Brothers Eystein and Olaf . 
Saga of Magnus the Blind and of Harald Gille . 
Saga of Sigurd , Inge , and Eystein , the Sons of Harald . 
Now , although we cannot just say what truth there may be in these , yet we have the certainty that old and wise men held them to be true . 
Thjodolf of Hvin was the skald of Harald Harfager , and he composed a poem for King Rognvald the Mountain high , which is called Ynglingatal . 
This Rognvald was a son of Olaf Geirstadalf , the brother of King Halfdan the Black . 
In this poem thirty of his forefathers are reckoned up , and the death and burial place of each are given . 
The lives and times of the Yngling race were written from Thjodolf's relation enlarged afterwards by the accounts of intelligent people . 
As to funeral rites , the earliest age is called the Age of Burning because all the dead were consumed by fire , and over their ashes were raised standing stones . 
But after Frey was buried under a cairn at Upsala , many chiefs raised cairns , as commonly as stones , to the memory of their relatives . 
But the burning of the dead continued , long after that time , to be the custom of the Swedes and Northmen . 
Iceland was occupied in the time that Harald Harfager was the King of Norway . 
, a son of Thorgils the son of Geller , was the first man in this country who wrote down in the Norse language narratives of events both old and new . 
He wrote , as he himself says , the lives and times of the kings of Norway from the report of Od Kolson , a grandson of Hal of Sida . 
The priest Are came , when seven years old , to Haukadal to Hal Thorarinson , and was there fourteen years . 
Are was twelve years of age when Bishop Isleif died , and at his death eighty years had elapsed since the fall of Olaf Trygvason . 
Hal died nine years later than Bishop Isleif , and had attained nearly the age of ninety four years . 
He had fixed his residence in Haukadal when he was thirty years of age , and he had dwelt there sixty four years , as Are tells us . 
Teit , a son of Bishop Isleif , was fostered in the house of Hal at Haukadal , and afterwards dwelt there himself . 
He taught Are the priest , and gave him information about many circumstances which Are afterwards wrote down . 
Are also got many a piece of information from Thurid , a daughter of the gode Snorre . 
But the songs seem to me most reliable if they are sung correctly , and judiciously interpreted . 
Of this saga there are other versions found in Fagrskinna and in Flateyjarbok . 
The Flateyjarbok version is to a great extent a copy of Snorre . 
The story about Halfdan's dream is found both in Fagrskinna and in Flateyjarbok . 
The probability is that both Snorre and the author of Fagrskinna must have transcribed the same original text . 
HALFDAN FIGHTS WITH GANDALF AND SIGTRYG . 
Halfdan grew up there , and soon became stout and strong and , by reason of his black hair , was called Halfdan the Black . 
When he was eighteen years old he took his kingdom in Agder , and went immediately to Vestfold , where he divided that kingdom , as before related , with his brother Olaf . 
The same autumn he went with an army to Vingulmark against King Gandalf . 
Then King Halfdan proceeded to Raumarike , and subdued it . 
Halfdan then laid the whole of Raumarike under his power . 
King Eystein's second son , King Sigtryg's brother , was also called Eystein , and was then king in Hedemark . 
As soon as Halfdan had returned to Vestfold , King Eystein went out with his army to Raumarike , and laid the whole country in subjection to him . 
BATTLE BETWEEN HALFDAN AND EYSTEIN . 
When King Halfdan heard of these disturbances in Raumarike , he again gathered his army together and went out against King Eystein . 
A battle took place between them , and Halfdan gained the victory , and Eystein fled up to Hedemark , pursued by Halfdan . 
Another battle took place , in which Halfdan was again victorious and Eystein fled northwards , up into the Dales to the herse Gudbrand . 
There he was strengthened with new people , and in winter he went towards Hedemark , and met Halfdan the Black upon a large island which lies in the Mjosen lake . 
There a great battle was fought , and many people on both sides were slain , but Halfdan won the victory . 
There fell Guthorm , the son of the herse Gudbrand , who was one of the finest men in the Uplands . 
Then Eystein fled north up the valley , and sent his relation Halvard Skalk to King Halfdan to beg for peace . 
He likewise appropriated to himself Hadeland , and thus became a mighty king . 
HALFDAN'S MARRIAGE Halfdan the Black got a wife called Ragnhild , a daughter of Harald Gulskeg , who was a king in Sogn . 
They had a son , to whom Harald gave his own name and the boy was brought up in Sogn , by his mother's father , King Harald . 
The same winter his daughter Ragnhild died and the following spring the young Harald fell sick and died at ten years of age . 
As soon as Halfdan the Black heard of his son's death , he took the road northwards to Sogn with a great force , and was well received . 
He claimed the heritage and dominion after his son and no opposition being made , he took the whole kingdom . 
Thereafter King Halfdan proceeded to his kingdom in the Uplands . 
HALFDAN'S STRIFE WITH GANDALF'S SONS . 
In autumn , King Halfdan proceeded to Vingulmark . 
The king instantly got up , ordered his men to arm themselves , and went out of the house and drew them up in battle order . 
At the same moment , Gandalf's sons , Hysing and Helsing , made their appearance with a large army . 
There was a great battle but Halfdan being overpowered by the numbers of people fled to the forest , leaving many of his men on this spot . 
His foster father , Olver Spake , fell here . 
The people now came in swarms to King Halfdan , and he advanced to seek Gandalf's sons . 
They met at Eid , near Lake Oieren , and fought there . 
Hysing and Helsing fell , and their brother Hake saved himself by flight . 
King Halfdan then took possession of the whole of Vingulmark , and Hake fled to Alfheimar . 
HALFDAN'S MARRIAGE WITH HJORT'S DAUGHTER . 
Sigurd Hjort was the name of a king in Ringerike , who was stouter and stronger than any other man , and his equal could not be seen for a handsome appearance . 
and his mother was Aslaug , a daughter of Sigurd the worm eyed , who again was a son of Ragnar Lodbrok . 
Sigurd had two children , one of whom was a daughter , called Ragnhild , then twenty years of age , and an excellent brisk girl . 
Her brother Guthorm was a youth . 
One day he rode out into the forest as usual , and when he had ridden a long way he came out at a piece of cleared land near to Hadeland . 
There the berserk Hake came against him with thirty men , and they fought . 
Sigurd Hjort fell there , after killing twelve of Hake's men and Hake himself lost one hand , and had three other wounds . 
Then they covered over a magnificent waggon , placed Ragnhild and Guthorm in it , and drove down upon the ice . 
He was buried under a mound on the banks of the lake . 
Ragnhild , who was wise and intelligent , dreamt great dreams . 
The under part of the tree was red with blood , but the stem upwards was beautifully green and the branches white as snow . 
, and asked him what his advice was about it . 
The king did so , and the following dream was revealed to him . 
These ringlets were of various colours but one ringlet surpassed all the others in beauty , lustre , and size . 
It was the opinion of people that this ringlet betokened King Olaf the Saint . 
King Halfdan was a wise man , a man of truth and uprightness who made laws , observed them himself , and obliged others to observe them . 
Queen Ragnhild gave birth to a son , and water was poured over him , and the name of Harald given him , and he soon grew stout and remarkably handsome . 
As he grew up he became very expert at all feats , and showed also a good understanding . 
He was much beloved by his mother , but less so by his father . 
A man for whom no compensation was due was a dishonored person , or an outlaw . 
HALFDAN'S MEAT VANISHES AT A FEAST King Halfdan was at a Yule feast in Hadeland , where a wonderful thing happened one Yule evening . 
When the great number of guests assembled were going to sit down to table , all the meat and all the ale disappeared from the table . 
The king sat alone very confused in mind all the others set off , each to his home , in consternation . 
The Fin sought help particularly from Harald , the king's son , and Harald begged for mercy for him , but in vain . 
Then Harald let him escape against the king's will , and accompanied the man himself . 
On their journey they came to a place where the man's chief had a great feast , and it appears they were well received there . 
Halfdan the Black was driving from a feast in Hadeland , and it so happened that his road lay over the lake called Rand . 
It was in spring , and there was a great thaw . 
Now as the king drove over it the ice broke , and King Halfdan and many with him perished . 
He was then forty years old . 
He had been one of the most fortunate kings in respect of good seasons . 
All desired to take the body with them to bury it in their own district , and they thought that those who got it would have good crops to expect . 
At last it was agreed to divide the body into four parts . 
HARALD'S STRIFE WITH HAKE AND HIS FATHER GANDALF . 
was but ten years old when he succeeded his father . 
He became a stout , strong , and comely man , and withal prudent and manly . 
His mother's brother , Guthorm , was leader of the hird , at the head of the government , and commander of the army . 
After Halfdan the Black's death , many chiefs coveted the dominions he had left . 
Among these King Gandalf was the first then Hogne and Frode , sons of Eystein , king of Hedemark and also Hogne Karuson came from Ringerike . 
When Duke Guthorm heard of this he gathered an army , and marched up the country with King Harald against Hake . 
They met in a valley , in which they fought a great battle , and King Harald was victorious and there fell King Hake and most of his people . 
The place has since been called Hakadale . 
Then King Harald and Duke Guthorm turned back , but they found King Gandalf had come to Vestfold . 
The first twenty chapters of this saga refer to Harald's youth and his conquest of Norway . 
This portion of the saga is of great importance to the Icelanders , as the settlement of their Isle was a result of Harald's wars . 
treats of the disputes between Harald's sons , of the jarls of Orkney , and of the jarls of More . 
With this saga we enter the domain of history . 
KING HARALD OVERCOMES FIVE KINGS . 
After the battle King Harald and Guthorm turned back , and went with all the men they could gather through the forests towards the Uplands . 
They set fire to both houses but King Eystein's two sons slipped out with their men , and fought for a while , until both Hogne and Frode fell . 
OF GYDA , DAUGHTER OF EIRIE . 
The king wanted her for his concubine for she was a remarkably handsome girl , but of high spirit withal . 
When they were ready , and the people followed them out , Gyda said to the messengers , Now tell to King Harald these my words . 
Then answered the king , This girl has not spoken or done so much amiss that she should be punished , but rather she should be thanked for her words . 
She has reminded me , said he , of something which it appears to me wonderful I did not think of before . 
, and duties , and domains or if not , have died in the attempt . 
Guthorm thanked the king warmly for his vow adding , that it was royal work to fulfil royal words . 
And when the people came to know this , they fled every one where he could some down the country to Orkadal , some to Gaulardal , some to the forests . 
But some begged for peace , and obtained it , on condition of joining the king and becoming his men . 
He met no opposition until he came to Orkadal . 
There a crowd of people had assembled , and he had his first battle with a king called Gryting . 
Harald won the victory , and King Gryting was made prisoner , and most of his people killed . 
He took service himself under the king , and swore fidelity to him . 
Thereafer all the people in Orkadal district went under King Harald , and became his men . 
KING HARALD S LAWS FOR LAND PROPERTY . 
It is told that Earl Hakon Grjotgardson came to King Harald from Yrjar , and brought a great crowd of men to his service . 
Then King Harald went into Gaulardal , and had a great battle , in which he slew two kings , and conquered their dominions and these were Gaulardal district and Strind district . 
He gave Earl Hakon Strind district to rule over as earl . 
King Harald then proceeded to Stjoradal , and had a third battle , in which he gained the victory , and took that district also . 
There upon the Throndhjem people assembled , and four kings met together with their troops . 
and this latter had also Eyna district . 
These four kings marched with their men against King Harald , but he won the battle and some of these kings fell , and some fled . 
In all , King Harald fought at the least eight battles , and slew eight kings , in the Throndhjem district , and laid the whole of it under him . 
North in Naumudal were two brothers , kings , Herlaug and Hrollaug and they had been for three summers raising a mound or tomb of stone and lime and of wood . 
Just as the work was finished , the brothers got the news that King Harald was coming upon them with his army . 
Now Hrollaug went to meet King Harald , gave up to him his whole kingdom , offered to enter into his service , and told him his whole proceeding . 
Before writing was in general use , this symbolical way of performing all important legal acts appears to have entered into the jurisprudence of all savage nations and according to Gibbon , chap . 
King Harald then returned to Throndhjem , where he dwelt during the winter , and always afterwards called it his home . 
He fixed here his head residence , which is called Lade . 
This winter he took to wife Asa , a daughter of Earl Hakon Grjotgardson , who then stood in great favour and honour with the king . 
In spring the king fitted out his ships . 
to be built , and had it fitted out in the most splendid way , and brought his house troops and his berserks on board . 
The forecastle men were picked men , for they had the king's banner . 
From the stem to the mid hold was called rausn , or the fore defence and there were the berserks . 
King Harald had a great army , many large ships , and many men of might followed him . 
O'er the broad heath the bowstrings twang , While high in air the arrows sang . 
The iron shower drives to flight The foeman from the bloody fight . 
The warder of great Odin's shrine , The fair haired son of Odin's line , Raises the voice which gives the cheer , First in the track of wolf or bear . 
His master voice drives them along To Hel a destined , trembling throng And Nokve's ship , with glancing sides , Must fly to the wild ocean's tides . 
Must fly before the king who leads Norse axe men on their ocean steeds . 
BATTLE AT SOLSKEL King Harald moved out with his army from Throndhjem , and went southwards to More . 
Hunthiof was the name of the king who ruled over the district of More . 
Solve Klofe was the name of his son , and both were great warriors . 
King Nokve , who ruled over Raumsdal , was the brother of Solve's mother . 
Those chiefs gathered a great force when they heard of King Harald , and came against him . 
They met at Solskel , and there was a great battle , which was gained by King Harald . 
Two kings he fought but little strife Was needed to cut short their life . 
A clang of arms by the sea shore , And the shields' sound was heard no more . 
The two kings were slain , but Solve escaped by flight and King Harald laid both districts under his power . 
He was called Ragnvald the Mighty , or the Wise and people say both names suited him well . 
King Harald came back to Throndhjem about winter . 
FALL OF KINGS ARNVID AND AUDBJORN . 
King Harald raised a great force in Throndhjem , and gave out that he would proceed to South More . 
, which King Audbjorn ruled over , to ask him to help , and join his force to King Arnvid's and his own . 
King Solve's speech was such that King Audbjorn promised his help , and gathered a great force together and went with it to King Arnvid , and they had a great army . 
Now , they got news that King Harald was come from the north , and they met within Solskel . 
And it was the custom to lash the ships together , stem to stem so it was done now . 
King Harald laid his ship against King Arnvid's , and there was the sharpest fight , and many men fell on both sides . 
Thereupon Harald boarded the ship , and King Arnvid's men tried to save themselves by flight , and he himself was slain in his ship . 
King Audbjorn also fell but Solve fled . 
So says Hornklofe Against the hero's shield in vain The arrow storm fierce pours its rain . 
Solve became afterwards a great sea king , and often did great damage in King Harald's dominions . 
KING VEMUND BURNT TO DEATH . 
King Harald subdued South More but Vemund , King Audbjorn's brother , still had Firdafylke . 
It was now late in harvest , and King Harald's men gave him the counsel not to proceed south wards round Stad . 
Then King Harald set Earl Ragnvald over South and North More and also Raumsdal , and he had many people about him . 
King Harald returned to Throndhjem . 
Ragnvald went over Eid , and southwards to the Fjord district . 
There he heard news of King Vemund , and came by night to a place called Naustdal , where King Vemund was living in guest quarters . 
Earl Ragnvald surrounded the house in which they were quartered , and burnt the king in it , together with ninety men . 
The came Berdlukare to Earl Ragnvald with a complete armed long ship , and they both returned to More . 
The earl took all the ships Vemund had , and all the goods he could get hold of . 
Berdlukare proceeded north to Throndhjem to King Harald , and became his man and dreadful berserk he was . 
DEATH OF EARLS HAKON , AND ATLE MJOVE . 
King Harald went southwards with his fleet along the coast , and subdued Firdafylke . 
Then he sailed eastward along the land until he came to Vik but he left Earl Hakon Grjotgardson behind , and set him over the Fjord district . 
Earl Atle sent word that he would keep both Sogn district and Gaular district , until he met King Harald . 
The two earls quarreled about this so long , that both gathered troops . 
So says Eyvind Skaldaspiller He who stood a rooted oak , Unshaken by the swordsman's stroke , Amidst the whiz of arrows slain , Has fallen upon Fjalar's plain . 
There , by the ocean's rocky shore , The waves are stained with the red gore Of stout Earl Hakon Grjotgard's son , And of brave warriors many a one . 
HARALD AND THE SWEDISH KING EIRIK . 
King Harald came with his fleet eastward to Viken and landed at Tunsberg , which was then a trading town . 
He had then been four years in Throndhjem , and in all that time had not been in Viken . 
Over this country he had set an earl , by name Hrane Gauzke , who had the earldom between Svinasund and the Gaut river , and was a mighty earl . 
In all these districts many chiefs , and many other people , had given obedience to the Swedish king . 
King Harald was very angry at this , and summoned the bondes to a Thing at Fold , where he laid an accusation against them for treason towards him . 
Some bondes defended themselves from the accusation , some paid fines , some were punished . 
He went thus through the whole district during the summer , and in harvest he did the same in Raumarike , and laid the two districts under his power . 
Towards winter he heard that Eirik king of Sweden was , with his court , going about in Vermaland in guest quarters . 
HARALD AT A FEAST OF THE PEASANT AKE . 
King Harald takes his way across the Eid forest eastward , and comes out in Vermaland , where he also orders feasts to be prepared for himself . 
There was a man by name Ake , who was the greatest of the bondes of Vermaland , very rich , and at that time very aged . 
He sent men to King Harald , and invited him to a feast , and the king promised to come on the day appointed . 
Ake invited also King Eirik to a feast , and appointed the same day . 
The new hall he had hung with new hangings , but the old had only its old ornaments . 
Now when the kings came to the feast , King Eirik with his court was taken into the old hall but Harald with his followers into the new . 
Ake the bonde had formerly been King Halfdan the Black s man . 
I give him to thee now for thy service . 
The king thanked him with many agreeable words for his friendly entertainment , and promised him his full friendship in return . 
Then Ake brought out great presents , which he gave to the king , and they gave each other thereafter the parting kiss . 
Ake went next to the Swedish king , who was dressed and ready for the road , but not in the best humour . 
Ake gave to him also good and valuable gifts but the king answered only with few words , and mounted his horse . 
Ake followed the king on the road and talked with him . 
And as to my being thy man , thou art just as much my man . 
On this the king out with his sword , and gave Ake his deathwound . 
King Harald was ready now also to mount his horse , and desired that Ake should be called . 
The people went to seek him and some ran up the road that King Eirik had taken , and found Ake there dead . 
They came back , and told the news to King Harald , and he bids his men to be up , and avenge Ake the bonde . 
And away rode he and his men the way King Eirik had taken , until they came in sight of each other . 
Each for himself rode as hard as he could , until Eirik came into the wood which divides Gautland and Vermaland . 
There King Harald wheels about , and returns to Vermaland , and lays the country under him , and kills King Eirik's men wheresoever he can find them . 
In winter King Harald returned to Raumarike , and dwelt there a while . 
King Harald went out in winter to his ships at Tunsberg , rigged them , and sailed away eastward over the fiord , and subjected all Vingulmark to his dominion . 
All winter he was out with his ships , and marauded in Ranrike so says Thorbjorn Hornklofe The Norseman's king is on the sea , Tho' bitter wintry cold it be . 
On the wild waves his Yule keeps he . 
When our brisk king can get his way , He'll no more by the fireside stay Than the young sun he makes us play The game of the bright sun god Frey . 
But the soft Swede loves well the fire The well stuffed couch , the doway glove , And from the hearth seat will not move . 
The Gautlanders gathered people together all over the country . 
In spring , when the ice was breaking up , the Gautlanders drove stakes into the Gaut river to hinder King Harald with his ships from coming to the land . 
Afterwards the Gautlanders came down to the strand with a great army , and gave battle to King Harald , and great was the fall of men . 
But it was King Harald who gained the day . 
King Harald went far and wide through Gautland , and many were the battles he fought there on both sides of the river , and in general he was victorious . 
In one of these battles fell Hrane Gauzke and then the king took his whole land north of the river and west of the Veneren , and also Vermaland . 
And after he turned back there from , he set Duke Guthorm as chief to defend the country , and left a great force with him . 
King Harald himself went first to the Uplands , where he remained a while , and then proceeded northwards over the Dovrefjeld to Throndhjem , where he dwelt for a long time . 
Harald began to have children . 
By Asa he had four sons . 
Halfdan the Black and Halfdan the White were twins . 
They were all brought up in Throndhjem with all honour . 
The whole met together north of Jadar , and went into Hafersfjord , where King Harald was waiting with his forces . 
A great battle began , which was both hard and long but at last King Harald gained the day . 
There King Eirik fell , and King Sulke , with his brother Earl Sote . 
Then King Kjotve fled to a little isle outside , on which there was a good place of strength . 
Thereafter all his men fled , some to their ships , some up to the land and the latter ran southwards over the country of Jadar . 
So says Hornklofe , viz . 
Howling like wolves and clanking jar Of many a mail clad man of war . 
Thus the foe came but our brave king Taught them to fly as fast again . 
For when he saw their force come o'er , He launched his war ships from the shore . 
On the deep sea he launched his fleet And boldly rowed the foe to meet . 
Fierce was the shock , and loud the clang Of shields , until the fierce Haklang , The foeman's famous berserk , fell . 
The snekke was the cutter or smaller war ship . 
L. The shields were hung over the side rails of the ships . 
The wolf skin pelts were nearly as good as armour against the sword . 
HARALD SUPREME SOVEREIGN IN NORWAY . 
After this battle King Harald met no opposition in Norway , for all his opponents and greatest enemies were cut off . 
But some , and they were a great multitude , fled out of the country , and thereby great districts were peopled . 
Jemtaland and Helsingjaland were peopled then , although some Norwegians had already set up their habitation there . 
In the discontent that King Harald seized on the lands of Norway , the out countries of Iceland and the Farey Isles were discovered and peopled . 
and many men left Norway , flying the country on account of King Harald , and went on viking cruises into the West sea . 
In winter they were in the Orkney Islands and Hebrides but marauded in summer in Norway , and did great damage . 
Many , however , were the mighty men who took service under King Harald , and became his men , and dwelt in the land with him . 
HARALD'S MARRIAGE AND HIS CHILDREN . 
And these were their children Alof she was the eldest then was their son Hrorek then Sigtryg , Frode , and Thorgils . 
King Harald had many wives and many children . 
Among them he had one wife , who was called Ragnhild the Mighty , a daughter of King Eirik , from Jutland and by her he had a son , Eirik Blood axe . 
He was also married to Svanhild , a daughter of Earl Eystein and their sons were Olaf Geirstadaalf , Bjorn and Ragnar Rykkil . 
Lastly , King Harald married Ashild , a daughter of Hring Dagson , up in Ringerike and their children were , Dag , Hring , Gudrod Skiria , and Ingigerd . 
It is told that King Harald put away nine wives when he married Ragnhild the Mighty . 
So says Hornklofe Harald , of noblest race the head , A Danish wife took to his bed And out of doors nine wives he thrust , The mothers of the princes first . 
Who 'mong Holmrygians hold command , And those who rule in Hordaland . 
And then he packed from out the place The children born of Holge's race . 
King Harald's children were all fostered and brought up by their relations on the mother's side . 
Guthorm the Duke had poured water over King Harald's eldest son and had given him his own name . 
Guthorm ruled the whole land in Viken and the Uplands , when King Harald was absent . 
KING HARALD'S VOYAGE TO THE WEST . 
Wheresoever the vikings heard of him they all took to flight , and most of them out into the open ocean . 
At last the king grew weary of this work , and therefore one summer he sailed with his fleet right out into the West sea . 
, and he slew all the vikings who could not save themselves by flight . 
Then King Harald sailed southwards , to the Orkney Islands , and cleared them all of vikings . 
, plundered there , and slew many vikings who formerly had had men at arms under them . 
Many a battle was fought , and King Harald was always victorious . 
He then plundered far and wide in Scotland itself , and had a battle there . 
So says Hornklofe The wise , the noble king , great Whose hand so freely scatters gold , Led many a northern shield to war Against the town upon the shore . 
The wolves soon gathered on the sand Of that sea shore for Harald's hand The Scottish army drove away , And on the coast left wolves a prey . 
His son Guthorm ruled over these countries for about a year thereafter , and died without children . 
Many vikings , both Danes and Northmen , set themselves down then in those countries . 
Skerries are the uninhabited dry or halt tide rocks of a coast . 
HARALD HAS HIS HAIR CLIPPED . 
After King Harald had subdued the whole land , he was one day at a feast in More , given by Earl Ragnvald . 
Then King Harald went into a bath , and had his hair dressed . 
and all who saw him agreed that there was the greatest truth in the surname , for he had the most beautiful and abundant head of hair . 
ROLF GANGER DRIVEN INTO BANISHMENT . 
Earl Ragnvald was King Harald's dearest friend , and the king had the greatest regard for him . 
He was married to Hild , a daughter of Rolf Nefia , and their sons were Rolf and Thorer . 
He plundered much in the East sea . 
One summer , as he was coming from the eastward on a viking's expedition to the coast of Viken , he landed there and made a cattle foray . 
The king assembled a Thing , and had Rolf declared an outlaw over all Norway . 
When Rolf's mother , Hild heard of it she hastened to the king , and entreated peace for Rolf but the king was so enraged that here entreaty was of no avail . 
From Rolf Ganger also are descended the earls in Normandy . 
OF THE FIN SVASE AND KING HARALD . 
King Harald , one winter , went about in guest quarters in the Uplands , and had ordered a Christmas feast to be prepared for him at the farm Thoptar . 
On Christmas eve came Svase to the door , just as the king went to table , and sent a message to the king to ask if he would go out with him . 
The king was angry at such a message , and the man who had brought it in took out with him a reply of the king's displeasure . 
Now the king went out , and promised to go with him , and went over the ridge to his hut , although some of his men dissuaded him . 
There stood Snaefrid , the daughter of Svase , a most beautiful girl and she filled a cup of mead for the king . 
But he took hold both of the cup and of her hand . 
Immediately it was as if a hot fire went through his body and he wanted that very night to take her to his bed . 
But Svase said that should not be unless by main force , if he did not first make her his lawful wife . 
Now King Harald made Snaefrid his lawful wife , and loved her so passionately that he forgot his kingdom , and all that belonged to his high dignity . 
They had four sons the one was Sigurd Hrise the others Halfdan Haleg , Gudrod Ljome and Ragnvald Rettilbeine . 
Thereafter Snaefrid died but her corpse never changed , but was as fresh and red as when she lived . 
The king sat always beside her , and thought she would come to life again . 
And so it went on for three years that he was sorrowing over her death , and the people over his delusion . 
It would be more suitable to raise her , and change her dress . 
Now the king came to his understanding again , threw the madness out of his mind , and after that day ruled his kingdom as before . 
He was strengthened and made joyful by his subjects , and his subjects by him and the country by both . 
OF THJODOLF OF HVIN , THE SKALD . 
And so they went , and came to the king's house late in the evening , and sat down together unnoticed near the door . 
The king walked up and down the floor casting his eye along the benches for he had a feast in the house , and the mead was just mixed . 
Thjodolf then took off his hat , and the king recognised him , and gave him a friendly reception . 
They grew up to be very clever men , very expert in all exercises . 
In these times King Harald sat in peace in the land , and the land enjoyed quietness and good crops . 
OF EARL TORFEINAR'S OBTAINING ORKNEY . 
Then Earl Hallad grew tired of the business , resigned his earldom , took up again his rights as an allodial owner , and afterwards returned eastward into Norway . 
When Earl Ragnvald heard of this he was ill pleased with Hallad , and said his son were very unlike their ancestors . 
Earl Ragnvald gave Einar a vessel completely equipped , and he sailed with it into the West sea in harvest . 
When he came to the Orkney Isles , two vikings , Thorer Treskeg and Kalf Skurfa , were in his way with two vessels . 
He attacked them instantly , gained the battle , and slew the two vikings . 
Then this was sung Then gave he Treskeg to the trolls , Torfeinar slew Skurfa . 
He was called Torfeinar , because he cut peat for fuel , there being no firewood , as in Orkney there are no woods . 
He afterwards was earl over the islands , and was a mighty man . 
He was ugly , and blind of an eye , yet very sharp sighted withal . 
Duke Guthorm dwelt principally at Tunsberg , and governed the whole of Viken when the king was not there . 
He defended the land , which , at that time , was much plundered by the vikings . 
There were disturbances also up in Gautland as long as King Eirik Eymundson lived but he died when King Harald Harfager had been ten years king of all Norway . 
After Eirik , his son Bjorn was king of Svithjod for fifty years . 
He was father of Eirik the Victorious , and of Olaf the father of Styrbjorn . 
Guthorm died on a bed of sickness at Tunsberg , and King Harald gave his son Guthorm the government of that part of his dominions and made him chief of it . 
EARL RAGNVALD BURNT IN HIS HOUSE . 
When King Harald was forty years of age many of his sons were well advanced , and indeed they all came early to strength and manhood . 
Thereafter Halfdan took three long ships , and fitted them out , and sailed into the West sea but Gudrod set himself down in the land which Ragnvald formerly had . 
Now when King Harald heard this he set out with a great force against Gudrod , who had no other way left but to surrender , and he was sent to Agder . 
King Harald then set Earl Ragnvald's son Thorer over More , and gave him his daughter Alof , called Arbot , in marriage . 
Earl Thorer , called the Silent , got the same territory his father Earl Ragnvald had possessed . 
Halfdan Haleg came very unexpectedly to Orkney , and Earl Einar immediately fled but came back soon after about harvest time , unnoticed by Halfdan . 
They met and after a short battle Halfdan fled the same night . 
Einar and his men lay all night without tents , and when it was light in the morning they searched the whole island and killed every man they could lay hold of . 
Then Einar said What is that I see upon the isle of Rinansey ? Is it a man or a bird ? Sometimes it raises itself up , and sometimes lies down again . 
They went to it , and found it was Halfdan Haleg , and took him prisoner . 
Einar then sang For Ragnvald's death my sword is red Of vengeance it cannot be said That Einar's share is left unsped . 
So now , brave boys , let's raise a mound , Heap stones and gravel on the ground O'er Halfdan's corpse this is the way We Norsemen our scat duties pay . 
Then Earl Einar took possession of the Orkney Isles as before . 
Now when these tidings came to Norway , Halfdan's brothers took it much to heart , and thought that his death demanded vengeance and many were of the same opinion . 
A nobler deed on Harald's shield The arm of one who ne'er will yield Has left a scar . 
As the bondes thought this was too heavy for them to pay , the earl offered to pay the whole if they would surrender their udal lands to him . 
This they all agreed to do the poor because they had but little pieces of land the rich because they could redeem their udal rights again when they liked . 
Thus the earl paid the whole fine to the king , who returned in harvest to Norway . 
The earls for a long time afterwards possessed all the udal lands in Orkney , until Sigurd son of Hlodver gave back the udal rights . 
DEATH OF GUTHORM AND HALFDAN THE WHITE . 
When he lay there Solve Klofe came upon him , and immediately gave him battle , and Guthorm fell . 
Halfdan the White and Halfdan the Black went out on an expedition , and plundered in the East sea , and had a battle in Eistland , where Halfdan the White fell . 
Eirik , Harald's son , was fostered in the house of the herse Thorer , son of Hroald , in the Fjord district . 
He was the most beloved and honoured by King Harald of all his sons . 
He then sailed out into the West sea and plundered in Scotland , Bretland , Ireland , and Valland , and passed four years more in this way . 
Then he sailed north to Finmark , and all the way to Bjarmaland , where he had many a battle , and won many a victory . 
When he came back to Finmark , his men found a girl in a Lapland hut , whose equal for beauty they never had seen . 
She said her name was Gunhild , and that her father dwelt in Halogaland , and was called Ozur Tote . 
I am here , she said , to learn sorcery from two of the most knowing Fins in all Finmark , who are now out hunting . 
They both want me in marriage . 
They hit whatever they take aim at , and thus kill every man who comes near them . 
When they are angry the very earth turns away in terror , and whatever living thing they look upon then falls dead . 
Now ye must not come in their way but I will hide you here in the hut , and ye must try to get them killed . 
Shortly after the Fins came home , and asked who had been there and she answered , Nobody has been here . 
That is wonderful , said they , we followed the traces close to the hut , and can find none after that . 
Then they kindled a fire , and made ready their meat , and Gunhild prepared her bed . 
It had so happened that Gunhild had slept the three nights before , but the Fins had watched the one upon the other , being jealous of each other . 
Now , she said to the Fins , come here , and lie down one on each side of me . 
On which they were very glad to do so . 
She laid an arm round the neck of each and they went to sleep directly . 
She roused them up but they fell to sleep again instantly , and so soundly the she scarcely could waken them . 
She even raised them up in the bed , and still they slept . 
They run forth with their weapons , kill the two Fins , and drag them out of the hut . 
That same night came such a dreadful thunder storm that the could not stir . 
Next morning they came to the ship , taking Gunhild with them , and presented her to Eirik . 
Eirik and his followers then sailed southwards to Halogaland and he sent word to Ozur Tote , the girl's father , to meet him . 
Eirik said he would take his daughter in marriage , to which Ozur Tote consented , and Eirik took Gunhild and went southwards with her . 
When King Harald was fifty years of age many of his sons were grown up , and some were dead . 
Many of them committed acts of great violence in the country , and were in discord among themselves . 
They drove some of the king's earls out of their properties , and even killed some of them . 
Then the king called together a numerous Thing in the south part of the country , and summoned to it all the people of the Uplands . 
And he divided the country among them thus Vingulmark , Raumarike , Vestfold and Thelamark , he bestowed on Olaf , Bjorn , Sigtryg , Frode , and Thorgils . 
Hedemark and Gudbrandsdal he gave to Dag , Hring , and Ragnar . 
To Snaefrid's sons he gave Ringerike , Hadeland , Thoten , and the lands thereto belonging . 
His son Guthorm , as before mentioned , he had set over the country from Glommen to Svinasund and Ranrike . 
He had set him to defend the country to the East , as before has been written . 
King Harald himself generally dwelt in the middle of the country , and Hrorek and Gudrod were generally with his court , and had great estates in Hordaland and in Sogn . 
King Eirik was also with his father King Harald and the king loved and regarded him the most of all his sons , and gave him Halogaland and North More , and Raumsdal . 
North in Throndhjem he gave Halfdan the Black , Halfdan the White , and Sigrod land to rule over . 
His king's seat each of his sons wanted for himself after his death , but he himself destined it for Eirik . 
The Throndhjem people wanted Halfdan the Black to succeed to it . 
The people of Viken , and the Uplands , wanted those under whom they lived . 
And thereupon new quarrels arose among the brothers and because they thought their dominions too little , they drove about in piratical expeditions . 
In this way , as before related , Guthorm fell at the mouth of the Gaut river , slain by Solve Klofe upon which Olaf took the kingdom he had possessed . 
Halfdan the White fell in Eistland , Halfdan Haleg in Orkney . 
King Harald gave ships of war to Thorgils and Frode , with which they went westward on a viking cruise , and plundered in Scotland , Ireland , and Bretland . 
They were the first of the Northmen who took Dublin . 
It is said that Frode got poisoned drink there but Thorgils was a long time king over Dublin , until he fell into a snare of the Irish , and was killed . 
Eirik Blood axe expected to be head king over all his brothers and King Harald intended he should be so and the father and son lived long together . 
Ragnvald Rettilbeine governed Hadaland , and allowed himself to be instructed in the arts of witchcraft , and became an area warlock . 
Now King Harald was a hater of all witchcraft . 
Gudrod Ljome was in winter on a friendly visit to his foster father Thjodolf in Hvin , and had a well manned ship , with which he wanted to go north to Rogaland . 
It was blowing a heavy storm at the time but Gudrod was bent on sailing , and would not consent to wait . 
Gudrod set off in spite of what Thjodolf could say and when they came off the Jadar the vessel sunk with them , and all on board were lost . 
King Harald's son , Bjorn , ruled over Vestfold at that time , and generally lived at Tunsberg , and went but little on war expeditions . 
Tunsberg at that time was much frequented by merchant vessels , both from Viken and the north country , and also from the south , from Denmark , and Saxland . 
Bjorn was a man of sense and understanding , and promised to become a good ruler . 
He made a good and suitable marriage , and had a son by his wife , who was named Gudrod . 
Eirik again wanted provisions , tents , and liquor . 
The brothers quarrelled about this but Eirik got nothing and left the town . 
Bjorn went also out of the town towards evening up to Saeheim . 
In the night Eirik came back after Bjorn , and came to Saeheim just as Bjorn and his men were seated at table drinking . 
Eirik surrounded the house in which they were but Bjorn with his men went out and fought . 
Bjorn , and many men with him , fell . 
Eirik , on the other hand , got a great booty , and proceeded northwards . 
King Bjorn lies in the mound of Farmanshaug at Saeheim . 
With this news Eirik came to King Harald , who was very wroth at it , and assembled a great force against the Throndhjem people . 
When Halfdan the Black heard this he levied ships and men , so that he had a great force , and proceeded with it to Stad , within Thorsbjerg . 
King Harald lay with his men at Reinsletta . 
Guthorm was a great skald , and had once composed a song both about the father and the son , for which they had offered him a reward . 
But he would take nothing but only asked that , some day or other , they should grant him any request he should make , which they promised to do . 
Now he presented himself to King Harald , brought words of peace between them , and made the request to them both that they shou d be reconciled . 
So highly did the king esteem him , that in consequence of his request they were reconciled . 
I know that Harald Fairhair Knew the dark deed of Halfdan . 
To Harald Halfdan seemed Angry and cruel . 
BIRTH OF HAKON THE GOOD . 
After Hakon's death his son Sigurd succeeded to his power in Throndhjem , and was the earl , and had his mansion at Hlader . 
King Harald's sons , Halfdan the Black and Sigrod , who had been before in the house of his father Earl Hakon , continued to be brought up in his house . 
The sons of Harald and Sigurd were about the same age . 
When Harald was seventy years of age he begat a son with a girl called Thora Mosterstang , because her family came from Moster . 
of Hordaland and was moreover a very stout and remarkably handsome girl . 
She was called the king's servant girl for at that time many were subject to service to the king who were of good birth , both men and women . 
Then it was the custom , with people of consideration , to choose with great care the man who should pour water over their children , and give them a name . 
Earl Sigurd poured water over him , and called him Hakon , after his own father , Hakon earl of Hlader . 
The boy soon grew handsome , large in size , and very like his father King Harald . 
King Harald let him follow his mother , and they were both in the king's house as long as he was an infant . 
KING ATHELSTAN'S MESSAGE At this time a king called Aethelstan had taken the Kingdom of England . 
He was called victorious and faithful . 
The ambassador presented the sword hilt to the king , saying , Here is a sword which King Athelstan sends thee , with the request that thou wilt accept it . 
King Harald saw now that this was an insult , for he would be subject to no man . 
But he remembered it was his rule , whenever anything raised his anger , to collect himself , and let his passion run off , and then take the matter into consideration coolly . 
Now he did so , and consulted his friends , who all gave him the advice to let the ambassadors , in the first place , go home in safety . 
The following summer King Harald sent a ship westward to England , and gave the command of it to Hauk Habrok . 
He was a great warrior , and very dear to the king . 
Into his hands he gave his son Hakon . 
Hank proceeded westward tn England , and found King Athelstan in London , where there was just at the time a great feast and entertainment . 
Then they went into the hall , thirty in number . 
Hauk went up to the king and saluted him , and the king bade him welcome . 
Then Hauk took the child Hakon , and set it on the king's knee . 
The king looks at the boy , and asks Hauk what the meaning of this is . 
Hauk replies , Herald the king bids thee foster his servant girl's child . 
The king was in great anger , and seized a sword which lay beside him , and drew it , as if he was going to kill the child . 
The king was highly pleased with this for it is the common observation of all people , that the man who fosters another's children is of less consideration than the other . 
HAKON , THE FOSTER SON OF ATHELSTAN , IS BAPTIZED . 
He was henceforth called Athelstan's foster son . 
He was an accomplished skald , and he was larger , stronger and more beautiful than other men he was a man of understanding and eloquence , and also a good Christian . 
Better sword never came into Norway , and Hakon carried it to his dying day . 
Quern is the name of the small hand mill stones still found in use among the cottars in Orkney , Shetland , and the Hebrides . 
This sword is mentioned in the Younger Edda . 
There were many excellent swords in the olden time , and many of them had proper names . 
EIRIK BROUGHT TO THE SOVEREIGNTY . 
he became very heavy , and unable to travel through the country , or do the business of a king . 
Then he brought his son Eirik to his high seat , and gave him the power and command over the whole land . 
After the death of Bjorn the Chapman , his brother Olaf took the command over Vestfold , and took Bjorn's son , Gudrod , as his foster child . 
Olaf's son was called Trygve and the two foster brothers were about the same age , and were hopeful and clever . 
Trygve , especially , was remarkable as a stout and strong man . 
Eirik did not like this at all . 
Two years after this , Halfdan the Black died suddenly at a feast in Throndhjem and the general report was that Gunhild had bribed a witch to give him a death drink . 
Thereafter the Throndhjem people took Sigrod to be their king . 
Eirik and Gunhild had a son on whom King Harald poured water , and gave him his own name , and the promise that he should be king after his father Eirik . 
King Harald married most of his daughters within the country to his earls , and from them many great families are descended . 
, and was buried under a mound at Haugar in Karmtsund . 
One stone was set at head and one at the feet on the top lay the slab , and below on both sides were laid small stones . 
The grave , mound , and stone , are there to the present day . 
Harald Harfager was , according to the report of men of knowledge , or remarkably handsome appearance , great and strong , and very generous and affable to his men . 
The stem again was green and beautiful , which betokened his flourishing kingdom and that the tree was white at the top showed that he should reach a grey haired old age . 
The branches and twigs showed forth his posterity , spread over the whole land for of his race , ever since . 
Norway has always had kings . 
THE DEATH OF OLAF AND OF SIGROD . 
, which the king had in the middle of the country , the next winter after King Harald's decease . 
But Olaf took all the revenues eastward in Viken , and their brother Sigrod all that of the Throndhjem country . 
, King Eirik levied a great force , and ships and steered towards Viken . 
He got such a strong steady gale that he sailed night and day , and came faster than the news of him . 
Both brothers , Olaf and Sigrod , fell there and both their grave mounds are upon the ridge where they fell . 
Then King Eirik went through Viken , and subdued it , and remained far into summer . 
Gudrod and Trygve fled to the Uplands . 
Eirik was a stout handsome man , strong , and very manly , a great and fortunate man of war but bad minded , gruff , unfriendly , and silent . 
Gunhild , his wife , was the most beautiful of women , clever , with much knowledge , and lively but a very false person , and very cruel in disposition . 
The children of King Eirik and Gunhild were , Gamle , the oldest then Guthorm , Harald , Ragnfrod , Ragnhild , Erling , Gudrod , and Sigurd Sleva . 
All were handsome , and of manly appearance . 
ENDNOTES Of Eirik , his wife , and children , see the following sagas . 
Of Eirik Blood axe's five years' reign Snorre has no separate saga . 
He appears not to have been beloved by the people and his queen Gunhild seems to have had a bad influence on him . 
, Agrip , Historia , Norvegiae , and in Thjodrek . 
The reader is also referred to Saxo , Egla , Laxdaela , Kormaks Saga , Gisle Surssons Saga , Halfred's Saga , Floamanna Saga , Viga Glum's Saga , and to Landnamabok . 
Skald mentioned in this Saga are Glum Geirason , Thord Sjarekson , Guthorm Sindre , Kormak Ogmundson , and Eyvind Skaldaspiller . 
In the Egla are found many poems belonging to this epoch by Egil Skallagrimson . 
had made on King Eirik after his death , telling how Odin welcomed him to Valhal . 
Gudbrand Vigfusson has filled up a few gaps from Hakonarmat , the poem at the end of this Saga . 
We have changed Vigfusson's orthography of names , and brought them into harmony with the spelling used in this work Ed . 
I woke up the host of the chosen . 
I bade them ride up to strew the benches , and to till up the beer vats , and I bade valkyries to bear the wine , as if a king were coming . 
I look for the coming of some noble chiefs from the earth , wherefore my heart is glad . 
It thunders for Eirik the king , that is coming to the hall of Odin . 
Sigmund and Sinfjotle go outside the hall and meet Eirik . 
Fagrskinna says Hakonarmal was the model of this poem . 
he heard of his father King Harald's death , and he immediately made himself ready to depart . 
King Athelstan gave him men , and a choice of good ships , and fitted him out for his journey most excellently . 
In harvest time he came to Norway , where he heard of the death of his brothers , and that King Eirik was then in Viken . 
Then Hakon sailed northwards to Throndhjem , where he went to Sigurd earl of Hlader who was the ablest man in Norway . 
He gave Hakon a good reception and they made a league with each other , by which Hakon promised great power to Sigurd if he was made king . 
They assembled then a numerous Thing , and Sigurd the earl recommended Hakon's cause to the Thing , and proposed him to the bondes as king . 
Then Hakon himself stood up and spoke and the people said to each other , two and two , as they heard him , Herald Harfager is come again , grown and young . 
He promised , on the other hand , to make all the bondes udal holders , and give every man udal rights to the land he lived on . 
This speech met such joyful applause , that the whole public cried and shouted that they would take him to be king . 
Many bondes came from the Uplands to meet King Hakon . 
Some sent messengers , some tokens and all to the same effect that his men they would be and the king received all thankfully . 
KING HAKON'S PROGRESS THROUGH THE COUNTRY . 
, the king went to the Uplands , and summoned the people to a Thing and there streamed all to him who could come . 
The hatred to King Eirik grew more and more , the more liking all men took to King Hakon and they got more boldness to say what they thought . 
King Hakon gave Trygve and Gudrod the title of kings , and the dominions which King Harald had bestowed on their fathers . 
Trygve got Ranrike and Vingulmark , and Gudrod , Vestfold but as they were young , and in the years of childhood , he appointed able men to rule the land for them . 
He gave them the country on the same conditions as it had been given before , that they should have half of the scat and revenues with him . 
Towards spring King Hakon returned north , over the Uplands , to Throndhjem . 
EIRIK'S DEPARTURE FROM THE COUNTRY . 
King Hakon , early in spring , collected a great army at Throndhjem , and fitted out ships . 
The people of Viken also had a great force on foot , and intended to join Hakon . 
King Eirik also levied people in the middle of the country but it went badly with him to gather people , for the leading men left him , and went over to Hakon . 
out to the West sea with such men as would follow him . 
Eirik should let himself be baptized , together with his wife and children , and all the people who had followed him . 
Eirik accepted this offer , and was baptized , and adopted the right faith . 
Northumberland is called a fifth part of England . 
Eirik had his residence at York , where Lodbrok's sons , it was said , had formerly been , and Northumberland was principally inhabited by Northmen . 
Since Lodbrok's sons had taken the country , Danes and Northmen often plundered there , when the power of the land was out of their hands . 
Many names of places in the country are Norwegian as Grimsby , Haukfliot , and many others . 
King Eirik had many people about him , for he kept many Northmen who had come with him from the East and also many of his friends had joined him from Norway . 
But as he had little land , he went on a cruise every summer , and plundered in Scotland , the Hebrides , Ireland , and Bretland , by which he gathered property . 
King Athelstan died on a sick bed , after a reign of fourteen years , eight weeds , and three days . 
After him his brother Jatmund was king of England , and he was no friend to the Northmen . 
King Eirik , also , was in no great favour with him and the word went about that King Jatmund would set another chief over Northumberland . 
Then he sailed to the Hebrides , where there were many vikings and troop kings , who joined their men to his . 
The people fled before him wherever he appeared . 
King Jatmund had set a king , who was called Olaf , to defend the land and he gathered an innumerable mass of people , with whom he marched against King Eirik . 
Towards the end of the day , King Eirik and five kings with him fell . 
Three of them were Guthorm and his two sons , Ivar and Harek there fell , also , Sigurd and Ragnvald and with them Torfeinar's two sons , Arnkel and Erlend . 
Besides these , there was a great slaughter of Northmen and those who escaped went to Northumberland , and brought the news to Gunhild and her sons . 
They took also all the loose property , and goods which they had gathered partly as taxes in England , partly as booty on their expeditions . 
With their army they first steered northward to Orkney , where Thorfin Hausakljufer was earl , a son of Torfeinar , and took up their station there for a time . 
About this Glum Geirason sings The hero who knows well to ride The sea horse o'er the foamingtide , He who in boyhood wild rode o'er The seaman's horse to Skanea's shore . 
And showed the Danes his galley's bow , Right nobly scours the ocean now . 
On Scotland's coast he lights the brand Of flaming war with conquering hand Drives many a Scottish warrior tall To the bright seats in Odin's hall . 
The fire spark , by the fiend of war Fanned to a flame , soon spreads afar . 
Crowds trembling fly , the southern foes Fall thick beneath the hero's blows The hero's blade drips red with gore , Staining the green sward on the shore . 
When King Eirik had left the country , King Hakon , Athelstan's foster son , subdued the whole of Norway . 
he visited the western parts , and then went north , and settled in Throndhjem . 
Hakon placed Sigurd earl of Hlader over the whole Throradhjem district , as he and his father had before had it under Harald Harfager . 
When the king heard of this , he sailed after them with all his army . 
On arriving in Jutland he plundered all round and when the country people heard of it , they assembled in a great body , and determined to defend their land , and fight . 
There was a great battle and King Hakon fought so boldly , that he went forward before his banner without helmet or coat of mail . 
King Hakon won the victory , and drove the fugitives far up the country . 
So says Guthorm Sindre , in his song of Hakon Furrowing the deep blue sea with oars , The king pursues to Jutland's shores . 
Then Hakon steered southwards with his fleet to seek the vikings , and so on to Sealand . 
He rowed with two cutters into the Eyrarsund , where he found eleven viking ships , and instantly attacked them . 
It ended in his gaining the victory , and clearing the viking ships of all their men . 
Famous is Hakon's name since then . 
KING HAKON'S EXPEDITION TO DENMARK . 
Thereafter King Hakon carried war far and wide in Sealand plundering some , slaying others , taking some prisoners of war , taking ransom from others , and all without opposition . 
Then Hakon proceeded along the coast of Skane , pillaging everywhere , levying taxes and ransome from the country , and killing all vikings , both Danish and Vindish . 
He then went eastwards to the district of Gautland , marauded there , and took great ransom from the country . 
in Viken to defend it against the Danes and Gautlanders , if they should attack it . 
In the same winter King Trygve Olafson returned from a viking cruise in the West sea , having before ravaged in Ireland and Scotland . 
King Hakon went north , and set his brother's son , King Trygve , over Viken to defend that country against enemies . 
He gave him also in property all that he could reconquer of the country in Denmark , which the summer before King Hakon had subjected to payment of scat to him . 
The dwarf Annar was the husband of Night , and Earth was their daughter . 
King Harald Gormson ruled over Denmark at that time . 
He took it much amiss that King Hakon had made war in his dominions , and the report went that he would take revenge but this did not take place so soon . 
When Gunhild and her sons heard there was enmity between Denmark and Norway , they began to turn their course from the West . 
Gamle Eirikson was somewhat older than the other brothers , but still he was not a grown man . 
When Gunhild and her sons came from the westward to Denmark , they were well received by King Harald . 
He gave them great fiefs in his kingdom , so that they could maintain themselves and their men very well . 
He also took Harald Eirikson to be his foster son , set him on his knee , and thereafter he was brought up at the Danish king's court . 
Some of Eirik's sons went out on viking expeditions as soon as they were old enough , and gathered property , ravaging all around in the East sea . 
They grew up quickly to be handsome men , and far beyond their years in strength and perfection . 
Glum Geirason tells of one of them in the Grafeld song I've heard that , on the Eastland coast , Great victories were won and lost . 
Sometimes Eirik's sons plundered in Viken , and sometimes Trygve in Sealand and Halland . 
KING HAKON AS A LAW GIVER . 
As long as Hakon was king in Norway , there was good peace between the bondes and merchants so that none did harm either to the life or goods of the other . 
Good seasons also there were , both by sea and land . 
King Hakon was of a remarkably cheerful disposition , clever in words , and very condescending . 
He was a man of great understanding also , and bestowed attention on law giving . 
also the Frosta thing's laws on the advice of Earl Sigurd , and of other Throndhjem men of wisdom . 
Eidsiva thing laws were first established in the country by Halfdan the Black , as has before been written . 
THE BIRTH OF EARL HAKON THE GREAT . 
King Hakon kept Yule at Throndhjem , and Earl Sigurd had made a feast for him at Hlader . 
The boy grew up , and became in his day a mighty and able man , and was earl after his father , who was King Hakon's dearest friend . 
Then King Eystein made another inroad into Throndhjem , and ravaged the land far and wide , and subdued it . 
He then offered the people either his slave , who was called Thorer Faxe , or his dog , whose name was Saur , to be their king . 
They preferred the dog , as they thought they would sooner get rid of him . 
Now the dog was , by witchcraft , gifted with three men's wisdom and when he barked , he spoke one word and barked two . 
A collar and chain of gold and silver were made for him , and his courtiers carried him on their shoulders when the weather or ways were foul . 
A throne was erected for him , and he sat upon a high place , as kings are used to sit . 
, and had his mansion in a place now called Saurshaug . 
They cleared the woods , and established large farms , and settled the country afterwards called Jamtaland . 
Thorer Helsing , Ketil's grandson , on account of a murder , ran away from Jamtaland and fled eastward through the forest , and settled there . 
Many people followed , and that country , which extends eastward down to the seacoast , was called Helsingjaland and its eastern parts are inhabited by Swedes . 
The Helsingjaland people travelled into Svithiod for their merchandise , and thus became altogether subjects of that country . 
All the people of Helsingjaland did the same , that is , all who were of Norwegian race , from the other side of the great mountain ridge . 
But he kept Sundays , and the Friday fasts , and some token of the greatest holy days . 
, and Yule was kept for three days thereafter . 
It was his intent , as soon as he had set himself fast in the land , and had subjected the whole to his power , to introduce Christianity . 
The people of More and Raumsdal referred the matter to the people of Throndhjem . 
King Hakon then had several churches consecrated , and put priests into them and when he came to Throndhjem he summoned the bondes to a Thing , and invited them to accept Christianity . 
And first Odin's goblet was emptied for victory and power to his king thereafter , Niord's and Freyja's goblets for peace and a good season . 
and then the guests emptied a goblet to the memory of departed friends , called the remembrance goblet . 
Sigurd the earl was an open handed man , who did what was very much celebrated namely , he made a great sacrifice festival at Hlader of which he paid all the expenses . 
He loves the gods , his liberal hand Scatters his sword's gains o'er the land ENDNOTES The brage goblet , over which vows were made . 
King Hakon came to the Frosta thing , at which a vast multitude of people were assembled . 
As soon as the king had proposed this to the bondes , great was the murmur and noise among the crowd . 
They complained that the king wanted to take their labour and their old faith from them , and the land could not be cultivated in that way . 
We have also held thee so dear , that we have allowed thee to rule and give law and right to all the country . 
But thou , king , must use some moderation towards us , and only require from us such things as we can obey thee in , and are not impossible for us . 
Now , king , thou must choose one or other of these conditions before the Thing is ended . 
The bondes gave loud applause to this speech , and said it expressed their will , and they would stand or fall by what had been spoken . 
When silence was again restored , Earl Sigurd said , It is King Hakon's will to give way to you , the bondes , and never to separate himself from your friendship . 
Hereafter we may find a good way to manage it . 
And in this resolution the king and earl agreed . 
The harvest thereafter , towards the winter season , there was a festival of sacrifice at Hlader , and the king came to it . 
The earl said that the king should do so this time . 
The king accordingly sat upon his high seat . 
He is blessing the full goblet in the name of Thor , by making the sign of his hammer over it before he drinks it . 
On this there was quietness for the evening . 
This eating of horse flesh at these religious festivals was considered the most direct proof of paganism in the following times , and was punished by death or mutilation by Saint Olaf . 
It was a ceremony apparently commemorative of their Asiatic origin and ancestors . 
FEAST OF THE SACRIFICE AT MORE . 
The winter thereafter the king prepared a Yule feast in More , and eight chiefs resolved with each other to meet at it . 
These eight men bound themselves , the four first to root out Christianity in Norway , and the four others to oblige the king to offer sacrifice to the gods . 
The four first went in four ships southwards to More , and killed three priests , and burnt three churches , and then they returned . 
and when summer came he assembled men , and the report was that he intended with this army to attack the Throndhjem people . 
Now King Hakon sailed south along the coast and when he came south as far as Stad , he heard that Eirik's sons were come to North Agder . 
Then they advanced against each other , and met at Kormt . 
Both parties left their ships there , and gave battle at Ogvaldsnes . 
Both parties had a great force , and it was a great battle . 
King Hakon went forward bravely , and King Guthorm Eirikson met him with his troop , and they exchanged blows with each other . 
Guthorm fell , and his standard was cut down . 
Many people fell around him . 
The army of Eirik's sons then took flight to their ships and rowed away with the loss of many a man . 
So says Guthorm Sindre The king's voice waked the silent host Who slept beside the wild sea coast , And bade the song of spear and sword Over the battle plain be heard . 
Where heroes' shields the loudest rang , Where loudest was the sword blade's clang , By the sea shore at Kormt Sound , Hakon felled Guthorm to the ground . 
Now King Hakon returned to his ships , and pursued Gunhild's sons . 
And both parties sailed all they could sail , until they came to East Adger , from whence Eirik's sons set out to sea , and southwards for Jutland . 
Well I remember how the King Hakon , the battle's life and spring , O'er the wide ocean cleared away Eirik's brave sons . 
They durst not stay , But round their ships' sides hung their shields And fled across the blue sea fields . 
King Hakon returned then northwards to Norway , but Eirik's sons remained a long time in Denmark . 
For this outfit the whole inhabitants should be bound whenever a foreign army came to the country . 
They sailed with a fair wind from Vendil , and came to Agder and then sailed northwards , night and day , along the coast . 
King Hakon was very angry at this , because it cost both trouble and money to no purpose . 
Then spies set off across Eid and northwards to More . 
The spies came to King Hakon , and told him that Eirik's sons , with a great army , lay just to the south of Stad . 
Many others agreed with this speech , and the king himself declared he was most inclined to fight with such strength as they could gather . 
The king split up a war arrow , which he sent off in all directions , and by that token a number of men was collected in all haste . 
, within doors upon a bed of straw , although I would rather fall in battle following my chief . 
And now it may so turn out in the end as I wished it to be . 
In all the sagas of this pagan time , the dying on a bed of sickness is mentioned as a kind of derogatory end of a man of any celebrity . 
Eirik's sons sailed northwards around Stad as soon as the wind suited and when they had passed it , and heard where King Hakon was , they sailed to meet him . 
Then Eirik's sons left their ships , and went northwards over the neck of land within Fredarberg , and onward to Rastarkalf . 
Then Egil asked King Hakon to give him ten men with ten banners , and the king did so . 
And so it was done and there was a severe battle , and a very sharp attack . 
They went so near the summit that the banners could be seen over it , and moved on as if they were coming behind the army of Eirik's sons . 
They made each other acquainted with what was going on in a loud shout , and the whole took to flight and when the king saw it , they fled with the rest . 
King Hakon now pushes on briskly with his people , pursuing the flying , and killing many . 
At last the Eirik's sons' force fled , and took the road south about the hill but a part of their army retreated upon the hill southwards , followed by King Hakon . 
There is a flat field east of the ridge which runs westward along the range of hills , and is bounded on its west side by a steep ridge . 
Gamle's men retreated towards this ground but Hakon followed so closely that he killed some , and others ran west over the ridge , and were killed on that side of it . 
King Hakon did not part with them till the last man of them was killed . 
KING GAMLE AND ULSERK FALL . 
Gamle Eirikson fled from the ridge down upon the plain to the south of the hill . 
There he turned himself again , and waited until more people gathered to him . 
All his brothers , and many troops of their men , assembled there . 
Egil Ulserk was in front , and in advance of Hakon's men , and made a stout attack . 
He and King Gamle exchanged blows with each other , and King Gamle got a grievous wound but Egil fell , and many people with him . 
Then came Hakon the king with the troops which had followed him , and a new battle began . 
King Hakon pushed on , cutting down men on both sides of him , and killing the one upon the top of the other . 
So sings Guthorm Sindre Scared by the sharp sword's singing sound , Brandished in air , the foe gave ground . 
The boldest warrior cannot stand Before King Hakon's conqueringhand And the king's banner ever dies Where the spear forests thickest rise . 
, He spared himself no more than tho' He'd had no well filled purse to show . 
Now the sons of Eirik and their men plunged into the sea , and betook themselves to swimming . 
Gamle Eirikson was drowned but the other sons of Eirik reached their ships , and set sail with what men remained . 
They steered southwards to Denmark , where they stopped a while , very ill satisfied with their expedition . 
Freyja's husband was Od and her tears , when she wept at the long absence of her husband , were tears of gold . 
Od's wife's tears is the skald's expression here for gold understood , no doubt , as readily as any allusion to Plutus would convey the equivalent meaning in modern poetry . 
King Hakon took all the ships of the sons of Eirik that had been left upon the strand , and had them drawn quite up , and brought on the land . 
Then he ordered that Egil Ulserk , and all the men of his army who had fallen , should be laid in the ships , and covered entirely over with earth and stones . 
one of the children of Loke . 
begotten with a giantess , was chained to a rock , and gagged by a sword placed in his mouth , to prevent him devouring mankind . 
Fenriswolf's gag is a skaldic expression for a sword . 
NEWS OF WAR COMES TO KING HAKON . 
that he was at a feast in Hordaland in the house at Fitjar on the island Stord , and he had with him at the feast his court and many of the peasants . 
Then one of them went into the room and asked Eyvind Finson to come out as fast as possible , for it was very needful . 
Thy wrath I brave Tho' well I know 'tis no light thing To bring war tidings to the king And tell him 'tis no time to rest . 
The others all said it was a true report . 
The king thanked them for their resolution , and bade them arm themselves and all the men did so . 
in his hand , and a shield by his side . 
He then drew up his courtmen and the bondes in one body , and set up his banner . 
THE ARMAMENT OF EIRIK'S SONS . 
After Gamle's death King Harald , Eirik's son , was the chief of the brothers , and he had a great army with him from Denmark . 
In their army were also their mother's brothers , Eyvind Skreyja , and Alf Askman , both strong and able men , and great man slayers . 
When King Hakon had drawn up his men , it is told of him that he threw off his armour before the battle began . 
So sings Eyvind Skaldaspiller , in Hakmarmal They found Blorn's brother bold Under his banner as of old , Ready for battle . 
With golden helm , and naked breast , Brave Hakon played at slaughter's feast . 
He had helmet and shield , spear and sword and his sword was called by the name of Footbreadth . 
It was said that Thoralf and King Hakon were equal in strength . 
Stout Thoralf he Next to the Northmen's hero came , Scattering wide round the battle flame For in the storm of shields not one Ventured like him with brave Hakon . 
When both lines met there was a hard combat , and much bloodshed . 
The combatants threw their spears and then drew their swords . 
Then King Hakon , and Thoralf with him , went in advance of the banner , cutting down on both sides of them . 
So says Eyvind Skaldaspiller The body coats of naked steel , The woven iron coats of mail , Like water fly before the swing Of Hakon's sword the champion king . 
Amidst the battle's wild uproar , Wild pealing round from shore to shore . 
FALL OF SKREYJA AND ASKMAN . 
King Hakon was very conspicuous among other men , and also when the sun shone his helmet glanced , and thereby many weapons were directed at him . 
Then Eyvind Finson took a hat and put it over the king's helmet . 
King Hakon shouted to Eyvind , Come on as thou art coming , and thou shalt find the king of the Norsemen . 
Now the king takes his sword Kvernbit with both hands , and hewed Eyvind through helm and head , and clove him down to the shoulders . 
Thoralf also slew Alf Askman . 
By his bright sword with golden haft Thro' helm , and head , and hair , was cleft The Danish champion and amain , With terror smitten , fled his men . 
After this fall of the two brothers , King Hakon pressed on so hard that all men gave way before his assault . 
Many also , among whom were Eirik's sons , got on board their ships , and rowed away as fast as they could , and Hakon's men after them . 
So says Thord Sjarekson The wolf . 
the murderer , and the thief , Fled from before the people's chief Few breakers of the peace grew old Under the Northmen's king so bold . 
When gallant Hakon lost his life Black was the day , and dire the strife . 
Then he called his friends around him , and told them what he wished to be done with regard to his kingdom . 
He had only one child , a daughter , called Thora , and had no son . 
Now he told them to send a message to Eirik's sons , that they should be kings over the country but asked them to hold his friends in respect and honour . 
Shortly afterwards Hakon expired , at the little hill on the shore side at which he was born . 
So great was the sorrow over Hakon's death , that he was lamented both by friends and enemies and they said that never again would Norway see such a king . 
They spoke over his grave , as heathen people are used to do , and wished him in Valhal . 
Eyvind Skaldaspiller composed a poem on the death of King Hakon , and on how well he was received in Valhal . 
At Stord , so late a lonely shore , Was heard the battle's wild uproar The lightning of the flashing sword Burned fiercely at the shore of Stord . 
From levelled halberd and spearhead Life blood was dropping fast and red And the keen arrows' biting sleet Upon the shore at Stord fast beat . 
To Hermod and to Brage then Said Odin , Here , the first of men , Brave Hakon comes , the Norsemen's king , Go forth , my welcome to him bring . 
Fresh from the battle field came in , Dripping with blood , the Norsemen'a king . 
For the whole council of the gods Welcomed the king to their abodes . 
Happy the day when men are born Like Hakon , who all base things scorn . 
Win from the brave and honoured name , And die amidst an endless fame . 
Sooner shall Fenriswolf devour The race of man from shore to shore , Than such a grace to kingly crown As gallant Hakon want renown . 
Life , land , friends , riches , all will fly , And we in slavery shall sigh . 
But Hakon in the blessed abodes For ever lives with the bright gods . 
Hakon , although a Christian , appears to have favoured the old religion , and spared the temples of Odin , and therefore a place in Valhal is assigned him . 
L. SAGA OF KING HARALD GRAFELD AND OF EARL HAKON SON OF SIGURD . 
PRELIMINARY REMARKS This saga might be called Gunhild's Saga , as she is the chief person in it . 
The reign of King Harald and Earl Hakon is more fully described in the next saga , that is , Olaf Trygvason's . 
The skalds of this saga are Glum Geirason , Kormak Agmundson , Eyvind Skaldaspiller , and Einar Helgason Skalaglam . 
GOVERNMENT OF THE SONS OF EIRIK . 
When King Hakon was killed , the sons of Eirik took the sovereignty of Norway . 
Harald , who was the oldest of the living brothers , was over them in dignity . 
Their mother Gunhild , who was called the King mother , mixed herself much in the affairs of the country . 
There were many chiefs in the land at that time . 
There was Trygve Olafson in the Eastland , Gudrod Bjornson in Vestfold , Sigurd earl of Hlader in the Throndhjem land but Gunhild's sons held the middle of the country the first winter . 
This song was much favoured . 
When Eyvind Finson heard of it he composed the song which was given before , viz . 
Our dauntless king with Gamle's gore Sprinkled his bright sword o'er and o'er , c . 
There was also some relationship between them , as Gunhild , Eyvind's mother , was a daughter of Earl Halfdan , and her mother was Ingibjorg , a daughter of Harald Harfager . 
Earl Sigurd was to get the same power in the Throndhjem land which he had possessed under King Hakon , and on that they considered themselves at peace . 
All Gunhild's sons had the character of being penurious and it was said they hid their money in the ground . 
Now when King Harald heard this song , he sent a message to Eyvind to come to him , and when Eyvind came made a charge against him of being unfaithful . 
And it ill becomes thee , said the king , to be my enemy , as thou hast entered into my service . 
But now I'm old and useless grown , My hands are empty , wealth is flown I am but fir for a short space In thy court hall to fill a place . 
But King Harald forced Eyvind to submit himself to his clemency . 
Eyvind had a great gold ring , which was called Molde , that had been dug up out of the earth long since . 
This ring the King said he must have as the mulet for the offence and there was no help for it . 
Then Eyvind sang I go across the ocean foam , Swift skating to my Iceland home Upon the ocean skates , fast driven By gales by Thurse's witch fire given . 
For from the falcon bearing hand Harald has plucked the gold snake band My father wore by lawless might Has taken what is mine by right . 
Eyvind went home but it is not told that he ever came near the king again . 
Menja and Fenja were strong girls of the giant race , whom Frode bought in Sweden to grind gold and good luck to him and their meal means gold . 
The good crops of the country were soon wasted in their days , because there were many kings , and each had his court about him . 
They had therefore great expenses , and were very greedy . 
Besides , they only observed those laws of King Hakon which suited themselves . 
They were , however , all of them remarkably handsome men stout , strong , and expert in all exercises . 
enough in store , And understood twelve arts or more . 
The brothers sometimes went out on expeditions together , and sometimes each on his own account . 
They were fierce , but brave and active and great warriors , and very successful . 
Heimdal was one of the gods , whose horse was called Gold top and the horse's teeth were of gold . 
COUNCILS BY GUNHILD AND HER SONS . 
Gunhild the King mother , and her sons , often met , and talked together upon the government of the country . 
Once Gunhild asked her sons what they intended to do with their kingdom of Throndhjem . 
Ye have the title of king , as your forefathers had before you but ye have little land or people , and there are many to divide with . 
In the East , at Viken , there are Trygve and Gudrod and they have some right , from relationship , to their governments . 
It appears wonderful to me that ye go every summer upon viking cruises against other lands , and allow an earl within the country to take your father's heritage from you . 
Harald replied , It is not so easy , mother , to cut off Earl Sigurd as to slay a kid or a calf . 
I don't think it would be safe for any of us brothers to fall into the hands of the Throndhjem people . 
Then said Gunhild , We shall go to work another way , and not put ourselves forward . 
Harald and Erling shall come in harvest to North More , and there I shall meet you , and we shall consult together what is to be done . 
Earl Sigurd had a brother called Grjotgard , who was much younger , and much less respected in fact , was held in no title of honour . 
He had many people , however , about him , and in summer went on viking cruises , and gathered to himself property . 
Now King Harald sent messengers to Throndhjem with offers of friendship , and with presents . 
The Earl Sigurd received well the king's messengers and friendly message , but said that on account of his many affairs he could not come to the king . 
He sent many friendly gifts , and many glad and grateful words to the king , in return for his friendship . 
Grjotgard promised to come and at the appointed time he paid a visit to King Harald and Gunhild , and was received in the most friendly manner . 
They treated him on the most intimate footing , so that Grjotgard had access to their private consultations and secret councils . 
If he would join with them , the king promised Grjotgard that he should be his earl , and have the same government that Sigurd had . 
After this agreement Grjotgard returned home with many good presents from the king . 
SIGURD BURNT IN A HOUSE IN STJORADAL Earl Sigurd went in harvest into Stjoradal to guest quarters , and from thence went to Oglo to a feast . 
They sailed all night by starlight , and Grjotgard came out to meet them . 
As soon as it was daylight , they set out through the fjord , and south to More , where they remained a long time . 
HISTORY OF HAKON , SIGURD'S SON . 
Hakon , the son of Earl Sigurd , was up in the interior of the Throndhjem country when he heard this news . 
When Gunhild's sons heard of this , they set off southwards to Raumsdal and South More and both parties kept eye on each other by their spies . 
Earl Sigurd was killed two years after the fall of King Hakon . 
So says Eyvind Skaldaspiller in the Haleygjatal At Oglo . 
as I've heard , Earl Sigurd Was burnt to death by Norway's lord , Sigurd , who once on Hadding's grave A feast to Odin's ravens gave . 
In Oglo's hall , amidst the feast , When bowls went round and ale flowed fast , He perished Harald lit the fire Which burnt to death the son of Tyr . 
Earl Hakan , with the help of his friends , maintained himself in the Throndhjem country for three years and during that time Gunhild's sons got no revenues from it . 
Hakon had many a battle with Gunhild's sons , and many a man lost his life on both sides . 
The victory was dearly bought , And many a viking fight was fought Before the swinger of the sword Was of the eastern country lord . 
From his blue sword the iron rain That freezes life poured down amain On him who took his father's life , On him and his men in the strife . 
To Odin many a soul was driven , To Odin many a rich gift given . 
Loud raged the storm on battle field Axe rang on helm , and sword on shield . 
The friends on both sides at last laid themselves between , and brought proposals of peace for the bondes suffered by this strife and war in the land . 
Afterwards a great friendship arose between Earl Hakon and Gunhild , although they sometimes attempted to deceive each other . 
, in which time Earl Hakon sat quietly in his dominions . 
King Hakon had generally his seat in Hordaland and Rogaland , and also his brothers but very often , also , they went to Hardanger . 
One summer it happened that a vessel came from Iceland belonging to Icelanders , and loaded with skins and peltry . 
They sailed to Hardanger , where they heard the greatest number of people assembled but when the folks came to deal with them , nobody would buy their skins . 
Then the steersman went to King Harald , whom he had been acquainted with before , and complained of his ill luck . 
The king promised to visit him , and did so . 
King Harald was very condescending , and full of fun . 
In a few days so many people came to buy skins , that not half of them could be served with what they wanted and thereafter the king was called Harald Grafeld . 
Earl Hakon came one winter to the Uplands to a feast , and it so happened that he had intercourse with a girl of mean birth . 
Some time after the girl had to prepare for her confinement , and she bore a child , a boy , who had water poured on him , and was named Eirik . 
The mother carried the boy to Earl Hakon , and said that he was the father . 
They had agreed to meet , and they talked together long by themselves but so much only was known of their business , that they were to be friends of each other . 
They parted , and each went home to his own kingdom . 
The people accordingly assembled , launched the ships into the sea , and made themselves ready to sail . 
One said that King Harald excelled his brothers by far , and in every way . 
On this King Gudrod was very angry , and said that he was in no respect behind Harald , and was ready to prove it . 
Instantly both parties were so inflamed that they challenged each other to battle , and ran to their arms . 
Gudrod , again , sailed inside , through the usual channel , to Viken , and eastwards to Folden . 
He then sent a message to King Trygve to meet him , that they might make a cruise together in summer in the Baltic to plunder . 
Trygve accepted willingly , and as a friend , the invitation and as heard King Gudrod had but few people with him , he came to meet him with a single boat . 
They met at Veggen , to the east of Sotanes but just as they were come to the meeting place , Gudrod's men ran up and killed King Trygve and twelve men . 
He lies buried at a place called Trygve's Cairn . 
Then King Harald set out immediately with his followers , came in the night , and surrounded the house . 
King Gudrod Bjornson went out with his people but after a short resistance he fell , and many men with him . 
Then King Harald joined his brother King Gudrod , and they subdued all Viken . 
, was Harald's foster brother , and about the same age . 
After his father Gudrod's fall , Harald , who was called Grenske , fled to the Uplands , and with him his foster brother Hrane , and a few people . 
Harald therefore went eastward into Svithjod , and sought shipmates , that he might enter into company with those who went out a cruising to gather property . 
Harald became in this way a remarkably able man . 
Harald Grenske came into his company , and cruised with Toste in summer and wherever Harald came he was well thought of by every one . 
In the winter Harald , after passing two years in the Uplands , took up his abode with Toste , and lived five years with him . 
Toste had a daughter , who was both young and handsome , but she was proud and high minded . 
King Eirik died in a sick bed at Upsala ten years after the death of Styrbjorn . 
, and sailed along the land northwards , collecting people and ships on the way out of every district . 
They then made known their intent , to proceed northwards with their army against Earl Hakon in Throndhjem . 
Gunhild's sons conducted their army north to Throndhjem , and remained there the whole summer collecting the scat and duties . 
But when summer was advanced they left Sigurd Slefa and Gudron behind and the other brothers returned eastward with the levied army they had taken up in summer . 
OF EARL HAKON AND GUNHILD'S SONS . 
, and down into the Throndhjem district . 
Many people streamed towards him , and he fitted out ships . 
The sons of Gunhild , on the other hand , occupied More and they and the earl attacked each other in turns , killing each other's people . 
One summer Harald Grayskin with his troops went north to Bjarmaland , where be forayed , and fought a great battle with the inhabitants on the banks of the Vina . 
King Harald gained the victory , killed many people , plundered and wasted and burned far and wide in the land , and made enormous booty . 
Glum Geirason tells of it thus I saw the hero Harald chase With bloody sword Bjarme's race They fly before him through the night , All by their burning city's light . 
On Dwina's bank , at Harald's word , Arose the storm of spear and sword . 
In such a wild war cruise as this , Great would he be who could bring peace . 
King Sigurd Slefa came to the Herse Klyp's house . 
Klyp was a son of Thord , and a grandson of Hordakare , and was a man of power and great family . 
He was not at home but his wife Alof give a good reception to the king , and made a great feast at which there was much drinking . 
Alof was a daughter of Asbjorn , and sister to Jarnskegge , north in Yrjar . 
Asbjorn's brother was called Hreidar , who was father to Styrkar , whose son was Eindride , father of Einar Tambaskielfer . 
In the night the king went to bed to Alof against her will , and then set out on his journey . 
The harvest thereafter , King Harald and his brother King Sigurd Slefa went to Vors , and summoned the bondes to a Thing . 
There the bondes fell on them , and would have killed them , but they escaped and took different roads . 
King Harald went to Hardanger , but King Sigurd to Alrekstader . 
Now when the Herse Klyp heard of this , he and his relations assembled to attack the king and Vemund Volubrjot was chief of their troop . 
Literally the one who breaks the vala , that is , breaks the skulls of witches . 
King Harald Grafeld and his brother King Gudrod gathered together a great army in the east country , with which they set out northwards to Throndhjem . 
When Earl Hakon heard of it he collected men , and set out to More , where he plundered . 
There his father's brother , Grjotgard , had the command and defence of the country on account of Gunhild's sons , and he assembled an army by order of the kings . 
Earl Hakon advanced to meet him , and gave him battle and there fell Grjotgard and two other earls , and many a man besides . 
So says Einar Skalaglam The helm crown'd Hakon , brave as stout , Again has put his foes to rout . 
That fires the skald when mighty deed Has to be sung . 
Earl Hakon's sword , In single combat , as I've heard , Three sons of earls from this one fray To dwell with Odin drove away . 
Thereafter Earl Hakon went out to sea , and sailed outside the coast , and came to Denmark . 
He went to the Danish King , Harald Gormson , and was well received by him , and staid with him all winter . 
At that time there was also with the Danish king a man called Harald , a son of Knut Gormson , and a brother's son of King Harald . 
He was lately come home from a long viking cruise , on which he had gathered great riches , and therefore he was called Gold Harald . 
He thought he had a good chance of coming to the Danish kingdom . 
Odin's mead , called Bodn , was the blood or mead the sons of Brage , the god of poets , drank to inspire them . 
L. To dwell with Odin , viz . 
King Harald Grafeld and his brothers proceeded northwards to Throndhjem , where they met no opposition . 
King Harald went south with the greater part of the men at arms , but King Erlin remained behind with his men . 
He raised great contributions from the bondes , and pressed severely on them at which the bondes murmured greatly , and submitted to their losses with impatience . 
THE SEASONS IN NORWAY AT THIS TIME . 
While Gunhild's sons reigned in Norway the seasons were always bad , and the longer they reigned the worse were the crops and the bondes laid the blame on them . 
They were very greedy , and used the bondes harshly . 
It came at length to be so bad that fish , as well as corn , were wanting . 
all over the country until midsummer . 
ENDNOTES Byres gards or farms . 
THE ICELANDERS AND EYVIND THE SKALD . 
Eyvind composed a poem about the people of Iceland , for which they rewarded him by each bonde giving him three silver pennies , of full weight and white in the fracture . 
This they sent to Eyvind but Eyvind was obliged to separate the clasps from each other , and sell them to buy food for his household . 
Fain would I know if Fortune sends A like provision to my friends . 
Welcome provision 'tis , I wot , That the whale drives to our cook's pot . 
Herrings , from their swift darting along , are called the arrows of the sea . 
Hitherto the narrative has been more or less fragmentary . 
With Olaf Trygvason's Saga reliable history begins , and the narration is full and connected . 
The story of Hakon the earl is incorporated in this saga . 
Accounts of Olaf Trygvason may be found in Od the Monk's legendary saga , in parts of Agrip , Historia Norvegiae , and in Thjodrek . 
King Trygve Olafson had married a wife who was called Astrid . 
She was a daughter of Eirik Bjodaskalle , a great man , who dwelt at Oprustader . 
Astrid fled , and privately took with her all the loose property she could . 
Her foster father , Thorolf Lusarskeg , followed her , and never left her and others of her faithful followers spied about to discover her enemies , and where they were . 
Astrid was pregnant with a child of King Trygve , and she went to a lake , and concealed herself in a holm or small island in it with a few men . 
Here her child was born , and it was a boy and water was poured over it , and it was called Olaf after the grandfather . 
They did not seek for houses unless in the night time , when they came to them secretly and they spoke to nobody . 
After Trygve Olafson's murder , Harald Grafeld and his brother Gudrod went to the farm which he owned but Astrid was gone , and they could learn no tidings of her . 
A loose report came to their ears that she was pregnant to King Trygve but they soon went away northwards , as before related . 
As soon as they met their mother Gunhild they told her all that had taken place . 
Her orders were to go to Oprustader , to Eirik , and take King Trygve's son from thence , and bring the child to her and with these orders the men went out . 
Long before day they departed , and towards evening they reached a domain called Skaun . 
Here they saw a large mansion , towards which they went , and begged a night's lodging . 
For the sake of concealment they were clad in mean clothing . 
There dwelt here a bonde called Bjorn Eiterkveisa , who was very rich , but very inhospitable . 
He drove them away and therefore , towards dark , they went to another domain close by that was called Vidar . 
Thorstein was the name of the bonde and he gave them lodging , and took good care of them , so that they slept well , and were well entertained . 
Early that morning Gunhild's men had come to Oprustader , and inquired for Astrid and her son . 
As Eirik told them she was not there , they searched the whole house , and remained till late in the day before they got any news of Astrid . 
Then they rode after her the way she had taken , and late at night they came to Bjorn Eiterkveisa in Skaun , and took up their quarters there . 
They entreat of him to help them , and he gave them a guide and some provisions . 
He conducted them through a forest to a lake , in which there was an islet overgrown with reeds . 
They waded out to the islet , and hid themselves among the reeds . 
He said that some people had been there but as soon as it was daylight they had set off again , eastwards , to the forest . 
Hakon made Thorstein go along with them , as he knew all the roads and hiding places . 
Thorstein went with them but when they were come into the woods , he led them right across the way Astrid had taken . 
They went about and about the whole day to no purpose , as they could find no trace of her , so they turned back to tell Gunhild the end of their travel . 
, where she and her son remained a long time , and had friendly welcome . 
The ambassadors were well received and well treated . 
The king gave Hakon people with him , and he rode with them to Hakon the Old , where Hakon desired , with many friendly expressions , that Olaf should go with him . 
Hakon the Old returned a friendly answer , saying that it depended entirely upon Olaf's mother . 
But Astrid would on no account listen to the proposal and the messengers had to return as they came , and to tell King Eirik how the matter stood . 
The ambassadors then prepared to return home , and asked the king for some assistance to take the boy , whether Hakon the Old would or not . 
with King Valdemar , and was there in great consideration . 
Astrid had now a great inclination to travel to her brother there . 
Hakon the Old gave her good attendants , and what was needful for the journey , and she set out with some merchants . 
with Hakon the Old , and Olaf was three years of age . 
Olaf was separated from his mother , and an Eistland man called Klerkon got him as his share along with Thorolf and Thorgils . 
A third man , called Reas , bought Olaf for a good cloak . 
Reas had a wife called Rekon , and a son by her whose name was Rekone . 
Olaf was long with them , was treated well , and was much beloved by the people . 
Olaf was six years in Eistland in this banishment . 
OLAF IS SET FREE IN EISTLAND . 
, came into Eistland from Novgorod , on King Valdemar's business to collect the king's taxes and rents . 
Sigurd came as a man of consequence , with many followers and great magnificence . 
In the market place he happened to observe a remarkably handsome boy and as he could distinguish that he was a foreigner , he asked him his name and family . 
He answered him , that his name was Olaf that he was a son of Trygve Olafson and Astrid , a daughter of Eirik Bjodaskalle , was his mother . 
Then Sigurd knew that the boy was his sister's son , and asked him how he came there . 
Olaf told him minutely all his adventures , and Sigurd told him to follow him to the peasant Reas . 
When he came there he bought both the boys , Olaf and Thorgils , and took them with him to Holmgard . 
But , for the first , he made nothing known of Olaf's relationship to him , but treated him well . 
Olaf Trygvason was one day in the market place , where there was a great number of people . 
He recognized Klerkon again , who had killed his foster father Thorolf Lusarskeg . 
Sigurd immediately took Olaf to Queen Allogia's house , told her what had happened , and begged her to protect the boy . 
She replied , that the boy appeared far too comely to allow him to be slain and she ordered her people to be drawn out fully armed . 
It was reported that he was in the Queen's house , and that there was a number of armed men there . 
When this was told to the king , he went there with his people , but would allow no bloodshed . 
It was settled at last in peace , that the king should name the fine for the murder and the queen paid it . 
Olaf remained afterwards with the queen , and was much beloved . 
It is a law at Holmgard , that no man of royal descent shall stay there without the king's permission . 
Olaf was the handsomest of men , very stout and strong , and in all bodily exercises he excelled every Northman that ever was heard of . 
OF HAKON EARL OF HLADER . 
Earl Hakon , Sigurd's son , was with the Danish king , Harald Gormson , the winter after he had fled from Norway before Gunhild's sons . 
the earl had so much care and sorrow that he took to bed , and passed many sleepless nights , and ate and drank no more than was needful to support his strength . 
The same winter the Throndhjem people accordingly , as before related , killed King Erling . 
There was great friendship between Earl Hakon and Gold Harald , and Harald told Hakon all his intentions . 
I think , replied Hakon , that the Danish king would not deny thy right but the best way to know is to speak to the king himself . 
I know for certain so much , that you will not get a kingdom if you don't ask for it . 
Gold Harald was now worse off than before for he had got no kingdom , and had got the king's anger by proposing it . 
And if Gold Harald persists in his demand , I will have no hesitation in having him killed for I will not trust him if he does not renounce it . 
And then it would be a great enormity if you were to kill your relation for , as things now stand , all men would say that he was innocent . 
The king then went away with his people . 
COUNCILS HELD BY HAKON AND HARALD . 
Earl Hakon had now great reflection , and many opinions to weigh , and he let only very few be in the house with him . 
In a few days King Harald came again to the earl to speak with him , and ask if he had yet considered fully the matter they had been talking of . 
What kind of kingdom is that , said the king , which I can give to Harald , that I may possess Denmark entire ? It is Norway , said the earl . 
The kings who are there are oppressive to the people of the country , so that every man is against them who has tax or service to pay . 
The king replies , Norway is a large country , and the people fierce , and not good to attack with a foreign army . 
We found that sufficiently when Hakon defended that country for we lost many people , and gained no victory . 
Besides , Harald the son of Eirik is my foster son , and has sat on my knee . 
Send a message to your foster son Harald , Eirik's son , and offer him the lands and fiefs which Gunhild's sons held before in Denmark . 
Appoint him a meeting , and Gold Harald will soon conquer for himself a kingdom in Norway from Harald Grafeld . 
The king replies , that it would be called a bad business to deceive his own foster son . 
The Danes , answered the earl , will rather say that it was better to kill a Norwegian viking than a Danish , and your own brother's son . 
They spoke so long over the matter , that they agreed on it . 
HARALD GORMSON'S MESSAGE TO NORWAY . 
We can then continue , said he , our ancient friendship , and I can be of the greatest use to you in Norway . 
King Harald is now very old , and has but one son , and cares but little about him , as he is but the son of a concubine . 
The Earl talked so long to Gold Harald that the project pleased him well and the king , the earl , and Gold Harald often talked over the business together . 
The Danish king then sent messengers north to Norway to Harald Grafeld , and fitted them out magnificently for their journey . 
They were well received by Harald . 
The messengers told him that Earl Hakon was in Denmark , but was lying dangerously sick , and almost out of his senses . 
Harald Grafeld laid the matter before his mother and other friends . 
It was therefore concluded , before the messengers returned , that Harald should travel to Denmark to the Danish king in summer , and accept the conditions King Harald offered . 
TREACHERY OF HARALD AND HAKON . 
with three long ships and Herse Arinbjorn , from the Fjord district , commanded one of them . 
King Harald sailed from Viken over to Limfjord in Jutland , and landed at the narrow neck of land where the Danish king was expected . 
Now when Gold Harald heard of this , he sailed there with nine ships which he had fitted out before for a viking cruise . 
Earl Hakon had also his war force on foot namely , twelve large ships , all ready , with which he proposed to make an expedition . 
Now I will win Norway for you , and kill Gold Harald , if you will promise me a good condition under you . 
The king and the earl agreed upon this , and Hakon set off to seek Gold Harald . 
Before the lines came together Harald Grafeld urged on his men , and told them to draw their swords . 
He himself advanced the foremost of the troop , hewing down on each side . 
While swinging high the blood smeared sword , By arm and voice we knew our lord . 
So says Glum Geirason On Limfjord's strand , by the tide's flow , Stern Fate has laid King Harald low The gallant viking cruiser he Who loved the isle encircling sea . 
The generous ruler of the land Fell at the narrow Limfjord strand . 
Enticed by Hakon's cunning speech To his death bed on Limfjord's beach . 
The most of King Harald's men fell with him . 
There also fell Herse Arinbjorn . 
This happened fifteen years after the death of Hakon , Athelstan's foster son , and thirteen years after that of Sigurd earl of Hlader . 
Soon after Harald Grafeld's fall , Earl Hakon came up to Gold Harald , and the earl immediately gave battle to Harald . 
Hakon gained the victory , and Harald was made prisoner but Hakon had him immediately hanged on a gallows . 
Hakon then went to the Danish king , and no doubt easily settled with him for the killing his relative Gold Harald . 
Soon after King Harald Gormson ordered a levy of men over all his kingdom , and sailed with ships . 
The Danish king sailed with his fleet from the south to Viken , where all the people of the country surrendered to him . 
Harald Grenske was then eighteen years old , and he became afterwards a celebrated man . 
Harald king of Denmark returned home thereafter with all his army . 
, ships , as they were counted by long hundreds , . 
GUNHILD'S SONS LEAVE THE COUNTRY . 
Earl Hakon proceeded northwards along the coast with his force and when Gunhild and her sons got the tidings they proceeded to gather troops , but were ill off for men . 
Then they took the same resolution as before , to sail out to sea with such men as would follow them away to the westward . 
They came first to the Orkney Islands , and remained there a while . 
There were in Orkney then the Earls Hlodver . 
Arnfid , Ljot , and Skule , the sons of Thorfin Hausakljufer . 
Earl Hakon now brought all the country under him , and remained all winter in Throndhjem . 
Einar Skalaglam speaks of his conquests in Vellekla Norway's great watchman , Harald , now May bind the silk snood on his brow Seven provinces he seized . 
The realm Prospers with Hakon at the helm . 
His valiant champions , who were slain On battle fields across the main , To Thor , the thunder god , may tell How for the gods all turns out well . 
The hardy warrior now once more Offers the sacrifice of gore The shield bearer in Loke's game Invokes once more great Odin's name . 
The green earth gladly yields her store , As she was wont in days of yore , Since the brave breaker of the spears The holy shrines again uprears . 
The earl has conquered with strong hand All that lies north of Viken land In battle storm , and iron rain Hakon spreads wide his sword's domain . 
The first winter that Hakon ruled over Norway the herrings set in everywhere through the fjords to the land , and the seasons ripened to a good crop all that had been sown . 
The people , therefore , laid in seed for the next year , and got their lands sowed , and had hope of good times . 
King Ragnfred and King Gudrod , both sons of Gunhild and Eirik , were now the only sons of Gunhild remaining in life . 
Ragnfred began his course in the spring after he had been a year in the Orkney Islands . 
He sailed from thence to Norway , and had with him fine troops , and large ships . 
When he came to Norway he learnt that Earl Hakon was in Throndhjem therefore he steered northwards around Stad , and plundered in South More . 
He had no difficulty in assembling men . 
Ragnfred and Earl Hakon met at the north corner of More and Hakon , who had most men , but fewer ships , began the battle . 
The earl ordered to row with the oars to the land where landing seemed easiest . 
Ragnfred and his men laid their vessels in along the land , and they shot at each other a long time but upon the land Ragnfred would not venture and so they separated . 
Ragnfred sailed with his fleet southwards around Stad for he was much afraid the whole forces of the country would swarm around Hakon . 
King Ragnfred consequently had all the country south of Stad at his mercy namely , Fjord district , Hordaland , Sogn , Rogaland and he had many people about him all winter . 
When spring approached he ordered out the people and collected a large force . 
By going about the districts he got many men , ships , and warlike stores sent as he required . 
BATTLE BETWEEN HAKON AND RAGNFRED . 
People flocked to him from all the Throndhjem district and from Raumsdal . 
It was said for certain that he had men from four great districts , and that seven earls followed him , and a matchless number of men . 
With shining keels seven kings sailed on To meet this raven feeding one . 
When the clash came , the stunning sound Was heard in Norway's farthest bound And sea borne corpses , floating far , Brought round the Naze news from the war . 
Hakon came to the land with his ships , marked out a battle field with hazel branches for King Ragnfred , and took ground for his own men in it . 
The wielder of fell Narve's weapon , The conquering hero , valiant Hakon Had laid his war ships on the strand , And ranged his warriors on the land . 
There was a great battle but Earl Hakon , having by far the most people , gained the victory . 
It took place on the Thinganes , where Sogn and Hordaland meet . 
King Rangfred fled to his ships , after of his men had fallen . 
Earl Hakon married a girl called Thora , a daughter of the powerful Skage Skoptason , and very beautiful she was . 
They had two sons , Svein and Heming , and a daughter called Bergljot who was afterwards married to Einar Tambaskielfer . 
Earl Hakon was much addicted to women , and had many children among others a daughter Ragnhild , whom he married to Skopte Skagason , a brother of Thora . 
Whenever they were on a cruise together , Skopte must lay his ship nearest to the earl's , and no other ship was allowed to come in between . 
One summer that Earl Hakon was on a cruise , there was a ship with him of which Thorleif Spake was steersman . 
In it was also Eirik , Earl Hakon's son , then about ten or eleven years old . 
Now in the evenings , as they came into harbour , Eirik would not allow any ship but his to lie nearest to the earl's . 
Eirik in haste took up the matter , and ordered Skopte to go himself to the roadstead . 
When Thorleif heard this , he ordered his men to slip their land cable , and they did so and Skopte laid his vessel next to the earl's as he used to do . 
Tidindaskopte happened also to be going with a fully manned boat of fifteen rowers' benches from one of his farms to another , and Eirik went against him to have a battle . 
Skopte was slain , but Eirik granted life to those of his men who were still on their legs . 
Eirik sailed along the land and came to Denmark , and went to King Harald Gormson , and staid with him all winter . 
So says Eyjolf Dadaskald South through ocean's spray His dragon flew away To Gormson's hall renowned . 
Where the bowl goes bravely round . 
And the Danish king did place This youth of noble race Where , shield and sword in hand , He would aye defend his land . 
Eirik became afterwards a great chief . 
OLAF TRYGVASON'S JOURNEY FROM RUSSIA . 
, and highly esteemed by King Valdemar , and beloved by the queen . 
King Valdemar made him chief over the men at arms whom he sent out to defend the land . 
So says Hallarsteid The hater of the niggard band , The chief who loves the Northman's land , Was only twelve years old when he His Russian war ships put to sea . 
The wain that ploughs the sea was then Loaded with war gear by his men With swords , and spears , and helms and deep Out to the sea his good ships sweep . 
Olaf had several battles , and was lucky as a leader of troops . 
He himself kept a great many men at arms at his own expense out of the pay the king gave him . 
Olaf was very generous to his men , and therefore very popular . 
We do not , indeed , know what it is he can have to talk of so often with the queen . 
It so fell out that the king listened to such speeches , and became somewhat silent and blunt towards Olaf . 
The queen wished him a prosperous journey , and said he would be found a brave man wherever he might be . 
Olaf then made ready , went on board , and set out to sea in the Baltic . 
As he was coming from the east he made the island of Borgundarholm , where he landed and plundered . 
The country people hastened down to the strand , and gave him battle but Olaf gained the victory , and a large booty . 
They conducted themselves very peacefully , and remained some time . 
In Vindland there was then a king called Burizleif , who had three daughters , Geira , Gunhild , and Astrid . 
The king's daughter Geira had the power and government in that part where Olaf and his people landed , and Dixen was the name of the man who most usually advised Queen Geira . 
Olaf willingly accepted the invitation , and went in harvest to Queen Geira . 
EARL HAKON PAYS NO SCAT . 
to be well fortified , and his ships of war rigged out . 
He sent a message also to Earl Hakon in Norway to come to him early in spring , and with as many men as he could possibly raise . 
Earl Hakon levied an army over the whole country which was very numerous , and with it he sailed to meet the Danish king . 
The king received him in the most honourable manner . 
Many other chiefs also joined the Danish king with their men , so that he had gathered a very large army . 
to oppose the progress of Charlemagne . 
Some traces of it still exist . 
Early in spring Olaf rigged out his ships and set off to sea . 
He sailed to Skane and made a landing . 
The people of the country assembled , and gave him battle but King Olaf conquered , and made a great booty . 
He then sailed eastward to the island of Gotland , where he captured a merchant vessel belonging to the people of Jamtaland . 
They made a brave defence but the end of it was that Olaf cleared the deck , killed many of the men , and took all the goods . 
He had a third battle in Gotland , in which he also gained the victory , and made a great booty . 
OTTA AND HAKON IN BATTLE . 
The Emperor Otta assembled a great army from Saxland , Frakland , Frisland , and Vindland . 
King Burizleif followed him with a large army , and in it was his son in law , Olaf Trygvason . 
The emperor had a great body of horsemen , and still greater of foot people , and a great army from Holstein . 
Harald , the Danish king , sent Earl Hakon with the army of Northmen that followed him southwards to Danavirke , to defend his kingdom on that side . 
So it is told in the Vellekla Over the foaming salt sea spray The Norse sea horses took their way , Racing across the ocean plain Southwards to Denmark's green domain . 
The gallant chief of Hordaland Sat at the helm with steady hand , In casque and shield , his men to bring From Dovre to his friend the king . 
Glad was the Danish king , I trow , When he saw Hakon's galley's prow . 
The monarch straightway gave command To Hakon , with a steel clad band , To man the Dane work's rampart stout , And keep the foreign foemen out . 
The Emperor Otta came with his army from the south to Danavirke , but Earl Hakon defended the rampart with his men . 
Many of the emperor's people fell without making any impression on the fortification , so the emperor turned back without farther attempt at an assault on it . 
HARALD AND HAKON ARE BAPTIZED . 
The Emperor Otta turned back with his troops to Slesvik , collected his ships of war , and crossed the fjord of Sle into Jutland . 
As soon as the Danish king heard of this he marched his army against him , and there was a battle , in which the emperor at last got the victory . 
The Danish king fled to Limafjord and took refuge in the island Marsey . 
By the help of mediators who went between the king and the emperor , a truce and a meeting between them were agreed on . 
The Emperor Otta and the Danish king met upon Marsey . 
There Bishop Poppo instructed King Harald in the holy faith he bore red hot irons in his hands , and exhibited his unscorched hands to the king . 
Thereafter King Harald allowed himself to be baptized , and also the whole Danish army . 
The king sends word to the earl to come to him , and when they met the king forced the earl to allow himself also to be baptized . 
On that they separated and the earl went out to sea , there to wait for a wind . 
He then sailed eastward along Skane , plundering the country wherever he came . 
When he got east to the skerries of East Gautland , he ran in and landed , and made a great blood sacrifice . 
Then he set fire to his ships , landed his men , and went over all the country with armed hand . 
Earl Hakon now drove with fire and sword over both the Gautlands , until he came into Norway and then he proceeded by land all the way north to Throndhjem . 
A viking feast Earl Hakon kept , The land with viking fury swept , Harrying the land far from the shore Where foray ne'er was known before . 
Leaving the barren cold coast side , He raged through Gautland far and wide , Led many a gold decked viking shield O'er many a peaceful inland field . 
Bodies on bodies Odin found Heaped high upon each battle ground The moor , as if by witchcraft's power , Grows green , enriched by bloody shower . 
No wonder that the gods delight To give such luck in every fight To Hakon's men for he restores Their temples on our Norway shores . 
THE EMPEROR OTTA RETURNS HOME . 
The Emperor Otta went back to his kingdom in the Saxon land , and parted in friendship with the Danish king . 
It is said that the Emperor Otta stood godfather to Svein , King Harald's son , and gave him his name so that he was baptized Otta Svein . 
King Harald held fast by his Christianity to his dying day . 
King Burizleif went to Vindland , and his son in law King Olaf went with him . 
when Geira his queen fell sick , and she died of her illness . 
Olaf felt his loss so great that he had no pleasure in Vindland after it . 
He provided himself , therefore , with warships , and went out again a plundering , and plundered first in Frisland , next in Saxland , and then all the way to Flaemingjaland . 
So says Halfred Vandredaskald Olaf's broad axe of shining steel For the shy wolf left many a meal . 
The ill shaped Saxon corpses lay Heaped up , the witch wife's horses' prey . 
She rides by night at pools of blood . 
Where Frisland men in daylight stood , Her horses slake their thirst , and fly On to the field where Flemings lie . 
The raven friend in Odin's dress Olaf , who foes can well repress , Left Flemish flesh for many a meal With his broad axe of shining steel . 
ENDNOTES Ravens were the witches' horses . 
Thereafter Olaf Trygvason sailed to England , and ravaged wide around in the land . 
He sailed all the way north to Northumberland , where he plundered and thence to Scotland , where he marauded far and wide . 
Then he went to the Hebrides , where he fought some battles and then southwards to Man , where he also fought . 
He ravaged far around in Ireland , and thence steered to Bretland , which he laid waste with fire and sword , and all the district called Cumberland . 
He sailed westward from thence to Valland , and marauded there . 
When he left the west , intending to sail to England , he came to the islands called the Scilly Isles , lying westward from England in the ocean . 
Thus tells Halfred Vandraskald of these events The brave young king , who ne'er retreats , The Englishman in England beats . 
Death through Northumberland is spread From battleaxe and broad spearhead . 
Through Scotland with his spears he rides To Man his glancing ships he guides Feeding the wolves where'er he came , The young king drove a bloody game . 
The gallant bowmen in the isles Slew foemen , who lay heaped in piles . 
The Irish fled at Olaf's name Fled from a young king seeking fame . 
In Bretland , and in Cumberland , People against him could not stand Thick on the fields their corpses lay , To ravens and howling wolves a prey . 
, from the time he left Vindland till he came to the Scilly Islands . 
Olaf became curious to try this man's gift of prophecy . 
And more he would not say to that man . 
The man returned , and told Olaf , and his desire to meet the fortune teller was increased and now he had no doubt of his being really a fortune teller . 
The hermit replies in a holy spirit of prophecy , Thou wilt become a renowned king , and do celebrated deeds . 
Soon after Olaf went down to his ships , where he met some mutineers and people who would destroy him and his men . 
Then Olaf perceived that the man had spoken truth , that he was a true fortune teller , and had the gift of prophecy . 
Olaf went once more to the hermit , and asked particularly how he came to have such wisdom in foreseeing things to be . 
The hermit replied , that the Christian God himself let him know all that he desired and he brought before Olaf many great proofs of the power of the Almighty . 
In consequence of this encouragement Olaf agreed to let himself be baptized , and he and all his followers were baptized forthwith . 
He remained here a long time , took the true faith , and got with him priests and other learned men . 
Olaf sailed from Scilly to England , where he put into a harbour , but proceeded in a friendly way for England was Christian , and he himself had become Christian . 
At this time a summons to a Thing went through the country , that all men should come to hold a Thing . 
Now when the Thing was assembled a queen called Gyda came to it , a sister of Olaf Kvaran , who was king of Dublin in Ireland . 
She had been married to a great earl in England , and after his death she was at the head of his dominions . 
In her territory there was a man called Alfvine , who was a great champion and single combat man . 
Alfvine came there dressed out in his best clothes , and there were many well dressed men at the meeting . 
Olaf had come there also but had on his bad weather clothes , and a coarse over garment , and stood with his people apart from the rest of the crowd . 
Gyda went round and looked at each , to see if any appeared to her a suitable man . 
I am called Gyda , said she and am daughter of the king of Ireland , and was married in this country to an earl who ruled over this territory . 
Since his death I have ruled over it , and many have courted me , but none to whom I would choose to be married . 
She was a young and handsome woman . 
They afterwards talked over the matter together , and agreed , and Olaf and Gyda were betrothed . 
KING OLAF AND ALFVINE'S DUEL . 
Alfvine was very ill pleased with this . 
and now Alfvine challenges Olaf Trygvason to fight about this business . 
The time and place for the combat were settled , and that each should have twelve men with him . 
When they met , Olaf told his men to do exactly as they saw him do . 
He then bound him fast . 
It went in the same way with all Alfvine's men . 
They were beaten down , bound , and carried to Olaf's lodging . 
Thereupon he ordered Alfvine to quit the country , and never appear in it again and Olaf took all his property . 
Olaf in this way got Gyda in marriage , and lived sometimes in England , and sometimes in Ireland . 
Holm gang so called because the combatants went to a holm or uninhabited isle to fight in Norway . 
KING OLAF GETS HIS DOG VIGE . 
While Olaf was in Ireland he was once on an expedition which went by sea . 
As they required to make a foray for provisions on the coast , some of his men landed , and drove down a large herd of cattle to the strand . 
Now a peasant came up , and entreated Olaf to give him back the cows that belonged to him . 
Olaf told him to take his cows , if he could distinguish them but don't delay our march . 
The peasant had with him a large house dog , which he put in among the herd of cattle , in which many hundred head of beasts were driven together . 
Olaf then asked the peasant if he would sell him the dog . 
I would rather give him to you , said the peasant . 
Olaf immediately presented him with a gold ring in return , and promised him his friendship in future . 
This dog was called Vige , and was the very best of dogs , and Olaf owned him long afterwards . 
HARALD GORMSON SAILS AGAINST ICELAND . 
The Danish king , Harald Gormson , heard that Earl Hakon had thrown off Christianity , and had plundered far and wide in the Danish land . 
One of the king's bailiffs called Birger was to blame for this but the lampoons were made against both . 
In the lampoons were the following lines The gallant Harald in the field Between his legs lets drop his shield Into a pony he was changed . 
And kicked his shield , and safely ranged . 
And Birger , he who dwells in halls For safety built with four stone walls , That these might be a worthy pair , Was changed into a pony mare . 
HARALD SENDS A WARLOCK TO ICELAND . 
Then he turned to go westward around the land as far as Eyjafjord , and he went into the fjord . 
Then he swam farther west , and then south into Breidafjord . 
When he came into the fjord a large grey bull ran against him , wading into the sea , and bellowing fearfully , and he was followed by a crowd of land spirits . 
From thence he went round by Reykjanes , and wanted to land at Vikarsskeid , but there came down a hill giant against him with an iron staff in his hands . 
He was a head higher than the mountains , and many other giants followed him . 
At that time Brodhelge dwelt in Vapnafjord , Eyjolf Valgerdson in Eyjafjord , Thord Geller in Breidafjord , and Thorod Gode in Olfus . 
Then the Danish king turned about with his fleet , and sailed back to Denmark . 
Hakon the earl settled habitations again in the country that had been laid waste , and paid no scat as long as he lived to Denmark . 
, asked his father King Harald for a part of his kingdom but now , as before , Harald would not listen to dividing the Danish dominions , and giving him a kingdom . 
Svein instantly gave battle , and the combat was severe . 
So many people flew to assist King Harald , that Svein was overpowered by numbers , and fled . 
But King Harald received a wound which ended in his death and Svein was chosen King of Denmark . 
At this time Sigvalde was earl over Jomsborg in Vindland . 
He was a son of King Strutharald , who had ruled over Skane . 
Heming , and Thorkel the Tall , were Sigvalde's brothers . 
The king knew that they would torture him to death , and therefore agreed to accept the earl's mediation . 
Then King Svein returned home to Denmark with his wife Gunhild . 
Their sons were Harald and Knut the Great . 
At that time the Danes threatened much to bring an army into Norway against Earl Hakon . 
VOW OF THE JOMSBORG VIKINGS . 
The Jomsborg vikings came to the festival with their bravest men , forty ships of them from Vindland , and twenty ships from Skane . 
Great was the multitude of people assembled . 
, or chase him out of the country . 
This heirship bowl all who were at the feast drank . 
Thereafter for the chiefs of the Jomsborg vikings was filled and drunk the largest horn to be found , and of the strongest drink . 
When that bowl was emptied , all men drank Christ's health and again the fullest measure and the strongest drink were handed to the Jomsborg vikings . 
The third bowl was to the memory of Saint Michael , which was drunk by all . 
Thereupon Thorkel the Tall , his brother , made a solemn vow to follow his brother Sigvalde to Norway , and not flinch from the battle so long as Sigvalde would fight there . 
Then Bue the Thick vowed to follow them to Norway , and not flinch so long as the other Jomsborg vikings fought . 
Many other chiefs made solemn vows about different things . 
Thus was the heirship ale drunk that day , but the next morning , when the Jomsborg vikings had slept off their drink , they thought they had spoken more than enough . 
EIRIK AND HAKON MAKE A WAR LEVY . 
I hear that in the Danish land Long sided ships slide down the strand , And , floating with the rising tide , The ocean coursers soon will ride . 
They summoned all the country to provide both men and ships . 
His mighty fleet comes sailing by , The people run to see them glide , Mast after mast , by the coast side . 
Earl Hakon set out immediately to the south , to More , to reconnoitre and gather people and Earl Eirik gathered an army from the north to follow . 
EXPEDITION OF THE JOMSBORG VIKINGS . 
The Jomsborg vikings assembled their fleet in Limafjord , from whence they went to sea with sixty sail of vessels . 
The earl asked if he had any certainty of it . 
Then Geirmund stretched forth one arm , from which the hand was cut off , and said , Here is the token that the enemy is in the land . 
Then the earl questioned him particularly about this army . 
Geirmund says it consists of Jomsborg vikings , who have killed many people , and plundered all around . 
And hastily and hotly they pushed on , says he and I expect it will not be long before they are upon you . 
He sent spies out upon the upper ridges , and also southwards into the Fjords and he proceeded north to meet Eirik with his men . 
Rollers beneath the ships' keels crash , Oar blades loud in the grey sea splash , And they who give the ravens food Row fearless through the curling flood . 
Eirik hastened southwards with his forces the shortest way he could . 
Earl Sigvalde steered with his fleet northwards around Stad , and came to the land at the Herey Isles . 
Although the vikings fell in with the country people , the people never told the truth about what the earl was doing and the vikings went on pillaging and laying waste . 
What says the old man ? asked some . 
Bue ran now with his people in all haste down to the ships , leaving all the booty behind . 
Bue said , Let us avail ourselves now of this news we have got of the earl , and be the first to the victory . 
When they came to their ships they rode off from the land . 
Earl Sigvalde called to them , and asked what they were about . 
They replied , The earl is in the fjord on which Earl Sigvalde with the whole fleet set off , and rowed north about the island Hod . 
BATTLE WITH THE JOMSBORG VIKINGS . 
The earls Hakon and Eirik lay in Halkelsvik , where all their forces were assembled . 
When they reached a place called Hjorungavag they met each other , and both sides drew up their ships in line for an attack . 
Earl Sigvalde's banner was displayed in the midst of his army , and right against it Earl Hakon arranged his force for attack . 
Earl Sigvalde himself had ships , but Earl Hakon had . 
In Earl's army were these chiefs , Thorer Hjort from Halogaland , and Styrkar from Gimsar . 
In the wing of the opposite array of the Jomsborg vikings was Bue the Thick , and his brother Sigurd , with ships . 
Against him Earl Eirik laid himself with ships and with him were these chiefs , Gudbrand Hvite from the Uplands , and Thorkel Leira from Viken . 
The Danish ships , of court men full , Were cleared of men , and many a hull Was driving empty on the main , With the warm corpses of the slain . 
Then the fleets came together , and one of the sharpest of conflicts began . 
Many fell on both sides , but the most by far on Hakon's side for the Jomsborg vikings fought desperately , sharply , and murderously , and shot right through the shields . 
So many spears were thrown against Earl Hakon that his armour was altogether split asunder , and he threw it off . 
So says Tind Halkelson The ring linked coat of strongest mail Could not withstand the iron hail , Though sewed with care and elbow bent , By Norn , on its strength intent . 
Norn , one of the Fates , stands here for women , whose business it was to sew the rings of iron upon the cloth which made these ring mail coats or shirts . 
The needles , although some of them were of gold , appear to have been without eyes , and used like shoemaker's awls . 
The Jomsborg vikings had larger and higher sided ships and both parties fought desperately . 
Vagn Akason laid his ship on board of Svein Earl Hakon's son's ship , and Svein allowed his ship to give way , and was on the point of flying . 
Then Earl Eirik came up , and laid his ship alongside of Vagn , and then Vagn gave way , and the ships came to lie in the same position as before . 
Thereupon Eirik goes to the other wing , which had gone back a little , and Bue had cut the ropes , intending to pursue them . 
Then Eirik laid himself , board to board , alongside of Bue's ship , and there was a severe combat hand to hand . 
Two or three of Eirik's ships then laid themselves upon Bue's single vessel . 
A thunder storm came on at this moment , and such a heavy hail storm that every hailstone weighed a pennyweight . 
The Earl Sigvalde cut his cable , turned his ship round , and took flight . 
Earl Sigvalde rowed away with ships , leaving of his fleet behind . 
Then Earl Hakon laid his ship on the other side of Bue's ship , and now came heavy blows on Bue's men . 
Before this no weapon could wound this Aslak , who was Bue's foster brother , and forecastle commander , although he could wound right and left . 
Another man among the strongest and bravest was Havard Hoggande . 
In this attack Eirik's men boarded Bue's ship , and went aft to the quarter deck where Bue stood . 
Then Bue lifted up two chests full of gold , and called aloud , Overboard all Bue s men , and threw himself overboard with his two chests . 
Many of his people sprang overboard with him . 
Some fell in the ship , for it was of no use to call for quarter . 
Bue's ship was cleared of people from stem to stern , and afterwards all the others , the one after the other . 
VIKINGS BOUND TOGETHER IN ONE CHAIN . 
Then came up Thorkel Leira , and said , Thou madest a solemn vow , Vagn , to kill me , but now it seems more likely that I will kill thee . 
Vagn and his men sat all upon a log of wood together . 
Thorkel had an axe in his hands , with which he cut at him who sat outmost on the log . 
Vagn and the other prisoners were bound so that a rope was fastened on their feet , but they had their hands free . 
His head was cut off , but the cloak pin fell from his hand . 
There sat also a very handsome man with long hair , who twisted his hair over his head , put out his neck , and said , Don't make my hair bloody . 
A man took the hair in his hands and held it fast . 
Then Earl Eirik came up , and asked , Who is that handsome man ? He replies , I am called Sigurd , and am Bue's son . 
But are all the Jomsborg vikings dead ? Eirik says , Thou art certainly Boe's son . 
Wilt thou now take life and peace ? That depends , says he , upon who it is that offers it . 
He offers who has the power to do it Earl Eirik . 
That will I , says he , from his hands . 
And now the rope was loosened from him . 
Then said Thorkel Leira , Although thou should give all these men life and peace , earl , Vagn Akason shall never come from this with life . 
Then said the earl , Vagn , wilt thou accept life ? That I will , says he , if you give it to all of us . 
Loose them from the rope , said the earl , and it was done . 
Eighteen were killed , and twelve got their lives . 
DEATH OF GISSUR OF VALDERS . 
, and he had a bow in his hand . 
When they came on board the ship Havard asked , Who fell by that shaft ? They answered , A man called Gissur . 
Then my luck was less than I thought , said he . 
Great enough was the misfortune , replied they but thou shalt not make it greater . 
And they killed him on the spot . 
The dead were then ransacked , and the booty brought all together to be divided and there were twenty five ships of the Jomsborg vikings in the booty . 
So says Tind Many a viking's body lay Dead on the deck this bloody day , Before they cut their sun dried ropes , And in quick flight put all their hopes . 
He whom the ravens know afar Cleared five and twenty ships of war A proof that in the furious fight None can withstand the Norsemen's might . 
Earl Hakon went to Throndhjem , and was much displeased that Earl Eirik had given quarter to Vagn Akason . 
Earl Eirik went to the Uplands , and eastward by that route to his own kingdom , taking Vagn Akason with him . 
Then Vagn went home south to Denmark , and became afterwards a man of great consideration , and many great people are descended from him . 
Harald Grenske , as before related , was king in Vestfold , and was married to Asta , a daughter of Gudbrand Kula . 
Harald Grenske made an expedition to the Baltic to gather property , and he came to Svithjod . 
Olaf the Swede was king there , a son of Eirik the Victorious , and Sigrid , a daughter of Skoglartoste . 
Sigrid was then a widow , and had many and great estates in Svithjod . 
When she heard that her foster brother was come to the country a short distance from her , she sent men to him to invite him to a feast . 
He did not neglect the invitation , but came to her with a great attendance of his followers , and was received in the most friendly way . 
He and the queen sat in the high seat , and drank together towards the evening , and all his men were entertained in the most hospitable manner . 
The king was drunk above measure , and , indeed , so were they both . 
Then he slept , and the queen went away , and laid herself down also . 
Sigrid was a woman of the greatest understanding , and clever in many things . 
In the morning there was also the most excellent entertainment but then it went on as usual when people have drunk too much , that next day they take care not to exceed . 
With that observation the king was nowise pleased , and he found no pleasure in anything after that , but made himself ready for his journey in an ill humor . 
On the other hand , the queen was remarkably gay , and made him many presents , and followed him out to the road . 
Now Harald returned about harvest to Norway , and was at home all winter but was very silent and cast down . 
In summer he went once more to the Baltic with his ships , and steered to Svithjod . 
He sent a message to Queen Sigrid that he wished to have a meeting with her and she rode down to meet him . 
They talked together and he soon brought out the proposal that she should marry him . 
She replied , that this was foolish talk for him , who was so well married already that he might think himself well off . 
Harald says , Asta is a good and clever woman but she is not so well born as I am . 
Sigrid replies , It may be that thou art of higher birth , but I think she is now pregnant with both your fortunes . 
They exchanged but few words more before the queen rode away . 
King Harald was now depressed in mind , and prepared himself again to ride up the country to meet Queen Sigrid . 
Many of his people dissuaded him but nevertheless he set off with a great attendance , and came to the house in which the queen dwelt . 
The same evening came another king , called Vissavald , from Gardarike , likewise to pay his addresses to Queen Sigrid . 
Then Queen Sigrid ordered an attack on them in the night , both with fire and sword . 
The house was burnt , with all who were in it and those who slipped out were put to the sword . 
Sigrid said that she would make these small kings tired of coming to court her . 
She was afterwards called Sigrid the Haughty . 
BIRTH OF OLAF , SON OF HARALD GRENSKE . 
This happened the winter after the battle of the Jomsborg vikings at Hjorungavag . 
When Harald went up the country after Sigrid , he left Hrane behind with the ships to look after the men . 
Now when Hrane heard that Harald was cut off , he returned to Norway the shortest way he could , and told the news . 
He repaired first to Asta , and related to her all that had happened on the journey , and also on what errand Harald had visited Queen Sigrid . 
Asta , Gudbrand's daughter , was confined , and had a boy child , who had water poured over him , and was called Olaf . 
Hrane himself poured water over him , and the child was brought up at first in the house of Gudbrand and his mother Asta . 
Earl Hakon ruled over the whole outer part of Norway that lies on the sea , and had thus sixteen districts under his sway . 
The arrangement introduced by Harald Harfager , that there should be an earl in each district , was afterward continued for a long time and thus Earl Hakon had sixteen earls under him . 
When tales at the viking's mast go round , His praise will every mouth resound . 
While Earl Hakon ruled over Norway there were good crops in the land , and peace was well preserved in the country among the bondes . 
From the conversation of some people , he fell upon the suspicion that he must be of the royal race of Norway . 
The earl had carefully inquired about this man , and had his suspicion that he must be the same person who had now come to these western countries . 
The earl had a very good friend called Thorer Klakka , who had been long upon viking expeditions , sometimes also upon merchant voyages so that he was well acquainted all around . 
OLAF TRYGVASON COMES TO NORWAY . 
On this Thorer sails westward to Ireland , and hears that Ole is in Dublin with his wife's father King Olaf Kvaran . 
He asked also about Earl Hakon , and if he was much liked in the country . 
But we know of no one suited for this , especially now that it is proved how vain every attack on Earl Hakon must be . 
Thorer encouraged him very eagerly to the enterprise , and praised him and his talents highly . 
Then Olaf's inclination to go to the heritage of his ancestors became strong . 
Olaf sailed accordingly , accompanied by Thorer , with five ships first to the Hebrides , and from thence to the Orkneys . 
At that time Earl Sigurd , Hlodver's son , lay in Osmundswall , in the island South Ronaldsa , with a ship of war , on his way to Caithness . 
In the position the earl found himself , he preferred becoming Christian , and he and all who were with him were baptized . 
, as an hostage and the king took Hvelp to Norway with him . 
Thereafter Olaf went out to sea to the eastward , and made the land at Morster Island , where he first touched the ground of Norway . 
He had high mass sung in a tent , and afterwards on the spot a church was built . 
When he came north to Agdanes , he heard that the earl was in the fjord , and was in discord with the bondes . 
Earl Hakon was at a feast in Medalhus in Gaulardal and his ships lay out by Viggja . 
There was a powerful bonde , by name Orm Lyrgja , who dwelt in Bunes , who had a wife called Gudrun , a daughter of Bergthor of Lundar . 
She was called the Lundasol for she was the most beautiful of women . 
The earl sent his slaves to Orm , with the errand that they should bring Orm's wife , Gudrun , to the earl . 
Gudrun told the thralls to tell the earl that she would not come to him , unless he sent Thora of Rimul after her . 
Thora was a woman of great influence , and one of the earl's best beloved . 
The thralls say that they will come another time , and both the bonde and his wife would be made to repent of it and they departed with many threats . 
Orm , on the other hand , sent out a message token to all the neighbouring country , and with it the message to attack Earl Hakon with weapons and kill him . 
He sent also a message to Haldor in Skerdingsstedja , who also sent out his message token . 
A short time before , the earl had taken away the wife of a man called Brynjolf , and there had very nearly been an insurrection about that business . 
Having now again got this message token , the people made a general revolt , and set out all to Medalhus . 
Later in the day , the earl got news of the bondes' army . 
They had beset all the roads but believed the earl had escaped to his ships , which his son Erlend , a remarkably handsome and hopeful young man , had the command of . 
Send a message to Erlend to sail out of the fjord , and meet me in More . 
In the mean time I will conceal myself from the bondes . 
Then the earl went his way with one thrall or slave , called Kark , attending him . 
, and the earl drove his horse upon it , and left his coat lying upon the ice . 
The earl said that his son Erlend must be killed . 
From this dream the earl began to suspect that it betokened a short life to him . 
They stood up , and went to the house of Rimul . 
The earl now sends Kark to Thora , and begs of her to come secretly to him . 
She did so and received the earl kindly and he begged her to conceal him for a few nights until the army of the bondes had dispersed . 
Here about my house , said she , you will be hunted after , both inside and outside for many know that I would willingly help you if I can . 
There is but one place about the house where they could never expect to find such a man as you , and that is the swine stye . 
When they came there the earl said , Well , let it be made ready for us as to save our life is the first and foremost concern . 
The slave dug a great hole in it , bore away the earth that he dug out , and laid wood over it . 
Thora brought the tidings to the earl that Olaf Trygvason had come from sea into the fjord , and had killed his son Erlend . 
Then the earl and Kark both went into the hole . 
Thora covered it with wood , and threw earth and dung over it , and drove the swine upon the top of it . 
The swine style was under a great stone . 
Olaf Trygvason came from sea into the fjord with five long ships , and Erlend , Hakon's son , rowed towards him with three ships . 
When the vessels came near to each other , Erlend suspected they might be enemies , and turned towards the land . 
Olaf saw a remarkably handsome man swimming in the water , and laid hold of a tiller and threw it at him . 
The tiller struck Erlend , the son of Hakon the earl , on the head , and clove it to the brain and there left Erlend his life . 
Olaf and his people killed many but some escaped , and some were made prisoners , and got life and freedom that they might go and tell what had happened . 
They learned then that the bondes had driven away Earl Hakon , and that he had fled , and his troops were all dispersed . 
The bondes then met Olaf , to the joy of both , and they made an agreement together . 
The bondes took Olaf to be their king , and resolved , one and all , to seek out Earl Hakon . 
They come up , therefore , and search everywhere , outside and inside the house , but could not find him . 
This speech was heard by the earl and the thrall Kark . 
They had a light in their room . 
Why art thou so pale , says the earl , and now again black as earth ? Thou hast not the intention to betray me ? By no means , replies Kark . 
We were born on the same night , says the earl , and the time will be short between our deaths . 
King Olaf went away in the evening . 
When night came the earl kept himself awake but Kark slept , and was disturbed in his sleep . 
The earl woke him , and asked him what he was dreaming of ? He answered , I was at Hlader and Olaf Trygvason was laying a gold ring about my neck . 
The earl says , It will be a red ring Olaf will lay about thy neck if he catches thee . 
Take care of that ! From me thou shalt enjoy all that is good , therefore betray me not . 
They then kept themselves awake both the one , as it were , watching upon the other . 
On this Kark , dreadfully alarmed , drew a large knife out of his belt , stuck it in the earl's throat , and cut it across , and killed Earl Hakon . 
Then Kark cut off the earl's head , and ran away . 
Late in the day he came to Hlader , where he delivered the earl's head to King Olaf , and told all these circumstances of his own and Earl Hakon's doings . 
Olaf had him taken out and beheaded . 
King Olaf , and a vast number of bondes with him , then went out to Nidarholm , and had with him the heads of Earl Hakon and Kark . 
This holm was used then for a place of execution of thieves and ill doers , and there stood a gallows on it . 
They then sent up to Gaulardal for the earl's dead body . 
So says Thorleif Raudfeldson In Norway's land was never known A braver earl than the brave Hakon . 
At sea , beneath the clear moon's light , No braver man e'er sought to fight . 
Olaf Trvgvason was chosen at Throndhjem by the General Thing to be the king over the whole country , as Harald Harfager had been . 
The whole public and the people throughout all the land would listen to nothing else than that Olaf Trygvason should be king . 
When the host came from out the West , Like some tall stately war ship's mast , I saw the son of Trygve stand , Surveying proud his native land . 
And again , Eirik has more upon his mind , Against the new Norse king designed , Than by his words he seems to show And truly it may well be so . 
Stubborn and stiff are Throndhjem men , But Throndhjem's earl may come again In Swedish land he knows no rest Fierce wrath is gathering in his breast . 
LODIN'S MARRIAGE Lodin was the name of a man from Viken who was rich and of good family . 
He went often on merchant voyages , and sometimes on viking cruises . 
It happened one summer that he went on a merchant voyage with much merchandise in a ship of his own . 
He directed his course first to Eistland , and was there at a market in summer . 
To the place at which the market was held many merchant goods were brought , and also many thralls or slaves for sale . 
But now she was altogether unlike what she had been when he last saw her for now she was pale , meagre in countenance , and ill clad . 
He went up to her , and asked her how matters stood with her . 
She replied , It is heavy to be told for I have been sold as a slave , and now again I am brought here for sale . 
After speaking together a little Astrid knew him , and begged him to buy her and bring her home to her friends . 
On this condition , said he , I will bring thee home tn Norway , that thou wilt marry me . 
Now as Astrid stood in great need , and moreover knew that Lodin was a man of high birth , rich , and brave , she promised to do so for her ransom . 
Lodin accordingly bought Astrid , took her home to Norway with him , and married her with her friends' consent . 
Their children were Thorkel Nefia , Ingerid , and Ingegerd . 
Ingebjorg and Astrid were daughters of Astrid by King Trygve . 
Eirik Bjodaskalle's sons were Sigird , Karlshofud , Jostein , and Thorkel Dydril , who were all rich and brave people who had estates east in the country . 
In Viken in the east dwelt two brothers , rich and of good descent one called Thorgeir , and the other Hyrning and they married Lodin and Astrid's daughters , Ingerid and Ingegerd . 
OLAF BAPTIZES THE COUNTRY OF VIKEN . 
When Harald Gormson , king of Denmark , had adopted Christianity , he sent a message over all his kingdom that all people should be baptized , and converted to the true faith . 
He himself followed his message , and used power and violence where nothing else would do . 
He sent two earls , Urguthrjot and Brimilskjar , with many people to Norway , to proclaim Christianity there . 
In Viken , which stood directly under the king's power , this succeeded , and many were baptized of the country folk . 
He would , he declared , either bring it to this , that all Norway should be Christian , or die . 
I shall make you all , said he , great and mighty men in promoting this work for I trust to you most , as blood relations or brothers in law . 
All agreed to do what he asked , and to follow him in what he desired . 
and the following winter all Viken was made Christian . 
King Olaf set out from Viken with a great force northwards to Agder , and proclaimed that every man should be baptized . 
And thus the people received Christianity , for nobody dared oppose the king's will , wheresoever he came . 
In Hordaland , however , were many bold and great men of Hordakare's race . 
All the people of the Thing accordingly were baptized before the Thing was dissolved . 
King Olaf went with his men at arms to the Gula Thing for the bondes had sent him word that they would reply there to his speech . 
Then said Olmod the Old , We relations have considered together this matter , and have come to one resolution . 
Thereupon the king spoke to his sister . 
I will rather wait a few years for a better match . 
King Olaf took a falcon that belonged to Astrid , plucked off all its feathers , and then sent it to her . 
Then said Astrid , Angry is my brother . 
And she stood up , and went to the king , who received her kindly , and she said that she left it to the king to determine her marriage . 
I think , said the king , that I must have power enough in this land to raise any man I please to high dignity . 
Then the king ordered Olmod and Erling to be called to a conference , and all their relations and the marriage was determined upon , and Astrid betrothed to Erling . 
Erling Skjalgson had his wedding in summer , and a great many people were assembled at it . 
King Olaf was also there , and offered Erling an earldom . 
RAUMSDAL AND FJORD DISTRICTS BAPTIZED . 
King Olaf came there with a great many people who had followed him from the eastward , and also with those who had joined him from Rogaland and Hordaland . 
When the king came to the Thing , he proposed to them there , as elsewhere , Christianity and as the king had such a powerful host with him , they were frightened . 
The king offered them two conditions , either to accept Christianity , or to fight . 
But the bondes saw they were in no condition to fight the king , and resolved , therefore , that all the people should agree to be baptized . 
The king proceeded afterwards to North More , and baptized all that district . 
In the meantime King Olaf sailed with a war force out of the fjord along the coast northward , intending to proceed to Halogaland , and baptize there . 
When he came north to Bjarnaurar , he heard from Halogaland that a force was assembled there to defend the country against the king . 
The chiefs of this force were Harek of Thjotta , Thorer Hjort from Vagar , and Eyvind Kinrifa . 
OLAF PROPOSES MARRIAGE TO QUEEN SIGRID . 
Thereupon King Olaf sent to Queen Sigrid the great gold ring he had taken from the temple door of Hlader , which was considered a distinguished ornament . 
The meeting for concluding the business was appointed to be in spring on the frontier , at the Gaut river . 
Then they said the ring is false . 
Upon this she ordered the ring to be broken into pieces , and it was found to be copper inside . 
Then the queen was enraged , and said that Olaf would deceive her in more ways than this one . 
King Olaf went into Ringenke , and there the people also were baptized . 
Asta , the daughter of Gudbrand , soon after the fall of Harald Grenske married again a man who was called Sigurd Syr , who was a king in Ringerike . 
Sigurd was a son of Halfdan , and grandson of Sigurd Hrise , who was a son of Harald Harfager . 
Olaf , the son of Asta and Harald Grenske , lived with Asta , and was brought up from childhood in the house of his stepfather , Sigurd Syr . 
Olaf was then three years old . 
Olaf returned from thence to Viken , where he remained all winter . 
He had now been three years king in Norway . 
MEETING OF OLAF AND SIGRID . 
Sigrid said , This may some day be thy death . 
The king set off to Viken , the queen to Svithjod . 
Eyvind was a sorcerer , and particularly knowing in witchcraft . 
The king let all these men be seated in one room , which was well adorned , and made a great feast for them , and gave them strong drink in plenty . 
When the people came to the king with such a message from Eyvind , the king was ill pleased that Eyvind had escaped death . 
came King Olaf went out to Viken , and was on visits to his great farms . 
He sent notice over all Viken that he would call out an army in summer , and proceed to the north parts of the country . 
men , and came on Easter evening north to Ogvaldsnes , in Kormt Island , where an Easter feast was prepared for him . 
That same night came Eyvind Kelda to the island with a well manned long ship , of which the whole crew consisted of sorcerers and other dealers with evil spirits . 
Eyvind went from his ship to the land with his followers , and there they played many of their pranks of witchcraft . 
When the king's watchman saw them going about , without knowing what people these were , they told the king . 
The king's men discovered it was Eyvind , took him and all his company prisoners , and brought them to the king . 
Eyvind now told all he had done on his journey . 
Then the king ordered these all to be taken out to a skerry which was under water in flood tide , and there to be left bound . 
Eyvind and all with him left their lives on this rock , and the skerry is still called Skrattasker . 
He was one eyed , and had something to tell of every land . 
Among other things , the king asked him if he knew who the Ogvald had been who had given his name both to the ness and to the house . 
This same King Ogvald had a battle with a king called Varin , in which battle Ogvald fell . 
He was buried under a mound close to the house and there stands his stone over him , and close to it his cow also is laid . 
Such and many other things , and ancient events , the king inquired after . 
Now , when the king had sat late into the night , the bishop reminded him that it was time to go to bed , and the king did so . 
Then the bishop observed to the king , it was time to go to sleep , and the king did so and the guest went out . 
Soon after the king awoke , asked for the guest , and ordered him to be called , but the guest was not to be found . 
The morning after , the king ordered his cook and cellar master to be called , and asked if any strange person had been with them . 
King Olaf collected a great army in the east of the country towards summer , and sailed with it north to Nidaros in the Throndhjem country . 
Now when the king met the Thing , the whole people came fully armed . 
And in this all agreed and as the king spoke mildly and friendly with the bondes , their answer was appeased , and their conference with the king went off peacefully . 
At the close of it a midsummer sacrifice was fixed to take place in Maeren , and all chiefs and great bondes to attend it as usual . 
The king was to be at it . 
There was a great bonde called Skegge , and sometimes Jarnskegge , or Iron Beard , who dwelt in Uphaug in Yrjar . 
He spoke first at the Thing to Olaf and was the foremost man of the bondes in speaking against Christianity . 
The Thing was concluded in this way for that time , the bondes returned home , and the king went to Hlader . 
When the feast was ready , and the chiefs assembled , there was a handsome entertainment the first evening , at which plenty of liquor went round . 
and the guests were made very drunk . 
The night after they all slept in peace . 
Now if I , along with you , shall turn again to making sacrifice , then will I make the greatest of sacrifices that are in use and I will sacrifice men . 
All these , he said , he would offer in sacrifice to the gods for peace and a fruitful season and ordered them to be laid hold of immediately . 
Now when the bondes saw that they were not strong enough to make head against the king , they asked for peace , and submitted wholly to the king's pleasure . 
The king then kept all these men as hostages who came to his feast , until they sent him their sons , brothers , or other near relations . 
OF THE THING IN THRONDHJEM . 
There was thus a greater multitude of bondes than there had been at the Frosta Thing . 
Jarnskegge replies on the part of the bondes , and says that the will of the bondes is now , as formerly , that the king should not break their laws . 
We want , king , said he , that thou shouldst offer sacrifice , as other kings before thee have done . 
All the bondes applauded his speech with a loud shout , and said they would have all things according to what Skegge said . 
Then the king said he would go into the temple of their gods with them , and see what the practices were when they sacrificed . 
The bondes thought well of this proceeding , and both parties went to the temple . 
The king lifted up his gold inlaid axe which he carried in his hands , and struck Thor so that the image rolled down from its seat . 
When the king came forth out of the temple he offered the bondes two conditions , that all should accept of Christianity forthwith , or that they should fight with him . 
A TOWN IN THE THRONDHJEM COUNTRY . 
The king's house he had built just opposite Skipakrok and he transported thither , in harvest , all that was necessary for his winter residence , and had many people about him there . 
Jarnskegge had a daughter called Gudrun and at last it was agreed upon between the parties that the king should take her in marriage . 
When the wedding day came King Olaf and Gudrun went to bed together . 
Gudrun also took her clothes , and went away along with all her men who had followed her thither . 
Gudrun never came into the king's bed again . 
BUILDING OF THE SHIP CRANE . 
King Olaf laid the keel of a great long ship out on the strand at the river Nid . 
It was a snekkja and he employed many carpenters upon her , so that early in winter the vessel was ready . 
It had thirty benches for rowers , was high in stem and stern , but was not broad . 
The king called this ship Tranen . 
After Jarnskegge's death his body was carried to Yrjar , and lies there in the Skegge mound on Austrat . 
THANGBRAND THE PRIEST GOES TO ICELAND . 
The king would not have him in his house upon account of his misdeeds but gave him the errand to go to Iceland , and bring that land to the Christian faith . 
Thorvald Veile and Veterlide the skald composed a satire about Thangbrand but he killed them both outright . 
Thangbrand was two years in Iceland , and was the death of three men before he left it . 
There was a man called Sigurd , and another called Hauk , both of Halogaland , who often made merchant voyages . 
they had made a voyage westward to England and when they came back to Norway they sailed northwards along the coast , and at North More they met King Olaf's people . 
The king spoke with them in many ways , but to no purpose . 
He then threatened them with death and torture but they would not allow themselves to be moved . 
He then had them laid in irons , and kept them in chains in his house for some time , and often conversed with them , but in vain . 
At last one night they disappeared , without any man being able to conjecture how they got away . 
But about harvest they came north to Harek of Thjotta , who received them kindly , and with whom they stopped all winter , and were hospitably entertained . 
that Harek was at home in his house with only few people , and time hung heavy on his hands . 
Sigurd asked him if he would row a little for amusement . 
Harek went out into the boat to hang the rudder . 
The brothers Sigurd and Hauk , who were very strong men , were fully armed , as they were used to go about at home among the peasants . 
Before they went out to the boat they threw into her some butter kits and a bread chest , and carried between them a great keg of ale . 
When they had rowed a short way from the island the brothers hoisted the sail , while Harek was seated at the helm and they sailed away from the island . 
Harek saw how matters stood with him . 
On this Sigurd took the helm , and steered south along the land , the brothers taking particular care that they did not encounter people . 
The wind was very favourable and they held on sailing along until they came south to Throndhjem and to Nidaros , where they found the king . 
Then the king called Harek to him , and in a conference desired him to be baptized . 
Harek made objections and although the king and Harek talked over it many times , sometimes in the presence of other people , and sometimes alone , they could not agree upon it . 
Harek was well pleased to get away as fast as he could . 
Harek of Thjotta went away from the town as fast as he could but Hauk and Sigurd remained in the king's house , and both took baptism . 
Harek pursued his voyage until he came to Thjotta . 
He sent immediately a message to his friend Eyvind Kinrifa , with the word that he had been with King Olaf but would not let himself be cowed down to accept Christianity . 
When this message was delivered to Eyvind , he saw how very necessary it was to devise some counsel to avoid falling into the king's hands . 
He set out , therefore , in a light vessel with a few hands as fast as he could . 
When he came to Thjotta he was received by Harek in the most friendly way , and they immediately entered into conversation with each other behind the house . 
They did not halt on their voyage until they came to Throndhjem , and presented themselves to King Olaf at Nidaros . 
Then Eyvind was brought up to a conference with the king , who asked him to allow himself to be baptized , like other people but Eyvind decidedly answered he would not . 
The king still , with persuasive words , urged him to accept Christianity , and both he and the bishop used many suitable arguments but Eyvind would not allow himself to be moved . 
The king offered him gifts and great fiefs , but Eyvind refused all . 
Then the king threatened him with tortures and death , but Eyvind was steadfast . 
Then the king ordered a pan of glowing coals to be placed upon Eyvind's belly , which burst asunder . 
Eyvind cried , Take away the pan , and I will say something before I die , which also was done . 
With that died Eyvind , who had been one of the greatest sorcerers . 
King Olaf fitted out and manned his ships , and commanded himself his ship the Crane . 
He had many and smart people with him and when he was ready , he sailed northwards with his fleet past Bryda , and to Halogaland . 
Wheresoever he came to the land , or to the islands , he held a Thing , and told the people to accept the right faith , and to be baptized . 
No man dared to say anything against it , and the whole country he passed through was made Christian . 
King Olaf was a guest in the house of Harek of Thjotta , who was baptized with all his people . 
At parting the king gave Harek good presents and he entered into the king's service , and got fiefs , and the privileges of lendsman from the king . 
There was a bonde , by name Raud the Strong , who dwelt in Godey in Salten fjord . 
Raud was a very rich man , who had many house servants and likewise was a powerful man , who had many Fins in his service when he wanted them . 
Raud was a great idolater , and very skillful in witchcraft , and was a great friend of Thorer Hjort , before spoken of . 
Raud had a large ship with a gilded head formed like a dragon , which ship had thirty rowing benches , and even for that kind of ship was very large . 
Thorer Hjort had also a large ship . 
These men sailed southwards with their ships against King Olaf , and as soon as they met gave battle . 
Raud rode with his dragon out to sea , and set sail . 
Raud had always a fair wind wheresoever he wished to sail , which came from his arts of witchcraft and , to make a short story , he came home to Godey . 
Thorer Hjort fled from the ships up to the land but King Olaf landed people , followed those who fled , and killed them . 
Usually the king was the foremost in such skirmishes , and was so now . 
When the king saw where Thorer Hjort , who was quicker on foot than any man , was running to , he ran after him with his dog Vige . 
The king said , Vige ! Vige ! Catch the deer . 
Vige ran straight in upon him on which Thorer halted , and the king threw a spear at him . 
There Thorer left his life but Vige was carried to the ships . 
KING OLAF'S VOYAGE TO GODEY . 
King Olaf gave life and freedom to all the men who asked it and agreed to become Christian . 
Then the king continued his voyage north to Omd , where all the people submitted to Christianity . 
Bishop Sigurd took all his mass robes and went forward to the bow of the king's ship ordered tapers to be lighted , and incense to be brought out . 
The king ordered all the other ships to follow him . 
And so the one ship followed the other in the smooth sea track and they proceeded this way the whole day and night , until they reached Godey . 
Now when they came to Raud's house his great ship , the dragon , was afloat close to the land . 
King Olaf went up to the house immediately with his people made an attack on the loft in which Raud was sleeping , and broke it open . 
The men rushed in Raud was taken and bound , and of the people with him some were killed and some made prisoners . 
Then the king's men went to a lodging in which Raud's house servants slept , and killed some , bound others , and beat others . 
Then the king ordered Raud to be brought before him , and offered him baptism . 
And , says the king , I will not take thy property from thee , but rather be thy friend , if thou wilt make thyself worthy to be so . 
Raud exclaimed with all his might against the proposal , saying he would never believe in Christ , and making his scoff of God . 
Then the king was wroth , and said Raud should die the worst of deaths . 
Then the king ordered an adder to be stuck into the mouth of him but the serpent would not go into his mouth , but shrunk back when Raud breathed against it . 
So the serpent crept into the mouth of Raud and down his throat , and gnawed its way out of his side and thus Raud perished . 
Then the king took the dragonship which Raud had owned , and steered it himself for it was a much larger and handsomer vessel than the Crane . 
In front it had a dragon's head , and aft a crook , which turned up , and ended with the figure of the dragon's tail . 
The carved work on each side of the stem and stern was gilded . 
This ship the king called the Serpent . 
When the sails were hoisted they represented , as it were , the dragon's wings and the ship was the handsomest in all Norway . 
The islands on which Raud dwelt were called Gylling and Haering but the whole islands together were called Godey Isles , and the current between the isles and the mainland the Godey Stream . 
The same autumn Olaf with his fleet returned to Throndhjem , and landed at Nidaros , where he took up his winter abode . 
What I am now going to write about concerns the Icelanders . 
from Iceland to Nidaros , and he was considered to be the most agreeable and hopeful man of any born in Iceland . 
All these were heathens and besides them there were many more , some men of power , others common men of no property . 
Bodvar's brother was Sigurd , father of Eirik Bjodaskalle , whose daughter Astrid was King Olaf's mother . 
Hjalte Skeggjason was the name of another Iceland man , who was married to Vilborg , Gissur the White's daughter . 
Hjalte was also a Christian and King Olaf was very friendly to his relations Gissur and Hjalte , who live with him . 
They who directed the ships were Thorarin Nefjulson , the skald Halfred Ottarson , Brand the Generous , and Thorleik , Brand's son . 
It was told the king that there were Icelanders with ships there , and all were heathen , and wanted to fly from a meeting with the king . 
Then the king sent them a message forbidding them to sail , and ordering them to bring their ships up to the town , which they did , but without discharging the cargoes . 
The part included in parenthesis is not found in the original text of Heimskringla , but taken from Codex Frisianus . 
When Michaelmas came , the king had high mass sung with great splendour . 
He sent immediately that very day a message to Kjartan to come to him . 
Kjartan went with some men , and the king received him kindly . 
Kjartan was a very stout and handsome man , and of ready and agreeable speech . 
After the king and Kjartan had conversed a little , the king asked him to adopt Christianity . 
Kjartan replies , that he would not say no to that , if he thereby obtained the king's friendship and as the king promised him the fullest friendship , they were soon agreed . 
The next day Kjartan was baptized , together with his relation Bolle Thorlakson , and all their fellow travelers . 
Kjartan and Bolle were the king's guests as long as they were in their white baptismal clothes , and the king had much kindness for them . 
Wherever they came they were looked upon as people of distinction . 
As King Olaf one day was walking in the street some men met him , and he who went the foremost saluted the king . 
The king asked the man his name , and he called himself Halfred . 
Art thou the skald ? said the king . 
I can compose poetry , replied he . 
Wilt thou then adopt Christianity , and come into my service ? asked the king . 
If I am baptized , replies he , it must be on one condition , that thou thyself art my godfather for no other will I have . 
The king replies , That I will do . 
And Halfred was baptized , the king holding him during the baptism . 
It has been reported to me , said the king , that thou are neither so prudent nor so obedient as to fulfil my commands . 
In that case , replied Halfred , put me to death . 
Thou art a skald who composes difficulties , says the king but into my service , Halfred , thou shalt be received . 
Halfred sang thus This sword of swords is my reward . 
For him who knows to wield a sword , And with his sword to serve his lord , Yet wants a sword , his lot is hard . 
I would I had my good lord's leave For this good sword a sheath to choose I'm worth three swords when men use , But for the sword sheath now I grieve . 
Then the king gave him the scabbard , observing that the word sword was wanting in one line of his strophe . 
But there instead are three swords in one of the lines , says Halfred . 
That is true , replies the king . 
Out of Halfred's lays we have taken the most of the true and faithful accounts that are here related about Olaf Trygvason . 
The king harkened to those remonstrances and all the Iceland men who were there were baptized . 
One is that he ascended the Smalsarhorn , and fixed his shield upon the very peak . 
King Olaf could run across the oars outside of the vessel while his men were rowing the Serpent . 
He could play with three daggers , so that one was always in the air , and he took the one falling by the handle . 
He could walk all round upon the ship's rails , could strike and cut equally well with both hands , and could cast two spears at once . 
He was distinguished for cruelty when he was enraged , and tortured many of his enemies . 
Some he burnt in fire some he had torn in pieces by mad dogs some he had mutilated , or cast down from high precipices . 
from Greenland to Norway and as he met King Olaf he adopted Christianity , and passed the winter with the king . 
Gudrod , a son of Eirik Bloodaxe and Gunhild , had been ravaging in the west countries ever since he fled from Norway before the Earl Hakon . 
, where King Olaf Trygvason had ruled four years over Norway , Gudrod came to the country , and had many ships of war with him . 
Now as the country people saw that a great army was come upon them , they desired peace and terms . 
The king demanded maintenance during the time this delay lasted . 
When King Olaf's relations , Hyrning and Thorgeir , heard of this , they gathered men , fitted out ships , and went northwards to Viken . 
Of those who were with his ships some were killed , some slipped away and fled to great distances and now were all the sons of Eirik and Gunhild dead . 
BUILDING OF THE SHIP LONG SERPENT . 
, he had a great vessel built at Hladhamrar , which was larger than any ship in the country , and of which the beam knees are still to be seen . 
The length of keel that rested upon the grass was seventy four ells . 
The ship was both long and broad and high sided , and strongly timbered . 
Then the king returned to the town . 
Early next morning the king returns again to the ship , and Thorberg with him . 
The carpenters were there before them , but all were standing idle with their arms across . 
I can tell you , king , said Thorberg , who has done this piece of work . 
I don't think , replies the king , that any one is so likely to find it out as thou art . 
Thorberg says , I will tell you , king , who did it . 
The king says , Thou must restore it all to the same condition as before , or thy life shall pay for it . 
Afterwards Thorberg was the master builder of the ship until she was entirely finished . 
The ship was a dragon , built after the one the king had captured in Halogaland but this ship was far larger , and more carefully put together in all her parts . 
The king called this ship Serpent the Long , and the other Serpent the Short . 
The long Serpent had thirty four benches for rowers . 
The head and the arched tail were both gilt , and the bulwarks were as high as in sea going ships . 
This ship was the best and most costly ship ever made in Norway . 
EARL EIRIK , THE SON OF HAKON . 
Earl Eirik , the son of Earl Hakon , and his brothers , with many other valiant men their relations , had left the country after Earl Hakon's fall . 
Earl Eirik went eastwards to Svithjod , to Olaf , the Swedish king , and he and his people were well received . 
King Olaf gave the earl peace and freedom in the land , and great fiefs so that he could support himself and his men well . 
Thord Kolbeinson speaks of this in the verses before given . 
First he steered to Gotland , and lay there long in summer watching for merchant vessels sailing towards the land , or for vikings . 
Sometimes he landed and ravaged all round upon the sea coasts . 
Afterwards Earl Eirik sailed south to Vindland , and at Stauren found some viking ships , and gave them battle . 
Eirik gained the victory , and slew the vikings . 
EIRIK'S FORAY ON THE BALTIC COASTS . 
but in the spring fitted out his war force again , and sailed up the Baltic . 
When he came to Valdemar's dominions he began to plunder and kill the inhabitants , and burn the dwellings everywhere as he came along , and to lay waste the country . 
Aldeiga burns , and Eirik's might Scours through all Russia by its light . 
And Eirik too , the bold in fight , Has broken down the robber might Of four great vikings , and has slain All of the crew nor spared one Dane . 
In Gautland he has seized the town , In Syssels harried up and down And all the people in dismay Fled to the forests far away . 
By land or sea , in field or wave , What can withstand this earl brave ? All fly before his fiery hand God save the earl , and keep the land . 
to King Svein Tjuguskeg , the Danish king , and courted his daughter Gyda . 
they had a son , who was called Hakon . 
Earl Eirik was in the winter in Denmark , or sometimes in Sweden but in summer he went a cruising . 
The Danish king , Svein Tjuguskeg , was married to Gunhild , a daughter of Burizleif , king of the Vinds . 
But in the times we have just been speaking of it happened that Queen Gunhild fell sick and died . 
Now , said King Burizleif to Earl Sigvalde , I must have the promise fulfilled . 
And he told Earl Sigvalde to go to Denmark , and bring him Thyre as his queen . 
With her went some female attendants , and her foster father , by name Ozur Agason , a man of great power , and some other people . 
Thyre wept sorely , and went very unwillingly . 
OLAF GETS THYRE IN MARRIAGE . 
But here Thyre did not dare to remain , knowing that if her brother King Svein heard of her , he would send her back directly to Vindland . 
She went on , therefore , secretly to Norway , and never stayed her journey until she fell in with King Olaf , by whom she was kindly received . 
Thyre related to the king her sorrows , and entreated his advice in her need , and protection in his kingdom . 
Thyre was a well spoken woman , and the king had pleasure in her conversation . 
, and King Olaf and Queen Thyre remained all winter at Nidaros . 
But when King Olaf's friends heard of such speeches , they dissuaded him from any such expedition . 
The king took a great stalk of the angelica in his hand , and went home to Queen Thyre's lodging . 
Thyre sat in her room weeping as the king came in . 
The king said , Set here , queen , is a great angelica stalk , which I give thee . 
She threw it away , and said , A greater present Harald Gormson gave to my mother and he was not afraid to go out of the land and take his own . 
Then he sent his message token south and north , both along the sea coast and up in the interior of the country , to let an army be gathered . 
The king ordered the Long Serpent to be put into the water , along with all his other ships both small and great . 
He himself steered the Long Serpent . 
Those who were Olaf's bodyguard were in particular chosen men , both of the natives and of foreigners , and the boldest and strongest . 
CREW ON BOARD OF THE LONG SERPENT . 
By the bulkhead next the forecastle were Vak Raumason from Gaut River , Berse the Strong , An Skyte from Jamtaland , Thrand the Strong from Thelamork , and his brother Uthyrmer . 
The following were in the fore hold Bjorn from Studla , Bork from the fjords . 
Many other valiant men were in the Serpent , although we cannot tell all their names . 
In every half division of the hold were eight men , and each and all chosen men and in the fore hold were thirty men . 
Thorkel Nefja , the king's brother , commanded the Short Serpent and Thorkel Dydril and Jostein , the king's mother's brothers , had the Crane and both these ships were well manned . 
King Olaf had eleven large ships from Throndhjem , besides vessels with twenty rowers' benches , smaller vessels , and provision vessels . 
When King Olaf had nearly rigged out his fleet in Nidaros , he appointed men over the Throndhjem country in all districts and communities . 
He also sent to Iceland Gissur the White and Hjalte Skeggjason , to proclaim Christianity there and sent with them a priest called Thormod , along with several men in holy orders . 
But he retained with him , as hostages , four Icelanders whom he thought the most important namely , Kjartan Olafson , Haldor Gudmundson , Kolbein Thordson , and Sverting Runolfson . 
to Greenland to proclaim Christianity there , and Leif went there that summer . 
In the ocean he took up the crew of a ship which had been lost , and who were clinging to the wreck . 
RAGNVALD SENDS MESSENGERS TO OLAF . 
In that winter were many Icelanders and other clever men in King Olaf's house , as before related . 
His sister Ingebjorg , Trygve's daughter , King Olaf's sister , was also at the court at that time . 
She was beautiful in appearance , modest and frank with the people , had a steady manly judgment , and was beloved of all . 
The summer before Halfred Vandredaskald had come from Gautland , where he had been with Earl Ragnvald , Ulf's son , who had lately come to the government of West Gautland . 
Ulf , Ragnvald's father , was a brother of Sigurd the Haughty so that King Olaf the Swede and Earl Ragnvald were brother's and sister's children . 
Halfred told Olaf many things about the earl he said he was an able chief , excellently fitted for governing , generous with money , brave and steady in friendship . 
Halfred said also the earl desired much the friendship of King Olaf , and had spoken of making court Ingebjorg , Trygve's daughter . 
Therewith the ambassadors laid before the king sufficient tokens in proof that in reality they came from the earl on this errand . 
The king listened with approbation to their speech but said that Ingebjorg must determine on his assent to the marriage . 
The king then talked to his sister about the matter , and asked her opinion about it . 
She answered to this effect , I have been with you for some time , and you have shown brotherly care and tender respect for me ever since you came to the country . 
I will agree therefore to your proposal about my marriage , provided that you do not marry me to a heathen man . 
The king said it should be as she wished . 
With this reply the earl's messengers went westward , and King Olaf remained all winter in Nidaros in great splendour , and with many people about him . 
OLAF SENDS EXPEDITION TO VINDLAND . 
Many of his friends also joined him , and other persons of consequence who had prepared themselves to travel with the king . 
His brothers in law Hyrning and Thorgeir also joined him , each of whom for himself steered a large vessel and many other powerful men besides followed him . 
When he left the land and sailed southwards he had sixty ships of war , with which he sailed past Denmark , and in through the Sound , and on to Vindland . 
He passed here much of the summer , and found many of his old friends . 
The Danish king , Svein Tjuguskeg , was married , as before related , to Sigrid the Haughty . 
Sigrid was King Olaf Trygvason's greatest enemy the cause of which , as before said , was that King Olaf had broken off with her , and had struck her in the face . 
Such persuasions Sigrid had often in her mouth and at last she brought it so far that Svein resolved firmly on doing so . 
Haldor the Unchristian tells of this in his lay on Earl Eirik The king subduer raised a host Of warriors on the Swedish coast . 
The Swedish king and Earl Eirik sailed to meet the Danish king , and they had all , when together , an immense force . 
So Sigvalde sets out to go to Vindland . 
First , he came to Jomsborg , and then he sought out King Olaf Trygvason . 
There was much friendship in their conversation , and the earl got himself into great favour with the king . 
Olaf's people were in the highest degree dissatisfied with this for the men were anxious to get home , and they lay ready to sail , waiting only for a wind . 
They also desired the earl to contrive matters so that they should meet King Olaf there . 
KING OLAF'S VOYAGE FROM VINDLAND . 
There came first a flying report to Vindland that the Danish king , Svein , had fitted out an army and it was soon whispered that he intended to attack King Olaf . 
, and I will give thee eleven well manned ships . 
The sails were hoisted and all the small vessels , sailing fastest , got out to sea before the others . 
Now when Earl Sigvalde came sailing close under the island Svold , a skiff rowed out to inform the earl that the Danish king's army was lying in the harbour before them . 
Then the earl ordered the sails of his vessels to be struck , and they rowed in under the island . 
Haldor the Unchristian says From out the south bold Trygve's son With one and seventy ships came on , To dye his sword in bloody fight , Against the Danish foeman's might . 
But the false earl the king betrayed And treacherous Sigvalde , it is said , Deserted from King Olaf's fleet , And basely fled , the Danes to meet . 
It is said here that King Olaf and Earl Sigvalde had seventy sail of vessels and one more , when they sailed from the south . 
The Danish King Svein , the Swedish King Olaf , and Earl Eirik , were there with all their forces . 
The two kings said , That is a large and very beautiful vessel that will be the Long Serpent . 
Earl Eirik replied , That is not the Long Serpent . 
And he was right for it was the ship belonging to Eindride of Gimsar . 
Says Earl Eirik , That is not the king's ship yet for I know that ship by the coloured stripes of cloth in her sail . 
Let him sail for it is the better for us that the ship is away from Olaf's fleet , so well equipt as she is . 
Soon after they saw and knew Earl Sigvalde's ships , which turned in and laid themselves under the island . 
Then they saw three ships coming along under sail , and one of them very large . 
King Svein ordered his men to go to their ships , for there comes the Long Serpent . 
Earl Eirik says , Many other great and stately vessels have they besides the Long Serpent . 
Let us wait a little . 
But when they had spoken thus for a short time , they saw four ships coming sailing along , of which one had a large dragon head richly gilt . 
Then King Svein stood up and said , That dragon shall carry me this evening high , for I shall steer it . 
Then said many , The Long Serpent is indeed a wonderfully large and beautiful vessel , and it shows a great mind to have built such a ship . 
Thereafter all the people rushed on board their ships , took down the tents , and in all haste made ready for battle . 
The Earl answered , that he was waiting for king Olaf , as he feared there were enemies in the water . 
They lay upon their oars until Thorkel Nefia came up with the Short Serpent and the three ships which followed him . 
When they told them the same they too struck sail , and let the ships drive , waiting for king Olaf . 
But when the king sailed in towards the isle , the whole enemies' fleet came rowing within them out to the Sound . 
When they saw this they begged the king to hold on his way , and not risk battle with so great a force . 
The king replied , high on the quarter deck where he stood , Strike the sails never shall men of mine think of flight . 
I never fled from battle . 
Let God dispose of my life , but flight I shall never take . 
It was done as the king commanded . 
Halfred tells of it thus And far and wide the saying bold Of the brave warrior shall be told . 
The king , in many a fray well tried , To his brave champions round him cried , My men shall never learn from me From the dark weapon cloud to flee . 
Nor were the brave words spoken then Forgotten by his faithful men . 
OLAF'S SHIPS PREPARED FOR BATTLE . 
King Olaf ordered the war horns to sound for all his ships to close up to each other . 
The king replies , I did not think I had a forecastle man afraid as well as red . 
Says Ulf , Defend thou the quarterdeck as I shall the forecastle . 
The king had a bow in his hands , and laid an arrow on the string , and aimed at Ulf . 
Ulf said , Shoot another way , king , where it is more needful my work is thy gain . 
They appear to have fought principally from the forecastles and to have used grappling irons for dragging a vessel out of the line , or within boarding distance . 
King Olaf stood on the Serpent's quarterdeck , high over the others . 
He had a gilt shield , and a helmet inlaid with gold over his armour he had a short red coat , and was easy to be distinguished from other men . 
Better it were , says King Olaf , for these Swedes to be sitting at home killing their sacrifices , than to be venturing under our weapons from the Long Serpent . 
But who owns the large ships on the larboard side of the Danes ? That is Earl Eirik Hakonson , say they . 
The king replies , He , methinks , has good reason for meeting us and we may expect the sharpest conflict with these men , for they are Norsemen like ourselves . 
King Svein laid his ship against the Long Serpent . 
Outside of him Olaf the Swede laid himself , and set his ship's stern against the outermost ship of King Olaf's line and on the other side lay Earl Eirik . 
Then a hard combat began . 
Earl Sigvalde held back with the oars on his ships , and did not join the fray . 
Where arrows whistled on the shore Of Svold fjord my shield I bore , And stood amidst the loudest clash When swords on shields made fearful crash . 
FLIGHT OF SVEIN AND OLAF THE SWEDE . 
This battle was one of the severest told of , and many were the people slain . 
It went with this force just as King Olaf Trygvason had foreseen . 
But Earl Eirik laid his ship side by side with the outermost of King Olaf's ships , thinned it of men , cut the cables , and let it drive . 
Then he laid alongside of the next , and fought until he had cleared it of men also . 
Now all the people who were in the smaller ships began to run into the larger , and the earl cut them loose as fast as he cleared them of men . 
And still fresh foemen , it is said , Earl Eirik to her long side led Whole armies of his Danes and Swedes , Wielding on high their blue sword blades . 
Then the fight became most severe , and many people fell . 
Then Earl Eirik lay with his ship by the side of the Serpent , and the fight went on with battle axe and sword . 
Earl Eirik was in the forehold of his ship , where a cover of shields had been set up . 
In the fight , both hewing weapons , sword , and axe , and the thrust of spears had been used and all that could be used as weapon for casting was cast . 
Some used bows , some threw spears with the hand . 
So says Halfred The daring lads shrink not from death O'erboard they leap , and sink beneath The Serpent's keel all armed they leap , And down they sink five fathoms deep . 
The foe was daunted at the cheers The king , who still the Serpent steers , In such a strait beset with foes Wanted but some more lads like those . 
The Romans had a similar military arrangement of shields in sieges the testudo . 
Einar Tambarskelver , one of the sharpest of bowshooters , stood by the mast , and shot with his bow . 
Einar shot an arrow at Earl Eirik , which hit the tiller end just above the earl's head so hard that it entered the wood up to the arrow shaft . 
race , and was a superior archer , Shoot that tall man by the mast . 
Fin shot and the arrow hit the middle of Einar's bow just at the moment that Einar was drawing it , and the bow was split in two parts . 
cried King Olaf , that broke with such a noise ? Norway , king , from thy hands , cried Einar . 
No ! not quite so much as that , says the king take my bow , and shoot , flinging the bow to him . 
Einar took the bow , and drew it over the head of the arrow . 
Too weak , too weak , said he , for the bow of a mighty king ! and , throwing the bow aside , he took sword and shield , and fought Valiantly . 
OLAF GIVES HIS MEN SHARP SWORDS . 
The king stood on the gangways of the Long Serpent . 
and shot the greater part of the day sometimes with the bow , sometimes with the spear , and always throwing two spears at once . 
He looked down over the ship's sides , and saw that his men struck briskly with their swords , and yet wounded but seldom . 
Then he called aloud , Why do ye strike so gently that ye seldom cut ? One among the people answered , The swords are blunt and full of notches . 
Now when Earl Eirik saw there were but few people remaining beside the ship's mast , he determined to board and he entered the Serpent with four others . 
Thord Kolbeinson alludes to this On Odin's deck , all wet with blood , The helm adorned hero stood And gallant Hyrning honour gained , Clearing all round with sword deep stained . 
The high mountain peaks shall fall , Ere men forget this to recall . 
The earl resolved to board the Serpent again , and again he met with a warm reception . 
So says Haldor the Unchristian Eirik cheers on his men , On to the charge again ! The gallant few Of Olaf's crew Must refuge take On the quarter deck . 
Around the king They stand in ring Their shields enclose The king from foes , And the few who still remain Fight madly , but in vain . 
Eirik cheers on his men On to the charge again ! . 
Kolbjorn the marshal , who had on clothes and arms like the kings , and was a remarkably stout and handsome man , went up to king on the quarter deck . 
The battle was still going on fiercely even in the forehold . 
He was thus taken and brought into a boat , and they supposed he was the king . 
He was brought before the earl and when the earl saw it was Kolbjorn , and not the king , he gave him his life . 
It is thus told concerning the king by Halfred The Serpent and the Crane Lay wrecks upon the main . 
On his sword he cast a glance , With it he saw no chance . 
To his marshal , who of yore Many a war chance had come o'er , He spoke a word then drew in breath , And sprang to his deep sea death . 
Now when King Olaf sprang overboard , the whole army raised a shout of victory and then Earl Sigvalde and his men put their oars in the water and rowed towards the battle . 
War , like a full fed ravenous beast , Still oped her grim jaws for the feast . 
This I can say , nor fear to lie , That he was wounded grievously So wounded in this bloody strife , He scarce could come away with life . 
But however this may have been , King Olaf Trygvason never came back again to his kingdom of Norway . 
From the far east some news is rife Of king sore wounded saving life His death , too sure , leaves me no care For cobweb rumours in the air . 
It never was the will of fate That Olaf from such perilous strait Should 'scape with life ! this truth may grieve What people wish they soon believe . 
OF EARL EIRIK , THE SON OF HAKON . 
By this victory Earl Eirik Hakonson became owner of the Long Serpent , and made a great booty besides and he steered the Serpent from the battle . 
So says Haldor Olaf , with glittering helmet crowned , Had steered the Serpent through the Sound And people dressed their boats , and cheered As Olaf's fleet in splendour steered . 
But the descendent of great Heming , Whose race tells many a gallant sea king , His blue sword in red life blood stained , And bravely Olaf's long ship gained . 
Svein , a son of Earl Hakon , and Earl Eirik's brother , was engaged at this time to marry Holmfrid , a daughter of King Olaf the Swedish king . 
Olaf gave these dominions into Earl Svein's hands , on the same conditions as the sub kings or earls had held them formerly from the upper king of the country . 
So says Thord Kolbeinson All chiefs within our land On Eirik's side now stand Erling alone , I know Remains Earl Eirik's foe . 
All praise our generous earl , He gives , and is no churl All men are well content Fate such a chief has sent . 
From Veiga to Agder they , Well pleased , the earl obey And all will by him stand , To guard the Norsemen's land . 
And now the news is spread That mighty Svein is dead , And luck is gone from those Who were the Norsemen's foes . 
The Danish king Svein retained Viken as he had held it before , but he gave Raumarike and Hedemark to Earl Eirik . 
Svein Hakonson got the title of earl from Olaf the Swedish king . 
Svein was one of the handsomest men ever seen . 
But , on the other hand , they held fast by the old laws , and all the old rights and customs of the land , and were excellent men and good rulers . 
Earl Eirik had most to say of the two brothers in all matters of government . 
Olaf Haraldson the Saint's Saga is the longest , the most important , and the most finished of all the sagas in Heimskringla . 
The life of Olaf will be found treated more or less freely in Agrip , in Historia Norvegiae , in Thjodrek the Monk , in the legendary saga , and in Fagrskinna . 
King Olaf the Saint reigned from about the year to . 
The death of King Olaf Trygvason was in the year and Earl Eirik held the government for the Danish and Swedish kings about fifteen years . 
OF SAINT OLAF'S BRINGING UP . 
Olaf , Harald Grenske's son , was brought up by his stepfather Sigurd Syr and his mother Asta . 
Hrane the Far travelled lived in the house of Asta , and fostered this Olaf Haraldson . 
Olaf came early to manhood , was handsome in countenance , middle sized in growth , and was even when very young of good understanding and ready speech . 
OF OLAF AND KING SIGURD SYR . 
It happened one day that King Sigurd wanted to ride from home , but there was nobody about the house so he told his stepson Olaf to saddle his horse . 
I see well enough that we are of different dispositions , and that thou art far more proud than I am . 
Olaf answered little , but went his way laughing . 
When Olaf Haraldson grew up he was not tall , but middle sized in height , although very thick , and of good strength . 
He had light brown hair , and a broad face , which was white and red . 
He had particularly fine eyes , which were beautiful and piercing , so that one was afraid to look him in the face when he was angry . 
He was distinct and acute in conversation , and was soon perfect in understanding and strength . 
He was called Olaf the Great . 
Olaf Haraldson was twelve years old when he , for the first time , went on board a ship of war . 
Hrane sat at the helm and some say that Olaf himself was but a common rower , although he was king of the men at arms . 
They steered east along the land , and came first to Denmark . 
Well exercised art thou in truth In manhood's earnest work , brave youth ! Out from the distant north Mighty hast thou come forth . 
The same autumn Olaf had his first battle at Sotasker , which lies in the Swedish skerry circle . 
He fought there with some vikings , whose leader was Sote . 
The vikings took to flight after losing many men . 
Where did the sea king first draw blood ? In the battle shock At Sote's rock The wolves howl over their fresh food . 
King Olaf steered thereafter eastwards to Svithjod , and into the Lag , and ravaged the land on both sides . 
He sailed all the way up to Sigtuna , and laid his ships close to the old Sigtuna . 
The Swedes say the stone heaps are still to be seen which Olaf had laid under the ends of the gangways from the shore to the ships . 
He therefore dug a canal across the flat land Agnafit out to the sea . 
It fell heavy rain just at this time and as the canal was dug out to the sea , the water and stream rushed into it . 
Then Olaf had all the rudders unshipped and hoisted all sail aloft . 
This passage has since been called King's Sound but large vessels cannot pass through it , unless the waters are very high . 
The king sailed to Gotland in harvest , and prepared to plunder but the Gotlanders assembled , and sent men to the king , offering him a scat . 
The king found this would suit him , and he received the scat , and remained there all winter . 
King Olaf gained the victory , pursued those who fled , and laid waste the land with fire and sword . 
So says Sigvat the skald With much deceit and bustle To the heath of Eysyssel The bondes brought the king , To get scat at their weapon thing . 
But Olaf was too wise To be taken by surprise Their legs scarce bore them off O'er the common test enough . 
After this they sailed to Finland and plundered there , and went up the country . 
All the people fled to the forest , and they had emptied their houses of all household goods . 
Now when they came into the woods again people rushed upon them from all quarters , and made a severe attack . 
The king's luck prevailed more than the Finlanders' witchcraft for he had the luck to beat round the Balagard's side in the night . 
and so got out to sea . 
But the Finnish army proceeded on land , making the same progress as the king made with his ships . 
So says Sigvat The third fight was at Herdaler , where The men of Finland met in war The hero of the royal race , With ringing sword blades face to face . 
Off Balagard's shore the waves Ran hollow but the sea king saves His hard pressed ship , and gains the lee Of the east coast through the wild sea . 
THE FOURTH BATTLE IN SUDERVIK . 
They sailed southwards to the Jutland coast , to a place called Sudervik , where they overcame many viking ships . 
The vikings , who usually have many people to command , give themselves the title of kings , although they have no lands to rule over . 
King Olaf went into battle with them , and it was severe but King Olaf gained the victory , and a great booty . 
So says Sigvat Hark ! hark ! The war shout Through Sudervik rings , And the vikings bring out To fight the two kings . 
Great honour , I'm told , Won these vikings so bold But their bold fight was vain , For the two brave kings gain . 
THE FIFTH BATTLE IN FRIESLAND . 
King Olaf sailed from thence south to Friesland , and lay under the strand of Kinlima in dreadful weather . 
The king landed with his men but the people of the country rode down to the strand against them , and he fought them . 
So says Sigvat Under Kinlima's cliff , This battle is the fifth . 
DEATH OF KING SVEIN FORKED BEARD . 
The king sailed from thence westward to England . 
The Danes had spread themselves so widely over England , that it was come so far that King Ethelred had departed from the country , and had gone south to Valland . 
Then many people flocked to him and among others , came King Olaf with a great troop of Northmen to his aid . 
They steered first to London , and sailed into the Thames with their fleet but the Danes had a castle within . 
On the other side of the river is a great trading place , which is called Sudvirke . 
King Ethelred ordered a great assault but the Danes defended themselves bravely , and King Ethelred could make nothing of it . 
there was a bridge , so broad that two wagons could pass each other upon it . 
Now when the attack was made the troops stood on the bridge everywhere , and defended themselves . 
King Ethelred was very anxious to get possession of the bridge , and he called together all the chiefs to consult how they should get the bridge broken down . 
Then said King Olaf he would attempt to lay his fleet alongside of it , if the other ships would do the same . 
It was then determined in this council that they should lay their war forces under the bridge and each made himself ready with ships and men . 
The piles were thus shaken in the bottom , and were loosened under the bridge . 
Thereafter Southwark was stormed and taken . 
So says Ottar Svarte London Bridge is broken down . 
Gold is won , and bright renown . 
Some by the dyke side refuge gain Some in their tents on Southwark plain ! The sixth attack Brought victory back . 
So says Sigvat the skald To Ulfkel's land came Olaf bold , A seventh sword thing he would hold . 
The race of Ella filled the plain Few of them slept at home again ! Hringmara heath Was a bed of death Harfager's heir Dealt slaughter there . 
And Ottar sings of this battle thus From Hringmara field The chime of war , Sword striking shield , Rings from afar . 
The living fly The dead piled high The moor enrich Red runs the ditch . 
and the Danes held many castles , besides a great part of the country . 
EIGHTH AND NINTH BATTLES OF OLAF . 
King Olaf was commander of all the forces when they went against Canterbury and they fought there until they took the town , killing many people and burning the castle . 
So says Ottar Svarte All in the grey of morn Broad Canterbury's forced . 
The Perthmen fought , Nor quarter sought By death or flight They left the fight . 
Olaf could not this earl stout From Canterbury quite drive out . 
At this time King Olaf was entrusted with the whole land defence of England , and he sailed round the land with his ships of War . 
He laid his ships at land at Nyjamoda , where the troops of the Thingmen were , and gave them battle and gained the victory . 
There thickest lay the Thingmen dead ! Nine battles now of Olaf bold , Battle by battle , I have told . 
King Olaf then scoured all over the country , taking scat of the people and plundering where it was refused . 
Thy gathered spoil , borne to the strand , Was the best wealth of English land . 
Olaf remained here for three years . 
The third year King Ethelred died , and his sons Edmund and Edward took the government . 
Then Olaf sailed southwards out to sea , and had a battle at Hringsfjord , and took a castle situated at Holar , where vikings resorted , and burnt the castle . 
So says Sigvat the skald Of the tenth battle now I tell , Where it was fought , and what befell . 
Up on the hill in Hringsfjord fair A robber nest hung in the air The people followed our brave chief , And razed the tower of the viking thief . 
Such rock and tower , such roosting place , Was ne'er since held by the roving race . 
ELEVENTH , TWELFTH AND THIRTEENTH BATTLES . 
Then King Olaf proceeded westwards to Grislupollar , and fought there with vikings at Williamsby and there also King Olaf gained the victory . 
So says Sigvat The eleventh battle now I tell , Where it was fought , and what befell . 
At Grislupol our young fir's name O'ertopped the forest trees in fame Brave Olaf's name nought else was heard But Olaf's name , and arm , and sword . 
Of three great earls , I have heard say , His sword crushed helm and head that day . 
From thence King Olaf sailed southwards to Seljupollar , where he had a battle . 
He took there a castle called Gunvaldsborg , which was very large and old . 
He also made prisoner the earl who ruled over the castle and who was called Geirfin . 
So says Sigvat The thirteenth battle now I tell , Where it was fought , and what befell . 
In Seljupol was fought the fray , And many did not survive the day . 
The king went early to the shore , To Gunvaldsborg's old castle tower And a rich earl was taken there , Whose name was Geridin , I am sure . 
FOURTEENTH BATTLE AND OLAF'S DREAM . 
Thereafter King Olaf steered with his fleet westward to Karlsar , and tarried there and had a fight . 
Return back to thy udal , for thou shalt be king over Norway for ever . 
He interpreted this dream to mean that he should be king over the country , and his posterity after him for a long time . 
After this appearance to him he turned about , and came to Poitou , where he plundered and burnt a merchant town called Varrande . 
Of this Ottar speaks Our young king , blythe and gay , Is foremost in the fray Poitou he plunders , Tuskland burns , He fights and wins where'er he turns . 
And also Sigvat says The Norsemen's king is on his cruise , His blue steel staining , Rich booty gaining , And all men trembling at the news . 
The Norsemen's kings up on the Loire Rich Partheney In ashes lay Far inland reached the Norsemen's spear . 
OF THE EARLS OF ROUEN . 
King Olaf had been two summers and one winter in the west in Valland on this cruise and thirteen years had now passed since the fall of King Olaf Trygvason . 
During this time earls had ruled over Norway first Hakon's sons Eirik and Svein , and afterwards Eirik's sons Hakon and Svein . 
Hakon was a sister's son of King Canute , the son of Svein . 
During this time there were two earls in Valland , William and Robert their father was Richard earl of Rouen . 
Their sister was Queen Emma , whom the English king Ethelred had married and their sons were Edmund , Edward the Good , Edwy , and Edgar . 
in the river Seine in good peace and quiet . 
After Olaf Trygvason's fall , Earl Eirik gave peace to Einar Tambaskelfer , the son of Eindride Styrkarson and Einar went north with the earl to Norway . 
It is said that Einar was the strongest man and the best archer that ever was in Norway . 
His shooting was sharp beyond all others for with a blunt arrow he shot through a raw , soft ox hide , hanging over a beam . 
He was better than any man at running on snow shoes , was a great man at all exercises , was of high family , and rich . 
The earls Eirik and Svein married their sister Bergliot to Einar . 
Their son was named Eindride . 
When Olaf Trygvason ruled over Norway , he gave his brother in law Erling half of the land scat , and royal revenues between the Naze and Sogn . 
His other sister he married to the Earl Ragnvald Ulfson , who long ruled over West Gautland . 
Ragnvald's father , Ulf , was a brother of Sigrid the Haughty , the mother of Olaf the Swedish king . 
Earl Eirik was ill pleased that Erling Skialgson had so large a dominion , and he took to himself all the king's estates , which King Olaf had given to Erling . 
But Erling levied , as before , all the land scat in Rogaland and thus the inhabitants had often to pay him the land scat , otherwise he laid waste their land . 
So says Sigvat Olaf the king Thought the bonde Erling A man who would grace His own royal race . 
One sister the king Gave the bonde Erling And one to an earl , And she saved him in peril . 
Erling was one of the handsomest , largest , and strongest men a better warrior than any other and in all exercises he was like King Olaf himself . 
He was , besides , a man of understanding , jealous in everything he undertook , and a deadly man at arms . 
Sigvat talks thus of him No earl or baron , young or old , Match with this bonde brave can hold . 
It was a common saying among the people , that Erling had been the most valiant who ever held lands under a king in Norway . 
Erlings and Astrid s children were these Aslak , Skialg , Sigurd , Lodin , Thorer , and Ragnhild , who was married to Thorberg Arnason . 
, but at the night meal there was no measure in drinking . 
When the earl was in the neighbourhood he had men or more . 
He never went to sea with less than a fully manned ship of twenty benches of rowers . 
Erling had also a ship of thirty two benches of rowers , which was besides , very large for that size . 
and which he used in viking cruises , or on an expedition and in it there were men at the very least . 
There were silver studs in a row from the rim to the bottom of the drinking born or cup and as it went round each drank till the stud appeared above the liquor . 
This was drinking by measure . 
OF THE HERSE ERLING SKIALGSON . 
Erling had always at home on his farm thirty slaves , besides other serving people . 
He gave them arable land to sow corn in , and let them apply their crops to their own use . 
He helped all to prosperity . 
When Earl Eirik had ruled over Norway for twelve years . 
The one was that in which the Earls Hakon and Eirik fought with the Jomsborg vikings the other that in which Earl Eirik fought with King Olaf Trygvason . 
Thord Kolbeinson speaks of this A song of praise Again I raise . 
To the earl bold The word is told , That Knut the Brave His aid would crave The earl , I knew , To friend stands true . 
Eirik met King Canute in England , and was with him when he took the castle of London . 
Earl Eirik had a battle also to the westward of the castle of London , and killed Ulfkel Snilling . 
So says Thord Kolbeinson West of London town we passed , And our ocean steeds made fast , And a bloody fight begin , Eng and's lands to lose or win . 
Blue sword and shining spear Laid Ulfkel's dead corpse there , Our Thingmen hear the war shower sounding Our grey arrows from their shields rebounding . 
Earl Eirik was a winter in England , and had many battles there . 
The following autumn he intended to make a pilgrimage to Rome , but he died in England of a bloody flux . 
Then King Canute took Queen Emma in marriage and their children were Harald , Hardacanute , and Gunhild . 
King Canute then made an agreement with King Edmund , that each of them should have a half of England . 
In the same month Henry Strion murdered King Edmund . 
King Canute then drove all Ethelred's sons out of England . 
So says Sigvat Now all the sons of Ethelred Were either fallen , or had fled Some slain by Canute , some they say , To save their lives had run away . 
They made an agreement with each other that King Olaf should have Northumberland , if they could succeed in taking England from the Danes . 
Therefore about harvest , Olaf sent his foster father Hrane to England to collect men at arms and Ethelred's sons sent tokens to their friends and relations with him . 
King Olaf , besides , gave him much money with him to attract people to them . 
Many men were there who had promised them their aid . 
They took the castle and killed many people . 
King Olaf left his long ships there behind , but made ready two ships of burden and had with him men in them , well armed , and chosen people . 
So says Ottar Olaf , great stem of kings , is brave Bold in the fight , bold on the wave . 
No thought of fear Thy heart comes near . 
Undaunted , 'midst the roaring flood , Firm at his post each shipman stood And thy two ships stout The gale stood out . 
And further he says Thou able chief ! with thy fearless crew Thou meetest , with skill and courage true , The wild sea's wrath On thy ocean path . 
Though waves mast high were breaking round . 
Thou findest the middle of Norway's ground , With helm in hand On Saela's strand . 
It is related here that King Olaf came from the sea to the very middle of Norway and the isle is called Saela where they landed , and is outside of Stad . 
King Olaf said he thought it must be a lucky day for them , since they had landed at Saela in Norway and observed it was a good omen that it so happened . 
As they were going up in the isle , the king slipped with one foot in a place where there was clay , but supported himself with the other foot . 
Then said he The king falls . 
Nay , replies Hrane , thou didst not fall , king , but set fast foot in the soil . 
The king laughed thereat , and said , It may be so if God will . 
HAKON TAKEN PRISONER BY OLAF . 
King Olaf steered his ships within the ordinary ships' course when he came abreast of Fjaler district , and ran into Saudungssund . 
There he laid his two vessels one on each side of the sound . 
with a thick cable between them . 
Then Olaf and his men draw the cable up right under Hakon's ship's keel and wind it up with the capstan . 
So says Ottar The black ravens wade In the blood from thy blade . 
Earl Hakon was led up to the king's ship . 
He was the handsomest man that could be seen . 
He had long hair , as fine as silk , bound about his bead with a gold ornament . 
Hakon the earl replied , It has always been the case that success is changeable and there is no luck in the matter . 
It has gone with your family as with mine , to have by turns the better lot . 
I am little beyond childhood in years and at any rate we could not have defended ourselves , as we did not expect any attack on the way . 
It may turn out better with us another time . 
Olaf says , What wilt thou give me , earl , if for this time I let thee go , whole and unhurt ? The earl asks what he would take . 
Nothing , says the king , except that thou shalt leave the country , give up thy kingdom , and take an oath that thou shalt never go into battle against me . 
The earl answered , that he would do so . 
The earl got back the ship which had brought him there , and he and his men rowed their way . 
Thus says Sigvat of him In old Saudungs sound The king Earl Hakon found , Who little thought that there A foeman was so near . 
The best and fairest youth Earl Hakon was in truth , That speaks the Danish tongue , And of the race of great Hakon . 
the earl made ready as fast as possible to leave the country and sail over to England . 
He met King Canute , his mother's brother , there , and told him all that had taken place between him and King Olaf . 
King Canute received him remarkably well , placed him in his court in his own house , and gave him great power in his kingdom . 
Earl Hakon dwelt a long time with King Canute . 
Thus Erling became a firm friend of the earl's , and their mutual friendship was confirmed by oath . 
ASTA RECEIVES HER SON OLAF . 
King Olaf went now eastward along the land , holding Things with the bondes all over the country . 
Many went willingly with him but some , who were Earl Svein's friends or relations , spoke against him . 
When he came to Vestfold he was received in a friendly way by many who had been his father's friends or acquaintances and also there and in Folden were many of his family . 
he proceeded up the country to his stepfather King Sigurd's , and came there one day very early . 
As Olaf was coming near to the house , some of the servants ran beforehand to the house , and into the room . 
Olaf's mother , Asta , was sitting in the room , and around her some of her girls . 
She ordered four girls to bring out all that belonged to the decoration of the room and put it in order with hangings and benches . 
Four men she sent off to the four quarters of the country to invite all the great people to a feast , which she prepared as a rejoicing for her son's return . 
All who were before in the house she made to dress themselves with the best they had , and lent clothes to those who had none suitable . 
He had many people on his farm . 
Of Sigurd's living and disposition it is related that he was a very gain making man who attended carefully to his cattle and husbandry , and managed his housekeeping himself . 
He was nowise given to pomp , and was rather taciturn . 
But he was a man of the best understanding in Norway , and also excessively wealthy in movable property . 
Peaceful he was , and nowise haughty . 
His wife Asta was generous and high minded . 
Their children were , Guthorm , the eldest then Gunhild the next Halfdan , Ingerid , and Harald . 
The king replies , The news ye bring me is weighty , and ye bring it forward in great heat . 
Already before now Asta has been taken up much with people who were not so near to her and I see she is still of the same disposition . 
When the king had said this he sat down , and made them take off his shoes , and put corduvan boots on , to which he bound his gold spurs . 
He sent his labouring people out to the neighbourhood , and gathered to him thirty well clothed men , and rode home with them . 
People were gathered over all upon the house tops . 
King Sigurd immediately saluted his stepson from horseback in a friendly way , and invited him and his men to come in and drink a cup with him . 
King Olaf thanked her kindly for her invitation . 
Then she took him by the hand , and led him into the room to the high seat . 
CONVERSATION OF OLAF AND SIGURD . 
King Olaf had not been long here before he one day called his stepfather King Sigurd , his mother Asta , and his foster father Hrane to a conference and consultation . 
They have not been content with this , but have taken to themselves also the properties of all our relations who are descended from Harald Harfager . 
To some they have left little , to others nothing at all . 
King Sigurd answers , It is no small affair , King Olaf , thou hast in thy mind and thy purpose comes more , methinks , from hasty pride than from prudence . 
When the consultation had proceeded so far , Asta took up the word . 
For my part , my son , I am rejoiced at thy arrival , but much more at thy advancing thy honour . 
I will spare nothing for that purpose that stands in my power , although it be but little help that can be expected from me . 
With this the conference closed . 
King Olaf remained here a while with all his men . 
King Sigurd entertained them , day about , the one day with fish and milk , the other day with flesh meat and ale . 
KINGS IN THE UPLAND DISTRICTS . 
At that time there were many kings in the Uplands who had districts to rule over , and the most of them were descended from Harald Harfager . 
With these district kings Sigurd had a meeting up in Hadaland , and Olaf Haraldson also met with them . 
He said that there was now a man before them who could head such an enterprise and he recounted the many brave actions which Olaf had achieved upon his war expeditions . 
Then King Hrorek says , True it is that Harald Harfager's kingdom has gone to decay , none of his race being supreme king over Norway . 
But the people here in the country have experienced many things . 
The whole country's desire was to make him supreme king , and raise again the kingdom which Harald Harfager had made for himself . 
But when King Olaf thought himself quite firmly seated in his kingdom , no man could rule his own concerns for him . 
The people at last had so little freedom under him , that it was not allowed to every man to believe in what god he pleased . 
Then the others , one after the other , stood up and spoke and the conclusion was , that the most of them determined to enter into a league with King Olaf . 
He promised them his perfect friendship , and that he would hold by and improve the country's laws and rights , if he became supreme king of Norway . 
This league was confirmed by oath . 
OLAF GETS THE TITLE OF KING FROM THE THING . 
Thereafter the kings summoned a Thing , and there King Olaf set forth this determination to all the people , and his demand on the kingly power . 
On this point he spoke well , and long and he got great praise for his speech . 
Then the kings rose and spoke , the one after the other , and supported his cause , and this message to the people . 
At last it came to this , that King Olaf was proclaimed king over the whole country , and the kingdom adjudged to him according to law in the Uplands . 
KING OLAF TRAVELS IN THE UPLANDS . 
King Olaf began immediately his progress through the country , appointing feasts before him wherever there were royal farms . 
First he travelled round in Hadaland , and then he proceeded north to Gudbrandsdal . 
The king therefore hastened over the country , only stopping one night at the same place . 
Afterwards he proceeded through Opdal forest , and came out at Medaldal , where he proclaimed a Thing , and summoned the bondes to meet him at it . 
LEVY AGAINST OLAF IN THRONDHJEM . 
The message stick went to Orkadal , and thence to Gaulardal , where the whole war force was to assemble . 
Then the king arrayed his army , for he thought the bondes were to give battle . 
The bondes agreed to this and the twelve men went over a rising ground which is there , and came to the place where the king's army stood in array . 
Now I offer you peace and law , the same as King Olaf Trygvason offered before me . 
The king spoke well , and long and ended by proposing to the bondes two conditions either to go into his service and be subject to him , or to fight him . 
Thereupon the twelve bondes went back to their people , and told the issue of their errand , and considered with the people what they should resolve upon . 
Although they discussed the matter backwards and forwards for a while , they preferred at last to submit to the king and it was confirmed by the oath of the bondes . 
The king now proceeded on his journey , and the bondes made feasts for him . 
The king had , besides , four or five boats and with these vessels he went in all haste into the fjord of Throndhjem . 
Earl Svein was at that time far up in the Throndhjem fjord at Steinker , which at that time was a merchant town , and was there preparing for the yule festival . 
When Einar Tambaskelfer heard that the Orkadal people had submitted to King Olaf , he sent men to Earl Svein to bring him the tidings . 
There he saw King Olaf rowing in with his fleet into the fjord . 
The earl turned towards the land within Masarvik , where there was a thick wood , and lay so near the rocks that the leaves and branches hung over the vessel . 
EARL SVEIN'S AND EINAR'S CONSULTATIONS . 
Einar answers , We should go to work cautiously , and find out what King Olaf intends doing and not let him hear anything concerning us but that we are quiet . 
Einar's advice was taken and the earl went to Stjoradal , into guest quarters among the bondes . 
Here King Olaf Trygvason had laid the foundation of a merchant town , and had built a king's house but before that Nidaros was only a single house , as before related . 
Then he had all the meat and drink brought on shore to the houses , and prepared to hold Yule there so Earl Svein and Einar had to fall upon some other plan . 
He met King Olaf on his viking cruise in the west , and entered into his service , and followed him afterwards . 
He was with the king when the incidents above related took place . 
Thord had a son called Sigvat fostered in the house of Thorkel at Apavatn , in Iceland . 
The same winter King Olaf came to Throndhjem , as just now related by us . 
Now when Sigvat heard that his father Thord was with the king , he went to him , and stayed a while with him . 
Sigvat was a good skald at an early age . 
He made a lay in honour of King Olaf , and asked the king to listen to it . 
The king said he did not want poems composed about him , and said he did not understand the skald's craft . 
Then Sigvat sang Rider of dark blue ocean's steeds ! Allow one skald to sing thy deeds And listen to the song of one Who can sing well , if any can . 
For should the king despise all others , And show no favour to my brothers , Yet I may all men's favour claim , Who sing , still of our great king's fame . 
King Olaf gave Sigvat as a reward for his verse a gold ring that weighed half a mark , and Sigvat was made one of King Olaf's court men . 
Then Sigvat sang I willingly receive this sword By land or sea , on shore , on board , I trust that I shall ever be Worthy the sword received from thee . 
A faithful follower thou hast bound A generous master I have found Master and servant both have made Just what best suits them by this trade . 
for the Earls Eirik and Hakon had always taken one half of these and all other revenues in the Throndhjem country . 
it is not right that these poor men Their harbour dues should pay again . 
That they paid once I know is true Remit , great king , what scarce is due . 
Earl Svein and Einar Tambaskelfer gathered a large armed force , with which they came by the upper road into Gaulardal , and so down to Nidaros , with nearly men . 
King Olaf's men were out upon the Gaular ridge , and had a guard on horseback . 
They became aware that a force was coming down the Gaulardal , and they brought word of it to the king about midnight . 
Then came the earl's men to the town at the same moment , took all the Christmas provision , and set fire to the houses . 
King Olaf went out of the fjord down to Orkadal , and there landed the men from their ships . 
From Orkadal they went up to the mountains , and over the mountains eastwards into Gudbrandsdal . 
King Olaf went southwards through Gudbrandsdal , and thence out to Hedemark . 
he went about in guest quarters but when spring returned he collected men , and went to Viken . 
He had with him many people from Hedemark , whom the kings had given him and also many powerful people from among the bondes joined him , among whom Ketil Kalf from Ringanes . 
He had also people from Raumarike . 
His stepfather , Sigurd Syr , gave him the help also of a great body of men . 
They went down from thence to the coast , and made ready to put to sea from Viken . 
The fleet , which was manned with many fine fellows , went out then to Tunsberg . 
Earl Svein gathers all the men of the Throndhjem country , proclaims a levy for an expedition , and fits out ships . 
These lendermen were of great help to the kings or earls who ruled the land for it was as if the lenderman had the bonde people of each district in his power . 
Earl Svein being a good friend of the lendermen , it was easy for him to collect people . 
When they were ready for sea they went directly out of the fjord , steering south along the land , and drawing men from every district . 
When they came farther south , abreast of Rogaland , Erling Skialgson came to meet them , with many people and many lendermen with him . 
Now they steered eastward with their whole fleet to Viken , and Earl Svein ran in there towards the end of Easter . 
The earl steered his fleet to Grenmar , and ran into Nesjar . 
King Olaf steered his fleet out from Viken , until the two fleets were not far from each other , and they got news of each other the Saturday before Palm Sunday . 
King Olaf himself had a ship called the Carl's Head , on the bow of which a king's head was carved out , and he himself had carved it . 
This head was used long after in Norway on ships which kings steered themselves . 
Then he made a speech to the troops , and told the whole assembly that he had heard there was but a short distance between them and Earl Svein . 
Now , said he , we shall make ready for it can be but a short time until we meet . 
When we do meet , and the battle begins , let people be alert to bring all our ships in close order , and ready to bind them together . 
But when the fight becomes hot and the ships are bound together , then let each man show what is in him of manly spirit . 
OF THE BATTLE AT NESJAR . 
King Olaf had in his ship men armed in coats of ring mail , and in foreign helmets . 
The most of his men had white shields , on which the holy cross was gilt but some had painted it in blue or red . 
He had also had the cross painted in front on all the helmets , in a pale colour . 
He had a white banner on which was a serpent figured . 
He ordered a mass to be read before him , went on board ship , and ordered his people to refresh themselves with meat and drink . 
He then ordered the war horns to sound to battle , to leave the harbour , and row off to seek the earl . 
When King Olaf saw this he hastened the rowing , laid his ship alongside the earl's , and the battle began . 
So says Sigvat the skald Boldly the king did then pursue Earl Svein , nor let him out of view . 
The blood ran down the reindeer's flank Of each sea king his vessel's plank . 
Nor did the earl's stout warriors spare In battle brunt the sword and spear . 
Earl Svein his ships of war pushed on , And lashed their stout stems one to one . 
It is said that King Olaf brought his ships into battle while Svein was still lying in the harbour . 
Then was the conflict exceedingly sharp , and it was long before it could be seen how it was to go in the end . 
Many fell on both sides , and many were the wounded . 
So says Sigvat No urging did the earl require , Midst spear and sword the battle's fire No urging did the brave king need The ravens in this shield storm to feed . 
Of limb lopping enough was there , And ghastly wounds of sword and spear . 
Never , I think , was rougher play Than both the armies had that day . 
So says Sigvat Our lads , broad shouldered , tall , and hale , Drew on their cold shirts of ring mail . 
Soon sword on sword was shrilly ringing , And in the air the spears were singing . 
Under our helms we hid our hair , For thick flew arrows through the air . 
Right glad was I our gallant crew , Steel clad from head to foot , to view . 
Their banner was brought up to the ship that was nearest the earl's , and the king himself followed the banner . 
A different work ye have to share , His banner in war storm to bear , From your fair girl's , who round the hall Brings the full mead bowl to us all . 
Now was the severest fighting . 
Many of Svein's men fell , and some sprang overboard . 
The wounded bonde o'er the side Falls shrieking in the blood stained tide The deck is cleared with wild uproar The dead crew float about the shore . 
Where for the foe blunted the best sword I saw our young king climb on board . 
He stormed the first we followed him The war birds now in blood may swim . 
Now defeat began to come down upon the earl's men . 
So says Sigvat The earl , his noble ship to save , To cut the posts loud order gave . 
The ship escaped our greedy eyes Had looked on her as a clear prize . 
The earl escaped but ere he fled We feasted Odin's fowls with dead With many a goodly corpse that floated Round our ship's stern his birds were bloated . 
Einar Tambaskelfer had laid his ship right alongside the earl's . 
They threw an anchor over the bows of the earl's ship , and thus towed her away , and they slipped out of the fjord together . 
Thereafter the whole of the earl's fleet took to flight , and rowed out of the fjord . 
To me who knows the art of song . 
The skald was fain Farewell' again In the same terms back to send The rule in arms to foe or friend . 
EARL SVEIN LEAVES THE COUNTRY . 
Einar Tambaskelfer approved also of that advice , as they had no power to hold battle against Olaf . 
So they discharged their fleet . 
The earl sailed across Folden , and with him Einar Tambaskelfer . 
Erling Skialgson again , and likewise many other lendermen who would not abandon their udal possessions , went north to their homes and Erling had many people that summer about him . 
When King Olaf and his men saw that the earl had gathered his ships together , Sigurd Syr was in haste for pursuing the earl , and letting steel decide their cause . 
But King Olaf replies , that he would first see what the earl intended doing whether he would keep his force together or discharge his fleet . 
There was no attack made , for it was soon seen that the earl's fleet was dispersing . 
Then King Olaf ransacked the slain , and remained there some days to divide the booty . 
At that time Sigvat made these verses The tale I tell is true To their homes returned but few Of Svein's men who came to meet King Olaf's gallant fleet . 
From the North these warmen came To try the bloody game , On the waves their corpses borne Show the game that Sunday morn . 
The Throndhjem girls so fair Their jeers , I think , will spare , For the king's force was but small That emptied Throndhjem's hall . 
But if they will have their jeer , They may ask their sweethearts dear , Why they have returned shorn Who went to shear that Sunday morn . 
And also these Now will the king's power rise , For the Upland men still prize The king who o'er the sea Steers to bloody victory . 
Earl Svein ! thou now wilt know That our lads can make blood flow That the Hedemarkers hale Can do more than tap good ale . 
King Olaf gave his stepfather King Sigurd Syr , and the other chiefs who had assisted him , handsome presents at parting . 
He gave Ketil of Ringanes a yacht of fifteen benches of rowers , which Ketil brought up the Raum river and into the Mjosen lake . 
and when he found that the earl had left the country he sailed out west , and to Viken , where many people came to him . 
When Olaf came to Throndhjem there was no opposition , and he was elected there to be king . 
he took his seat in the town of Nidaros , and collected the needful winter provision . 
He built a king's house , and raised Clement's church on the spot on which it now stands . 
He parcelled out building ground , which he gave to bondes , merchants , or others who he thought would build . 
There he sat down with many men at arms around him for he put no great confidence in the Throndhjem people , if the earl should return to the country . 
The people of the interior of the Throndhjem country showed this clearly , for he got no land scat from them . 
PLAN OF SVEIN AND THE SWEDISH KING . 
In the meantime , however , it was determined to take a cruise in summer in the Baltic to gather property . 
in marauding there but on the approach of autumn returned with his ships to Svithjod . 
There he fell into a sickness , which proved fatal . 
Einar Tambaskelfer , and the people who had followed him went in winter to the Swedish king , and were received in a friendly manner . 
There were also among them many who had followed the earl . 
He said that Olaf ought not to have had the presumption to take the dominions which the earl had held of him and all the Swedish king's men agreed with him . 
But the Throndhjem people , when they heard for certain that the earl was dead . 
and could not be expected back to Norway , turned all to obedience to King Olaf . 
Many came from the interior of the Throndhjem country , and became King Olaf's men others sent word and tokens that they would service him . 
Then , in autumn , he went into the interior of Throndhjem , and held Things with the bondes , and was received as king in each district . 
He returned to Nidaros , and brought there all the king's scat and revenue , and had his winter seat provided there . 
King Olaf built a king's house in Nidaros , and in it was a large room for his court , with doors at both ends . 
When people of importance came to him , they also had a seat of honour . 
The ale was drunk by the fire light . 
He divided the service among his men after the fashion of other kings . 
He had in his house sixty court men and thirty pursuivants and to them he gave pay and certain regulations . 
He had also thirty house servants to do the needful work about the house , and procure what was required . 
He had , besides , many slaves . 
At the house were many outbuildings , in which the court men slept . 
There was also a large room , in which the king held his court meetings . 
Thereafter he went to the Thing meeting , to bring people to agreement with each other , or to talk of one or the other matter that appeared to him necessary . 
He invited to him great and small who were known to be men of understanding . 
And he succeeded so far that the bondes accepted of the laws which the king proposed . 
King Olaf was a good and very gentle man , of little speech , and open handed although greedy of money . 
Sigvat the skald , as before related , was in King Olaf's house , and several Iceland men . 
They also told the king about many principal men who were then in Iceland . 
Skapte Thorodson was then the lagman of the country . 
Such conversation was usually carried on by him or else he spoke about the laws and rights of the country . 
The messengers proceeded farther down the valley but received at every Thing they held the same answer , and no money . 
They went forward to Skaun , held a Thing there , and demanded scat but it went there as before . 
Then they came to Stjoradal , and summoned a Thing , but the bondes would not come to it . 
Now the messengers saw that their business was a failure and Thorgaut proposed that they should turn about , and go eastward again . 
I do not think , says Asgaut , that we have performed the king's errand unless we go to King Olaf the Thick , since the bondes refer the matter to him . 
He was their commander so they proceeded to the town , and took lodging there . 
The day after they presented themselves to the king , just as he was seated at table , saluted him , and said they came with a message of the Swedish king . 
The king told them to come to him next day . 
Next day the king , having heard mass , went to his Thing house , ordered the messengers of the Swedish king to be called , and told them to produce their message . 
The king replies with all gentleness , I will give thee an advice , Asgaut , in return . 
There he may come if he likes , that we may conclude a peace with each other and each of us will retain the kingdom to which he is born . 
Now the messengers turned back to their lodging , and prepared for their departure , and the king went to table . 
The messengers came back soon after to the king's house but the doorkeepers saw it , and reported it to the king , who told them not to let the messengers in . 
I will not speak with them , said he . 
Then the messengers went off , and Thorgaut said he would now return home with his men but Asgaut insisted still that he would go forward with the king's errand so they separated . 
Thorgaut proceeded accordingly through Strind but Asgaut went into Gaulardal and Orkadal , and intended proceeding southwards to More , to deliver his king's message . 
The king was highly enraged when he heard the account of it and he had no lack of high words . 
King Olaf Haraldson calls out an army from the Throndhjem land , and makes ready to proceed eastward . 
Some of the Iceland traders were then ready to sail from Norway . 
He sent , besides , a message of friendship to the people in general . 
It was thus come so far that the people were baptized in the most places on the sea coast , but the most of them were ignorant of Christian law . 
But the king threatened the most violent proceedings against great or small , who , after the king's message , would not adopt Christianity . 
In the meantime Olaf was proclaimed king in every Law Thing in the country , and no man spoke against him . 
While he lay in Karmtsund messengers went between him and Erling Skjalgson , who endeavoured to make peace between them and the meeting was appointed in Whitings Isle . 
Erling had no disposition to sue for even the smallest thing and he saw that the king was not easily dealt with . 
And thus their conference ended . 
Erling's relations and friends came to him afterwards , and advised him to give way , and proceed with more prudence and less pride . 
Thou wilt still , they said , be the most important and most respected lenderman in Norway , both on account of thy own and thy relations' abilities and great wealth . 
Erling found that this was prudent advice , and that they who gave it did so with a good intention , and he followed it accordingly . 
Erling went into the king's service on such conditions as the king himself should determine and please . 
Thereafter they separated in some shape reconciled , and Olaf went his way eastward along the coast . 
As soon as it was reported that Olaf had come to Viken , the Danes who had offices under the Danish king set off for Denmark , without waiting for King Olaf . 
But King Olaf sailed in along Viken , holding Things with the bondes . 
All the people of the country submitted to him , and thereafter he took all the king's taxes , and remained the summer in Viken . 
He then sailed east from Tunsberg across the fjord , and all the way east to Svinasund . 
Hroe had family friends on both sides of the river , and also great farms on Hising Island , and was besides a mighty and very rich man . 
Eilif was also of great family , and very wealthy . 
Now when King Olaf came to Ranrike he summoned the people to a Thing , and all who dwelt on the sea coast or in the out islands came to him . 
We know , also , that by turns they have made inroads upon each other's territories , and that the Swedes have long had power all the way to Svinasund . 
Now it is for the king to give us good counsel , for we have great desire to be his men . 
After the Thing , in the evening , Brynjolf was in the king's tent , and the day after likewise , and they had much private conversation together . 
Then the king proceeded eastwards along Viken . 
Many of the bondes came to King Olaf , but some sent friendly messages to him . 
People went between King Olaf and Eilif , and they entreated each separately to hold a Thing meeting between themselves , and make peace in one way or another . 
They told Eilif that they might expect violent treatment from King Olaf if they opposed his orders but promised Eilif he should not want men . 
It was determined that they should come down from the high country , and hold a thing with the bondes and the king . 
King Olaf thereupon sent the chief of his pursuivants , Thorer Lange , with six men , to Brynjolf . 
They were equipped with their coats of mail under their cloaks , and their hats over their helmets . 
The following day the bondes came in crowds down with Eilif and in his suite was Brynjolf , and with him Thorer . 
The king laid his ships close to a rocky knoll that stuck out into the sea , and upon it the king went with his people , and sat down . 
Below was a flat field , on which the bondes' force was but Eilif's men were drawn up , forming a shield fence before him . 
Then the whole bonde force started up but the Gautland men set off in full flight and Thorer with his people killed several of them . 
Now when the crowd was settled again , and the noise over the king stood up , and told the bondes to seat themselves . 
They did so , and then much was spoken . 
King Olaf then brought the whole northern district under his power , and went in summer eastward as far as the Gaut river , and got all the king's scat among the islands . 
was drawing towards an end he returned north to Viken , and sailed up the Raum river to a waterfall called Sarp . 
On the north side of the fall , a point of land juts out into the river . 
He had a king's house put up , and ordered the building of Mary church . 
He also laid out plans for other houses , and got people to build on them . 
, and sat there with a great many people , and the rest he quartered in the neighbouring districts . 
The king prohibited all exports from Viken to Gautland of herrings and salt , which the Gautland people could ill do without . 
This year the king held a great Yule feast , to which he invited many great bondes . 
THE HISTORY OF EYVIND URARHORN . 
There was a man called Eyvind Urarhorn , who was a great man , of high birth , who had his descent from the East Agder country . 
of twenty benches of rowers . 
Eyvind was at the Yule feast of the king , and received goodly gifts from him . 
Brynjolf composed a song about these gifts , of which the refrain was The song famed hero to my hand Gave a good sword , and Vettaland . 
The king afterwards gave him the title of Lenderman , and Brynjolf was ever after the king's greatest friend . 
Thrand White from Throndhjem went east to Jamtaland , to take up scat upon account of King Olaf . 
King Olaf was very ill pleased when he heard this news . 
King Olaf made Christian law to be proclaimed in Viken , in the same way as in the North country . 
King Olaf sent a message that Eyvind Urarhorn should come to him and they spake together in private for a long time . 
Thereafter Eyvind made himself ready for a viking cruise . 
He sailed south towards Viken , and brought up at the Eikreys Isles without Hising Isle . 
Eyvind rowed in by Haugasund , and Hroe came rowing from the north , and they met in the sound and fought . 
Hroe fell there , with nearly thirty men and Eyvind took all the goods Hroe had with him . 
Eyvind then proceeded to the Baltic , and was all summer on a viking cruise . 
FALL OF GUDLEIK AND THORGAUT . 
There was a man called Gudleik Gerske , who came originally from Agder . 
He was a great merchant , who went far and wide by sea , was very rich , and drove a trade with various countries . 
, and therefore was called Gudleik Gerske . 
Gudleik fitted out his ship , and intended to go east in summer to Russia . 
Gudleik said that it should be according to the king's desire . 
The king ordered as much money to be delivered to Gudleik as he thought sufficient , and then Gudleik set out for the Baltic . 
, as Gudleik was returning from the east , he met a contrary wind , and lay for a long time at the island Eyland . 
There came Thorgaut Skarde , who in autumn had heard of Gudleik's course , in a long ship against him , and gave him battle . 
Thereafter Thorgaut proceeded east to Svithjod . 
There Thorgaut and the most of his men were killed , and the rest sprang overboard . 
The king thanked him in the most friendly way for his proceeding , and promised him anew his favour and friendship . 
At this time Olaf had been three years king over Norway . 
MEETING OF OLAF AND RAGNVALD . 
King Olaf ordered a levy , and went out eastwards to the Gaut river , where he lay a great part of the summer . 
Messages were passing between King Olaf , Earl Ragnvald , and the earl's wife , Ingebjorg , the daughter of Trygve . 
She was very zealous about giving King Olaf of Norway every kind of help , and made it a matter of her deepest interest . 
For this there were two causes . 
The king thereupon returned north to Viken , and had all the royal revenues up to the Gaut river and all the people of the country there had submitted to him . 
King Olaf the Swede had so great a hatred of Olaf Haraldson , that no man dared to call him by his right name in the king's hearing . 
They called him the thick man and never named him without some hard by name . 
At last they begged Bjorn the marshal to bring this matter before the king , and entreat him to send messengers to the Swedish king to offer peace on his side . 
Hjalte Skeggjason came over to Norway from Iceland , according to the message sent him by King Olaf , and went directly to the king . 
There was good fellowship immediately between them . 
Now it is the wish of the lendermen , of your other people , and of the bondes that this should come to an end . 
This speech of Bjorn's received great applause . 
Then the king said , It is fair , Bjorn , that the advice thou hast given should be carried out by thyself . 
Moreover , it belongs to thy office to declare to the multitude what I wish to have told . 
Then the king stood up , went to the church , and had high mass sung before him and thereafter went to table . 
The king's luck is great and much honour will be gained by this business , if it succeed . 
Certainly , says Hjalte I will follow thee , if thou wilt for never again shall I fall in with such a comrade if we part . 
JOURNEY OF BJORN THE MARSHAL . 
when the king was at a Thing meeting , Bjorn came with eleven others . 
He says to the king that they were now ready to proceed on their mission , and that their horses stood saddled at the door . 
And now , says he , I would know with what errand I am to go , or what orders thou givest us . 
To him ye shall go and bring him word from me to advance your errand with his counsel and strength . 
This thy errand I will think well fulfilled if thou hearest the Swedish king's own words , be they yea or nay and this gold ring thou shalt give Earl Ragnvald . 
The king asked where Hjalte was going . 
With Bjorn , said he . 
Bjorn and his followers rode their way , and came to Earl Ragnvald's court , where they were well received . 
Ingebjorg , the earl's wife , went up to Hjalte and looked at him . 
They enjoyed here good entertainment . 
One day Bjorn entered into conversation with the earl and Ingebjorg , in which he set forth his errand , and produced to the earl his tokens . 
King Olaf , king of Sweden , is too proud for any man to speak to him on anything he is angry at . 
Then said IngebJorg , I will soon declare my opinion . 
But I will have my own counsel followed , and will not run hastily into Bjorn's or any other man's measures , in such a highly important matter . 
It is my will that ye all remain here with me , so long as I think it necessary for the purpose of rightly forwarding this mission . 
Thereafter Bjorn and his fellow travellers remained very long in the earl's house . 
Before writing was a common accomplishment in courts , the only way of accrediting a special messenger between kings and great men was by giving the messenger a token that is . 
some article well known by the person receiving the message to be the property of and valued by the person sending it . 
CONVERSATION OF BJORN AND INGEBJORG . 
Ingebjorg was particularly kind to them and Bjorn often spoke with her about the matter , and was ill at ease that their journey was so long delayed . 
I have heard that there are Iceland men in the king's house who are my acquaintances , and are well treated namely , the skalds Gissur Black and Ottar Black . 
This counsel appeared to Bjorn and Ingebjorg to be the wisest , and they resolved upon it among themselves . 
Hjalte set off as soon as he was ready . 
When he came to King Olaf he soon found the skalds Gissur and Ottar , and they were very glad at his coming . 
The king told them to take Hjalte and his fellow travellers into their company and quarters . 
Now when Hjalte had resided there a short time , and got acquainted with people , he was much respected by everybody . 
He became thus known to the king , who willingly entered into conversation with him , and heard from him news about Iceland . 
It happened that before Bjorn set out from home he asked Sigvat the skald , who at that time was with King Olaf , to accompany him on his journey . 
It was a journey for which people had no great inclination . 
There was , however , great friendship between Bjorn and Sigvat . 
Bjorn ! brave stainer of the sword , Thou art my friend I trust thy word . 
While they were riding up to Gautland , Sigvat made these verses Down the Fjord sweep wind and rain , Our stout ship's sails and tackle strain Wet to the skin . 
And now our ship , so gay and grand , Glides past the green and lovely land , And at the isle Moors for a while . 
Far from the Danes , we now may ride Safely by stream or mountain side But , in this twilight , in some ditch The horse and rider both may pitch . 
They rode through the merchant town of Skara , and down the street to the earl's house . 
Spur on ! that every pretty lass May hear our horse hoofs as we pass Clatter upon the stones so hard , And echo round the paved court yard . 
HJALTE SKEGGJASON WHILE HE WAS IN SVITHIOD . 
With this he showed the silver to the king , and laid ten marks of silver in Gissur Black's lap . 
But I will that thou shouldst take this money from me as a gift , and with it my friendship . 
They answered , that this was an easy thing to do and went one day to her house , where she sat at the drinking table with many men . 
She received the skalds in a friendly manner , for they were known to her . 
The king's daughter received him also kindly , and said he should be welcome to her friendship . 
They sat there till late in the day drinking . 
The king's daughter made Hjalte tell her much news , and invited him to come often and converse with her . 
It happened one day that Hjalte was sitting with the king and talking to him , and the king was very merry and drunk . 
Thou must not speak thus , Hjalte but for this time I will not take it amiss of thee , as thou dost not know what people have to avoid here . 
But Norway is little inhabited , and the inhabitants are scattered . 
Gunhild's sons also were cut off when they became disobedient to the Danish kings and Harald Gormson joined Norway to his own dominions , and made it subject to scat to him . 
Now thou canst well suppose , as a man of sense , that I will not let slip the kingdom of Norway for this thick fellow . 
It is wonderful he does not remember how narrowly he made his escape , when we had penned him in in the Malar lake . 
Although he slipped away with life from thence , he ought , methinks , to have something else in his mind than to hold out against us Swedes . 
Now , Hjalte , thou must never again open thy mouth in my presence on such a subject . 
Hjalte saw sufficiently that there was no hope of the king's listening to any proposal of a peace , and desisted from speaking of it , and turned the conversation to something else . 
When Hjalte , afterwards , came into discourse with the king's daughter Ingegerd , he tells her his conversation with the king . 
She told him she expected such an answer from the king . 
Hjalte assured her he would be thankful for the attempt . 
The king replies in a rage , It is thy counsel , Ingegerd , that I should let slip the kingdom of Norway , and give thee in marriage to this thick Olaf . 
No , says he , something else shall first take place . 
The king was so mad with rage that nobody ventured to say a word , and she went away . 
Hjalte , who was watching for her , immediately went to her and asked how her errand to the king had turned out . 
Hjalte replied , that he had in no respect spoken better of the king than was true . 
They often spoke together on the same subject . 
Ingegerd begged Hjalte to be cautious not to mention it to any other person , for the king would be enraged against him if it came to his knowledge . 
Hjalte only spoke of it to the skalds Gissur and Ottar , who thought it was the most happy plan , if it could but be carried into effect . 
which the king's daughter Ingegerd sent to the earl and Ingebjorg . 
This seems the first notice we have in the sagas of written letters being sent instead of tokens and verbal messages . 
OLAF'S JOURNEY TO THE UPLANDS . 
to live as guest in the Uplands for it had been the custom of former kings to make a progress in guest quarters every third year in the Uplands . 
In autumn he began his progress from Sarpsborg , and went first to Vingulmark . 
He went thus through the whole district , sparing neither great nor small . 
He gave them teachers , and placed these as thickly in the country as he saw needful . 
In this manner he went about in that district , and had deadly men at arms with him and then proceeded to Raumarike . 
He soon perceived that Christianity was thriving less the farther he proceeded into the interior of the country . 
He went forward everywhere in the same way , converting all the people to the right faith , and severely punishing all who would not listen to his word . 
TREACHERY OF THE UPLAND KINGS . 
Therefore this king resolved to go up to Hedemark , and consult King Hrorek , who was the most eminent for understanding of the kings who at that time were in the country . 
They did not spare their travelling for five kings met in Hedemark , at a place called Ringsaker . 
Ring , King Hrorek's brother , was the fifth of these kings . 
He added , that he had fled hither upon account of this disturbance , and many powerful people with him had fled from their udal properties in Raumarike . 
We are here five kings , and none of less high birth than Olaf . 
We gave him the strength to fight with Earl Svein , and with our forces he has brought the country under his power . 
And this I can tell you , that we shall never bear our heads in safety while Olaf is in life . 
After this encouragement they all agreed to his determination . 
Then said Hrorek , With regard to this determination , it appears to me necessary to make our agreement so strong that no one shall fail in his promise to the other . 
In some places he stayed longer , in others , shorter than was fixed and his journey down to the lake Miosen was shorter than had been fixed on . 
Then they sent away the lendermen to gather the people , and meet all at the appointed place . 
The most approved of the measure but it happened here , as it usually does , that every one has some friend even among his enemies . 
MUTILATING OF THE UPLAND KINGS . 
Ketil of Ringanes was at this meeting . 
They found in the boat house everything ready to their hands betook themselves to their oars , and rowed out into the lake . 
Ketil had forty well armed men with him , and came early in the morning to the end of the lake . 
He set off immediately with twenty men , leaving the other twenty to look after the ship . 
King Olaf was at that time at Eid , in the upper end of Raumarike . 
Thither Ketil arrived just as the king was coming from matins . 
The king received Ketil kindly . 
He said he must speak with the king in all haste and they had a private conference together . 
There Ketil tells the king the resolution which the kings had taken , and their agreement , which he had come to the certain knowledge of . 
Thereafter he went to the church , had mass sung before him , and then sat down to table . 
After his meal he got ready , and hastened down to the lake , where the vessels were coming to meet him . 
Ketil knew well in what houses the kings slept , and the king had all these houses surrounded and guarded , so that nobody could get out and so they stood till daylight . 
The kings had not people enough to make resistance , but were all taken prisoners , and led before the king . 
He ordered Gudrod's tongue to be cut out but Ring and two others he banished from Norway , under oath never to return . 
Of the lendermen and bondes who had actually taken part in the traitorous design , some he drove out of the country , some he mutilated , and with others he made peace . 
Ottar Black tells of this The giver of rings of gold , The army leader bold , In vengeance springs On the Hedemark kings . 
Olaf the bold and great , Repays their foul deceit In full repays Their treacherous ways . 
He drives with steel clad hand The small kings from the land , Greater by far In deed of war . 
The king who dwelt most north Tongueless must wander forth All fly away In great dismay . 
King Olaf now rules o'er What five kings ruled before . 
To Eid's old bound Extends his ground . 
No kings in days of yore E'er won so much before That this is so All Norsemen know . 
King Olaf took possession of the land these five kings had possessed , and took hostages from the lendermen and bondes in it . 
He took money instead of guest quarters from the country north of the valley district , and from Hedemark and then returned to Raumarike , and so west to Hadaland . 
his stepfather Sigurd Syr died and King Olaf went to Ringerike , where his mother Asta made a great feast for him . 
Olaf alone bore the title of king now in Norway . 
It is told that when King Olaf was on his visit to his mother Asta , she brought out her children , and showed them to him . 
The king took his brother Guthorm on the one knee , and his brother Halfdan on the other . 
The king looked at Guthorm , made a wry face , and pretended to be angry at them at which the boys were afraid . 
Then Asta brought her youngest son , called Harald , who was three years old , to him . 
The king made a wry face at him also but he looked the king in the face without regarding it . 
The king took the boy by the hair , and plucked it but the boy seized the king's whiskers , and gave them a tug . 
Then , said the king , thou wilt be revengeful , my friend , some day . 
The following day the king was walking with his mother about the farm , and they came to a playground , where Asta's sons , Guthorm and Halfdan , were amusing themselves . 
The king asked him what these were and he answered , these were his ships of war . 
The king laughed , and said , The time may come , friend , when thou wilt command ships . 
Then the king called to him Halfdan and Guthorm and first he asked Guthorm , What wouldst thou like best to have ? Corn land , replied he . 
And how great wouldst thou like thy corn land to be ? I would have the whole ness that goes out into the lake sown with corn every summer . 
On that ness there are ten farms . 
The king replies , There would be a great deal of corn there . 
And , turning to Halfdan , he asked , And what wouldst thou like best to have ? Cows , he replied . 
That would be a great housekeeping , said the king and therein ye take after your father . 
Then the king says to Harald , And what wouldst thou like best to have ? House servants . 
And how many wouldst thou have ? Oh ! so many I would like to have as would eat up my brother Halfdan's cows at a single meal . 
The king laughed , and said to Asta , Here , mother , thou art bringing up a king . 
And more is not related of them on this occasion . 
THE DIVISION OF THE COUNTRY . 
In Svithjod it was the old custom , as long as heathenism prevailed , that the chief sacrifice took place in Goe month at Upsala . 
Then sacrifice was offered for peace , and victory to the king and thither came people from all parts of Svithjod . 
There is then the Swedish Thing also , and people from all quarters come there . 
Svithjod is divided into many parts . 
The other part is East Gautland , where there is also a bishop's seat , to which the islands of Gotland and Eyland belong and forming all together a still greater bishopric . 
In Svithjod itself there is a part of the country called Sudermanland , where there is also a bishopric . 
Then comes Westmanland , or Fiathrundaland , which is also a bishopric . 
The third portion of Svithjod proper is called Tiundaland the fourth Attandaland the fifth Sialand , and what belongs to it lies eastward along the coast . 
Tiundaland is the best and most inhabited part of Svithjod , under which the other kingdoms stand . 
There Upsala is situated , the seat of the king and archbishop and from it Upsala audr , or the domain of the Swedish kings , takes its name . 
Each of these divisions of the country has its Lag thing , and its own laws in many parts . 
And in all matters in which the laws differ from each other , Upsala law is the directing law and the other lagmen are under the lagman who dwells in Tiundaland . 
In Tiundaland there was a lagman who was called Thorgny , whose father was called Thorgny Thorgnyson . 
His forefathers had for a long course of years , and during many kings' times , been lagmen of Tiundaland . 
At this time Thorgny was old , and had a great court about him . 
He was considered one of the wisest men in Sweden , and was Earl Ragnvald's relation and foster father . 
MEETING OF RAGNVALD AND INGEGERD . 
Now we must go back in our story to the time when the men whom the king's daughter Ingegerd and Hjalte had sent from the east came to Earl Ragnvald . 
Now the winter was passing fast , and immediately after Yule the earl made himself ready to travel with sixty men , among whom where the marshal Bjorn and his companions . 
When the king's daughter got the earl's message she made herself ready immediately to travel with a large attendance , and Hjalte accompanied her . 
The king says , Farewell , then a man thou art of understanding and politeness , and well suited to live with people of rank . 
The king's daughter Ingegerd rode to her farm in Ullaraker , and ordered a great feast to be prepared for the earl . 
When the earl arrived he was welcomed with gladness , and he remained there several days . 
She replies , My father disposes of my hand but among all my other relations thou art he whose advice I would rather follow in weighty affairs . 
Dost thou think it would be advisable ? The earl recommended it to her strongly , and reckoned up many excellent achievements of King Olaf's . 
Much they talked about the business , and in all their conversations they perfectly agreed with each other . 
When the earl was ready he took leave , and proceeded on his way , taking Hjalte with him . 
Earl Ragnvald came towards evening one day to the house of Lagman Thorgny . 
It was a great and stately mansion , and many people stood outside , who received the earl kindly , and took care of the horses and baggage . 
The earl went into the room , where there was a number of people . 
In the high seat sat an old man and never had Bjorn or his companions seen a man so stout . 
His beard was so long that it lay upon his knee , and was spread over his whole breast and the man , moreover , was handsome and stately in appearance . 
The earl went forward and saluted him . 
Thorgny received him joyfully and kindly , and bade him go to the seat he was accustomed to take . 
The earl seated himself on the other side , opposite Thorgny . 
They remained there some days before the earl disclosed his errand , and then he asked Thorgny to go with him into the conversing room . 
Bjorn and his followers went there with the earl . 
Then the earl began , and told how Olaf king of Norway had sent these men hither to conclude a peaceful agreement . 
He showed at great length what injury it was of to the West Gautland people , that there was hostility between their country and Norway . 
Now when the earl had done speaking Thorgny sat silent for a while , and then took up the word . 
Ye have curious dispositions who are so ambitious of honour and renown , and yet have no prudence or counsel in you when you get into any mischief . 
But I must go to the Upsala Thing , and give thee such help that without fear thou canst speak before the king what thou findest good . 
The earl thanked him for the promise , remained with Thorgny , and rode with him to the Upsala Thing . 
There was a great assemblage of people at the Thing , and King Olaf was there with his court . 
The first day the Thing sat , King Olaf was seated on a stool , and his court stood in a circle around him . 
Right opposite to him sat Earl Ragnvald and Thorgny in the Thing upon one stool , and before them the earl's court and Thorgny's house people . 
Behind their stool stood the bonde community , all in a circle around them . 
Some stood upon hillocks and heights , in order to hear the better . 
Thereupon Bjorn sat down and when the noise had ceased Earl Ragnvald stood up and made a speech . 
The earl added , that Olaf the Norway king had sent men hither with the intent to obtain Ingegerd the king's daughter in marriage . 
He added , that it would be well deserved if Earl Ragnvald were driven out of the kingdom . 
The king spoke long and bitterly , turning his speech always against Olaf the Thick . 
When he sat down not a sound was to be heard at first . 
Then Thorgny stood up and when he arose all the bondes stood up who had before been sitting , and rushed together from all parts to listen to what Lagman Thorgny would say . 
At first there was a great din of people and weapons but when the noise was settled into silent listening , Thorguy made his speech . 
The disposition of Swedish kings is different now from what it has been formerly . 
And , more over , he was not so proud that he would not listen to people who had anything to say to him . 
My father , again , was a long time with King Bjorn , and was well acquainted with his ways and manners . 
In Bjorn's lifetime his kingdom stood in great power , and no kind of want was felt , and he was gay and sociable with his friends . 
I also remember King Eirik the Victorious , and was with him on many a war expedition . 
He enlarged the Swedish dominion , and defended it manfully and it was also easy and agreeable to communicate our opinions to him . 
But the king we have now got allows no man to presume to talk with him , unless it be what he desires to hear . 
On this alone he applies all his power , while he allows his scat lands in other countries to go from him through laziness and weakness . 
He wants to have the Norway kingdom laid under him , which no Swedish king before him ever desired , and therewith brings war and distress on many a man . 
Now it is our will , we bondes , that thou King Olaf make peace with the Norway king , Olaf the Thick , and marry thy daughter Ingegerd to him . 
Wilt thou , however , reconquer the kingdoms in the east countries which thy relations and forefathers had there , we will all for that purpose follow thee to the war . 
But if thou wilt not do as we desire , we will now attack thee , and put thee to death for we will no longer suffer law and peace to be disturbed . 
So our forefathers went to work when they drowned five kings in a morass at the Mula thing , and they were filled with the same insupportable pride thou hast shown towards us . 
Now tell us , in all haste , what resolution thou wilt take . 
Then the whole public approved , with clash of arms and shouts , the lagman's speech . 
The king stands up and says he will let things go according to the desire of the bondes . 
All Swedish kings , he said , have done so , and have allowed the bondes to rule in all according to their will . 
When the earl returned homewards , he and the king's daughter Ingegerd had a meeting , at which they talked between themselves over this matter . 
She sent Olaf a long cloak of fine linen richly embroidered with gold , and with silk points . 
The earl returned to Gautland , and Bjorn with him and after staying with him a short time , Bjorn and his company returned to Norway . 
He then sent messages to all the lendermen , selected the most considerable men in each district , and made the most splendid preparations to meet his bride . 
The wedding feast was to be in autumn , at the Gaut river , on the frontiers of the two countries . 
King Olaf had with him the blind king Hrorek . 
Hrorek was taciturn , and answered short and cross when any one spoke to him . 
It was his custom to make his footboy , when he went out in the daytime , lead him away from people , and then to beat the lad until he ran away . 
He would then complain to King Olaf that the lad would not serve him . 
The king changed his servants , but it was as before no servant would hold it out with King Hrorek . 
Then the king appointed a man called Svein to wait upon and serve King Hrorek . 
He was Hrorek's relation , and had formerly been in his service . 
Hrorek continued with his habits of moroseness , and of solitary walks but when he and Svein were alone together , he was merry and talkative . 
He used to bring up many things which had happened in former days when he was king . 
He alluded , too , to the man who had , in his former days , torn him from his kingdom and happiness , and made him live on alms . 
Such discourse he often brought out . 
Svein said , they had too great a power to deal with , while they themselves had but little means . 
Hrorek said , Why should we live longer as mutilated men with disgrace ? I , a blind man , may conquer them as well as they conquered me when I was asleep . 
Come then , let us kill this thick Olaf . 
He is not afraid for himself at present . 
So much persuasion he used that Svein at last agreed to join in the deed . 
The plan was so laid that when the king was ready to go to vespers , Svein stood on the threshold with a drawn dagger under his cloak . 
The king ordered Hrorek's seat to be moved to another bench . 
He gave Svein his life , and he left the country . 
The king appointed a different lodging for Hrorek to sleep in from that in which he slept himself , and in which many of his court people slept . 
King Hrorek's mood was very different at different times . 
Sometimes his words were very bitter . 
He was sometimes in a mood that he would drink them all under the benches , and made all his neighbours drunk but in general he drank but little . 
King Olaf gave him plenty of pocket money . 
There was a man from the Uplands called Fin the Little , and some said of him that he was of Finnish race . 
He was a remarkable little man , but so swift of foot that no horse could overtake him . 
He was a particularly well excercised runner with snow shoes , and shooter with the bow . 
He had long been in the service of King Hrorek , and often employed in errands of trust . 
He knew the roads in all the Upland hills , and was well known to all the great people . 
The king , however , only spoke a word or two with him at a time , to prevent suspicion . 
In spring , when they came a little way beyond Viken , Fin disappeared from the army for some days , but came back , and stayed with them a while . 
This happened often , without anyone observing it particularly for there were many such hangers on with the army . 
ENDNOTES The Laplanders are called Fins In Norway and Sweden . 
MURDER OF OLAF'S COURT MEN . 
, and remained there late in spring . 
Many merchant vessels came to the town , both from Saxon land and Denmark , and from Viken , and from the north parts of the country . 
There was a great assemblage of people and as the times were good , there was many a drinking meeting . 
It happened one evening that King Hrorek came rather late to his lodging and as he had drunk a great deal , he was remarkably merry . 
Little Fin came to him with a stoup of mead with herbs in it , and very strong . 
The king made every one in the house drunk , until they fell asleep each in his berth . 
Fin had gone away , and a light was burning in the lodging . 
Hrorek waked the men who usually followed him , and told them he wanted to go out into the yard . 
They had a lantern with them , for outside it was pitch dark . 
Out in the yard there was a large privy standing upon pillars , and a stair to go up to it . 
While Hrorek and his guards were in the yard they heard a man say , Cut down that devil and presently a crash , as if somebody fell . 
Hrorek said , These fellows must be dead drunk to be fighting with each other so run and separate them . 
They rushed out but when they came out upon the steps both of them were killed the man who went out the last was the first killed . 
There were twelve of Hrorek's men there , and among them Sigurd Hit , who had been his banner man , and also little Fin . 
They drew the dead bodies up between the houses , took the king with them , ran out to a boat they had in readiness , and rowed away . 
Sigvat the skald slept in King Olaf's lodgings . 
He got up in the night , and his footboy with him , and went to the privy . 
But as they were returning , on going down the stairs Sigvat's foot slipped , and he fell on his knee and when he put out his hands he felt the stairs wet . 
I think , said he , laughing , the king must have given many of us tottering legs tonight . 
Thereupon he wakened Thord Folason , who was standard bearer , and his bedfellow . 
They went out with a light , and soon found the blood . 
They traced it , and found the corpses , and knew them . 
Sigvat and Thord spoke together and agreed it was highly necessary to let the king know of this without delay . 
They immediately sent a lad to the lodging where Hrorek had been . 
All the men in it were asleep but the king was gone . 
He wakened the men who were in the house , and told them what had happened . 
We must never let the disgrace rest upon us of concealing this treason from the king . 
Go thou , up to the lodging , and wait for me there . 
Sigvat then went to the church , and told the bell ringer to toll for the souls of the king's court men , naming the men who were killed . 
The bell ringer did as he was told . 
The king awoke at the ringing , sat up in his bed , and asked if it was already the hours of matins . 
Thord replies , It is worse than that , for there has occurred a very important affair . 
Hrorek is fled , and two of the court men are killed . 
The king asked how this had taken place , and Thord told him all he knew . 
King Hrorek was there with thirty men . 
When they came quite close to each other Hrorek and his men turned towards the land , and all sprang on shore except the king , who sat on the aft seat . 
He bade them farewell , and wished they might meet each other again in better luck . 
At the same moment Thorer with his company rowed to the land . 
Thorer's men took his body , and transported it , together with Hrorek , to Tunsberg . 
King Hrorek thereafter was very gay , and nobody could observe but that he was in every way well satisfied . 
There Hrorek sat next to the king , and concealed his countenance in his upper cloak . 
When Olaf had seated himself Hrorek laid his hand on the king's shoulder , and felt it . 
Thou hast fine clothes on , cousin , today , said he . 
King Olaf replies , It is a festival today , in remembrance that Jesus Christ ascended to heaven from earth . 
King Hrorek says , I understand nothing about it so as to hold in my mind what ye tell me about Christ . 
Much of what ye tell me appears to me incredible , although many wonderful things may have come to pass in old times . 
When the mass was finished Olaf stood up , held his hands up over his head , and bowed down before the altar , so that his cloak hung down behind his shoulders . 
The clothes were much cut , but the king was not wounded . 
After this attempt many hastened to King Olaf , and advised that King Hrorek should be killed . 
As yet I can scarcely see whether Hrorek puts me in the necessity of killing him or not . 
It was to feel if King Olaf had armour on or not that Hrorek had laid his hand on the king's shoulder . 
KING HROREK'S JOURNEY TO ICELAND . 
There was an Iceland man , by name Thorarin Nefiulfson , who had his relations in the north of the country . 
He was not of high birth , but particularly prudent , eloquent , and agreeable in conversation with people of distinction . 
He was also a far travelled man , who had been long in foreign parts . 
Thorarin was a remarkably ugly man , principally because he had very ungainly limbs . 
He had great ugly hands , and his feet were still uglier . 
Thorarin was in Tunsberg when this event happened which has just been related , and he was known to King Olaf by their having had conversations together . 
Thorarin was just then done with rigging out a merchant vessel which he owned , and with which he intended to go to Iceland in summer . 
King Olaf had Thorarin with him as a guest for some days , and conversed much with him and Thorarin even slept in the king's lodgings . 
One morning early the king awoke while the others were still sleeping . 
The sun had newly risen in the sky , and there was much light within . 
The king saw that Thorarin had stretched out one of his feet from under the bed clothes , and he looked at the foot a while . 
Thereupon he told the others to look at it , and see if it was not so and all agreed with the king . 
When Thorarin observed what they were talking about , he said , There are few things for which you cannot find a match , and that may be the case here . 
The king says , I would rather say that such another ugly foot cannot be found in the town , and I would lay any wager upon it . 
Then said Thorarin , I am willing to bet that I shall find an uglier foot still in the town . 
The king Then he who wins shall have the right to get any demand from the other he chooses to make . 
Be it so , said Thorarin . 
Thereupon he stretches out his other foot from under the bed clothes , and it was in no way handsomer than the other , and moreover , wanted the little toe . 
There , said Thorarin , see now , king , my other foot , which is so much uglier and , besides , has no little toe . 
Thorarin replies , I have never been in Greenland . 
The king Thou , who art a far travelled man , wilt now have an opportunity of seeing Greenland , if thou hast never been there before . 
It would have been to be received into your body of court men and if you will grant me that , I will be the more zealous now in fulfilling your pleasure . 
The king gave his consent , and Thorarin was made one of the court men . 
Then Thorarin rigged out his vessel , and when he was ready he took on board King Hrorek . 
He did not immediately get a good wind , but he avoided coming near the land . 
He sailed until he made land which he knew , in the south part of Iceland , and sailed west around the land out into the Greenland ocean . 
There he encountered heavy storms , and drove long about upon the ocean but when summer was coming to an end he landed again in Iceland in Breidafjord . 
was the first man of any consequence who came to him . 
Thorarin brings him the king's salutation , message , and tokens , with which was the desire about King Hrorek's reception . 
Thorgils received these in a friendly way , and invited King Hrorek to his house , where he stayed all winter . 
Thorgils let him have his desire , and conducted him with some men to Gudmund at Modruveller . 
Gudmund received Hrorek kindly on account of the king's message , and he stayed there the next winter . 
He did not like being there either and then Gudmund gave him a habitation upon a small farm called Kalfskin , where there were but few neighbours . 
There Hrorek passed the third winter , and said that since he had laid down his kingdom he thought himself most comfortably situated here for here he was most respected by all . 
The summer after Hrorek fell sick , and died and it is said he is the only king whose bones rest in Iceland . 
Thorarin Nefiulfson was afterwards for a long time upon voyages but sometimes he was with King Olaf . 
Thorgils was the son of Are Marson , who visited America . 
Thorgils , who was still alive in the year , was noted for his kindness toward all persecuted persons . 
The summer that Thorarin went with Hrorek to Iceland , Hjalte Skeggjason went also to Iceland , and King Olaf gave him many friendly gifts with him when they parted . 
The same summer Eyvind Urarhorn went on an expedition to the west sea , and came in autumn to Ireland , to the Irish king Konofogor . 
In autumn Einar earl of Orkney and this Irish king met in Ulfreks fjord , and there was a great battle , in which Konofogor gained the victory , having many more people . 
The earl fled with a single ship and came back about autumn to Orkney , after losing most of his men and all the booty they had made . 
ENDNOTES Konofogor's Irish name was Connor . 
OLAF PREPARES FOR HIS BRIDAL JOURNEY . 
Now we begin again our story where we let it slip at King Olaf's travelling to his bridal , to receive his betrothed Ingegerd the king's daughter . 
The whole were well appointed , and equipped in ships , weapons , and clothes . 
They steered the fleet eastwards to Konungahella but when they arrived there they heard nothing of the Swedish king and none of his men had come there . 
The earl replies , that he did not know . 
OF THE SWEDISH KING'S CHILDREN . 
Their children were Emund , Astrid , Holmfrid . 
They had , besides , a son , who was born the day before St . 
When the boy was to be christened the bishop called him Jacob , which the Swedes did not like , as there never had been a Swedish king called Jacob . 
All King Olaf's children were handsome in appearance , and clever from childhood . 
The king's daughter , Astrid , was brought up in West Gautland , in the house of a worthy man called Egil . 
She was a very lovely girl her words came well into her conversation she was merry , but modest , and very generous . 
When she was grown up she was often in her father's house , and every man thought well of her . 
King Olaf was haughty and harsh in his speech . 
But no one was so bold as to ask the king , although they complained of it to Ingegerd , and besought her to find out what the king intended . 
In the meantime Ingegerd , the king's daughter , took it to heart , became melancholy and sorrowful and yet very curious to know what the king intended . 
She had much suspicion that he would not keep his word and promise to King Olaf for he appeared quite enraged whenever Olaf the Thick's name was in any way mentioned . 
OF THE SWEDISH KING OLAF'S HUNTING . 
One morning early the king rode out with his dogs and falcons , and his men around him . 
When they let slip the falcons the king's falcon killed two black cocks in one flight , and three in another . 
The dogs ran and brought the birds when they had fallen to the ground . 
They agreed in this adding , that in their opinion no king had such luck in hunting as he had . 
Then the king rode home with his followers in high spirits . 
Ingegerd , the king's daughter , was just going out of her lodging when the king came riding into the yard , and she turned round and saluted him . 
He saluted her in return , laughing produced the birds , and told her the success of his chase . 
With that their conversation broke off , and each went away . 
OLAF THE NORWAY KING'S COUNSELS . 
When this message came to King Olaf it made him both angry and sorry and for some days nobody got a word from him . 
He then held a House Thing with his men , and in it Bjorn arose , and first took the word . 
The king wished now to hear from the chiefs and other leaders of troops what course he should adopt . 
Thereafter many powerful men spoke , and all were at last agreed in dissuading from hostilities . 
All thought well of this plan . 
SIGVAT THE SKALD'S JOURNEY EASTWARDS . 
The king thought well of this plan for he oft , and with pleasure , spoke to his confidential friends about Ingegerd , the king's daughter . 
Sigvat the skald , with two companions , left Sarpsborg , and proceeded eastwards over the moors to Gautland . 
He wishes to the helmed hero Health , and long life , and a tull flow Of honour , riches . 
and success And , parting , ends his song with this . 
To see us in this cobble sailing , And all our sea skill unavailing . 
But better did it end , you see , Than any of us could foresee . 
With many a grumble , many a groan . 
A hundred miles we trudged right on And every king's man of us bore On each foot sole a bleeding sore . 
They came then through Gautland , and in the evening reached a farm house called Hof . 
The door was bolted so that they could not come in and the servants told them it was a fast day , and they could not get admittance . 
Sigvat sang Now up to Hof in haste I hie , And round the house and yard I pry . 
Doors are fast locked but yet within , Methinks , I hear some stir and din . 
I peep , with nose close to the ground . 
Below the door , but small cheer found . 
My trouble with few words was paid Tis holy time , the house folkd said . 
Heathens ! to shove me thus away ! I' the foul fiend's claws may you all lay . 
Then they came to another farm , where the good wife was standing at the door . 
and told them not to come in , for they were busy with a sacrifice to the elves . 
The ugly witch drove me away , Like scared wolf sneaking from his prey . 
When she told me that there within Was sacrifice to foul Odin . 
Another evening , they came to three bondes , all of them of the name of Olver , who drove them away . 
They went on farther that evening , and came to a fourth bonde , who was considered the most hospitable man in the country but he drove them away also . 
I almost wished that Asta's son In the Eid forest had been one When we , his men , were even put Lodging to crave in a heathen's hut . 
I knew not where the earl to find Four times driven off by men unkind , I wandered now the whole night o'er , Driven like a dog from door to door . 
Now when they came to Earl Ragnvald's the earl said they must have had a severe journey . 
Then Sigvat sang The message bearers of the king From Norway came his words to bring And truly for their master they Hard work have done before to day . 
We did not loiter on the road , But on we pushed for thy abode Thy folk , in sooth , were not so kind That we cared much to lag hehind . 
But Eid to rest safe we found , From robbers free to the eastern bound This praise to thee , great earl , is due The skald says only what is true . 
Earl Ragnvald gave Sigvat a gold arm ring , and a woman said he had not made the journey with his black eyes for nothing . 
Sigvat was long entertained kindly and well in the house of Earl Ragnvald . 
About the same time King Olaf's daughter Astrid came to Earl Ragnvald's court , and a great feast was made for her . 
Among other things talked of , Earl Ragnvald asked Sigvat if the king of Norway would not marry the king's daughter Astrid . 
If he would do that , said he , I think we need not ask the Swedish king for his consent . 
Astrid , the kings daughter , said exactly the same . 
Soon after Sigvat returns home , and comes to King Olaf at Sarpsborg a little before Yule . 
, all in row , Stripped in the field from lifeless fow . 
In truth no royal nail comes near Thy splendid hall in precious gear . 
With joyless weather , wind and raind , And pinching cold , and feet in pain With sleep , fatigue , and want oppressed , No songs had we we scarce had rest . 
Thou generous king ! with zeal and care I sought to advance thy great affair For messengers from Russian land Had come to ask Ingegerd's hand . 
When first I came the people's mind Incensed by Eirik's son I find And he refused the wish to meet , Alleging treachery and deceit . 
But I explained how it was here , For earl and king , advantage clear With thee to hold the strictest peace , And make all force and foray cease . 
A while afterwards the king asks Sigvat about various news from Gautland . 
The king listened with pleasure to this . 
Then Sigvat told him the conversation he and Astrid had had between themselves , and the king was delighted at the idea . 
The Swedish king , said he , will scarcely think that I will dare to marry a daughter of his without his consent . 
But this speech of his was not known generally . 
King Olaf and Sigvat the skald often spoke about it . 
The king inquired particularly of Sigvat what he knew about Earl Ragnvald , and if he be truly our friend , said the king . 
Of all who dwell by the East Sea So friendly no man is as he At all their Things he takes thy part , And is thy firm friend , hand and heart . 
ENDNOTES The Pantzer a complete suit of plate armour . 
When they came to Earl Ragnvald's court , they produced the tokens which Olaf himself had sent to the earl , that he might place confidence in Thord . 
Then they rode northwards to Sarpsborg , and came there at Candlemas . 
King Olaf had put all things in order in the best style . 
There were all sorts of liquors of the best that could be got , and all other preparations of the same quality . 
Many people of consequence were summoned in from their residences . 
King Olaf , on his part , should give Astrid the same bride gift that had been intended for her sister Ingegerd . 
Thereupon an eke was made to the feast , and King Olaf and Queen Astrid's wedding was drunk in great festivity . 
THE AGREEMENT BROKEN BY OLAF . 
thereafter came ambassadors from King Jarisleif in Novgorod to Svithjod , to treat more particularly about the promise given by King Olaf the preceding summer to marry his daughter Ingegerd to King Jarisleif . 
King Olaf tallied about the business with Ingegerd , and told her it was his pleasure that she should marry King Jarisleif . 
If I marry King Jarisleif , I must have as my bride gift the town and earldom of Ladoga . 
The Russian ambassadors agreed to this , on the part of their sovereign . 
This the king and the ambassadors agreed to , and gave their hands upon it in confirmation of the condition . 
And who , asked the king , is the man thou wilt take with thee as thy attendant ? That man , she replied , is my relation Earl Ragnvald . 
I shall hang him up this summer . 
Then Ingegerd begged her father to be true to the promise he had made her , and had confirmed by giving his hand upon it . 
Ingegerd then sent messengers to the earl to bring him these tidings , and to appoint a place of meeting . 
The earl immediately prepared for his journey rode up to East Gautland procured there a vessel , and , with his retinue , joined Ingegerd , and they proceeded together eastward to Russia . 
There Ingegerd was married to King Jarisleif and their children were Valdemar , Vissivald , and Holte the Bold . 
Queen Ingegerd gave Earl Ragnvald the town of Ladoga , and earldom belonging to it . 
Earl Ragnvald was there a long time , and was a celebrated man . 
His sons and Ingebjorg's were Earl Ulf and Earl Eilif . 
HISTORY OF THE LAGMAN EMUND . 
He was the most powerful man in West Gautland after the earl was gone . 
that Earl Ragnvald left Gautland the Gautland people held a Thing among themselves , and often expressed their anxiety to each other about what the Swedish king might do . 
If that fail , we can still turn to the king of Norway . 
He conversed there with the most prudent men about this difficult business and they were all unanimous on one point , that the king's treatment of them was against law and reason . 
From thence Emund went into Svithjod , and conversed with many men of consequence , who all expressed themselves in the same way . 
Emund continued his journey thus , until one day , towards evening , he arrived at Upsala , where he and his retinue took a good lodging , and stayed there all night . 
The next day Emund waited upon the king , who was just then sitting in the Thing surrounded by many people . 
Emund went before him , bent his knee , and saluted him . 
The king looked at him , saluted him , and asked him what news he brought . 
After he had got as many furs in the mountains as filled his hand sledge so full that he could scarcely drag it , he returned home from the woods . 
When Atte shot at it the arrows flew too high or too low , and the squirrel never jumped so that Atte could get a fair aim at him . 
He was so eager upon this chase that he ran the whole day after the squirrel , and yet could not get hold of it . 
It was now getting dark so he threw himself down upon the snow , as he was wont , and lay there all night in a heavy snow storm . 
Next day Atte got up to look after his sledge , but never did he find it again and so he returned home . 
And this is the only news , king , I have to tell . 
The king says , This is news of but little importance , if it be all thou hast to tell . 
Ernund replies , Lately something happened which may well be called news . 
Gaute Tofason went with five warships out of the Gaut river , and when he was lying at the Eikrey Isles there came five large Danish merchant ships there . 
Gaute gave chase with one ship , and at first came nearer to them but as the wind increased , the Danes got away . 
Then Gaute wanted to turn back but a storm came on so that he lost his ship at Hlesey , with all the goods , and the greater part of his crew . 
So but little luck had they with their greed of plunder . 
The king asks , What is thy appeal case ? Emund replies , There were two noble born men of equal birth , but unequal in property and disposition . 
They quarrelled about some land , and did each other much damage but most was done to him who was the more powerful of the two . 
This quarrel , however , was settled , and judged of at a General Thing and the judgment was , that the most powerful should pay a compensation . 
Emund took witnesses to this judgment among the most considerable of the men who were present , according to the laws which were held in the Upsala Thing . 
He then saluted the king , and went his way and other men brought their cases before the king , and he sat late in the day upon the cases of the people . 
Now when the king came to table , he asked where Lagman Emund was . 
It was answered , he was home at his lodgings . 
Then , said the king , go after him , and tell him to be my guest to day . 
Thereafter the dishes were borne in then came the musicians with harps , fiddles , and musical instruments and lastly , the cup bearers . 
The king was particularly merry , and had many great people at table with him , so that he thought little of Emund . 
In this meeting the king ordered Lagman Emund to be called before them . 
The messenger returned , and said , Sire , Lagman Emund rode away yesterday as soon as he had dined . 
They answered , It is , sire , as you say . 
The king Our case was judged at the Upsala Thing . 
But now Olaf has got Astrid and although she is a king's child , her mother was but a slave woman , and , besides , of Vindish race . 
Let us all give thanks that it has so turned out for the gods have long protected their descendants , although many now neglect this faith . 
All these brothers were rich and powerful men , of noble birth , great wisdom , and all very dear to the king . 
Then said King Olaf , What means that which Emund said about Atte the Dull ? None made any reply , but the one looked at the other . 
Speak freely , said the king . 
Then said Thorvid the Stammerer , Atte quarrel some greedy jealous deceitful dull . 
Then said the king , To whom are these words of reproach and mockery applied ? Freyvid the Deaf replied , We will speak more clearly if we have your permission . 
The king Speak freely , Freyvid , what you will . 
Freyvid took up the word , and spoke . 
The king asks , Who is the chief who dares to betray the country and me ? Freyvid replies , All Swedes desire to have the ancient laws , and their full rights . 
Look but here , sire , how many chiefs are sitting in council with you . 
Send , then those of your men in whom you have the most confidence to those who have this business on hand , and try if this uproar can be appeased . 
The king says that he will adopt this advice . 
I will , says he , that ye brothers undertake this business for I trust to you the most among my men . 
Thorvid the Stammerer said , I remain behind . 
Let Jacob , your son , go with them , for that is necessary . 
Then said Freyvid , Let us do as Thorvid says he will not leave you , and I and Arnvid must travel . 
Olaf went to his ships , and set out into the Maelar lake , and many people came to him . 
The brothers Arnvid and Freyvid rode out to Ullaraker , and had with them the king's son Jacob but they kept it a secret that he was there . 
The brothers observed that there was a great concourse and war gathering , for the bondes held the Thing night and day . 
When Freyvid observed the heat of the people , he saw in what a bad situation the king's cause was . 
Our forefathers did not need to take advice from the West Gautlanders about the government of the Swedes . 
Now we will not be so degenerate as to need Emund to give us counsel but let us , friends and relations , unite ourselves for the purpose of coming to a determination . 
All agreed to this , and thought it was well said . 
Thereafter the people joined this union which the Upland chiefs made among themselves , and Freyvid and Arnvid were chiefs of the whole assemblage . 
When Emund heard this he suspected how the matter would end , and went to both the brothers to have a conversation with them . 
King Olaf has two sons , one of whom we will choose for king , although there is a great difference between them . 
The one is noble born , and of Swedish race on both sides the other is a slave woman's son , and of Vindish race on the mother's side . 
This decision was received with loud applause , and all would have Jacob for king . 
He was then ten or twelve years old . 
After that ambassadors went between the two kings and at last they had a meeting , and came to an agreement . 
Refsithing a Thing for punishment by penalty or death for crimes and misdemeanours . 
MEETING OF RECONCILIATION BETWEEN THE KINGS , AND THEIR GAME AT DICE . 
When King Olaf heard this message , he was willing , now as formerly , to enter into the agreement , and proceeded to the appointed place . 
There the Swedish kings also came and the relations , when they met , bound themselves mutually to peace and agreement . 
Olaf the Swedish king was then remarkably mild in manner , and agreeable to talk with . 
Thorstein Frode relates of this meeting , that there was an inhabited district in Hising which had sometimes belonged to Norway , and sometimes to Gautland . 
The Swedish king threw two sixes , and said King Olaf need scarcely throw . 
Then he threw , and had sixes also . 
Now the Swedish king threw again , and had again two sixes . 
We have heard nothing else of any interest that took place at this meeting and the kings separated the dearest of friends with each other . 
OF OLAF OF NORWAY , AFTER THE MEETING . 
After the events now related Olaf returned with his people to Viken . 
He went first to Tunsberg , and remained there a short time , and then proceeded to the north of the country . 
HISTORY OF THE EARLS OF ORKNEY . 
It is related that in the days of Harald Harfager , the king of Norway , the islands of Orkney , which before had been only a resort for vikings , were settled . 
The first earl in the Orkney Islands was called Sigurd , who was a son of Eystein Giumra , and brother of Ragnvald earl of More . 
After Sigurd his son Guthorm was earl for one year . 
After him Torf Einar , a son of Ragnvald , took the earldom , and was long earl , and was a man of great power . 
Halfdan Haleg , a son of Harald Harfager , assaulted Torf Einar , and drove him from the Orkney Islands but Einar came back and killed Halfdan in the island Ronaldsha . 
Thereafter King Harald came with an army to the Orkney Islands . 
Einar fled to Scotland , and King Harald made the people of the Orkney Islands give up their udal properties , and hold them under oath from him . 
The earl paid the king sixty marks of gold and then King Harald went to plunder in Scotland , as related in the Glym Drapa . 
In their days came Eirik Blood axe from Norway , and subdued these earls . 
Arnkel and Erlend fell in a war expedition but Thorfin ruled the country long , and became an old man . 
His sons were Arnfin , Havard , Hlodver , Liot , and Skule . 
Their mother was Grelad , a daughter of Earl Dungad of Caithness . 
Her mother was Groa , a daughter of Thorstein Raud . 
In the latter days of Earl Thorfin came Eirik Blood axe's sons , who had fled from Earl Hakon out of Norway , and committed great excesses in Orkney . 
Earl Thorfin died on a bed of sickness , and his sons after him ruled over the country , and there are many stories concerning them . 
Hlodver lived the longest of them , and ruled alone over this country . 
His son was Sigurd the Thick , who took the earldom after him , and became a powerful man and a great warrior . 
King Olaf allowed the earl to ransom his life by letting himself be baptized , adopting the true faith , becoming his man , and introducing Christianity into all the Orkney Islands . 
As a hostage , King Olaf took his son , who was called Hunde or Whelp . 
Then Olaf went to Norway , and became king and Hunde was several years with King Olaf in Norway , and died there . 
After his death Earl Sigurd showed no obedience or fealty to King Olaf . 
He married a daughter of the Scottish king Malcolm , and their son was called Thorfin . 
Earl Sigurd had , besides , older sons namely , Sumarlide , Bruse , and Einar Rangmund . 
On this expedition Earl Sigurd fell in Brian's battle . 
When the news was received in Orkney , the brothers Sumarlide , Bruse , and Einar were chosen earls , and the country was divided into three parts among them . 
Thorfin Sigurdson was five years old when Earl Sigurd fell . 
ENDNOTES Hausakljufer the splitter of skulls . 
It was fought between a viking called Sigtryg and Brian king of Munster , who gained the victory , but lost his life . 
OF THE EARLS EINAR AND BRUSE . 
The brothers Einar and Bruse were very unlike in disposition . 
Bruse was a soft minded , peaceable man , sociable , eloquent , and of good understanding . 
Einar was obstinate , taciturn , and dull but ambitious , greedy of money , and withal a great warrior . 
Sumarlide , the eldest of the brothers , was in disposition like Bruse , and lived not long , but died in his bed . 
After his death Thorfin claimed his share of the Orkney Islands . 
Bruse , on the other hand , was willing , he said , to divide with him . 
I do not desire , he said , more than the third part of the land , and which of right belongs to me . 
Then Einar took possession of two parts of the country , by which he became a powerful man , surrounded by many followers . 
There was a rich and powerful man who was called Amunde , who dwelt in Hrossey at Sandvik , in Hlaupandanes . 
His son , called Thorkel , was one of the ablest men in the islands . 
Amunde was a man of the best understanding , and most respected in Orkney . 
One spring Earl Einar proclaimed a levy for an expedition , as usual . 
The bondes murmured greatly against it , and applied to Amunde with the entreaty that he would intercede with the earl for them . 
They then applied to Thorkel , who was also very loath to interfere , but promised at last to do so , in consequence of the great entreaty of the people . 
Amunde thought he had given his promise too hastily . 
Now when the earl held a Thing , Thorkel spoke on account of the people , and entreated the earl to spare the people from such heavy burdens , recounting their necessitous condition . 
The earl replies favourably , saying that he would take Thorkel's advice . 
The bondes thanked Thorkel for his assistance , and the earl set out on a viking cruise , and came back in autumn . 
The spring after , the earl made the same levy as usual , and held a Thing with the bondes . 
Then Thorkel again made a speech , in which he entreated the earl to spare the people . 
Then the Thing was closed . 
When Amunde heard what the earl and Thorkel had said at the Thing , he told Thorkel to leave the country , and he went over to Caithness to Earl Thorfin . 
Thorkel was afterwards a long time there , and brought up the earl in his youth , and was on that account called Thorkel the Fosterer and he became a very celebrated man . 
THE AGREEMENT OF THE EARLS . 
Einar was nowise inclined to diminish his possessions . 
When Thorfin found this he collected a warforce in Caithness , and proceeded to the islands . 
As soon as Earl Einar heard of this he collected people , and resolved to defend his country . 
Earl Bruse also collected men , and went out to meet them , and bring about some agreement between them . 
This agreement seemed reasonable , as Bruse had a son called Ragnvald , but Einar had no son . 
Earl Thorfin set men to rule over his land in Orkney , but he himself was generally in Caithness . 
Earl Einar was generally on viking expeditions to Ireland , Scotland , and Bretland . 
that Earl Einar marauded in Ireland , he fought in Ulfreks fjord with the Irish king Konofogor , as has been related before , and suffered there a great defeat . 
In autumn they proceeded to Norway to King Olaf , and told him Eyvind was killed . 
Earl Thorfin sent Thorkel Fosterer to the islands to gather in his scat . 
The earl encouraged Thorkel much to go east to Norway to King Olaf . 
Thereupon Thorkel made himself ready , and proceeded in autumn to Norway , and then to King Olaf , with whom he stayed the whole winter , and was in high favour . 
The king often entered into conversation with him , and he thought , what was true , that Thorkel was a high minded man , of good understanding . 
the king sent a ship west over the sea to Earl Thorfin , with the invitation to come east and visit him in Norway . 
The earl did not decline the invitation , for it was accompanied by assurances of friendship . 
Earl Thorfin went east to Norway , and came to King Olaf , from whom he received a kind reception , and stayed till late in the summer . 
When he was preparing to return westwards again , King Olaf made him a present of a large and fully rigged long ship . 
Thorkel the Fosterer joined company with the earl , who gave him the ship which he brought with him from the west . 
The king and the earl took leave of each other tenderly . 
In autumn Earl Thorfin came to Orkney , and when Earl Einar heard of it he went on board his ships with a numerous band of men . 
Earl Bruse came up to his two brothers , and endeavoured to mediate between them , and a peace was concluded and confirmed by oath . 
When the earl came to the feast he was entertained in the best manner but the earl was not cheerful . 
There was a great room , in which there were doors at each end . 
The day the earl should depart Thorkel was to accompany him to the other feast and Thorkel sent men before , who should examine the road they had to travel that day . 
The spies came back , and said to Thorkel they had discovered three ambushes . 
And we think , said they , there is deceit on foot . 
When Thorkel heard this he lengthened out his preparations for the journey , and gathered people about him . 
The earl told him to get ready , as it was time to be on horseback . 
Thorkel answered , that he had many things to put in order first , and went out and in frequently . 
There was a fire upon the floor . 
At last he went in at one door , followed by an Iceland man from Eastfjord , called Halvard , who locked the door after him . 
Thorkel went in between the fire and the place where the earl was sitting . 
The earl asked , Art thou ready at last , Thorkel ? Thorkel answers , Now I am ready and struck the earl upon the head so that he fell upon the floor . 
Thorkel and his two comrades then went in all haste out of the other door opposite to that by which they went in , and Thorkel's men were standing without fully armed . 
The earl's men now went in , and took hold of the earl . 
The most who were within were unarmed , and they were partly Thorkel's good friends and to this may be added , that fate had decreed a longer life to Thorkel . 
When Thorkel came out he had not fewer men with him than the earl's troop . 
Thorkel went to his ship , and the earl's men went their way . 
The same day Thorkel sailed out eastwards into the sea . 
This happened after winter but he came safely to Norway , went as fast as he could to Olaf , and was well received by him . 
The king expressed his satisfaction at this deed , and Thorkel was with him all winter . 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN KING OLAF AND EARL BRUSE . 
After Earl Einar's fall Bruse took the part of the country which he had possessed for it was known to many men on what conditions Einar and Bruse had entered into a partnership . 
Although Thorfin thought it would be more just that each of them had half of the islands , Bruse retained the two thirds of the country that winter . 
In spring , however , Thorfin produced his claim , and demanded the half of the country but Bruse would not consent . 
With this their meeting ended . 
But Bruse saw that he had no strength to contend against Thorfin , because Thorfin had both a greater dominion and also could have aid from his mother's brother , the Scottish king . 
He resolved , therefore , to go out of the country and he went eastward to King Olaf , and had with him his son Ragnvald , then ten years old . 
When the earl came to the king he was well received . 
If thou wilt not accept of these terms , then will I win back my udal property there in the West , as our forefathers and relations of old possessed it . 
Although the earl saw that there was much to be considered for and against it he chose the condition to deliver himself and his dominion into the king's power . 
Thereupon the king took the earl's power , and the government over all the earl's lands , and the earl became his vassal under oath of fealty . 
THE EARL'S AGREEMENT TO THE KING'S TERMS . 
The earl begged of the king some time to consider the matter . 
The king did so , and gave the earl time to take the counsel of his friends on the choosing one or other of these conditions . 
From such hints the earl saw there was no other way than to let the king have his own will . 
EARL THORFIN'S DEPARTURE , AND RECONCILIATION WITH THORKEL . 
When the king had carefully considered the whole matter by himself , he ordered the signal to sound for a General Thing , to which he called in the earls . 
Then said the king , I will now make known to the public our agreement with the Orkney earls . 
The earls agreed to this , as to everything else that the king proposed . 
Thorkel came forward , and surrendered to the king's judgment of the case , and the Thing concluded . 
Thereafter Earl Thorfin asked the king's leave to depart , and as soon as he obtained it made ready for sea with all speed . 
The earl asked why he did so . 
We are , you know , reconciled men , according to the king's decision so stand up , Thorkel . 
Thorkel replied , The agreement which the king made as between me and Bruse stands good but what regards the agreement with thee thou alone must determine . 
Thorkel replies , This shall be entirely at thy pleasure , earl , as well as everything else in my power . 
Then Thorkel went on , and solemnly ratified this agreement . 
The earl said he would talk afterwards about the mulct of money , but took Thorkel's oath upon the conditions . 
Thorkel immediately made ready to accompany the earl on his voyage . 
The earl set off as soon as all was ready , and never again were King Olaf and Thorfin together . 
Earl Bruse remained behind , and took his time to get ready . 
I see well enough that with two parts of the country and my help , thou wilt be able to defend what is thy own against thy brother Thorfin . 
He was long with King Olaf . 
OF THE EARLS THORFIN AND BRUSE . 
The brothers Thorfin and Bruse came west to Orkney and Bruse took the two parts of the country under his rule , and Thorfin the third part . 
Thorfin was usually in Caithness and elsewhere in Scotland but placed men of his own over the islands . 
Bruse often complained of his brother Thorfin , that he made no equipment of war for the defence of Orkney and Shetland , yet levied his share of the scat and duties . 
Arnor , the earls' skald , tells of his possessions From Thurso skerry to Dublin , All people hold with good Thorfin All people love his sway , And the generous chief obey . 
Thorfin was a very great warrior . 
He came to the earldom at five years of age , ruled more than sixty years , and died in his bed about the last days of Harald Sigurdson . 
But Bruse died in the days of Canute the Great , a short time after the fall of Saint Olaf . 
He had then been king in Norway five years . 
In harvest time he prepared to take his winter residence at Nidaros , and he remained all winter there . 
Thorkel the Fosterer , Amunde's son , as before related , was all that winter with him . 
There was a man by name Harek , a son of Eyvind Skaldaspiller , who dwelt in an island called Thjotta in Halogaland . 
Eyvind had not been a rich man , but was of high family and high mind . 
He soon became very rich for he was a very prudent man , and very successful . 
He had long been greatly respected by the chiefs and being related to the kings of Norway , had been raised by them to high dignities . 
Harek's father's mother Gunhild was a daughter of Earl Halfdan , and Ingebjorg , Harald Harfager's daughter . 
At the time the circumstance happened which we are going to relate he was somewhat advanced in years . 
He had not himself been to wait on King Olaf , but messages had passed between them , and all was on the most friendly footing . 
that Olaf was in Nidaros , messengers passed between the king and Harek of Thjotta . 
Then the king made it known that he intended going north to Halogaland , and as far north as the land's end but the people of Halogaland expected no good from this expedition . 
OF THE PEOPLE OF HALOGALAND . 
, and had with him about men . 
He inflicted severe punishments on many men , great as well as small , and left no district until the people had consented to adopt the holy faith . 
The most of the men of power and of the great bondes made feasts for the king , and so he proceeded all the way north to Halogaland . 
Harek of Thjotta also made a feast for the king , at which there was a great multitude of guests , and the feast was very splendid . 
Harek was made lenderman , and got the same privileges he had enjoyed under the former chiefs of the country . 
There was a man called Grankel , or Granketil , who was a rich bonde , and at this time rather advanced in age . 
In his youth he had been on viking cruises , and had been a powerful fighter for he possessed great readiness in all sorts of bodily exercises . 
His son Asmund was equal to his father in all these , and in some , indeed , he excelled him . 
There were many who said that with respect to comeliness , strength , and bodily expertness , he might be considered the third remarkably distinguished for these that Norway had ever produced . 
The first was Hakon Athelstan's foster son the second , Olaf Trygvason . 
Grankel invited King Olaf to a feast , which was very magnificent and at parting Grankel presented the king with many honourable gifts and tokens of friendship . 
The king remained in Halogaland the greater part of the summer , went to all the Things , and baptized all the people . 
Thorer Hund dwelt at that time in the island Bjarkey . 
He was the most powerful man in the North , and also became one of Olaf's lendermen . 
Many sons of great bondes resolved also to follow King Olaf from Halogaland . 
Towards the end of summer King Olaf left the North , and sailed back to Throndhjem , and landed at Nidaros , where he passed the winter . 
It was then that Thorkel the Fosterer came from the West from Orkney , after killing Einar Rangmumd , as before related . 
OF THE SACRIFICES OF THE THRONDHJEM PEOPLE . 
It was also reported that all men saw clearly that the gods were offended at the Halogaland people turning Christian . 
Now when the king heard this news he sent men into the Throndhjem country , and ordered several bondes , whose names he gave , to appear before him . 
There was a man called Olver of Eggja , so called after his farm on which he lived . 
He was powerful , of great family , and the head man of those who on account of the bondes appeared before the king . 
Olver was a man of clever speech , and bold in what he said , and defended the bondes against such accusations . 
In the end , the king said the people of the interior of Thorndhjem must themselves give the best testimony to their being in the right faith . 
The bondes got leave to return home , and set off as soon as they were ready . 
OF THE SACRIFICES BY THE PEOPLE OF THE INTERIOR OF THE THRONDHJEM DISTRICT . 
The bondes held a council among themselves about this message and all those who had been upon the same occasion in the beginning of winter were now very unwilling to make the journey . 
Olver , however , at the desire of all the bondes , allowed himself to be persuaded . 
When he came to the town he went immediately before the king , and they talked together . 
The king made the same accusation against the bondes , that they had held a mid winter sacrifice . 
Olver replies , that this accusation against the bondes was false . 
The king said little in reply , but looked angry , as he thought he knew the truth of the matter better than it was now represented . 
He ordered the bondes to return home . 
But , however , that may be , do not try such things again . 
The bondes returned home , and told the result of their journey , and that the king was altogether enraged . 
MURDER OF OLVER OF EGGJA . 
the king held a feast , to which he had invited many of the townspeople as well as bondes . 
and rigging to be set up , and to be laid ready for sea at the piers . 
Immediately after Easter he sent men into Veradal . 
Thoralde did not decline the journey , but went immediately to the town with the messenger . 
The king replies , Say only what is true on what I ask thee , and I will take care that no evil befall thee . 
It is their custom to offer sacrifice in autumn for a good winter , a second at mid winter , and a third in summer . 
In this the people of Eyna , Sparby , Veradal , and Skaun partake . 
He appointed men to steer the ships , and leaders for the people , and ordered how the people should be divided among the vessels . 
All was got ready in haste , and with five ships and men he steered up the fjord . 
The wind was favourable , the ships sailed briskly before it , and nobody could have thought that the king would be so soon there . 
The king came in the night time to Maerin , and immediately surrounded the house with a ring of armed men . 
Olver was taken , and the king ordered him to be put to death , and many other men besides . 
The king also let all the bondes he thought had the greatest part in the business be plundered by his men at arms . 
Some were taken prisoners and laid in irons , some ran away , and many were robbed of their goods . 
He thus brought the whole people back to the right faith , gave them teachers , and built and consecrated churches . 
The king then returned to Nidaros . 
OF THE SONS OF ARNE . 
There was a man called Arne Arnmodson , who was married to Thora , Thorstein Galge's daughter . 
Their children were Kalf , Fin , Thorberg , Amunde , Kolbjorn , Arnbjorn , and Arne . 
Their daughter , who was called Ragnhild , was married to Harek of Thjotta . 
Arne was a lenderman , powerful , and of ability , and a great friend of King Olaf . 
At that time his sons Kalf and Fin were with the king , and in great favour . 
She and Olver had two sons , who were still in infancy . 
The king at the same time made him his lenderman , and gave him an office in the interior of the Throndhjem country . 
Kalf became a great chief , and was a man of very great understanding . 
KING OLAF'S JOURNEY TO THE UPLANDS . 
in Norway the earls Thorfin and Bruse came to him , as before related , in the summer , from Orkney , and he became master of their land . 
The same summer Olaf went to North and South More , and in autumn to Raumsdal . 
He left his ships there , and came to the Uplands , and to Lesjar . 
After they received Christianity , the king took their sons in his hands as hostages for their fidelity . 
The king stayed several nights at a farm in Lesjar called Boar , where he placed priests . 
Then he proceeded over Orkadal and Lorodal , and came down from the Uplands at a place called Stafabrekka . 
A pity it is , said the king , so beautiful a hamlet should be burnt . 
And he proceeded down the valley with his people , and was all night on a farm called Nes . 
The king took his lodging in a loft , where he slept himself and it stands to the present day , without anything in it having been altered since . 
They came before the king , and submitted to his pleasure but some fled south down the valley . 
THE STORY OF DALE GUDBRAND . 
There was a man called Dale Gudbrand , who was like a king in the valley , but was only herse in title . 
Sigvat the skald compared him for wealth and landed property to Erling Skjalgson . 
These two great bondes , I would say , Equal each other every way . 
He lies who says that he can find One by the other left behind . 
Gudbrand had a son , who is here spoken of . 
They chose out men to go northwards to Breida , to watch his movements . 
The leader of this band was Gudbrand's son , eighteen years of age , and with him were many other men of importance . 
When they came to a farm called Hof they heard of the king and they remained three nights there . 
People streamed to them from all parts , from Lesjar , Loar , and Vagar , who did not wish to receive Christianity . 
The king and Bishop Sigurd fixed teachers in Loaf and in Vagar . 
The bondes who were in Breida heard also of the king's arrival , and prepared for battle . 
Then the king drew up his troops , rode himself at the head of them , and began a speech to the bondes , in which he invited them to adopt Christianity . 
They replied , We shall give thee something else to do to day than to be mocking us and raised a general shout , striking also upon their shields with their weapons . 
Then the king's men ran forward and threw their spears but the bondes turned round instantly and fled , so that only few men remained behind . 
Gudbrand's son was taken prisoner but the king gave him his life , and took him with him . 
The king was four days here . 
Then the king said to Gudbrand's son , Go home now to thy father , and tell him I expect to be with him soon . 
I was taken prisoner , said he , but the king gave me my life and liberty , and told me to say to thee that he will soon be here . 
And now we have not men of the force we raised against him therefore I advise thee , father , not to give battle to that man . 
Says Gudbrand , It is easy to see that all courage has left thee , and it was an unlucky hour ye went out to the field . 
Thou with all thy people wilt fall wolves will drag thee , and all thine , away ravens wilt tear thee in stripes . 
At this dreadful vision he was much afraid , and tells it to Thord Istermage , who was chief over the valley . 
He replies , The very same vision came to me . 
Gudbrand then said to his son , Go thou , and twelve men with thee , to the king who gave thee thy life . 
The king was content and they bound themselves by faith and law mutually to hold the peace so long as the Thing lasted . 
After this was settled the men returned to Gudbrand and Thord , and told them there was made a firm agreement for a truce . 
On that day there fell a heavy rain . 
Thereupon the king sat down , and Gudbrand replies , We know nothing of him whom thou speakest about . 
But since thou sayest thy God is so great , let him make it so that to morrow we have a cloudy day but without rain , and then let us meet again . 
The king accordingly returned home to his lodging , taking Gudbrand's son as a hostage but he gave them a man as hostage in exchange . 
In the evening the king asked Gudbrand's son what like their god was . 
Neither gold nor silver are wanting about him , and every day he receives four cakes of bread , besides meat . 
They then went to bed , but the king watched all night in prayer . 
When day dawned the king went to mass , then to table , and from thence to the Thing . 
The weather was such as Gudbrand desired . 
Now the bishop stood up in his choir robes , with bishop's coif upon his head , and bishop's staff in his hands . 
He spoke to the bondes of the true faith , told the many wonderful acts of God , and concluded his speech well . 
And they separated for the day . 
, who came from a family in the Fjord district . 
Usually he was so equipped that he was girt with a sword , and besides carried a great stake , otherwise called a club , in his hands . 
Now the king was in prayer all the night , beseeching God of His goodness and mercy to release him from evil . 
When mass was ended , and morning was grey , the king went to the Thing . 
When he came there some bondes had already arrived , and they saw a great crowd coming along , and bearing among them a huge man's image glancing with gold and silver . 
When the bondes who were at the Thing saw it they started up , and bowed themselves down before the ugly idol . 
Thereupon it was set down upon the Thing field and on the one side of it sat the bondes , and on the other the king and his people . 
Throw away now all your opposition , and believe in the god who has all your fate in his hands . 
The king then stood up and spoke . 
Much hast thou talked to us this morning , and greatly hast thou wondered that thou canst not see our God but we expect that he will soon come to us . 
The sun was rising , and all turned to look . 
The bondes were so terrified that some fled to their ships but when they sprang out upon them they filled with water , and could not get away . 
Others ran to their horses , but could not find them . 
The king then ordered the bondes to be called together , saying he wanted to speak with them on which the bondes came back , and the Thing was again seated . 
The king rose up and said , I do not understand what your noise and running mean . 
Ye see yourselves what your god can do , the idol ye adorned with gold and silver , and brought meat and provisions to . 
Take now your gold and ornaments that are lying strewed about on the grass , and give them to your wives and daughters but never hang them hereafter upon stock or stone . 
Then Dale Gudbrand stood up and said , We have sustained great damage upon our god but since he will not help us , we will believe in the God thou believest in . 
The bishop baptized Gudbrand and his son . 
King Olaf and Bishop Sigurd left behind them teachers , and they who met as enemies parted as friends and Gudbrand built a church in the valley . 
He then went to Hadaland and Thoten , improving the customs of the people , and persisting until all the country was baptized . 
He then went to Ringerike , where also all people went over to Christianity . 
The people of Raumarike then heard that Olaf intended coming to them , and they gathered a great force . 
They said among themselves that the journey Olaf had made among them the last time was not to be forgotten , and he should never proceed so again . 
The king , notwithstanding , prepared for the journey . 
He then went east to Soleys , and baptized that neighbourhood . 
The skald Ottar Black came to him there , and begged to be received among his men . 
, and Onund , the son of Olaf , was now the sole king over all Sweden . 
King Olaf returned , when the winter was far advanced , to Raumarike . 
There he assembled a numerous Thing , at a place where the Eidsvold Things have since been held . 
As spring was advancing , he rigged his ships , and went by sea to Tunsberg . 
He remained there during the spring , and the time the town was most frequented , and goods from other countries were brought to the town for sale . 
There had been a good year in Viken , and tolerable as far north as Stad but it was a very dear time in all the country north of there . 
RECONCILIATION OF THE KING AND EINAR . 
The message went round all the districts but the king remained in Viken all summer , and went east to the boundary of the country . 
Einar Tambaskelfer had been with the Swedish king Olaf since the death of his relation Earl Svein , and had , as the khag's man , received great fiefs from him . 
Now that the king was dead , Einar had a great desire to come into friendship agreement with Olaf and the same spring messages passed between them about it . 
Thereupon Einar took his way north but the king remained behind in Viken , and remained long in Sarpsborg in autumn , and during the first part of winter . 
RECONCILIATION OF THE KING AND ERLING . 
There was a man called Aslak Fitiaskalle , who was powerful and of high birth . 
Erling's father Skjalg , and Aslak's father Askel , were brother's sons . 
At last the strife went so far that Aslak could not keep his place , but hastened to King Olaf , and told him the circumstances between him and Erling . 
The king told Aslak to remain with him until he should meet Erling and sent a message to Erling that he should come to him in spring at Tunsberg . 
Erling replies to this , I will answer at once . 
Then Aslak returned to his dominions , and the two were in some sort reconciled . 
Erling returned home also to his domains , and followed his own way of ruling them . 
HERE BEGINS THE STORY OF ASBJORN SELSBANE . 
There was a man named Sigurd Thoreson , a brother of Thorer Hund of Bjarkey Island . 
Sigurd was married to Sigrid Skjalg's daughter , a sister of Erling . 
Their son , called Asbjorn , became as he grew up a very able man . 
Sigurd dwelt at Omd in Thrandarnes , and was a very rich and respected man . 
He had not gone into the king's service and Thorer in so far had attained higher dignity than his brother , that he was the king's lenderman . 
But at home , on his farm , Sigurd stood in no respect behind his brother in splendour and magnificence . 
As long as heathenism prevailed , Sigurd usually had three sacrifices every year one on winter night's eve , one on mid winter's eve , and the third in summer . 
He continued this fashion as long as he lived . 
Sigurd died on a bed of sickness when Asbjorn was eighteen years old . 
He was the only heir of his father , and he followed his father's custom of holding three festivals every year . 
That Asbjorn would not consent to , but went round in harvest among his friends , buying corn where he could get it , and some he received in presents . 
He thus kept his feasts this winter also but the spring after people got but little seed into the ground , for they had to buy the seed corn . 
Then Sigurd spoke of diminishing the number of their house servants . 
That Asbjorn would not consent to , but held by the old fashion of the house in all things . 
The ship was good , all that belonged to her was of the best , and in the sails were stripes of cloth of various colours . 
Asbjorn made himself ready for a voyage , and put to sea with twenty men . 
He was besides quick in speech , straightforward , and free in conversation . 
Asbjorn named his own and his father's name . 
Thorer asks where the voyage was intended for , and what was the errand . 
Asbjorn replies , that he wanted to buy corn and malt saying , as was true , that it was a very dear time north in the country . 
Sail back again , Halogalander , for that will be thy safest course . 
Thorer How near is thy relationship to Erling ? Asbjorn My mother is his sister . 
Thorer It may be that I have spoken heedlessly , if so be that thou art sister's son of Erling . 
Thereupon Asbjorn and his crew struck their tents , and turned the ship to sea . 
A good voyage , and come here again on your way back . 
Asbjorn promised to do so , sailed away , and came in the evening to Jadar . 
Asbjorn went on shore with ten men the other ten men watched the ship . 
Asbjorn concealed nothing of his business from him and Erling said it happened unfortunately that the king had just forbid the sale of corn . 
And I know no man here . 
says he , who has courage to break the king's order , and I find it difficult to keep well with the king , so many are trying to break our friendship . 
Asbjorn replies , It is late before we learn the truth . 
Let us now drink , my friend , and we shall see tomorrow what can be done in thy business . 
They did so , and were very merry all the evening . 
The following day Erling and Asbjorn talked over the matter again , and Erling said . 
I have found out a way for you to purchase corn , Asbjorn . 
It is the same thing to you whoever is the seller . 
He answered that he did not care of whom he bought the corn , if he got a good right to his purchase . 
It appears to me probable that my slaves have quite as much corn as you require to buy and they are not subject to law , or land regulation , like other men . 
Asbjorn agreed to the proposal . 
When he was ready for sea Erling followed him on the road , made him presents of friendship , and they took a kind farewell of each other . 
Asbjorn got a good breeze , landed in the evening at Karmtsund , near to Augvaldsnes , and remained there for the night . 
Thorer Sel had heard of Asbjorn's voyage , and also that his vessel was deeply laden . 
Asbjorn saluted Thorer , and Thorer asked what kind of goods Asbjorn had in the vessel . 
He replied , Corn and malt . 
Thorer went on scolding in this way , and when he was silent Asbjorn said that Erling's slaves had owned the corn . 
Thorer replied hastily , that he did not regard Erling's tricks . 
Asbjorn saw that he had not men enough to resist Thorer therefore he and his people landed , and Thorer took the whole cargo out of the vessel . 
When the vessel was discharged Thorer went through the ship , and observed . 
Ye Halogalanders have good sails take the old sail of our vessel and give it them it is good enough for those who are sailing in a light vessel . 
Thus the sails were exchanged . 
When this was done Asbjorn and his comrades sailed away north along the coast , and did not stop until they reached home early in whiter . 
This expedition was talked of far and wide , and Asbjorn had no trouble that winter in making feasts at home . 
Thorer scoffed much at Asbjorn's voyage . 
I don't know if he thinks there may be a Thorer Sel in his way upon every holm . 
, he had the vessel put in the water , brought out all his furniture , and rigged her out . 
He then summoned to him his friends and people , so that he had nearly ninety men all well armed . 
When he was ready for sea , and got a wind , he sailed south along the coast , but as the wind did not suit , they advanced but slowly . 
When they came farther south they steered outside the rocks , without the usual ships' channel , keeping to sea as much as it was possible to do so . 
, when , about evening , they came on the outside of Karmt Island . 
This island is so shaped that it is very long , but not broad at its widest part and without it lies the usual ships' channel . 
It is thickly inhabited but where the island is exposed to the ocean great tracts of it are uncultivated . 
Asbjorn and his men landed at a place in the island that was uninhabited . 
After they had set up their ship tents Asbjorn said , Now ye must remain here and wait for me . 
I will go on land in the isle , and spy what news there may be which we know nothing of . 
Asbjorn had on mean clothes , a broadbrimmed hat , a fork in his hand , but had girt on his sword under his clothes . 
This seemed to him extraordinary and therefore he went up quietly to a house close by , in which servants were cooking meat . 
From their conversation he discovered immediately that the king Olaf had come there to a feast , and that he had just sat down to table . 
Asbjorn turned then to the feasting room , and when he came into the ante room one was going in and another coming out but nobody took notice of him . 
The hall door was open , and he saw that Thorer Sel stood before the table of the high seat . 
When Asbjorn heard this he suddenly drew his sword , rushed into the hall , and cut at Thorer . 
The king ordered him to be seized and taken out . 
They laid hands on Asbjorn , and took him from the hall . 
The table furniture and table cloths were removed , and also Thorer's corpse , and all the blood wiped up . 
The king was enraged to the highest but remained quiet in speech , as he always was when in anger . 
OF SKJALG , THE SON OF ERLING SKJALGSON . 
Skjalg Erlingson stood up , went before the king , and said , Now may it go , as it often does , that every case will admit of alleviation . 
I will pay thee the mulct for the bloodshed on account of this man , so that he may retain life and limbs . 
All the rest determine and do , king , according to thy pleasure . 
Then Skjalg turned round , and went out of the hall . 
Twelve men who had come with Skjalg all followed him , and many others went out with him . 
Skjalg said to Thorarin Nefiulfson , If thou wilt have me for a friend , take care that this man be not killed before Sunday . 
They went up instantly to the house , and to the loft in which Erling slept . 
Skjalg rushed so hard against the door that it burst asunder at the nails . 
Erling and the others who were within started up . 
He was in one spring upon his legs , grasped his shield and sword , and rushed to the door , demanding who was there . 
Skjalg named himself , and begs him to open the door . 
Erling replies , It was most likely to be thee who hast behaved so foolishly or is there any one who is pursuing thee ? Thereupon the door was unlocked . 
The father and son then had a conversation together , and Skjalg related the whole circumstances of Thorer Sel's murder . 
King Olaf took his seat again when everything in the hall was put in order , and was enraged beyond measure . 
He asked how it was with the murderer . 
He was answered , that he was sitting out upon the doorstep under guard . 
Then Asbjorn was laid in chains , and locked up in a house for the night . 
The day after the king heard the morning mass , and then went to the Thing , where he sat till high mass . 
It is not long till tomorrow , and that is a working day . 
Then the king went away . 
Asbjorn replies , that Thorarin need not be afraid of him . 
Thorarin sat a long while with him during the day , and slept there all night . 
The king sat there long in the day , and it was late before the people went to high mass . 
Thereafter the king went to table . 
When he had got meat he sat drinking for a while , so that the tables were not removed . 
When the king had drunk as much as he wished the tables were removed . 
Then said the king , that it was now time for the slaves to go to the murderer and put him to death . 
In the same moment the bell rang in the Sabbath . 
Then Thorarin went before the king , and said , The Sabbath peace this man must have , although he has done evil . 
The king said , Do thou take care , Thorarin , that he do not escape . 
The king then went to the church , and attended the vesper service , and Thorarin sat the whole day with Asbjorn . 
On Sunday the bishop visited Asbjorn , confessed him , and gave him orders to hear high mass . 
Thorarin then went to the king , and asked him to appoint men to guard the murderer . 
I will now , he said , be free of this charge . 
The king thanked him for his care , and ordered men to watch over Asbjorn , who was again laid in chains . 
ERLING'S RECONCILIATION WITH KING OLAF . 
A great multitude of people accordingly came together . 
They got ready with all speed , rigged their ships , and when they reckoned upon their force they found they had nearly men . 
With this war force they set off , and came on Sunday to Augvaldsnes on Karmt Island . 
They went straight up to the house with all the men , and arrived just as the Scripture lesson was read . 
They went directly to the church , took Asbjorn , and broke off his chains . 
Erling and his sons drew up their men on each side of the path which led from the church to the hall , and Erling with his sons stood next to the hall . 
The king saluted him in return , and prayed God to help him . 
I think thou hast drawn together these forces because thou are determined to settle what is between us . 
Erling replies , Thou only , king , shalt determine , and determine so that we shall be reconciled . 
Erling replies , Thou hast no occasion to remind me how often I have come to meet thee with fewer men than thou hadst . 
Erling was then as red as blood in the face . 
The king replies , You will determine . 
Erling gave a surety to the king on his part , which he accepted . 
Thereupon Asbjorn received his life and safety , and delivered himself into the king's power , and kissed his hand . 
Erling then withdrew with his forces , without exchanging salutation with the king and the king went into the hall , followed by Asbjorn . 
Now I will that thou shalt undertake the office of bailiff which Thorer Sel had , and manage my estate here in Augvaldsnes . 
Asbjorn replies , that it should be according to the king's will but I must first go home to my farm , and put things in order there . 
The king was satisfied with this , and proceeded to another guest quarter . 
Asbjorn made himself ready with his comrades , who all kept themselves concealed in a quiet creek during the time Asbjorn was away from them . 
They had had their spies out to learn how it went with him , and would not depart without having some certain news of him . 
OF THORER HUND AND ASBJORN SELSBANE . 
got home to his farm . 
After this exploit he was always called Asbjorn Selsbane . 
Asbjorn told everything as it had taken place . 
Then said Thorer , Thou thinkest that thou hast well rubbed out the disgrace of having been plundered in last harvest . 
I think so , replies Asbjorn and what is thy opinion , cousin ? That I will soon tell thee , said Thorer . 
Show that thou art manly enough to sit here on thy own property , and we thy relations shall so support thee that thou wilt never more come into such trouble . 
And he did so , and sat quietly at home on his farm . 
KING OLAF BAPTIZES IN VORS AND VALDERS . 
After King Olaf and Erling Skjalgson had this meeting at Augvaldsnes , new differences arose between them , and increased so much that they ended in perfect enmity . 
the king proceeded to guest quarters in Hordaland , and went up also to Vors , because he heard there was but little of the true faith among the people there . 
He held a Thing with the bondes at a place called Vang , and a number of bondes came to it fully armed . 
The king ordered them to adopt Christianity but they challenged him to battle , and it proceeded so far that the men were drawn up on both sides . 
And it is a saying among the people that the most kings since that time have avoided it . 
when autumn approached he turned in towards the Fjord district , and went from thence to Valders , where the people were still heathen . 
The king hastened up to the lake in Valders , came unexpectedly on the bondes , seized their vessels , and went on board of them with all his men . 
He then sent out message tokens , and appointed a Thing so near the lake that he could use the vessels if he found he required them . 
It was soon found by the conversation of the bondes that they had many quarrels among themselves , although they had all joined in speaking against Christianity . 
The day after the king's men rowed from one point of land to another , and over all the king ordered the habitations to be set on fire . 
As soon as there came a dispersion among the crowd , the one slipped away after the other , until the whole multitude was dissolved . 
Then the king rowed across the lake again , burning also on that side of the country . 
Now came the bondes to him begging for mercy , and offering to submit to him . 
He gave every man who came to him peace if he desired it , and restored to him his goods and nobody refused to adopt Christianity . 
The king then had the people christened , and took hostages from the bondes . 
He ordered churches to be built and consecrated , and placed teachers in them . 
He remained a long time here in autumn , and had his ships drawn across the neck of land between the two lakes . 
The king did not go far from the sides of the lakes into the country , for he did not much trust the bondes . 
When the king thought that frost might be expected , he went further up the country , and came to Thoten . 
It was , I think , in Olaf's race The Upland people to oppress . 
This was the tenth year of his reign . 
The summer before Einar Tambaskelfer left the country , and went westward to England . 
There he met his relative Earl Hakon , and stayed some time with him . 
He then visited King Canute , from whom he received great presents . 
Einar then went south all the way to Rome , and came back the following summer , and returned to his house and land . 
King Olaf and Einar did not meet this time . 
THE BIRTH OF KING MAGNUS . 
There was a girl whose name was Alfhild , and who was usually called the king's slave woman , although she was of good descent . 
She was a remarkably handsome girl , and lived in King Olaf's court . 
It was reported this spring that Alfhild was with child , and the king's confidential friends knew that he was father of the child . 
It happened one night that Alfhild was taken ill , and only few people were at hand namely , some women , priests , Sigvat the skald , and a few others . 
Alfhild was so ill that she was nearly dead and when she was delivered of a man child , it was some time before they could discover whether the child was in life . 
But when the infant drew breath , although very weak , the priest told Sigvat to hasten to the king , and tell him of the event . 
He replies , I dare not on any account waken the king for he has forbid that any man should break his sleep until he awakens of himself . 
The priest replies , It is of necessity that this child be immediately baptized , for it appears to me there is but little life in it . 
They did so and the child was baptized , and got the name of Magnus . 
The next morning , when the king awoke and had dressed himself , the circumstance was told him . 
He ordered Sigvat to be called , and said . 
The king What meanest thou ? Sigvat The child was near death , and must have been the devil's if it had died as a heathen , and now it is God's . 
And I knew besides that if thou shouldst be so angry on this account that it affected my life , I would be God's also . 
Then said the king , Thou art a very lucky man , Sigvat but it is not wonderful that luck should accompany understanding . 
It is only wonderful how it sometimes happens that luck attends ignorant men , and that foolish counsel turns out lucky . 
The king was overjoyed at the circumstance . 
The boy grew up , and gave good promise as he advanced in age . 
THE MURDER OF ASBJORN SELSBANE . 
Asmund had a ship manned with nearly thirty well armed men . 
When Asmund came north he met Harek , and told him what the king had determined with regard to the district , and produced to him the tokens of the king's full powers . 
But although it was evident that it was against Harek's inclination , he allowed Asmund to take the sheriffdom according to the king's order . 
Gunstein , the eldest of the brothers , was a good husbandman . 
Karle was a handsome man in appearance , and splendid in his dress and both were , in many respects , expert in all feats . 
Asmund was well received by them , remained with them a while , and collected such revenues of his sheriffdom as he could get . 
Asmund and his retinue proceeded on their way southwards along the coast with a contrary wind , but there was little of it . 
They saw some of the fleet for Vagar sailing towards them and they privately inquired of them about Asbjorn , and were told he was upon the way coming from the south . 
Asmund and Karle were bedfellows , and excellent friends . 
One day , as Asmund and his people were rowing through a sound , a ship of burden came sailing towards them . 
The ship was easily known , having high bulwarks , was painted with white and red colours , and coloured cloth was woven in the sail . 
Asmund replies , Be so good , comrade , and tell me which is he when thou seest him . 
When the ships came alongside of each other , That is Asbjorn , said Karle the man sitting at the helm in a blue cloak . 
Then each vessel sailed on its course , and Asbjorn's body was carried north to Thrandarnes . 
Then Sigrid sent a message to Bjarkey Isle to Thorer Hund , who came to her while they were , in the usual way , dressing the corpse of Asbjorn . 
Here is a gift I give thee , which I expect thou wilt use . 
Thereupon she turned about , and went her way . 
Thorer was so enraged at her words that he could not speak . 
It was a feathered spear not large , but the handle was gold mounted . 
Now Thorer rowed away with his people , and went home to Bjarkey Isle . 
Karle became one of the king's court men , and the friendship continued between him and Asmund . 
They did not keep secret the words that had passed between Asmund and Karle before Asbjorn was killed for they even told them to the king . 
But then it happened , according to the proverb , that every one has a friend in the midst of his enemies . 
There were some present who took notice of the words , and they reached Thorer Hund's ears . 
was advanced King Olaf rigged out his ships , and sailed southwards in summer along the land . 
He had also , as before related , brought the Orkney Islands under his power , and by messages had made many friends in Iceland , Greenland , and the Farey Islands . 
This was after the Iceland people had altered their laws , and introduced Christianity , according to the word King Olaf had sent them . 
King Olaf had sent many friendly presents to chief people in Iceland and they in return sent him such things as they had which they thought most acceptable . 
Under this show of friendship which the king gave Iceland were concealed many things which afterwards appeared . 
KING OLAF'S MESSAGE TO ICELAND , AND THE COUNSELS OF THE ICELANDERS . 
sent Thorarin Nefiulfson to Iceland on his errands and Thorarin went out of Throndhjem fjord along with the king , and followed him south to More . 
From thence Thorarin went out to sea , and got such a favourable breeze that after four days sail he landed at the Westman Isles , in Iceland . 
He proceeded immediately to the Althing , and came just as the people were upon the Lawhillock , to which he repaired . 
The people replied in a friendly way , that they would gladly be the king's friends , if he would be a friend of the people of their country . 
He sends this message particularly to Gudmund of Modruvellir to support this matter , because he understands that Gudmund has most influence in that quarter . 
Gudmund replies , My inclination is greatly for King Olaf's friendship , and that I consider much more useful than the out rock he desires . 
But the king has not heard rightly if he think I have more power in this matter than any other , for the island is a common . 
We , however , who have the most use of the isle , will hold a meeting among ourselves about it . 
Then the people went to their tent houses and the Northland people had a meeting among themselves , and talked over the business , and every one spoke according to his judgment . 
Gudmund supported the matter , and many others formed their opinions by his . 
Then some asked why his brother Einar did not speak on the subject . 
We think he has the clearest insight into most things . 
THE ANSWER OF THE ICELANDERS . 
The chiefs now weighed the matter among themselves , and each gave his own opinion about the journey . 
Gudmund and Thorkel Eyjolfson insisted much that they should follow King Olaf's invitation , and called it a journey of honour . 
After this determination the Thing was closed , and there was no journey that summer . 
OF THE PEOPLE OF THE FAREY ISLANDS . 
there came from the Farey Islands to Norway , on the king's invitation , Gille the lagman , Leif Ossurson , Thoralf of Dimun , and many other bondes' sons . 
Thord of Gata made himself ready for the voyage but just as he was setting out he got a stroke of palsy , and could not come , so he remained behind . 
In that meeting it appeared from the king's words that he would make the Farey people who had come answerable , and would bind them by oath to conclude this union . 
He also offered to the men whom he thought the ablest to take them into his service , and bestow honour and friendship on them . 
These Farey men understood the king's words so , that they must dread the turn the matter might take if they did not submit to all that the king desired . 
Although they held several meetings about the business before it ended , the king's desire at last prevailed . 
Now the king ordered a ship to be rigged , manned it , and sent men to the Farey Islands to receive the scat from the inhabitants which they should pay him . 
OF THE MARRIAGE OF KETIL AND OF THORD TO THE KING'S SISTERS . 
It happened while King Olaf was in Hedemark that Ketil Kalf of Ringanes courted Gunhild , a daughter of Sigurd Syr and of King Olaf's mother Asta . 
Gunhild was a sister of King Olaf , and therefore it belonged to the king to give consent and determination to the business . 
All these circumstances induced the king to approve of the match , and so it was that Ketil got Gunhild . 
King Olaf was present at the wedding . 
From thence the king went north to Gudbrandsdal , where he was entertained in guest quarters . 
There dwelt a man , by name Thord Guthormson , on a farm called Steig and he was the most powerful man in the north end of the valley . 
After the matter was considered , it was determined that the marriage should proceed , and Thord got Isrid . 
Afterwards Thord was the king's faithful friend , and also many of Thord's relations and friends , who followed his footsteps . 
From thence King Olaf returned south through Thoten and Hadaland , from thence to Ringerike , and so to Viken . 
he went to Tunsberg , and stayed there while there was the market meeting , and a great resort of people . 
He then had his vessels rigged out , and had many people about him . 
Gudmund Eyjolfson had died the winter before . 
These Iceland men repaired to King Olaf as soon as they had opportunity and when they met the king they were well received , and all were in his house . 
The king fitted out another ship , manned it , and sent it to the Farey Islands for the scat . 
HERE BEGINS THE STORY OF CANUTE THE GREAT . 
During this time Canute the Great , called by some Canute the Old , was king of England and Denmark . 
Canute the Great was a son of Svein Haraldson Forkedbeard , whose forefathers , for a long course of generations , had ruled over Denmark . 
The Danish King , Svein Haraldson , ruled also over Norway , and placed his son in law Earl Eirik , the son of Earl Hakon , to defend the country . 
But when Olaf the Thick came first to Norway , as before related , he took prisoner Earl Hakon the son of Eirik , and deposed him from the kingdom . 
Then Hakon proceeded to his mother's brother , Canute the Great , and had been with him constantly until the time to which here in our saga we have now come . 
Canute the Great had conquered England by blows and weapons , and had a long struggle before the people of the land were subdued . 
He thought he had hereditary right to all Norway and his sister's son Hakon , who had held a part of it , appeared to him to have lost it with disgrace . 
In his whole kingdom peace was so well established , that no man dared break it . 
The people of the country kept the peace towards each other , and had their old country law and for this he was greatly celebrated in all countries . 
CANUTE'S MESSAGE TO KING OLAF . 
Canute the Great sent men from the West , from England , to Norway , and equipped them magnificently for the journey . 
They were bearers of the English king Canute's letter and seal . 
to the king of Norway , Olaf Haraldson , in Tunsberg . 
Thereupon they presented their letters , which contained precisely the same conditions . 
It has since come so far that King Canute rules over Denmark and England , and has conquered for himself a great part of Scotland . 
Now he claims also my paternal heritage , and will then show some moderation in his covetousness . 
After this answer King Canute's ambassadors made themselves ready for their journey home , and were by no means rejoiced at the success of their errand . 
Sigvat the skald had been with King Canute , who had given him a gold ring that weighed half a mark . 
The skald Berse Skaldtorfason was also there , and to him King Canute gave two gold rings , each weighing two marks , and besides a sword inlaid with gold . 
Now God knows well , And skalds can tell , What justice here would crave . 
Sigvat the skald was very intimate with King Canute's messengers , and asked them many questions . 
They answered all his inquiries about their conversation with King Olaf , and the result of their message . 
They said the king listened unwillingly to their proposals . 
King Canute's ambassadors proceeded on their way back , and had a favourable breeze across the sea . 
They came to King Canute , and told him the result of their errand , and King Olaf's last words . 
King Canute gave these brothers great fiefs over there , and they stood in great favour . 
KING OLAF'S ALLIANCE WITH ONUND THE KING OF SVITHJOD . 
, for a report was abroad that King Canute would come from England . 
People had heard from merchant vessels that Canute was assembling a great army in England . 
When summer was advanced , some affirmed and others denied that the army would come . 
King Olaf was all summer in Viken , and had spies out to learn if Canute was come to Denmark . 
He thought it advisable , therefore , that they should unite for their defence . 
And then , said he , we will have strength enough to hold out against Canute . 
In these messages between them it was also determined that they should have a meeting , and consult with each other . 
King Onund intended to travel across West Gautland , and King Olaf made preparations for taking his winter abode at Sarpsborg . 
KING CANUTE'S AMBASSADORS TO ONUND OF SVITHJOD . 
In autumn King Canute the Great came to Denmark , and remained there all winter with a numerous army . 
It was told him that ambassadors with messages had been passing between the Swedish and Norwegian kings , and that some great plans must be concerting between them . 
In winter King Canute sent messengers to Svithjod , to King Onund , with great gifts and messages of friendship . 
When the ambassadors came to King Onund they presented the gifts which King Canute sent him , together with the friendly message . 
King Onund did not hear their speech very willingly , and the ambassadors could observe that King Onund was most inclined to a friendship with King Olaf . 
They returned accordingly , and told King Canute the result of their errand , and told him not to depend much upon the friendship of King Onund . 
King Olaf sat in Sarpsborg , and was surrounded by a very great army of people . 
He sent the Halogalander Karle to the north country upon his business . 
It was settled that the king should be in partnership with Karle , and each of them have the half of the profit . 
Early in spring Karle directed his course to Halogaland , where his brother Gunstein prepared to accompany him , having his own merchant goods with him . 
There were about twenty five men in the ship and in spring they sailed north to Finmark . 
Thorer alone had the command over this crew , and he alone had all the goods they might acquire on the cruise . 
When Thorer was ready for sea he set out northwards along the coast , and found Karle a little north of Sandver . 
They then proceeded with good wind . 
Gunstein said to his brother , as soon as they met Thorer , that in his opinion Thorer was strongly manned . 
I think , said he , we had better turn back than sail so entirely in Thorer's power , for I do not trust him . 
The brothers spoke about it to Thorer , and asked what was the meaning of his taking more people with him than was agreed upon between them . 
He replies , We have a large ship which requires many hands , and methinks there cannot be too many brave lads for so dangerous a cruise . 
They went in summer as fast in general as the vessels could go . 
When the wind was light the ship of the brothers sailed fastest , and they separated but when the wind freshened Thorer overtook them . 
They were seldom together , but always in sight of each other . 
When they came to Bjarmaland they went straight to the merchant town , and the market began . 
All who had money to pay with got filled up with goods . 
Thorer also got a number of furs , and of beaver and sable skins . 
Karle had a considerable sum of money with him , with which he purchased skins and furs . 
When the fair was at an end they went out of the Vina river , and then the truce of the country people was also at an end . 
When they came out of the river they held a seaman's council , and Thorer asked the crews if they would like to go on the land and get booty . 
They replied , that they would like it well enough , if they saw the booty before their eyes . 
Thorer replies , that there was booty to be got , if the voyage proved fortunate but that in all probability there would be danger in the attempt . 
All said they would try , if there was any chance of booty . 
Thorer explained , that it was so established in this land , that when a rich man died all his movable goods were divided between the dead man and his heirs . 
He tells them at the same time to get ready for this expedition at the fall of day . 
It was resolved that one should not desert the other , and none should hold back when the commander ordered them to come on board again . 
They now left people behind to take care of the ships , and went on land , where they found flat fields at first , and then great forests . 
Thorer went first , and the brothers Karle and Gunstein in rear . 
Thorer commanded the people to observe the utmost silence . 
And let us peel the bark off the trees , says he , so that one tree mark can be seen from the other . 
They came to a large cleared opening , where there was a high fence upon which there was a gate that was locked . 
Thorer went to the fence , stuck his axe up in it above his head , hauled himself up by it , and so came over the fence , and inside the gate . 
Then said Thorer , Within this fence there is a mound in which gold , and silver , and earth are all mixed together seize that . 
But within here stands the Bjarmaland people's god Jomala let no one be so presumptuous as to rob him . 
Thereafter Thorer said that the people now should retreat . 
And ye brothers , Karle and Gunstein , says he , do ye lead the way , and I will go last . 
They all went accordingly out of the gate but Thorer went back to Jomala , and took a silver bowl that stood upon his knee full of silver money . 
He put the silver in his purse , and put his arm within the handle of the bowl , and so went out of the gate . 
Karle seized the ornament , and they all hastened away . 
But the moment the sound was made the watchmen came forward upon the cleared space , and blew their horns . 
was heard all around from every quarter , calling the people together . 
They hastened to the forest , and rushed into it and heard the shouts and cries on the other side of the Bjarmaland people in pursuit . 
Thorer Hund went the last of the whole troop and before him went two men carrying a great sack between them , in which was something that was like ashes . 
Thorer took this in his hand , and strewed it upon the footpath , and sometimes over the people . 
They came thus out of the woods , and upon the fields , but heard incessantly the Bjarmaland people pursuing with shouts and dreadful yells . 
Now when they reached their ships Karle and his brother went on board for they were the foremost , and Thorer was far behind on the land . 
Both vessels sailed across the White sea . 
Now Thorer came up , and lay at anchor there also . 
Thorer and his people then put out a boat , went into it , and rowed to Karle's ship . 
Thorer came on board , and the brothers saluted him . 
Thorer told Karle to give him the ornament . 
Karle replies , King Olaf has the half part of all the goods I gather on this voyage , and I intend the ornament for him . 
Go to him , if you like , and it is possible he will give thee the ornament , although I took it from Jomala . 
Then Thorer insisted that they should go upon the island , and divide the booty . 
Gunstein says , It is now the turn of the tide , and it is time to sail . 
Whereupon they began to raise their anchor . 
When Thorer saw that , he returned to his boat and rowed to his own ship . 
Karle and his men had hoisted sail , and were come a long way before Thorer got under way . 
They now sailed so that the brothers were always in advance , and both vessels made all the haste they could . 
They sailed thus until they came to Geirsver , which is the first roadstead of the traders to the North . 
They both came there towards evening , and lay in the harbour near the landing place . 
Thorer's ship lay inside , and the brothers' the outside vessel in the port . 
When Thorer had set up his tents he went on shore , and many of his men with him . 
They went to Karle's ship , which was well provided . 
Thorer hailed the ship , and told the commanders to come on shore on which the brothers , and some men with them , went on the land . 
Now Thorer began the same discourse , and told them to bring the goods they got in booty to the land to have them divided . 
The brothers thought that was not necessary , until they had arrived at their own neighbourhood . 
Thorer said it was unusual not to divide booty but at their own home , and thus to be left to the honour of other people . 
They spoke some words about it , but could not agree . 
Then Thorer turned away but had not gone far before he came back , and tells his comrades to wait there . 
Thereupon he calls to Karle , and says he wants to speak with him alone . 
Karle went to meet him and when he came near , Thorer struck at him with a spear , so that it went through him . 
There , said Thorer , now thou hast learnt to know a Bjarkey Island man . 
I thought thou shouldst feel Asbjorn's spear . 
Karle died instantly , and Thorer with his people went immediately on board their ship . 
When Thorer and his men saw this , they took down their tents and made preparations to follow . 
Gunstein had already got a long way ahead before Thorer's ship fetched way , and now they used both sails and oars . 
A little after Thorer came there with his ship , sprang upon the land after them , and pursued them . 
There was a woman who helped Gunstein to conceal himself , and it is told that she was much acquainted with witchcraft . 
Thereafter Thorer , with his people , returned home to Bjarkey Isle . 
Gunstein and his people proceeded in small boats at first , and lay concealed by day , until they had passed Bjarkey , and had got beyond Thorer's district . 
The king was ill pleased with the voyage , but told Gunstein to remain with him , promising to assist him when opportunity offered . 
Gunstein took the invitation with thanks , and stayed with King Olaf . 
Ludr the loor is a long tube or roll of birch bark used as a horn by the herdboys in the mountains in Norway . 
MEETING OF KING OLAF AND KING ONUND . 
that King Canute was in Denmark . 
The Swedish king Onund rode across West Gautland the same winter , and had thirty hundred men with him . 
Men and messages passed between them and they agreed to meet in spring at Konungahella . 
The meeting had been postponed , because they wished to know before they met what King Canute intended doing . 
Ulf was married to Astrid , King Svein's daughter , and sister of Canute the Great . 
Their son Svein was afterwards king of Denmark . 
Earl Ulf was a very distinguished man . 
When the kings Olaf and Onund heard that Canute the Great had gone west to England , they hastened to hold their conference , and met at Konungahella , on the Gaut river . 
At parting the kings presented each other with gifts , and parted the best of friends . 
Here he heard that Erling Skjalgson , and the inhabitants of Jadar with him , had assembled a large force . 
One day the king's people were talking among themselves whether the wind was south or south west , and whether with that wind they could sail past Jadar or not . 
The most said it was impossible to fetch round . 
Then answers Haldor Brynjolfson , I am of opinion that we would go round Jadar with this wind fast enough if Erling Skjalgson had prepared a feast for us at Sole . 
Then King Olaf ordered the tents to be struck , and the vessels to be hauled out , which was done . 
It was resolved that Thoralf should undertake the journey . 
He got himself ready , and rigged out a merchant vessel belonging to himself , manned with ten or twelve men . 
Gaut the Red was also there , who was one of their relations and a man of distinction . 
Sigurd was the oldest , and their leader in all things . 
Thord had a distinguished name , and was called Thord the Low , although in reality he was uncommonly tall , and yet in proportion more strong than large . 
I believe the vessel I have standing here in the boat house will be so old that it will rot under its coat of tar . 
Here are all the houses full of wool , which is neither used nor sold . 
It should not be so if I were a few winters younger . 
Sigurd sprang up , called upon Gaut and Thord , and said he would not endure Thrand's scoffs . 
They went out to the houseservants , and launched the vessel upon the water , brought down a cargo , and loaded the ship . 
They had no want of a cargo at home , and the vessel's rigging was in good order , so that in a few days they were ready for sea . 
There were ten or twelve men in the vessel . 
Thoralf's ship and theirs had the same wind , and they were generally in sight of each other . 
When they were ready , they prepared to return on board . 
He was taken away , and thrown head foremost down but there was sea under him , and he sank under the water . 
When the ship's people heard of it they carried the body out to the ship , and let it remain there all night . 
King Olaf was at that time in guest quarters at Lygra , and thither they sent a message . 
Now a Thing was called by message token , and the king came to the Thing . 
He had also ordered the Farey people of both vessels to be summoned , and they appeared at the Thing . 
is very seldom heard of . 
Here has a good man been put to death , without any cause . 
Is there any man upon the Thing who can say who has done it ? Nobody could answer . 
Then , said the king , I cannot conceal my suspicion that this deed has been done by the Farey people themselves . 
It appears to me that it has been done in this way , that Sigurd Thorlakson has killed the man , and Thord the Low has cast his comrade into the sea . 
When he had ended his speech , Sigurd Thorlakson stood up , and desired to be heard . 
I have never before , said he , spoken at a Thing , and I do not expect to be looked upon as a man of ready words . 
But I think there is sufficient necessity before me to reply something to this . 
It is speaking improbabilities to say that I could be Thoralf's murderer for he was my foster brother and good friend . 
But I am ready to clear myself , and my whole ship's crew , of this act , and to make oath according to what stands in your laws . 
When Sigurd had ceased to speak there were many who supported his case , and begged the king that Sigurd might be allowed to clear himself of this accusation . 
They thought that Sigurd had spoken well , and that the accusation against him might be untrue . 
The king went back to Lygra , and Sigurd and his comrades to their ship . 
As soon as it began to be dark at night Sigurd said to his ship's people . 
To say the truth , we have come into a great misfortune for a great lie is got up against us , and this king is a deceitful , crafty man . 
Our fate is easy to be foreseen where he rules for first he made Thoralf be slain , and then made us the misdoers , without benefit of redemption by fine . 
For him it is an easy matter to manage the iron ordeal , so that I fear he will come ill off who tries it against him . 
Let Thrand himself come with his wool to market another summer but if I get away , it is my opinion I shall never think of coming to Norway again . 
His comrades thought the advice good , hoisted their sail , and in the night time took to the open sea with all speed . 
They did not stop until they came to Farey , and home to Gata . 
Thrand was ill pleased with their voyage , and they did not answer him in a very friendly way but they remained at home , however , with Thrand . 
King Olaf spoke but little about the matter , but seemed to know of a certainty that the suspicion he had taken up was founded in truth . 
The king afterwards proceeded in his progress , taking up his abode where it was provided for him . 
Now I will tell you what my intention is . 
to Iceland , taking with him the message he was to bring before the Thing the following summer . 
namely , a penny for every nose , and the penny at the rate of ten pennies to the yard of wadmal . 
At the same time he promised them his friendship if they accepted , and threatened them with all his vengeance if they refused his proposals . 
The people sat long in deliberation on this business but at last they were unanimous in refusing all the taxes and burdens which were demanded of them . 
Towards the end of autumn King Olaf repaired north to Throndhjem , and went with his people to Nidaros , where he ordered a winter residence to be prepared for him . 
that he passed here in the merchant town of Nidaros was the thirteenth year of his reign . 
, a nose tax or poll tax payable to the king . 
This ancient nose tax was also imposed by the Norsemen on conquered countries , the penalty for defaulters being the loss of their nose . 
Wadmal was the coarse woollen cloth made in Iceland , and so generally used for clothing that it was a measure of value in the North , like money , for other commodities . 
There was once a man called Ketil Jamte , a son of Earl Onund of Sparby , in the Throndhjem district . 
He fled over the ridge of mountains from Eystein Illrade , cleared the forest , and settled the country now called the province of Jamtaland . 
Thorer Helsing was Ketil's grandson , and he colonised the province called Helsingjaland , which is named after him . 
This continued long after those times , until Olaf the Thick and the Swedish king Olaf quarrelled about the boundaries . 
The Swedes would listen to nothing , but that all the land to the east of the keel of the country belonged to the Swedish king . 
The Icelanders , Thorod Snorrason and Stein Skaptason , were ill pleased at not being allowed to do as they liked . 
Stein was a remarkably handsome man , dexterous at all feats , a great poet , splendid in his apparel , and very ambitious of distinction . 
His father , Skapte , had composed a poem on King Olaf , which he had taught Stein , with the intention that he should bring it to King Olaf . 
Stein could not now restrain himself from making the king reproaches in word and speech , both in verse and prose . 
The king was angry at this . 
One day Stein stood before the king , and asked if he would listen to the poem which his father Skapte had composed about him . 
The king replies , Thou must first repeat that , Stein , which thou hast composed about me . 
Stein replies , that it was not the case that he had composed any . 
I am no skald , sire , said he and if I even could compose anything , it , and all that concerns me , would appear to thee of little value . 
Stein then went out , but thought he perceived what the king alluded to . 
One night Stein left the city , and his footboy with him . 
They went up Gaularas and into Orkadal . 
Stein begged the loan of a horse and sledge , for he saw they were just driving home corn . 
Thorgeir replies , I do not exactly see how it stands with thy journey , and if thou art travelling with the king's leave . 
The other day , methinks , the words were not very sweet that passed between the king and thee . 
Then he took the horse , put the boy upon him , and sat himself in the sledge , and so drove the whole night . 
They travelled until they came to Surnadal in More . 
There they had themselves ferried across the fjord , and proceeded onwards as fast as they could . 
They told nobody about the murder , but wherever they came called themselves king's men , and met good entertainment everywhere . 
One day at last they came towards evening to Giske Isle , to Thorberg Arnason's house . 
He was not at home himself , but his wife Ragnhild , a daughter of Erling Skjalgson , was . 
There Stein was well received , because formerly there had been great friendship between them . 
It had once happened , namely , that Stein , on his voyage from Iceland with his own vessel , had come to Giske from sea , and had anchored at the island . 
At that time Ragnhild was in the pains of childbirth , and very ill , and there was no priest on the island , or in the neighbourhood of it . 
There came a message to the merchant vessel to inquire if , by chance , there was a priest on board . 
There happened to be a priest in the vessel , who was called Bard but he was a young man from Westfjord , who had little learning . 
The messengers begged the priest to go with them , but he thought it was a difficult matter for he knew his own ignorance , and would not go . 
Stein added his word to persuade the priest . 
The priest replies , I will go if thou wilt go with me for then I will have confidence , if I should require advice . 
Stein said he was willing and they went forthwith to the house , and to where Ragnhild was in labour . 
Soon after she brought forth a female child , which appeared to be rather weak . 
Then the priest baptized the infant , and Stein held it at the baptism , at which it got the name of Thora and Stein gave it a gold ring . 
Ragnhild promised Stein her perfect friendship , and bade him come to her whenever he thought he required her help . 
Stein replied that he would hold no other female child at baptism , and then they parted . 
She answered , that all the aid she could give should stand at his service but bade him wait for Thorberg's arrival . 
She then showed him to a seat beside her son Eystein Orre , who was then twelve years old . 
Stein presented gifts to Ragnhild and Eystein . 
Thorberg had already heard how Stein had conducted himself before he got home , and was rather vexed at it . 
Ragnhild went to him , and told him how matters stood with Stein , and begged Thorberg to receive him , and take care of him . 
Let Stein , therefore , withdraw from hence as quickly as thou canst . 
Ragnhild replied , that they should either both go or both stay . 
Thorberg told her to go where she pleased . 
For I expect , said he , that wherever thou goest thou wilt soon come back , for here is thy importance greatest . 
Her son Eystein Orre then stood forward , and said he would not stay behind if Ragnhild goes . 
Thorberg said that they showed themselves very stiff and obstinate in this matter . 
Thorberg said he would not send Stein there for there are enough of things besides to enrage the king against Erling . 
Stein thus remained there all winter . 
After Yule a king's messenger came to Thorberg , with the order that Thorberg should come to him before midsummer and the order was serious and severe . 
Thorberg laid it before his friends , and asked their advice if he should venture to go to the king after what had taken place . 
Soon after Thorberg went to his brother Fin , told him the circumstances , and asked him to accompany him . 
Thou art free , replied Thorberg , to go with me or not but I believe it is more fear of the king than love to him that keeps thee back . 
And so they parted in anger . 
Then Thorberg went to his brother Arne Arnason , and asked him to go with him to the king . 
Arne says , It appears to me wonderful that such a sensible , prudent man , should fall into such a misfortune , without necessity , as to incur the king's indignation . 
Thorberg replies , It stands good , according to the proverb , a rotten branch will be found in every tree . 
Thorberg turned away in a gloomy temper , and went home . 
Ragnhild sent men east to Jadar to her father Erling , and begged him to send people . 
Erling's sons , Sigurd and Thord , came out , each with a ship of twenty benches of rowers and ninety men . 
When they came north Thorberg received them joyfully , entertained them well , and prepared for the voyage with them . 
Thorberg had also a vessel with twenty benches , and they steered their course northwards . 
When they came to the mouth of the Throndhjem fjord Thorberg's two brothers , Fin and Arne , were there already , with two ships each of twenty benches . 
Thorberg met his brothers with joy , and observed that his whetstone had taken effect and Fin replied he seldom needed sharpening for such work . 
Then they proceeded north with all their forces to Throndhjem , and Stein was along with them . 
When they came to Agdanes , Kaff Arnason was there before them and he also had a wellmanned ship of twenty benches . 
With this war force they sailed up to Nidaros , where they lay all night . 
The morning after they had a consultation with each other . 
It was accordingly resolved that Fin and Arne , with a few men , should first wait upon the king . 
The king had previously heard that they had come so strong in men , and was therefore very sharp in his speech . 
Then Fin returned to his forces , and told the conditions which the king had proposed to them . 
Now they held a council upon it , and Thorberg , for his part , said he would accept the terms offered . 
Fin says , we will venture to let King Olaf himself determine in this matter . 
Thereupon the brothers Thorberg , Fin , and Arne , went on board a vessel , rowed into the fjord , and waited upon the king . 
The agreement went accordingly into fulfillment , so that the brothers gave their oaths to the king . 
Then Thorberg and his brothers went back to their men . 
Kalf went to Eggja , and Fin to the king and Thorberg , with the other men , went south to their homes . 
he went west to England into the service of Canute the Great , and was long with him , and was treated with great distinction . 
FIN ARNASON S EXPEDITION TO HALOGALAND . 
Then the king named other men whom he sent to Throndhjem , and some southwards in the country , and he commanded that this order should be circulated through the whole land . 
There he summoned the bondes to a Thing , laid before them his errand , and craved a levy . 
The bondes in that district had large vessels , suited to a levy expedition , and they obeyed the king's message , and rigged their ships . 
Now when Fin came farther north in Halogaland he held a Thing again , and sent some of his men from him to crave a levy where he thought it necessary . 
He sent also men to Bjarkey Island to Thorer Hund , and there , as elsewhere , craved the quota to the levy . 
Fin summoned all the people of Halogaland who were to the north to meet at Vagar . 
There came a great fleet together in spring , and they waited there until Fin returned from the North . 
Thorer Hund had also come there . 
I have the king's orders to settle that business , and I wait thy answer to it . 
Thorer looked about him , and saw standing on both sides many fully armed men , among whom were Gunstein and others of Karle's kindred . 
Then said Thorer , My proposal is soon made . 
I will refer altogether to the king's pleasure the matter he thinks he has against me . 
Fin replies , Thou must put up with a less honour for thou must refer the matter altogether to my decision , if any agreement is to take place . 
Thorer replies , And even then I think it will stand well with my case , and therefore I will not decline referring it to thee . 
Thereupon Thorer came forward , and confirmed what he said by giving his hand upon it and Fin repeated first all the words he should say . 
Thorer says , This is a heavy money mulct . 
Without it , replies Fin , there will be no agreement . 
Thorer asserted that he had not got the ornament . 
Then Gunstein pressed forward , and said that Karle had the ornament around his neck when they parted , but it was gone when they took up his corpse . 
Thorer said he had not observed any ornament but if there was any such thing , it must be lying at home in Bjarkey . 
Thereafter Thorer turned away , and went on board his ship . 
Fin , with many other men , followed him , went through the whole vessel , and took up the hatches . 
At the mast they saw two very large casks and Fin asked , What are these puncheons ? Thorer replies , It is my liquor . 
Now Fin ordered Thorer to pay the mulcts . 
Thorer went backwards and forwards through the ship , speaking now to the one , now to the other , and Fin calling out to produce the pence . 
Thorer begged him to go to the shore , and said he would bring the money there , and Fin with his men went on shore . 
Then Thorer came and paid silver of which , from one purse , there were weighed ten marks . 
Thereafter Thorer brought many knotted nightcaps and in some was one mark , in others half a mark , and in others some small money . 
This is money my friends and other good people have lent me , said he for I think all my travelling money is gone . 
Then Thorer went back again to his ship , and returned , and paid the silver by little and little and this lasted so long that the day was drawing towards evening . 
Then Fin said , This goes on very slowly , Thorer , with the payment . 
I see it costs thee a great deal to pay money . 
I shall now let it stand for the present , and what remains thou shalt pay to the king himself . 
Fin then got up and went away . 
Then Fin went on board his ship , and followed the rest of his fleet . 
Thorer was late before he was ready to come out of the harbour . 
Thorer held this course until he got into the English sea , and landed in England . 
He betook himself to King Canute forthwith , and was well received by him . 
It then came out that Thorer had with him a great deal of property and , with other things , all the money he and Karle had taken in Bjarmaland . 
In the great liquor casks there were sides within the outer sides , and the liquor was between them . 
The rest of the casks were filled with furs , and beaver and sable skins . 
Thorer was then with King Canute . 
And there I fear he will cause as much trouble . 
The king replies , I believe that Thorer must be our enemy , and it appears to me always better to have him at a distance than near . 
DISPUTE BETWEEN HAREK AND ASMUND . 
in Halogaland in his sheriffdom , and was at home with his father Grankel . 
Both father and son went therefore in spring to Harek , and brought him a message and tokens from King Olaf that he should drop his claim . 
Harek answered Asmund crossly , because he had gone to the king with such insinuations for the just right is upon my side . 
Thou shouldst learn moderation , Asmund , although thou hast so much confidence in the king's favour . 
But it is likely that now thou must turn thyself elsewhere , and not against us with thy violence , and not go altogether against law , as thou art now doing . 
But when they were ready to return home , Asmund Grankelson came with thirty men , and ordered them to give up all they had taken . 
Harek's house servants were not quick in complying , so that Asmund attacked them . 
Then Harek's servants came home , and told him the event . 
Harek replies , That is called news indeed that seldom happens never before has it happened that my people have been beaten . 
Harek never spoke about it , but was very cheerful . 
The king summoned Harek and Asmund to him , and reconciled them so that they left the matter entirely to him . 
Asmund then produced witnesses to prove that Grankel had owned the rock , and the king gave judgment accordingly . 
The case had a one sided result . 
No mulct was paid for Harek's house servants , and the rock was declared to be Grankel's . 
Harek observed it was no disgrace to obey the king's decision , whatever way the case itself was decided . 
Thorod Snorrason had remained in Norway , according to King Olaf's commands , when Geller Thorkelson got leave to go to Iceland , as before related . 
with King Olaf , but was ill pleased that he was not free to travel where he pleased . 
Thorod Snorrason now offered to undertake this journey , for he cared little what became of him if he could but become his own master again . 
The king consented , and Thorod set out with eleven men in company . 
They came east to Jamtaland , and went to a man called Thorar , who was lagman , and a person in high estimation . 
They met with a hospitable reception and when they had been there a while , they explained their business to Thorar . 
It was so done the message token was sent out , and a numerous Thing assembled . 
Thorar went to the Thing , but the messengers in the meantime remained at home . 
Thorod and another remained in Thorar's house . 
There was another village not far distant , where Thorar's brother in law dwelt , who was a rich and powerful man , and had a grown up son . 
The brothers in law drank together , and Thorod and the sons of the peasants by themselves and it was a drinking match . 
Thorod took notice of these words , and many made jest about it , and scoffed at them and their king . 
When the ale began to talk out of the hearts of the Jamtalanders , what Thorod had before long suspected became evident . 
They brought them home to a room in which there was a deep cellar , into which they were thrown , and the door locked upon them . 
They had little meat , and only the clothes they had on them . 
In the middle of Yule , Thorar , with all his freeborn men , went to his brother's in law , where he was to be a guest until the last of Yule . 
As they were quite drunk , those who had to bring meat to the prisoners in the cellar said among themselves that they should want for nothing . 
Thorod amused the slaves by singing to them . 
It fastened itself around a chest , by which they tried to haul themselves up . 
Thorod lifted up his comrade until he stood on his shoulders , and from thence scrambled up through the hatchhole . 
But before they set off they set fire to a large corn barn which was close by , and then ran out into the pitch dark night . 
The barn blazed , and set fire to many other houses in the village . 
Thorod and his comrade travelled the whole night until they came to a lonely wood , where they concealed themselves when it was daylight . 
In the morning they were missed . 
Thorod and his comrade wandered long about in the desert forest , and came one evening to a small house , and went in . 
A man and a woman were sitting by the fire . 
The man called himself Thorer , and said it was his wife who was sitting there , and the hut belonged to them . 
The peasant asked them to stop there , at which they were well pleased . 
He told them that he had come to this place , because he had fled from the inhabited district on account of a murder . 
Thorod saw a man come in from another house , and never had he seen so stout a man . 
He was dressed in a scarlet cloak beset with gold clasps , and was of very handsome appearance . 
Thorod heard him scold them for taking guests , when they had scarcely food for themselves . 
The housewife said , Be not angry , brother seldom such a thing happens and rather do them some good too , for thou hast better opportunity to do so than we . 
Thorod heard also the stout man named by the name of Arnliot Gelline , and observed that the woman of the house was his sister . 
Thorod had heard speak of Arnliot as the greatest of robbers and malefactors . 
They arose immediately , put on their clothes , and some breakfast was given them and Arnliot gave each of them also a pair of skees . 
He waited for them , and said they would make no progress in this way , and told them to stand upon the edge of his skees beside him . 
Thorod stood nearest to him , and held by Arnliot's belt , and his comrade held by him . 
Arnliot strode on as quickly with them both , as if he was alone and without any weight . 
Arnliot took a silver plate out of the pocket of his cloak , and ate from it . 
When they were done eating , Arnliot gathered up the remains of their meal , and they prepared to go to sleep . 
In the other end of the house there was a loft upon cross beams , and Arnliot and the others went up , and laid themselves down to sleep . 
They had both their weapons and their clothes up in the loft beside them . 
Arnliot , who lay outermost in the loft , told them to be perfectly quiet . 
They then prepared to go to sleep , and laid themselves down upon the benches around the fire . 
Then she gripped the man who was nearest to her , riving and tearing him asunder , and threw him upon the fire . 
The others awoke in dreadful fright , and sprang up , but she took them , and put them one by one to death , so that only one remained in life . 
He ran under the loft calling for help , and if there was any one on the loft to help him . 
Arnliot reached down his hand , seized him by the shoulder , and drew him up into the loft . 
The witch wife had turned towards the fire , and began to eat the men who were roasting . 
Now Arnliot stood up , took his halberd , and struck her between the shoulders , so that the point came out at her breast . 
She writhed with it , gave a dreadful shriek , and sprang up . 
The halberd slipped from Arnliot's hands , and she ran out with it . 
When the day broke they got up and first they took their breakfast . 
When they had got food , Arnliot said , Now we must part here . 
Ye can proceed upon the new traced path the merchants have made in coming here yesterday . 
Then he took his silver plate , wiped it dry with a cloth , and said , Give King Olaf this plate salute him , and say it is from me . 
Then they made themselves ready for their journey , and parted . 
Thorod went on with his comrade and the man of the merchants company who had escaped . 
told the king all that had happened , and presented to him the silver plate . 
Thorod remained the rest of the winter with the king , and in summer got leave to return to Iceland and he and King Olaf parted the best of friends . 
KING OLAF'S LEVY OF MEN . 
He went from thence to South More . 
In one of these Things he made a speech , in which he spoke of the loss he suffered from the Farey islanders . 
The scat which they promised me , he said , is not forthcoming and I now intend to send men thither after it . 
Then he proposed to different men to undertake this expedition but the answer was , that all declined the adventure . 
Then there stood up a stout and very remarkable looking man in the Thing . 
He was clad in a red kirtle , had a helmet on his head , a sword in his belt , and a large halberd in his hands . 
He took up the word and said , In truth here is a great want of men . 
I have hitherto been no friend of the king , and he has been my enemy , and says , besides , that he has good grounds for being so . 
Now , I offer , sire , to go upon this expedition , if no better will undertake it . 
He replies , My name , sire , is not difficult to know , and I think thou hast heard my name before . 
But I will not show myself worse than thou , but will join my thanks and my favour to the side of the help thou hast offered me . 
Now thou shalt come to me , Karl , and be my guest to day and then we shall consult together about this business . 
Karl said it should be so . 
Karl Morske had been a viking , and a celebrated robber . 
Now when Karl had undertaken this business the king was reconciled to him , gave him his friendship , and let him be fitted out in the best manner for this expedition . 
Karl set out as soon as he was ready and as he got a favourable breeze soon came to the Farey Islands , and landed at Thorshavn , in the island Straumey . 
A Thing was called , to which there came a great number of people . 
Thrand of Gata came with a great retinue , and Leif and Gille came there also , with many in their following . 
After they had set up their tents , and put themselves in order , they went to Karl Morske , and saluted each other on both sides in a friendly way . 
Karl replies , that he had already settled to lodge with Leif otherwise I would with great pleasure have accepted thy invitation . 
Thrand said it was both his duty and interest to assist in the king's business , and thereupon Thrand returned to his tent and at that Thing nothing else worth speaking of occurred . 
Leif collected the scat of Straumey Island , and all the islands south of it . 
The spring after Thrand of Gata fell ill , and had sore eyes and other complaints but he prepared to attend the Thing , as was his custom . 
When he came to the Thing he had his tent put up , and within it another black tent , that the light might not penetrate . 
After some days of the Thing had passed , Leif and Karl came to Thrand's tent , with a great many people , and found some persons standing outside . 
They asked if Thrand was in the tent , and were told he was . 
Leif told them to bid Thrand come out , as he and Karl had some business with him . 
They came back , and said that Thrand had sore eyes , and could not come out but he begs thee , Leif , to come to him within . 
Leif told his comrades to come carefully into the tent , and not to press forward , and that he who came last in should go out first . 
Leif went in first , followed by Karl , and then his comrades and all fully armed as if they were going into battle . 
Leif went into the black tent and asked if Thrand was there . 
Thrand answered and saluted Leif . 
Leif returned his salutation , and asked if he had brought the scat from the northern islands , and if he would pay the scat that had been collected . 
Thrand replies , that he had not forgotten what had been spoken of between him and Karl , and that he would now pay over the scat . 
Here is a purse , Leif , full of silver , which thou canst receive . 
Leif looked around , and saw but few people in the tent , of whom some were lying upon the benches , and a few were sitting up . 
When they had looked at it a while , Karl asked Leif what he thought of the silver . 
He replied , I am thinking where the bad money that is in the north isles can have come from . 
Thrand heard this , and said , Do you not think , Leif , the silver is good ? No , says he . 
Thrand replies , Our relations , then , are rascals not to be trusted . 
Leif thereupon carried back this silver , and received another bag , which he carried to Karl , and they looked over the money together . 
Karl asked Leif what he thought of this money . 
This was Gaut the Red . 
Thrand sprang up at Gaut's words , and reprimanded his relation with many angry words . 
At last he said that Leif should leave this silver , and take a bag which his own peasants had brought him in spring . 
And although I am weak sighted , yet my own hand is the truest test . 
Another man who was lying on the bench raised himself now upon his elbow and this was Thord the Low . 
He said , These are no ordinary reproaches we suffer from Karl Morske , and therefore he well deserves a reward for them . 
Let a man come to be present at the counting it out . 
Thrand says that he thought Leif was the fittest man to do it upon his account . 
Leif and Karl thereupon went a short way from the tent , sat down . 
and counted and weighed the silver . 
Karl took the helmet off his head , and received in it the weighed silver . 
They saw a man coming to them who had a stick with an axe head on it in his hand , a hat low upon his head , and a short green cloak . 
He was bare legged , and had linen breeches on tied at the knee . 
He laid his stick down in the field , and went to Karl and said , Take care , Karl Morske , that thou does not hurt thyself against my axe stick . 
Leif rose up instantly , and went off to Gille's tent along with his men . 
Karl remained sitting , and the Norway people stood around in all corners . 
Gaut immediately sprang up , and struck with a hand axe over the heads of the people , and the stroke came on Karl's head but the wound was slight . 
Thord the Low seized the stick axe , which lay in the field at his side , and struck the axe blade right into Karl's skull . 
Many people now streamed out of Thrand's tent . 
Karl was carried away dead . 
Thrand was much grieved at this event , and offered money mulcts for his relations but Leif and Gille , who had to prosecute the business , would accept no mulct . 
Sigurd was banished the country for having wounded Gille's tent comrade , and Gaut and Thord for the murder of Karl . 
The Norway people rigged out the vessel which Karl had with him , and sailed eastward to Olaf , and gave him these tidings . 
And there is nothing more to be told of what happened after King Olaf sent men to the Farey Islands to take scat of them . 
But great strife arose after Karl's death in the Farey Islands between the family of Thrand of Gata and Leif Ossurson , and of which there are great sagas . 
KING OLAF'S EXPEDITION WITH HIS LEVY . 
Now we must proceed with the relation we began before , that King Olaf set out with his men , and raised a levy over the whole country . 
All lendermen in the North followed him excepting Einar Tambaskelfer , who sat quietly at home upon his farm since his return to the country , and did not serve the king . 
Einar had great estates and wealth , although he held no fiefs from the king , and he lived splendidly . 
King Olaf sailed with his fleet south around Stad , and many people from the districts around joined him . 
, and which was called the Visund . 
It was a very large ship , with a bison's head gilded all over upon the bow . 
Olaf has raised a bison's head , Which proudly seems the waves to tread . 
While o'er its golden forehead dashing The waves its glittering horns are washing May God dispose A luckier close . 
The king went on to Hordaland there he heard the news that Erling Skjalgson had left the country with a great force , and four or five ships . 
He himself had a large war ship , and his sons had three of twenty rowing banks each and they had sailed westward to England to Canute the Great . 
OF KING OLAF AND KING ONUND . 
When King Olaf sailed to Denmark , he set his course for Seeland and when he came there he made incursions on the land , and began to plunder . 
The country people were severely treated some were killed , some bound and dragged to the ships . 
All who could do so took to flight , and made no opposition . 
King Olaf committed there the greatest ravages . 
King Onund continued his march until he met his brother in law King Olaf . 
So it happened here that many men went into the service of the kings , and agreed to submit to them . 
Wheresoever they went they laid the country all round subjection to them , and otherwise laid waste all with fire and sword . 
And it runs from mouth to mouth On a lucky day We came away From Throndhjem to the south . 
Across the cold East sea , The Swedish king His host did bring , To gain great victory . 
King Onund came to fight , In Seeland's plains , Against the Danes , With his steel clad men so bright . 
Canute is on the land Side to side His long ships ride Along the yellow strand . 
Where waves wash the green banks , Mast to mast , All bound fast , His great fleet lies in ranks . 
OF KING CANUTE THE GREAT . 
Canute began to gather people , and he had speedily collected a great army and a numerous fleet . 
Earl Hakon was second in command over the whole . 
from the West , from Ruda in Valland , and with him was a man called Berg . 
They had made a merchant voyage there the summer before . 
He then sang The way to Jutland's king I sought A little patience I was taught . 
The doors were shut all full within The udaller could not get in . 
But Gorm's great son did condescend To his own chamber me to send , And grant my prayer although I'm one Whose arms the fetters' weight have known . 
Sigvat made many other songs concerning this expedition of Canute and Hakon . 
OF KING CANUTE'S SHIP THE DRAGON . 
Canute the Great was at last ready with his fleet , and left the land and a vast number of men he had , and ships frightfully large . 
He himself had a dragon ship , so large that it had sixty banks of rowers , and the head was gilt all over . 
Earl Hakon had another dragon of forty banks , and it also had a gilt figure head . 
They had also many other huge ships remarkably well fitted out , and grand . 
On to the East the ship masts glide , Glancing and bright each long ship's side . 
Brave is the royal progress fast The proud ship's keel obeys the mast , Dashes through foam , and gains the land , Raising a surge on Limfjord's strand . 
HARDAKNUT TAKEN TO BE KING IN DENMARK . 
Earl Ulf Sprakalegson had been set as protector over Denmark when King Canute went to England , and the king had intrusted his son Hardaknut in the earl's hands . 
This took place the summer before , as we related . 
The earl then produced King Canute's letter and seal , confirming all that the earl asserted . 
Many other chiefs supported this business and in consequence of all these persuasions the people resolved to take Hardaknut as king , which was done at the same Thing . 
The whole of their ships they assembled in Limfjord , and waited thus for King Canute . 
He replies , that Hardaknut has not done this of his own judgement . 
If he will have any reconciliation with me let him come to me , and lay down the mock title of king he has given himself . 
Then Earl Ulf and his fellows saw they had but two roads to take either to go to the king and leave all to his mercy , or to fly the country . 
All pressed Hardaknut to go to his father , which advice he followed . 
When they met he fell at his father's feet , and laid his seal , which accompanied the kingly title , on his knee . 
King Canute took Hardaknut by the hand , and placed him in as high a seat as he used to sit in before . 
Earl UIf sent his son Svein , who was a sister's son of King Canute , and the same age as Hardaknut , to the king . 
He prayed for grace and reconciliation for his father , and offered himself as hostage for the earl . 
King Canute ordered him to tell the earl to assemble his men and ships , and come to him , and then they would talk of reconciliation . 
As soon as the country people heard that King Canute was come from the West , no one thought of going into the service of the two kings . 
Now the kings sailed eastward along the coast , and brought up in a river called Helga , and remained there some time . 
There at the riverhead they made a dam of timber and turf , and dammed in the lake . 
They also dug a deep ditch , through which they led several waters , so that the lake waxed very high . 
In the river bed they laid large logs of timber . 
They were many days about this work , and King Olaf had the management of this piece of artifice but King Onund had only to command the fleet and army . 
He had a War force which was one half greater than that of both the kings together . 
One day , towards evening , King Onund's spies saw King Canute coming sailing along , and he was not far off . 
King Onund made his spies run up the country to look for King Olaf , and tell him the news . 
Then King Olaf broke up the dam , and let the river take its course . 
King Olaf travelled down in the night to his ships . 
When King Canute came outside the harbour , he saw the forces of the kings ready for battle . 
In the morning , when it was light , a great part of the men went on shore some for amusement , some to converse with the people of other ships . 
The men on shore perished , and many who were in the ships . 
All who could do it cut their cables so that the ships were loose , and drove before the stream , and were scattered here and there . 
As they knew the ship , they laid her on board on all quarters . 
After a short time also Earl Ulf came up with his fleet and then the battle began , and King Canute's fleet gathered together from all quarters . 
When the fleets were parted , and each sailing its course , Olaf and Onund looked over their forces , and found they had suffered no loss of men . 
It was also evident that if the battle was renewed , they must suffer a great loss of men . 
They took the resolution , therefore , to row with the whole fleet eastward along the coast . 
Observing that King Canute did not pursue them , they raised up their masts and set sail . 
Great Canute might deride Two kings if he had pride , For at Helga river's side They would not his sword abide . 
King Canute was not slow King Onund filled the plain With dead , killed by his bow The wolf howled o'er the slain . 
KING OLAF AND KING ONUND'S PLANS . 
King Olaf and King Onund sailed eastward to the Swedish king's dominions and one day , towards evening , landed at a place called Barvik , where they lay all night . 
I had vessels , and now have not above remaining with me . 
Now it appears to me we can make no greater progress than we have made , although you have still the vessels which have followed you the whole summer . 
It therefore appears to me best that we come back to my kingdom for it is always good to drive home with the wagon safe . 
In this expedition we have won something , and lost nothing . 
Now I will offer you , King Olaf , to come with me , and we shall remain assembled during the winter . 
If you , however , will prefer to travel across our country , and go overland to Norway , it shall be free for you to do so . 
King Olaf thanked King Onund for his friendly offer . 
But if I may advise , says he , then we should take another resolution , and keep together the forces we have still remaining . 
We have here chosen men and superb ships , and we can very well lie all winter in our ships , as viking's custom is . 
But Canute cannot lie long in Helga river for the harbour will not hold so many vessels as he has . 
I think , also , we have ravaged so widely in summer , that the villagers , both in Scania and in Halland , know well whose favour they have to seek . 
Canute's army will thus be dispersed so widely , that it is uncertain to whom fate may at the last give the victory but let us first find out what resolution he takes . 
Thus King Olaf ended his speech , and it found much applause , and his advice was followed . 
Spies were sent into King Canute's army , and both the kings Olaf and Onund remained lying where they were . 
ENDNOTES The thingmen , or hired body guard attending the court . 
OF KING CANUTE AND EARL ULF . 
Some spies went forward , others returned so that King Canute had news every day of their progress . 
He had also spies always in their army . 
King Canute himself , the day before Michaelmas , rode with a great retinue to Roeskilde . 
There his brother in law , Earl Ulf , had prepared a great feast for him . 
The earl was the most agreeable host , but the king was silent and sullen . 
The earl talked to him in every way to make him cheerful , and brought forward everything which he thought would amuse him but the king remained stern , and speaking little . 
At last the earl proposed to him a game at chess , which he agreed to and a chess board was produced , and they played together . 
He was the most powerful man in Denmark next to the king . 
Ulfnadson and their sons were Harald king of England , and Earl Toste , Earl Valthiof , Earl Morukare , and Earl Svein . 
Gyda was the name of their daughter , who was married to the English king Edward the Good . 
Thou didst not call me Ulf the coward , when I hastened to thy help while the Swedes were beating thee like a dog . 
The earl then went out , and went to bed . 
A little later the king also went to bed . 
The following morning while the king was putting on his clothes he said to his footboy , Go thou to Earl Ulf , and kill him . 
The lad went , was away a while , and then came back . 
The king said , Hast thou killed the earl ? I did not kill him , for he was gone to Saint Lucius' church . 
There was a man called Ivar White , a Norwegian by birth , who was the king's courtman and chamberlain . 
The king said to him , Go thou and kill the earl . 
Ivar went to the church , and in at the choir , and thrust his sword through the earl , who died on the spot . 
Then Ivar went to the king , with the bloody sword in his hand . 
The king said , Hast thou killed the earl ? I have killed him , says he . 
After the earl was killed the monks closed the church , and locked the doors . 
When that was told the king he sent a message to the monks , ordering them to open the church and sing high mass . 
King Canute rode down to his ships , and lay there till late in harvest with a very large army . 
OF KING OLAF AND THE SWEDES . 
King Olaf wished they should remain there with all the fleet , and see what King Canute would at last resolve to do . 
While King Olaf lay there , he had frequently conferences and consultations with his people . 
One night Egil Halson and Tofe Valgautson had the watch upon the king's ship . 
Tofe came from West Gautland , and was a man of high birth . 
While they sat on watch they heard much lamentation and crying among the people who had been taken in the war , and who lay bound on the shore at night . 
Tofe said it made him ill to hear such distress , and asked Egil to go with him , and let loose these people . 
When Egil afterwards fell sick the king for a long time would not visit him , until many people entreated it of him . 
It vexed Egil much to have done anything the king was angry at , and he begged his forgiveness . 
Tofe came , after entreaty , into reconciliation with the king , on condition that he should exhort his father Valgaut to come to the king . 
He was a heathen but after conversation with the king he went over to Christianity , and died instantly when he was baptized . 
King Olaf had now frequent conferences with his people , and asked advice from them , and from his chiefs , as to what he should determine upon . 
But there was no unanimity among them some considering that unadvisable which others considered highly serviceable and there was much indecision in their councils . 
King Canute had always spies in King Olaf's army , who entered into conversation with many of his men , offering them presents and favour on account of King Canute . 
Many allowed themselves to be seduced , and gave promises of fidelity , and to be King Canute's men , and bring the country into his hands if he came to Norway . 
This was apparent , afterwards , of many who at first kept it concealed . 
On this account he was very popular , although his generosity was principally shown to foreigners , and was greatest the greater distance they came from . 
Some pressed that with the first fair wind they should sail to the Sound , and so to Norway . 
They said the Danes would not dare to attack them , although they lay with so great a force right in the way . 
But the king was a man of too much understanding not to see that this was impracticable . 
Harek of Thjotta replied thus to the king's speech It is evident that I cannot travel on foot to Norway . 
I am old and heavy , and little accustomed to walking . 
The king said , Come along with us , Harek , and we shall carry thee when thou art tired of walking . 
Then King Olaf let everything be put in order for the journey . 
The people had their walking clothing and weapons , but their other clothes and effects they packed upon such horses as they could get . 
Then he sent off people to take his ships east to Calmar . 
There he had the vessels laid up , and the ships' apparel and other goods taken care of . 
Now when Harek came farther through the Sound , and past the fleet , he raised the mast , hoisted sail , and set up his gilded vane . 
The sail was white as snow , and in it were red and blue stripes of cloth interwoven . 
When the king's men saw the ship sailing in this state , they told the king that probably King Olaf had sailed through them . 
Harek went on his way , and never stopped till he came north to Halogaland , to his own house in Thjotta . 
KING OLAF'S COURSE FROM SVITHJOD . 
When King Olaf began his journey , he came first into Smaland , and then into West Gautland . 
He marched quietly and peaceably , and the country people gave him all assistance on his journey . 
Thus he proceeded until he came into Viken , and north through Viken to Sarpsborg , where he remained , and ordered a winter abode to be prepared . 
Then he gave most of the chiefs leave to return home , but kept the lendermen by him whom he thought the most serviceable . 
There were with him also all the sons of Arne Arnmodson , and they stood in great favour with the king . 
Geller Thorkelson , who the summer before had come from Iceland , also came there to the king , as before related . 
Sigvat the skald had long been in King Olaf's household , as before related , and the king made him his marshal . 
Sigvat had no talent for speaking in prose but in skaldcraft he was so practised , that the verses came as readily from his tongue as if he were speaking in usual language . 
When he came to Norway he proceeded straight to King Olaf , and found him at Sarpsborg . 
He presented himself before the king just as he was sitting down to table . 
The king looked at Sigvat and was silent . 
Then Sigvat sang Great king ! thy marshal is come home , No more by land or sea to roam , But by thy side Still to abide . 
Great king ! what seat here shall be take For the king's honour not his sake ? For all seats here To me are dear . 
Then was verified the old saying , that many are the ears of a king for King Olaf had heard all about Sigvat's journey , and that he had spoken with Canute . 
He says to Sigvat , I do not know if thou art my marshal , or hast become one of Canute's men . 
Sigvat said Canute , whose golden gifts display A generous heart , would have me stay , Service in his great court to take , And my own Norway king forsake . 
Two masters at a time , I said , Were one too many for men bred Where truth and virtue , shown to all , Make all men true in Olaf's hall . 
Then King Olaf told Sigvat to take his seat where he before used to sit and in a short time Sigvat was in as high favour with the king as ever . 
OF ERLING SKJALGSON AND HIS SONS . 
Erling Skjalgson and all his sons had been all summer in King Canute's army , in the retinue of Earl Hakon . 
Thorer Hund was also there , and was in high esteem . 
Now when King Canute heard that King Olaf had gone overland to Norway , he discharged his army , and gave all men leave to go to their winter abodes . 
There was then in Denmark a great army of foreigners , both English , Norwegians , and men of other countries , who had joined the expedition in summer . 
Erling Skjalgson went to Norway with his men , and received great presents from King Canute at parting but Thorer Hund remained behind in King Canute's court . 
They gave presents in money , besides , to many whose friendship could be purchased for King Canute . 
They received much assistance in their travels from Erling . 
In this way it came to pass that many turned their support to King Canute , promised him their services , and agreed to oppose King Olaf . 
Some did this openly , but many more concealed it from the public . 
King Olaf heard this news , for many had something to tell him about it and the conversation in the court often turned upon it . 
No pleasure in heaven , As we know full well , To the traitor is given , His soul is his hell . 
With those who give it's not the same , From them we have no faith to claim 'Tis we are wrong , if we give way . 
OF KING OLAF'S PRESENTS AT YULE . 
King Olaf gave a great feast at Yule , and many great people had come to him . 
He had , according to his custom , collected there with great care the valuable presents he was to make on New Year's eve . 
A sword the skald would gladly take , And use it for his master's sake In favour once he stood , And a sword has stained in blood . 
The king took a sword of which the handle was twisted round with gold , and the guard was gold mounted , and gave it to him . 
It was a valuable article but the gift was not seen without envy , as will appear hereafter . 
When he came to the Uplands the lendermen and the richest bondes invited him to be their guest , and thus lightened his expenses . 
There was a man called Bjorn who was of Gautland family , and a friend and acquaintance of Queen Astrid , and in some way related to her . 
She had given him farm management and other offices in the upper part of Hedemark . 
He had also the management of Osterdal district . 
Bjorn was not in esteem with the king , nor liked by the bondes . 
It happened in a hamlet which Bjorn ruled over , that many swine and cattle were missing therefore Bjorn ordered a Thing to be called to examine the matter . 
There was a man called Raud who dwelt in Osterdal . 
His wife was called Ragnhild and his sons , Dag and Sigurd , were men of great talent . 
They were present at the Thing , made a reply in defence of the Osterdal people , and removed the accusation from them . 
They denied it , and the Thing closed . 
Soon after King Olaf , with his retinue , came to guest quarters in the house of bailiff Bjorn . 
The matter which had been before the Thing was then complained of to the king and Bjorn said that Raud's sons appeared to him to have committed these thefts . 
A messenger was sent for Raud's sons and when they appeared before the king he said they had not at all the appearance of thieves , and acquitted them . 
Thereupon they invited the king , with all his retinue , to a three days' entertainment at their father's and although Bjorn dissuaded him from it , the king went . 
At Raud's there was a very excellent feast . 
The king asked Raud what people he and his wife were . 
The king then remembered both their families . 
He found that father and sons were men of understanding , and asked them what they could do . 
Sigurd said he could interpret dreams , and determine the time of the day although no heavenly bodies could be seen . 
The king made trial of his art , and found it was as Sigurd had said . 
Dag stated , as his accomplishment , that he could see the misdeeds and vices of every man who came under his eye , when he chose to observe him closely . 
The king told him to declare what faults of disposition he saw in the king himself . 
Dag mentioned a fault which the king was sensible he really had . 
Then the king asked what fault the bailiff Bjorn had . 
Dag also told the king the places where the king should go after leaving them . 
When the king departed from Raud's house he was accompanied on the way , and presented with friendly gifts and Raud's sons remained with the king . 
The king went first to Bjorn's , and found there that all Dag had told him was true . 
Upon which he drove Bjorn out of the country and he had to thank the queen that he preserved life and limbs . 
Thorer , a son of Olver of Eggja , a stepson of Kalf Arnason , and a sister's son of Thorer Hund , was a remarkably handsome man , stout and strong . 
He invited the king and his retinue home to him to a feast . 
The king accepted the invitation , went to Thorer's , and was well received . 
The entertainment was very splendid they were excellently treated , and all that was set before the guests was of the best that could be got . 
But Dag said little about it . 
The king called Dag to him to have a private conversation together , and spoke to him about many things . 
Afterwards the king turned the conversation on Thorer , what an excellent man Thorer was , and what a superb feast he had made for them . 
Dag answered but little to this , but agreed it was true what the king said . 
The king then asked Dag what disposition or faith he found in Thorer . 
Dag replied that he must certainly consider Thorer of a good disposition , if he be really what most people believe him to be . 
The king told him to answer direct what he was asked , and said that it was his duty to do so . 
Dag replies , Then thou must allow me to determine the punishment if I disclose his faith . 
The king replied that he would not submit his decision to another man , but again ordered Dag to reply to what he asked . 
Dag replies , The sovereign's order goes before all . 
I find this disposition in Thorer , as in so many others , that he is too greedy of money . 
The king Is he then a thief , or a robber ? He is neither . 
What is he then ? To win money he is a traitor to his sovereign . 
He has taken money from King Canute the Great for thy head . 
This ended their conference , and the king was very wroth . 
He went up before the table , and laid his hands upon it . 
The king asked , How old a man art thou , Thorer ? He answered , I am eighteen years old . 
A stout man thou art for those years , and thou hast been fortunate also . 
Then the king took his right hand , and felt it towards the elbow . 
Thorer said , Take care , for I have a boil upon my arm . 
The king held his hand there , and felt there was something hard under it . 
Hast thou not heard , said he , that I am a physician ? Let me see the boil . 
As Thorer saw it was of no use to conceal it longer , he took off the ring and laid it on the table . 
The king asked if that was the gift of King Canute . 
Thorer replied that he could not deny it was . 
The king ordered him to be seized and laid in irons . 
Kalf came up and entreated for mercy , and offered money for him , which also was seconded by many but the king was so wroth that nobody could get in a word . 
He said Thorer should suffer the doom he had prepared for himself . 
Thereupon he ordered Thorer to be killed . 
This deed was much detested in the Uplands , and not less in the Throndhjem country , where many of Thorer's connections were . 
Kalf took the death of this man much to heart , for he had been his foster son in childhood . 
Grjotgard Olverson , Thorer's brother , and the eldest of the brothers , was a very wealthy man , and had a great troop of people about him . 
He lived also at this time in Hedemark . 
When the king heard of this disturbance , he had inquiry made about Grjotgard's haunts , and found out that he had taken up night quarters not far from where the king was . 
King Olaf set out in the night time , came there about day dawn , and placed a circle of men round the house in which Grjotgard was sleeping . 
Grjotgard and his men , roused by the stir of people and clash of arms , ran to their weapons , and Grjotgard himself sprang to the front room . 
He asked who commanded the troop and it was answered him , King Olaf was come there . 
Grjotgard asked if the king would hear his words . 
The king , who stood at the door , said that Grjotgard might speak what he pleased , and he would hear his words . 
Grjotgard said , I do not beg for mercy and at the same moment he rushed out , having his shield over his head , and his drawn sword in his hand . 
It was not so much light that he could see clearly . 
He struck his sword at the king but Arnbjorn ran in , and the thrust pierced him under his armour into his stomach , and Arnbjorn got his deathwound . 
Grjotgard was killed immediately , and most of his people with him . 
After this event the king turned back to the south to Viken . 
KING OLAF SENDS FOR HIS SHIPS AND GOODS . 
Now when the king came to Tunsberg he sent men out to all the districts , and ordered the people out upon a levy . 
He had but a small provision of shipping , and there were only bondes' vessels to be got . 
From the districts in the near neighbourhood many people came to him , but few from any distance and it was soon found that the people had turned away from the king . 
The news came to Norway that King Canute had assembled an immense armament through all Denmark , with which he intended to conquer Norway . 
When this became known the people were less willing to join King Olaf , and he got but little aid from the bondes . 
The king's men often spoke about this among themselves . 
The king held meetings with the men of the court , and sometimes House things with all his people , and consulted with them what they should , in their opinion , undertake . 
I may be blamed , accused of fear But treachery , not faith , rules here . 
Men may retire who long have shown Their faith and love , and now alone Retire because they cannot save This is no treachery in the brave . 
HAREK OF THJOTTA BURNS GRANKEL AND HIS MEN . 
it happened in Halogaland that Harek of Thjotta remembered how Asmund Grankelson had plundered and beaten his house servants . 
After this deed Harek returned home , and sat quietly in his farm . 
Asmund was with King Olaf when he heard of it therefore there was nobody in Halogaland to sue Harek for mulct for this deed , nor did he offer any satisfaction . 
KING CANUTE'S EXPEDITION TO NORWAY . 
Canute the Great collected his forces , and went to Limfjord . 
The bondes came down from the upper country to hold a Thing with Canute , who was everywhere in that country accepted as king . 
Then he placed men over the districts , and took hostages from the bondes , and no man opposed him . 
King Olaf was in Tunsberg when Canute's fleet sailed across the mouth of the fjord . 
Canute sailed northwards along the coast , and people came to him from all the districts , and promised him fealty . 
He lay a while in Egersund , where Erling Skjalgson came to him with many people , and King Canute and Erling renewed their league of friendship . 
Among other things , Canute promised Erling the whole country between Stad and Rygiarbit to rule over . 
Then King Canute proceeded and , to be short in our tale , did not stop until he came to Throndhjem , and landed at Nidaros . 
In Throndhjem he called together a Thing for the eight districts , at which King Canute was chosen king of all Norway . 
King Canute gave them great fiefs , and also right to the Lapland trade , and presented them besides with great gifts . 
He enriched all men who were inclined to enter into friendly accord with him both with fiefs and money , and gave them greater power than they had before . 
In like manner he led his son Hardaknut to the high seat at his side , gave him the title of king , and therewith the whole Danish dominion . 
Einar placed a great value on these promises , and , in return , promised the greatest fidelity . 
Einar's chiefship began anew with this . 
There was a man by name Thorarin Loftunga , an Icelander by birth , and a great skald , who had been much with the kings and other great chiefs . 
He was now with King Canute the Great , and had composed a flock , or short poem , in his praise . 
Thorarin then composed a stave as a refrain , which he inserted in the poem , and also augmented it with several other strophes or verses . 
This was the refrain Canute protects his realm , as Jove , Guardian of Greece , his realm above . 
King Canute rewarded him for the poem with fifty marks of silver . 
The poem was called the Headransom . 
The men of Adger on the coast Tremble to see this mighty host The guilty tremble as they spy The victor's fleet beneath the sky . 
The sight surpasses far the tale , As glacing in the sun they sail The king's ship glittering all with gold , And splendour there not to be told . 
Round Lister many a coal black mast Of Canute's fleet is gliding past . 
And now through Eger sound they ride , Upon the gently heaving tide . 
And all the sound is covered o'er With ships and sails , from shore to shore , A mighty king , a mighty host , Hiding the sea on Eger coast . 
And peaceful men in haste now hie Up Hiornagla hill the fleet to spy , As round the ness where Stad now lies Each high stemmed ship in splendour flies . 
Nor seemed the voyage long , I trow , To warrior on the high built bow , As o'er the ocean mountains riding The land and hill seem past him gliding . 
With whistling breeze and flashing spray Past Stein the gay ships dashed away In open sea , the southern gale Filled every wide out bellying sail . 
Still on they fly , still northward go , Till he who conquers every foe , The mighty Canute , came to land , Far in the north on Throndhjem's strand . 
There this great king of Jutland race , Whose deeds and gifts surpass in grace All other kings , bestowed the throne Of Norway on his sister's son . 
Of Denmark land of shadowy vales , In which the white swan trims her sails . 
OF THE MESSENGERS SENT BY KING OLAF FOR HIS SHIPS . 
The men whom King Olaf had sent eastwards to Gautland after his ships took with them the vessels they thought the best , and burnt the rest . 
He was then at Tunsberg . 
He went eastward across the mouths of the fjords to Sarpsborg , and held a Thing there , and , as elsewhere , the country was surrendered to him under oath of fidelity . 
King Canute then returned south to Denmark , after having conquered Norway without stroke of sword , and he ruled now over three kingdoms . 
Peace now he gives us fast and sure , Since Norway too is made secure By him who oft , in days of yore , Glutted the hawk and wolf with gore . 
OF KING OLAF IN HIS PROCEEDINGS . 
King Olaf sailed with his ships out to Tunsberg , as soon as he heard that King Canute had turned back , and was gone south to Denmark . 
He then made himself ready with the men who liked to follow him , and had then thirteen ships . 
Afterwards he sailed out along Viken but got little money , and few men , as those only followed him who dwelt in islands , or on outlying points of land . 
The king landed in such places , but got only the money and men that fell in his way and he soon perceived that the country had abandoned him . 
He proceeded on according to the winds . 
This was in the beginning of winter . 
Then the king sailed with his fleet from the East , and lay a while in Egersund . 
Both parties heard of each other now , and Erling assembled all the men he could . 
, the king left the harbour as soon as day appeared . 
With a good but rather strong gale he sailed northwards past Jadar . 
The weather was rainy , with dark flying clouds in the sky . 
The king's ship passed by Jadar at a great rate but thereafter turned in towards the land , intending to run up the fjords to gather men and money . 
Erling Skjalgson perceived this , and sailed after him with a great force and many ships . 
He saw also that there would be a great want of men , if he should go against the whole of Erling's fleet when it was assembled . 
He hailed from ship to ship the orders to let the sails gently sink , and to unship the booms and outriggers , which was done . 
When Erling saw this he calls out to his people , and orders them to get on more sail . 
Ye see , says he , that their sails are diminishing , and they are getting fast away from our sight . 
He took the reef out of the sails of his ship , and outsailed all the others immediately for Erling was very eager in his pursuit of King Olaf . 
King Olaf then steered in towards the Bokn fjord , by which the ships came out of sight of each other . 
Thereafter the king ordered his men to strike the sails , and row forwards through a narrow sound that was there , and all the ships lay collected within a rocky point . 
Then all the king's men put on their weapons . 
Erling sailed in through the sound , and observed nothing until the whole fleet was before him , and he saw the king's men rowing towards him with all their ships at once . 
Erling and his crew let fall the sails , and seized their weapons but the king's fleet surrounded his ship on all sides . 
Then the fight began , and it was of the sharpest but soon the greatest loss was among Erling's men . 
Erling stood on the quarter deck of his ship . 
He had a helmet on his head , a shield before him , and a sword in his hand . 
Sigvat the skald had remained behind in Viken , and heard the tidings . 
He was a great friend of Erling , had received presents from him , and had been at his house . 
His little war ship side by side With the king's fleet , the fray will bide . 
Now sword to sword the fight is raging , Which Erling with the king is waging . 
Then Erling's men began to fall , and at the same moment his ship was carried by boarding , and every man of his died in his place . 
The king himself was amongst the foremost in the fray . 
In Tungur sound , on Jadar shore , The decks were slippery with red gore Warm blood was dropping in the sound , Where the king's sword was gleaming round . 
The brave king boarded , onward cheered , And north of Tungur the deck was cleared . 
Erling alone , the brave , the stout , Cut off from all , yet still held out High on the stern a sight to see In his lone ship alone stood he . 
Then Erling was attacked both from the forecastle and from the other ships . 
Erling defended himself so manfully , that no example is known of one man having sustained the attack of so many men so long . 
Yet he never tried to get away , nor asked for quarter . 
So says Sigvat Skjalg's brave son no mercy craves , The battle's fury still he braves The spear storm , through the air sharp singing , Against his shield was ever ringing . 
So Erling stood but fate had willed His life off Bokn should be spilled . 
No braver man has , since his day , Past Bokn fjord ta'en his way . 
When Olaf went back a little upon the fore deck he saw Erling's behaviour and the king accosted him thus Thou hast turned against me to day , Erling . 
He replies , The eagle turns his claws in defence when torn asunder . 
Sigvat the skald tells thus of these words of Erling Erling . 
The king struck him in the chin with the sharp point of his battle axe , and said , I shall mark thee as a traitor to thy sovereign . 
Then Aslak Fitiaskalle rose up , and struck Erling in the head with an axe , so that it stood fast in his brain , and was instantly his death wound . 
Thus Erling lost his life . 
The king said to Aslak , May all ill luck attend thee for that stroke for thou hast struck Norway out of my hands . 
The king replied that he should have it . 
Thereafter the king ordered every man to return to his ship , and to get ready to depart as fast as he could . 
We will not plunder the slain , says he , and each man may keep what he has taken . 
None of Erling's sons were there , and the bondes therefore made no attack , and the king sailed on his way northwards . 
But the bondes took Erling's corpse , adorned it , and carried it with them home to Sole , and also the bodies of all who had fallen . 
In truth no man I ever knew Was , in all ways , so firm and true Free from servility and pride , Honoured by all , yet thus he died . 
OF THE INSURRECTION OF AGDER DISTRICT . 
Of Erling's sons some at that time were north in Throndhjem , some in Hordaland , and some in the Fjord district , for the purpose of collecting men . 
When Erling's death was reported , the news came also that there was a levy raising in Agder , Hordaland , and Rogaland . 
Forces were raised and a great army assembled , under Erling's sons , to pursue King Olaf . 
When King Olaf retired from the battle with Erling he went northward through the sounds , and it was late in the day . 
The far descended Erling's life Too soon has fallen but , in the strife He met the luck they well deserve Who from their faith and fealty swerve . 
Afterwards the king sailed with his fleet along the land northwards , and got certain tidings of the bondes assembling an army . 
There were many chiefs and lendermen at this time with King Olaf , and all the sons of Arne . 
Thou soon hadst made a good Yule feast For greedy wolf there in the East Where stone and spear were flying round , There thou wast still the foremost found . 
The people suffered in the strife When noble Erling lost his life , And north of Utstein many a speck Of blood lay black upon the deck . 
The king , 'tis clear , has been deceived , By treason of his land bereaved And Agder now , whose force is great . 
Will rule o'er all parts of the state . 
King O af continued his voyage until he came north of Stad , and brought up at the Herey Isles . 
Here he heard the news that Earl Hakon had a great war force in Throndhjem , and thereupon the king held a council with his people . 
Kalf Arnason urged much to advance to Throndhjem , and fight Earl Hakon , notwithstanding the difference of numbers . 
Many others supported this advice , but others dissuaded from it , and the matter was left to the king's judgment . 
Afterwards the king went into Steinavag , and remained there all night but Aslak Fitiaskalle ran into Borgund , where he remained the night , and where Vigleik Arnason was before him . 
In the morning , when Aslak was about returning on board , Vigleik assaulted him , and sought to avenge Erling's murder . 
Some of the king's court men , who had been home all summer , joined the king here . 
When they were quite ready , and were leaving the harbour , the bonde army sailed north around Thiotande with twenty five ships . 
The king then steered inside of Nyrfe Island , and inside of Hundsver . 
The king took this news very angrily , but could not delay his voyage on account of the enemy and he sailed in by Vegsund and Skor . 
There some of his people left him among others , Kalf Arnason , with many other lendermen and ship commanders , who all went to meet Earl Hakon . 
King Olaf , however , proceeded on his way without stopping until he came to Todar fjord , where he brought up at Valdal , and landed from his ship . 
He had then five ships with him , which he drew up upon the shore , and took care of their sails and materials . 
Then he set up his land tent upon a point of land called Sult , where there are pretty flat fields , and set up a cross near to the point of land . 
King Olaf answers , That we must try , bonde , and it will go as God pleases . 
Come here in the morning with your yoke , and come yourself with it , and let us then see . 
When we come to the sloping precipice , what chance there may be , and if we cannot devise some means of coming over it with horses and people . 
Now when day broke the bondes drove down with their yokes , as the king had told them . 
The clothes and weapons were packed upon horses , but the king and all the people went on foot . 
There are now two crosses erected upon the bank on which the king sat . 
Then the king mounted a horse , and rode without stopping up the valley , until he came to the precipice . 
Then the king asked Bruse if there was no summer hut of cattle herds in the neighbourhood , where they could remain . 
The king ordered his land tent to be set up , and remained there all night . 
In the morning the king ordered them to drive to the urd , and try if they could get across it with the waggons . 
They drove there , and the king remained in the meantime in his tent . 
Then the king ordered that he should set all the kettles on the fire , and put a little bit of meat in each kettle , which was done . 
Then the king went there , and made the sign of the cross over each kettle , and told them to make ready the meat . 
The king then went to the urd called Skerfsurd , where a road should be cleared . 
When the king came all his people were sitting down , quite worn out with the hard labour . 
Bruse said , I told you , sire , but you would not believe me , that we could make nothing of this urd . 
The king laid aside his cloak , and told them to go to work once more at the urd . 
The king , after this , went down again to where the meat was , which place is called Olaf's Rock . 
Bruse said there was such a sheeling , called Groningar but that nobody could pass the night there on account of witchcraft , and evil beings who were in the sheeling . 
Then the king said they must get ready for their journey , as he wanted to be at the sheeling for the night . 
The king thanked God for this blessing , and gave the bondes who drove down again to their valley some rations of food , but remained himself all night in the sheeling . 
Then the king proceeded over the mountains , and came to a farm called Einby , where he remained for the night . 
, including the year both he and Svein were in the country , and this year we have now been telling about . 
It was , namely , a little past Yule when the king left his ships and took to the land , as before related . 
When the king had been one night at Lesjar he proceeded on his journey with his men , day by day first into Gudbrandsdal , and from thence out to Redemark . 
When the king had ended his speech , his men prepared themselves for their departure . 
The king , with the troop that followed him , turned east to Eid forest . 
Bjorn the marshal got leave to go home , and he went to his farm , and many others of the king's friends returned home with his permission to their farms . 
KING OLAF PROCEEDS TO RUSSIA . 
There dwelt a rich and powerful man in that part called Sigtryg , who had a son , Ivar , who afterwards became a distinguished person . 
King Olaf accepted this offer thankfully , and remained there . 
It is related that King Olaf was distinguished all his life for pious habits , and zeal in his prayers to God . 
CAUSES OF THE REVOLT AGAINST KING OLAF . 
So says Sigvat They who on viking cruises drove With gifts of red gold often strove To buy their safety but our chief Had no compassion for the thief . 
He made the bravest lose his head Who robbed at sea , and pirates led And his just sword gave peace to all , Sparing no robber , great or small . 
The country's guardian showed his might When oft he made his just sword bite Through many a viking's neck and hair , And never would the guilty spare . 
King Magnus' father , I must say , Did many a good deed in his day . 
Olaf the Thick was stern and stout , Much good his victories brought out . 
This was the origin of the hostility of the great men of the country to King Olaf , that they could not bear his just judgments . 
He again would rather renounce his dignity than omit righteous judgment . 
Besides , King Canute offered great sums of money , and the great chiefs were corrupted by this , and by his offering them greater dignities than they had possessed before . 
The inclinations of the people , also , were all in favour of Earl Hakon , who was much beloved by the country folks when he ruled the country before . 
Earl Hakon had sailed with his fleet from Throndhjem , and gone south to More against King Olaf , as before related . 
The earl steered in through Todar fjord to Valdal , where the king had laid up his ships on the strand . 
Jokul made these verses upon it Mine is the lot to take the helm Which Olaf owned , who owned the realm From Sult King Olaf's ship to steer . 
My girl will never hear the tidings , Till o'er the wild wave I come riding In Olaf's ship , who loved his gold , And lost his ships with wealth untold . 
We may here shortly tell what happened a long time after . 
that this Jokul fell in with King Olaf's men in the island of Gotland , and the king ordered him to be taken out to be beheaded . 
A willow twig accordingly was plaited in with his hair , and a man held him fast by it . 
As the king saw it would be his death wound , he ordered them to let him lie with it . 
Jokul raised himself up , and he sang My hard fate I mourn , Alas ! my wounds burn , My red wounds are gaping , My life blood escaping . 
My wounds burn sore But I suffer still more From the king's angry word , Than his sharp biting sword . 
Kalf Arnason went with Earl Hakon north to Throndhjem , and the earl invited him to enter into his service . 
Kalf said he would first go home to his farm at Eggja , and afterwards make his determination and Kalf did so . 
When he came home he found his wife Sigrid much irritated and she reckoned up all the sorrow inflicted on her , as she insisted , by King Olaf . 
First , he had ordered her first husband Olver to be killed . 
And now since , says she , my two sons and thou thyself , Kalf , wert present when they were cut off , and which I little expected from thee . 
Kalf says , it was much against his will that Thorer was killed . 
I offered money penalty for him , says he and when Grjotgard was killed I lost my brother Arnbjorn at the same time . 
She replies , It is well thou hast suffered this from the king for thou mayest perhaps avenge him , although thou wilt not avenge my injuries . 
Thou sawest how thy foster son Thorer was killed , with all the regard of the king for thee . 
Sigrid sent word to the earl how far she had brought the matter with Kalf . 
As soon as the earl heard of it , he sent a message to Kalf that he should come to the town to him . 
Kalf did not decline the invitation , but came directly to Nidaros , and waited on the earl , who received him kindly . 
In their conversation it was fully agreed upon that Kalf should go into the earl's service , and should receive great fiefs . 
After this Kalf returned home , and had the greater part of the interior of the Throndhjem country under him . 
Kalf Arnason went to King Canute as soon as he arrived in England . 
Bjarne Gullbrarskald tells of this King Olaf eastward o'er the sea To Russia's monarch had to flee Our Harald's brother ploughed the main , And furrowed white its dark blue plain . 
Whilst thou the truth I still will say , Nor fear nor favour can me sway Thou to King Canute hastened fast , As soon as Olaf's luck was past . 
Now when Kalf came to King Canute the king received him particularly well , and had many conversations with him . 
Among other things , King Canute , in a conference , asked Kalf to bind himself to raise a warfare against King Olaf , if ever he should return to the country . 
Kalf lent his ear to what the king proposed , for he had a great desire to attain this high dignity and this conclusion was settled upon between King Canute and Kalf . 
Kalf then prepared to return home , and on his departure he received splendid presents from King Canute . 
That Norway should be thine , 'tis said , The London king a promise made . 
Kalf thereafter returned to Norway , and came to his farm . 
OF THE DEATH OF EARL HAKON . 
, and went to England , and when he came there was well received by the king . 
In autumn he made ready for his return , but it was somewhat late before he was clear for sea but at last he set out . 
Of his voyage all that can be told is , that the vessel was lost , and not a man escaped . 
Some relate that the vessel was seen north of Caithness in the evening in a heavy storm , and the wind blowing out of Pentland Firth . 
Bjorn the marshal sat at home on his farm after his parting from King Olaf . 
Bjorn was a celebrated man therefore it was soon reported far and wide that he had set himself down in quietness . 
Earl Hakon and the other chiefs of the country heard this also , and sent persons with a verbal message to Bjorn . 
When the messengers arrived Bjorn received them well and afterwards Bjorn called them to him to a conference , and asked their business . 
He who was their foreman presented to Bjorn the salutations of King Canute , Earl Hakon , and of several chiefs . 
Therefore ye ought to accept , with thanks , the friendship which the king offers you and it would become you better if you offered money even in mulct to obtain it . 
When he had ended his speech Bjorn replies , I wish now to sit quietly at home , and not to enter into the service of any chief . 
And he displayed to him a large bag full of English money . 
Bjorn was a man fond of money , and self interested and when he saw the silver he was silent , and reflected with himself what resolution he should take . 
It seemed to him much to abandon his property , as he did not think it probable that King Olaf would ever have a rising in his favour in Norway . 
When Bjorn heard the tidings that Earl Hakon was missing he soon altered his mind , and was much vexed with himself for having been a traitor in his fidelity to King Olaf . 
He thought , now , that he was freed from the oath by which he had bound himself to Earl Hakon . 
It seemed to Bjorn that now there was some hope that King Olaf might again come to the throne of Norway if he came back , as the country was without a head . 
Bjorn therefore immediately made himself ready to travel , and took some men with him . 
Then the king inquired much about the news from Norway . 
Bjorn tells him that Earl Hakon was missing , and the kingdom left without a head . 
Bjorn told King Olaf much news from Norway , and very anxious the king was to know , and asked much how his friends had kept their fidelity towards him . 
Bjorn answered , it had gone differently with different people . 
The king replies , Stand up , Bjorn' thou shalt be reconciled with me but reconcile thy perjury with God . 
I can see that but few men in Norway have held fast by their fealty , when such men as thou art could be false to me . 
But true it is also that people sit in great danger when I am distant , and they are exposed to the wrath of my enemies . 
After King Olaf came to Russia he was very thoughtful , and weighed what counsel he now should follow . 
But yet the thought lay deep in his soul to recover again , if there should be any opportunity for him , his kingdom in Norway . 
Such cares he had often on his mind , and he left his cause to God , praying that He would do what to Him seemed best . 
These thoughts he turned over in his mind , and knew not what to resolve upon for he saw how evidently dangerous that was which his inclination was most bent upon . 
It is the glory of a king to be victorious over his enemies , and it is a glorious death to die in battle . 
Or art thou doubtful if thou hast right on thy side in the strife with thine enemies ? Thou must have no doubts , and must not conceal the truth from thyself . 
Thou must go back to thy country , and God will give open testimony that the kingdom is thine by property . 
When the king awoke he thought he saw the man's shoulders going out . 
When the king told his determination to his people they all gave it their approbation joyfully . 
OF KING OLAF'S HEALING POWERS . 
The boy's mother went to Queen Ingegerd , with whom she was acquainted , and showed her the lad . 
The queen said she knew no remedy for it . 
The king tells her he is not a physician , and bids her go to where there were physicians . 
Then the king took the lad , laid his hands upon his neck , and felt the boil for a long time , until the boy made a very wry face . 
Then the king took a piece of bread , laid it in the figure of the cross upon the palm of his hand , and put it into the boy's mouth . 
KING OLAF BURNS THE WOOD SHAVINGS ON HIS HAND FOR HIS SABBATH BREACH . 
It happened one Sunday that the king sat in his highseat at the dinner table , and had fallen into such deep thought that he did not observe how time went . 
In one hand he had a knife , and in the other a piece of fir wood from which he cut splinters from time to time . 
The king looked at him when he heard this , and then it came into his mind what he was doing on the Sunday . 
When King Olaf had resolved on his return home , he made known his intention to King Jarisleif and Queen Ingegerd . 
Then King Olaf told them of his dream adding , that he believed it to be God's will and providence that it should be so . 
Now when they found he was determined on travelling to Norway , they offered him all the assistance to his journey that he would accept from them . 
The king thanked them in many fine words for their good will and said that he accepted from them , with no ordinary pleasure , what might be necessary for his undertaking . 
OF KING OLAF'S JOURNEY FROM RUSSIA . 
, King Olaf made himself ready and had about of his men with him . 
King Jarisleif gave him all the horses , and whatever else he required and when he was ready he set off . 
King Jarisleif and Queen Ingegerd parted from him with all honour and he left his son Magnus behind with the king . 
This gave the king and his men good hope of the issue of their journey . 
King Onund received his brother in law's message in the kindest manner , and went to him according to his invitation . 
Astrid also came to King Olaf , with the men who had attended her and great was the joy on all sides at this meeting . 
The Swedish king also received his brother in law King Olaf with great joy when they met . 
OF THE LENDERMEN IN NORWAY . 
Now we must relate what , in the meantime , was going on in Norway . 
The spring thereafter Thorer rigged a long ship which belonged to him , and manned it with his house servants . 
He summoned the bondes , demanded a levy from the most northern Thing district , collected in this way a great many people , and proceeded with this force southwards . 
Harek of Thjotta had also collected a great number of people and in this expedition many people of consequence took a part , although these two were the most distinguished . 
They made it known publicly that with this war force they were going against King Olaf , to defend the country against him , in case he should come from the eastward . 
He immediately waited on King Canute , who received him well and joyfully . 
King Canute replies , that now the circumstances were altered . 
Thou shalt be lenderman with great fiefs , and be so much more raised above other lendermen as thou art more able than they . 
Einar accordingly went to sea when he was ready but only came to Norway after the events were ended which took place there during that summer . 
OF THE CHIEF PEOPLE IN NORWAY . 
The chiefs in Norway had their spies east in Svithjod , and south in Denmark , to find out if King Olaf had come from Russia . 
The whole people were called out to a levy , and a great army was collected . 
All those now named had sworn an oath to King Canute to deprive Olaf of life , if opportunity should offer . 
Now when it was reported in Norway that King Olaf was come from the East to Svithjod , his friends gathered together to give him aid . 
Many other brave men were there also and there were in all men when they proceeded from the uplands , and went eastward with their force through Eid forest to Vermaland . 
From thence they went eastward through the forests to Svithjod and made inquiry about King Olaf's proceedings . 
OF KING OLAF'S PROCEEDINGS IN SVITHJOD . 
, and had sent spies from thence to Norway . 
But he had firmly resolved within himself , as before stated , to go into Norway and he asked King Onund what strength King Onund would give him to conquer his kingdom . 
King Onund replied , that the Swedes were little inclined to make an expedition against Norway . 
King Olaf accepted this offer , and got ready for his march . 
Queen Astrid , and Ulfhild the king's daughter , remained behind in Svithjod . 
KING OLAF ADVANCES TO JARNBERALAND . 
Just as King Olaf began his journey the men came to him whom the Swedish king had given , in all men , and the king took the road the Swedes showed him . 
He advanced upwards in the country to the forests , and came to a district called Jarnberaland . 
They made out together men . 
There was a man called Dag , who is said to have been a son of King Hring , who fled the country from King Olaf . 
This Hring , it is said further , had been a son of Dag , and grandson of Hring , Harald Harfager's son . 
Thus was Dag King Olaf's relative . 
Both Hring the father , and Dag the son , had settled themselves in Svithjod , and got land to rule over . 
When this message came to Dag it suited his inclination well , for he had a great desire to go to Norway and get the dominion his family had ruled over . 
He was not slow , therefore , to reply , and promised to come . 
Dag was a quick speaking , quick resolving man , mixing himself up in everything eager , but of little understanding . 
He collected a force of almost men , with which he joined King Olaf . 
Thereafter King Olaf led his army through forests , often over desert moors , and often over large lakes and they dragged , or carried the boats , from lake to lake . 
On the way a great many followers joined the king , partly forest settlers , partly vagabonds . 
The places at which he halted for the night are since called Olaf's Booths . 
He proceeded without any break upon his journey until he came to Jamtaland , from which he marched north over the keel or ridge of the land . 
The men spread themselves over the hamlets , and proceeded , much scattered , so long as no enemy was expected but always , when so dispersed , the Northmen accompanied the king . 
Dag proceeded with his men on another line of march , and the Swedes on a third with their troop . 
There were two men , the one called Gauka Thorer , the other Afrafaste , who were vagabonds and great robbers , and had a company of thirty men such as themselves . 
These two men were larger and stronger than other men , and they wanted neither courage nor impudence . 
This counsel was approved of by their comrades , and accordingly they went to the road on which King Olaf was to pass . 
When they came there they presented themselves to the king , with their followers , fully armed . 
They saluted him , and he asked what people they were . 
They told their names , and said they were natives of the place and told their errand , and that they wished to go with the king . 
The king said , it appeared to him there was good help in such folks . 
And I have a great inclination , said he , to take such but are ye Christian men ? Gauka Thorer replies , that he is neither Christian nor heathen . 
I and my comrades have no faith but on ourselves , our strength , and the luck of victory and with this faith we slip through sufficiently well . 
The king replies , A great pity it is that such brave slaughtering fellows did not believe in Christ their Creator . 
Follow me then , and I will advance you to great dignities but if ye will not do so , return to your former vocation . 
Afrafaste said he would not take on Christianity , and he turned away . 
They joined accordingly the rear with other forest men , and followed the troops . 
Thereafter the king proceeded west up to the keel ridge of the country . 
Many people rode before the king and many after , and he himself rode so that there was a free space around him . 
He was silent , and nobody spoke to him , and thus he rode a great part of the day without looking much about him . 
The king replied , full of thought , Wonderful things have come into my mind a while ago . 
As I just now looked over Norway , out to the west from the mountains , it came into my mind how many happy days I have had in that land . 
The bishop replied that this was a holy vision , and very remarkable . 
OF THE MIRACLE ON THE CORN LAND . 
The king told his people to proceed carefully , and not destroy the corn to the bondes . 
There dwelt a bonde there called Thorgeir Flek , who had two sons nearly grown up . 
Thorgeir received the king and his people well , and offered all the assistance in his power . 
The king was pleased with his offer , and asked Thorgeir what was the news of the country , and if any forces were assembled against him . 
if they are intended against you , or going elsewhere . 
Then he complained to the king of the damage and waste done him by the people breaking and treading down all his corn fields . 
The king said it was ill done to bring upon him any loss . 
And it was with the lads as the king foretold . 
OF THE BAPTISM OF THE VAGABOND FOREST MEN . 
Thereafter the army advanced to Staf , and when the king reached Staf's moor he halted . 
There he got the certain information that the bondes were advancing with an army against him , and that he might soon expect to have a battle with them . 
Then the brothers Gauka Thorer and Afrafaste presented themselves to the king , and offered again to follow him . 
The king asked if they had now taken baptism . 
Gauka Thorer replied that they had not . 
Then the king ordered them to accept baptism and the true faith , or otherwise to go away . 
They stepped aside to talk with each other on what resolution they should take . 
Gauka Thorer replies , If I go into battle I will give my help to the king , for he has most need of help . 
They all agreed to this , and went to the king , and said they would receive baptism . 
Then they were baptized by a priest , and the baptism was confirmed by the bishop . 
The king then took them into the troop of his court men , and said they should fight under his banner in the battle . 
On the right hand of my banner shall be Dag Hringson , with all the men he brought to our aid and he shall have the second banner . 
We will have all our men distinguished by a mark , so as to be a field token upon their helmets and shields , by painting the holy cross thereupon with white colour . 
When the king had finished speaking , the army arrayed , and arranged itself according to the king's orders . 
Thus they had got but few people . 
Now the king asked his men their counsel , and what they now should do . 
Fin Arnason answered thus to the king's question I will say what should be done , if I may advise . 
or old men , fathers , mothers , and other connections . 
We had then God's honour to defend . 
Now , however , it is more in my power to spare those who have dealt ill with me , than those whom God hated . 
I will , therefore , that my people proceed gently , and commit no ravage . 
Now we will spread out far through the inhabited places , and take with us all the men we can find able to carry arms . 
Then men will also capture cattle for slaughter , or whatever else of provision that can serve for food but not do any other ravage . 
But I will see willingly that ye kill any spies of the bonde army ye may fall in with . 
Thereafter he called his skalds , and ordered them to go in within the shield defence . 
There were Thormod Kolbrunarskald , Gissur Gulbraskald , a foster son of Hofgardaref , and Thorfin Mun . 
Then said Thormod to Gissur , Let us not stand so close together , brother , that Sigvat the skald should not find room when he comes . 
He must stand before the king , and the king will not have it otherwise . 
The king heard this , and said , Ye need not sneer at Sigvat , because he is not here . 
Often has he followed me well , and now he is praying for us , and that we greatly need . 
True it was what we spoke about , that no man who would speak with you could find room for Sigvat . 
Thereafter the skalds talked among themselves that it would be well to compose a few songs of remembrance about the events which would soon be taking place . 
Then Gissur sang From me shall bende girl never hear A thought of sorrow , care , or fear I wish my girl knew how gay We arm us for our viking fray . 
And Thorfin Mun made another song , viz . 
Dark is the cloud of men and shields , Slow moving up through Verdal's fields These Verdal folks presume to bring Their armed force against their king . 
On ! let us feed the carrion crow , Give her a feast in every blow And , above all , let Throndhjem's hordes Feel the sharp edge of true men's swords . 
And Thorrood sang The whistling arrows pipe to battle , Sword and shield their war call rattle . 
Up ! brave men , up ! the faint heart here Finds courage when the danger's near . 
Up ! brave men , up ! with Olaf on ! With heart and hand a field is won . 
One viking cheer ! then , stead of words , We'll speak with our death dealing swords . 
These songs were immediately got by heart by the army . 
OF KING OLAF'S GIFTS FOR THE SOULS OF THOSE WHO SHOULD BE SLAIN . 
Thereafter the king made himself ready , and marched down through the valley . 
The men who follow us to battle , and fall therein , will all be saved together with ourself . 
This night the king lay with his army around him on the field , as before related , and lay long awake in prayer to God , and slept but little . 
Towards morning a slumber fell on him , and when he awoke daylight was shooting up . 
The king thought it too early to awaken the army , and asked where Thormod the skald was . 
Thormod was at hand , and asked what was the king's pleasure . 
Sing us a song , said the king . 
Thormod raised himself up , and sang so loud that the whole army could hear him . 
Hrolf of the bow ! Har of the blow ! Up in your might ! the day is breaking 'Tis Hild's game that bides your waking . 
The king thanked him for the pleasure , and took a gold ring that weighed half a mark and gave it him . 
Thormod thanked the king for the gift , and said , We have a good king but it is not easy to say how long the king's life may be . 
It is my prayer , sire , that thou shouldst never part from me either in life or death . 
The king replies , We shall all go together so long as I rule , and as ye will follow me . 
Thy skald shall never be a craven , Though he may feast the croaking raven , The warrior's fate unmoved I view , To thee , my king , I'll still be true . 
Hild's game is the battle , from the name of the war goddess Hild . 
KING OLAF COMES TO STIKLESTAD . 
King O af led his army farther down through the valley , and Dag and his men went another way , and the king did not halt until he came to Stiklestad . 
There he saw the bonde army spread out all around and there were so great numbers that people were going on every footpath , and great crowds were collected far and near . 
They also saw there a troop which came down from Veradal , and had been out to spy . 
They came so close to the king's people that they knew each other . 
It was Hrut of Viggia , with thirty men . 
The king ordered his pursuivants to go out against Hrut , and make an end of him , to which his men were instantly ready . 
The Icelanders were easily invited to this , and went out immediately with a few men against Hrut , and killed him and the troop that followed him . 
Then he placed his army in battle array , and raised his banner . 
Dag was not yet arrived with his men , so that his wing of the battle array was wanting . 
Then the king said the Upland men should go forward in their place , and raise their banner there . 
It appears to me advisable , says the king , that Harald my brother should not be in the battle , for he is still in the years of childhood only . 
None is more willing than I am to give the bondes a blow so I shall go with my comrades . 
The brisk young skald should gaily go Into the fray , give blow for blow , Cheer on his men , gain inch by inch , And from the spear point never flinch . 
Harald got his will , and was allowed to be in the battle . 
ENDNOTES Hrut means a young ram . 
A bonde , by name Thorgils Halmason , father to Grim the Good , dwelt in Stiklestad farm . 
Thorgils offered the king his assistance , and was ready to go into battle with him . 
The king thanked him for the offer . 
I would rather , says the king , thou shouldst not be in the fight . 
Do us rather the service to take care of the people who are wounded , and to bury those who may fall , when the battle is over . 
Should it happen , bonde , that I fall in this battle , bestow the care on my body that may be necessary , if that be not forbidden thee . 
Thorgils promised the king what he desired . 
We have , says he , many men , and good and although the bondes may have a somewhat larger force than we , it is fate that rules over victory . 
This I will make known to you solemnly , that I shall not fly from this battle , but shall either be victorious over the bondes , or fall in the fight . 
I will pray to God that the lot of the two may befall me which will be most to my advantage . 
Let us at the first make the hardest onset , for then the consequences are soon seen . 
When the king had ended his speech it was received with loud applause , and the one encouraged the other . 
Thord Folason carried King Olaf's banner . 
So says Sigvat the skald , in the death song which he composed about King Olaf , and put together according to resurrection saga Thord . 
I have heard , by Olaf's side , Where raged the battle's wildest tide , Moved on , and , as by one accord Moved with them every heart and sword . 
The banner of the king on high , Floating all splendid in the sky From golden shaft , aloft he bore , The Norsemen's rallying point of yore . 
King Olaf was armed thus He had a gold mounted helmet on his head and had in one hand a white shield , on which the holy cross was inlaid in gold . 
In his other hand he had a lance , which to the present day stands beside the altar in Christ Church . 
In his belt he had a sword , which was called Hneiter , which was remarkably sharp , and of which the handle was worked with gold . 
He had also a strong coat of ring mail . 
High rose the fight and battle heat , the clear blood ran beneath the feet Of Swedes , who from the East came there , In Olaf's gain or loss to share . 
He sat down himself , and the people sat around him in a widespread crowd . 
He leaned down , and laid his head upon Fin Arnason's knee . 
Then Fin awakened the king , and said that the bonde army advanced against them . 
And when you awoke me , I was come to the highest step towards heaven . 
Fin replies , This dream does not appear to me so good as it does to thee . 
unless it be the mere want of sleep that has worked upon thee . 
ENDNOTES Fey means doomed to die . 
He was so tall that none stood higher than up to his shoulders very handsome he was in countenance , and had beautiful fair hair . 
The man went before the king , saluted him , and asked if the king would accept his services . 
The king asked his name and family , also what countryman he was . 
Then the king asked Arnljot if he was a Christian or not . 
The king replies , If thou wilt put faith in me thou must also put faith in what I will teach thee . 
Thou must believe that Jesus Christ has made heaven and earth , and all mankind , and to him shall all those who are good and rightly believing go after death . 
CONCERNING THE ARMY COLLECTED IN NORWAY . 
But the force , as it usually happens in so great a multitude , consisted of many different sorts of people . 
There were many lendermen , and a great many powerful bondes but the great mass consisted of labourers and cottars . 
The chief strength of this army lay in the Throndhjem land , and it was the most warm in enmity and opposition to the king . 
He was now also in the bondes' army , spoke often before the people , and urged them much to insurrection against King Olaf . 
He did the same to Olaf the Swedish king . 
No man would be so imprudent as to remove them to churches , for they are all robbers and evil doers . 
When he had ended his speech it was hailed with the loudest applause , and all unanimously agreed to act according to his recommendation . 
The lendermen who had come together appointed meetings with each other , and consulted together how they should draw up their troops , and who should be their leader . 
Kalf Arnason said that Harek of Thjotta was best fitted to be the chief of this army , for he was descended from Harald Harfager's race . 
Harek replies , that the men are best suited for this who are in the flower of their age . 
Then Kalf Arnason desired to speak . 
It is highly necessary , says he , that this business we have on hand do not turn out a mockery and child work , now that an army is collected . 
Yet I know there are men in his ranks who would secure my life and peace if I would seek it . 
When Kalf had ended they all concurred in what he proposed , and all would do what Kalf thought of advantage . 
All desired Kalf to be the leader of the army , and to give each what place in it he chose . 
HOW THE LENDERMEN SET UP THEIR BANNERS . 
Kalf Arnason then raised his banner , and drew up his house servants along with Harek of Thjotta and his men . 
This part of the array was long and thick , and in it were drawn up the Throndhjem people and the Halogalanders . 
There was a man called Thorstein Knarrarsmid , who was a merchant and master ship carpenter , stout and strong , very passionate , and a great manslayer . 
Thorer and his men received Thorstein , and he went into their ranks . 
OF THE PREPARATIONS OF THE BONDES . 
Kalf's speech was received with loud applause , and shouts of encouragement were heard through the whole army . 
OF THE KING'S AND THE BONDES' ARMIES . 
Thereafter the bondes' army advanced to Stiklestad , where King Olaf was already with his people . 
Kalf and Harek went in front , at the head of the army under their banners . 
At last the king saw Dag and his men approaching . 
It is said that the army of the bondes was not less on this day than a hundred times a hundred men . 
The foemen , more than two to one , The victory by numbers won And this alone , as I've heard say , Against King Olaf turned the day . 
MEETING OF THE KING AND THE BONDES . 
Kalf replied , Many things come to pass differently from what may appear seemly . 
You parted from us so that it was necessary to seek peace with those who were behind in the country . 
Now each must remain where he stands but if I might advise , we should be reconciled . 
Then Fin , his brother , answered , This is to be observed of Kalf , that when he speaks fairly he has it in his mind to do ill . 
The king answered , It may be , Kalf , that thou art inclined to reconciliation but , methinks , the bondes do not appear so peaceful . 
Then Thorgeir of Kviststad said , You shall now have such peace as many formerly have received at your hands , and which you shall now pay for . 
BEGINNING OF THE BATTLE OF STIKLESTAD . 
The clank of steel , the bowstrings' twang , The sounds of battle , loudly rang And bowman hurried on advancing , Their bright helms in the sunshine glancing . 
The lendermen urged their men , and forced them to advance . 
Sigvat speaks of this Midst in their line their banner flies , Thither the stoutest bonde hies But many a bonde thinks of home , And many wish they ne'er had come . 
Then the bonde army pushed on from all quarters . 
Soon there was a great fall of men in the battle . 
Many were down on both sides . 
In the first onset fell Arnljot Gelline , Gauka Thorer , and Afrafaste , with all their men , after each had killed a man or two , and some indeed more . 
Sigvat the skald tells of this Loud was the battle storm there , Where the king's banner flamed in air . 
The king beneath his banner stands , And there the battle he commands . 
Clear as the serpent's eye his look No Throndhjem man could stand , but shook Beneath its glance , and skulked away , Knowing his king , and cursed the day . 
The combat became fierce , and the king went forward in the fray . 
For vengeance on his Throndhjem foes , On their best men he dealt his blows He who knew well death's iron play , To his deep vengeance gave full sway . 
King Olaf fought most desperately . 
across the face , cut off the nose piece of his helmet , and clove his head down below the eyes so that they almost fell out . 
Thord had got his death wound , and fell beneath the banner . 
There also fell Thorfin Mun , and also Gissur Gullbrarskald , who was attacked by two men , of whom he killed one , but only wounded the other before he fell . 
It happened then , as before related , that the sun , although the air was clear , withdrew from the sight , and it became dark . 
The day on which fell out this fight Was marked by dismal dusky light , This from the East I heard the end Of our great king it did portend . 
They turned , however , to that quarter where the men of Hordaland and Rogaland stood . 
Many of these circumstances took place at the same time , and some happened a little earlier , and some a little later . 
On the one side of Kalf Arnason stood his two relations , Olaf and Kalf , with many other brave and stout men . 
Kalf was a son of Arnfin Arnmodson , and a brother's son of Arne Arnmodson . 
On the other side of Kalf Arnason stood Thorer Hund . 
King Olaf hewed at Thorer Hund , and struck him across the shoulders but the sword would not cut , and it was as if dust flew from his reindeer skin coat . 
Thorer struck at the king , and they exchanged some blows but the king's sword would not cut where it met the reindeer skin , although Thorer was wounded in the hands . 
Against his king his sword to wield , Leaping across the shield on shield Which fenced the king round in the fight , Shows the dog's courage brave , not bright . 
The king said to Bjorn the marshal , Do thou kill the dog on whom steel will not bite . 
Bjorn turned round the axe in his hands , and gave Thorer a blow with the hammer of it on the shoulder so hard that he tottered . 
The king at the same moment turned against Kalf and his relations , and gave Olaf his death wound . 
Thorer Hund struck his spear right through the body of Marshal Bjorn , and killed him outright and Thorer said , It is thus we hunt the bear . 
Thorstein Knarrarsmid struck at King Olaf with his axe , and the blow hit his left leg above the knee . 
Fin Arnason instantly killed Thorstein . 
The king after the wound staggered towards a stone , threw down his sword , and prayed God to help him . 
Then Thorer Hund struck at him with his spear , and the stroke went in under his mail coat and into his belly . 
Then Kalf struck at him on the left side of the neck . 
But all are not agreed upon Kalf having been the man who gave him the wound in the neck . 
These three wounds were King Olaf's death and after the king's death the greater part of the forces which had advanced with him fell with the king . 
At Stiklestad thou wast the head With flying banners onwards led Thy bonde troops , and still fought on , Until he fell the much mourned one . 
To Russia first his steps he bent , To serve his master still intent And now besides his king he fell , A noble death for skalds to tell . 
Thorer's name was Hund the dog and a play upon Thorer Hund's name was intended by the skald . 
L. Bjorn , the marshal's name , signifies a bear . 
BEGINNING OF DAG HRINGSON'S ATTACK . 
Dag Hringson still kept up the battle , and made in the beginning so fierce an assault that the bondes gave way , and some betook themselves to flight . 
There a great number of the bondes fell , and these lendermen , Erlend of Gerde and Aslak of Finey and the banner also which they had stood under was cut down . 
This onset was particularly hot , and was called Dag's storm . 
The bondes pursued only a short way for their leaders soon returned back to the field of battle , where they had their friends and relations to look after . 
KING OLAF'S MIRACLE SHOWN TO THORER HUND . 
Thorer Hund went to where King Olaf's body lay , took care of it , laid it straight out on the ground , and spread a cloak over it . 
Kalf Arnason searched for his brothers who had fallen , and found Thorberg and Fin . 
Kalf did not regard it , but ordered Fin and Thorberg to be carried away from the field . 
When their wounds were examined they were found not to be deadly , and they had fallen from fatigue , and under the weight of their weapons . 
Thereafter Kalf tried to bring his brothers down to a ship , and went himself with them . 
The wounded were taken home to the farms , so that every house was full of them and tents were erected over some . 
OF THE BONDES OF VERADAL . 
It may also be that they will linger in the valley if they have nothing to be frightened for , and then they would not proceed very gently in the inhabited country . 
The bondes made many words about this , urging the chiefs to advance directly , and kill those who had escaped . 
Now when the chiefs talked over this matter among themselves , they thought there was much truth in what the bondes said . 
They resolved , therefore , that Thorer Hund should undertake this expedition through Veradal , with men of his own troops . 
Then Thorer said he did not care to pursue them up through the mountains , and he returned down the valley again , and they did not kill many of them this time . 
The bondes then returned to their homes , and the following day Thorer , with his people , went to their ships . 
The part of the king's men who were still on their legs concealed themselves in the forests , and some got help from the people . 
OF THE KING'S BROTHER , HARALD SIGURDSON . 
They went secretly over the mountains , and through the waste forests , and came out in Jamtaland . 
Harald Sigurdson was fifteen years old when King Olaf fell . 
In Jamtaland Harald found Ragnvald Brusason and they went both east to King Jarisleif in Russia , as is related in the Saga of Harald Sigurdson . 
Thormod was also severely wounded , and retired , as all the others did , back from where there was most danger of life , and some even fled . 
What is thy name ? He called himself Kimbe . 
Thormod Wast thou in the battle , too ? I was with the bondes , which was the best side , says he . 
And art thou wounded any way ? says Thormod . 
A little , said Kimbe . 
And hast thou been in the battle too ? Thormod replied , I was with them who had the best . 
Art thou wounded ? says Kimbe . 
Not much to signify , replies Thormod . 
As Kimbe saw that Thormod had a gold ring on his arm , he said , Thou art certainly a king's man . 
Give me thy gold ring , and I will hide thee . 
The bondes will kill thee if thou fallest in their way . 
Thormod says , Take the ring if thou canst get it I have lost that which is more worth . 
Kimbe went off , and Thormod sat down in the barn , and listened to what people were saying . 
The conversation was mostly about what each had seen in the battle , and about the valour of the combatants . 
Some praised most King Olaf's courage , and some named others who stood nowise behind him in bravery . 
But I have heard that some were there Who in the fight themselves would spare Though , in the arrow storm , the most Had perils quite enough to boast . 
Thormod went out , and entered into a chamber apart , in which there were many wounded men , and with them a woman binding their wounds . 
There was fire upon the floor , at which she warmed water to wash and clean their wounds . 
Thormod sat himself down beside the door , and one came in , and another went out , of those who were busy about the wounded men . 
This is the reason why I feel The slash and thrust of Danish steel And pale and faint , and bent with pain , Return from yonder battle plain . 
Then Thormod stood up and went in towards the fire , and stood there awhile . 
The young woman said to him , Go out , man , and bring in some of the split firewood which lies close beside the door . 
He went out and brought in an armful of wood , which he threw down upon the floor . 
The arrow drift o'ertook me , girl , A fine ground arrow in the whirl Went through me , and I feel the dart Sits , lovely girl , too near my heart . 
The girl said , Let me see thy wound , and I will bind it . 
She brought some of this now to Thormod , and told him to eat of it . 
He replied , Take it away , I have no appetite for my broth . 
Now said Thormod , Cut so deep in that thou canst get at the iron with the tongs , and give me the tongs and let me pull . 
She did as he said . 
Then Thormod took a gold ring from his hand , gave it to the nurse woman , and told her to do with it what she liked . 
It is a good man's gift , said he King Olaf gave me the ring this morning . 
When he saw that , he said , The king has fed us well . 
I am fat , even at the heart roots and so saying he leant back , and was dead . 
And with this ends what we have to say about Thormod . 
OF SOME CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE BATTLE . 
King Olaf fell on Wednesday , the th of July . 
It was near mid day when the two armies met , and the battle began before half past one , and before three the king fell . 
The darkness continued from about half past one to three also . 
The people's sovereign took the field , The people clove the sovereign's shield . 
Of all the chiefs that bloody day , Dag only came out of the fray . 
And he composed these Such mighty bonde power , I ween , With chiefs or rulers ne'er was seen . 
It was the people's mighty power That struck the king that fatal hour . 
When such a king , in such a strife , By his own people lost his life , Full many a gallant man must feel The death wound from the people's steel . 
But the men who had power , and had relations on the field , cared little for this , but removed their remains to the churches , and took care of their burial . 
A MIRACLE ON A BLIND MAN . 
They had light and water with them . 
Thereafter they went home again to the farmhouse . 
It is told of a blind man who was poor , that a boy attended him and led him . 
They went out around the farm to seek a lodging , and came to the same empty house , of which the door was so low that they had almost to creep in . 
Now when the blind man had come in , he fumbled about the floor seeking a place where he could lay himself down . 
He had a hat on his head , which fell down over his face when he stooped down . 
He said he first got his sight when he was coming out of a little ruinous hut which was all wet inside . 
I groped in the water , said he , and rubbed my eyes with my wet hands . 
He told where the hut stood . 
, Thorer Hund came down the valley of Veradal to Stiklestad and many people , both chiefs and bondes , accompanied him . 
Then Thorer went to his ships , and sailed down the fjord , and the bonde army dispersed , carrying with them all the wounded men who could bear to be removed . 
They hastened , therefore , to take the body to a place where it would be safe . 
Then Thorgils sent some of his men up to the town to Bishop Sigurd , to say that they were come with the king's body . 
It was now quite dark . 
Thorgils and his people now rowed up into the river past the town , and landed at a place called Saurhlid , above the town . 
They were ready with all this before break of day , when they returned to their vessel , went immediately out of the river , and proceeded on their way home to Stiklestad . 
OF THE BEGINNING OF KING SVEIN ALFIFASON'S GOVERNMENT . 
Svein , a son of King Canute , and of Alfifa , a daughter of Earl Alfrin , had been appointed to govern Jomsborg in Vindland . 
Svein repaired to Denmark , and took many people with him from thence , and also Earl Harald and many other people of consequence attended him . 
Grandest was he , That all could see Then , one by one , Each following man More splendour wore Than him before . 
Then Svein proceeded to Norway , and his mother Alfifa was with him and he was taken to be king at every Law thing in the country . 
He had already come as far as Viken at the time the battle was fought at Stiklestad , and King Olaf fell . 
Svein continued his journey until he came north , in autumn , to the Throndhjem country and there , as elsewhere , he was received as king . 
King Svein introduced new laws in many respects into the country , partly after those which were in Denmark , and in part much more severe . 
No man must leave the country without the king's permission or if he did , his property fell to the king . 
Whoever killed a man outright , should forfeit all his land and movables . 
If any one was banished the country , and all heritage fell to him , the king took his inheritance . 
The bondes were bound to build all the houses the king required upon his farms . 
Every man who rowed upon the sea to fish should pay the king five fish as a tax , for the land defence , wherever he might come from . 
Every ship that went out of the country should have stowage reserved open for the king in the middle of the ship . 
Every man , foreigner or native , who went to Iceland , should pay a tax to the king . 
And to all this was added , that Danes should enjoy so much consideration in Norway , that one witness of them should invalidate ten of Northmen . 
When these laws were promulgated the minds of the people were instantly raised against them , and murmurs were heard among them . 
Ye were promised peace and justice , and now ye have got oppression and slavery for your great treachery and crime . 
Nor was it very easy to contradict them , as all men saw how miserable the change had been . 
They very soon , however , complained of King Svein and his mother Alfifa got much of the blame of all that was against their desire . 
Then the truth , with regard to Olaf , became evident to many . 
many in the Throndhjem land began to declare that Olaf was in reality a holy man , and his sanctity was confirmed by many miracles . 
Many began to make promises and prayers to King Olaf in the matters in which they thought they required help , and many found great benefit from these invocations . 
Some in respect of health , others of a journey , or other circumstances in which such help seemed needful . 
Einar Tambaskelfer was come home from England to his farm , and had the fiefs which King Canute had given him when they met in Throndhjem , and which were almost an earldom . 
Einar had not been in the strife against King Olaf , and congratulated himself upon it . 
He remembered that King Canute had promised him the earldom over Norway , and at the same time remembered that King Canute had not kept his promise . 
He was accordingly the first great person who looked upon King Olaf as a saint . 
OF THE SONS OF ARNE . 
Thorberg Arnason was much more temperate in his discourse than Fin but yet he hastened away , and went home to his farm . 
Kalf gave the two brothers a good long ship , with full rigging and other necessaries , and a good retinue . 
Therefore they went home to their farms , and sat quietly at home . 
Arne Arnason lay long ill of his wounds , but got well at last without injury of any limb , and in winter he proceeded south to his farm . 
All the brothers made their peace with King Svein , and sat themselves quietly down in their homes . 
there was much talk about King Olaf's sanctity , and there was a great alteration in the expressions of all people concerning him . 
People began then to turn their reproaches against the men who had principally excited opposition to the king and on this account Bishop Sigurd in particular was accused . 
He got so many enemies , that he found it most advisable to go over to England to King Canute . 
Then the Throndhjem people sent men with a verbal message to the Uplands , to Bishop Grimkel , desiring him to come north to Throndhjem . 
King Olaf had sent Bishop Grimkel back to Norway when he went east into Russia , and since that time Grimkel had been in the Uplands . 
KING OLAF THE SAINT'S REMAINS DISINTERRED . 
Bishop Grimkel went to Einar Tambaskelfer , who received him joyfully . 
They talked over many things , and , among others , of the important events which had taken place in the country and concerning these they were perfectly agreed . 
, and was well received by all the community . 
He inquired particularly concerning the miracles of King Olaf that were reported , and received satisfactory accounts of them . 
Thereupon the bishop sent a verbal message to Stiklestad to Thorgils and his son Grim , inviting them to come to the town to him . 
They did not decline the invitation , but set out on the road immediately , and came to the town and to the bishop . 
They related to him all the signs that had presented themselves to them , and also where they had deposited the king s body . 
The bishop sent a message to Einar Tambaskelfer , who came to the town . 
Then the bishop and Einar had an audience of the king and Alfifa , in which they asked the king's leave to have King Olaf's body taken up out of the earth . 
The king gave his permission , and told the bishop to do as he pleased in the matter . 
At that time there were a great many people in the town . 
It was then the opinion of many that the bishop should proceed to have the king buried in the earth at Clement's church and it was so done . 
When Bishop Grimkel came to King Olaf's opened coffin , there was a delightful and fresh smell . 
Thereupon the bishop uncovered the king's face , and his appearance was in no respect altered , and his cheeks were as red as if he had but just fallen asleep . 
Thereupon King Svein , and all the chiefs who were at the place , went out to see King Olaf's body . 
Then said Alfifa , People buried in sand rot very slowly , and it would not have been so if he had been buried in earth . 
Afterwards the bishop took scissors , clipped the king's hair , and arranged his beard for he had had a long beard , according to the fashion of that time . 
Then the bishop had live coals put into a pan , blessed it , cast incense upon it , and then laid King Olaf's hair on the fire . 
When all the incense was burnt the bishop took the hair out of the fire , and showed the king and the other chiefs that it was not consumed . 
Now Alfifa asked that the hair should be laid upon unconsecrated fire but Einar Tambaskelfer told her to be silent , and gave her many severe reproaches for her unbelief . 
The coffin was covered with costly cloth , and stood under a gold embroidered tent . 
Many kinds of miracles were soon wrought by King Olaf's holy remains . 
In the sand hill where King Olaf's body had lain on the ground a beautiful spring of water came up and many human ailments and infirmities were cured by its waters . 
Things were put in order around it , and the water ever since has been carefully preserved . 
There was first a chapel built , and an altar consecrated , where the king's body had lain but now Christ's church stands upon the spot . 
It is said that Olaf's church stands on the spot on which the empty house had stood in which King Olaf's body had been laid for the night . 
The place over which the holy remains of King Olaf were carried up from the vessel is now called Olaf's Road , and is now in the middle of the town . 
The bishop adorned King Olaf's holy remains , and cut his nails and hair for both grew as if he had still been alive . 
Around his bier , Good people hear The small bells ring Over the king , Or great bell toll And living soul Not one can tell Who tolls the bell . 
By day and night The altar light Olaf did so , And all men know In heaven he From sin sits free . 
And crowds do come , The deaf and dumb , Cripple and blind , Sick of all kind , Cured to be On bended knee And off the ground Rise whole and sound . 
To Olaf pray To eke thy day , To save thy land From spoiler's hand . 
God's man is he To deal to thee Good crops and peace Let not prayer cease . 
, Thou tellest on , Forgetting none . 
King Olaf's greatest miracles are clearly written down , although they occurred somewhat later . 
OF KING OLAF'S AGE AND REIGN . 
Sigvat the skald tells this For fifteen winters o'er the land King Olaf held the chief command , Before he fell up in the North His fall made known to us his worth . 
No worthier prince before his day In our North land e'er held the sway , Too short he held it for our good All men wish now that he had stood . 
Saint Olaf was thirty five years old when he fell , according to what Are Frode the priest says , and he had been in twenty pitched battles . 
May God be merciful , I pray , To him for he ne'er shunned his fray . 
We have now related a part of King Olaf's story , namely , the events which took place while he ruled over Norway also his death , and how his holiness was manifested . 
Now shall we not neglect to mention what it was that most advanced his honour . 
This was his miracles but these will come to be treated of afterwards in this book . 
King Svein , the son of Canute the Great , ruled over Norway for some years but was a child both in age and understanding . 
His mother Alfifa had most sway in the country and the people of the country were her great enemies , both then and ever since . 
The chiefs began to hold consultations and conferences with each other , and the leader of these was Einar Tambaskelfer . 
It was likewise the case with Kalf Arnason , who began to find into what errors he had been drawn by King Canute's persuasion . 
He felt that he had been deceived , and therefore messages passed between the brothers Kalf , Fin , Thorberg , and Arne , and they renewed their family friendship . 
Then all the brothers , the sons of Arne , held a meeting , and consulted with each other . 
After this Kalf returned to the north again but when he came to Frekeysund , King Svein was lying in the sound before him . 
Kalf replies , I have done enough , if not too much , when I fought against my own countrymen to increase the power of the Canute family . 
Thereupon Kalf rowed away to the north until he came home to Eggja . 
None of these Arnasons appeared at this levy to accompany the king . 
When Trygve came from the west he landed first on the coast of Hordaland , and when he heard King Svein had gone south he went the same way to Rogaland . 
The battle , which took place on a Sunday , was great and severe . 
People tell that Trygve threw spears with both hands at once . 
So my father , said he , taught me to celebrate mass . 
In this battle King Trygve fell , and many of his men with him but some fled , and some received quarter and their lives . 
'Twas Sunday morn , when Svein calls out , Stem to stem your vessels bind The raven a mid day feast smells out , And he comes croaking up the wind . 
After this battle King Svein ruled the country for some time , and there was peace in the land . 
he passed in the south parts of the country . 
OF THE COUNSELS OF EINAR TAMBASKELFER AND KALF ARNASON . 
Einar Tambaskelfer and Kalf Arnason had this winter meetings and consultations between themselves in the merchant town . 
Then there came a messenger from King Canute to Kalf Arnason , with a message to send him three dozen axes , which must be chosen and good . 
Kalf replies , I will send no axes to King Canute . 
Tell him I will bring his son Svein so many , that he shall not think he is in want of any . 
Nidaros , or Throndhjem , is usually called merely the merchant town . 
OF EINAR TAMBASKELFER AND KALF ARNASON'S JOURNEY . 
Einar Tambaskelfer and Kalf Arnason made themselves ready for a journey , with a great retinue of the best and most select men that could be found in the Throndhjem country . 
He was to become Kalf Arnason's foster son and Kalf should be bound to do all that Magnus might think necessary for extending his dominion , and making it more independent than formerly . 
SAGA OF MAGNUS THE GOOD . 
Magnus reigned from A. D. to , when he died . 
During the last year of his reign his half brother Harald Sigurdson was his co regent . 
The history of Magnus is treated in Agrip . 
in Fornmannasogur , part vi . 
, and in Knytlinga Saga . 
, Sigvat , Thjodulf , Bjarne Gullbrarskald , Thorgeir Flek , Od Kikinaskald . 
MAGNUS OLAFSON'S JOURNEY FROM THE WEST . 
After Yule Magnus Olafson began his journey from the East from Novgorod to Ladoga , where he rigged out his ships as soon as the ice was loosened in spring . 
This generous youth , who scatters gold , Norway's brave son , but ten years old , Is rigging ships in Russia's lake , His crown , with friend's support , to take . 
In spring Magnus sailed from the East to Svithjod . 
So says Arnor The young sword stainer called a Thing , Where all his men should meet their king Heroes who find the eagle food Before their lord in arms stood . 
And now the curved plank of the bow Cleaves the blue sea the ocean plough By grey winds driven across the main , Reaches Sigtuna's grassy plain . 
Here it is related that when King Magnus and his fellow travellers sailed from the East to Svithjod , they brought up at Sigtuna . 
Emund Olafson was then king in Svithjod . 
Queen Astrid , who had been married to King Olaf the Saint , was also there . 
She received very gladly and well her stepson King Magnus , and summoned immediately a numerous Thing of Swedes at a place called Hangtar . 
It is my great duty to give him aid towards this expedition for he is my stepson , as is well known to all , both Swedes and Norwegians . 
Astrid replies , All men who wish to be thought of true courage must not be deterred by such considerations . 
Astrid succeeded so far with words and encouragement that many men determined to go with her , and follow King Magnus to Norway . 
And with the Swedes no wiser plan , To bring out every brave bold man , Could have been found , had Magnus been The son himself of the good queen . 
With help of Christ , she hoped to bring Magnus to be the land's sole king , As Harald was , who in his day Obtained o'er all the upper sway . 
And glad are we so well she sped , The people's friend is now their head And good King Magnus always shows How much be to Queen Astrid owes . 
Such stepmothers as this good queen In truth are very rarely seen And to this noble woman's praise The skald with joy his song will raise . 
King Magnus set out on his journey from Sigtuna with a great force , which he had gathered in Svithjod . 
They proceeded through Svithjod on foot to Helsingjaland . 
So says Arnor , the earl's skald And many a dark red Swedish shield Marched with thee from the Swedish field . 
The country people crowded in , To help Saint Olaf's son to win And chosen men by thee were led , Men who have stained the wolf's tongue red . 
Each milk white shield and polished spear Came to a splendid gathering there . 
Magnus Olafson went from the East through Jamtaland over the keel ridge of the country and came down upon the Throndhjem district , where all men welcomed the king with joy . 
So says Arnor , the earls' skald He who the eagle's talons stains Rushed from the East on Throndhjem's plains The terror of his plumed helm Drove his pale foemen from the realm . 
The lightning of thy eye so near , Great king ! thy foemen could not bear , Scattered they fled their only care If thou their wretched lives wilt spare . 
, where he was joyfully received . 
and when the bondes met at the Thing , Magnus was taken to be king over the whole land , as far as his father Olaf had possessed it . 
Then the king selected a court , and named lendermen , and placed bailiffs and officers in all domains and offices . 
Immediately after harvest King Magnus ordered a levy through all Throndhjem land , and he collected men readily and thereafter he proceeded southwards along the coast . 
At the Thing held here the kings of Norway were chosen and proclaimed . 
It was held to be the proper Thing for settling disputes between kings in Norway . 
King Svein Alfifason was staying in South Hordaland when he heard this news of war . 
The king's speech was not very long , and was not received with much approbation by the bondes . 
It is the same with those who say nothing at all . 
But as to those who promise to help us , there are not more than every other man and that force will avail us little against King Magnus . 
As soon as the king had made known this resolution all his men followed it , turned their ship's bows , and hoisted sail . 
King Svein sailed eastward along the land , and then set right over to Denmark without delay , and Hardaknut received his brother Svein very kindly . 
At their first meeting Hardaknut offered King Svein to divide the kingdom of Denmark with him , which offer King Svein accepted . 
KING MAGNUS'S JOURNEY TO NORWAY . 
King Magnus proceeded eastward to the end of the country , and was received as king throughout the whole land , and the country people were rejoiced at his arrival . 
DEATH OF KING CANUTE THE GREAT AND HIS SON SVEIN . 
King Svein , Canute's son , went to Denmark , as before related , and took part in the government with his brother Hardaknut . 
In the same autumn King Canute the Great died in England , the th November , forty years old , and was buried at Winchester . 
He had been king of Denmark for twenty seven years , and over Denmark and England together twenty four years , and also over Norway for seven years . 
King Canute's son Harald was then made king in England . 
King Svein , Alfifa's son , died in Denmark . 
Thiodolf the skald made these lines concerning King Magnus Through Sweden's dirty roads the throng Followed the king in spearmen strong . 
Svein doth fly , in truth afraid , And partly by his men betrayed Flying to Denmark o'er the sea , He leaves the land quite clear to thee . 
Kalf ! It was you who showed the way To our young king , the battle lover , From Russia to his father's sway You showed the way , and brought him over . 
, and Hardaknut over Denmark . 
RECONCILIATION BETWEEN HARDAKNUT AND KING MAGNUS . 
Twelve of the principal men in each kingdom swore to the kings that this treaty should be observed , so long as any one of them was in life . 
Then the kings separated , and each returned home to his kingdom and the treaty was kept as long as both lived . 
Then came also Alfhild , King Magnus's mother , to the court , and the king received her with the greatest affection , and showed her great respect . 
But it went with Alfhild , as it does with many who come to power and honour , that pride keeps pace with promotion . 
She was ill pleased that Queen Astrid was treated with more respect , had a higher seat , and more attention . 
Sigvat the skald had gone to Rome , where he was at the time of the battle of Stiklestad . 
He was on his way back from the South when he heard tidings of King O af's fall , which gave him great grief . 
He then sang these lines One morning early on a hill , The misty town asleep and still , Wandering I thought upon the fields . 
Must love be paid for by our grief ? The price seems great for joy so brief . 
But the brave man who knows no fear Drops for his king a silent tear , And feels , perhaps , his loss as deep As those who clamour when they weep . 
Sigvat came home to Norway to the Throndhjem country , where he had a farm and children . 
He came from the South along the coast in a merchant vessel , and as they lay in Hillarsund they saw a great many ravens flying about . 
When Sigvat came north to the town of Throndhjem King Svein was there before him . 
He invited Sigvat to stay with him , as Sigvat had formerly been with his father King Canute the Great but Sigvat said he would first go home to his farm . 
Perhaps it was I thought , just then , How noble Olaf with his men , In former days , I oft have seen In manly games upon this green . 
I was at Rome , as men know well Who saw me there , and who can tell That there in danger I was then The truth I need not hide from men . 
Sigvat was ill at ease in his home . 
One day he went out and sang While Olaf lived , how smiled the land ! Mountain and cliff , and pebbly strand . 
All Norway then , so fresh , so gay , On land or sea , where oft I lay . 
But now to me all seems so dready , All black and dull of life I'm weary Cheerless to day , cheerless to morrow Here in the North we have great sorrow . 
Early in winter Sigvat went westward over the ridge of the country to Jamtaland , and onwards to Helsingjaland , and came to Svithjod . 
He went immediately to Queen Astrid , and was with her a long time , and was a welcome guest . 
He was also with her brother King Emund , and received from him ten marks of proved silver , as is related in the song of Canute . 
Sigvat always inquired of the merchants who traded to Novgorod if they could tell him any news of Magnus Olafson . 
OF KING MAGNUS'S FIRST ARRIVAL IN SVITHJOD . 
Immediately after Magnus Olafson came to Svithjod from Russia , Sigvat met him at Queen Astrid's house , and glad they all were at meeting . 
Sigvat then sang Thou art come here , prince , young and bold ! Thou art come home ! With joy behold Thy land and people . 
From this hour I join myself to thy young power . 
I could not o'er to Russie hie , Thy mother's guardian here was I. It was my punishment for giving Magnus his name , while scarcely living . 
Afterwards Sigvat travelled with Queen Astrid , and followed Magnus to Norway . 
Now when Magnus became king of Norway Sigvat attended him , and was his dearest friend . 
King Magnus had a shrine made and mounted with gold and silver , and studded with jewels . 
This shrine was made so that in shape and size it was like a coffin . 
Under it was an arched way , and above was a raised roof , with a head and a roof ridge . 
Behind were plaited hangings and before were gratings with padlocks , which could be locked with a key . 
In this shrine King Magnus had the holy remains of King Olaf deposited , and many were the miracles there wrought . 
Here many a man shall feel his way , Stone blind , unconscious of the day , And at the shrine where Olaf lies Give songs of praise for opened eyes . 
It was also appointed by law that King Olaf's holy day should be held sacred over all Norway , and that day has been kept ever afterwards as the greatest of Church days . 
Well may I keep within my breast A day for him in holy rest , My upraised hands a golden ring On every branch bear from that king . 
The fingers , the branches of the hand , bore golden fruits from the generosity of the king . 
Thorer Hund left the country immediately after King Olaf's fall . 
He went all the way to Jerusalem , and many people say he never came back . 
Thorer Hund had a son called Sigurd , father of Ranveig who was married to Joan , a son of Arne Arnason . 
Their children were Vidkun of Bjarkey , Sigurd Hund , Erling , and Jardthrud . 
OF THE MURDER OF HAREK OF THJOTTA . 
Harek of Thjotta sat at home on his farm , till King Magnus Olafson came to the country and was made king . 
Then Harek went south to Throndhjem to King Magnus . 
At that time Asmund Grankelson was in the king's house . 
Now , says Asmund to the king , I will pay Harek for my father's murder . 
He had in his hand a little thin hatchet . 
The king looked at him , and said , Rather take this axe of mine . 
It was thick , and made like a club . 
Thou must know , Asmund , added he , that there are hard bones in the old fellow . 
Asmund took the axe , went down , and through the house , and when he came down to the cross road Harek and his men coming up met him . 
Asmund struck Harek on the head , so that the axe penetrated to the brains and that was Harek's death wound . 
Asmund turned back directly to the king's house , and the whole edge of the axe was turned with the blow . 
The king paid no attention to his words , but was listening to people who stood near him . 
Then Thorgeir said to the king , so loud that all who were around him could hear Listen , my lord , to my plain word . 
I too was there , and had to bear A bloody head from Stiklestad For I was then with Olaf's men . 
Listen to me well did I see The men you're trusting the dead corpse thrusting Out of their way , as dead it lay And striking o'er your father's gore . 
It was already come so far that the king took little notice of Kalf , but paid most attention to Einar . 
The king said to Einar , Let us ride to day to Stiklestad . 
I should like to see the memorials of the things which took place there . 
Einar replies , I can tell thee nothing about it but take thy foster father Kalf with thee he can give thee information about all that took place . 
When the tables were removed , the king made himself ready , and said to Kalf , Thou must go with me to Stiklestad . 
Kalf replied , That is really not my duty . 
Then the king stood up in a passion , and said , Go thou shalt , Kalf ! and thereupon he went out . 
King Magnus now rides to Stiklestad , and Kalf with him . 
They alighted from horseback , and went to the place where the battle had been . 
Then said the king to Kalf , Where is the spot at which the king fell ? Kalf stretched out his spear shaft , and said , There he lay when he fell . 
The king And where wast thou , Kalf ? Kalf Here where I am now standing . 
The king turned red as blood in the face , and said , Then thy axe could well have reached him . 
Kalf did not stop until he got home in the evening to Eggja . 
There his ship lay ready at the shore side , and all his effects were on board , and the vessel manned with his house servants . 
They set off immediately by night down the fjord , and afterwards proceeded day and night , when the wind suited . 
He sailed out into the West sea , and was there a long time plundering in Ireland , Scotland , and the Hebudes . 
OF THE THREATS OF THE BONDES . 
In like manner , he laid heavy fined upon many of those who made the greatest opposition to King Olaf . 
He drove some out of the country , took large sums of money from others , and had the cattle of others slaughtered for his use . 
The people of Sogn gathered men , and , it was said , were determined to give battle to King Magnus , if he came into the Fjord district . 
King Magnus was then in Hordaland , where he had remained a long time with a numerous retinue , and was now come to the resolution to proceed north to Sogn . 
OF THE FREE SPEAKING SONG . 
He said Here in the south , from Sogn is spread The news that strife draws to a head The bondes will the king oppose Kings and their folk should ne'er be foes . 
Let us take arms , and briskly go To battle , if it must be so Defend our king but still deplore His land plunged in such strife once more . 
In this song are also these verses Hakon . 
who at Fitiar died , Hakon the Good , could not abide The viking rule . 
or robber train , And all men's love he thus did gain . 
The people since have still in mind The laws of Hakon , just and kind And men will never see the day When Hakon's laws have passed away . 
Who urges thee , who seek'st renown , The bondes' cattle to cut down ? No king before e'er took in hand Such viking work in his own land . 
Such rapine men will not long bear , And the king's counsellors will but share In their ill will when once inflamed , The king himself for all is blamed . 
Do cautious , with this news of treason Flying about give them no reason . 
We hange the thief , but then we use Consideration of the excuse . 
, It would be wise not to oppose Thy bondes , and make them thy foes . 
A dangerous sign it is , I fear , That old grey bearded men appear In corners whispering at the Thing , As if they had bad news to bring . 
The young sit still , no laugh , or shout , More looks than words passing shout And groups of whispering heads are seen , On buttoned breasts , with lowering mien . 
Among the udalmen , they say The king , if he could have his way , Would seize the bondes' udal land , And free born men must this withstand . 
In truth the man whose udal field , By any doom that law can yield From him adjudged the king would take , Could the king's throne and power shake . 
This verse is the last A holy bond between us still Makes me wish speedy end to ill The sluggard waits till afternoon , At once great Magnus ! grant our boon . 
Then we will serve with heart and hand , With thee we'll fight by sea or land With Olaf's sword take Olaf's mind , And to thy bondes be more kind . 
In this song the king was exhorted to observe the laws which his father had established . 
This exhortation had a good effect on the king , for many others held the same language to him . 
So at last the king consulted the most prudent men , who ordered all affairs according to law . 
Thereafter King Magnus had the law book composed in writing which is still in use in Throndhjem district , and is called The Grey Goose . 
King Magnus afterwards became very popular , and was beloved by all the country people , and therefore he was called Magnus the Good . 
The Grey Goose embraces subjects not dealt with probably by any other code in Europe at that period . 
five years after his father King Canute , and was buried beside his father at Winchester . 
After his death his brother Hardaknut , the second son of the old King Canute , was king of England , and was thus king both of Denmark and England . 
He ruled these kingdoms two years , and then died of sickness in England , leaving no children . 
He was buried at Winchester beside his father . 
, was chosen king in England . 
Gunhild had been three years in Germamy when she fell sick , and she died five years after the death of her father King Canute the Great . 
he would come with his army to Denmark to take possession of his Danish dominions , in terms of the agreement , or to fall in the field with his army . 
Thereafter King Magnus gathered together a great army , and summoned to him all lendermen and powerful bondes , and collected war ships . 
When the army was assembled it was very handsome , and well fitted out . 
He had seventy large vessels when he sailed from Norway . 
So says Thiodolf the skald Brave king ! the terror of the foe , With thee will many a long ship go . 
Full seventy sail are gathered here , Eastward with their great king to steer . 
And southward now the bright keel glides O'er the white waves the Bison rides . 
Sails swell , yards crack , the highest mast O'er the wide sea scarce seen at last . 
Here it related that King Magnus had the great Bison , which his father King Olaf had built . 
It had more than thirty banks of rowers and forward on the bow was a great buffalo head , and aft on the stern post was its tail . 
Both the head and the tail , and both sides of the ship , were gilded over . 
Around Stavanger point careering , Through the wild sea's white flames steering , Tackle loud singing to the strain , The storm horse flies to Denmark's plain . 
King Magnus set out to sea from Agder , and sailed over to Jutland . 
So says Arnor I can relate how through the gale The gallant Bison carried sail . 
KING MAGNUS COMES TO DENMARK . 
When King Magnus came to Denmark he was joyfully received . 
KING MAGNUS CHOSEN KING OF DENMARK . 
King Magnus afterwards ordered the people to be summoned to Viborg to a Thing . 
Both in older and later times , the Danes elected their kings at the Viborg Thing . 
At this Thing the Danes chose Magnus Olafson to be king of all the Danish dorninions . 
and wherever he came the people received him joyfully , and obeyed him willingly . 
He divided the country into baronies and districts , and gave fiefs to men of power in the land . 
Late in autumn he returned with his fleet to Norway , but lay for some time at the Gaut river . 
There was a man , by name Svein , a son of Earl Ulf , and grandson of Thorgils Sprakaleg . 
Svein's mother was Astrid , a daughter of King Svein Forkbeard . 
Svein Ulfson was one of the handsomest men that could be seen he was very stout and strong , and very expert in all exercises , and a well spoken man withal . 
Every one who knew him said he had every quality which became a good chief . 
He could also speak for himself to the king well and cleverly so that it came at lasf to Svein's entering into King Magnus's service , and becoming his man . 
They often talked together afterwards in private concerning many affairs . 
SVEIN ULFSON CREATED AN EARL . 
One day , as King Magnus sat in his high seat and many people were around him , Svein Ulfson sat upon a footstool before the king . 
The king then made a speech Be it known to you , chiefs , and the people in general , that I have taken the following resolution . 
Here is a distinguished man , both for family and for his own merits , Svein Ulfson , who has entered into my service , and given me promise of fidelity . 
Some consider that ye are too great earls , and others that ye are fit for nothing . 
So says Thiodolf Twas at the Gaut river's shore , With hand on shrine Svein Ulfson swore . 
King Magnus first said o'er the oath , With which Svein Ulfson pledged his troth . 
The vows by Svein solemnly given , On holy bones of saints in heaven , To Magnus seemed both fair and fast He found they were too fair to last . 
Earl Svein went thereafter to Denmark , and the whole nation received him well . 
He established a court about him , and soon became a great man . 
, he went much about the country , and made friends among the powerful chiefs and , indeed , he was beloved by all the people of the land . 
he gathered a large force , with which he sailed south to Demnark , having heard the news from Vindland that the Vindland people in Jomsborg had withdrawn from their submission to him . 
The Danish kings had formerly had a very large earldom there , and they first founded Jomsborg and now the place was become a very strong fortress . 
Arnor , the earls' skald , tells of it thus Now in this strophe , royal youth ! I tell no more than the plain truth . 
The heathen on his false gods calls , And trembles even in their halls And by the light from its own flame The king this viking hold o'ercame . 
Many people in Vindland submitted to King Magnus , but many more got out of the way and fled . 
SVEIN RECEIVES THE TITLE OF KING . 
When Svein came to Scania the people of that country received him well , treated him as their king , and men joined him in crowds . 
He then went on to Seeland , where he was also well received , and the whole country joined him . 
He then went to Fyen , and laid all the islands under his power and as the people also joined him , he collected a great army and many ships of war . 
OF KING MAGNUS'S MILITARY FORCE . 
King Magnus heard this news , and at the same time that the people of Vindland had a large force on foot . 
He summoned people therefore to come to him , and drew together a great army in Jutland . 
Duke Otto , however , pressed much to go to battle . 
The king was very thoughtful for he was vexed that he should be obliged to fly , which fate he had never experienced before . 
He slept but little all night , and chanted his prayers . 
The following day was Michaelmas eve . 
Prepare , therefore , to give battle to the Vindlanders , when thou hearest my trumpet . 
When the king awoke he told his dream to his men , and the day was then dawning . 
King Magnus ran on before all his men to the enemy's army , and instantly hewed down with both hands every man who came against him . 
They who stood behind betook themselves to flight , and were hewed down like cattle at a slaughter . 
The king himself drove the fugitives eastward over the heath , and people fell all over the moor . 
So says Thiodolf And foremost he pursued , And the flying foe down hewed An eagle's feast each stroke , As the Vindland helms he broke . 
He drove them o'er the hearth , And they fly from bloody death But the moor , a mile or more , With the dead was studded o'er . 
On the other side , not many of King Magnus's people were killed , although many were wounded . 
never could do him harm . 
ENDNOTES Hel Death the goddess of Death . 
They met at Re , near Vestland and there was a great battle , which ended in King Magnus gaining the victory , and Svein taking flight . 
After losing many people , Svein fled back to Scania , and from thence to Gautland , which was a safe refuge if he needed it , and stood open to him . 
with many people , and had a guard to watch his ships . 
Svein Ulfson went directly to his ships as soon as he heard that King Magnus had left his fleet . 
He drew to him all the men he could , and went round in winter among the islands , Seeland , Fyen , and others . 
Towards Yule he sailed to Jutland , and went into Limfjord , where many people submitted to him . 
He imposed scat upon some , but some joined King Magnus . 
Svein was then in Aros with a great force and when he heard of King Magnus he laid his vessels without the town , and prepared for battle . 
Now I would let you know that I intend to go out against the earl and fight for it , although , we have fewer people . 
Now I would have you get ready to seek out the enemy , and give battle the moment we find him by rowing all to attack , and being all ready for battle . 
Thereupon the men put on their weapons , each man making himself and his place ready and then they stretched themselves to their oars . 
When they saw the earl's ships they rowed towards them , and made ready to attack . 
When Svein's men saw the forces they armed themselves , bound their ships together , and then began one of the sharpest of battles . 
So says Thiodolf , the skald Shield against shield , the earl and king Made shields and swords together ring . 
Some fought with stones or short stakes and those who were aft of the mast shot with the bow . 
So Says Thiodolf Steel pointed spear , and sharpened stake , Made the broad shield on arm shake The eagle , hovering in the air , Screamed o'er the prey preparing there . 
And stones and arrows quickly flew , And many a warrior bold they slew . 
Here it appears how hot the battle was with casting weapons . 
When his men saw this they urged each other on with mutual cheering , and there was one great hurrah through all the ships . 
So says Thiodolf On with our ships ! on to the foe ! Cry Magnus' men on , on they go . 
Spears against shields in fury rattle , Was never seen so fierce a battle . 
And now the battle was exceedingly sharp and in the assault Svein's ship was cleared of all her forecastle men , upon and on both sides of the forecastle . 
Svein fled , with a great part of his people but many fell , and many got life and peace . 
The earl's ships are driven to flight , Before the king would stop the fight The gold distributor first then Gave quarters to the vanquished men . 
This battle was fought on the last Sunday before Yule . 
And many a mabn , foredoomed to die , To save his life o'erboard did fly , But sank for swimming could not save , And dead men rolled in every wave . 
Magnus took seven ships from Svein's people . 
So says Thiodolf Thick Olaf's son seven vessels cleared , And with his fleet the prizes steered . 
The Norway girls will not be sad To hear such news each from her lad . 
He also sings The captured men will grieve the most Svein and their comrades to have lost For it went ill with those who fled , Their wounded had no easy bed . 
A heavy storm that very night O'ertook them flying from the fight And skulls and bones are tumbling round , Under the sea , on sandy ground . 
To save his land from our quick swords , Svein will need something more than words . 
Their hasty footmarks in the clay Showed that to Ringsted led their way . 
Spattered with mud from heel to head , Our gallant lord his true men led . 
Then Svein fled over to Fyen Island , and King Magnus carried fire and sword through Seeland , and burnt all round , because their men had joined Svein's troop in harvest . 
So says Thiodolf As Svein in winter had destroyed The royal house , the king employed No little force to guard the land , And the earl's forays to withstand . 
An armed band one morn he found , And so beset them round and round , That Canute's nephew quickly fled , Or he would have been captive led . 
Our Throndhjem king in his just ire Laid waste the land with sword and fire , Burst every house , and over all Struck terror into great and small . 
To the earl's friends he well repaid Their deadly hate such wild work made On them and theirs , that from his fury , Flying for life , away they hurry . 
King Magnus landed in Fyen , and plundered and burned over all and all of Svein's men who came there fled far enough . 
The gaping thralls in terror gaze On the broad upward spiring blaze , From thatched roofs and oak built walls , Their murdered masters' stately halls . 
After this the people of Denmark submitted to King Magnus , and during the rest of the winter , there was peace . 
BATTLE AT HELGANES Now , when Svein heard that King Magnus had gone to Norway he rode straight down , and had many people out of Svithjod with him . 
They met at a place called Helganes , and the battle began about the fall of day . 
King Magnus had fewer men , but larger and better equipt vessels . 
his prey , Seized many a ship ere break of day . 
When twilight fell he urged the fight , Close combat man to man all night Through a long harvest night's dark hours , Down poured the battle's iron showers . 
The battle was very hot , and as night advanced the fall of men was great . 
King Magnus , during the whole night , threw hand spears . 
Thiodolf speaks of this And there at Helganes sunk down , Sore wounded , men of great renown And Svein's retainers lost all heart , Ducking before the flying dart . 
The Norsemen's king let fly his spears , His death wounds adding to their fears For each spear blade was wet all o'er , Up to the shaft in their life gore . 
To make a short tale , King Magnus won the victory in this battle , and Svein fled . 
His ship was cleared of men from stem to stern and it went so on board many others of his ships . 
So says Thiodolf Earl Svein fled from the empty deck , His lonely ship an unmann'd wreck Magnus the Good , the people's friend , Pressed to the death on the false Svein . 
, the sword his father bore , Was edge and point , stained red with gore Swords sprinkle blood o'er armour bright , When kings for land and power fight . 
And Arnor says The cutters of Bjorn's own brother Soon changed their owner for another The king took them and all their gear The crews , however , got off clear . 
A great number of Svein's men fell , and King Magnus and his men had a vast booty to divide . 
A helm , gay arms , and gear worth bringing , Home to my quiet lovely one I sent with news how we had won . 
So says Thiodolf Olaf's brave son then gave command , All his ships' crews should quickly land King Magnus , marching at their head , A noble band of warriors led . 
A foray through the land he makes Denmark in every quarter shakes . 
Up hill and down the horses scour , Carrying the Danes from Norsemen's power . 
King Magnus drove with fire and sword through the land . 
So says Thiodolf And now the Norsemen storm along , Following their banner in a throng King Magnus' banner flames on high , A star to guide our roaming by . 
To Lund , o'er Scania's peaceful field , My shoulder bore my useless shield A fairer land , a better road , As friend or foe , I never trod . 
They began to burn the habitations all around , and the people fled on every side . 
Their timbered houses flame on high , Red flashing over half the sky The blazing town flings forth its light , Lighting the cowards on their flight . 
O'er Denmark's plains and corn fields , Meadows and moors , are seen our shields Victorious over all , we chase Svein's wounded men from place to place . 
Across Fiona's moor again , The paths late trodden by our men We tread once more , until quite near , Through morning mist , the foes appear . 
Then up our numerous banners flare In the cold early morning air And they from Magnus' power who fly Cannot this quick war work deny . 
Then Svein fled eastwards along Scania , and King Magnus returned to his ships , and steered eastwards also along the Scanian coast , having got ready with the greatest haste to sail . 
Thiodolf sings thus about it No drink but the salt sea On board our ships had we , When , following our king , On board our ships we spring . 
Hard work on the salt sea , Off Scania's coast , had we But we laboured for the king , To his foemen death to bring . 
, and was treated with great respect . 
This was the name of Saint Olaf's sword , which Magnus had recovered . 
When King Magnus had subdued Scania he turned about , and first went to Falster , where he landed , plundered , and killed many people who had before submitted to Svein . 
Arnor speaks of this A bloody vengeance for their guile King Magnus takes on Falster Isle The treacherous Danes his fury feel , And fall before his purpled steel . 
The battle field is covered o'er , With eagle's prey from shore to shore And the king's courtmen were the first To quench with blood the raven's thirst . 
Thereafter Magnus with his fleet proceeded to the isle of Fyen , went on land , plundered , and made great devastation . 
OF KING MAGNUS S BATTLES . 
, and sat in peace . 
He had held many battles , and had gained the victory in all . 
So says Od Kikinaskald 'Fore Michaelmas was struck the blow , That laid the Vindland vikings low And people learned with joy to hear The clang of arms , and leaders' cheer . 
Short before Yule fell out the day , Southward of Aros , where the fray , Though not enough the foe to quell , Was of the bloodiest men can tell . 
And Arnor says Olaf's avenger who can sing ? The skald cannot o'ertake the king , Who makes the war bird daily drain The corpse blood of his foemen slain . 
Four battles won within a year , Breaker of shields ! with swords and spear , And hand to hand , exalt thy fame Above the kings of greatest name . 
King Magnus had three battles with Svein Ulfson . 
So says Thiodolf To our brave Throndhjem sovereign's praise The skald may all his skaldcraft raise For fortune , and for daring deed , His song will not the truth exceed . 
After three battles to regain What was his own , unjustly ta'en , Unjustly kept , and dues denied , He levied dues in red blood dyed . 
OF KING MAGNUS , AND THORFIN AND RAGNVALD , EARLS OF ORKNEY . 
While King Magnus the Good , a son of King Olaf the Saint , ruled over Norway , as before related , the Earl Ragnvald Brusason lived with him . 
Earl Thorfin Sigurdson , the uncle of Ragnvald , ruled then over Orkney . 
King Magnus sent Ragnvald west to Orkney , and ordered that Thorfin should let him have his father's heritage . 
Thorfin let Ragnvald have a third part of the land along with him for so had Erase , the father of Ragnvald , had it at his dying day . 
Earl Thorfin was married to Ingebjorg , the earl mother , who was a daughter of Fin Arnason . 
Earl Ragnvald thought he should have two thirds of the land , as Olaf the Saint had promised to his father Bruse , and as Bruse had enjoyed as long as Olaf lived . 
This was the origin of a great strife between these relations , concerning which we have a long saga . 
They had a great battle in Pentland Firth , in which Kalf Arnason was with Earl Thorfin . 
Kalf , thou art fond of warlike toil , Gay in the strife and bloody broil But here 'twas hate made thee contend Against Earl Ragnvald , the king's friend . 
OF KING MAGNUS'S LETTER TO ENGLAND . 
Now it has so turned out , as ye have no doubt heard , that I have taken the Danish dominions as my heritage after Hardaknut . 
But before he departed this life he had England as well as Denmark therefore I consider myself now , in consequence of my rights by this agreement , to own England also . 
KING EDWARD'S ANSWER TO KING MAGNUS'S LETTER . 
And after him my stepfather , Canute the Great , took the kingdom , and as long as he lived there was no access to it . 
Now he died , and then it was the resolution of all the people of the country to take me for king here in England . 
So long as I had no kingly title I served only superiors in all respects , like those who had no claims by birth to land or kingdom . 
Now , however , I have received the kingly title , and am consecrated king . 
I have established my royal dignity and authority , as my father before me and while I live I will not renounce my title . 
If King Magnus come here with an army , I will gather no army against him but he shall only get the opportunity of taking England when he has taken my life . 
Tell him these words of mine . 
The ambassadors went back to King Magnus , and told him the answer to their message . 
Harald , son of Sigurd Syr , was born in the year A. D. , and left Norway A. D. . 
He was called Hardrade , that is , the severe counsellor , the tyrant , though the Icelanders never applied this epithet to him . 
Harald helped the Icelanders in the famine of A. D. , and sent them timber for a church at Thingvol . 
It was the Norwegians who gave him the name tyrant in contrast to the debonairete of Magnus . 
He came to Norway in A. D. , and became sole king in A. D. . 
He died in A. D. , and his son and successor Magnus died in A. D. . 
His saga is to be compared with Agrip , Fagrskinna , and Morkinskinna . 
HARALD ESCAPES FROM THE BATTLE OF STIKLESTAD . 
Harald was wounded , and escaped with other fugitives . 
Bulgaria's conqueror , I ween , Had scarcely fifteen winters seen , When from his murdered brother's side His unhelmed head he had to hide . 
Ragnvald Brusason led Harald from the battle , and the night after the fray took him to a bonde who dwelt in a forest far from other people . 
The peasant received Harald , and kept him concealed and Harald was waited upon until he was quite cured of his wounds . 
Then the bonde's son attended him on the way east over the ridge of the land , and they went by all the forest paths they could , avoiding the common road . 
From wood to wood I crept along , Unnoticed by the bonde throng Who knows , I thought , a day may come My name will yet be great at home . 
Harald and Ragnvald got ships , and went east in summer to Russia to King Jarisleif , and were with him all the following winter . 
Our brave king is to Russia gone , Braver than he on earth there's none His sharp sword will carve many feast To wolf and raven in the East . 
King Jarisleif gave Harald and Ragnvald a kind reception , and made Harald and Ellif , the son of Earl Ragnvald , chiefs over the land defence men of the king . 
So says Thiodolf Where Ellif was , one heart and hand The two chiefs had in their command In wedge or line their battle order Was ranged by both without disorder . 
The eastern Vindland men they drove Into a corner and they move The Lesians , although ill at ease , To take the laws their conquerors please . 
Harald remained several years in Russia , and travelled far and wide in the Eastern land . 
Then he began his expedition out to Greece , and had a great suite of men with him and on he went to Constantinople . 
So says Bolverk Before the cold sea curling blast The cutter from the land flew past , Her black yards swinging to and fro , Her shield hung gunwale dipping low . 
The king saw glancing o'er the bow Constantinople's metal glow From tower and roof , and painted sails Gliding past towns and wooded vales . 
At that time the Greek empire was ruled by the Empress Zoe the Great , and with her Michael Catalactus . 
Harald had his own men along with him . 
Now Harald had been but a short time in the army before all the Varings flocked to him , and they all joined together when there was a battle . 
It thus came to pass that Harald was made chief of the Varings . 
There was a chief over all the troops who was called Gyrger , and who was a relation of the empress . 
Gyrger and Harald went round among all the Greek islands , and fought much against the corsairs . 
OF HARALD AND GYRGER CASTING LOTS . 
Harald replies , If ye come first to the night quarter , ye take up your ground , and we must go pitch our tents at some other place where we best can . 
Now do ye so , in the same way , and find a place where ye will . 
They disputed long and hotly about this , and both sides armed themselves , and were on the way to fight for it but men of understanding came between and separated them . 
They said it would be better to come to an agreement about such questions , so that in future no dispute could arise . 
It came thus to an arbitration between them , at which the best and most sagacious men should give their judgment in the case . 
Accordingly the lots were made and marked . 
Harald said to Gyrger , Let me see what mark thou hast put upon thy lot , that we may not both mark our lots in the same way . 
Then Harald marked his lot , and put it into the box along with the other . 
There were many things they quarrelled about , but the end always was that Harald got his own way . 
HARALD'S EXPEDITION IN THE LAND OF THE SARACENS . 
They went out all on a campaign in summer . 
It thus happened often that when he commanded the army he gained victories , while Gyrger could do nothing . 
Harald accordingly left the army with the Varings and the Latin men , and Gyrger on his side went off with the Greek troops . 
Then it was seen what each could do . 
He then went with his troops westward to Africa , which the Varings call Serkland , where he was strengthened with many men . 
In Serkland he took eighty castles , some of which surrendered , and others were stormed . 
He then went to Sicily . 
So says Thiodolf The serpent's bed of glowing gold He hates the generous king , the bold ! He who four score towers laid low , Ta'en from the Saracenic foe . 
Before upon Sicilian plains , Shield joined to shield , the fight he gains , The victory at Hild's war game And now the heathens dread his name . 
So says also Illuge Bryndala skald For Michael's empire Harald fought , And southern lands to Michael brought So Budle's son his friendship showed When he brought friends to his abode . 
Here it is said that Michael was king of the Greeks at that time . 
Now when Harald came to Sicily he plundered there also , and sat down with his army before a strong and populous castle . 
Then Harald hit upon an expedient . 
He made his bird catchers catch the small birds which had their nests within the castle , but flew into the woods by day to get food for their young . 
He had small splinters of tarred wood bound upon the backs of the birds , smeared these over with wax and sulphur , and set fire to them . 
Thus one house after the other was set on fire , until the castle itself was in flames . 
Then the people came out of the castle and begged for mercy the same men who for many days had set at defiance the Greek army and its leader . 
Harald granted life and safety to all who asked quarter , and made himself master of the place . 
There was another castle before which Harald had come with his army . 
This castle was both full of people and so strong , that there was no hope of breaking into it . 
The castle stood upon a flat hard plain . 
Then Harald undertook to dig a passage from a place where a stream ran in a bed so deep that it could not be seen from the castle . 
They threw out all the earth into the stream , to be carried away by the water . 
They shot at each other all day in this way , and at night they slept on both sides . 
Now when Harald perceived that his underground passage was so long that it must be within the castle walls , he ordered his people to arm themselves . 
It was towards daybreak that they went into the passage . 
When they got to the end of it they dug over their heads until they came upon stones laid in lime which was the floor of a stone hall . 
They broke open the floor and rose into the hall . 
The Varings pursued them and some seized the castle gate , and opened it , so that the whole body of the army got in . 
The people of the castle fled but many asked quarter from the troops , which was granted to all who surrendered . 
In this way Harald got possession of the place , and found an immense booty in it . 
BATTLE AT A THIRD CASTLE . 
They came to a third castle , the greatest and strongest of them all , and also the richest in property and the fullest of people . 
Harald told his men to make as if they did not know what to do , or did not understand what was said . 
and shut out the others for they have all the castle gates beset with men . 
We shall therefore show them the same scorn they show us , and let them see we do not fear them . 
Our men shall go out upon the plain nearest to the castle taking care , however , to keep out of bow shot . 
All our men shall go unarmed , and be playing with each other , so that the castle men may see we do not regard them or their array . 
Thus it went on for some days , without anything being done . 
, a son of the gode Snorre , who brought this account to Iceland the other was Ulf Uspakson , a grandson of Usvifer Spake . 
Both were very strong men , bold under arms , and Harald's best friends and both were in this play . 
Now when some days were passed the castle people showed more courage , and would go without weapons upon the castle wall , while the castle gates were standing open . 
The Varings observing this , went one day to their sports with the sword under their cloaks , and the helmet under their hats . 
After playing awhile they observed that the castle people were off their guard and instantly seizing their weapons , they made at the castle gate . 
When the men of the castle saw this they went against them armed completely , and a battle began in the castle gate . 
The Varings had no shields , but wrapped their cloaks round their left arms . 
Some of them were wounded , some killed , and all stood in great danger . 
When Harald came to the castle gate his standard bearer fell , and Harald said to Haldor , Do thou take up the banner now . 
Then they pressed in , and had a hard battle in the castle and the end was that Harald gained the victory and took the castle . 
Haldor was much wounded in the face , and it gave him great pain as long as he lived . 
One of the descendants of this Haldor was Snorre Sturlason , the author of Heimskring a . 
BATTLE AT A FOURTH CASTLE . 
The fourth castle which Harald came to was the greatest of all we have been speaking about . 
It was so strong that there was no possibility of breaking into it . 
They surrounded the castle , so that no supplies could get into it . 
When they had remained here a short time Harald fell sick , and he betook himself to his bed . 
He had his tent put up a little from the camp , for he found quietness and rest out of the clamour and clang of armed men . 
A while after Harald's strength began to fail , at which his men were very melancholy and cast down all which was news to the castle men . 
At last Harald's sickness increased so rapidly that his death was expected through all the army . 
Thereafter the Varings went to the castle men told them , in a parley , of the death of their commander and begged of the priests to grant him burial in the castle . 
A great many priests , therefore , clothed themselves in all their robes , and went out of the castle with cross and shrine and relics and formed a beautiful procession . 
The Varings also made a great burial . 
The coffin was borne high in the air , and over it was a tent of costly linen and before it were carried many banners . 
The whole army of the Varings , fully armed . 
The Varings rummaged so well this castle that they killed all the men , pillaged everything and made an enormous booty . 
Harald was many years in these campaigns , both in Serkland and in Sicily . 
Then he came back to Constantinople with his troops and stayed there but a little time before he began his expedition to Jerusalem . 
There he left the pay he had received from the Greek emperor and all the Varings who accompanied him did the same . 
It is said that on all these expeditions Harald had fought eighteen regular battles . 
So says Thiodolf Harald the Stern ne'er allowed Peace to his foemen , false and proud In eighteen battles , fought and won , The valour of the Norseman shone . 
The king , before his home return , Oft dyed the bald head of the erne With bloody specks , and o'er the waste The sharp claw'd wolf his footsteps traced . 
Here it is told that this land came without fire and sword under Harald's command . 
He then went out to Jordan and bathed therein , according to the custom of other pilgrims . 
Harald gave great gifts to our Lord's grave , to the Holy Cross , and other holy relics in the land of Jerusalem . 
He also cleared the whole road all the way out to Jordan , by killing the robbers and other disturbers of the peace . 
So says the skald Stuf The Agder king cleared far and wide Jordan's fair banks on either side The robber bands before him fled , And his great name was widely spread . 
The wicked people of the land Were punished here by his dread hand , And they hereafter will not miss Much worse from Jesus Christ than this . 
Thereafter he went back to Constantinople . 
Constantinus Monomachus was at that time emperor of the Greeks and ruled along with Zoe . 
On this account the Greek emperor had Harald made prisoner and carried to prison . 
KING OLAF'S MIRACLE AND BLINDING THE GREEK EMPEROR . 
When Harald drew near to the prison King Olaf the Saint stood before him and said he would assist him . 
On that spot of the street a chapel has since been built and consecrated to Saint Olaf and which chapel has stood there ever since . 
The prison was so constructed that there was a high tower open above , but a door below to go into it from the street . 
Through it Harald was thrust in , along with Haldor and Ulf . 
Saint Olaf had formerly cured this lady of a sickness and he had appeared to her in a vision and told her to deliver his brother . 
Harald went immediately to the Varings , who all rose from their seats when he came in and received him with joy . 
The men armed themselves forthwith and went to where the emperor slept . 
They took the emperor prisoner and put out both the eyes of him . 
The same night King Harald and his men went to the house where Maria slept and carried her away by force . 
Then they went down to where the galleys of the Varings lay , took two of them and rowed out into Sjavid sound . 
The galleys thus ran up and lay on the iron chain . 
As soon as they stood fast on it , and would advance no farther , Harald ordered all the men to run forward into the bow . 
Harald then sailed northwards in the Ellipalta and then all round the Eastern empire . 
On this voyage Harald composed sixteen songs for amusement and all ending with the same words . 
Never , I think , along this shore Did Norsemen ever sail before Yet to the Russian queen , I fear , My gold adorned , I am not dear . 
With this he meant Ellisif , daughter of King Jarisleif in Novgorod . 
When Harald came to Novgorod King Jarisleif received him in the most friendly way and he remained there all winter . 
Harald had been three times in the poluta svarf while he was in Constantinople . 
This winter King Jarisleif gave Harald his daughter Elisabeth in marriage . 
She is called by the Northmen Ellisif . 
This is related by Stuf the Blind , thus Agder's chief now got the queen Who long his secret love had been . 
Of gold , no doubt , a mighty store The princess to her husband bore . 
In spring he began his journey from Novgorod and came to Aldeigjuborg , where he took shipping and sailed from the East in summer . 
He turned first to Svithjod and came to Sigtuna . 
So says Valgard o' Val The fairest cargo ship e'er bore , From Russia's distant eastern shore The gallant Harald homeward brings Gold , and a fame that skald still sings . 
The ship through dashing foam he steers , Through the sea rain to Svithjod veers , And at Sigtuna's grassy shores His gallant vessel safely moors . 
THE LEAGUE BETWEEN KING HARALD AND SVEIN ULFSON . 
had fled from King Magnus at Helganes and when they met they were very friendly on both sides . 
The Swedish king , Olaf the Swede , was brother of the mother of Ellisif , Harald's wife and Astrid , the mother of Svein , was King Olaf's sister . 
Harald and Svein entered into friendship with each other and confirmed it by oath . 
So says Thiodolf Cross the East sea the vessel flew , Her oak keel a white furrow drew From Russia's coast to Swedish land . 
Where Harald can great help command . 
The heavy vessel's leeward side Was hid beneath the rushing tide While the broad sail and gold tipped mast Swung to and fro in the hard blast . 
Then Harald and Svein fitted out ships and gathered together a great force and when the troops were ready they sailed from the East towards Denmark . 
So says Valgard Brave Yngve ! to the land decreed To thee by fate , with tempest speed The winds fly with thee o'er the sea To thy own udal land with thee . 
As past the Scanlan plains they fly , The gay ships glances 'twixt sea and sky , And Scanian brides look out , and fear Some ill to those they hold most dear . 
They landed first in Seeland with their men and herried and burned in the land far and wide . 
Then they went to Fyen , where they also landed and wasted . 
So says Valgard Harald ! thou hast the isle laid waste , The Seeland men away hast chased , And the wild wolf by daylight roams Through their deserted silent homes . 
Fiona too could not withstand The fury of thy wasting hand . 
Helms burst , shields broke , Fiona's bounds . 
Were filled with death's terrific sounds . 
Few were they of escape to tell , For , sorrow worn , the people fell The only captives form the fray Were lovely maidens led away . 
And in wild terror to the strand , Down to the ships , the linked band Of fair haired girls is roughly driven , Their soft skins by the irons riven . 
King Magnus Olafson sailed north to Norway in the autumn after the battle at Helganes . 
King Magnus then ordered a general levy over all Norway and he soon collected a great army . 
He hears then that Harald and Svein were come to Denmark and were burning and laying waste the land and that the country people were everywhere submitting to them . 
On either side of Seeland's coast A fleet appears a white winged host Magnus form Norway takes his course , Harald from Sweden leads his force . 
TREATY BETWEEN HARALD AND MAGNUS . 
This affair was conducted very secretly . 
TREATY BETWEEN HARALD AND SVEIN BROKEN . 
He answered , it was his banner Land waster . 
Svein asked what was there remarkable about it , that he valued it so highly . 
Harald replied , it was a common saying that he must gain the victory before whom that banner is borne , and it had turned out so ever since he had owned it . 
Svein replies , I will begin to believe there is such virtue in the banner when thou hast held three battles with thy relation Magnus , and hast gained them all . 
Harald answers , It becomes thee ill to say that I have not stood by an agreement , when I know what King Magnus could tell of thy proceedings with him . 
Thereupon each went his own way . 
I observed this evening that my friend Svein was very angry at my free discourse . 
Thou shalt keep watch , therefore , in case anything happen in the night . 
Harald then went away to sleep somewhere else , and laid a billet of wood in his place . 
Thereupon Harald waked his men and let them know the treachery intended . 
Let us cast loose our vessel and row away as quietly as possible . 
They did so , and rowed during the night northwards along the land and then proceeded night and day until they came to King Magnus , where he lay with his army . 
Harald went to his relation Magnus , and there was a joyful meeting betwixt them . 
People , no doubt , rejoiced to find The kings had met in peaceful mind . 
Afterwards the two relatives conversed with each other and all was settled by peaceful agreement . 
KING MAGNUS GIVES HARALD HALF OF NORWAY . 
King Magnus lay at the shore and had set up tents upon the land . 
There he invited his relation , King Harald , to be his guest at table and Harald went to the entertainment with sixty of his men and was feasted excellently . 
Towards the end of the day King Magnus went into the tent where Harald sat and with him went men carrying parcels consisting of clothes and arms . 
Thou shalt strengthen and advance our kingdom , in return for making thee that man in Norway whom we never expected any man should be so long as our head was above ground . 
Then Harald stood up , and thanked him for the high title and dignity . 
Thereupon they both sat down , and were very merry together . 
The same evening Harald and his men returned to their ships . 
HARALD GIVES MAGNUS THE HALF OF HIS TREASURES . 
The two kings sat together on a high seat , and the feast was splendid everything went on with magnificence , and the kings' were merry and glad . 
Now we on our side have been in foreign parts , and oft in peril of life , to gather together the gold which you here see . 
Now , King Magnus , I will divide this with you . 
We shall both own this movable property , and each have his equal share of it , as each has his equal half share of Norway . 
Then Harald had a large ox hide spread out , and turned the gold out of the caskets upon it . 
But it was understood that it was the Greek emperor's property and wealth for , as all people say , there are whole houses there full of red gold . 
The kings were now very merry . 
Then there appeared an ingot among the rest as big as a man's hand . 
I have no more gold in my possession than this ring . 
And he took the ring off his hand and gave it to Harald . 
Harald looked at it , and said , That is but little gold , friend . 
for the king who owns two kingdoms and yet some may doubt whether thou art rightful owner of even this ring . 
Then said King Harald , laughing , It is true , King Magnus , what thou sayest . 
With that came also two gold rings , which together stood for a mark . 
He gave him also his cloak of dark purple lined with white skins within , and promised him besides his friendship and great dignity . 
The people gained a blessed peace , Which 'twixt the kings did never cease While Svein , disturbed with war's alarms , Had his folk always under arms . 
The kings Magnus and Harald both ruled in Norway the winter after their agreement , and each had his court . 
In winter they went around the Upland country in guest quarters and sometimes they were both together , sometimes each was for himself . 
They went all the way north to Throndhjem , to the town of Nidaros . 
Many miracles were worked by King Olaf's holy remains . 
It was not long before there was a breach in the good understanding between the two kings , as many were so mischievous as to promote discord between them . 
Svein Ulfson remained behind in the harbour after Harald had gone away , and inquired about his proceedings . 
Then Svein , with his troops , came south to Denmark and took all the royal income that winter . 
OF THE LEVY OF THE TWO KINGS . 
King Magnus and his relation , King Harald , ordered a levy in Norway . 
It happened once that the kings lay all night in the same harbour and next day , King Harald , being first ready , made sail . 
Towards evening he brought up in the harbour in which Magnus and his retinue had intended to pass the night . 
Harald laid his vessel in the royal ground , and there set up his tents . 
King Magnus got under sail later in the day and came into the harbour just as King Harald had done pitching his tents . 
They saw then that King Harald had taken up the king's ground and intended to lie there . 
They did so and laid the vessel out of the ground and King Magnus laid his vessel in it . 
When they were now ready on both sides with their business , King Harald went with a few men on board of King Magnus's ship . 
King Magnus received him in a friendly way , and bade him welcome . 
King Harald answered , I thought we were come among friends but just now I was in doubt if ye would have it so . 
But it is a truth that childhood is hasty , and I will only consider it as a childish freak . 
Then said King Magnus , It is no childish whim , but a trait of my family , that I never forget what I have given , or what I have not given . 
If this trifle had been settled against my will , there would soon have followed' some other discord like it . 
In all particulars I will hold the agreement between us but in the same way we will have all that belongs to us by that right . 
King Harald coolly replied , that it is an old custom for the wisest to give way and returned to his ship . 
From such circumstances it was found difficult to preserve good understanding between the kings . 
King Magnus's men said he was in the right but others , less wise , thought there was some slight put upon Harald in the business . 
They observed , also , that King Harald had conducted himself well and wisely in the matter . 
Such disputes were talked over so long among foolish people , that the spirit of disagreeing affected the kings themselves . 
Many other things also occurred , in which the kings appeared determined to have each his own way but of these little will be set down here . 
KING MAGNUS THE GOOD'S DEATH . 
The kings , Magnus and Harald , sailed with their fleet south to Denmark and when Svein heard of their approach , he fled away east to Scania . 
Magnus and Harald remained in Denmark late in summer , and subdued the whole country . 
In autumn they were in Jutland . 
Then the king thought the answer was , Thou shalt follow me . 
King Magnus told his men this dream . 
Soon after he fell sick and lay at a place called Sudathorp . 
When he was near his death he sent his brother , Thorer , with tokens to Svein Ulfson , with the request to give Thorer the aid he might require . 
In this message King Magnus also gave the Danish dominions to Svein after his death and said it was just that Harald should rule over Norway and Svein over Denmark . 
, and great was the sorrow of all the people at his death . 
So says Od Kikinaskald The tears o'er good King Magnus' bier , The people's tears , were all sincere Even they to whom he riches gave Carried him heavily to the grave . 
All hearts were struck at the king's end His house thralls wept as for a friend His court men oft alone would muse , As pondering o'er unthought of news . 
He therefore asked his men for their aid , and said he thought the Norway man should show himself always superior to the Dane . 
He ended his speech with saying that he would rather follow King Magnus dead than any other king alive . 
Thereupon he had the body adorned in the most careful way , so that most magnificent preparations were made in the king's ship . 
Then all the Throndhjem people and all the Northmen made themselves ready to return home with the king's body , and so the army was broken up . 
As soon as he came to Norway he held a Thing with the people of the country , and had himself proclaimed king everywhere . 
He proceeded thus from the East through Viken , and in every district in Norway he was named king . 
Einar Tambaskelfer , and with him all the Throndhjem troops , went with King Magnus's body and transported it to the town of Nidaros , where it was buried in St . 
Clement's church , where also was the shrine of King Olaf the Saint . 
King Magnus was of middle size , of long and clear complexioned countenance , and light hair , spoke well and hastily , was brisk in his actions , and extremely generous . 
He was a great warrior , and remarkably bold in arms . 
He was the most popular of kings , prized even by enemies as well as friends . 
Svein answered in haste , I call God to witness that I shall never again fly from the Danish dominions as long as I live . 
Then he got on his horse and rode south into Scania , where immediately many people crowded to him . 
That winter he brought under his power all the Danish dominions , and all the Danes took him for their king . 
, he ordered a levy through all the land of one half of all men and ships and went south to Jutland . 
To this Bolverk alludes in his song also , that Harald went to Denmark the summer after King Magnus's death . 
The Danes , from banks or hillocks green , Looked with dismay upon the scene . 
Then they burned the house of Thorkel Geysa , who was a great lord , and his daughters they carried off bound to their ships . 
Then this was composed The Island girls , we were told , Made anchors all our fleet to hold Their Danish jest cut out in cheese Did not our stern king's fancy please . 
Now many a maiden fair , may be , Sees iron anchors splash the sea , Who will not wake a maid next morn To laugh at Norway's ships in scorn . 
Dotta , Thorkel's daughter , replied , That was yesterday . 
Thorkel had to ransom his daughters with a great sum . 
So says Grane The gold adorned girl's eye Through Hornskeg wood was never dry , As down towards the sandy shore The men their lovely prizes bore . 
The Norway leader kept at bay The foe who would contest the way , And Dotta's father had to bring Treasure to satisfy the king . 
King Harald plundered in Denmark all that summer , and made immense booty but he had not any footing in the land that summer in Denmark . 
He went to Norway again in autumn and remained there all winter . 
MARRIAGES AND CHILDREN OF HARALD HARDRADE . 
The winter after King Magnus the Good died , King Harald took Thora , daughter of Thorberg Arnason , and they had two sons the oldest called Magnus , and the other Olaf . 
King Harald and Queen Ellisif had two daughters the one Maria , the other Ingegerd . 
, and herried there , and did so summer after summer thereafter . 
So says Stuf , the skald Falster lay waste , as people tell , The raven in other isles fared well . 
The Danes were everywhere in fear , For the dread foray every year . 
OF THE ARMAMENTS OF SVEIN ULFSON AND HARALD . 
King Svein ruled over all the Danish dominions after King Magnus's death . 
to meet him the following summer at the Gaut river and fight until in the battle field their differences were ended , or they were settled peacefully . 
They made ready on both sides all winter with their ships , and called out in summer one half of all the fighting men . 
The same summer came Thorleik the Fair out of Iceland , and composed a poem about King Svein Ulfson . 
He heard , when he arrived in Norway , that King Harald had sailed south to the Gaut river against King Svein . 
God only knows the end of strife , Or which shall have his land and life This strife must come to such an end , For terms will never bind King Svein . 
Svein , who in blood his arrows stains , Brings o'er the ocean's heaving plains His gold beaked ships , which come in view Out from the Sound with many a hue . 
King Harald came with his forces to the appointed meeting place but there he heard that King Svein was lying with his fleet at the south side of Seeland . 
They sailed over to Jutland to the south of Vendilskage , and so south to Thioda and over all they carried fire and sword . 
So says Stuf , the skald In haste the men of Thyland fly From the great monarch's threat'ning eye At the stern Harald's angry look The boldest hearts in Denmark shook . 
They went forward all the way south to Heidaby , took the merchant town and burnt it . 
Then one of Harald's men made the following verses All Heidaby is burned down ! Strangers will ask where stood the town . 
In our wild humour up it blazed , And Svein looks round him all amazed . 
All Heidaby is burned down ! From a far corner of the town I saw , before the peep of morning , Roofs , walls , and all in flame high burning . 
HARALD'S ESCAPE INTO THE JUTLAND SEA . 
King Harald had little more than half the force of King Svein and therefore he challenged Svein to fight at sea . 
The king , impatient of delay , Harald , will with his sea hawks stay On board will fight , and fate decide If Svein shall by his land abide . 
After that King Harald sailed north along Vendilskage and the wind then came against them , and they brought up under Hlesey , where they lay all night . 
A thick fog lay upon the sea and when the morning came and the sun rose they saw upon the other side of the sea as if many lights were burning . 
This was told to King Harald and he looked at it , and said immediately , Strike the tilts down on the ships and take to the oars . 
It was so as he had said . 
Svein had come there with a prodigious armed force . 
They rowed now on both sides all they could . 
The Danish ships flew lighter before the oars for the Northmen's ships were both soaked with water and heavily laden , so that the Danes approached nearer and nearer . 
They dropped rowing and lost ground . 
The Danes then began again to stretch out lustily at their oars . 
This was done but so much time was lost that they separated from each other . 
The Danes turned back and the Northmen proceeded on their way . 
The Jutlanders saw , as he threw , Their own goods floating in their view His lighten'd ships fly o'er the main While they pick up their own again . 
King Svein returned southwards with his ships to Hlesey , where he found seven ships of the Northmen , with bondes and men of the levy . 
When King Svein came to them they begged for mercy , and offered ransom for themselves . 
The hasty bondes for a word Would have betaken them to the sword , And have prolonged a bloody strife Such men can give no price for life . 
King Harald was a great man , who ruled his kingdom well in home concerns . 
Very prudent was he , of good understanding and it is the universal opinion that no chief ever was in northern lands of such deep judgment and ready counsel as Harald . 
This is owing partly to our uncertainty about them , partly to our wish not to put stories into this book for which there is no testimony . 
A great part of his history is put in verse by Iceland men , which poems they presented to him or his sons , and for which reason he was their great friend . 
King Harold also sent from Norway a bell for the church of which Olaf the Saint had sent the timbers to Iceland , and which was erected on the Thing plain . 
Such remembrances of King Harald are found here in the country , besides many great gifts which he presented to those who visited him . 
Haldor Snorrason and Ulf Uspakson , as before related , came to Norway with King Harald . 
They were , in many respects , of different dispositions . 
Haldor was very stout and strong , and remarkably handsome in appearance . 
Haldor remained a short time with the king and then came to Iceland , where he took up his abode in Hjardarholt , and dwelt in that farm to a very advanced age . 
Ulf Uspakson stood in great esteem with King Harald for he was a man of great understanding , clever in conversation , active and brave , and withal true and sincere . 
King Harald made Ulf his marshal , and married him to Jorun , Thorberg's daughter , a sister of Harald's wife , Thora . 
Ulf and Jorun's children were Joan the Strong of Rasvol , and Brigida , mother of Sauda Ulf , who was father of Peter Byrdar Svein , father of Ulf Fly and Sigrid . 
Joan the Strong's son was Erlend Himalde , father of Archbishop Eystein and his brothers . 
King Harald gave Ulf the marshal the rights of a lenderman and a fief of twelve marks income , besides a half district in the Throndhjem land . 
Of this Stein Herdison speaks in his song about Ulf . 
OF THE BUILDING OF CHURCHES AND HOUSES . 
, on the spot where Olaf's body was set down for the night , and which , at that time , was above the town . 
He also had the king's house built there . 
The church was not quite finished when the king died but King Harald had what was wanting completed . 
There , beside the house , he began to construct a stone hall , but it was not finished when he died . 
It was a large temple , and so strongly built with lime that it was difficult to break it when the Archbishop Eystein had it pulled down . 
Olaf's holy remains were kept in Olaf's church while Mary Church was building . 
BEGINNING OF HAKON IVARSON'S STORY . 
There was a man called Ivar the White , who was a brave lenderman dwelling in the Uplands , and was a daughter's son of Earl Hakon the Great . 
Ivar was the handsomest man that could be seen . 
Ivar's son was called Hakon and of him it was said that he was distinguished above all men then in Norway for beauty , strength and perfection of figure . 
In his very youth he had been sent out on war expeditions , where he acquired great honour and consideration , and became afterwards one of the most celebrated men . 
Einar Tambaskelfer was the most powerful lenderman in the Throndhjem land . 
There was but little friendship between him and King Harald , although Einar retained all the fiefs he had held while Magnus the Good lived . 
Einar had many large estates , and was married to Bergliot , a daughter of Earl Hakon , as related above . 
Their son Eindride was grown up , and married to Sigrid , a daughter of Ketil Kalf and Gunhild , King Harald's sister's daughter . 
He was , also , as well as his father , the most popular of men , which the sagas , indeed , show sufficiently . 
Orm was at that time earl in the Uplands . 
His mother was Ragnhild , a daughter of Earl Hakon the Great , and Orm was a remarkably clever man . 
Aslak Erlingson was then in Jadar at Sole , and was married to Sigrid , a daughter of Earl Svein Hakonson . 
Gunhild , Earl Svein's other daughter , was married to the Danish king , Svein Ulfson . 
OF THE QUARREL OF KING HARALD AND EINAR TAMBASKELFER . 
Einar Tambaskelfer was the principal man among the bondes all about Throndhjem , and answered for them at the Things even against the king's men . 
Einar knew well the law , and did not want boldness to bring forward his opinion at Things , even if the king was present and all the bondes stood by him . 
The king was very angry at this , and it came so far that they disputed eagerly against each other . 
Einar said that the bondes would not put up with any unlawful proceedings from him if he broke through the law of the land and this occurred several times between them . 
Einar then began to keep people about him at home , and he had many more when he came into the town if the king was there . 
It once happened that Einar came to the town with a great many men and ships he had with him eight or nine great war ships and nearly men . 
When he came to the town he went up from the strand with his attendants . 
This bonde leader thinks to rule , And fill himself the royal stool . 
A goodly earl I have known With fewer followers of his own . 
He who strikes fire from the shield , Einar , may some day make us yield , Unless our axe edge quickly ends , With sudden kiss , what he intends . 
Einar remained several days in the town . 
THE FALL OF EINAR AND EINDRIDE . 
One day there was a meeting held in the town , at which the king himself was present . 
A thief had been taken in the town , and he was brought before the Thing . 
The man had before been in the service of Einar , who had been very well satisfied with him . 
This was told to Einar , and he well knew the king would not let the man off , and more because he took an interest in the matter . 
Einar , therefore , let his men get under arms , went to the Thing , and took the man by force . 
The friends on both sides then came between and endeavoured to effect a reconciliation and they succeeded so far that a meeting place was appointed , to which both should come . 
The king ordered the shutters of the loft opening to be turned , so that there was but a little space left clear . 
When Einar came into the yard with his people , he told his son Eindride to remain outside with the men , for there is no danger here for me . 
Eindride remained standing outside at the room door . 
When Einar came into the Thing room , he said , It is dark in the king's Thing room . 
At that moment some men ran against him and assaulted him , some with spears , some with swords . 
When Eindride heard this he drew his sword and rushed into the room but he was instantly killed along with his father . 
The king's men then ran up and placed themselves before the door , and the bondes lost courage , having no leader . 
They urged each other on , indeed , and said it was a shame they should not avenge their chief but it came to nothing with their attack . 
The king went out to his men , arrayed them in battle order , and set up his standard but the bondes did not venture to assault . 
Then the king went with all his men on board of his ships , rowed down the river , and then took his way out of the fjord . 
Then said Bergliot , Now we want here my relation , Hakon Ivarson Einar's murderer would not be rowing out of the river if Ivar stood here on the riverbank . 
Then Bergliot adorned Einar's and Eindride's corpses and buried them in Olaf's church , beside King Magnus Olafson's burial place . 
OF KING HARALD AND FIN ARNASON . 
Fin Arnason dwelt at Austrat in Yrjar , and was King Harald's lenderman there . 
Fin was married to Bergliot , a daughter of Halfdan , who was a son of Sigurd Syr , and brother of Olaf the Saint and of King Harald . 
Thora , King Harald's wife , was Fin Arnason's brother's daughter and Fin and all his brothers were the king's dearest friends . 
Fin Arnason had been for some summers on a viking cruise in the West sea and Fin , Guthorm Gunhildson and Hakon Ivarson had all been together on that cruise . 
King Harald now proceeded out of Throndhjem fjord to Austrat , where he was well received . 
Afterwards the king and Fin conversed with each other about this new event of Einar's and his son's death , and of the murmuring and threatening which the bondes made against the king . 
Fin says , Hold thou thy word , king , and I will choose my petition . 
The king assented to all that Fin laid down , and it was confirmed by witnesses and shake of hand . 
Then King Harald proceeded southwards to More , and drew together men in considerable numbers . 
Fin Arnason proceeded to the town and had with him his house servants , nearly eighty men . 
When he came into the town he held a Thing with the town's people . 
The effect of Fin's speech was that the bondes promised to wait quietly until the messengers came back whom Bergliot had sent to the Uplands to her relative , Hakon Ivarson . 
Fin then went out to Orkadal with the men who had accompanied him to the town . 
From thence he went up to Dovrefield , and eastwards over the mountains . 
He went first to his son in law , Earl Orm , who was married to Sigrid , Fin's daughter , and told him his business . 
OF FIN AND HAKON IVARSON . 
Then Fin and Earl Orm appointed a meeting with Hakon Ivarson and when they met Fin explained his errand to Hakon , and the offer which King Harald made him . 
Earl Orm also supported Fin's speech . 
Fin said he would agree to this on the king's part and thus it was settled among them . 
OF THE COURTSHIP OF HAKON IVARSON . 
Then Hakon went to Ragnhild , and paid his addresses to her . 
Hakon takes them all to witness that such was the agreement that the king should give Ragnhild the dower she might desire . 
Hakon saw now that his business had not advanced , and was very ill pleased and Fin was outrageously angry . 
They said the king had broken his word and thus they all separated . 
Hakon then went out of the country with a well manned ship . 
When he came to Denmark he went immediately to his relative , King Svein , who received him honourably and gave him great fiefs . 
There was a man called Asmund , who is said to have been King Svein's sister's son , and his foster son . 
This Asmund was distinguished among all by his boldness and was much disliked by the king . 
When Asmund came to years , and to age of discretion , he became an ungovernable person given to murder and manslaughter . 
The king was ill pleased at this , and sent him away , giving him a good fief , which might keep him and his followers well . 
Now when the king was riding through the country he came to the neighbourhood where Asmund was , and he sent out men at arms to seize him . 
Thus he made great forays , killing and plundering all around . 
These words of the king were brought to Hakon , with many additions . 
Then Hakon went with his men in search of Asmund , and when their ships met Hakon gave battle immediately and the conflict was sharp , and many men were killed . 
Hakon boarded Asmund's ship and cut down the men before his feet . 
At last he and Asmund met and exchanged blows until Asmund fell . 
Hakon cut off his head , went in all haste to King Svein and found him just sitting down to the dinner table . 
Hakon presented himself before the table , laid Asmund's head upon the table before the king , and asked if he knew it . 
The king made no reply , but became as red as blood in the face . 
Soon after the king sent him a message , ordering him to leave his service immediately . 
Tell him I will do him no harm but I cannot keep watch over all our relations . 
This incident shows how strong , in those ages , was the tie of relationship , and the point of honour of avenging its injuries the clanship spirit . 
Hakon then left Denmark , and came north to his estates in Norway . 
His relation Earl Orm was dead . 
Hakon's relations and friends were glad to see Hakon , and many gallant men gave themselves much trouble to bring about a reconciliation between King Harald and Hakon . 
Hakon swore to King Harald an oath of fidelity to all the services he was liable to fulfill . 
RECONCILIATION OF KING HARALD AND KALF . 
When this message came to Kalf he immediately got ready for his voyage , and went east to Norway to his brother Fin . 
Then Fin obtained the king's peace for Kalf , and when Kalf and the king met they went into the agreement which Fin and the king had settled upon before . 
Thereupon Kalf received all the estates and fiefs he had before . 
King Harald ordered out a levy , and went to Denmark , where he plundered during the summer but when he came south to Fyen he found a great force assembled against him . 
Then the king prepared to land his men from the ships and to engage in a land fight . 
The Danes pursued them vigorously , and many of the Northmen fell , and among them Kalf Arnason . 
Now King Harald landed with his array and they soon came on their way to the field of battle , where they found Kalf's body , and bore it down to the ships . 
But the king penetrated into the country , killing many people and destroying much . 
So says Arnor His shining sword with blood he stains , Upon Fyona's grassy plains And in the midst of fire and smoke , The king Fyona's forces broke . 
FIN ARNASON'S EXPEDITION OUT OF THE COUNTRY . 
Bright gold itself they would despise , Or healing leek herb underprize , If not still brought before their eyes . 
Fin Arnason took the business so much to heart that he left the country and went to Denmark to King Svein , where he met a friendly reception . 
They spoke together in private for a long time and the end of the business was that Fin went into King Svein's service , and became his man . 
King Svein then gave Fin an earldom , and placed him in Halland , where he was long earl and defended the country against the Northmen . 
Ketil Kalf and Gunhild of Ringanes had a son called Guthorm , and he was a sister's son to King Olaf and Harald Sigurdson . 
Guthorm was a gallant man , early advanced to manhood . 
He was often with King Harald , who loved him much , and asked his advice for he was of good understanding , and very popular . 
Guthorm had also been engaged early in forays , and had marauded much in the Western countries with a large force . 
Ireland was for him a land of peace and he had his winter quarters often in Dublin , and was in great friendship with King Margad . 
GUTHORM'S JUNCTION WITH THE IRISH KING MARGAD . 
The summer after King Margad , and Guthorm with him , went out on an expedition against Bretland , where they made immense booty . 
But when the king saw the quantity of silver which was gathered he wanted to have the whole booty , and regarded little his friendship for Guthorm . 
This was the day before St . 
Guthorm chose the condition that they would rather die or conquer like men , than suffer disgrace , contempt and scorn , by submitting to so great a loss . 
Then he arranged his men , placed them in battle order against the great force , prepared for battle , and gave the assault . 
By the help of God , and the holy Saint Olaf , Guthorm won the battle . 
The image thus produced was given by Guthorm to King Olaf of the Saint's temple , where it has since remained as a memorial of Guthorm's victory and King Olaf the Saint's miracle . 
MIRACLE OF KING OLAF IN DENMARK . 
There was a wicked , evil minded count in Denmark who had a Norwegian servant girl whose family belonged to Throndhjem district . 
She worshipped King Olaf the Saint , and believed firmly in his sanctity . 
She knew well the count's mad passion , and that he would revenge himself severely on her if she refused doing as he ordered . 
And now shall ye come to hear a well deserved vengeance , and a true miracle . 
Olaf's temple , and in other places and since that time O afsmas has been always held holy in Denmark . 
KING OLAF'S MIRACLE ON A CRIPPLE . 
West in Valland , a man had such bad health that he became a cripple , and went on his knees and elbows . 
One day he was upon the road , and had fallen asleep . 
He dreamt that a gallant man came up to him and asked him where he was going . 
When he named the neighbouring town , the man said to him , Go to Saint Olaf's church that stands in London , and there thou shalt be cured . 
There upon he awoke , and went straightway to inquire the road to Olaf's church in London . 
Soon after a man came up and asked him where he wanted to go , and he answered to Olaf's church . 
Then said the man , We shall both go together to Olaf's church , for I know the way to it . 
KING HARALD'S FORAY IN DENMARK . 
King Harald had built a merchant town in the East at Oslo , where he often resided for there was good supply from the extensive cultivated district wide around . 
One summer King Harald went from thence with a few light ships and a few men . 
He steered southwards out from Viken , and , when the wind served , stood over to Jutland , and marauded but the country people collected and defended the country . 
Then King Harald steered to Limfjord , and went into the fjord . 
Limfjord is so formed that its entrance is like a narrow river but when one gets farther into the fjord it spreads out into a wide sea . 
King Harald marauded on both sides of the land and when the Danes gathered together on every side to oppose him , he lay at a small island which was uncultivated . 
They wanted drink on board his ships , and went up into the island to seek water but finding none , they reported it to the king . 
He ordered them to look for some long earthworms on the island , and when they found one they brought it to the king . 
He ordered the people to bring the worm to a fire , and bake it before it , so that it should be thirsty . 
Then he ordered a thread to be tied round the tail of the worm , and to let it loose . 
The worm crept away immediately , while thread wound off from the clew as the worm took it away and the people followed the worm until it sought downwards in the earth . 
There the king ordered them to dig for water , which they did , and found so much water that they had no want of it . 
King Harald then steered with his fleet in through the fjord to where it was broadest to a place called Lusbreid . 
In the inmost bight , there is but a narrow neck of land dividing the fjord from the West sea . 
He then steered northwards along the Jutland coast . 
People then said that Harald had escaped from the hands of the Danes . 
Harald said that he would come to Denmark next time with more people and larger vessels . 
King Harald then proceeded north to Throndhjem . 
KING HARALD HAD A SHIP BUILT . 
and had a vessel built out upon the strand , and it was a buss . 
The ship was built of the same size as the Long Serpent , and every part of her was finished with the greatest care . 
On the stem was a dragon head , and on the stern a dragon tail , and the sides of the bows of the ship were gilt . 
King Harald during this winter called out a general levy of all the people of Norway , and assembled a great force towards spring . 
Then Harald had his great ship drawn down and put into the river Nid , and set up the dragon's head on her . 
Come , lovely girl , and see the show ! Her sides that on the water glow , Her serpent head with golden mane , All shining back from the Nid again . 
Then King Harald rigged out his ship , got ready for sea , and when he had all in order went out of the river . 
His men rowed very skilfully and beautifully . 
So says Thiodolf It was upon a Saturday , Ship tilts were struck and stowed away , And past the town our dragon glides , That girls might see our glancing sides . 
Out from the Nid brave Harald steers Westward at first the dragon veers Our lads together down with oars , The splash is echoed round the shores . 
Their oars our king's men handle well , One stroke is all the eye can tell All level o'er the water rise The girls look on in sweet surprise . 
Such things , they think , can ne'er give way The little know the battle day . 
The Danish girls , who dread our shout , Might wish our ship gear not so stout . 
'Tis in the fight , not on the wave , That oars may break and fail the brave . 
King Harald sailed south along the land , and called out the levy everywhere of men and ships . 
When they came east to Viken they got a strong wind against them and the forces lay dispersed about in the harbour some in the isles outside , and some in the fjords . 
So says Thiodolf The cutters' sea bleached bows scarce find A shelter from the furious wind Under the inland forests' side , Where the fjord runs its farthest tide . 
In all the isles and creeks around The bondes' ships lie on the ground , And ships with gunwales hung with shields Seek the lee side of the green fields . 
In the heavy storm that raged for some time the great ship had need of good ground tackle . 
So says Thiodolf With lofty bow above the seas , Which curl and fly before the breeze , The gallant vessel rides and reels , And every plunge her cable feels . 
The storm that tries the spar and mast Tries the main anchor at the last The storm above , below the rock , Chafe the thick cable with each shock . 
When the weather became favourable King Harald sailed eastwards to the Gaut river with his fleet and arrived there in the evening . 
The night passed o'er , the gallant king Next day at Thumia calls a Thing , Where Svein is challenged to appear A day which ravens wish were near . 
When the Danes heard that the Northmen's army was come to the Gaut river they all fled who had opportunity to get away . 
The Northmen heard that the Danish king had also called out his forces and lay in the south , partly at Fyen and partly about Seeland . 
A little afterwards King Svein came upon them with all the Danish fleet , consisting of ships . 
The king replied , Sooner shall all lie dead one upon another than fly . 
So says Thiodolf The brave king through his vessels' throng His dragon war ship moves along He runs her gaily to the front , To meet the coming battle's brunt . 
The ship was remarkably well equipt , and fully manned . 
So says Thiodolf The king had got a chosen crew He told his brave lads to stand true . 
The ring of shields seemed to enclose The ship's deck from the boarding foes . 
The dragon , on the Nis river flood , Beset with men , who thickly stood , Shield touching shield , was something rare , That seemed all force of man to dare . 
Ulf , the marshal , laid his ship by the side of the king's and ordered his men to bring her well forward . 
Stein Herdison , who was himself in Ulf's ship , sings of it thus Our oars were stowed , our lances high , As the ship moved swung in the sky . 
Hakon Ivarson lay outside on the other wing , and had many ships with him , all well equipt . 
At the extremity of the other side lay the Throndhjem chiefs , who had also a great and strong force . 
Although the difference among the men was great , altogether there was a very great force on both sides . 
King Svein had six earls among the people following him . 
So says Stein Herdison Danger our chief would never shun , With eight score ships he would not run The Danish fleet he would abide , And give close battle side by side . 
From Leire's coast the Danish king Three hundred ocean steeds could bring , And o'er the sea weed plain in haste Thought Harald's vessels would be chased . 
BEGINNING OF THE BATTLE OF NIS RIVER . 
As soon as King Harald was ready with his fleet , he orders the war blast to sound , and the men to row forward to the attack . 
The Norsemen prove , with sword in hand , That numbers cannot skill withstand . 
Off Halland's coast the blood of Danes The blue sea's calm smooth surface stains . 
Soon the battle began , and became very sharp both kings urging on their men . 
From fleet to fleet so short the way , That stones and arrows have full play And from the keen sword dropped the blood Of short lived seamen in the flood . 
It was late in the day when the battle began , and it continued the whole night . 
King Harald shot for a long time with his bow . 
So says Thiodolf The Upland king was all the night Speeding the arrows' deadly flight . 
Then a boat came rowing to the earl's ship and hailed him and said that the other wing of King Harald's fleet was giving way and many of their people had fallen . 
Then the earl rowed thither and gave so severe an assault that the Danes had to retreat before him . 
The earl went on in this way all the night , coming forward where he was most wanted , and wheresoever he came none could stand against him . 
Hakon rowed outside around the battle . 
Upon the wave his vessel drives All his brave crew had lost their lives . 
O'er dead courtmen into the sea The Jutland king had now to flee . 
And when King Svein's banner was cut down , and his ship cleared of its crew , all his forces took to flight , and some were killed . 
Where the king himself fought the ships were mostly bound together , and there were more than seventy left behind of King Svein's vessels . 
King Harald rowed after the Danes and pursued them but that was not easy , for the ships lay so thick together that they scarcely could move . 
Earl Fin Arnason would not flee and being also shortsighted , was taken prisoner . 
So says Thiodolf To the six Danish earls who came To aid his force , and raise his name , No mighty thanks King Svein is owing For mighty actions of their doing . 
Fin Arnason , in battle known , With a stout Norse heart of his own , Would not take flight his life to gain , And in the foremost ranks was ta'en . 
Then a man came rowing in a boat to the earl's ship and lay at the bulwarks . 
The man was stout and had on a white hat . 
He hailed the ship , Where is the earl ? said he . 
The earl was in the fore hold , stopping a man's blood . 
The earl cast a look at the man in the hat and asked what his name was . 
He answered , Here is Vandrad speak to me , earl . 
The earl leant over the ship's side to him . 
Then the man in the boat said , Earl , I will accept of my life from thee , if thou wilt give it . 
Thereupon they went into the boat and took the oars in hand , while Vandrad steered . 
This took place just about daybreak , while the vessels were in movement , some rowing towards the land , some towards the sea , both small and great . 
Vandrad steered along the shore , and only set in towards the land when they had come past the crowd of ships . 
They then went up to Karl the bonde's farm , and it was then beginning to be light . 
They went into the room where Karl had just put on his clothes . 
The earl's men told him their message and Karl said they must first take some food and he set a table before them and gave them water to wash with . 
Then came the housewife into the room and said , I wonder why we could get no peace or rest all night with the shouting and screaming . 
Karl replies , Dost thou not know that the kings were fighting all night ? She asked which had the better of it . 
Karl answered , The Northmen gained . 
Then , said she , our king will have taken flight . 
Nobody knows , says Karl , whether he has fled or is fallen . 
She says , What a useless sort of king we have ! He is both slow and frightened . 
Then said Vandrad , Frightened he is not but he is not lucky . 
Then Vandrad washed his hands but he took the towel and dried them right in the middle of the cloth . 
The housewife snatched the towel from him , and said , Thou hast been taught little good it is wasteful to wet the whole cloth at one time . 
Vandrad replies , I may yet come so far forward in the world as to be able to dry myself with the middle of the towel . 
Thereupon Karl set a table before them and Vandrad sat down between them . 
They ate for a while and then went out . 
The horse was saddled and Karl's son ready to follow him with another horse . 
They rode away to the forest and the earl's men returned to the boat , rowed to the earl's ship and told the success of their expedition . 
King Harald and his men followed the fugitives only a short way , and rowed back to the place where the deserted ships lay . 
Then King Harald had the greatest attention paid to the dead of his men , and had the wounds of the living bound up . 
The dead bodies of Svein's men were brought to the land , and he sent a message to the peasants to come and bury them . 
Then he let the booty be divided , and this took up some time . 
The earl replies , The Northmen find it very difficult now to conquer , and it is all the worse that thou hast the command of them . 
Then said King Harald , Wilt thou accept of life and safety , although thou hast not deserved it ? The earl replies , Not from thee , thou dog . 
The king Wilt thou , then , if thy relation Magnus gives thee quarter ? Magnus , King Harald's son , was then steering the ship . 
The earl replies , Can the whelp rule over life and quarter ? The king laughed , as if he found amusement in vexing him . 
Wilt thou accept thy life , then , from thy she relation Thorer ? The earl Is she here ? She is here , said the king . 
Earl Fin got life and quarter and the king kept him a while about him . 
The earl said , I accept of the offer willingly , and the more gratefully the sooner I get away from hence . 
The king afterwards let Earl Fin be landed and the traders going to Halland received him well . 
King Harald sailed from thence to Norway with his fleet and went first to Oslo , where he gave all his people leave to go home who wished to do so . 
King Svein , it is told , sat in Denmark all that winter , and had his kingdom as formerly . 
In winter he sent men north to Halland for Karl the bonde and his wife . 
When Karl came the king called him to him and asked him if he knew him , or thought he had ever seen him before . 
The king replies , I have to reward thee for all the days I have to live . 
Karl thanked the king for his promise , and said he had now but one thing to ask . 
The king asked what that was . 
Karl said that he would ask to take his wife with him . 
The king said , I will not let thee do that but I will provide thee a far better and more sensible wife . 
But thy wife can keep the bonde farm ye had before and she will have her living from it . 
The king gave Karl a great and valuable farm , and provided him a good marriage and he became a considerable man . 
This was reported far and wide and much praised and thus it came to be told in Norway . 
OF THE TALK OF THE COURT MEN . 
King Harald stayed in Oslo the winter after the battle at Nis river . 
Once some of them sat in a cellar and drank , and were very merry and talkative . 
They talked about the Nis river battle , and who had earne'd the greatest praise and renown . 
They all agreed that no man there had been at all equal to Earl Hakon . 
He was the boldest in arms , the quickest , and the most lucky what he did was of the greatest help , and he won the battle . 
King Harald , in the meantime , was out in the yard , and spoke with some people . 
He went then to the room door , and said , Every one here would willingly be called Hakon and then went his way . 
OF THE ATTEMPT TO TAKE EARL HAKON . 
Earl Hakon went in winter to the Uplands , and was all winter in his domains . 
He was much beloved by all the Uplanders . 
The others replied , that his best luck was his driving so many Danes to flight along with other men . 
The same man replied , It was greater luck that he gave King Svein quarter . 
One of the company said to him , Thou dost not know what thou art saying . 
He replied , I know it for certain , for the man told me himself who brought the king to the land . 
It went , according to the old proverb , that the king has many ears . 
This was told the king , and he immediately ordered horses to be gathered , and rode away directly with men . 
He rode all that night and the following day . 
Then some men met them who were riding to the town with mead and malt . 
In the king's retinue was a man called Gamal , who rode to one of these bondes who was an acquaintance of his , and spoke to him privately . 
They agreed on the payment . 
The bonde rode , and came to the earl just as he was sitting drinking , and had not yet gone to bed . 
When the king came he halted there all night but Hakon rode away , and came east to Svithjod to King Steinkel and stayed with him all summer . 
King Harald returned to the town , travelled northwards to Throndhjem district , and remained there all summer but in autumn he returned eastwards to Viken . 
, and remained there until the king had returned from the north . 
Then the earl went east into Vermaland , where he remained during the winter , and where the king , Steinkel , gave him fiefs . 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN KING HARALD AND KING SVEIN . 
This winter messengers and ambassadors went between Norway and Denmark , whose errand was that both Northmen and Danes should make peace , and a league with each other . 
and to ask the kings to agree to it . 
These messages gave favourable hopes of a peace and the matter proceeded so far that a meeting for peace was appointed at the Gaut river between King Harald and King Svein . 
When spring approached , both kings assembled many ships and people for this meeting . 
Here it is told that the two kings held the meeting that was agreed upon between them , and both came to the frontiers of their kingdoms . 
On to the south upon the waves Sailed forth our gallant northern king , Peace to the Danes with him to bring . 
Svein northward to his frontier hies To get the peace his people prize , And meet King Harald , whom he finds On land hard used by stormy winds . 
When the kings found each other , people began at once to talk of their being reconciled . 
It is here related Before this meeting of the kings Each bende his own losses brings , And loudly claims some recompense From his king's foes , at their expense . 
It is not easy to make peace , Where noise and talking never cease The bondes' warmth may quickly spread , And kings be by the people led . 
When kings are moved , no peace is sure For that peace only is secure Which they who make it fairly make , To each side give , from each side take . 
The kings will often rule but ill Who listen to the people's will The people often have no view But their own interests to pursue . 
This peace was confirmed by oath . 
King Harald with his people sailed northwards to Norway , and King Svein southwards to Denmark . 
KING HARALD'S BATTLE WITH EARL HAKON . 
Earl Hakon was then up in Gautland with a large armed force . 
When summer was past King Harald went south to Konungahella . 
Then he took all the light sailing vessels he could get hold of and steered up the river . 
He had the vessels drawn past all the waterfalls and brought them thus into the Wener lake . 
Earl Hakon had a large armed force which the Gautland people had raised for him . 
King Harald lay with his ships up in a river , and made a foray on land , but left some of his men behind to protect the ships . 
The king himself rode up with a part of the men , but the greater part were on foot . 
They drew up their people now on both sides . 
Then King Harald ordered his men to sit down on the hillside . 
We will first see if they will attack us . 
Earl Hakon does not usually wait to talk . 
It was frosty weather , with some snow drift , and Harald's men sat down under their shields but it was cold for the Gautlanders , who had but little clothing with them . 
The earl told them to wait until King Harald came nearer , so that all would stand equally high on the ground . 
Earl Hakon had the same banner which had belonged to King Magnus Olafson . 
The lagman of the Gautland people , Thorvid , sat upon a horse , and the bridle was fastened to a stake that stood in the mire . 
He broke out with these words God knows we have many brave and handsome fellows here , and we shall let King Steinkel hear that we stood by the good earl bravely . 
At that instant the Northmen sprang up , raised the war cry , and struck on their shields and the Gautland army began also to shout . 
The lagman's horse got shy with the war cry , and backed so hard that the stake flew up and struck the lagman on the head . 
He said , Ill luck to thee , Northman , for that arrow ! and away fled the lagman . 
The Northmen did not pursue the fugitives long , for it was the fall of day but they took Earl Hakon's banner and all the arms and clothes they could get hold of . 
King Harald had both the banners carried before him as they marched away . 
They spoke among themselves that the earl had probably fallen . 
As they were riding through the forest they could only ride singly , one following the other . 
When this was told the king he said , Bring me my armour , for the earl is alive . 
Then the king rode to his ships in the night and many said that the earl had now taken his revenge . 
DEATH OF HAL , THE MURDERER OF KODRAN . 
The king ordered his men to cut the ice from the ships all the way out to the clear water on which they all went to break the ice . 
King Harald's son , Magnus , steered the vessel that lay lowest down the river and nearest the water . 
When the people had cleared the ice away almost entirely , a man ran out to the ice , and began hewing away at it like a madman . 
See how he is hewing away at the ice . 
Kodran was a son of Gudmund Eyjolfson and Valgerd , who was a sister of Gudmund , was the mother of Jorun , and the grandmother by the mother's side of this Thormod . 
Thormod was a year old when Kodran was killed , and had never seen Hal Utrygson until now . 
Hal had been in the king's retinue , and was very dear to him so that the king was enraged at his death . 
He seized on the bondes and maimed some , killed others , and robbed many of all their property . 
They who could do it fled from him . 
He burned everything in the districts and laid them altogether waste . 
So says Thiodolf He who the island people drove , When they against his power strove , Now bridle's Raumarike's men , Marching his forces through their glen . 
To punish them the fire he lights That shines afar off in dark nights From house and yard , and , as he says , Will warn the man who disobeys . 
Thereafter the king went up to Hedemark , burnt the dwellings , and made no less waste and havoc there than in Raumarike . 
From thence he went to Hadeland and Ringerike , burning and ravaging all the land . 
So says Thiodolf The bonde's household goods are seen Before his door upon the green , Smoking and singed and sparks red hot Glow in the thatched roof of his cot . 
In Hedemark the bondes pray The king his crushing hand to stay In Ringerike and Hadeland , None 'gainst his fiery wrath can stand . 
Then the bondes left all to the king's mercy . 
After the death of King Magnus fifteen years had passed when the battle at Nis river took place , and afterwards two years elapsed before Harald and Svein made peace . 
So says Thiodolf The Hordland king under the land At anchor lay close to the strand , At last , prepared with shield and spear The peace was settled the third year . 
After this peace the disturbances with the people of the Upland districts lasted a year and a half . 
So says Thiodolf No easy task it is to say How the king brought beneath his sway The Upland bondes , and would give Nought but their ploughs from which to live . 
The king in eighteen months brought down Their bonde power , and raised his own , And the great honour he has gained Will still in memory be retained . 
OF THE KINGS OF ENGLAND . 
Edward , Ethelred's son , was king of England after his brother Hardacanute . 
He was called Edward the Good and so he was . 
King Edward's mother was Queen Emma , daughter of Richard , earl of Rouen . 
Her brother was Earl Robert , whose son was William the Bastard , who at that time was earl at Rouen in Normandy . 
King Edward's queen was Gyda , a daughter of Earl Godwin , the son of Ulfnad . 
The king loved him very much , and kept him as his own son for he had no children . 
They landed west in Normandy , after suffering from a dangerous storm . 
They brought up at Rouen , where they met Earl William , who received Harald and his company gladly . 
Harald sat on the high seat on one side of the earl and on the other side sat the earl's wife , one of the most beautiful women that could be seen . 
In one of their conversations she said to Harald , The earl has asked me what it is we have to talk about so much , for he is angry at it . 
Harald replies , We shall then at once let him know all our conversation . 
The following day , Harald asked the earl to a conference , and they went together into the conference chamber where also the queen was , and some of the councillors . 
Then Harald began thus I have to inform you , earl , that there lies more in my visit here than I have let you know . 
I would ask your daughter in marriage , and have often spoke over this matter with her mother , and she has promised to support my suit with you . 
As soon as Harald had made known this proposal of his , it was well received by all who were present . 
When spring came Harald rigged his ships and set off and he and the earl parted with great friendship . 
Harald sailed over to England to King Edward , but did not return to Valland to fulfill the marriage agreement . 
Edward was king over England for twenty three years and died on a bed of sickness in London on the th of January , and was buried in Paul's church . 
Englishmen call him a saint . 
HARALD GODWINSON MADE KING OF ENGLAND . 
The sons of Earl Godwin were the most powerful men in England . 
Toste was made chief of the English king's army , and was his land defence man when the king began to grow old and he was also placed above all the other earls . 
His brother Harald was always with the court itself , and nearest to the king in all service , and had the charge of the king's treasure chamber . 
It is said that when the king was approaching his last hour , Harald and a few others were with him . 
The meeting ended by choosing Harald as king , and he was consecrated and crowned the th day of Yule , in Paul's church . 
Then all the chiefs and all the people submitted to him . 
Now when his brother , Earl Toste , heard of this he took it very ill , as he thought himself quite as well entitled to be king . 
I want , said he , that the principal men of the country choose him whom they think best fitted for it . 
And sharp words passed between the brothers . 
King Harald says he will not give up his kingly dignity , for he is seated on the throne which kings sat upon , and is anointed and consecrated a king . 
On his side also was the strength of the people , for he had the king's whole treasure . 
EARL TOSTE'S EXPEDITION TO DENMARK . 
He therefore took the command of the army from Toste , and also all the power he had beyond that of the other earls of the country . 
Earl Ulf , King Svein's father , and Gyda , Earl Toste's mother , were brother's and sister's children . 
The king replied , So much smaller a man am I than Canute the Great , that I can with difficulty defend my own Danish dominions against the Northmen . 
Now it suits me much better to be guided by my own slender ability than to imitate my relation , King Canute's , lucky hits . 
Then the king and the earl parted , not just the best friends . 
EARL TOSTE'S EXPEDITION TO NORWAY . 
Earl Toste turned away then and went to Norway , where he presented himself to King Harald , who was at that time in Viken . 
When they met the earl explained his errand to the king . 
He told him all his proceedings since he left England , and asked his aid to recover his dominions in England . 
The king replied that the Northmen had no great desire for a campaign in England , and to have English chiefs over them there . 
People say , added he , that the English are not to be trusted . 
Then said the earl , If thou wilt not tell me , I will tell thee . 
Magnus subdued Denmark , because all the chiefs of the country helped him and thou hast not done it , because all the people of the country were against thee . 
Therefore , also , King Magnus did not strive for England , because all the nation would have Edward for king . 
King Harald weighed carefully the earl's words , and perceived at once that there was truth in much of what he said and he himself had also a great desire to acquire dominions . 
Then King Harald and the earl talked long and frequently together and at last he took the resolution to proceed in summer to England , and conquer the country . 
King Harald sent a message token through all Norway and ordered out a levy of one half of all the men in Norway able to carry arms . 
When this became generally known , there were many guesses about what might be the end of this expedition . 
Some reckoned up King Harald's great achievements , and thought he was also the man who could accomplish this . 
Ulf the marshal died that spring . 
King Harald stood over his grave , and said , as he was leaving it , There lies now the truest of men , and the most devoted to his king . 
King Harald's fleet assembled at the Solunds . 
Some say he threw them overboard outside of Agdanes and since then the shrine of Saint Olaf , the king , has never been opened . 
Thirty five years had passed since he was slain and he lived thirty five years here on earth . 
King Harald sailed with his ships he had about him to the south to meet his people , and a great fleet was collected so that . 
according to the people's reckoning , King Harald had nearly ships beside provision ships and small craft . 
While they lay at the Solunds a man called Gyrd , on board the king's ship , had a dream . 
He thought he was standing in the king's ship and saw a great witch wife standing on the island , with a fork in one hand and a trough in the other . 
Upon the stem I'll sail with them ! Upon the stem I'll sail with them ! . 
There was also a man called Thord , in a ship which lay not far from the king's . 
He dreamt one night that he saw King Harald's fleet coming to land , and he knew the land to be England . 
He saw a great battle array on the land and he thought both sides began to fight , and had many banners flapping in the air . 
And she sang thus Skade's eagle eyes The king's ill luck espies Though glancing shields Hide the green fields , The king's ill luck she spies . 
To bode the doom of this great king , The flesh of bleeding men I fling To hairy jaw and hungry maw ! To hairy jaw and hungry maw ! . 
Thy death is near Thy corpse , I fear , The crow will feed , The witch wife's steed . 
Many other dreams and forebodings were then told of , and most of them gloomy . 
Before King Harald left Throndhjem , he let his son Magnus be proclaimed king and set him as king over Norway while he was absent . 
Thora , the daughter of Thorberg , also remained behind but he took with him Queen Ellisif and her two daughters , Maria and Ingegerd . 
Olaf , King Harald's son , also accompanied his father abroad . 
Then he sailed , leaving Scotland and England westward of him , and landed at a place called Klifland . 
There he went on shore and plundered , and brought the country in subjection to him without opposition . 
Then he brought up at Skardaburg , and fought with the people of the place . 
The Northmen killed many people there and took all the booty they could lay hold of . 
There was nothing left for the Englishmen now , if they would preserve their lives , but to submit to King Harald and thus he subdued the country wherever he came . 
OF HARALD'S ORDER OF BATTLE . 
Thereafter the king sailed to the Humber , and up along the river , and then he landed . 
Up in Jorvik were two earls , Earl Morukare , and his brother , Earl Valthiof , and they had an immense army . 
While the army of the earls was coming down from the upper part of the country , King Harald lay in the Usa . 
King Harald now went on the land , and drew up his men . 
The earls let their army proceed slowly down along the river , with all their troops in line . 
The king's banner was next the river , where the line was thickest . 
It was thinnest at the ditch , where also the weakest of the men were . 
When the earls advanced downwards along the ditch , the arm of the Northmen's line which was at the ditch gave way and the Englishmen followed , thinking the Northmen would fly . 
The banner of Earl Morukare advanced then bravely . 
THE BATTLE AT THE HUMBER . 
When King Harald saw that the English array had come to the ditch against him , he ordered the charge to be sounded , and urged on his men . 
So says Stein Herdison The gallant Harald drove along , Flying but fighting , the whole throng . 
At last , confused , they could not fight , And the whole body took to flight . 
Up from the river's silent stream At once rose desperate splash and scream But they who stood like men this fray Round Morukare's body lay . 
This song was composed by Stein Herdison about Olaf , son of King Harald and he speaks of Olaf being in this battle with King Harald , his father . 
Earl Valthiof , and the people who escaped , fled up to the castle of York and there the greatest loss of men had been . 
Earl Toste had come from Flanders to King Harald as soon as he arrived in England , and the earl was present at all these battles . 
After the battle now told of , all people in the nearest districts submitted to Harald , but some fled . 
and as King Harald had gained so great a victory against so great chiefs and so great an army , the people were dismayed , and doubted if they could make any opposition . 
The men of the castle therefore determined , in a council , to send a message to King Harald , and deliver up the castle into his power . 
In the evening the king returned down to his ships , after this victory achieved with his own force , and was very merry . 
All the gates and walls were beset so that the Northmen could receive no intelligence , and the army remained all night in the town . 
On Monday , when King Harald Sigurdson had taken breakfast , he ordered the trumpets to sound for going on shore . 
The army accordingly got ready , and he divided the men into the parties who should go , and who should stay behind . 
In every division he allowed two men to land , and one to remain behind . 
The weather was uncommonly fine , and it was hot sunshine . 
The king halted his people , and called to him Earl Toste , and asked him what army this could be . 
Then the king said , We must all halt , to discover what kind of a force this is . 
They did so and the nearer this force came the greater it appeared , and their shining arms were to the sight like glancing ice . 
Then King Harald said , I have another counsel . 
Put three of our best horses under three of our briskest lads and let them ride with all speed to tell our people to come quickly to our relief . 
The Englishmen shall have a hard fray of it before we give ourselves up for lost . 
Then King Harald ordered his banner Land ravager to be set up and Frirek was the name of him who bore the banner . 
Then King Harald arranged his army , and made the line of battle long , but not deep . 
The king himself and his retinue were within the circle and there was the banner , and a body of chosen men . 
Earl Toste , with his retinue , was at another place , and had a different banner . 
The army was arranged in this way , because the king knew that horsemen were accustomed to ride forwards with great vigour , but to turn back immediately . 
Now the king ordered that his own and the earl's attendants should ride forwards where it was most required . 
King Harald Godwinson had come with an immense army , both of cavalry and infantry . 
Now King Harald Sigurdson rode around his array , to see how every part was drawn up . 
He was upon a black horse , and the horse stumbled under him , so that the king fell off . 
He got up in haste and said , A fall is lucky for a traveller . 
The English king said , A great man , and of stately appearance is he but I think his luck has left him . 
OF THE TROOP OF THE NOBILITY . 
Twenty horsemen rode forward from the Thing men's troops against the Northmen's array and all of them , and likewise their horses , were clothed in armour . 
One of the horsemen said , Is Earl Toste in this army ? The earl answered , It is not to be denied that ye will find him here . 
We shall rather all take the resolution to die with honour , or to gain England by a victory . 
Then the horseman rode back . 
King Harald Sigurdson said to the earl , Who was the man who spoke so well ? The earl replied , That was King Harald Godwinson . 
King Harald Sigurdson observed to his men , That was but a little man , yet he sat firmly in his stirrups . 
It is said that Harald made these verses at this time Advance ! advance ! No helmets glance , But blue swords play In our array . 
Advance ! advance ! No mail coats glance , But hearts are here That ne'er knew fear . 
His coat of mail was called Emma and it was so long that it reached almost to the middle of his leg , and so strong that no weapon ever pierced it . 
With eye and hand we fend the head Courage and skill stand in the stead Of panzer , helm , and shield , In hild's bloody field . 
OF THE BEGINNING OF THE BATTLE . 
The Englishmen made a hot assault upon the Northmen , who sustained it bravely . 
It was no easy matter for the English to ride against the Northmen on account of their spears therefore they rode in a circle around them . 
It was then very near with the English that they had taken to flight . 
So says Arnor , the earls' skald Where battle storm was ringing , Where arrow cloud was singing , Harald stood there , Of armour bare , His deadly sword still swinging . 
The foeman feel its bite His Norsemen rush to fight , Danger to share , With Harald there , Where steel on steel was ringing . 
King Harald Sigurdson was hit by an arrow in the windpipe , and that was his death wound . 
He fell , and all who had advanced with him , except those who retired with the banner . 
There was afterwards the warmest conflict , and Earl Toste had taken charge of the king's banner . 
They began on both sides to form their array again , and for a long time there was a pause in fighting . 
Then Thiodolf sang these verses The army stands in hushed dismay Stilled is the clamour of the fray . 
Harald is dead , and with him goes The spirit to withstand our foes . 
A bloody scat the folk must pay For their king's folly on this day . 
He fell and now , without disguise , We say this business was not wise . 
Then each side set up a war shout , and the battle began again . 
So says Arnor , the earls' skald The king , whose name would ill doers scare , The gold tipped arrow would not spare . 
Unhelmed , unpanzered , without shield , He fell among us in the field . 
The gallant men who saw him fall Would take no quarter one and all Resolved to die with their loved king , Around his corpse in a corpse ring . 
Eystein Orre came up at this moment from the ships with the men who followed him , and all were clad in armour . 
This conflict is called Orre's storm . 
At last they threw off their coats of ringmail , and then the Englishmen could easily lay their blows at them and many fell from weariness , and died without a wound . 
Thus almost all the chief men fell among the Norway people . 
Styrkar , King Harald Sigurdson's marshal , a gallant man , escaped upon a horse , on which he rode away in the evening . 
As soon as his weariness was over , he began to feel cold . 
A waggoner met him in a lined skin coat . 
Styrkar asks him , Wilt thou sell thy coat , friend ? Not to thee , says the peasant thou art a Northman that I can hear by thy tongue . 
Then Styrkar says , As you can't kill me , friend , I shall try if I can't kill you . 
And with that he swung his sword , and struck him on the neck , so that his head came off . 
He then took the skin coat , sprang on his horse , and rode down to the strand . 
Olaf Haraldson had not gone on land with the others , and when he heard of his father's fall he made ready to sail away with the men who remained . 
He thought , also , that he had grounds for avenging the affront that Harald had put upon him with respect to his daughter . 
From all these grounds William gathered together a great army in Normandy , and had many men , and sufficient transport shipping . 
His brother , Archbishop Otto , was with him and when the earl came to England he began to plunder , and take possession of the land as he came along . 
Earl William was stouter and stronger than other men a great horseman and warrior , but somewhat stern and a very sensible man , but not considered a man to be relied on . 
FALL OF KING HARALD GODWINSON . 
With King Harald went his brothers Svein and Gyrd , and Earl Valthiof . 
King Harald and Earl William met each other south in England at Helsingja port . 
There was a great battle in which King Harald and his brother Earl Gyrd and a great part of his men fell . 
This was the nineteenth day after the fall of King Harald Sigurdson . 
Earl Valthiof set fire to the wood , and they were all burnt . 
So says Thorkel Skallason in Valthiof's ballad Earl Valthiof the brave His foes a warming gave Within the blazing grove A hundred men he drove . 
The wolf will soon return , And the witch's horse will burn Her sharp claws in the ash , To taste the Frenchman's flesh . 
William was proclaimed king of England . 
He sent a message to Earl Valthiof that they should be reconciled , and gave him assurance of safety to come to the place of meeting . 
Thorkel tells of this William came o'er the sea , With bloody sword came he Cold heart and bloody hand Now rule the English land . 
Earl Valthiof he slew , Valthiof the brave and true . 
Cold heart and bloody hand Now rule the English land . 
William was after this king of England for twenty one years , and his descendants have been so ever since . 
OF OLAF HARALDSON'S EXPEDITION TO NORWAY . 
Olaf remained there all winter but the summer after he proceeded east to Norway , where he was proclaimed king along with his brother Magnus . 
Queen Ellisif came from the West , along with her stepson Olaf and her daughter Ingegerd . 
There came also with Olaf over the West sea Skule , a son of Earl Toste , and who since has been called the king's foster son , and his brother Ketil Krok . 
Both were gallant men , of high family in England , and both were very intelligent and the brothers were much beloved by King Olaf . 
Ketil Krok went north to Halogaland , where King Olaf procured him a good marriage , and from him are descended many great people . 
Skule , the king's foster son , was a very clever man , and the handsomest man that could be seen . 
and took part in all the country affairs with the king . 
The king offered to give Skule whatever district in Norway he liked , with all the income and duties that belonged to the king in it . 
Skule thanked him very much for the offer , but said he would rather have something else from him . 
For if there came a shift of kings , said he , the gift might come to nothing . 
I would rather take some properties lying near to the merchant towns , where you , sire , usually take up your abode , and then I would enjoy your Yule feasts . 
The king agreed to this , and conferred on him lands eastward at Konungahella , Oslo , Tunsberg , Sarpsborg , Bergen , and north at Nidaros . 
These were nearly the best properties at each place , and have since descended to the family branches which came from Skule . 
King Olaf gave Skule his female relative , Gudrun , the daughter of Nefstein , in marriage . 
Her mother was Ingerid , a daughter of Sigurd Syr and Asta , King Olaf the Saint's mother . 
Ingerid was a sister of King Olaf the Saint and of King Harald . 
Another instance of the old Norse or Icelandic tongue having been generally known in a part of England . 
One year after King Harald's fall his body was transported from England north to Nidaros , and was buried in Mary church , which he had built . 
He was , also , above all other men , bold , brave , and lucky , until his dying day , as above related and bravery is half victory . 
King Herald was a handsome man , of noble appearance his hair and beard yellow . 
He had a short beard , and long mustaches . 
The one eyebrow was somewhat higher than the other . 
He had large hands and feet but these were well made . 
His height was five ells . 
He was stern and severe to his enemies , and avenged cruelly all opposition or misdeed . 
King Harald was most greedy of power , and of all distinction and honour . 
He was bountiful to the friends who suited him . 
So says Thiodolf I got from him , in sea fight strong , A mark of gold for my ship song . 
Merit in any way He generously would pay . 
King Harald was fifty years old when he fell . 
We have no particular account of his youth before he was fifteen years old , when he was with his brother , King Olaf , at the battle of Stiklestad . 
He lived thirty five years after that , and in all that time was never free from care and war . 
King Harald never fled from battle , but often tried cunning ways to escape when he had to do with great superiority of forces . 
No modern dandy , with the most delicate hands , would find room for his hand to grasp or wield with case some of the swords of these Northmen . 
KING HARALD AND KING OLAF COMPARED . 
King Olaf forced the people into Christianity and good customs , and punished cruelly those who disobeyed . 
King Harald , again , marauded to obtain glory and power , forced all the people he could under his power , and died in another king's dominions . 
along with his brother , King Olaf . 
Thus there were two kings of Norway at that time and Magnus had the northern and Olaf the eastern part of the country . 
There was a levy in both kingdoms . 
Harald's sons called out the whole people in Norway for procuring men and ships , and Svein set out from the south with the Danish army . 
Verses were made on this occasion , viz . 
Ready for war or peace , King Olaf will not cease From foeman's hand To guard his land . 
King Olaf had both power and right , And the Saint's favour in the fight . 
The Saint will ne'er his kin forsake , And let Svein Ulfson Norway take . 
In this manner friendship was concluded between the kings and peace between the countries . 
King Magnus fell ill and died of the ringworm disease , after being ill for some time . 
He died and was buried at Nidaros . 
He was an amiable king and bewailed by the people . 
Snorri's account of Olaf Kyrre corresponds with the statements found in Agrip , Fagrskinna , and Morkinskinna . 
There are but few events in Olaf's long reign , and hence he is very appropriately called the Quiet . 
As Hildebrand says , this saga seems to be written simply to fill out the empty space between Harald Hardrade and Magnus Barefoot . 
Skalds quoted in this saga are Stein Herdison and Stuf . 
of his brother King Magnus . 
Olaf was a stout man , well grown in limbs and every one said a handsomer man could not be seen , nor of a nobler appearance . 
His hair was yellow as silk , and became him well his skin was white and fine over all his body his eyes beautiful , and his limbs well proportioned . 
He was rather silent in general , and did not speak much even at Things but he was merry in drinking parties . 
He loved drinking much , and was talkative enough then but quite peaceful . 
He was cheerful in conversation , peacefully inclined during all his reign , and loving gentleness and moderation in all things . 
He is for all a lucky star England he frightens from a war The stiff necked Danes he drives to peace Troubles by his good influence cease . 
OF KING OLAF'S MANNER OF LIVING . 
but King Olaf had his high seat made on a high bench across the room he also first had chimney places in the rooms , and the floors strewed both summer and winter . 
In King Olaf's time many merchant towns arose in Norway , and many new ones were founded . 
Thus King Olaf founded a merchant town at Bergen , where very soon many wealthy people settled themselves , and it was regularly frequented by merchants from foreign lands . 
He had the foundations laid for the large Christ church , which was to be a stone church but in his time there was little done to it . 
Besides , he completed the old Christ church , which was of wood . 
The great guild bell in Throndhjem , which was called the pride of the town , tolled to call together to these guilds . 
The guild brethren built Margaret's church in Nidaros of stone . 
In King Olaf's time there were general entertainments and hand in hand feasts . 
At this time also much unusual splendour and foreign customs and fashions in the cut of clothes were introduced as , for instance , costly hose plaited about the legs . 
The shoes were high , and all edged with silk , or even with gold . 
Many other kinds of wonderful ornaments were used at that time . 
FASHION OF KING OLAF'S COURT . 
He had also torch bearers , who held as many candles at the table as there were guests of distinction present . 
There was also a marshal's bench outside of the table circle , where the marshal and other persons of distinction sat with their faces towards the high seat . 
He whom the ravens watch with care , He who the gold rings does not spare , A golden horn full to the brink Gave me himself at Haug to drink . 
ARRANGEMENT OF KING OLAF'S COURT . 
I do not by any means do it merely to plague you , or to make your condition harder than formerly . 
King Svein Ulfson died ten years after the fall of both the Haralds . 
afterwards Olaf , King Svein's third son , for eight years . 
Then Eirik the Good , Svein's fourth son , for eight winters . 
He was brought up in the king's court . 
MIRACLES OF KING OLAF THE SAINT . 
This church was consecrated and called Christ Church and King Olaf's shrine was removed to it , and was placed before the altar , and many miracles took place there . 
She returned with great joy , praising God and King Olaf the Saint . 
OF THE SHRINE OF KING OLAF THE SAINT . 
There happened a circumstance in Nidaros , when King Olaf's coffin was being carried about through the streets , that it became so heavy that people could not lift it from the spot . 
The body was carried away , the street put in order again as it had been before , and the shrine carried on according to custom . 
KING OLAF WAS BLESSED WITH PEACE . 
In the days of King O af there were bountiful harvests in Norway and many good things . 
In no man's life had times been so good in Norway since the days of Harald Harfager . 
King O af modified for the better many a matter that his father had inaugurated and maintained with severity . 
He was generous , but a strict ruler , for he was a wise man , and well understood what was of advantage to the kingdom . 
There are many stories of his good works . 
How much he loved and how kind he was to the people may be seen from the following words , which he once spoke at a large banquet . 
He was happy and in the best of spirits , when one of his men said , It pleases us , sire , to see you so happy . 
He answered I have reason to be glad when I see my subjects sitting happy and free in a guild consecrated to my uncle , the sainted King Olaf . 
MEETING OF OLAF KYRRE AND CANUTE THE SAINT . 
King Olaf Kyrre was a great friend of his brother in law , the Danish king , Canute the holy . 
They appointed a meeting and met at the Gaut river at Konungahella , where the kings used to have their meetings . 
On the other hand , when King Harald , my father , went westward to England , he got his death there and at that time the best men in Norway followed him . 
Now I know my own capacity , and how little I am suited to be the leader so I would rather you should go , with my help and assistance . 
On the other hand he was enraged against the Danes , and laid heavy fines upon them . 
A BONDE WHO UNDERSTOOD THE LANGUAGE OF BIRDS . 
They said it was in the house of a bonde in one of the king's districts . 
There is an old bonde there who knows many things before they happen . 
We asked him about many things , which he explained to us nay , we even believe that he understands perfectly the language of birds . 
The king replies , How can ye believe such nonsense ? and insisted that it was wrong to put confidence in such things . 
They saw now a horse standing close to the house . 
Then said the king , Go there , and take that horse , and kill him . 
They replied , We would not like to do him such harm . 
The king I will command . 
Cut off the horse's head but take care of yourselves that ye let no blood come to the ground , and bear the horse out to my ship . 
Go then and bring to me the old man but tell him nothing of what has happened , as ye shall answer for it with your lives . 
They did as they were ordered , and then came to the old man , and told him the king's message . 
The king Show us the way round the ness , for here thou must be a good pilot . 
The old man went into his boat and rowed before the king's ship and when he had rowed a little way a crow came flying over the ship , and croaking hideously . 
The peasant listens to the crow . 
The king said , Do you think , bonde , that betokens anything ? Sire , that is certain , said he . 
Then another crow flies over the ship , and screeches dreadfully . 
The bonde was so ill hearing this that he could not row , and the oars hung loose in his hands . 
Then said the king , Thy mind is turned much to these crows , bonde , and to what they say . 
The bonde replies , Now I suspect it is true what they say . 
The third time the crow came flying screeching at its very worst , and almost settling on the ship . 
Now the bonde threw down his oars , regarded them no more , and stood up before the king . 
The bonde replied in a song The one year old' Mere nonsense told The two years' chatter Seemed senseless matter The three years' croak Of wonders spoke . 
The foul bird said My old mare's head I row along And , in her song , She said the thief Was the land's chief . 
So says Stein The pillar of our royal race Stands forth adorned with every grace . 
The man at arms a golden ring Boasts as the present of his king At the king's table sits the guest , By the king's bounty richly drest . 
King Olaf , Norway's royal son , Who from the English glory won , Pours out with ready giving hand His wealth on children of the land . 
Brave clothes to servants he awards , Helms and ring mail coats grace his guards Or axe and sword Har's warriors gain , And heavy armour for the plain . 
Gold , too , for service duly paid , Red gold all pure , and duly weighed , King Olaf gives be loves to pay All service in a royal way . 
OF KING OLAF KYRRE'S DEATH . 
King Olaf lived principally in his domains on his large farms . 
Once when he was east in Ranrike , on his estate of Haukby , he took the disease which ended in his death . 
for he was made king of Norway the year after King Harald's death . 
King Olaf's body was taken north to Nidaros , and buried in Christ church , which he himself had built there . 
He was the most amiable king of his time , and Norway was much improved in riches and cultivation during his reign . 
The greater part of the contents of this saga is also found in Agrip , Fagrskinna , and Morkinskinna . 
Magnus and his cousin Hakon became kings in , but Hakon ruled only two years and died in . 
King Magnus fell in the year . 
Skalds quoted are Bjorn Krephende , Thorkel Hamarskald , and Eldjarn . 
BEGINNING OF THE REIGN OF KING MAGNUS AND HIS COUSIN HAKON . 
Hakon relieved the Throndhjem people of all harbour duties , and gave them many other privileges . 
He did away with Yule gifts , and gained by this the good will of all the Throndhjem people . 
The people in Throndhjem sang this ballad about him Young Hakon was the Norseman's pride , And Steig Thorer was on his side . 
Young Hakon from the Upland came , With royal birth , and blood , and name . 
Young Hakon from the king demands His royal birthright , half the lands Magnus will not the kingdom break , The whole or nothing he will take . 
, and on his arrival went straight to the king's house , and there took up his abode . 
, and kept seven longships in the open water of the river Nid , abreast of the king's house . 
King Magnus was ill pleased with the great gifts which Hakon had given to the bondes to gain their favour , and thought it was so much given out of his own property . 
When King Hakon and Thorer observed this , they were alarmed for what Magnus might do and they thought it suspicious that Magnus kept long ships afloat rigged out , and with tents . 
The following spring , after Candlemas , King Magnus left the town in the night with his ships the tents up , and lights burning in the tents . 
They brought up at Hefring , remained there all night , and kindled a fire on the land . 
Hakon thanked the people for their support which they had given him , and got ready to travel east to Viken . 
Then King Hakon mounted his horse , and was ready to travel . 
All men promised him their good will and support whenever he required them , and the people followed him out to the foot of Steinbjorg . 
His body was carried north , and came to the merchant town just half a month after he left it . 
The whole townspeople went to meet the body , sorrowing , and the most of them weeping for all people loved him with sincere affection . 
King Hakon's body was interred in Christ church , and Hakon and Magnus had ruled the country for two years . 
Hakon was a man full twenty five years old , and was one of the chiefs the most beloved by all the people . 
He had made a journey to Bjarmaland , where he had given battle and gained a victory . 
OF A FORAY IN HALLAND . 
eastward to Viken but when spring approached he went southwards to Halland , and plundered far and wide . 
He laid waste Viskardal and many other districts , and returned with a great booty back to his own kingdom . 
So says Bjorn Krephende in his song on Magnus Through Halland wide around The clang and shriek resound The houses burn , The people mourn , Through Halland wide around . 
The Norse king strides in flame , Through Viskardal he came The fire sweeps , The widow weeps , The Norse king strides in flame . 
Here it is told that King Magnus made the greatest devastation through Halland . 
There was a man called Svein , a son of Harald Fietter . 
He was a Danish man by family , a great viking and champion , and a very clever man , and of high birth in his own country . 
Thereupon Thorer and Svein took counsel with each other , which they afterwards carried into effect , to raise , with Thorer's assistance , and his men , a troop against Magnus . 
But as Thorer was old and heavy , Svein took the command , and name of leader of the troop . 
In this design several chiefs took part , among whom the principal was Egil Aslakson of Aurland . 
Egil was a lenderman , and married to Ingebjorg , a daughter of Ogmund Thorbergson , a sister of Skopte of Giske . 
The rich and powerful man , Skjalg Erlingson , also joined their party . 
Thorer and Svein collected a troop in the Uplands , and went down through Raumsdal into Sunmore , and there collected vessels , with which they afterwards sailed north to Throndhjem . 
Svein and Thorer also met there with their people , fought with Sigurd , and gained the victory after giving him a great defeat and Sigurd fled , and joined King Magnus . 
, and remained there some time in the fjord , where many people joined them . 
King Magnus hearing this news immediately collected an army , and proceeded north to Throndhjem . 
Then they got hold of ships and sailed north to Halogaland . 
As soon as King Magnus was ready for sea , he sailed from Throndhjem in pursuit of them . 
Thorer and his party went north all the way to Bjarkey and Jon , with his son Vidkun , fled from thence . 
Thorer and his men robbed all the movable goods , and burnt the house , and a good long ship that belonged to Vidkun . 
Jon and Vidkun , this dark night , Will not be wandering without light . 
DEATH OF THORER AND EGIL . 
Jon and Vidkun travelled day and night till they met King Magnus . 
Svein and Thorer proceeded northwards with their men , and plundered far and wide in Halogaland . 
Thorer and Egil brought up at Hesjutun but Svein rowed out to sea , and some of their people rowed into the fjords . 
King Magnus pursued Thorer , and the vessels struck together while they were landing . 
Then all Thorer's men fled up the country , and Thorer was taken prisoner . 
Egil was also taken prisoner , for he would not leave his wife . 
King Magnus then ordered both of them to be taken out to Vambarholm and when they were leading Thorer from the ship he tottered on his legs . 
When he came to the gallows he said , Bad counsel comes to a bad end . 
King Magnus sat near while they were being hanged , and was in such a rage that none of his men was so bold as to ask mercy for them . 
The king said , when Egil was spinning at the gallows , Thy great friends help thee but poorly in time of need . 
From this people supposed that the king only wanted to have been entreated to have spared Egil's life . 
Have ye not heard how the king's sword Punished the traitors to their lord ? How the king's thralls hung on the gallows Old Thorer and his traitor fellows ? . 
OF THE PUNISHMENT OF THE THRONDHJEM PEOPLE . 
So says Bjorn Krephende He who despises fence of shields Drove terror through the Throndhjem fields , When all the land through which he came Was swimming in a flood of flame . 
The raven feeder , will I know , Cut off two chieftans at a blow The wolf could scarcely ravenous be , The ernes flew round the gallows tree . 
King Magnus had now alone the whole kingdom , and he kept good peace in the land , and rooted out all vikings and lawless men . 
He was a man quick , warlike , and able , and more like in all things to his grandfather , King Harald , in disposition and talents than to his father . 
OF THE BONDE SVEINKE , AND SIGURD ULSTRENG . 
There was a man called Sveinke Steinarson , who was very wealthy , and dwelt in Viken at the Gaut river . 
He had brought up Hakon Magnuson before Thorer of Steig took him . 
Sveinke had not yet submitted to King Magnus . 
King Magnus ordered Sigurd Ulstreng to be called , and told him he would send him to Sveinke with the command that he should quit the king's land and domain . 
He has not yet submitted to us , or shown us due honour . 
He added , that there were some lendermen east in Viken , namely Svein Bryggjufot , Dag Eilifson , and Kolbjorn Klakke , who could bring this matter into right bearing . 
Then Sigurd said , I did not know there was the man in Norway against whom three lendermen besides myself were needful . 
The king replied , Thou needst not take this help , unless it be necessary . 
Now Sigurd made himself ready for the journey with a ship , sailed east to Viken , and there summoned the lendermen to him . 
Then a Thing was appointed to Viken , to which the people were called who dwelt on the Gaut river , besides others so that it was a numerous assembly . 
When the Thing was formed they had to wait for Sveinke . 
All were clad in iron , with glowing arms , and in number . 
Then Sigurd stood up , and spoke . 
Now the king will , with all cheerfulness and peace , show himself a gracious master to all who will submit to him , and to all in his dominions . 
He will be the leader and defender of all the men of Norway and it will be good for you to accept his gracious speech , and this offer . 
He looked sternly , and said , Here is no need of wheels , says the fox , when he draws the trap over the ice . 
He said nothing more , but sat down again . 
But now I shall produce more clearly the king's errand . 
Thereupon he demanded land dues and levy dues , together with all other rights of the king , from the great bondes . 
And then he sat down . 
Then he sat himself down again . 
Soon after Sigurd arose , after speaking with the lendermen , and said that so weighty a message as the king's ought not to be treated lightly as a jest . 
He was now somewhat angry and added , that they ought not to receive the king's message and errand so scornfully , for it was not decent . 
He was dressed in a red or scarlet coat , and had a blue coat over it . 
We do not require now to be taught by others for now we can see ourselves how much we are regarded . 
But this may be borne with but not that ye treat so scornfully the king's message . 
Thereby every one shows how highly he considers himself . 
They were a night in every house , and stole wherever they came . 
Wilt thou drive me out of the country ? Formerly thou wast not so mighty , and thy pride was less when King Hakon , my foster son , was in life . 
Let us stand up and attack him . 
Then all his men stood up , and made a great clash with their weapons . 
Then Svein Bryggjufot and the other lendermen saw there was no other chance for Sigurd but to get him on horseback , which was done , and he rode off into the forest . 
The king told them he would seek out Sveinke . 
For I will not conceal my suspicion that he thinks to make himself king of Norway . 
They said that Sveinke was both a powerful and an ungovernable man . 
Now the king went from Viken until he came to Sveinke's farm . 
The lendermen held up a white shield in the air , as a peace token and when Sveinke saw it he halted his men , and they approached each other . 
Kolbjorn offered to mediate peace between them , if he could , and told him to halt his troops . 
Sveinke said he would wait for them where he was . 
We came out to meet you , he said , that ye might not tread down our corn fields . 
The lendermen returned to the king , and told him all was now at his pleasure . 
The king said , My doom is soon delivered . 
He shall fly the country , and never come back to Norway as long as the kingdom is mine and he shall leave all his goods behind . 
Consider of this , sire , by yourself , and have respect for our assurance . 
The king replied , Let him then go forth immediately . 
It is for the honour of both that thou shouldst show obedience to the king . 
It appears to me better to die upon my property than to fly from my udal estates . 
Tell the king that I will not stir from them even an arrow flight . 
Hear our promises , and pay some attention to our errand . 
We offer thee to manage thy estates , and take them faithfully under our protection and also never , against thy will , to pay scat for thy land until thou comest back . 
We will pledge our lives and properties upon this . 
Do not throw away good counsel from thee , and avoid thus the ill fortune of other good men . 
Then Sveinke was silent for a short time , and said at last , Your endeavours are wise but I have my suspicions that ye are changing a little the king's message . 
Tell the king , also , these my words , that I do this on your account , not on his . 
Thereupon they returned to the king , and said , that Sveinke left all in the king's hands . 
But entreats you to have respect to his honour . 
He will be away for three years , and then come back , if it be the king's pleasure . 
The king replied , Ye treat this matter like men , and , for your sakes , shall all things be as ye desire . 
They thanked the king , and then went to Sveinke , and told him the king's gracious intentions . 
We will be glad , said they , if ye can be reconciled . 
It will be to thy own future honour , therefore , to agree to this . 
Thereupon he went home with his men , and set off directly for he had prepared everything beforehand . 
Kolbjorn remains behind , and makes ready a feast for King Magnus , which also was thought of and prepared . 
Sveinke , on the other hand , rides up to Gautland with all the men he thought proper to take with him . 
The king let himself be entertained in guest quarters at his house , returned to Viken , and Sveinke's estates were nominally the king's , but Kolbjorn had them under his charge . 
It appeared to him , therefore , most suitable and advisable to make Sveinke himself oppose the stream , and twice he sent messages to him . 
KING MAGNUS MAKES WAR ON THE SOUTHERN HEBUDES . 
King Magnus undertook an expedition out of the country , with many fine men and a good assortment of shipping . 
With this armament he sailed out into the West sea , and first came to the Orkney Islands . 
So says Bjorn Krephende In Lewis Isle with fearful blaze The house destroying fire plays To hills and rocks the people fly , Fearing all shelter but the sky . 
In Uist the king deep crimson made The lightning of his glancing blade The peasant lost his land and life Who dared to bide the Norseman's strife . 
The hunger battle birds were filled In Skye with blood of foemen killed , And wolves on Tyree's lonely shore Dyed red their hairy jaws in gore . 
The men of Mull were tired of flight The Scottish foemen would not fight , And many an island girl's wail Was heard as through the isles we strife sail . 
OF LAGMAN , KING GUDROD'S SON . 
, and gave peace and safety to all men there . 
So says Bjorn Krephende On Sandey's plain our shield they spy From Isla smoke rose heaven high , Whirling up from the flashing blaze The king's men o'er the island raise . 
South of Cantire the people fled , Scared by our swords in blood dyed red , And our brave champion onward goes To meet in Man the Norseman's foes . 
was the name of the son of Gudrod , king of the Hebudes . 
The king put him in irons to secure him . 
So says Bjorn Krephende To Gudrod's son no rock or cave , Shore side or hill , a refuge gave Hunted around from isle to isle , This Lawman found no safe asyle . 
From isle to isle , o'er firth and sound , Close on his track his foe he found . 
At Ness the Agder chief at length Seized him , and iron chained his strength . 
OF THE FALL OF EARL HUGE THE BRAVE . 
They began immediately to give battle , and there was a severe conflict . 
King Magnus shot with the bow but Huge the Brave was all over in armour , so that nothing was bare about him excepting one eye . 
King Magnus let fly an arrow at him , as also did a Halogaland man who was beside the king . 
They both shot at once . 
Earl Huge fell , and the Britons fled with the loss of many people . 
So says Bjorn Krephende The swinger of the sword Stood by Anglesey's ford His quick shaft flew , And Huge slew . 
His sword gleamed a while O'er Anglesey Isle , And his Norsemen's band Scoured the Anglesey land . 
Up in the land in deadly strife Our Norse king took Earl Huge's life . 
King Magnus gained the victory in this battle , and then took Anglesey Isle , which was the farthest south the Norway kings of former days had ever extended their rule . 
Anglesey is a third part of Wales . 
After this battle King Magnus turned back with his fleet , and came first to Scotland . 
Now when King Magnus came north to Cantire , he had a skiff drawn over the strand at Cantire , and shipped the rudder of it . 
The king himself sat in the stern sheets , and held the tiller and thus he appropriated to himself the land that lay on the farboard side . 
DEATH OF THE EARLS OF ORKNEY . 
King Magnus contracted in marriage his son Sigurd to Biadmynia , King Myrkjartan's daughter . 
Myrkjartan was a son of the Irish king Thialfe , and ruled over Connaught . 
The summer after , King Magnus , with his fleet , returned east to Norway . 
Earl Erland died of sickness at Nidaros , and is buried there and Earl Paul died in Bergen . 
Skopte Ogmundson , a grandson of Thorberg , was a gallant lenderman , who dwelt at Giske in Sunmore , and was married to Gudrun , a daughter of Thord Folason . 
Their children were Ogmund , Fin , Thord , and Thora , who was married to Asolf Skulason . 
Skopte's and Gudrun's sons were the most promising and popular men in their youth . 
QUARRELS OF KING MAGNUS AND KING INGE . 
as the two Haralds fell , and the king who came after him in Svithjod was called Hakon . 
When the work was finished , provisions and other necessaries that might be required were brought to it . 
The king left in it men , who were the chosen of his forces , and Fin Skoptason and Sigurd Ulstreng as their commanders . 
The king himself returned to Viken . 
But when the ice set in upon the Vener lake King Inge rode down , and had near men with him . 
He sent a message to the Northmen who sat in the burgh that they might retire with all the booty they had taken , and go to Norway . 
The king made an assault upon them , and they shot at each other . 
Thereafter a large pile of wood was set on fire , and the lighted brands were flung in among them . 
Then the Northmen asked for quarter . 
The king ordered them to go out without weapons or cloaks . 
As they went out each of them received a stroke with a whip , and then they set off for Norway , and all the forest men submitted again to King Inge . 
Sigurd and his people went to King Magnus , and told him their misfortune . 
When King Magnus was east in Viken , there came to him a foreigner called Giparde . 
He gave himself out for a good knight , and offered his services to King Magnus for he understood that in the king's dominions there was something to be done . 
The king received him well . 
He had then a great force in arms , and the West Gautlanders in the northern districts submitted to him . 
He set up his camp on the borders , intending to make a foray from thence . 
They met at Foxerne and when he was drawing up his men in battle order he asked , Where is Giparde ? but he was not to be found . 
When swords were wet the knight was slow With his bay horse in front to go The foreign knight could not abide Our rough array , and went to hide . 
There was a great slaughter , and after the battle the field was covered with the Swedes slain , and King Inge escaped by flight . 
King Magnus gained a great victory . 
Then came Giparde riding down from the country , and people did not speak well of him for not being in the fight . 
He went away , and proceeded westward to England and the voyage was stormy , and Giparde lay in bed . 
Here , ply this bucket ! bale who can We need the work of every man . 
Our sea horse stands full to the breast , Sluggards and cowards must not rest . 
When they came west to England , Giparde said the Northmen had slandered him . 
A meeting was appointed , and a count came to it , and the case was brought before him for trial . 
But let us hear what it was . 
Then Eldjarn sang I heard that in the bloody fight Giparde drove all our foes to flight Brave Giparde would the foe abide , While all our men ran off to hide . 
At Foxerne the fight was won By Giparde's valour all alone Where Giparde fought , alone was he Not one survived to fight or flee . 
Then said the count , Although I know but little about skald craft , I can hear that this is no slander , but rather the highest praise and honour . 
Giparde could say nothing against it , yet he felt it was a mockery . 
King Magnus fled , and the Gautlanders pursued , and killed those they could get near . 
King Magnus was easily known . 
He was a very stout man , and had a red short cloak over him , and bright yellow hair like silk that fell over his shoulders . 
Ogmund Skoptason , who was a tall and handsome man , rode on one side of the king . 
He said , Sire , give me that cloak . 
The king said , What would you do with it ? I would like to have it , said Ogmund and you have given me greater gifts , sire . 
The king gave Ogmund the cloak and he put it on . 
When they came out again upon the plain ground , Ogmund and his people rode off right across the road . 
The Gautlanders , supposing this must be the king , rode all after him , and the king proceeded to the ships . 
Ogmund escaped with great difficulty however , he reached the ships at last in safety . 
King Magnus then sailed down the river , and proceeded north to Viken . 
MEETING OF THE KINGS AT THE GAUT RIVER . 
Now when the Thing had sat down the kings went forward upon the plain , apart from the rest of the people , and they talked with each other a little while . 
King Magnus should marry King Inge's daughter Margaret , who afterwards was called Peace offering . 
This was proclaimed to the people and thus , within a little hour , the greatest enemies were made the best of friends . 
It was observed by the people that none had ever seen men with more of the air of chiefs than these had . 
King Inge was the largest and stoutest , and , from his age , of the most dignified appearance . 
King Magnus appeared the most gallant and brisk , and King Eirik the most handsome . 
But they were all handsome men stout , gallant , and ready in speech . 
After this was settled they parted . 
King Magnus got Margaret , King Inge's daughter , as above related and she was sent from Svithjod to Norway with an honourable retinue . 
King Magnus had some children before , whose names shall here be given . 
The one of his sons who was of a mean mother was called Eystein the other , who was a year younger , was called Sigurd , and his mother's name was Thora . 
They went about on the streets with bare legs , and had short kirtles and over cloaks and therefore his men called him Magnus Barefoot or Bareleg . 
Some called him Magnus the Tall , others Magnus the Strife lover . 
He was distinguished among other men by his tall stature . 
The mark of his height is put down in Mary church , in the merchant town of Nidaros , which King Harald built . 
The upper was Harald's cross the lowest was Magnus's and Olaf's was in the middle , about equally distant from both . 
My time feels long in Thing affairs , In Things my loved one ne'er appears . 
OF THE QUARREL OF KING MAGNUS AND SKOPTE . 
The king was just the same on this point , and his resolution was by no means softened by such a speech . 
Then Fin Skoptason went to the king , spoke with him , and entreated him to render justice to the father and son in this business . 
The king answers angrily and sharply . 
The king was not to be moved by this speech , and Fin returned home . 
The king insisted that the right was on his side , and said they were particularly impudent . 
This I shall add , that never again shall I come into thy service nor my father , if I can help it . 
Then Ogmund went home , and they never saw each other again . 
The spring after , Skopte Ogmundson made ready to travel out of the country . 
They had five long ships all well equipped . 
His sons , Ogmund , Fin , and Thord , accompanied him on this journey . 
It was very late before they were ready , and in autumn they went over to Flanders , and wintered there . 
Early in spring they sailed westward to Valland , and stayed there all summer . 
Then they sailed further , and through Norvasund and came in autumn to Rome , where Skopte died . 
All , both father and sons , died on this journey . 
Thord , who died in Sicily , lived the longest . 
It is a common saying among the people that Skopte was the first Northman who sailed through Norvasund and this voyage was much celebrated . 
MIRACLE OF KING OLAF THE SAINT AT A FIRE . 
where King Olaf reposes , that there broke out a fire in the town which spread around . 
Then Olaf's shrine was taken out of the church , and set up opposite the fire . 
MIRACLE OF KING OLAF ON A LAME WOMAN . 
It happened once in the merchant town that a woman was brought to the place where the holy King Olaf reposes . 
She was so miserably shaped , that she was altogether crumpled up so that both her feet lay in a circle against her loins . 
Before she could not creep there , and now she went away active and brisk to her family and home . 
, he equipped himself to go out of the country with a great force . 
He sailed out into the West sea with the finest men who could be got in Norway . 
King Magnus sailed to Ireland with his fleet , and plundered there . 
King Myrkjartan came to his assistance , and they conquered a great part of the country , both Dublin and Dyflinnarskire . 
up in Connaught with King Myrkjartan , but set men to defend the country he had taken . 
KING MAGNUS'S FORAY ON THE LAND . 
King Magnus rigged his ships , and intended returning to Norway , but set his men to defend the country of Dublin . 
He lay at Ulster ready for sea with his whole fleet . 
When they came somewhat farther , they reached a height from which they had a wide view . 
They halted there and Eyvind Olboge said , How , sire , do you intend to direct the march ? The men think we are advancing imprudently . 
You know the Irish are treacherous think , therefore , of a good counsel for your men . 
Then the king said , Let us draw up our men , and be ready , if there be treachery . 
This was done , and the king and Eyvind went before the line . 
, and handgrip wound about with gold thread and the sword was extremely sharp . 
Eyvind had also a red silk cloak like the king's and he also was a stout , handsome , warlike man . 
When the dust cloud approached nearer they knew their own men , who were driving the cattle . 
The Irish king had been faithful to the promises he had given the king , and had sent them . 
Thereupon they all turned towards the ships , and it was mid day . 
The Northmen were going divided in various heaps , so that many of them fell . 
Then said Eyvind to the king , Unfortunate is this march to our people , and we must instantly hit upon some good plan . 
The Irish shot boldly and although they fell in crowds , there came always two in the place of one . 
Now when the king had come to the nearest ditch there was a very difficult crossing , and few places were passable so that many Northmen fell there . 
Then the king called to his lenderman Thorgrim Skinhufa , who was an Upland man , and ordered him to go over the ditch with his division . 
We shall defend you , said he , in the meantime , so that no harm shall come to you . 
Go out then to those holms , and shoot at them from thence for ye are good bowmen . 
When Thorgrim and his men came over the ditch they cast their shields behind their backs , and set off to the ships . 
When the king saw this , he said , Thou art deserting thy king in an unmanly way . 
I was foolish in making thee a lenderman , and driving Sigurd Hund out of the country for never would he have behaved so . 
King Magnus received a wound , being pierced by a spear through both thighs above the knees . 
The king laid hold of the shaft between his legs , broke the spear in two , and said , Thus we break spear shafts , my lads let us go briskly on . 
A little after King Magnus was struck in the neck with an Irish axe , and this was his death wound . 
Then those who were behind fled . 
Vidkun was the last man who fled the other next to him was Sigurd Hranason , and the third before him , Dag Eilifson . 
There fell with King Magnus , Eyvind Olboge , Ulf Hranason , and many other great people . 
Many of the Northmen fell , but many more of the Irish . 
The Northmen who escaped sailed away immediately in autumn . 
Erling , Earl Erlend's'son , fell with King Magnus in Ireland but the men who fled from Ireland came to the Orkney Islands . 
OF KING MAGNUS AND VIDKUN JONSON . 
, and in his days there was good peace kept within the country but the people were sorely oppressed with levies . 
King Magnus was beloved by his men , but the bondes thought him harsh . 
King Magnus was nearly thirty years of age when he fell . 
Vidkun did not fly until he had killed the man who gave the king his mortal wound , and for this cause King Magnus's sons had him in the most affectionate regard . 
SAGA OF SIGURD THE CRUSADER AND HIS BROTHERS EYSTEIN AND OLAF . 
Agrip , Fagrskinna , and Morkinskinna more or less complete the story of the sons of Magnus . 
They contain some things omitted by Snorre , while , on the other hand , some facts related by Snorre are not found in the above sources . 
The three brothers became kings in the year A. D. . 
Olaf died , Eystein or , Sigurd . 
Skalds quoted in this saga are Thorarin Stutfeld , Einar Skulason , Haldor Skvaldre , and Arne Fjoruskeif . 
BEGINNING OF THE REIGN OF KING MAGNUS'S SONS . 
After King Magnus Barefoot's fall , his sons , Eystein , Sigurd , and Olaf , took the kingdom of Norway . 
Eystein got the northern , and Sigurd the southern part of the country . 
King Olaf was then four or five years old , and the third part of the country which he had was under the management of his two brothers . 
King Sigurd was chosen king when he was thirteen or fourteen years old , and Eystein was a year older . 
King Sigurd left west of the sea the Irish king's daughter . 
When King Magnus's sons were chosen kings , the men who had followed Skopte Ogmundson returned home . 
Some had been to Jerusalem , some to Constantinople and there they had made themselves renowned , and they had many kinds of novelties to talk about . 
Then these Northmen desired much that one of the two kings , either Eystein or Sigurd , should go as commander of the troop which was preparing for this expedition . 
The kings agreed to this , and carried on the equipment at their common expense . 
OF THE EARLS OF ORKNEY . 
A year or two after King Magnus Barefoot's fall , Hakon , a son of Earl Paul , came from Orkney . 
KING SIGURD'S JOURNEY OUT OF THE COUNTRY . 
, King Sigurd sailed with his people from Norway . 
He had then sixty ships . 
So says Thorarin Stutfeld A young king just and kind , People of loyal mind Such brave men soon agree , To distant lands they sail with glee . 
To the distant Holy Land A brave and pious band , Magnificent and gay , In sixty long ships glide away . 
King Sigurd sailed in autumn to England , where Henry , son of William the Bastard , was then king , and Sigurd remained with him all winter . 
So says Einar Skulason The king is on the waves ! The storm he boldly braves . 
His ocean steed , With winged speed , O'er the white flashing surges , To England's coast he urges And there he stays the winter o'er More gallant king ne'er trod that shore . 
, and in autumn came to Galicia , where he stayed the second winter . 
Our brave king will endure no ill , The hawks with him will get their fill . 
It began then to be difficult to get food and necessaries , for it is a poor barren land . 
Then King Sigurd with a great body of men went against a castle which belonged to the earl and the earl fled from it , having but few people . 
King Sigurd took there a great deal of victuals and of other booty , which he put on board of his ships , and then made ready and proceeded westward to Spain . 
This was his first battle with heathen men and he won it , and took eight galleys from them . 
So says Haldor Skvaldre Bold vikings , not slow To the death fray to go , Meet our Norse king by chance , And their galleys advance . 
The bold vikings lost Many a man of their host , And eight galleys too , With cargo and crew . 
Thereafter King Sigurd sailed against a castle called Sintre and fought another battle . 
This castle is in Spain , and was occupied by many heathens , who from thence plundered Christian people . 
King Sigurd took the castle , and killed every man in it , because they refused to be baptized and he got there an immense booty . 
So says Haldor Skvaldre From Spain I have much news to tell Of what our generous king befell . 
And first he routs the viking crew , At Cintra next the heathens slew The men he treated as God's foes , Who dared the true faith to oppose . 
No man he spared who would not take The Christian faith for Jesus' sake . 
There King Sigurd had his third battle with the heathens , and gained the victory , and with it a great booty . 
So says Haldor Skvaldre The son of kings on Lisbon's plains A third and bloody battle gains . 
He and his Norsemen boldly land , Running their stout ships on the strand . 
They got there also immense booty . 
So says Haldor Skvaldre A fourth great battle , I am told , Our Norse king and his people hold At Alkasse and here again The victory fell to our Norsemen . 
And also this verse I heard that through the town he went , And heathen widows' wild lament Resounded in the empty halls For every townsman flies or falls . 
BATTLE IN THE ISLAND FORMINTERRA . 
He gained the victory here also . 
So says Haldor Skvaldre Ye moistened your dry swords with blood , As through Norfasund ye stood The screaming raven got a feast , As ye sailed onward to the East . 
King Sigurd then sailed eastward along the coast of Serkland , and came to an island there called Forminterra . 
There a great many heathen Moors had taken up their dwelling in a cave , and had built a strong stone wall before its mouth . 
They harried the country all round , and carried all their booty to their cave . 
Then Sigurd fell upon this plan . 
Then Sigurd with his troops climbed up the precipice to the foot of the stone wall , which they succeeded in breaking down , so that they came into the cave . 
So says Halder Skvaldre Forminterra lay In the victor's way His ships' stems fly To victory . 
The bluemen there Must fire bear , And Norsemen's steel At their hearts feel . 
And also Thorarin Stutfeld says The king's men up the mountain's side Drag two boats from the ocean's tide The two boats lay , Like hill wolves grey . 
Now o'er the rock in ropes they're swinging Well manned , and death to bluemen bringing They hang before The robber's door . 
OF THE BATTLES OF IVIZA AND MINORCA . 
, and had there his seventh battle , and gained a victory . 
So says Haldor Skvaldre His ships at Ivica now ride , The king's , whose fame spreads far and wide And hear the bearers of the shield Their arms again in battle wield . 
, and held there his eighth battle with heathen men , and gained the victory . 
So says Haldor Skvaldre On green Minorca's plains The eighth battle now he gains Again the heathen foe Falls at the Norse king's blow . 
DUKE ROGER MADE A KING . 
, and remained a long time there . 
There was then a Duke Roger in Sicily , who received the king kindly , and invited him to a feast . 
King Sigurd came to it with a great retinue , and was splendidly entertained . 
King Roger of Sicily was a very great king . 
He won and subdued all Apulia , and many large islands besides in the Greek sea and therefore he was called Roger the Great . 
His son was William , king of Sicily , who for a long time had great hostility with the emperor of Constantinople . 
King William had three daughters , but no son . 
One of his daughters he married to the Emperor Henry , a son of the Emperor Frederik and their son was Frederik , who for a short time after was emperor of Rome . 
His second daughter was married to the Duke of Kipr . 
The third daughter , Margaret , was married to the chief of the corsairs but the Emperor Henry killed both these brothers in law . 
The daughter of Roger the Great , king of Sicily , was married to the Emperor Manuel of Constantinople and their son was the Emperor Kirjalax . 
KING SIGURD'S EXPEDITION TO PALESTINE . 
King Sigurd sailed across the Greek sea to Palestine , and thereupon went up to Jerusalem , where he met Baldwin , king of Palestine . 
King Baldwin received him particularly well , and rode with him all the way to the river Jordan , and then back to the city of Jerusalem . 
At Acre scarce were we made fast , In holy ground our anchors cast , When the king made a joyful morn To all who toil with him had borne . 
All sin and evil from him flings In Jordan's wave for all his sins he pardon wins . 
King Sigurd stayed a long time in the land of Jerusalem in autumn , and in the beginning of winter . 
King Baldwin made a magnificent feast for King Sigurd and many of his people , and gave him many holy relics . 
After this King Sigurd returned to his ships at Acre and then King Baldwin prepared to go to Syria , to a heathen town called Saet . 
King Sigurd made a present of his share to King Baldwin . 
Einar Skulason also tells of it The Norsemen's king , the skalds relate , Has ta'en the heathen town of Saet The slinging engine with dread noise Gables and roofs with stones destroys . 
The town wall totters too , it falls The Norsemen mount the blackened walls . 
He who stains red the raven's bill Has won , the town lies at his will . 
Thereafter King Sigurd went to his ships and made ready to leave Palestine . 
When King Sigurd sailed into Constantinople , he steered near the land . 
Over all the land there are burghs , castles , country towns , the one upon the other without interval . 
There from the land one could see into the bights of the sails and the sails stood so close beside each other , that they seemed to form one enclosure . 
All the people turned out to see King Sigurd sailing past . 
The emperor had precious cloths spread out from the Gold Tower to Laktjarna , which is the name of the emperor's most splendid hall . 
King Sigurd ordered his men to ride in great state into the city , and not to regard all the new things they might see and this they did . 
King Sigurd and his followers rode with this great splendour into Constantinople , and then came to the magnificent hall , where everything was in the grandest style . 
King Sigurd remained here some time . 
King Sigurd preferred the games , and the messengers said the spectacle would not cost the emperor less than the money offered . 
The Greeks accordingly think that when the king's men win more games at the Padreim than the queen's , the king will gain the victory when he goes into battle . 
, and all kinds of harp playing , singing , and music instruments . 
ENDNOTES Fireworks , or the Greek fire , probably were used . 
SIGURD AND THE EMPEROR OF CONSTANTINOPLE . 
They said the king need not be afraid of wanting firewood , for every day many loads were brought into the town . 
When it was necessary , however , to have firewood , it was found that it was all sold , which they told the king . 
He replied , Go and try if you can get walnuts . 
They will answer as well as wood for fuel . 
They went and got as many as they needed . 
Now came the emperor , and his grandees and court , and sat down to table . 
All was very splendid and King Sigurd received the emperor with great state , and entertained him magnificently . 
Truly , said she , this is a magnificent king , who spares no expense where his honour is concerned . 
She had contrived this to try what they would do when they could get no firewood to dress their feast with . 
KING SIGURD THE CRUSADER'S RETURN HOME . 
King Sigurd soon after prepared for his return home . 
He gave the emperor all his ships and the valuable figureheads which were on the king's ships were set up in Peter's church , where they have since been to be seen . 
The emperor gave the king many horses and guides to conduct him through all his dominions . 
Then King Sigurd left Constantinople but a great many Northmen remained , and went into the emperor's pay . 
Then King Sigurd traveled from Bulgaria , and through Hungary , Pannonia . 
When King Sigurd came to Slesvik in Denmark , Earl Eilif made a sumptuous feast for him and it was then midsummer . 
From thence the king returned to Norway , and was joyfully welcomed on his return to his kingdom . 
It was the common talk among the people , that none had ever made so honourable a journey from Norway as this of King Sigurd . 
He was twenty years of age , and had been three years on these travels . 
His brother Olaf was then twelve years old . 
EYSTEIN'S DOINGS IN THE MEANTIME . 
King Eystein had also effected much in the country that was useful while King Sigurd was on his journey . 
He established a monastery at Nordnes in Bergen , and endowed it with much property . 
He also built Michael's church , which is a very splendid stone temple . 
In the king's house there he also built the Church of the Apostles , and the great hall , which is the most magnificent wooden structure that was ever built in Norway . 
He also built a church at Agdanes with a parapet and a harbour , where formerly there had been a barren spot only . 
In Nidaros he built in the king's street the church of Saint Nikolas , which was particularly ornamented with carved work , and all in wood . 
He also built a church north in Vagar in Halogaland , and endowed it with property and revenues . 
Then he spoke to the Jamtaland people , and told them they had done ill in turning away from the kings of Norway , and withdrawing from them their taxes and allegiance . 
King Eystein thus conquered Jamtaland by his wisdom , and not by hostile inroads , as some of his forefathers had done . 
King Eystein was the handsomest man that could be seen . 
He had blue open eyes his hair yellow and curling his stature not tall , but of the middle size . 
He was wise , intelligent , and acquainted with the laws and history . 
He had much knowledge of mankind , was quick in counsel , prudent in words , and very eloquent and very generous . 
He was very merry , yet modest and was liked and beloved , indeed , by all the people . 
He was married to Ingebjorg , a daughter of Guthorm , son of Thorer of Steig and their daughter was Maria , who afterwards married Gudbrand Skafhogson . 
The man was witty , of great family , and also a poet . 
The king saw that Ivar was out of spirits , and asked him why he was so melancholy . 
Before , when thou wast with us , we had much amusement with thy conversation . 
I know thou art a man of too good an understanding to believe that I would do anything against thee . 
Tell me then what it is . 
He replied , I cannot tell thee what it is . 
Then said the king , I will try to guess what it is . 
The king Would you like to go to other chiefs or to other men ? To this he answered , No. The king It is difficult now to guess . 
Is there any girl here , or in any other country , to whom thy affections are engaged ? He said it was so . 
The king said , Do not be melancholy on that account . 
Ivar replied , My fate is heavier , sire for my own brother has the girl . 
Then said the king , Throw it out of thy mind and I know a counsel against this . 
After Yule I will travel in guest quarters . 
The king Then I will give thee property to manage , and estates for thy amusement . 
He replied , For that I have no desire . 
The king Then I will give thee money , that thou mayest travel in other countries . 
He said he did not wish this . 
Then said the king , It is difficult for me to seek farther , for I have proposed everything that occurs to me . 
There is but one thing else and that is but little compared to what I have offered thee . 
It sometimes happens that sorrow is lightened by being brought out openly and thou shalt never go away without some gift . 
He replied , This I will do , sire , and return thanks for this inquiry . 
King Sigurd was self willed , and severe in his revenge strict in observing the law was generous and withal an able , powerful king . 
His brother Olaf was a tall , thin man handsome in countenance lively , modest , and popular . 
Once King Sigurd fell into low spirits , so that few could get him to converse , and he sat but a short time at the drinking table . 
King Eystein answered them , that it was difficult to speak with the king about this but at last , on the entreaty of many , he promised to do it . 
Once , when they were both together , King Eystein brought the matter before his brother , and asked the cause of his melancholy . 
Tell me , then , brother , thy dream . 
King Sigurd said , I will not tell it , unless thou interpret it as it may turn out and I shall be quick at perceiving if thy interpretation be right or not . 
He went to our brother King Olaf , took him by the hand , and said cheerfully , to him , Come with me , friend . 
On which he appeared to stand up and go into the church . 
Soon after King Olaf the Saint came out of the church , but not so gay and brilliant as before . 
Now he went to thee , brother , and said to thee that thou shouldst go with him on which he led thee with him , and ye went into the church . 
Then I thought , and waited for it , that he would come to me , and meet me but it was not so . 
Then I was seized with great sorrow , and great dread and anxiety fell upon me , so that I was altogether without strength and then I awoke . 
Then said Sigurd , This is well and intelligently interpreted , and it is likely it will be so . 
And now the king began to be cheerful again . 
King Sigurd married Malmfrid , a daughter of King Harald Valdemarson , eastward in Novgorod . 
King Harald Valdemarson's mother was Queen Gyda the Old , a daughter of the Swedish king , Inge Steinkelson . 
Canute's and Ingebjorg's children were , the Danish king , Valdemar , who came to the Danish kingdom after Svein Eirikson and daughters Margaret , Christina , and Catherine . 
Margaret was married to Stig Hvitaled and their daughter was Christina , married to the Swedish king , Karl Sorkvison , and their son was King Sorkver . 
OF THE CASES BEFORE THE THING . 
The king's relative , Sigurd Hranason , came into strife with King Sigurd . 
They spoke so long about this , that King Sigurd conceived a dislike and anger to him , and sent a message to him . 
Sigurd Hranason replies , It is not true that has been told you for I have only taken such portion as I had your permission to take . 
King Sigurd replies , Thou shalt not slip away with this but the matter shall be seriously treated before it comes to an end . 
Soon after , by the advice of his friends , the king laid an action against Sigurd Hranason at the Thing meeting in Bergen , and would have him made an outlaw . 
But for thy distress , and our relationship , I shall bring in a word for thee . 
Besides , he reminded the king of the long friendship with Sigurd Hranason . 
King Sigurd replied , that it was better government to punish such acts . 
Then the kings parted , and each seemed determined to take his own way . 
King Sigurd summoned the parties in the case before the Arnarnes Thing , and intended to pursue it there . 
King Eystein came also to the Thing place and when the case was brought forward for judgment , King Eystein went to the Thing before judgment was given upon Sigurd Hranason . 
And he then explained how the law was , so that every man clearly understood it . 
I will have him condemned to be outlawed in his native place . 
And thus they parted , without anything being concluded in the case . 
Thereafter King Sigurd called together a Gula Thing , went himself there , and summoned to him many high chiefs . 
King Eystein came there also with his suite and many meetings and conferences were held among people of understanding concerning this case , and it was tried and examined before the lagmen . 
Now King Eystein objected that all the parties summoned in any cases tried here belonged to the Thing district but in this case the deed and the parties belonged to Halogaland . 
The Thing accordingly ended in doing nothing , as King Eystein had thus made it incompetent . 
The kings parted in great wrath and King Eystein went north to Throndhjem . 
For this purpose he summoned to him the Halogaland and Naumudal people , and appointed a Thing at Hrafnista . 
At this Thing both the kings spoke , each for his own side . 
The lagmen said that disputes between kings must be judged only at the Eyra Thing in Nidaros . 
King Eystein said , So I thought that it should be there , and the cases must be removed there . 
Then King Sigurd said , The more difficulties and inconvenience thou bringest upon me in this matter , the more I will persevere in it . 
And with that they parted . 
Both kings then went south to Nidaros town , where they summoned a Thing from eight districts . 
King Eystein was in the town with a great many people , but Sigurd was on board his ships . 
, which I do not understand . 
But now there remains , King Eystein , a way of determining the case which I am more used to , and which I shall now apply . 
This was Sigurd Hranason , who begged the king to take what course with regard to him the king himself thought proper . 
In autumn the king gave Sigurd Hranason leave to go north to his farm , gave him an employment , and was always afterward his friend . 
After this day , however , the brothers were never much together , and there was no cordiality or cheerfulness among them . 
ENDNOTES These law quirks show a singularly advanced state of law . 
and deference to the Law Things , amidst such social disorder and misdeeds . 
King Olaf Magnuson fell into a sickness which ended in his death . 
He was buried in Christ church in Nidaros , and many were in great grief at his death . 
namely , five years after King Sigurd returned home , and seven years before . 
King Olaf was seventeen years old when he died , and it happened on the th of December . 
MAGNUS THE BLIND HIS BIRTH . 
King Eystein had been about a year in the east part of the country at that time , and King Sigurd was then in the north . 
King Eystein remained a long time that winter in Sarpsborg . 
Olaf and his children were a long time in winter in Sarpsborg , and Borghild conversed very often with King Eystein so that many reports were spread about their friendship . 
The following summer King Eystein went north , and King Sigurd came eastward , where he remained all winter , and was long in Konungahella , which town he greatly enlarged and improved . 
He built there a great castle of turf and stone , dug a great ditch around it , and built a church and several houses within the castle . 
They had a son , who was called Magnus , and he was sent immediately to Halogaland , to be fostered at Bjarkey by Vidkun Jonson and he was brought up there . 
Magnus grew up to be the handsomest man that could be seen , and was very soon stout and strong . 
COMPARISON BETWEEN THE TWO KINGS . 
The bondes , however , thought it more convenient that both should be entertained together by turns in each house and thus they were both at first in the house of King Eystein . 
But in the evening , when the people began to drink , the ale was not good so that the guests were very quiet and still . 
Sigurd replies , bluntly , Do you talk as much as you please , but give me leave to be silent . 
Eystein says , It is a common custom over the ale table to compare one person with another , and now let us do so . 
I see , says King Eystein , that I must begin this amusement . 
I am moreover more knowing in the law than you , and on every subject my words flow more easily than yours . 
Sigurd It may be that you know more law quirks , for I have had something else to do neither will any deny you a smooth tongue . 
It often happens , too , that I promise whatever is desired of me , that all may be joyful about me . 
It would be an easy matter for me to do as you do , to promise evil to all and I never hear any complain of your not keeping this promise to them . 
Eystein Now you touched the tender spot . 
I would not have brought up this conversation if I had not known what to reply on this point . 
I can truly say that I equipt you from home like a sister , before you went upon this expedition . 
Eystein I have heard that you had several battles abroad , but it was more useful for the country what I was doing in the meantime here at home . 
I built five churches from the foundations , and a harbour out at Agdanes , where it before was impossible to land , and where vessels ply north and south along the coast . 
I set a warping post and iron ring in the sound of Sinholm , and in Bergen I built a royal hall , while you were killing bluemen for the devil in Serkland . 
This , I think , was of but little advantage to our kingdom . 
King Sigurd said On this expedition I went all the way to Jordan and swam across the river . 
Thereupon both were silent , and there was anger on both sides . 
More things passed between the brothers , from which it appeared that each of them would be greater than the other however , peace was preserved between them as long as they lived . 
King Sigurd was at a feast in the Upland , and a bath was made ready for him . 
King Eystein built a large ship at Nidaros , which , in size and shape , was like the Long Serpent which King Olaf Trygvason had built . 
At the stem there was a dragon's head , and at the stern a crooked tail , and both were gilded over . 
The ship was high sided but the fore and aft parts appeared less than they should be . 
He also made in Nidaros many and large dry docks of the best material , and well timbered . 
Six years after King Olaf's death , it happened that King Eystein , at a feast at Hustadir in Stim , was seized with an illness which soon carried him off . 
king of Norway and after his decease his brother , King Sigurd , was the sole king of Norway as long as he lived . 
BAPTIZING THE PEOPLE OF SMALAND . 
King Sigurd promised to undertake this journey , and the kings appointed their meeting at Eyrarsund . 
King Sigurd then summoned all people in Norway to a levy , both of men and ships and when the fleet was assembled he had about ships . 
King Nikolas came very early to the meeting place , and stayed there a long time and the bondes murmured much , and said the Northmen did not intend to come . 
Thereupon the Danish army dispersed , and the king went away with all his fleet . 
This was the summer before the eclipse . 
This was the only levy King Sigurd carried out as long as he was king . 
Then the king said , Who is that fellow I see standing at the church with a skin jacket on ? They answered , that they did not know . 
Then the king said This skin clad man , in sorry plight , Puts all our wisdom here to flight . 
Then the fellow came forward and said I thought that here I might be known , Although my dress is scanty grown . 
'Tis poor , but I must be content Unless , great king , it's thy intent To give me better for I have seen When I and rags had strangers been . 
The king answered , Come to me to morrow when I am at the drink table . 
The night passed away and the morning after the Icelander , who was afterwards called Thorarin Stutfetd , went into the drinking room . 
and speak about that surname in thy song . 
The man who spoke to him was called Arne Fioruskeif . 
The generous king has let me know My stave , to please , must be framed so That my poor verse extol the fame Of one called Hakon Lump by name . 
Then said the king , I never said so , and somebody has been making a mock of thee . 
Hakon himself shall determine what punishment thou shalt have . 
Hakon says , Then we shall be quits , if thou wilt make me another stave about Arne . 
Yet this landlouper we all know , In Africa scarce fed a crow , Of all his arms used in the field , Those in most use were helm and shield . 
Thorarin afterwards went up to the king , and said he had composed a poem which he wished the king to hear . 
The king consented , and the song is known by the name of the Stutfeld poem . 
The king asked Thorarin what he intended to do . 
He replied , it was his intention to go to Rome . 
Then the king gave him much money for his pilgrimage , and told him to visit him on his return , and promised to provide for him . 
ENDNOTES Morstrut is a short , fat , punchy fellow . 
OF SIGURD AND OTTAR BIRTING . 
The king rolled his eyes , and looked at those who were seated on the benches . 
His queen sat by his side . 
Then said King Sigurd , Many are the changes which may take place during a man's lifetime . 
Thereupon he cast the book on the fire which was burning on the hall floor , and gave the queen a blow with his fist between the eyes . 
The queen wept but more at the king's' illness than at the blow , or the affront she had suffered . 
Then a man stood up before the king his name was Ottar Birting and he was one of the torch bearers , although a bonde's son , and was on service that day . 
He was of small stature , but of agreeable appearance lively , bold , and full of fun black haired , and of a dark skin . 
All as one man would have you for king , and have you in the highest regard and honour . 
Then he sat down in silence on his high seat . 
All were silent who were in the hall , for nobody dared to say a word . 
Now the king looked around him , milder than before , and said , It is difficult to know what there is in people . 
I came here like a madman , and would have destroyed my precious property but he turned aside my deed , and was not afraid of death for it . 
So excellent was his speech , that no man here , however great his understanding , could have spoken better . 
Go thou and sit among the lendermen , and be a servant no longer . 
Ottar became one of the most celebrated men in Norway for various good and praiseworthy deeds . 
King Sigurd said , that none of the things he had mentioned was the cause . 
But it is that I think upon the dream I had in the night . 
Sire , replied he , may it prove a lucky dream ! I would gladly hear it . 
Then said the bailiff , It is likely that you an best interpret this dream yourself and I would willingly hear your interpretation of it . 
It so happened once , that King Sigurd sat in a gloomy mood among many worthy men . 
It was Friday evening , and the kitchen master asked what meat should be made ready . 
The king replies , What else but flesh meat ? And so harsh were his words that nobody dared to contradict him , and all were ill at ease . 
Now when people prepared to go to table , dishes of warm flesh meat were carried in but all were silent , and grieved at the king's illness . 
Before the blessing was pronounced over the meat , a man called Aslak Hane spoke . 
He had been a long time with King Sigurd on his journey abroad , and was not a man of any great family and was small of stature , but fiery . 
If a meaner man were to do so , he would merit a heavy punishment . 
This royal hall is not so beset as it should be , when it falls upon me , a mean man , to challenge such an act . 
When the meal time was almost past , the king began to be cheerful , and to drink . 
People advised Aslak to fly , but he said he would not do so . 
It is for him to kill me if he likes . 
The king Thou wouldst like , no doubt , to know what thou art to have for such boldness what thinkest thou it deserves . 
He replies , If it be well rewarded , sire , I shall be glad but should it be otherwise , then it is your concern . 
Then the king said , Smaller is thy reward than thou hast deserved . 
I give thee three farms . 
OF A WOMAN BROUGHT TO THE KING . 
One Yule eve the king sat in the hall , and the tables were laid out , and the king said , Get me flesh meat . 
They answered , Sire , it is not the custom to eat flesh meat on Yule eve . 
The king said , If it be not the custom I will make it the custom . 
They went out , and brought him a dolphin . 
The king stuck his knife into it , but did not eat of it . 
Then the king said , Bring me a girl here into the hall . 
They brought him a woman whose head dress went far down her brows . 
HARALD GILLE COMES TO NORWAY . 
Halkel Huk , a son of Jon Smiorbalte , who was lenderman in More , made a voyage in the West sea , all the way to the South Hebudes . 
A man came to him out of Ireland called Gillikrist , and gave himself out for a son of King Magnus Barefoot . 
His mother came with him , and said his other name was Harald . 
Halkel received the man , brought him to Norway with him , and went immediately to King Sigurd with Harald and his mother . 
When they had told their story to the king , he talked over the matter with his principal men , and bade them give their opinions upon it . 
They were of different opinions , and all left it to the king himself , although there were several who opposed this and the king followed his own counsel . 
Three days after the iron trial the ordeal was taken to proof , and the feet were found unburnt . 
Thereafter King Sigurd acknowledged Harald's relationship but his son Magnus conceived a great hatred of him , and in this many chiefs followed Magnus . 
RACE BETWEEN MAGNUS AND HARALD GILLE . 
The Norse language was difficult for Harald , and he brought out words which many laughed at . 
Harald sat late drinking one evening . 
Magnus , the king's son , heard this , and said , Now he is lying , as he usually does . 
Harald replies , It is true that there are men in Ireland whom no horse in Norway could overtake . 
They exchanged some words about this , and both were drunk . 
The king's son Magnus replies , I will not go to Ireland about it we are wagering here , and not there . 
Harald on this went to bed , and would not speak to him more about it . 
The following morning , when the early mass was over , Magnus rode up the street , and sent a message to Harald to come to him . 
When Harald came he was dressed thus . 
Magnus set up a mark for the race . 
Harald said , Thou hast made the course too long but Magnus made it at once even much longer , and said it was still too short . 
Magnus had his swift runner , the Gautland horse . 
They began the race again , and Harald ran the whole race course before the horse . 
When came to the end Harald asked , Had I hold of the saddle girths now ? Magnus replied , Thou hadst the start at first . 
Then Magnus let his horse breathe a while , and when he was ready he put the spurs to him , and set off in full gallop . 
Harald stood still , and Magnus looked back , and called , Set off now . 
Then they went home to the town . 
In the meantime King Sigurd had been at high mass , and knew nothing of this until after he had dined that day . 
Then he said to Magnus angrily , Thou callest Harald useless but I think thou art a great fool , and knowest nothing of the customs of foreign people . 
Harald Gille was in the forecastle of the king's ship , and Svein Rimhildson , a son of Knut Sveinson of Jadar , had his berth the next before him . 
There was also Sigurd Sigurdson , a gallant lenderman , who himself commanded a ship . 
It was a day of beautiful weather and warm sunshine , and many went out to swim , both from the long ship and the merchant vessel . 
An Iceland man , who was among the swimmers , amused himself by drawing those under water who could not swim so well as himself and at that the spectators laughed . 
Then said Sigurd Sigurdson , Shall we let the king kill this man ? Somebody said , No one has any wish to interfere . 
Sigurd replies , that If Dag Eilifson were here , we should not be without one who dared . 
Then Sigurd sprang overboard , swam to the king , took hold of him , and said , Sire , do not kill the man . 
Everybody sees that you are a much better swimmer . 
The king replies , Let me loose , Sigurd I shall be his death , for he will destroy our people under water . 
Sigurd says , Let us first amuse ourselves and , Icelander , do thou set off to the land , which he did . 
OF HARALD AND SVEIN RIMHILDSON . 
In the evening , when people were going to bed , some of the ship's men were still at their games up in the country . 
Harald was with those who played on the land , and told his footboy to go out to the ship , make his bed , and wait for him there . 
The lad did as he was ordered . 
The king had gone to sleep and as the boy thought Harald late , he laid himself in Harald's berth . 
Svein Rimhildson said , It is a shame for brave men to be brought from their farms at home , and to have here serving boys to sleep beside them . 
The lad said that Harald had ordered him to come there . 
Svein ran to the land after him , and , gathering his friends , took Harald prisoner , and they were about hanging him . 
But while they were busy about this , Sigurd Sigurdson went out to the king's ship and awoke him . 
When the king opened his eyes and recognised Sigurd , he said . 
For this reason thou shalt die , that thou hast intruded into my presence for thou knowest that I forbade thee and with these words the king sprang up . 
Sigurd replied , That is in your power as soon as you please but other business is more urgent . 
Go to the land as quickly as possible to help thy brother for the Rogaland people are going to hang him . 
Then said the king , God give us luck , Sigurd ! Call my trumpeter , and let him call the people all to land , and to meet me . 
The king sprang on the land , and all who knew him followed him to where the gallows was being erected . 
The king instantly took Harald to him and all the people gathered to the king in full armour , as they heard the trumpet . 
Then Sigurd Sigurdson asked if the king wished that he should go forth out of the country . 
That will I not , said the king for I can never be without thee . 
The man had long gone about speechless . 
A few weeks since at Hild was seen , As well as ever he had been , The same poor lad to speech restored By Olaf's power , whom he adored . 
KING OLAF'S MIRACLE WITH A PRISONER . 
The heathens took prisoner a young man of Danish family and carried him to Vindland , where he was in fetters along with other prisoners . 
In the day time he was alone in irons , without a guard but at night a peasant's son was beside him in the chain , that he might not escape from them . 
It is well with the man who does not undergo so much in the world as this man knew he had suffered . 
He saw but one way and that was to get off and escape if he could . 
They got him into their hands and beat him , and did him all kinds of mischief and dragging him home , left barely alive , and showed him no mercy . 
Then he began to think that the misery and pain he had endured before were but shadows to his present sufferings . 
He gladly agreed to this , and made a vow and prepared himself for the situation they mentioned to him . 
Oh , my good lord ! gladly would I raise myself but I lie bound with iron and with chains on my legs , and also the other men who lie here . 
Thereupon the king accosts him with the words , Stand up at once and be not afraid for thou art loose . 
He awoke immediately , and told his comrades what , had appeared to him in his dream . 
They told him to stand up , and try if it was true . 
He stood up , and observed that he was loose . 
Now said his fellow prisoners , this would help him but little , for the door was locked both on the inside and on the outside . 
Make haste , then , and seek the door and if thou are able to slip out , thou art saved . 
He did so , found the door open , slipped out , and away to the forest . 
At last he came on board of a ship , with two other Christian men who had been long afflicted in that country . 
All of them worked zealously in this vessel , and so had a successful flight . 
Then he repaired to the holy man's house , strong and fit to bear arms . 
Then in the night he saw three girls coming to him and handsome and nobly dressed were they . 
Then he awoke full of terror , got up early , and told the house father his dream . 
The good man had nothing so earnest in life as to send him back to the holy place . 
This miracle was first written down by a man who himself saw the man , and the marks of the chains upon his body . 
He ordered accordingly a great feast to be prepared , and intended to hold his wedding with her in Bergen . 
When they came to the king's hall , the bishop sent the king a message that he would like to meet him and asked the king to come out to him . 
He did so , and came out with a drawn sword in his hand . 
He received the bishop kindly and asked him to go in and sit down to table with him . 
The bishop replies , I have other business now . 
who afterwards was bishop , has declared that the sky appeared to him no bigger than a calf's skin , so frightful did the appearance of the king present itself to him . 
There was much noise in the town about this . 
The king got ready for a journey , and took with him corn , malt and honey . 
He went south to Stavanger , and prepared a feast there for his marriage with Cecilia . 
When a bishop who ruled there heard of this he went to the king , and asked if it were true that he intended to marry in the lifetime of the queen . 
The king said it was so . 
The bishop answers , If it be so , sire , you must know how much such a thing is forbidden to inferior persons . 
But you must bestow a great amount of gifts and estates on this foundation , and thereby pay the mulct due to God and to us for such transgression . 
Then said the king , Take what thou wilt of our possessions . 
Thou art far more reasonable than Bishop Magne . 
Then the king went away , as well pleased with this bishop as ill pleased with him who had laid a prohibition on him . 
Thereafter the king married the girl , and loved her tenderly . 
In the castle the king built a cross church of timber , and carefully put together , as far as regards the wood and other materials . 
Here the king deposited the piece of the holy cross , and many other holy relics . 
Three years after the consecration of the cross church , when King Sigurd was stopping at Viken , he fell sick . 
, and was buried in Halvard's church , where he was laid in the stone wall without the choir on the south side . 
His son Magnus was in the town at the time and took possession of the whole of the king's treasury when King Sigurd died . 
Sigurd had been king of Norway twenty seven years , and was forty years of age when he died . 
The time of his reign was good for the country for there was peace , and crops were good . 
SAGA OF MAGNUS THE BLIND AND OF HARALD GILLE . 
PRELIMINARY REMARKS An age of conflict now begins in Norway . 
On his death , in , Sigurd left his son Magnus and his brother Harald . 
They soon divided the government , and then entered upon a five years' conflict , until Magnus , in , with eyes picked out , went into a convent . 
The next year , , a new pretender appeared in the person of Sigurd Slembe , who took King Harald's life in . 
Other literature in regard to this epoch is Fagrskinna and Morkinskinna . 
The corresponding part of Agrip is lost . 
Skalds quoted are Haldor Skvaldre , Einar Skulason , and Ivar Ingemundson . 
MAGNUS AND HARALD PROCLAIMED KINGS . 
Magnus was the handsomest man then in Norway of a passionate temper , and cruel , but distinguished in bodily exercises . 
The favour of the people he owed most to the respect for his father . 
He was a great drinker , greedy of money , hard , and obstinate . 
He willingly listened to good advice , so that he allowed others to consult with him and give counsel . 
With all this he obtained favour and a good repute , and many men attached themselves as much to him as to King Magnus . 
Harald was in Tunsberg when he heard of his brother King Sigurd's death . 
At this Thing , Harald was chosen king of half the country , and it was called a forced oath which had been taken from him to renounce his paternal heritage . 
Then Harald formed a court , and appointed lendermen and very soon he had as many people about him as King Magnus . 
He was notwithstanding the least satisfied with his share . 
Although they were of such different dispositions , they ruled the country for some time in peace . 
King Harald had a son called Sigurd , by Thora , a daughter of Guthorm Grabarde . 
King Harald afterwards married Ingerid , a daughter of Ragnvald , who was a son of the Swedish King Inge Steinkelson . 
Hauga thing means a Thing held at the tumuli or burial mounds . 
OF THE FORCES OF HARALD AND MAGNUS . 
in the town of Nidaros , and invited each other as guests but their people were always ready for a fight . 
King Magnus obtained the consent of many powerful men . 
Wheresoever the two parties went they killed the cattle , or even the people , upon the farms of the adverse party . 
King Magnus had by far the most people , for the main strength of the country lay open to him for collecting men from it . 
King Harald was in Viken on the east side of the fjord , and collected men , while they were doing each other damage in property and life . 
King Harald had with him Kristrod , his brother by his mother's side , and many other lendermen but King Magnus had many more . 
King Harald was with his forces at a place called Fors in Ranrike , and went from thence towards the sea . 
, they had their supper at a place called Fyrileif , while the guard kept a watch on horseback all around the house . 
The watchmen observed King Magnus's army hastening towards the house , and consisting of full men , while King Harald had but . 
Now come the watchmen who had to bring the news to King Harald of what was going on and say that King Magnus's army was now very near the town . 
The king says , What will my relation King Magnus Sigurdson have ? He wants not surely to fight us . 
Thjostolf Alason replies , You must certainly , sire , make preparation for that , both for yourself and your , men . 
King Magnus has been drawing together an army all the summer for the purpose of giving you battle when he meets you . 
Then King Harald stood up , and ordered his men to take their arms . 
We shall fight , if our relative King Magnus wants to fight us . 
Then the war horns sounded , and all Harald's men went out from the house to an enclosed field , and set up their banners . 
King Harald had on two shirts of ring mail , but his brother Kristrod had no armour on and a gallant man he was . 
So says Haldor Skvaldre King Magnus on the battle plain From his long troop line had great gain The plain was drenched with warm blood , Which lay a red and reeking flood . 
King Magnus had the holy cross carried before him in this battle , and the battle was great and severe . 
Many who were near asked the bonde why he had done so foul a deed . 
The bonde replies , He knows the consequences now of slaughtering my cattle in summer , and taking all that was in my house , and forcing me to follow him here . 
I determined to give him some return when the opportunity came . 
After this King Harald's army took to flight , and he fled himself , with all his men . 
Many fell and Ingemar Sveinson of Ask , a great chief and lenderman , got there his death wound , and nearly sixty of King Harald's court men also fell . 
Harald himself fled eastward to Viken to his ships , and went out of the country to King Eirik Eimune in Denmark , and found him in Seeland and sought aid from him . 
and gave him Halland as a fief to rule over , and gave him seven long ships , but without equipment . 
Thereafter King Harald went northwards through Halland , and many Northmen came to meet him . 
After this battle King Magnus subdued the whole country , giving life and safety to all who were wounded , and had them taken care of equally with his own men . 
He then called the whole country his own , and had a choice of the best men who were in the country . 
, and allowed his men to leave him on which the lendermen returned home to their own houses . 
These brotherhoods , by which one man was bound by oath to aid or avenge another , were common in the Middle Ages among all ranks . 
Sworn brothers is still a common expression with us . 
DEATH OF ASBJORN AND OF NEREID . 
King Harald came to Konungahella with the men who had followed him from Denmark . 
The lendermen and town's burgesses collected a force against him , which they drew up in a thick array above the town . 
Then mediators went between them and it came to this , that the bondes dismissed their troops , and submitted to him . 
Thereupon he bestowed fiefs and property on the lendermen , that they might stand by him , and paid the bondes who joined him the lawful mulcts for what they had lost . 
Asbjorn chose to be thrown into the cataract , for he was the elder of the two , and this death appeared the most dreadful and so it was done . 
Halder Skvaldre tells of this Asbjorn , who opposed the king , O'er the wild cataract they fling Nereid , who opposed the king , Must on Hagbard's high tree swing . 
The king given food in many a way To foul mouthed beasts and birds of prey The generous men who dare oppose Are treated as the worst of foes . 
Thereafter King Harald proceeded north to Tunsberg , where he was well received , and a large force gathered to him . 
Then Sigurd Sigurdson said , Here I can give a good advice . 
It appears to me probable that King Harald , by the words and counsel of good men , may accept this offer , and thus there may be a peace established between you . 
Now there is still another counsel , and it is but a poor one but it may turn out useful to us . 
Let them drive together the people , the bad as well as the good and go with the men you can thus assemble against King Harald , and give him battle . 
I would like to hear some other counsel still . 
Sigurd replies , It is difficult for me now to give advice , as you will neither make peace nor give battle . 
Let us go north to Throndhjem , where the main strength of the country is most inclined to our side and on the way let us gather all the men we can . 
It may be that these Elfgrims will be tired of such a long stride after us . 
The king replies , We must not fly from those whom we beat in summer . 
Give some better counsel still . 
Sit here in Bergen until Harald comes with his troops , and then you will either suffer death or disgrace . 
And Sigurd remained no longer at that meeting . 
is called on that account the Crowd winter . 
King Harald came to Bergen on Christmas eve , and landed with his fleet at Floruvagar but would not fight on account of the sacred time . 
But King Magnus prepared for defence in the town . 
He had foot traps made , and thrown into Saint John's field , and did not suspend these works except during the three sacred days of Christmas . 
King Harald made a promise to King Olaf the Saint for victory , that he would build an Olaf's church in the town at his own expense . 
King Magnus drew up his men in the Christ church yard but King Harald laid his vessels first at Nordnes . 
King Magnus fled to his ship but there was no possibility of getting away , for the iron chains outside prevented the passage of vessels . 
He had also but few men with him , and therefore could do nothing . 
Soon after Harald's people came out to the ships , and then King Magnus was made prisoner . 
They , and many others of King Magnus's friends , were taken , and some of them killed on the spot . 
Then he was delivered to the king's slaves , who mutilated him , picked out both his eyes , cut off one foot , and at last castrated him . 
Ivar Assurson was blinded , and Hakon Fauk killed . 
The whole country then was reduced to obedience under King Harald . 
Afterwards it was diligently examined who were King Magnus's best friends , or who knew most of his concealments of treasure or valuables . 
The holy cross King Magnus had kept beside him since the battle of Fyrileif , but would not tell where it was deposited for preservation . 
Bishop Reinald of Stavanger , who was an Englishman , was considered very greedy of money . 
He was a great friend of King Magnus , and it was thought likely that great treasure and valuables had been given into his keeping . 
King Harald would not have this , but laid on the bishop a money fine of fifteen marks of gold , which he should pay to the king . 
The bishop declared he would not thus impoverish his bishop's see , but would rather offer his life . 
On this they hanged the bishop out on the holm , beside the sling machine . 
Bishop Reinald was buried at Nordnes in Michael's church , and this deed was much blamed . 
After this Harald Gille was sole king of Norway as long as he lived . 
Five years after King Sigurd's death remarkable occurrences took place in Konungahella . 
Guthorm , a son of Harald Fletter , and Saemund Husfreyja , were at that time the king's officers there . 
Saemund was married to Ingebjorg , a daughter of the priest Andres Brunson . 
Their sons were Paul Flip and Gunne Fis . 
Saemund's natural son was called Asmund . 
Andres Brunson was a very remarkable man , who carried on divine service in the Cross church . 
His wife was called Solveig . 
Jon Loptson , who was then eleven years old , was in their house to be fostered and educated . 
The priest Lopt Saemundson , Jon's father , was also in the town at that time . 
The priest Andres and Solveig had a daughter by name Helga , who was Einar's wife . 
All who were bitten by them till the blood came turned raging mad and pregnant women were taken in labour prematurely , and became mad . 
From Easter to Ascension day , these portentous circumstances took place almost every night . 
People were dreadfully alarmed at these wonders and many made themselves ready to remove , sold their houses , and went out to the country districts , or to other towns . 
The Catholic priests appear to have had wives at that time in Norway , and celibacy to have been confined to the monks . 
THE RISE OF WAR IN KONUNGAHELLA . 
At that time the priest Lopt went north to Bergen , with all that belonged to him , and arrived safely . 
The merchant vessels were lost on Saint Lawrence eve . 
But the townspeople attended very little to this warning , were indifferent , and forgot more and more the dreadful omens the longer it was since they happened . 
The king's sister's son Dunimiz , and Unibur , a chief who ruled over many people , were with him . 
They made fast their ships at the piles , and landed their horses , and rode over the height of Bratsas , and from thence up around the town . 
Einar , a relation of priest Andres , brought these tidings up to the Castle church for there the whole inhabitants of the town were gathered to hear high mass . 
Many said it must be the Danish king Eirik , and from him they might expect peace . 
The people ran down into the town to their properties , armed themselves , and went down upon the piers , whence they immediately saw there was an enemy and an immense army . 
Nine East country trading vessels belonging to the merchants were afloat in the river at the piers . 
The Vindland people first directed their course toward these and fought with the merchants , who armed themselves , and defended themselves long , well , and manfully . 
When the battle was sharpest the townsmen stood upon the piers , and shot at the heathens . 
Solveig and her daughters , with two other women , went on shore when the Vindlanders took possession of the merchant vessels . 
Now the Vindlanders landed , and mustered their men , and discovered their loss . 
They hastened then with all their army to assault the castle . 
It was a great battle , in which many fell on both sides , but by far the most of the Vindlanders . 
Solveig came up to a large farm called Solbjorg , and brought the news . 
A message war token was there split , and sent out to Skurbagar , where there happened to be a joint ale drinking feast , and many men were assembled . 
Many made an objection , and said they would only be losing their own lives , without being of any assistance to the townspeople . 
Then said Olver , Although all of you should hold back , I will go alone and one or two heathens , at any rate , shall fall before I fall . 
He ran down to the town , and a few men after him to see what he would do , and also whether they could assist him in any way . 
Then he heaved his axe forwards , and struck the next man in the head , and clove him down to the shoulders . 
He then fought with the others , and killed two of them but was much wounded himself . 
The four who remained took to flight , but Olver ran after them . 
Two lendermen , Sigurd Gyrdson , a brother of Philip , and Sigard , came with men to Skurbagar on which Sigurd turned back with men . 
He was but little respected afterwards , and soon died . 
Sigard , on the other hand , proceeded with men towards the town and they gave battle to the heathens , and were all slain . 
While the Vindlanders were storming the castle , their king and his chiefs were out of the battle . 
Then Saemund Husfreyja said to his son Asmund , that they should both shoot together at this bowman . 
But I will shoot at the man who holds the shield before him . 
When the Vindlanders saw it they howled like dogs , or like wolves . 
Then King Rettibur called to them that he would give them safety and life , but they refused terms . 
The heathens again made a hard assault . 
He shot this arrow at the warlock and the shaft hit so well that it did its business , and the man of witchcraft fell dead . 
Then the heathens crowded together as before , howling and whining dreadfully and all gathered about their king , on which the Christians believed that they were holding a council about retreating . 
I see from this that they are in want of weapons and means of defense so we shall make one more hard assault , and try their strength . 
The heathens now made a very hot attack , and rested themselves between whiles , and on both sides they were exhausted . 
During a rest the Vindland king Rettibur again offered terms , and that they should retain the weapons , clothes , and silver they could carry out of the castle . 
They took all the goods that were in the castle went into the Cross church , and plundered it of all its ornaments . 
The priest Andres gave King Rettibur a silver mounted gilt sceptre , and to his sister's son Dunimiz he gave a gold ring . 
They supposed from this that he was a man of great importance in the town , and held him in higher respect than the others . 
These they took , and laid flat down on the steps before the altar . 
Then the heathens went out of the church . 
but the heathens burnt the Castle church , and all the houses that were in the castle . 
As the fire they had set to the church went out twice , they hewed the church down , and then it burnt like other houses . 
The king ordered the interpreter to ask the priest why this happened . 
The king had the priest put into the ship's boat , and the priest Andres carried the holy cross in his grasp . 
They led the boat along past the ship's bow , and then along the side of the next ship , and then shoved it with a boat hook in beside the pier . 
Then Andres went with the cross by night to Solbjorg , in rain and dreadful weather but brought it in good preservation . 
The merchant town of Konungahella has never since risen to the importance it was of before this event . 
King Magnus , after he was deprived of sight , went north to Nidaros , where he went into the cloister on the holm , and assumed the monk's dress . 
The cloister received the farm of Great Hernes in Frosta for his support . 
And again , thus On Hlesey's plain the foe must quail 'Fore him who dyes their shirts of mail . 
His storm stretched banner o'er his head Flies straight , and fills the foe with dread . 
OF KING HARALD GILLE AND BISHOP MAGNUS . 
King Harald Gille was a very generous man . 
It is told that in his time Magnus Einarson came from Iceland to be consecrated a bishop , and the king received him well , and showed him much respect . 
The queen was sitting beside the king . 
Then said the king , Are you ready , bishop , for your voyage ? He replied that he was . 
The king said , You come to us just now at a bad time for the tables are just removed , and there is nothing at hand suitable to present to you . 
What is there to give the bishop ? The treasurer replies , Sire , as far as I know , all articles of any value are given away . 
The king Here is a drinking goblet remaining take this , bishop it is not without value . 
The bishop expressed his thanks for the honour shown him . 
Then said the queen , Farewell , bishop ! and a happy voyage . 
Thereupon this , which was covered with costly cloth , and was a valuable article , was given to the bishop . 
When the bishop was going away the king took the cushion from under himself and gave it him , saying , They have long been together . 
Then said the bishop , I will take another plan . 
From this the generous spirit of King Harald may be seen , as well as from many other things , of which but a few are set down here . 
There was a man , by name Sigurd , who was brought up in Norway , and was called priest Adalbrikt's son . 
Their sons were Sigurd of Austrat and Dag . 
Sigurd of Austrat's sons were Jon of Austrat , Thorstein , and Andres the Deaf . 
Jon was married to Sigrid , a sister of King Inge and of Duke Skule . 
Sigurd showed early traces of a haughty ungovernable spirit , and was therefore called Slembidjakn . 
He was as handsome a man as could be seen , with rather thin but beautiful hair . 
He was a long time on his travels , went to Palestine was at the Jordan river and visited many holy places , as pilgrims usually do . 
When he came back , he applied himself to trading expeditions . 
One winter he was in Orkney with Earl Harald , and was with him when Thorkel Fostre Summarlidason was killed . 
Sigurd was also in Scotland with the Scottish king David , and was held in great esteem by him . 
King Harald Gille's friends , however , said this was only a lie , and deceit of the Danes . 
There were many foreign men there , and Sigurd made the least appearance among them . 
One day Sigurd came into the sitting room , and a Northman who was splendidly clothed was playing chess with one of Thorads house servants . 
The Northman called Sigurd , and asked him his advice how to play but when Sigurd looked at the board , he saw the game was lost . 
The man who was playing against the Northman had a sore foot , so that one toe was bruised , and matter was coming out of it . 
Sigurd , who was sitting on the bench , takes a straw , and draws it along the floor , so that some young kittens ran after it . 
This is given as a proof of Sigurd's cunning . 
The summer after , Sigurd told Thorgils before they parted , that he might with all confidence address his friends to Sigurd Slembidjakn . 
Thorgils asked how nearly he was related to him , on which he replies , I am Sigurd Slembidjakn , a son of King Magnus Barefoot . 
, king of Norway , Sigurd came to the country and went to his brother King Harald , and found him in Bergen . 
He placed himself entirely in the king's hands , disclosed who his father was , and asked him to acknowledge their relationship . 
The king gave him no hasty or distinct reply but laid the matter before his friends in a conference at a specially appointed meeting . 
After this conference it became known that the king laid an accusation against Sigurd , because he had been at the killing of Thorkel Fostre in the West . 
Thorkel had accompanied Harald to Norway when he first came to the country , and had been one of Harald's best friends . 
They then took a boat and rowed away with Sigurd from the town south to Nordnes . 
Sigurd sat on a chest in the stern of the boat , and had his suspicions that foul play was intended . 
He was clothed in blue trousers , and over his shirt he had a hood tied with ribands , which served him for a cloak . 
He sat looking down , and holding his hood strings and sometimes moved them over his head , sometimes let them fall again before him . 
Now when they had passed the ness , they were drunk , and merry , were rowing so eagerly that they were not taking notice of anything . 
As he was afraid that they would catch hold of more of his clothes , he seized them both , and leaped overboard with them . 
Sigurd , who was very swift of foot , hied up to the mountains , and the king's men travelled about the whole night seeking him without finding him . 
He escaped with life this time and the king's men returned , and could not conceal their unsuccessful adventure . 
Sigurd thought now that it would be of no use to seek any help from King Harald again and he kept himself concealed all the autumn and the beginning of the winter . 
He lay hid in Bergen , in the house of a priest . 
King Harald was also in the town , and many great people with him . 
Now Sigurd considered how , with his friends' help , he might take the king by surprise , and make an end of him . 
Many men took part in this design and among them some who were King Harald's court men and chamberlains , but who had formerly been King Magnus's court men . 
They stood in great favour with the king , and some of them sat constantly at the king's table . 
I say that you will sleep this night with your Queen Ingerid and he says that you will sleep with Thora , Guthorm's daughter . 
The king answered laughing , and without suspecting in the least that there lay treachery under the question , that he who had asked had lost his bet . 
They knew thus where he was to be found that night but the main guard was without the house in which most people thought the king would sleep , viz . 
, that which the queen was in . 
Then he said in his sleep , Thou art treating me hardly , Thora . 
She sprang up , saying , They are treating thee hardly who love thee less than I do . 
Harald was deprived of life . 
And if thou are not his brother , thou hast no claim from descent to be king . 
They clashed their weapons together , and adjudged all murderers to be banished and outlawed men . 
Now the king's horn sounded , and all lendermen and courtmen were called together . 
From thence he went to Sogn , and held a Thing there with the bondes and was proclaimed king . 
Then he went north across the fjords , and most people supported his cause . 
So says Ivar Ingemundson On Harald's fall The bondes all , In Hord and Sogn , Took Magnus' son . 
The Things swore too They would be true To this new head In Harald's stead . 
King Harald was buried in the old Christ church . 
SAGA OF SIGURD , INGE , AND EYSTEIN , THE SONS OF HARALD PRELIMINARY REMARKS . 
Sigurd died A. D. , Eystein , and Inge . 
Other literature is Morkinskinna and Fagrskinna . 
Sigurd Slembe is the subject of a drama by Bjornstjerne Bjornson , translated into English by William Morton Payne , and published by Houghton , Mifflin Co . 
Skalds quoted are Kolle , Einar Skulason , and Thorbjorn Skakkaskald . 
HISTORY OF KINGS SIGURD AND INGE . 
He was then in the north , and was fostered by Sadagyrd Bardson . 
Queen Ingerid herself proceeded eastward immediately to Viken . 
Inge was the name of her son by King Harald , and he was then fostered by Amunde Gyrdson , a grandson of Logberse . 
When they came to Viken a Borgar thing was immediately called together , at which Inge , who was in the second year of his age , was chosen king . 
This resolution was supported by Amunde and Thjostolf Alason , together with many other great chiefs . 
They then landed at Monkholm , and took Magnus the Blind out of the cloister against the will of the monks for he had been consecrated a monk . 
It is said by some that Magnus willingly went with them although it was differently reported , in order to make his cause appear better . 
, went forth with his suite , expecting aid from his relations and Magnus's friends , and which they also got . 
With this troop they went south to More , and down to the mouth of Raumsdal fjord . 
Here Sigurd and Magnus divided their forces , and Sigurd went immediately westwards across the sea . 
King Magnus again proceeded to the Uplands , where he expected much help and strength , and which he obtained . 
, and had many people with him but King Inge proceeded against him with all his forces , and they met at a place called Mynne . 
There was a great battle , at which King Magnus had the most people . 
So says Kolle Thy arrow storm on Mynne's banks Fast thinn'd the foemen's strongest ranks Thy good sword hewed the raven's feast On Mynne's banks up in the East . 
Shield clashed on shield , and bucklers broke Under thy battle axe's stroke While thou , uncovered , urged the fray , Thy shield and mail coat thrown away . 
And also this The king to heaven belonging fled , When thou , in war's quick death game bred , Unpanzered , shieldless on the plain His heavy steel clad guards hadst slain . 
The painted shield , and steel plate mail , Before thy fierce attack soon fail , To Magnus who belongs to heaven , Was no such fame in battle given . 
Magnus fled eastward to Gautland , and then to Denmark . 
At that time there was in Gautland an earl , Karl Sonason , who was a great and ambitious man . 
Now Karl , being ambitious of power , listens willingly to such speeches collects men , and rides west to Viken , where many people , out of fear , submit to him . 
When Thjostolf Alason and Amunde heard of this , they went with the men they could get together , and took King Inge with them . 
They met Earl Karl and the Gautland army eastward in Krokaskog , where there was a great battle and a great defeat , King Inge gaining the victory . 
Munan Ogmundson , Earl Karl's mother's brother , fell there . 
Ogmund , the father of Munan , was a son of Earl Orm Eilifson , and Sigrid , a daughter of Earl Fin Arnason . 
Astrid , Ogrnund's daughter , was the mother of Earl Karl . 
Many others of the Gautland people fell at Krokaskog and the earl fled eastward through the forest . 
King Inge pursued them all the way out of the kingdom and this expedition turned out a great disgrace to them . 
So says Kolle I must proclaim how our great lord Coloured deep red his ice cold sword And ravens played with Gautland bones , And wolves heard Gautlanders' last groans . 
Their silly jests were well repaid , In Krokaskog their laugh was laid Thy battle power was then well tried , And they who won may now deride . 
KING EIRIK'S EXPEDITION TO NORWAY . 
Magnus the Blind then went to Denmark to King Eirik Eimune , where he was well received . 
The king allowed himself to be moved by Magnus's persuasions , ordered a levy , and went north to Norway with ships and Magnus and his men were with him on this expedition . 
Their leader was Vatnorm Dagson , a brother of Gregorius . 
The Danes could not land to get water without many of them being killed and therefore they went in through the fjord to Oslo , where Thjostolf Alason opposed them . 
THE TOWN OF OSLO BURNT . 
King Eirik and his army advanced against the town and some of his men hastened after Thjostolf and his troop . 
Halvard , was taken up to Raumarike , where it remained for three months . 
Thjostolf went up to Raumarike , and collected men during the night , with whom he returned towards the town in the morning . 
In the meantime King Eirik set fire to Halvard's church , and to the town , which was entirely burnt . 
King Inge lay with a great number of people into Hornborusund , but when he learned this , he turned about southwards to Denmark again . 
He fell in with some Vindland cutters south of the islands , gave them battle , and gained the victory . 
He cleared eight ships , killing many of the men , and he hanged the others . 
He also had a battle off the Island Mon with the Vindland men , and gained a victory . 
He drove Olaf up the country . 
Thjostolf was at this time in Konungahella , and had collected people to defend the country , and Sigurd steered thither with his fleet . 
They shot at each other , but he could not effect a landing and , on both sides , many were killed and many wounded . 
Ulfhedin Saxolfson , Sigurd's forecastle man , fell there . 
He was an Icelander , from the north quarter . 
Sigurd continued his course northwards to Viken and plundered far and wide around . 
Some of the men came down from the land , but some of the other party laid themselves with their ships right across the harbour outside of them . 
Sigurd ran up into his ship , and rowed out against them . 
The water serpent , people say , From Portyrja slipped away . 
Vatnorm , the name of this man , means the water serpent , and appears to have been a favourite name for war ships also hence the pun in the lines upon Vatnorm . 
Sigurd Slembidjakn sailed from thence to Denmark and at that time a man was lost in his ship , whose name was Kolbein Thorliotson of Batald . 
He was sitting in a boat which was made fast to the vessel , and upset because she was sailing quickly . 
When they came south to Denmark , Sigurd's ship itself was cast away but he got to Alaborg , and was there in winter . 
Magnus and Sigurd sailed together from the south with seven ships , and came unexpectedly in the night to Lister , where they laid their ships on the land . 
Beintein Kolbeinson , a court man of King Inge , and a very brave man , was there . 
The door was somewhat low . 
Sigurd asked which of his lads had most desire to go in against Beintein , which he called brave man's work but none was very hurried to make ready for it . 
While they were discussing this matter Sigurd rushed into the house , past Beintein . 
Beintein struck at him , but missed him . 
Sigurd turned instantly on Beintein and after exchanging blows , Sigurd gave him his death stroke , and came out presently bearing his head in his hands . 
They took all the goods that were in the farm house , carried the booty to their ships , and sailed away . 
King Inge drove Hakon and his followers up the country , and took all their gear . 
Sigurd Stork , a son of Eindride of Gautdal , and his brother , Eirik Hael , and Andres Kelduskit , son of Grim of Vist , all fled away into the fjords . 
north in Bjarkey Isle with Vidkun Jonson . 
Thorleif Skiappa , and Einar , son of Ogmund of Sand , and of Gudrun , daughter of Einar Arason of Reikiaholar , procured food for Sigurd during the winter . 
Sigurd was with the Laplanders while they were making the boats and the Laplanders had good ale , with which they entertained Sigurd . 
Sigurd made these lines on it In the Lapland tent Brave days we spent . 
Under the grey birch tree In bed or on bank We knew no rank , And a merry crew were we . 
Good ale went round As we sat on the ground , Under the grey birch tree And up with the smoke Flew laugh and joke , And a merry crew were we . 
Our ships are built without a nail Few ships like ours can row or sail . 
Thereafter Sigurd came south to Vikar , and seized King Sigurd's lendermen , William Skinnare and Thorald Kept , and killed them both . 
Then Sigurd turned south wards along the coast , and met Styrkar Glaesirofa south of Byrda , as he was coming from the south from the town of Nidaros , and killed him . 
Now when Sigurd came south to Valsnes , he met Svinagrim outside of the ness , and cut off his right hand . 
From thence he went south to More , past the mouth of the Throndhjem fjord , where they took Hedin Hirdmage and Kalf Kringluauge . 
They let Hedin escape , but killed Kalf . 
Bishop Ivar's brother , and besides the priest Jon Smyril . 
Afterwards Sigurd proceeded southwards to Hordaland , and came to Herdla , where Einar , a son of Laxapaul , had a farm and went into Hamar's fjord , to the Gangdaga thing . 
Some wanted to kill the boy , but others took him and carried him with them . 
And on his word they let the boy remain , and went away . 
When Einar came home he gave the labourer money to the value of two ore of gold , and thanked him for his clever invention , and promised him his constant friendship . 
So says Eirik Odson , who first wrote down this relation and he heard himself Einar Paulson telling these circumstances in Bergen . 
Then they sailed south to Denmark . 
OF KING INGE'S LETTER TO KING SIGURD . 
He will be our best friend who does all he can that we may be united , and may take an equal part in all things . 
Live in the peace of God ! . 
Although now some think there is something sharp in King Inge's message to his brother Sigurd , yet he has in many respects sufficient cause for it . 
Peter , a son of Saudaulf , who was afterwards called Peter Byrdarsvein , bore King Sigurd to the Thing . 
Then the king said , Ye must know that , if I am to advise , I will go as soon as possible to my brother King Inge . 
King Sigurd accordingly went with great armament east to Viken , and there he met his brother King Inge . 
FALL OF MAGNUS THE BLIND . 
Sigurd Slembe and Magnus the Blind came from Denmark with thirty ships , manned both with Danes and Northmen . 
It was near to winter . 
When the kings heard of this , they set out with their people eastwards to meet them . 
They met at Hvalar , near Holm the Grey , the day after Martinmas , which was a Sunday . 
King Inge and King Sigurd had twenty ships , which were all large . 
There was a great battle but , after the first assault , the Danes fled home to Denmark with eighteen ships . 
But Hreidar was struck by a spear , which went between his shoulders and people say King Magnus was killed by the same spear . 
Hreidar fell backwards upon the deck , and Magnus upon him and every man spoke of how honourably he had followed his master and rightful sovereign . 
This Ivar had been the first who had gone in , in the night , to King Harald , and had laid hands on him . 
They killed upon a holm more than forty men , among whom were two Icelanders the priest Sigurd Bergthorson , a grandson of Mas the other Clemet , a son of Are Einarson . 
But three Icelanders obtained their lives namely , Ivar Skrauthanke , a son of Kalf Range , and who afterwards was bishop of Throndhjem , and was father of the archbishop Eirik . 
Ivar had always followed King Magnus , and he escaped into his brother Jon Kauda's ship . 
Jon was married to Cecilia , a daughter of Gyrd Bardson , and was then in King Inge's and Sigurd's armament . 
There were three in all who escaped on board of Jon's ship . 
Gudrid Birger's daughter , a sister of Archbishop Jon , told Eirik Odson that she heard Bishop Ivar say this . 
A man called Thrand Gialdkere was the steersman of King Inge's ship . 
Sigurd Slembe threw himself overboard after his ship had lost her crew , stripped off his armour under the water , and then swam with his shield over him . 
They rowed to it immediately , took him , and brought him on board of Thrand's ship . 
Thrand then sent a message to Thjostolf , Ottar , and Amunde . 
Sigurd Slembe had a tinder box on him and the tinder was in a walnut shell , around which there was wax . 
This is related , because it seems an ingenious way of preserving it from ever getting wet . 
When Thrand came to the land with Sigurd , and it was told to the troops that he was taken , the army set up a shout of joy . 
When Sigurd heard it he said , Many a bad man will rejoice over my head this day . 
Then Thjostolf Alason went to where Sigurd was sitting , struck from his head a silk hat with silver fringes , and said . 
In this book is told all concerning Harald Gille and his sons , and Magnus the Blind , and Sigurd Slembidjakn , until their deaths . 
Eirik was a sensible man , who was long in Norway about that time . 
Eirik names , moreover , several men of understanding and veracity , who told him these accounts , and were so near that they saw or heard all that happened . 
Something he wrote from what he himself had heard or seen . 
Peter Byrdarsvein would also avenge his brother Fin . 
But the chiefs and the greater part of the people went away . 
They broke his shin bones and arms with an axe hammer . 
Then they stripped him , and would flay him alive but when they tried to take off the skin , they could not do it for the gush of blood . 
They took leather whips and flogged him so long , that the skin was as much taken off as if he had been flayed . 
Hal says that he spoke little , and answered only a few , and in single words , under his tortures , although they spoke to him . 
Hal says further , that he never moved when they tortured him , more than if they were striking a stock or a stone . 
This Hal alleged as proof that he was a brave hero , who had courage to endure tortures for he still held his tongue , and never moved from the spot . 
He spoke until he gave up the ghost , and sang between whiles parts of the Psalm book , and which Hal considered beyond the powers and strength of ordinary men . 
And the priest who had the church in the neighbourhood let Sigurd's body be transported thither to the church . 
Sigurd's friends afterwards came from Denmark with a ship for his body , carried it to Alaborg , and interred it in Mary church in that town . 
So said Dean Ketil , who officiated as priest at Mary church , to Eirik and that Sigurd was buried there . 
Thjostolf Alason transported Magnus the Blind's body to Oslo , and buried it in Halvard's church , beside King Sigurd his father . 
Lodin Saupprud was transported to Tunsberg but the others of the slain were buried on the spot . 
EYSTEIN HARALDSON COMES TO NORWAY . 
When the kings Sigurd and Inge had ruled over Norway about six years , Eystein , who was a son of Harald Gille , came in spring from Scotland . 
Arne Sturla , Thorleif Brynjolfson , and Kolbein Hruga had sailed westward over the sea after Eystein , accompanied him to Norway , and sailed immediately with him to Throndhjem . 
People believed what he said of his paternal descent , because King Harald himself had testified to it , and he did not resort to the ordeal of iron . 
King Eystein's mother was called Bjadok , and she followed him to Norway . 
Magnus was the name of King Harald Gille's fourth son , who was fostered by Kyrpingaorm . 
He also was chosen king , and got a fourth part of the country but Magnus was deformed in his feet , lived but a short time , and died in his bed . 
Einar Skulason speaks of them The generous Eystein money gave Sigurd in fight was quick and brave Inge loved well the war alarm Magnus to save his land from harm . 
No country boasts a nobler race The battle field , or Thing , to grace . 
Four brothers of such high pretence The sun ne'er shone upon at once . 
King Sigurd was not very friendly to Ottar because , as he thought , Ottar always took King Inge's side . 
, in an assault upon him in the twilight as he was going to the evening song . 
Ottar's relations and other friends accused King Sigurd , who was in the town , of having instigated this deed and the bondes were much enraged against him . 
But the king offered to clear himself by the ordeal of iron , and thereby to establish the truth of his denial and accordingly a peace was made . 
King Sigurd went to the south end of the country , and the ordeal was never afterwards heard of . 
BEGINNING OF ORM THE KING BROTHER . 
Queen Ingerid had a son to Ivar Sneis , and he was called Orm , and got the surname of King brother . 
He was a handsome man in appearance , and became a great chief , as shall be told hereafter . 
JOURNEY OF ERLING SKAKKE AND EARL RAGNVALD . 
Kyrpingaorm and Ragnhild , a daughter of Sveinke Steinarson , had a son called Erling . 
Kyrpingaorm was a son of Svein Sveinson , who was a son of Erling of Gerd . 
Otto's mother was Ragna , a daughter of Earl Orm Eilifson and Sigrid , a daughter of Earl Fin Arnason . 
The mother of Earl Orm was Ragnhild , a daughter of Earl Hakon the Great . 
Erling possessed a farm at Studla in South Hordaland . 
Erling left the country and with him went Eindride Unge and several lendermen , who had chosen men with them . 
They intended to make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem , and went across the West sea to Orkney . 
Soon after they had sailed through the Norvasund , Eindride Unge and his followers , with six ships , separated from them and then each was for himself . 
Earl Ragnvald and Erling Skakke fell in with a large ship of burden at sea called a dromund , and gave battle to it with nine ships . 
At last they laid their cutters close under the dromund but the heathens threw both weapons and stones , and pots full of pitch and boiling oil . 
Erling laid his ship so close under the dromund , that the missiles of the heathens fell without his ship . 
Then Erling and his men cut a hole in the dromund , some working below and some above the water mark and so they boarded the vessel through it . 
Their spears bring down the astonished foe , Who cannot see from whence the blow . 
The eagle's prey , they , man by man , Fall by the Northmen's daring plan . 
Audunraude , Erling's forecastle man , was the first man who got into the dromund . 
Then they carried her , killing an immense number of people making an extraordinarily valuable booty , and gaining a famous victory . 
Earl Ragnvald and Erling Skakke came to Palestine in the course of their expedition , and all the way to the river Jordan . 
From thence they went first to Constantinople , where they left their ships , travelled northwards by land , and arrived in safety in Norway , where their journey was highly praised . 
King Sigurd went to a feast east in Viken along with his court , and rode past a house belonging to a great bonde called Simon . 
The king got off his horse , and went to the girl and courted her . 
When the king went away , the bonde Simon came to know what the object of the king's visit had been . 
The girl was called Thora , and she was Simon the bonde's servant girl . 
, who was called Hakon , and was considered King Sigurd's son . 
Hakon was brought up by Simon Thorbergson and his wife Gunhild . 
Their own sons also , Onund and Andreas , were brought up with Hakon , and were so dear to him that death only could have parted them . 
EYSTEIN AND THE PEASANTS OF HISING ISLE . 
So says Einar Skulason The Viken men Won't strive again , With words or blows , The king to oppose . 
None safety found On Viken's ground , Till all , afraid , Pledge and scat paid . 
And further The king came near He who is dear To all good men Came down the glen , By Leikberg hill . 
They who do ill , The Reine folk , fly Or quarter cry . 
WAR EXPEDITION OF KING HARALDSON . 
Soon after King Eystein began his journey out of the country over sea to the West , and sailed first to Caithness . 
Here he heard that Earl Harald Maddad's son was in Thursa , to which he sailed directly in three small boats . 
The earl had a ship of thirty banks of oars , and nearly eighty men in her . 
The next battle was at Hartlepool in the south , with a party of horsemen . 
The king put them to flight , and seized some ships there . 
So says Einar At Hartlepool , in rank and row , The king's court men attack the foe . 
The king's sharp sword in blood was red , Blood dropped from every Norse spear head . 
Ravens rejoice o'er the warm food Of English slain , each where he stood And in the ships their thirst was quenched The decks were in the foe's blood drenched . 
Then he went southwards to England , and had his third battle at Whitby , and gained the victory , and burnt the town . 
So says Einar The ring of swords , the clash of shields , Were loud in Whitby's peaceful fields For here the king stirred up the strife . 
Man against man , for death or life . 
O'er roof and tower , rose on high The red wrath fire in the sky House after house the red fiend burns By blackened walls the poor man mourns . 
Thereafter he plundered wide around in England , where Stephen was then the king . 
After this King Eystein fought with some cavalry at Skarpasker . 
So says Einar At Skarpasker the English horse Retire before the Norse king's force The arrow shower like snow drift flew , And the shield covered foemen slew . 
He fought next at Pilavik , and gained the victory . 
So says Einar At Pilavik the wild wolf feeds , Well furnished by the king's brave deeds He poured upon the grass green plain A red shower from the Perthmen slain . 
On westwards in the sea he urges , With fire and sword the country purges Langtown he burns the country rang , For sword on shield incessant clang . 
Here they burnt Langatun , a large village and people say that the town has never since risen to its former condition . 
After this King Eystein left England in autumn , and returned to Norway . 
People spoke in various ways about this expedition . 
While Inge and Sigurd were in their childhood , they had a court together but Eystein , who was come to age of discretion , had a court for himself . 
, the two kings , Inge and Sigurd divided their courts . 
King Inge then got great assistance from Gregorius Dagson , a son of Dag Eilifson by Ragnhild a daughter of Skapte Ogmundson . 
Gregorius had much property , and was himself a thriving , sagacious man . 
He presided in the governing the country under King Inge , and the king allowed him to manage his property for him according to his own judgment . 
HABITS AND MANNERS OF HARALD'S SONS . 
When King Sigurd grew up he was a very ungovernable , restless man in every way and so was King Eystein , but Eystein was the more reasonable of the two . 
King Sigurd was a stout and strong man , of a brisk appearance he had light brown hair , an ugly mouth but otherwise a well shaped countenance . 
He was polite in his conversation beyond any man , and was expert in all exercises . 
Einar Skulason speaks of this Sigurd , expert in every way To wield the sword in bloody fray , Showed well that to the bold and brave God always luck and victory gave . 
In speech , as well as bloody deeds , The king all other men exceeds And when he speaks we think that none Has said a word but he alone . 
He was married to Ragna , a daughter of Nicolas Mase . 
King Inge was the handsomest among them in countenance . 
He had yellow but rather thin hair , which was much curled . 
His stature was small and he had difficulty in walking alone , because he had one foot withered , and he had a hump both on his back and his breast . 
He was of cheerful conversation , and friendly towards his friends was generous , and allowed other chiefs to give him counsel in governing the country . 
He was popular , therefore , with the public and all this brought the kingdom and the mass of the people on his side . 
King Harald Gille's daughter Brigida was first married to the Swedish king Inge Halsteinson , and afterwards to Earl Karl Sonason , and then to the Swedish king Magnus . 
She and King Inge Haraldson were cousins by the mother's side . 
At last Brigida married Earl Birger Brose , and they had four sons , namely , Earl Philip , Earl Knut , Folke , and Magnus . 
Their daughters were Ingegerd , who was married to the Swedish king Sorkver , and their son was King Jon a second daughter was called Kristin , and a third Margaret . 
Harald Gille's second daughter was called Maria , who was married to Simon Skalp , a son of Halkel Huk and their son was called Nikolas . 
King Harald Gille's third daughter was called Margaret , who was married to Jon Halkelson , a brother of Simon . 
Now many things occurred between the brothers which occasioned differences and disputes but I will only relate what appears to me to have produced the more important events . 
CARDINAL NIKOLAS COMES TO THE COUNTRY . 
In the days of Harald's sons Cardinal Nikolas came from Rome to Norway , being sent there by the pope . 
Before that time there had only been common bishops in Norway . 
The cardinal introduced also the law , that no man should go unpunished who appeared with arms in the merchant town , excepting the twelve men who were in attendancce on the king . 
He improved many of the customs of the Northmen while he was in the country . 
There never came a foreigner to Norway whom all men respected so highly , or who could govern the people so well as he did . 
After some time he returned to the South with many friendly presents , and declared ever afterwards that he was the greatest friend of the people of Norway . 
He was not long pope , and is now considered a saint . 
He afterwards sought out the holy King Olaf , fixed his mind entirely on the holy man , and weeping besought King Olaf to restore his speech and health . 
Thereupon he immediately recovered his speech by the good king's compassion , went immediately into his service for all his life , and became an excellent trustworthy man . 
This miracle took place a fortnight before the last Olafsmas , upon the day that Cardinal Nikolas set foot on the land of Norway . 
MIRACLES OF KING OLAF ON RICHARD . 
They had a sister who was very handsome , but did not pay sufficient regard to the scandal of evil persons , as it afterwards appeared . 
When this came into the mouth of the public all men threw the blame on the priest . 
Her brothers did the same , and expressed publicly , as soon as they observed it , that they laid the blame most on him . 
They had with them a farm servant who knew their purpose . 
Then they went to a retired place , and commanded their servant man to strike the priest with an axe hammer . 
They then upbraided him but he denied their accusations , and besought God and the holy King Olaf to judge between them . 
Then he set the pin upon the other eye , and said to the servant , Strike now more softly . 
He did so , and the wedge sprang from the eye stone , and tore the eyelid loose . 
Thereafter they opened his mouth , took his tongue and cut it off , and then untied his hands and his head . 
As soon as he came to himself , he thought of laying the eye stones in their place under the eyelids , and pressing then with both hands as much as he could . 
Then they carried him on board , and went to a farm called Saeheimrud , where they landed . 
They sent up to the farm to say that a priest was lying in the boat at the shore . 
While the message was going to the farm , they asked the priest if he could talk and he made a noise and attempted to speak . 
Then said Einar to his brother , If he recover and the stump of his tongue grow , I am afraid he will get his speech again . 
The housewife in the farm was poor but she hastened to the place with her daughter , and they carried the priest home to their farm in their cloaks . 
They then brought a priest , and when he arrived he bound all his wounds and they attended to his comfort as much as they were able . 
As he lay there lame , and deprived of all strength , he wept bitterly , moaned , and prayed with a sore heart that the dear King Olaf would help him . 
He thought he replied to this assentingly . 
Then the man accosted him again , Thou requirest compassion ? The priest replies , I need the compassion of Almighty God and the holy King Olaf . 
He answered , Thou shalt get it . 
Thereupon he pulled the tongue stump so hard that it gave the priest pain then he stroked with his hands his eyes , and legs , and other wounded members . 
Then the priest asked who he was . 
He looked at him , and said , Olaf , come here from Throndhjem and then disappeared . 
KING INGE AND SIGURD HOLD A THING . 
On account of this affair , a conference to settle it was appointed in winter in the Uplands . 
The two sat together in the conference for a long time , and so much was known of their conference that all three brothers were to meet the following summer in Bergen . 
When King Inge and Gregorius heard this report , they came to Bergen with many followers . 
King Sigurd arrived there a little later , and was not nearly so strong in men . 
Sigurd and Inge had then been nineteen years kings of Norway . 
King Eystein came later still from the south than the other two from the north . 
Then King Inge ordered the Thing to be called together on the holm by the sound of trumpet and Sigurd and Inge came to it with a great many people . 
Gregorius had two long ships , and at the least ninety men , whom he kept in provisions . 
He went now to the Thing in a gold mounted helmet , and all his men had helmets on . 
The assembled people made a good return to his speech , and declared they would follow him . 
Gregorius replied , that Sigurd need not long so much for this , as he was ready now , if it must be so . 
A few days after , one of Gregorius's house men was killed out upon the street , and it was Sigurd's house men who killed him . 
Gregorius would then have fallen upon King Sigurd and his people but King Inge , and many others , kept him back . 
But one evening , just as Queen Ingerid , King Inge's mother , was coming from vespers , she came past where Sigurd Skrudhyrna , a courtman of King Inge , lay murdered . 
He was then an old man , and had served many kings . 
King Sigurd's courtmen , Halyard Gunnarson , and Sigurd , a son of Eystein Trafale , had killed him and people suspected it was done by order of King Sigurd . 
But the most dissuaded from this course , thinking that Sigurd would pay the mulct for the slaughter done . 
King Sigurd sat and drank in Sigrid Saeta's house ready for battle , although people thought it would not come to an assault at all . 
Then came King Inge with his men down the road from the smithy shops , against the house . 
King Sigurd and his men made many shots from the holes in the loft , broke down the fireplaces , and threw stones on them . 
They hewed down the houses , and many of King Sigurd's men left him , and surrendered for quarter . 
Then King Sigurd went up into a loft , and desired to be heard . 
As his men had now left him , and the houses were being hewn down , he went out from thence , and with him his court man Thord Husfreyja from Viken . 
King Sigurd was interred in the old Christ church out on the holm . 
King Inge gave Gregorius the ship King Sigurd had owned . 
It was fought on a Friday , and fourteen days before Saint John the Baptist's day . 
Two or three days after King Eystein came from the eastward with thirty ships , and had along with him his brother's son Hakon , a son of King Sigurd . 
Eystein did not come up to the town , but lay in Floruvagar , and good men went between to get a reconciliation made . 
But Gregorius wanted that they should go out against him , thinking there never would be a better opportunity and offered to be himself the leader . 
For thou , king , shalt not go , for we have no want of men . 
But many dissuaded from this course , and it came to nothing . 
King Eystein returned back to Viken , and King Inge to Throndhjem , and they were in a sort reconciled but they did not meet each other . 
He got a long ship there which belonged to Erling , and everything else he required . 
Gregorius thanked her kindly , and allowed that she had behaved nobly , and as might have been expected of her . 
Gregorius then proceeded to Bergen , where he met Erling , who thought also that his wife had done well . 
RECONCILIATION OF EYSTEIN AND INGE . 
Then Gregorius went north to Throndhjem , and came there before Yule . 
This deed was ascribed to King Eystein and Philip Gyrdson , King Sigurd's foster brother , and occasioned much displeasure and hatred . 
The following summer King Inge went south with a very numerous body of men and King Eystein came northwards , gathering men also . 
at the Seleys , near to the Naze but King Inge was by far the strongest in men . 
King Eystein was ill pleased with these terms , and looked upon the treaty as one forced upon him . 
King Eystein , besides , did not pay the money and the one accused the other of not fulfilling what was promised . 
King Inge lay with his ships south at Moster Isle , and King Eystein a little to the north in Graeningasund . 
Aslak and Arne and a few more escaped to the land , went to King Eystein , and told him how King Inge had received them . 
Thereupon King Eystein held a House thing , and told his followers how ill King Inge had treated his men , and desired the troops to follow him . 
I have , said he , so many , and such excellent men , that I have no intention to fly , if ye will follow me . 
But this speech was not received with much favour . 
Halkel Huk was there but both his sons , Simon and Jon , were with King Inge . 
Halkel replied , so loud that many heard him , Let thy chests of gold follow thee , and let them defend thy land . 
King Eystein went on board of the ship of Eindride , a son of Jon Morner , sailed north into Sogn , and then took the land road eastwards to Viken . 
King Inge took the vessels , and sailed with them outside of the isles to Viken . 
Every one fled his own way , so that the king was left with but one man . 
King Inge and his men observed King Eystein's flight , and also that he had but few people with him , and they went immediately to search for him . 
Simon Skalp met the king just as he was coming out of a willow bush . 
God save you , sire , said he . 
The king replied , I do not know if thou are not sire here . 
Simon replied , That is as it may happen . 
The king begged him to conceal him , and said it was proper to do so . 
For there was long friendship between us , although it has now gone differently . 
Simon replied , it could not be . 
Then the king begged that he might hear mass before he died , which accordingly took place . 
Simon told the man who had to put the king to death to do so immediately , for the king had been creeping about upon the grass long enough . 
He was accordingly slain , and he appears to have suffered manfully . 
His body was carried to Fors , and lay all night under the hill at the south side of the church . 
Where he was executed , and his blood ran upon the ground , sprang up a fountain , and another under the hill where his body lay all night . 
From both these waters many think they have received a cure of sickness and pain . 
It is reported by the Viken people that many miracles were wrought at King Eystein's grave , until his enemies poured upon it soup made of boiled dog's flesh . 
This saga describes the feud between Hakon Sigurdson and his uncle Inge . 
The only skald quoted is Einar Skulason . 
ENDNOTES The period is from A. D. to . 
Hakon , King Sigurd's son , was chosen chief of the troop which had followed King Eystein , and his adherents gave him the title of king . 
He was ten years old . 
King Inge took possession of all the estates they had left behind , and declared them banished . 
Thereafter King Inge went to Viken , and was sometimes also in the north of the country . 
Gregorius Dagson was in Konungahella , where the danger was greatest , and had beside him a strong and handsome body of men , with which he defended the country . 
Hakon came with his men , and proceeded to Konungahella with a numerous and handsome troop . 
Gregorius set off with two ships to Viken , and was very much cast down . 
He expected to meet King Inge there , having heard he was coming with a great army to Viken . 
Now when Gregorius had come but a short way north he met Simon Skalp , Haldor Brynjolfson , and Gyrd Amundason , King Inge's foster brothers . 
Gregorius was much delighted at this meeting , and turned back with them , being all in one body , with eleven ships . 
Gregorius landed opposite the town to wait for King Inge , for he was expected , but he did not come . 
Gregorius rowed up the river , and let the ship drive down with the stream against Thorliot . 
They shot at each other a while , until Thorliot and his comrades jumped overboard and some of them were killed , some escaped to the land . 
Then Gregorius rowed to the piers , and let a gangway be cast on shore at the very feet of Hakon's men . 
There the man who carried his banner was slain , just as he was going to step on shore . 
Gregorius ordered Hal , a son of Audun Halson , to take up the banner , which he did , and bore the banner up to the pier . 
Gregorius followed close after him , held his shield over his head , and protected him as well as himself . 
As soon as Gregorius came upon the pier , and Hakon's men knew him , they gave way , and made room for him on every side . 
Afterwards more people landed from the ships , and then Gregorius made a severe assault with his men and Hakon's men first moved back , and then ran up into the town . 
Gregorius pursued them eagerly , drove them twice from the town , and killed many of them . 
By the report of all men , never was there so glorious an affair as this of Gregorius for Hakon had more than men , and Gregorius not full . 
, he proceeded by the upper road to Throndhjem , and came there before Easter . 
The Throndhjem people received him well , for they had always served under that shield . 
It is said that the Throndhjem people took Hakon as king , on the terms that he should have from Inge the third part of Norway as his paternal heritage . 
FALL OF GYRD AND HAVARD . 
King Hakon left Throndhjem in spring with thirty ships nearly and some of his men sailed before the rest with seven ships , and plundered in North and South More . 
No man could remember that there ever before had been plundering between the two towns . 
Jon the son of Halkel Huk collected the bondes in arms , and proceeded against them took Kolbein Ode prisoner , killed every woman's son of them in his ship . 
They sailed the outer course southwards past Bergen , and met three ships of King Inge's fleet , which had been outsailed on the voyage from the east . 
On board of them were Gyrd Amundason , King Inge's foster brother , who was married to Gyrid a sister of Gregorius , and also lagman Gyrd Gunhildson , and Havard Klining . 
King Hakon had Gyrd Amundason and Havard Klining put to death but took lagman Gyrd southwards , and then proceeded east to Viken . 
OF THE CONSULTATIONS OF KING INGE . 
When King Inge heard of this he sailed east after them , and they met east in the Gaut river . 
They had two great East country trading vessels , which they had laid outside of the fleet , and on both these were built high wooded stages . 
The speech was received with much applause , and all declared they were ready to engage in battle against Hakon . 
Then they rowed with all the ships up the river , until they came in sight of each other , and then King Inge turned off from the river current under the island . 
Now the king addressed the lendermen again , and told them to get ready for battle . 
Erling Skakke replied thus to the king's speech It is my duty , sire , not to be silent and I shall give my advice , since it is desired . 
The resolution now adopted is contrary to my judgment for I call it foolhardy to fight under these circumstances , although we have so many and such fine men . 
Give me now some time for consideration , and I promise you that before three days are over I shall fall upon some plan by which we can come into battle with advantage . 
And then , said they , we cannot get hold of him but now they have but few men , and we have their fate in our own hands . 
Gregorius said but little but thought that Erling rather dissuaded from an attack that Gregorius's advice should have no effect , than that he had any better advice to give . 
This counsel was approved by all . 
There was a ness stretched out between their fleet and Hakon's , so that they could not see each other . 
Hakon with his fleet turned northwards a little to the land , where there was a turn in the bight of the river , and where there was no current . 
They made ready for battle , carried land ropes to the shore , turned the stems of their ships outwards , and bound them all together . 
They laid the large East country traders without the other vessels , the one above , the other below , and bound them to the long ships . 
All the smaller ships lay farther off , and they were all nearly loaded with weapons and stones . 
But , nevertheless , it is now necessary to fight manfully , and stand to it with steadiness for the only escape for us is in victory . 
Although we have somewhat fewer men than they , yet luck determines which side shall have the advantage , and God knows that the right is on our side . 
Go forth then in confidence , and be not afraid when the battle begins . 
Let each watch over his own and his comrade's safety , and God protect us all . 
There went a good report abroad of this speech of Sigurd , and all promised fairly , and to do their duty . 
Now must we tell about King Inge and his men . 
Then the chiefs consulted in presence of the army , and told their opinions first , which ships should lie nearest to the enemy and then where each should attack . 
They have not more men than we lendermen can very well engage with . 
All thought well of the advice that the king himself should not take part in the battle . 
Then Erling Skakke said , I agree also to the counsel that you , sire , should not go into the battle . 
It appears to me that their preparations are such , that we require all our precaution not to suffer a great defeat from them and whole limbs are the easiest cured . 
Erling spoke well and long , and many other chiefs also and all to the same purpose all urging to battle . 
In the meantime they waited until all the fleet should be assembled . 
King Inge had the ship Baekisudin and , at the entreaty of his friends , he did not join the battle , but lay still at the island . 
When the army was ready they rowed briskly against the enemy , and both sides raised a war shout . 
Inge's men did not bind their ships together , but let them be loose for they rowed right across the current , by which the large ships were much swayed . 
Erling Skakke laid his ship beside King Hakon's ship , and ran the stem between his and Sigurd's ship , by which the battle began . 
Gregorius , however , was but little wounded , for he had on a plate coat of armour . 
Ivar called out to him , that he had a thick bark . 
Gregorius replied , that if Ivar went on so he would require it all , and not have too much . 
It was very near then that Gregorius and his men had sprung overboard but Aslak Unge threw an anchor into their ship , and dragged them off the ground . 
Ivar was so severely wounded that he could not take part in the fight . 
When his ship was cleared of the men , Gregorius let Ivar be carried to the shore , so that he might escape and from that time they were constant friends . 
When King Inge and his men saw that Gregorius was aground , he encouraged his crew to row to his assistance . 
But now I see that Gregorius , the man to whom I owe the most , is in need of help so we must hasten to the fight where it is sharpest . 
It is also most proper that I should be in the battle for the victory , if we win it , will belong to me . 
Thereupon he ordered his banner to be set up , which was done and they rowed across the river . 
Then the battle raged , and the king could not get room to attack , so close lay the ships before him . 
Now when the king's people saw that he was come they made place for him , and then he laid alongside of Eindride Jonson's ship . 
Now King Hakon's men abandoned the small ships , and went on board the large merchant vessels but some of them sprang on shore . 
Erling Skakke and his men had a severe conflict . 
Many sprang into the water , many fell , but the greater number got to the land . 
So says Einar Skulason Men fall upon the slippery deck Men roll off from the blood drenched wreck Dead bodies float down with the stream , And from the shores witch ravens scream . 
The cold blue river now runs red With the warm blood of warriors dead , And stains the waves in Karmt Sound With the last drops of the death wound . 
All down the stream , with unmann'd prow , Floats many an empty long ship now , Ship after ship , shout after shout , Tell that Kign Hakon can't hold out . 
The bowmen ply their bows of elm , The red swords flash o'er broken helm King Hakon's men rush to the strand , Out of their ships , up through the land . 
Einar composed a song about Gregorius Dagson , which is called the River song . 
Eindride Jonson leaped on board of King Inge's ship when his own was cleared of men , and begged for his life . 
There was much lamentation at Eindride's death , but principally in the Throndhjem district . 
Many of Hakon's people fell here , but not many chiefs . 
Few of King Inge's people fell , but many were wounded . 
King Hakon fled up the country , and King Inge went north to Viken with his troops and he , as well as Gregorius , remained in Viken all winter . 
There fell Bergliot , Ivar's son , and Ogmund , his brother , and many more . 
They had been nearly thirty altogether in number . 
In winter died , north in the merchant town , Andres Simonson , King Hakon's foster brother and his death was much deplored . 
Erling Skakke and Inge's men , who were in Bergen , threatened that in winter they would proceed against Hakon and his men but it came to nothing . 
THE CONFLICT UPON THE PIERS . 
King Inge and Gregorius left the east in spring , and came to Bergen but as soon as Hakon and Sigurd heard that Inge had left Viken , they went there by land . 
When King Inge and his people came to Bergen , a quarrel arose between Haldor Brynjolfson and Bjorn Nikolason . 
Bjorn's house man asked Haldor's when they met at the pier , why he looked so pale . 
He replied , because he had been bled . 
I could not look so pale if I tried , at merely being bled . 
I again think , retorted the other , that thou wouldst have borne it worse , and less manfully . 
And no other beginning was there for their quarrel than this . 
Afterwards one word followed another , till from brawling they came to fighting . 
It was told to Haldor Brynjolfson , who was in the house drinking , that his house man was wounded down on the pier and he went there immediately . 
Then Bjorn and his house men took their weapons , hurried down to the pier , and would avenge their men and a bloody strife began . 
Now it was told Erling Skakke that his sister's son Bjorn was fighting with Gregorius and Haldor down on the piers , and that he needed help . 
There fell thirteen men , of whom nine were killed on the spot , and four died of their wounds , and many were wounded . 
Then Gregorius called to Inge , and told him to go away for it was in vain to attempt coming between them , as matters now stood . 
Then King Inge retired and when the greatest tumult was over , Gregorius and his men went to Nikolas church , and Erling behind them , calling to each other . 
Then King Inge came a second time , and pacified them and both agreed that he should mediate between them . 
Then King Inge went to Oslo , and Gregorius was in Konungahella . 
Soon after Gregorius heard that Hakon and his men were at a farm called Saurby , which lies up beside the forest . 
Gregorius hastened there came in the night and supposing that King Hakon and Sigurd would be in the largest of the houses , set fire to the buildings there . 
But Hakon and his men were in the smaller house , and came forth , seeing the fire , to help their people . 
There Munan fell , a son of Ale Uskeynd , a brother of King Sigurd Hakon's father . 
Gregorius and his men killed him , because he was helping those whom they were burning within the house . 
Some escaped , but many were killed . 
Asbjorn Jalda , who had been a very great viking , escaped from the house , but was grievously wounded . 
King Hakon and Sigurd escaped , but many of their people were killed . 
Thereafter Gregorius returned home to Konungahella . 
Soon after King Hakon and Sigurd went to Haldor Brynjolfson's farm of Vettaland , set fire to the house , and burnt it . 
Haldor went out , and was cut down instantly with his house men and in all there were about twenty men killed . 
OF THE FALL OF GREGORIUS DAGSON . 
When Gregorius heard the news he took it much to heart , and inquired carefully where they were . 
When Gregorius and his followers saw the men of King Hakon and Sigurd , the king's force appeared to them smaller than their own . 
There was a river called Befia between them , where they met and there was unsound ice on the river , for there went a stream under the ice from it . 
King Hakon and his men had cut a rent in the ice , and laid snow over it , so that nobody could see it . 
Gregorius said it was seldom necessary to encourage him to show bravery , and it should not be so now . 
Then he ordered the banner to be advanced , and immediately went out on the ice with the men . 
As soon as the bondes found that the ice was unsound they turned back . 
Gregorius fell through the ice , but not very deep , and he told his men to take care . 
There were not more than twenty men with him , the others having turned back . 
A man of King Hakon's troop shot an arrow at Gregorius , which hit him under the throat , and thus ended his life . 
Gregorius fell , and ten men with him . 
Gregorius's body was carried to Hofund , and interred at Gimsey Isle , in a nunnery which is there , of which Gregorius's sister , Baugeid , was then the abbess . 
KING INGE HEARS OF GREGORIUS'S FALL . 
Two bailiffs went to Oslo to bring the tidings to King Inge . 
When they arrived they desired to speak to the king and he asked , what news they brought . 
Gregorius Dagson's death , said they . 
How came that misfortune ? asked the king . 
When they had told him how it happened , he said , They gave advice who understood the least . 
It is said he took it so much to heart that he cried like a child . 
When he recovered himself he said , I wanted to go to Gregorius as soon as I heard of Haldor's murder for I thought that Gregorius would not sit long before thinking . 
There was a man present who replied , Ye need not seek after them , for they intend to seek you . 
Kristin , King Sigurd's daughter and King Inge's cousin , was then in Oslo . 
The king heard that she intended going away . 
He sent a message to her to inquire why she wished to leave the town . 
She thought it was dangerous and unsafe for a female to be there . 
The king would not let her go . 
, in the evening , King Inge's spies brought him the news that King Hakon was coming towards the town . 
Then King Inge ordered the war horns to call together all the troops up from the town and when he drew them up he could reckon them to be nearly men . 
The king let the array be long , but not more than five men deep . 
Then some said that the king should not be himself in the battle , as they thought the risk too great but that his brother Orm should be the leader of the army . 
The witch who , as people say , sat out was called Thordis Skeggia but what truth there may be in the report I know not . 
Simon Skalp had gone to the town , and was gone to sleep , when the war shouts awoke him . 
Thereupon King Inge went with his army out on the ice , and he drew it up in order of battle in front of the town . 
When King Hakon and his army came near to King Inge's array , both sides raised a war shout . 
When this news was told to King Inge , he said , Such is the difference between my friends . 
The king replied , he had no inclination to do so . 
I have had many battles , sometimes with more , sometimes with fewer people and it is my greatest luck that I have never fled . 
God will dispose of my life , and of how long it shall be but I shall never betake myself to flight . 
But Hakon and his men went briskly forwards and now it was near daybreak . 
Twice Orm went to the town after the king's fall to encourage the people , and both times returned , and went out again upon the ice to continue the battle . 
Hakon's men attacked the wing of the array which Simon Skalp led and in that assault fell of King Inge's men his brother in law , Gudbrand Skafhogson . 
Simon Skalp and Halvard Hikre went against each other with their troops , and fought while they drew aside past Thraelaberg and in this conflict both Simon and Halvard fell . 
Orm , the king's brother , gained great reputation in this battle but he at last fled . 
Orm fled east to Svithjod , where his brother Magnus was then king and their brother Ragnvald was an earl there at that time . 
They were the sons of Queen Ingerid and Henrik Halte , who was a son of the Danish king Svein Sveinson . 
The princess Kristin took care of King Inge's body , which was laid on the stone wall of Halvard's church , on the south side without the choir . 
He had then been king for twenty three years . 
In this battle many fell on both sides , but principally of King Inge's men . 
Of King Hakon's people fell Arne Frirekson . 
Hakon's men took all the feast and victuals prepared for the wedding , and a great booty besides . 
OF KING HAKON AND QUEEN KRISTIN . 
Then King Hakon took possession of the whole country , and distributed all the offices among his own friends , both in the towns and in the country . 
King Hakon and his men had a meeting in Halvard's church , where they had a private conference concerning the management of the country . 
When she learnt what they had said , she sent a man to Bergen to her husband Erling Skakke , with the message that he should never trust Hakon or his men . 
It happened at the battle of Stiklestad , as before related , that King Olaf threw from him the sword called Hneiter when he received his wound . 
A Swedish man , who had broken his own sword , took it up , and fought with it . 
When this man escaped with the other fugitives he came to Svithjod , and went home to his house . 
The Varings who had the guard , and watched over the emperor , lay on the open plain without the camp . 
They changed the watch with each other in the night , and those who had been before on watch lay down and slept but all completely armed . 
One of these comrades , whose lot it was to watch the latter part of the night , found , on awakening towards morning , that his sword was gone . 
He looked after it , and saw it lying on the flat plain at a distance from him . 
He got up and took the sword , thinking that his comrades who had been on watch had taken the sword from him in a joke but they all denied it . 
The same thing happened three nights . 
Then he wondered at it , as well as they who saw or heard of it and people began to ask him how it could have happened . 
He told these circumstances in Norway , according to what Einar Skulason says in his song about King Olaf the Saint , in which these events are sung . 
OLAF'S MIRACLE IN FAVOUR OF THE VARINGS . 
It happened once in the Greek country , when Kirjalax was emperor there , that he made an expedition against Blokumannaland . 
When he came to the Pezina plains , a heathen king came against him with an innumerable host . 
He brought with him many horsemen , and many large waggons , in which were large loop holes for shooting through . 
The heathen king was blind . 
Now when the Greek king came , the heathens drew up their array on the plains before their waggon fortification . 
Then the Greek king was greatly incensed at his men at arms and they replied , that he should now take his wine bags , the Varings . 
The king says that he would not throw away his jewels , and allow so few men , however bold they might be , to attack so vast an army . 
Then the king replied , Call upon your holy King Olaf for help and strength . 
When the heathens saw them , they told their king that there was another troop of the Greek king's army come out upon the plain but they were only a handful of people . 
The king says , Who is that venerable man riding on a white horse at the head of the troop ? They replied , We do not see him . 
There was so great a difference of numbers , that there were sixty heathens for every Christian man but notwithstanding the Varings went boldly to the attack . 
When the Greeks and Franks who before had fled from the heathens saw this , they hastened to take part , and pursue the enemy with the others . 
Then the Varings had reached the waggon fortification , where the greatest defeat was given to the enemy . 
With this saga , which describes a series of conflicts , Snorre's Heimskringla ends . 
King Eystein died in , but Magnus Erlingson continued to reign until his death in . 
The conflicts continued until the opposition party was led to victory by King Sverre . 
The only skald quoted is Thorbjorn Skakkaskald . 
When they met , and conversed with each other , they resolved to keep their men together and which resolution they confirmed by oath and hand shake to each other . 
Then they considered whom they should take to be king . 
It was now tried whether Arne would let any of his sons , King Inge's brothers , be proclaimed king . 
Arne replies , that Kristin's son , she was the daughter of King Sigurd the Crusader , was nearest by propinquity of descent to the crown of Norway . 
Many thought well of this advice . 
Erling replied to it , As far as I can see or hear in this meeting , the most will rather be excused from taking upon themselves such a difficult business . 
All gave assurance that they would enter into this confederacy with perfect fidelity . 
To this they all agreed and in this meeting it was determined to take Erling's son Magnus to be king . 
They afterwards held a Thing in the town and at this Thing Magnus Erlingson , then five years old , was elected king of the whole country . 
All who had been servants of King Inge went into his service , and each of them retained the office and dignity he had held under King Inge . 
KING MAGNUS GOES TO DENMARK . 
Erling Skakke made himself ready to travel , fitted out ships , and had with him King Magnus , together with the household men who were on the spot . 
They went south to Denmark to King Valdemar and Buriz Heinrekson , King Inge's brother . 
King Valdemar was King Magnus's blood relation for Ingebjorg , mother of King Valdemar , and Malmfrid , mother of Kristin , King Magnus's mother , were cousins . 
This agreement was confirmed by oath and a fixed treaty . 
Then Erling and King Magnus made themselves ready to leave Denmark , and they sailed out of Vendilskage . 
King Hakon went in spring , after the Easter week , north to Throndhjem , and had with him the whole fleet that had belonged to King Inge . 
He held a Thing there in the merchant town , and was chosen king of the whole country . 
Then he made Sigurd of Reyr an earl , and gave him an earldom , and afterwards proceeded southwards with his followers all the way to Viken . 
The king went to Tunsberg but sent Earl Sigurd east to Konungahella , to defend the country with a part of the forces in case Erling should come from the south . 
Erling and his fleet came to Agder , and went straight north to Bergen , where they killed Arne Brigdarskalle , King Hakon's officer , and came back immediately against King Hakon . 
Erling brought up at Hrossanes , and lay there some nights . 
In the meantime King Hakon made preparations in the town . 
Erling had two cables brought on board the vessel , and made fast to two boats , and made them row along as the vessel drove . 
Then Erling drew the whole fleet in where the wind carried the fire , and shot at the enemy . 
Then Onund fled , and was followed by all the people , and by the king himself and they hastened up the country . 
King Magnus' men rush up the street , Eager with Hakon's troop to meet But Hakon's war hawks , somewhat shy , Turn quick about , and off they fly . 
But the town champion rather fears The sharp bright glance of levelled spears Their steel clad warrior loves no fight Where bowstring twangs , or fire flies bright . 
King Hakon then took the land road northwards to Throndhjem . 
When Earl Sigurd heard of this , he proceeded with all the ships he could get the seaway north wards , to meet King Hakon there . 
Erling Skakke took all the ships in Tunsberg belonging to King Hakon , and there he also took the Baekisudin which had belonged to King Inge . 
There Erling killed Ingebjorn Sipil , King Hakon's lenderman of the north part of the Fjord district . 
King Hakon was in Throndhjem but in the following spring he ordered a levy , and prepared to go against Erling . 
And now a great many vessels were assembled at Bergen , for many arrived every day , and none were allowed to go away . 
He then one day called a meeting of the ship masters , and gave them and all the merchant ships and their steersmen leave to go where they pleased . 
King Hakon sailed from thence to Veey , and sent away Earl Sigurd and Onund Simonson to gather people , and sent men also to both the More districts . 
Orm , the king's brother , laid his ships out in the harbour immediately that evening , and many others , and the greater number were afloat before . 
Erling had his son King Magnus with him , and there were many lendermen accompanied by the finest men . 
On Friday , immediately after matins , they sailed to Steinavag , and King Hakon , with thirteen ships , was lying in the harbour in the neighbourhood . 
When they came to the shore they did not belay the boat , but both ran from it . 
The great men seeing this , said to each other , These men must have some news to tell and got up to meet them . 
Then said Eindride Unge , Too near to the nose , said the peasant , when his eye was knocked out . 
It was just the time of day when their meat was nearly cooked . 
All the men rushed to the ships , and each ran on board the vessel that was nearest to him , so that the ships were unequally manned . 
Some took to the oars some raised the masts , turned the heads of the vessels to the north , and steered for Veey , where they expected much assistance from the towns . 
Soon after they saw the sails of Erling's fleet , and both fleets came in sight of each other . 
When Eindride came abreast of the island Sek , the Baekisudin , which Erling Skakke himself commanded , came up with her and these two ships were bound fast together . 
King Hakon and his followers had arrived close to Veey but when they heard the war horn they turned again to assist Eindride . 
Now they began the battle on both sides , as the vessels came up . 
Many of the sails lay midships across the vessels and the ships were not made fast to each other , but they lay side by side . 
The conflict was not long before there came disorder in Hakon's ship and some fell , and others sprang overboard . 
Then he went into the Baekisudin to the forecastle men , and begged his life . 
They took him in their keeping , and gave him quarter . 
In this conflict there was a great loss of people , but principally of Hakon's men . 
In the Baekisudin fell Nikolas , Simon Skalp's son and Erling's men are accused of having killed him themselves . 
Then there was a pause in the battle , and the vessels separated . 
It was now told to Erling that Hakon was on board of his ship that the forecastle men had taken him , and threatened that they would defend him with arms . 
Erling sent men forwards in the ship to bring the forecastle men his orders to guard Hakon well , so that he should not get away . 
All the forecastle men gave their chief great credit and honour for these words . 
Thereupon they all raised a war shout , encouraged each other , and rushed to the assault . 
In this tumult King Hakon received his death wound . 
When his men knew he had fallen they rowed with all their might against the enemy , threw away their shields , slashed with both hands , and cared not for life . 
This heat and recklessness , however , proved soon a great loss to them for Erling's men saw the unprotected parts of their bodies , and where their blows would have effect . 
The greater part of Hakon's men who remained fell here and it was principally owing to the want of numbers , as they were not enough to defend themselves . 
They could not get quarter , also excepting those whom the chiefs took under their protection and bound themselves to pay ransom for . 
The following of Hakon's people fell Sigurd Kapa , Sigurd Hiupa , and Ragnvald Kunta but some ships crews got away , rowed into the fjords , and thus saved their lives . 
FLIGHT OF THE CHIEFS OF HAKON'S MEN . 
Earl Sigurd , Eindride Unge , Onund Simonson , Frirek Keina , and other chiefs kept the troop together , left the ships in Raumsdal , and went up to the Uplands . 
King Magnus and his father Erling sailed with their troops north to Nidaros in Throndhjem , and subdued the country as they went along . 
Erling called together an Eyra thing , at which King Magnus was proclaimed king of all Norway . 
Erling , however , remained there but a short time for he thought the Throndhjem people were not well affected towards him and his son . 
King Magnus was then called king of the whole country . 
King Hakon had been a handsome man in appearance , well grown , tall and thin but rather broad shouldered , on which account his men called him Herdebreid . 
As he was young in years , his lendermen ruled for him . 
He was cheerful and friendly in conversation , playful and youthful in his ways , and was much liked by the people . 
There was an Upland man called Markus of Skog , who was a relation of Earl Sigurd . 
Markus brought up a son of King Sigurd Mun , who was also called Sigurd . 
by the Upland people , by the advice of Earl Sigurd and the other chiefs who had followed King Hakon . 
They went with their troops mostly through the Uplands , and sometimes eastwards to Viken . 
Erling Skakke had his son King Magnus always with him , and he had also the whole fleet and the land defence under him . 
, and collected in Viken all the taxes and revenues that belonged to Magnus as king and he had many and very fine troops . 
At that time the realm of Norway was in great prosperity . 
The people of Viken were very friendly to Erling and King Magnus , principally from the popularity of the late King Inge Haraldson for the Viken people had always served under his banner . 
Erling kept a guard in the town , and twelve men were on watch every night . 
Erling gave a feast at Yule in Tunsberg , and paid the wages of the men at arms at Candlemas . 
Earl Sigurd went with his best troops down to Viken , where many people were obliged to submit to his superior force , and many had to pay money . 
He drove about thus widely higher up the country , penetrating into different districts . 
Philip Gyrdson made terms with Erling , got his property back , and went home to his farm but soon after Sigurd's men came there , and killed him . 
They committed many crimes against each other , and many men were slain in their mutual persecution but here what was committed by the chiefs only is written down . 
ERLING GETS NEWS OF EARL SIGURD . 
Erling sent out spies in all quarters around to discover where they were . 
At last Erling got intelligence that Sigurd and his followers were not far distant , up at the farm Re . 
and every man had two days' provisions with him . 
They marched by night , and it was late before they got out of the town with the men . 
Two men were with each shield and each horse and the people , when mustered , were about men . 
When they met their spies , they were informed that Sigurd was at Re , in a house called Rafnnes , and had men . 
Erling replied to them thus It is probable that we and Earl Sigurd shall soon meet . 
We have people enough against them , so few as they are . 
Let us , therefore , wait for day and daylight , and keep together in our array in case they attack us . 
Thereafter the whole army sat down . 
Some opened up bundles of hay , and made a bed of it for themselves some sat upon their shields , and thus waited the daydawn . 
The weather was raw , and there was a wet snowdrift . 
OF EARL SIGURD'S BATTLE ARRAY . 
Earl Sigurd got the first intelligence of Erling's army , when it was already near to the house . 
His men got up , and armed themselves but not knowing how many men Erling had with him , some were inclined to fly , but the most determined to stand . 
As day dawned , they began on both sides to draw up their battle array . 
Earl Sigurd placed his men on the edge of a ridge between the river and the house , at a place at which a little stream runs into the river . 
When Earl Sigurd's men saw that there was so great a want of men on their side , they held a council , and were for taking to the forest . 
We have a good battle field . 
Let them cross the bridge but as soon as the banner comes over it let us then rush down the hill upon them , and none desert his neighbour . 
The earl said , God knows that I would rather get at Erling Skakke with a stroke of Bastard , than receive much gold . 
Then they all sang aloud Kyrie Eleison , and struck with their weapons on their shields . 
But with this singing men of Erling's people slipped away and fled . 
They first used spears then edge weapons and the earl's banner soon retired so far back , that Erling and his men scaled the ridge . 
The battle lasted but a short time before the earl's men fled to the forest , which they had close behind them . 
This was told Earl Sigurd , and his men bade him fly but he replied , Let us on while we can . 
And his men went bravely on , and cut down on all sides . 
In this tumult fell Earl Sigurd and Jon Sveinson , and nearly sixty men . 
Erling lost few men , and pursued the fugitives to the forest . 
There Erling halted his troops , and turned back . 
He came just as the king's slaves were about stripping the clothes off Earl Sigurd , who was not quite lifeless . 
He had put his sword in the sheath , and it lay by his side . 
Erling took it , struck the slaves with it , and drove them away . 
Then Erling , with his troops , returned , and sat down in Tunsberg . 
Seven days after Earl Sigurd's fall Erling's men took Eindride Unge prisoner , and killed him , with all his ship's crew . 
MARKUS OF SKOG , AND SIGURD SIGURDSON . 
Markus fled with his followers to the island Hising and there the country people of Hising came down in swarms , and placed themselves in Markus's and Sigurd's array . 
Erling and his men rowed to the shore but Markus's men shot at them . 
Then Erling said to his people , Let us take their ships , but not go up to fight with a land force . 
The Hisingers are a bad set to quarrel with , hard , and without understanding . 
They will keep this troop but a little while among them , for Hising is but a small spot . 
This was done they took the ships , and brought them over to Konungahella . 
Markus and his men went up to the forest district , from which they intended to make assaults , and they had spies out on both sides . 
Erling had many men at arms with him , whom he brought from other districts , and they made attacks on each other in turn . 
Eystein , a son of Erlend Himaide , was selected to be archbishop , after Archbishop Jon's death and he was consecrated the same year King Inge was killed . 
Now when Archbishop Eystein came to his see , he made himself beloved by all the country , as an excellent active man of high birth . 
OF MARKUS AND KING SIGURD . 
Sigurd was received there joyfully , and chosen king at an Eyra thing and many gallant men , with their sons , attached themselves to his party . 
They fitted out ships , rigged them for a voyage , and proceeded when summer came southwards to More , and took up all the royal revenues wheresoever they came . 
As Markus and Sigurd sailed south , they heard that Erling's men were numerous in Bergen and therefore they sailed outside the coast rocks , and southwards past Bergen . 
It was generally remarked , that Markus's men always got a fair wind , wherever they wished to sail to . 
MARKUS AND KING SIGURD KILLED . 
But when he came farther in Viken , he met with a strong contrary wind , which kept him there in port the whole summer . 
Now when Sigurd and Markus came east to Lister , they heard that Erling had a great force in Viken so they turned to the north again . 
Sigurd and Markus saw no other way of escaping but to row away southwards . 
Some of them went out to sea , others got south to the sound , and some got into the Fjords . 
Markus , and some people with him , sprang upon an isle called Skarpa . 
Nikolas and his men took their ships , gave Jon Halkelson and a few others quarter , but killed the most of them they could get hold of . 
Some days after Eindride Heidafylja found Sigurd and Markus , and they were brought to Bergen . 
Sigurd was beheaded outside of Grafdal , and Markus and another man were hanged at Hvarfsnes . 
, and the band which had followed them was dispersed . 
ERLING AND THE PEOPLE OF HISING ISLE . 
Frirek Keina and Bjarne the Bad , Onund Simonson and Ornolf Skorpa had rowed out to sea with some ships , and sailed outside along the land to the east . 
Wheresoever they came to the land they plundered , and killed Erling's friends . 
When the Hising people came to the Thing , Erling laid his law suit against them for having joined the bands of Sigurd and Markus , and having raised men against him . 
Assur was the name of one of the greatest of the bondes on the island , and he answered Erling on account of the others . 
When they came , he condemned them to pay a penalty of head of cattle and the bondes returned home ill pleased at this sentence . 
Soon after the Gaut river was frozen , and Erling's ships were fast in the ice and the bondes kept back the mulct , and lay assembled for some time . 
Erling made a Yule feast in the town but the Hising people had joint feasts with each other , and kept under arms during Yule . 
The night after the fifth day of Yule Erling went up to Hising , surrounded Assur's house , and burnt him in it . 
He killed one hundred men in all , burnt three houses , and then returned to Konungahella . 
The bondes came then , according to agreement , to pay the mulct . 
DEATH OF FRIREK KEINA AND BJARNE . 
Erling sent out spies to learn their doings , searched for them , and found them lying in a harbour . 
Onund Simonson and Ornolf Skorpa escaped , but Frirek Keina and Bjarne the Bad were taken , and many of their followers were killed . 
Erling had Frirek bound to an anchor and thrown overboard and for that deed Erling was much detested in the Throndhjem country , for the most powerful men there were relatives of Frirek . 
Erling ordered Bjarne the Bad to be hanged and he uttered , according to his custom , many dreadful imprecations during his execution . 
Keina , fast to an anchor bound , Was thrown into the deep blue Sound And Bjarne swung high on gallows tree , A sight all good men loved to see . 
Onund and Ornolf , with the band that had escaped , fled to Denmark but were sometimes in Gautland , or in Viken . 
CONFERENCE BETWEEN ERLING AND EYSTEIN . 
but when summer came he proceeded north to Bergen , where at that time a great many people were assembled . 
There was the legate from Rome , Stephanus the Archbishop Eystein , and other bishops of the country . 
Erling If you augment your right , you must assist us to augment as much the king's right . 
Erling When Magnus was chosen king , it was done with your knowledge and consent , and also of all the other bishops here in the country . 
Besides , the mother of King Magnus is the daughter of a king and queen born in lawful wedlock , and Magnus is son of a queen and a lawfully married wife . 
Now if you will give him royal consecration , no man can take royalty from him . 
Svein Ulfson was not a king's son in Denmark , and still he was a crowned king , and his sons likewise , and all his descendants have been crowned kings . 
Now we have here in Norway an archiepiscopal seat , to the glory and honour of the country let us also have a crowned king , as well as the Danes and Englishmen . 
Erling and the archbishop afterwards talked often of this matter , and they were quite agreed . 
Then the archbishop brought the business before the legate , and got him easily persuaded to give his consent . 
Thereafter the archbishop called together the bishops , and other learned men , and explained the subject to them . 
They all replied in the same terms , that they would follow the counsels of the archbishop , and all were eager to promote the consecration as soon as the archbishop pleased . 
Erling Skakke then had a great feast prepared in the king's house . 
The large hall was covered with costly cloth and tapestry , and adorned with great expense . 
The court men and all the attendants were there entertained , and there were numerous guests , and many chiefs . 
Then King Magnus received the royal consecration from the Archbishop Eystein and at the consecration there were five other bishops and the legate , besides a number of other clergy . 
King Magnus was then eight years of age , and had been king for three years . 
ERLING AND THE PEOPLE OF VIKEN . 
of four districts and then Erling went there with his people . 
The bondes replied thus to Erling's speech Never will we become the Danish king's men , as long as one of us Viken men is in life . 
And so the Thing was dissolved . 
The ambassadors of the Danish king then returned home , and told the issue of their errand . 
Erling returned in autumn north to Bergen , stayed there all winter , and gave their pay to his people . 
LETTERS OF THE THRONDHJEM PEOPLE . 
some Danish people came by land through the Uplands , saying they were to go , as was then the general practice , to the holy King Olaf's festival . 
With this verbal message came also the Danish king's letter and seal , and a message to the Throndhjem people that they should send back their letters and seals to him . 
They did so , and the most of them received well the Danish king's message whereupon the messengers returned back towards Lent . 
Erling said this was mere folly and idle talk . 
When the vessels were ready , there came a strong southerly gale . 
Erling brought his vessels to Biskupshafn . 
Well , said Erling , since ye are so unwilling to row against the wind , raise the mast , hoist the sails , and let the ship go north . 
They did so , and sailed northwards both day and night . 
ERLING AND THE PEOPLE OF THRONDHJEM . 
Erling came to the town just as vespers was being sung in Christ church . 
Erling fell upon them and Alf was killed , with almost all his men . 
Few other men were killed for they had almost all gone to church , as this was the night before Christ's Ascension day . 
In the morning early , Erling called all the people by sound of trumpet to a Thing out upon Evrar . 
There was also a Danish man with Erling who had gone with the letters in winter , and whom Erling for that purpose had taken into his service . 
He told to these men the very words which each of them had used . 
And you , Razabard , spoke , striking your breast and the very words you used were , Out of this breast are all these counsels produced . 
Bard replied , I was wrong in the head , sirs , when I spoke so . 
There was now nothing to be done but to submit the case entirely to the sentence Erling might give upon it . 
Then Erling returned south to Bergen . 
KING VALDEMAR'S EXPEDITION TO NORWAY . 
a great army , and proceeded with it north to Viken . 
As soon as he reached the dominions of the king of Norway , the bondes assembled in a great multitude . 
When they came to Tunsberg , King Valdemar summoned a Hauga thing but nobody attended it from the country parts . 
All the others had a greater desire for a foray but the king ruled , and they all returned back to Denmark without effecting their purpose . 
They pillaged , however , all around in the distant islands , or where the king was not in the neighbourhood . 
They then returned south to Denmark without doing anything . 
But when he came to Lidandisnes , he heard that the Danish army had returned south to Denmark , after plundering all around them in Viken . 
Then Erling gave all the people of the levy permission to return home but he himself and some lendermen , with many vessels , sailed to Jutland after the Danes . 
When they came to a place called Dyrsa , the Danes who had returned from the expedition lay there with many ships . 
Thereafter , for a time , there was hostility between Norway and Denmark . 
to Denmark , to visit her relation King Valdemar , who was her cousin . 
The king received her kindly , and gave her fiefs in his kingdom , so that she could support her household well . 
She often conversed with the king , who was remarkably kind towards her . 
Kristin sent to Erling , and begged him to pay a visit to the Danish king , and enter into a peace with him . 
They went to the king's lodging , where the doors stood open , and the dishes were being carried in . 
Erling and his people went in immediately , and drew up in front of the high seat . 
Erling said , Peace and safe conduct we desire , king , both here and to return home . 
There were eighty of the king's men in the room , but all unarmed . 
The king replies , Peace ye shall have , Erling , according to thy desire for I will not use force or villainy against a man who comes to visit me . 
Erling then kissed the king's hand , went out , and down to his ship . 
Erling stayed at Randaros some time with the king , and they talked about terms of peace between them and between the countries . 
They agreed that Erling should remain as hostage with the Danish king and that Asbjorn Snara , Bishop Absalon's brother , should go to Norway as hostage on the other part . 
In a conference which King Valdemar and Erling once had together . 
Erling It was on that very consideration that I came here for I would not on any account in the world deprive myself of the advantage of your friendship . 
In days of old other men , Hakon Ivarson and Fin Arnason , came also from Norway to Denmark , and your predecessor , King Svein , made them both earls . 
Earl Erling went thereafter to Norway , and was earl afterwards as long as he lived and also the peace with the Danish king was afterwards always preserved . 
Earl Erling had four sons by his concubines . 
The princess Kristin and Earl Erling had a daughter called Ragnhild , who was married to Jon Thorbergson of Randaberg . 
Kristin went away from the country with a man called Grim Rusle and they went to Constantinople , where they were for a time , and had some children . 
Olaf , a son of Gudbrand Skafhaug , and Maria , a daughter of King Eystein Magnuson , were brought up in the house of Sigurd Agnhot in the Uplands . 
, Olaf and his foster father gathered a troop together , and many Upland people joined them and Olaf was chosen king by them . 
They went with their bands through the Uplands , and sometimes down to Viken , and sometimes east to the forest settlements but never came on board of ships . 
He had spies up the country after this troop , and went himself , along with Orm , the King brother , up the country to follow them . 
Now when they came to a lake called . 
they took all the vessels that were upon the lake . 
ENDNOTES The name of the lake not given . 
The priest who performed divine service at a place called Rydiokul , close by the lake , invited the earl to a feast at Candlemas . 
The earl promised to come and thinking it would be good to hear mass there , he rowed with his attendants over the lake the night before Candlemas day . 
But the priest had another plan on hand . 
He sent men to bring Olaf news of Earl Erling's arrival . 
The priest gave Erling strong drink in the evening , and let him have an excessive quantity of it . 
The priest replied , that only a small part of the night was gone , and told him to sleep in peace . 
The earl replied , I dream of many things to night , and I sleep ill . 
He slumbered again , but awoke soon , and told the priest to get up and sing mass . 
The priest told the earl to sleep , and said it was but midnight . 
Then the earl again lay down , slept a little while , and , springing out of bed , ordered his men to put on their clothes . 
They did so took their weapons , went to the church , and laid their arms outside while the priest was singing matins . 
As Olaf got the message in the evening , they travelled in the night six miles , which people considered an extraordinarily long march . 
They arrived at Rydiokul while the priest was still singing mass , and it was pitch dark . 
Olaf and his men went into the room , raised a war shout , and killed some of the earl's men who had not gone to the early mass . 
Now when Erling and his men heard the war shout , they ran to their weapons , and hastened down to their ships . 
Olaf and his men met them at a fence , at which there was a sharp conflict . 
Erling and his men retreated along the fence , which protected them . 
Erling had far fewer men , and many of them had fallen , and still more were wounded . 
Are Thorgeirson , father of Bishop Gudmund fell there , and many other of Erling's court men . 
Erling himself was wounded in the left side but some say he did it himself in drawing his sword . 
Orm the King brother was also severely wounded and with great difficulty they escaped to their ships , and instantly pushed off from land . 
It was generally considered as a most unlucky meeting for Olaf's people , as Earl Erling was in a manner sold into their hands , if they had proceeded with common prudence . 
He was afterwards called Olaf the Unlucky but others called his people Hat lads . 
They went with their bands through the Uplands as before . 
Erling again went down to Viken to his ships , and remained there all summer . 
Olaf was in the Uplands , and sometimes east in the forest districts , where he and his troop remained all the next winter . 
The following spring the Hat lads went down to Viken , and raised the king's taxes all around , and remained there long in summer . 
Sigurd Agnhot , and many others of Olaf's men , fell there but Olaf escaped by flight , went south to Denmark , and was all winter in Alaborg in Jutland . 
The following spring Olaf fell into an illness which ended in death , and he was buried in the Maria church and the Danes call him a saint . 
King Magnus had a lenderman called Nikolas Kufung , who was a son of Pal Skaptason . 
He took Harald prisoner , who called himself a son of King Sigurd Haraldson and the princess Kristin , and a brother of King Magnus by the mother's side . 
Nikolas brought Harald to Bergen , and delivered him into Earl Erling's hands . 
The earl replies , Thy friends advise thee badly . 
Thou wouldst govern this kingdom but a short time in peace and safety , if thou wert to follow the counsels of the heart only . 
Earl Erling ordered Harald to be taken to Nordnes , where he was beheaded . 
EYSTEIN EYSTEINSON AND THE BIRKEBEINS . 
There was a man called Eystein , who gave himself out for a son of King Eystein Haraldson . 
He was at this time young , and not full grown . 
Eystein explained his business to him , and asked their assistance . 
Both Earl Birger and his wife listened to him in a friendly way , and promised him their confidence , and he stayed with them a while . 
Earl Birger gave him some assistance of men , and a good sum for travelling expenses and both promised him their friendship on his taking leave . 
, and when he came down to Viken people flocked to him in crowds and Eystein was there proclaimed king , and he remained in Viken in winter . 
Their clothes being worn out , they wound the bark of the birch tree about their legs , and thus were called by the bondes Birkebeins . 
They often rushed down upon the settled districts , pushed on here or there , and made an assault where they did not find many people to oppose them . 
They had several battles with the bondes with various success and the Birkebeins held three battles in regular array , and gained the victory in them all . 
in Viken before they showed themselves in the northern parts of the country . 
BIRKEBEINS , KING EYSTEIN , AND SKAKKE . 
Magnus had been king for thirteen years when the Birkebeins first made their appearance . 
, with which they sailed along the coast gathering goods and men . 
They were first in Viken but when summer advanced they proceeded northwards , and so rapidly that no news preceded them until they came to Throndhjem . 
The Birkebeins' troop consisted principally of hill men and Elfgrims , and many were from Thelemark and all were well armed . 
Their king , Eystein , was a handsome man , and with a little but good countenance and he was not of great stature , for his men called him Eystein Meyla . 
King Magnus and Earl Erling were in Bergen when the Birkebeins sailed past it to the north but they did not hear of them . 
Erling was a tall strong made man , somewhat short necked and high shouldered had a long and sharp countenance of a light complexion , and his hair became very grey . 
He bore his head a little on one side was free and agreeable in his manners . 
He wore the old fashion of clothes , long body pieces and long arms to his coats , foreign cloak , and high shoes . 
He made the king wear the same kind of dress in his youth but when he grew up , and acted for himself , he dressed very sumptuously . 
King Magnus was of a light turn of mind , full of jokes a great lover of mirth , and not less of women . 
Nikolas was a distinguished chief , who had a farm at Ongul in Halogaland , which was called Steig . 
Nikolas had also a house in Nidaros , below Saint Jon's church , where Thorgeir the scribe lately dwelt . 
Nikolas was often in the town , and was president of the townspeople . 
Skialdvor , Nikolas's daughter , was married to Eirik Arnason , who was also a lenderman . 
It would be advisable to call the townspeople together with the war horns , to meet under arms out on Eyrar . 
Nikolas replies , I don't go after fishermen's reports but I shall send out spies to the fjord , and in the meantime hold a Thing to day . 
Nikolas replies , Thou art mixing everything together let us first hear mass , and then take our resolution . 
Nikolas then went into the church . 
When the mass was over Eirik went to Nikolas , and said , My horses are saddled I will ride away . 
Nikolas replies , Farewell , then we will hold a Thing to day on the Eyrar , and examine what force of men there may be in the town . 
Eirik rode away , and Nikolas went to his house , and then to dinner . 
The meat was scarcely put on the table , when a man came into the house to tell Nikolas that the Birkebeins were roving up the river . 
Then Nikolas called to his men to take their weapons . 
When they were armed Nikolas ordered them to go up into the loft . 
They called to Nikolas , and offered him quarter , but he refused it . 
Then they attacked the loft . 
Nikolas had a red shield in which were gilt nails , and about it was a border of stars . 
The Birkebeins shot so that the arrows went in up to the arrow feather . 
Then said Nikolas , My shield deceives me . 
Nikolas and a number of his people fell , and his death was greatly lamented . 
The Birkebeins gave all the towns people their lives . 
Eystein was then proclaimed king , and all the people submitted to him . 
They afterwards went to the Uplands , and on to Thoten and Hadaland , and from thence to Ringerike , and subdued the country wheresover they came . 
THE FALL OF KING EYSTEIN . 
King Magnus went to Tunsberg , where he and Orm held their Yule . 
When King Magnus heard that the Birkebeins were up in Re , the king and Orm proceeded thither with their men . 
There was much snow , and it was dreadfully cold . 
The Birkebeins were dispersed here and there in other farms , a few men in each house . 
Then the Birkebeins' banner was cut down those who were nearest gave way and some took to flight . 
King Magnus's men pursued them , and killed one after the other as they came up with them . 
Thus the Birkebeins could never form themselves in array and being exposed to the weapons of the enemy singly , many of them fell , and many fled . 
Now the main body of the Birkebeins began to fly , and many fell because Magnus's men killed all they could lay hold of , and not one of them got quarter . 
The whole body became scattered far and wide . 
Some went for the corpse , and bore it into the room , where the king told the people to come and inspect the body . 
A man saw the axe swinging , and pulled the king to a side , by which the axe struck lower in the shoulder , and made a large wound . 
It was discovered that he had dragged his entrails after him over the floor and this man's bravery was highly praised . 
King Magnus's men followed the fugitives , and killed so many that they were tired of it . 
Thorfin of Snos , and a very great number of Throndhjem people , fell there . 
The faction which called itself the Birkebeins had gathered together in great numbers . 
They were a hardy people , and the boldest of men under arms but wild , and going forward madly when they had a strong force . 
Of the men who escaped many were wounded , and had lost both their clothes and their arms , and were altogether destitute of money . 
Some went east to the borders , some went all the way east to Svithjod but the most of them went to Thelemark , where they had their families . 
All took flight , as they had no hope of getting their lives from King Magnus or Earl Erling . 
