Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk Hunted Down by Charles Dickens I. Most of us see some romances in life . 
As I have retired , and live at my ease , I possess the means that I used to want , of considering what I have seen , at leisure . 
My experiences have a more remarkable aspect , so reviewed , than they had when they were in progress . 
Let me recall one of these Romances of the real world . 
There is nothing truer than physiognomy , taken in connection with manner . 
some patience and some pains . 
I confess , for my part , that I HAVE been taken in , over and over again . 
by friends far oftener by friends than by any other class of persons . 
My mistake was in suffering them to come nearer to me and explain themselves away . 
The partition which separated my own office from our general outer office in the City was of thick plate glass . 
I could see through it what passed in the outer office , without hearing a word . 
I had it put up in place of a wall that had been there for years , ever since the house was built . 
It was through my glass partition that I first saw the gentleman whose story I am going to tell . 
as if he had said , in so many words 'You must take me , if you please , my friend , just as I show myself . 
Come straight up here , follow the gravel path , keep off the grass , I allow no trespassing . 
I conceived a very great aversion to that man the moment I thus saw him . 
He had asked for some of our printed forms , and the clerk was giving them to him and explaining them . 
An obliged and agreeable smile was on his face , and his eyes met those of the clerk with a sprightly look . 
I saw , in the corner of his eyelash , that he became aware of my looking at him . 
Immediately he turned the parting in his hair toward the glass partition , as if he said to me with a sweet smile , 'Straight up here , if you please . 
Off the grass ! In a few moments he had put on his hat and taken up his umbrella , and was gone . 
I beckoned the clerk into my room , and asked , 'Who was that ? He had the gentleman's card in his hand . 
Julius Slinkton , Middle Temple . 
'A barrister , Mr. Adams ? 'I think not , sir . 
'I should have thought him a clergyman , but for his having no Reverend here , said I. 'Probably , from his appearance , Mr. Adams replied , 'he is reading for orders . 
I should mention that he wore a dainty white cravat , and dainty linen altogether . 
'What did he want , Mr. Adams ? 'Merely a form of proposal , sir , and form of reference . 
'Recommended here ? Did he say ? 'Yes , he said he was recommended here by a friend of yours . 
He noticed you , but said that as he had not the pleasure of your personal acquaintance he would not trouble you . 
'Did he know my name ? 'O yes , sir ! He said , There IS Mr. Sampson , I see ! 'A well spoken gentleman , apparently ? 'Remarkably so , sir . 
'Insinuating manners , apparently ? 'Very much so , indeed , sir . 
'Hah ! said I. 'I want nothing at present , Mr. Adams . 
requiring everybody to come at him by the prepared way he offered , and by no other . 
I noticed him ask my friend to introduce him to Mr. Sampson , and my friend did so . 
Mr. Slinkton was very happy to see me . 
Not too happy there was no over doing of the matter happy in a thoroughly well bred , perfectly unmeaning way . 
'I thought you had met , our host observed . 
'No , said Mr. Slinkton . 
I said I should have been glad to show him any attention on our friend's introduction . 
'I am sure of that , said he , 'and am much obliged . 
At another time , perhaps , I may be less delicate . 
I acknowledged his consideration with a slight bow . 
'You were thinking , said I , 'of effecting a policy on your life . 
'O dear no ! I am afraid I am not so prudent as you pay me the compliment of supposing me to be , Mr. Sampson . 
I merely inquired for a friend . 
But you know what friends are in such matters . 
Nothing may ever come of it . 
I have the greatest reluctance to trouble men of business with inquiries for friends , knowing the probabilities to be a thousand to one that the friends will never follow them up . 
People are so fickle , so selfish , so inconsiderate . 
'In money ? said I. He laughed at my ready association of loss with money , and replied , 'No , in talent and vigour . 
Not at once following out his allusion , I considered for a moment . 
'HAS it sustained a loss of that kind ? said I. 'I was not aware of it . 
'Understand me , Mr. Sampson . 
I don't imagine that you have retired . 
It is not so bad as that . 
But Mr. Meltham 'O , to be sure ! said I. 'Yes ! Mr. Meltham , the young actuary of the Inestimable . 
'Just so , he returned in a consoling way . 
'He is a great loss . 
He was at once the most profound , the most original , and the most energetic man I have ever known connected with Life Assurance . 
I spoke strongly for I had a high esteem and admiration for Meltham and my gentleman had indefinitely conveyed to me some suspicion that he wanted to sneer at him . 
He recalled me to my guard by presenting that trim pathway up his head , with its internal 'Not on the grass , if you please the gravel . 
'You knew him , Mr. Slinkton . 
He was scarcely above thirty , I suppose ? 'About thirty . 
'Ah ! he sighed in his former consoling way . 
'What reason have you heard assigned , Mr. Slinkton ? I asked , point blank . 
'Most likely a false one . 
You know what Rumour is , Mr. Sampson . 
I never repeat what I hear it is the only way of paring the nails and shaving the head of Rumour . 
But when YOU ask me what reason I have heard assigned for Mr. Meltham's passing away from among men , it is another thing . 
I am not gratifying idle gossip then . 
I was told , Mr. Sampson , that Mr. Meltham had relinquished all his avocations and all his prospects , because he was , in fact , broken hearted . 
A disappointed attachment I heard , though it hardly seems probable , in the case of a man so distinguished and so attractive . 
'Attractions and distinctions are no armour against death , said I. 'O , she died ? Pray pardon me . 
I did not hear that . 
That , indeed , makes it very , very sad . 
Sampson , you are surprised to see me so moved on behalf of a man whom I have never known . 
I am not so disinterested as you may suppose . 
I have suffered , and recently too , from death myself . 
I have lost one of two charming nieces , who were my constant companions . 
She died young barely three and twenty and even her remaining sister is far from strong . 
The world is a grave ! He said this with deep feeling , and I felt reproached for the coldness of my manner . 
This state of mind being habitual to me , I troubled myself more about this conversation than I might have troubled myself about a greater matter . 
The company was of a varied character but he was not at fault , that I could discover , with any member of it . 
As he talked and talked but really not too much , for the rest of us seemed to force it upon him I became quite angry with myself . 
I took his face to pieces in my mind , like a watch , and examined it in detail . 
I could not say much against any of his features separately I could say even less against them when they were put together . 
I took my part in the conversation with him after a time , and we got on remarkably well . 
In the drawing room I asked the host how long he had known Mr. Slinkton . 
On the very next day but one I was sitting behind my glass partition , as before , when he came into the outer office , as before . 
The moment I saw him again without hearing him , I hated him worse than ever . 
It was only for a moment that I had this opportunity for he waved his tight fitting black glove the instant I looked at him , and came straight in . 
Sampson , good day ! I presume , you see , upon your kind permission to intrude upon you . 
I don't keep my word in being justified by business , for my business here if I may so abuse the word is of the slightest nature . 
I asked , was it anything I could assist him in ? 'I thank you , no . 
I merely called to inquire outside whether my dilatory friend had been so false to himself as to be practical and sensible . 
But , of course , he has done nothing . 
I gave him your papers with my own hand , and he was hot upon the intention , but of course he has done nothing . 
Apart from the general human disinclination to do anything that ought to be done , I dare say there is a specially about assuring one's life . 
You find it like will making . 
People are so superstitious , and take it for granted they will die soon afterwards . 
'Up here , if you please straight up here , Mr. Sampson . 
Neither to the right nor to the left . 
I almost fancied I could hear him breathe the words as he sat smiling at me , with that intolerable parting exactly opposite the bridge of my nose . 
'There is such a feeling sometimes , no doubt , I replied 'but I don't think it obtains to any great extent . 
'Well , said he , with a shrug and a smile , 'I wish some good angel would influence my friend in the right direction . 
I rashly promised his mother and sister in Norfolk to see it done , and he promised them that he would do it . 
But I suppose he never will . 
He spoke for a minute or two on indifferent topics , and went away . 
I had scarcely unlocked the drawers of my writing table next morning , when he reappeared . 
I noticed that he came straight to the door in the glass partition , and did not pause a single moment outside . 
'Can you spare me two minutes , my dear Mr. Sampson ? 'By all means . 
'Much obliged , laying his hat and umbrella on the table 'I came early , not to interrupt you . 
The fact is , I am taken by surprise in reference to this proposal my friend has made . 
'Has he made one ? said I. 'Ye es , he answered , deliberately looking at me and then a bright idea seemed to strike him 'or he only tells me he has . 
Perhaps that may be a new way of evading the matter . 
By Jupiter , I never thought of that ! Mr. Adams was opening the morning's letters in the outer office . 
'What is the name , Mr. Slinkton ? I asked . 
I looked out at the door and requested Mr. Adams , if there were a proposal in that name , to bring it in . 
He had already laid it out of his hand on the counter . 
It was easily selected from the rest , and he gave it me . 
Proposal to effect a policy with us for two thousand pounds . 
'From the Middle Temple , I see , Mr. Slinkton . 
He lives on the same staircase with me his door is opposite . 
I never thought he would make me his reference though . 
'It seems natural enough that he should . 
'Quite so , Mr. Sampson but I never thought of it . 
He took the printed paper from his pocket . 
But you do right to be particular . 
It stands to reason that you must be particular . 
Will you allow me to use your pen and ink ? 'Certainly . 
'And your desk ? 'Certainly . 
He had been hovering about between his hat and his umbrella for a place to write on . 
Before answering each question he ran over it aloud , and discussed it . 
How long had he known Mr. Alfred Beckwith ? That he had to calculate by years upon his fingers . 
What were his habits ? No difficulty about them temperate in the last degree , and took a little too much exercise , if anything . 
All the answers were satisfactory . 
When he had written them all , he looked them over , and finally signed them in a very pretty hand . 
He supposed he had now done with the business . 
I told him he was not likely to be troubled any farther . 
Should he leave the papers there ? If he pleased . 
I had had one other visitor before him not at the office , but at my own house . 
That visitor had come to my bedside when it was not yet daylight , and had been seen by no one else but by my faithful confidential servant . 
was sent down into Norfolk , and was duly received back by post . 
This , likewise , was satisfactorily answered in every respect . 
Our forms were all complied with we accepted the proposal , and the premium for one year was paid . 
For six or seven months I saw no more of Mr. Slinkton . 
He called once at my house , but I was not at home and he once asked me to dine with him in the Temple , but I was engaged . 
His friend's assurance was effected in March . 
Late in September or early in October I was down at Scarborough for a breath of sea air , where I met him on the beach . 
He was not alone , but had a young lady on his arm . 
She was dressed in mourning , and I looked at her with great interest . 
She had the appearance of being extremely delicate , and her face was remarkably pale and melancholy but she was very pretty . 
He introduced her as his niece , Miss Niner . 
'Are you strolling , Mr. Sampson ? Is it possible you can be idle ? It WAS possible , and I WAS strolling . 
'Shall we stroll together ? 'With pleasure . 
The young lady walked between us , and we walked on the cool sea sand , in the direction of Filey . 
'There have been wheels here , said Mr. Slinkton . 
'Not that one , Mr. Slinkton returned , laughing . 
'Margaret , my dear , tell Mr. Sampson . 
'Indeed , said the young lady , turning to me , 'there is nothing to tell except that I constantly see the same invalid old gentleman at all times , wherever I go . 
I have mentioned it to my uncle , and he calls the gentleman my shadow . 
'Does he live in Scarborough ? I asked . 
'Do you live in Scarborough ? 'No , I am staying here . 
My uncle has placed me with a family here , for my health . 
'And your shadow ? said I , smiling . 
'My shadow , she answered , smiling too , 'is like myself not very robust , I fear for I lose my shadow sometimes , as my shadow loses me at other times . 
We both seem liable to confinement to the house . 
I have not seen my shadow for days and days but it does oddly happen , occasionally , that wherever I go , for many days together , this gentleman goes . 
We have come together in the most unfrequented nooks on this shore . 
'Is this he ? said I , pointing before us . 
The wheels had swept down to the water's edge , and described a great loop on the sand in turning . 
Bringing the loop back towards us , and spinning it out as it came , was a hand carriage , drawn by a man . 
'Yes , said Miss Niner , 'this really is my shadow , uncle . 
He was drawn by a very quiet but very keen looking man , with iron gray hair , who was slightly lame . 
They had passed us , when the carriage stopped , and the old gentleman within , putting out his arm , called to me by my name . 
I went back , and was absent from Mr. Slinkton and his niece for about five minutes . 
When I rejoined them , Mr. Slinkton was the first to speak . 
'An old East India Director , said I. 'An intimate friend of our friend's , at whose house I first had the pleasure of meeting you . 
You have heard of him ? 'Never . 
'Very rich , Miss Niner but very old , and very crippled . 
An amiable man , sensible much interested in you . 
He has just been expatiating on the affection that he has observed to exist between you and your uncle . 
Mr. Slinkton was holding his hat again , and he passed his hand up the straight walk , as if he himself went up it serenely , after me . 
Sampson , he said , tenderly pressing his niece's arm in his , 'our affection was always a strong one , for we have had but few near ties . 
We have still fewer now . 
We have associations to bring us together , that are not of this world , Margaret . 
'Dear uncle ! murmured the young lady , and turned her face aside to hide her tears . 
If I remember a conversation we once had together , you will understand the reference I make . 
Cheer up , dear Margaret . 
Don't droop , don't droop . 
My Margaret ! I cannot bear to see you droop ! The poor young lady was very much affected , but controlled herself . 
His feelings , too , were very acute . 
I am sure he has lived single so long , only for my sake , and for my poor , poor sister's . 
The little hand carriage had made another great loop on the damp sand , and was coming back again , gradually spinning out a slim figure of eight , half a mile long . 
'Young lady , said I , looking around , laying my hand upon her arm , and speaking in a low voice , 'time presses . 
The figure on the sand was spun out , and straggled off into a crooked little jerk that ended at the cliff very near us . 
I did not remain there with her two minutes . 
With that figure beside her , I knew she was safe anywhere . 
I sat alone on the rock , awaiting Mr. Slinkton's return . 
'My niece not here , Mr. Sampson ? he said , looking about . 
'Miss Niner seemed to feel a chill in the air after the sun was down , and has gone home . 
He looked surprised , as though she were not accustomed to do anything without him even to originate so slight a proceeding . 
'I persuaded Miss Niner , I explained . 
'She is easily persuaded for her good . 
Thank you , Mr. Sampson she is better within doors . 
The bathing place was farther than I thought , to say the truth . 
'Miss Niner is very delicate , I observed . 
He shook his head and drew a deep sigh . 
'Very , very , very . 
You may recollect my saying so . 
The time that has since intervened has not strengthened her . 
The gloomy shadow that fell upon her sister so early in life seems , in my anxious eyes , to gather over her , ever darker , ever darker . 
Dear Margaret , dear Margaret ! But we must hope . 
The hand carriage was spinning away before us at a most indecorous pace for an invalid vehicle , and was making most irregular curves upon the sand . 
Mr. Slinkton , noticing it after he had put his handkerchief to his eyes , said 'If I may judge from appearances , your friend will be upset , Mr. Sampson . 
'It looks probable , certainly , said I. 'The servant must be drunk . 
'The servants of old gentlemen will get drunk sometimes , said I. 'The major draws very light , Mr. Sampson . 
'The major does draw light , said I. By this time the carriage , much to my relief , was lost in the darkness . 
We walked on for a little , side by side over the sand , in silence . 
I am going away to night . 
'So soon ? But business always holds you in request . 
Men like Mr. Sampson are too important to others , to be spared to their own need of relaxation and enjoyment . 
'I don't know about that , said I. 'However , I am going back . 
'To London ? 'To London . 
'I shall be there too , soon after you . 
I knew that as well as he did . 
But I did not tell him so . 
Any more than I told him what defensive weapon my right hand rested on in my pocket , as I walked by his side . 
Any more than I told him why I did not walk on the sea side of him with the night closing in . 
We left the beach , and our ways diverged . 
We exchanged goodnight , and had parted indeed , when he said , returning , 'Mr . 
'Dear , dear , dear ! said he , with great feeling . 
'Sad , sad , sad ! The world is a grave ! And so went his way . 
He went his way , and I went mine with all expedition . 
This happened , as I have said , either at the end of September or beginning of October . 
The next time I saw him , and the last time , was late in November . 
V. I had a very particular engagement to breakfast in the Temple . 
It was a bitter north easterly morning , and the sleet and slush lay inches deep in the streets . 
The appointment took me to some chambers in the Temple . 
They were at the top of a lonely corner house overlooking the river . 
ALFRED BECKWITH , was painted on the outer door . 
On the door opposite , on the same landing , the name MR . 
The doors of both sets of chambers stood open , so that anything said aloud in one set could be heard in the other . 
I had never been in those chambers before . 
'Slinkton is not come yet , said this creature , staggering up when I went in 'I'll call him . 
The voice of Mr. Slinkton was heard through the clatter from the opposite side of the staircase , and he came in . 
He had not expected the pleasure of meeting me . 
I have seen several artful men brought to a stand , but I never saw a man so aghast as he was when his eyes rested on mine . 
'Julius Caesar , cried Beckwith , staggering between us , 'Mist' Sampson ! Mist' Sampson , Julius Caesar ! Julius , Mist' Sampson , is the friend of my soul . 
Julius keeps me plied with liquor , morning , noon , and night . 
Julius is a real benefactor . 
Julius threw the tea and coffee out of window when I used to have any . 
Julius empties all the water jugs of their contents , and fills 'em with spirits . 
Julius winds me up and keeps me going . 
'Boil the brandy , Julius Caesar ! Come ! Do your usual office . 
Boil the brandy ! He became so fierce in his gesticulations with the saucepan , that I expected to see him lay open Slinkton's head with it . 
I therefore put out my hand to check him . 
He reeled back to the sofa , and sat there panting , shaking , and red eyed , in his rags of dressing gown , looking at us both . 
I noticed then that there was nothing to drink on the table but brandy , and nothing to eat but salted herrings , and a hot , sickly , highly peppered stew . 
'At all events , Mr. Sampson , said Slinkton , offering me the smooth gravel path for the last time , 'I thank you for interfering between me and this unfortunate man's violence . 
However you came here , Mr. Sampson , or with whatever motive you came here , at least I thank you for that . 
'Boil the brandy , muttered Beckwith . 
'I am sorry to say , Mr. Sampson , that my niece has proved treacherous and ungrateful to her best friend . 
She left me without a word of notice or explanation . 
She was misled , no doubt , by some designing rascal . 
Perhaps you may have heard of it . 
'I did hear that she was misled by a designing rascal . 
In fact , I have proof of it . 
'Are you sure of that ? said he . 
'Boil the brandy , muttered Beckwith . 
'Company to breakfast , Julius Caesar . 
Do your usual office , provide the usual breakfast , dinner , tea , and supper . 
Boil the brandy ! The eyes of Slinkton looked from him to me , and he said , after a moment's consideration , 'Mr . 
Sampson , you are a man of the world , and so am I. I will be plain with you . 
'O no , you won't , said I , shaking my head . 
'I tell you , sir , I will be plain with you . 
'And I tell you you will not , said I. 'I know all about you . 
YOU plain with any one ? Nonsense , nonsense ! 'I plainly tell you , Mr. Sampson , he went on , with a manner almost composed , 'that I understand your object . 
You want to save your funds , and escape from your liabilities these are old tricks of trade with you Office gentlemen . 
But you will not do it , sir you will not succeed . 
You have not an easy adversary to play against , when you play against me . 
We shall have to inquire , in due time , when and how Mr. Beckwith fell into his present habits . 
With that remark , sir , I put this poor creature , and his incoherent wanderings of speech , aside , and wish you a good morning and a better case next time . 
While he was saying this , Beckwith had filled a half pint glass with brandy . 
At this moment , he threw the brandy at his face , and threw the glass after it . 
Slinkton put his hands up , half blinded with the spirit , and cut with the glass across the forehead . 
Slinkton pulled out his handkerchief , assuaged the pain in his smarting eyes , and dabbled the blood on his forehead . 
I never in my life saw a face in which abhorrence and determination were so forcibly painted as in Beckwith's then . 
'Look at me , you villain , said Beckwith , 'and see me as I really am . 
I took these rooms , to make them a trap for you . 
I came into them as a drunkard , to bait the trap for you . 
You fell into the trap , and you will never leave it alive . 
On the morning when you last went to Mr. Sampson's office , I had seen him first . 
Your plot has been known to both of us , all along , and you have been counter plotted all along . 
Without any figure of speech , he staggered under it . 
Such a man commits murder , and murder is the natural culmination of his course such a man has to outface murder , and will do it with hardihood and effrontery . 
It is a sort of fashion to express surprise that any notorious criminal , having such crime upon his conscience , can so brave it out . 
He was white , he was haggard , he was changed but only as a sharper who had played for a great stake and had been outwitted and had lost the game . 
'Listen to me , you villain , said Beckwith , 'and let every word you hear me say be a stab in your wicked heart . 
Slinkton took out a snuff box , took a pinch of snuff , and laughed . 
'But see here , said Beckwith , never looking away , never raising his voice , never relaxing his face , never unclenching his hand . 
He can tell you , as well as you can tell him , that all this was recorded day by day , as a lesson of experience for future service . 
He can tell you , better than you can tell him , where that journal is at this moment . 
Slinkton stopped the action of his foot , and looked at Beckwith . 
'No , said the latter , as if answering a question from him . 
'Not in the drawer of the writing desk that opens with a spring it is not there , and it never will be there again . 
'Then you are a thief ! said Slinkton . 
With an imprecation Slinkton put his hand to his head , tore out some hair , and flung it to the ground . 
It was the end of the smooth walk he destroyed it in the action , and it will soon be seen that his use for it was past . 
Beckwith went on 'Whenever you left here , I left here . 
Although I understood that you found it necessary to pause in the completion of that purpose , to avert suspicion , still I watched you close , with the poor confiding girl . 
This is Mr. Sampson's trusty servant standing by the door . 
We three saved your niece among us . 
I hear you have had the name of Meltham on your lips sometimes ? I saw , in addition to those other changes , a sudden stoppage come upon his breathing . 
to Meltham's office , before taking her abroad to originate the transaction that doomed her to the grave , it fell to Meltham's lot to see her and to speak with her . 
It did not fall to his lot to save her , though I know he would freely give his own life to have done it . 
He admired her I would say he loved her deeply , if I thought it possible that you could understand the word . 
When she was sacrificed , he was thoroughly assured of your guilt . 
Having lost her , he had but one object left in life , and that was to avenge her and destroy you . 
I saw the villain's nostrils rise and fall convulsively but I saw no moving at his mouth . 
'You never saw me under my right name before you see me under my right name now . 
You shall see me once again in the body , when you are tried for your life . 
That was the fitting end of him . 
But I shall see her again elsewhere . 
It was in vain that I tried to rally him . 
He might have saved her , he said he had not saved her , and he reproached himself he had lost her , and he was broken hearted . 
'The purpose that sustained me is over , Sampson , and there is nothing now to hold me to life . 
I am not fit for life I am weak and spiritless I have no hope and no object my day is done . 
He died early in the next spring . 
He was buried by the side of the poor young lady for whom he had cherished those tender and unhappy regrets and he left all he had to her sister . 
