The Haunted Man and The Ghost's Bargain by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
uk The Haunted Man and The Ghost's Bargain CHAPTER I The Gift Bestowed EVERYBODY said so . 
Far be it from me to assert that what everybody says must be true . 
Everybody is , often , as likely to be wrong as right . 
Everybody may sometimes be right but THAT'S no rule , as the ghost of Giles Scroggins says in the ballad . 
The dread word , GHOST , recalls me . 
Everybody said he looked like a haunted man . 
The extent of my present claim for everybody is , that they were so far right . 
You should have seen him in his dwelling about twilight , in the dead winter time . 
When the wind was blowing , shrill and shrewd , with the going down of the blurred sun . 
When it was just so dark , as that the forms of things were indistinct and big but not wholly lost . 
When sitters by the fire began to see wild faces and figures , mountains and abysses , ambuscades and armies , in the coals . 
When people in the streets bent down their heads and ran before the weather . 
When windows of private houses closed up tight and warm . 
When lighted gas began to burst forth in the busy and the quiet streets , fast blackening otherwise . 
When stray pedestrians , shivering along the latter , looked down at the glowing fires in kitchens , and sharpened their sharp appetites by sniffing up the fragrance of whole miles of dinners . 
When travellers by land were bitter cold , and looked wearily on gloomy landscapes , rustling and shuddering in the blast . 
When mariners at sea , outlying upon icy yards , were tossed and swung above the howling ocean dreadfully . 
When lighthouses , on rocks and headlands , showed solitary and watchful and benighted sea birds breasted on against their ponderous lanterns , and fell dead . 
When , in rustic places , the last glimmering of daylight died away from the ends of avenues and the trees , arching overhead , were sullen and black . 
When mists arose from dyke , and fen , and river . 
When lights in old halls and in cottage windows , were a cheerful sight . 
When twilight everywhere released the shadows , prisoned up all day , that now closed in and gathered like mustering swarms of ghosts . 
When they stood lowering , in corners of rooms , and frowned out from behind half opened doors . 
When they had full possession of unoccupied apartments . 
When they danced upon the floors , and walls , and ceilings of inhabited chambers , while the fire was low , and withdrew like ebbing waters when it sprang into a blaze . 
When these shadows brought into the minds of older people , other thoughts , and showed them different images . 
When he sat , as already mentioned , gazing at the fire . 
When , as it rose and fell , the shadows went and came . 
When he took no heed of them , with his bodily eyes but , let them come or let them go , looked fixedly at the fire . 
You should have seen him , then . 
When the sounds that had arisen with the shadows , and come out of their lurking places at the twilight summons , seemed to make a deeper stillness all about him . 
When the wind was rumbling in the chimney , and sometimes crooning , sometimes howling , in the house . 
When a knock came at his door , in short , as he was sitting so , and roused him . 
Who's that ? said he . 
Come in ! Surely there had been no figure leaning on the back of his chair no face looking over it . 
It is certain that no gliding footstep touched the floor , as he lifted up his head , with a start , and spoke . 
But Mrs. William has been taken off her legs so often By the wind ? Ay ! I have heard it rising . 
By the wind , sir that it's a mercy she got home at all . 
It was by the wind , Mr. Redlaw . 
He had , by this time , put down the tray for dinner , and was employed in lighting the lamp , and spreading a cloth on the table . 
Mrs. William is of course subject at any time , sir , to be taken off her balance by the elements . 
She is not formed superior to THAT . 
No , returned Mr. Redlaw good naturedly , though abruptly . 
Mrs. William may be taken off her balance by Fire as on a false alarm of engines at her mother's , when she went two miles in her nightcap . 
Mrs. William must be taken out of elements for the strength of HER character to come into play . 
As he stopped for a reply , the reply was Yes , in the same tone as before . 
Oh dear , yes ! said Mr. Swidger , still proceeding with his preparations , and checking them off as he made them . 
That's where it is , sir . 
That's what I always say myself , sir . 
Such a many of us Swidgers ! Pepper . 
Why there's my father , sir , superannuated keeper and custodian of this Institution , eighty seven year old . 
He's a Swidger ! Spoon . 
True , William , was the patient and abstracted answer , when he stopped again . 
Yes , sir , said Mr. Swidger . 
That's what I always say , sir . 
You may call him the trunk of the tree ! Bread . 
Then you come to his successor , my unworthy self Salt and Mrs. William , Swidgers both . 
Then you come to all my brothers and their families , Swidgers , man and woman , boy and girl . 
The moment he succeeded , he went on , as if in great alacrity of acquiescence . 
Yes , sir ! That's just what I say myself , sir . 
Mrs. William and me have often said so . 
'There's Swidgers enough , we say , 'without OUR voluntary contributions , Butter . 
Quite ready for the fowl and mashed potatoes , sir ? Mrs. William said she'd dish in ten minutes when I left the Lodge . 
I am quite ready , said the other , waking as from a dream , and walking slowly to and fro . 
Mrs. William has been at it again , sir ! said the keeper , as he stood warming a plate at the fire , and pleasantly shading his face with it . 
Mr. Redlaw stopped in his walking , and an expression of interest appeared in him . 
What I always say myself , sir . 
She WILL do it ! There's a motherly feeling in Mrs. William's breast that must and will have went . 
Well ? said Mr. Redlaw . 
That's just what I say myself , sir , returned Mr. William , speaking over his shoulder , as if in ready and delighted assent . 
That's exactly where it is , sir ! There ain't one of our students but appears to regard Mrs. William in that light . 
'Swidge' is the appellation by which they speak of Mrs. William in general , among themselves , I'm told but that's what I say , sir . 
If Mrs. William is known by something better than her name I allude to Mrs. William's qualities and disposition never mind her name , though it IS Swidger , by rights . 
Let 'em call her Swidge , Widge , Bridge Lord ! London Bridge , Blackfriars , Chelsea , Putney , Waterloo , or Hammersmith Suspension if they like . 
Mrs. William , like Mr. William , was a simple , innocent looking person , in whose smooth cheeks the cheerful red of her husband's official waistcoat was very pleasantly repeated . 
Here's Mrs. William , sir ! He looks lonelier than ever to night , whispering to his wife , as he was taking the tray , and ghostlier altogether . 
What is that the old man has in his arms ? asked Mr. Redlaw , as he sat down to his solitary meal . 
Holly , sir , replied the quiet voice of Milly . 
That's what I say myself , sir , interposed Mr. William , striking in with the butter boat . 
Berries is so seasonable to the time of year ! Brown gravy ! Another Christmas come , another year gone ! murmured the Chemist , with a gloomy sigh . 
More figures in the lengthening sum of recollection that we work and work at to our torment , till Death idly jumbles all together , and rubs all out . 
My duty to you , sir , returned the old man . 
Have had a pretty many of 'em myself ha , ha ! and may take the liberty of wishing 'em . 
I'm eighty seven ! Have you had so many that were merry and happy ? asked the other . 
Ay , sir , ever so many , returned the old man . 
Is his memory impaired with age ? It is to be expected now , said Mr. Redlaw , turning to the son , and speaking lower . 
Not a morsel of it , sir , replied Mr. William . 
That's exactly what I say myself , sir . 
There never was such a memory as my father's . 
He's the most wonderful man in the world . 
He don't know what forgetting means . 
It recalls the time when many of those years were old and new , then ? he said , observing him attentively , and touching him on the shoulder . 
Does it ? Oh many , many ! said Philip , half awaking from his reverie . 
I'm eighty seven ! Merry and happy , was it ? asked the Chemist in a low voice . 
The pretty little fellow thought that's me , you understand that birds' eyes were so bright , perhaps , because the berries that they lived on in the winter were so bright . 
And I'm eighty seven ! Merry and happy ! mused the other , bending his dark eyes upon the stooping figure , with a smile of compassion . 
Merry and happy and remember well ? Ay , ay , ay ! resumed the old man , catching the last words . 
I remember 'em well in my school time , year after year , and all the merry making that used to come along with them . 
I was a strong chap then , Mr. Redlaw and , if you'll believe me , hadn't my match at football within ten mile . 
You ARE a Swidger , if ever there was one of the family ! Dear ! said the old man , shaking his head as he again looked at the holly . 
It's a blessed thing to me , at eighty seven . 
The keen look that had been fixed upon him with so much earnestness , had gradually sought the ground . 
Two times ought's an ought , and twice five ten , and there's a hundred of 'em . 
There was something homely and friendly in it . 
Yes , sure , it's the second on the right , above the panelling . 
The room began to darken strangely . 
The quiet Mouse had brought her calm face to his side , and silently taken his arm , before he finished speaking . 
Come away , my dear , said the old man . 
Mr. Redlaw won't settle to his dinner , otherwise , till it's cold as the winter . 
Spare me another moment , Philip . 
William , you were going to tell me something to your excellent wife's honour . 
It will not be disagreeable to her to hear you praise her . 
What was it ? Why , that's where it is , you see , sir , returned Mr. William Swidger , looking towards his wife in considerable embarrassment . 
Mrs. William's got her eye upon me . 
But you're not afraid of Mrs. William's eye ? Why , no , sir , returned Mr. Swidger , that's what I say myself . 
It wasn't made to be afraid of . 
It wouldn't have been made so mild , if that was the intention . 
But I wouldn't like to Milly ! him , you know . 
Him , you know , my love , said Mr. William . 
Tell , my dear ! You're the works of Shakespeare in comparison with myself . 
Down in the Buildings , you know , my love . 
Student ? repeated Mr. Redlaw , raising his head . 
That's what I say , sir ! cried Mr. William , in the utmost animation of assent . 
If it wasn't the poor student down in the Buildings , why should you wish to hear it from Mrs. William's lips ? Mrs. William , my dear Buildings . 
I didn't know , said Milly , with a quiet frankness , free from any haste or confusion , that William had said anything about it , or I wouldn't have come . 
I asked him not to . 
Why have I never heard of him ? said the Chemist , rising hurriedly . 
Why has he not made his situation known to me ? Sick ! give me my hat and cloak . 
Not go there ? Oh dear , no ! said Milly , shaking her head as at a most manifest and self evident impossibility . 
Depend upon it , the young gentleman would never have made his situation known to one of his own sex . 
Mrs. Williams has got into his confidence , but that's quite different . 
They all confide in Mrs. William they all trust HER . 
And laying his finger on his lip , he secretly put his purse into her hand . 
Oh dear no , sir ! cried Milly , giving it back again . 
I have made no terms of secrecy with you , but I trust to your honour completely . 
But I know he is poor , and lonely , and I think he is somehow neglected too . 
How dark it is ! The room had darkened more and more . 
There was a very heavy gloom and shadow gathering behind the Chemist's chair . 
What more about him ? he asked . 
He is engaged to be married when he can afford it , said Milly , and is studying , I think , to qualify himself to earn a living . 
I have seen , a long time , that he has studied hard and denied himself much . 
How very dark it is ! It's turned colder , too , said the old man , rubbing his hands . 
There's a chill and dismal feeling in the room . 
about some one dead , and some great wrong done that could never be forgotten but whether to him or to another person , I don't know . 
Not BY him , I am sure . 
, a creature more like a young wild beast than a young child , shivering upon a door step . 
I may desire to see this student , I'll not detain you any longer now . 
Good night ! I thank'ee , sir , I thank'ee ! said the old man , for Mouse , and for my son William , and for myself . 
Where's my son William ? William , you take the lantern and go on first , through them long dark passages , as you did last year and the year afore . 
'Lord , keep my memory green ! It's very good and pious , sir . 
As he fell a musing in his chair alone , the healthy holly withered on the wall , and dropped dead branches . 
This , then , was the Something that had passed and gone already . 
This was the dread companion of the haunted man ! It took , for some moments , no more apparent heed of him , than he of it . 
The Christmas Waits were playing somewhere in the distance , and , through his thoughtfulness , he seemed to listen to the music . 
It seemed to listen too . 
At length he spoke without moving or lifting up his face . 
Here again ! he said . 
Here again , replied the Phantom . 
I see you in the fire , said the haunted man I hear you in music , in the wind , in the dead stillness of the night . 
The Phantom moved its head , assenting . 
Why do you come , to haunt me thus ? I come as I am called , replied the Ghost . 
No. Unbidden , exclaimed the Chemist . 
Unbidden be it , said the Spectre . 
But , now , the haunted man turned , suddenly , and stared upon the Ghost . 
The Ghost , as sudden in its motion , passed to before the chair , and stared on him . 
The living man , and the animated image of himself dead , might so have looked , the one upon the other . 
Look upon me ! said the Spectre . 
I AM that man , returned the Chemist . 
No mother's self denying love , pursued the Phantom , no father's counsel , aided ME . 
A stranger came into my father's place when I was but a child , and I was easily an alien from my mother's heart . 
It paused , and seemed to tempt and goad him with its look , and with the manner of its speech , and with its smile . 
I am he , pursued the Phantom , who , in this struggle upward , found a friend . 
I made him won him bound him to me ! We worked together , side by side . 
All the love and confidence that in my earlier youth had had no outlet , and found no expression , I bestowed on him . 
Not all , said Redlaw , hoarsely . 
No , not all , returned the Phantom . 
How young she was , how fair , how loving ! I took her to the first poor roof that I was master of , and made it rich . 
She came into the darkness of my life , and made it bright . 
She is before me ! I saw her , in the fire , but now . 
I hear her in music , in the wind , in the dead stillness of the night , returned the haunted man . 
DID he love her ? said the Phantom , echoing his contemplative tone . 
I think he did , once . 
I am sure he did . 
It did , said Redlaw . 
A love , as like hers , pursued the Phantom , as my inferior nature might cherish , arose in my own heart . 
I was too poor to bind its object to my fortune then , by any thread of promise or entreaty . 
I loved her far too well , to seek to do it . 
But , more than ever I had striven in my life , I strove to climb ! Only an inch gained , brought me something nearer to the height . 
They come back to me in music , in the wind , in the dead stillness of the night , in the revolving years . 
Pictures of my own domestic life , in aftertime , with her who was the inspiration of my toil . 
Pictures , said the haunted man , that were delusions . 
Why is it my doom to remember them too well ! Delusions , echoed the Phantom in its changeless voice , and glaring on him with its changeless eyes . 
, passing between me and the centre of the system of my hopes and struggles , won her to himself , and shattered my frail universe . 
Died , gentle as ever happy and with no concern but for her brother . 
Peace ! The Phantom watched him silently . 
Remembered ! said the haunted man , after a pause . 
Sometimes I even wonder when her heart first inclined to him , and how it had been affected towards me . 
Not lightly , once , I think . 
Early unhappiness , a wound from a hand I loved and trusted , and a loss that nothing can replace , outlive such fancies . 
Thus , said the Phantom , I bear within me a Sorrow and a Wrong . 
Thus I prey upon myself . 
Why have I always that taunt in my ears ? Forbear ! exclaimed the Spectre in an awful voice . 
Lay a hand on Me , and die ! He stopped midway , as if its words had paralysed him , and stood looking on it . 
It had glided from him it had its arm raised high in warning and a smile passed over its unearthly features , as it reared its dark figure in triumph . 
If I could forget my sorrow and wrong , I would , the Ghost repeated . 
It is an echo , said the Phantom . 
I suffer it to range beyond myself . 
All men and women have their sorrows , most of them their wrongs ingratitude , and sordid jealousy , and interest , besetting all degrees of life . 
Who would not forget their sorrows and their wrongs ? Who would not , truly , and be happier and better for it ? said the Phantom . 
Receive it as a proof that I am powerful , returned the Ghost . 
Hear what I offer ! Forget the sorrow , wrong , and trouble you have known ! Forget them ! he repeated . 
I have the power to cancel their remembrance to leave but very faint , confused traces of them , that will die out soon , returned the Spectre . 
Say ! Is it done ? Stay ! cried the haunted man , arresting by a terrified gesture the uplifted hand . 
I tremble with distrust and doubt of you and the dim fear you cast upon me deepens into a nameless horror I can hardly bear . 
I would not deprive myself of any kindly recollection , or any sympathy that is good for me , or others . 
Are they so many ? said the haunted man , reflecting in alarm . 
In nothing else ? The Phantom held its peace . 
But having stood before him , silent , for a little while , it moved towards the fire then stopped . 
My memory is as the memory of other men , but other men have not this choice . 
Yes , I close the bargain . 
Yes ! I WILL forget my sorrow , wrong , and trouble ! Say , said the Spectre , is it done ? It is ! IT IS . 
And take this with you , man whom I here renounce ! The gift that I have given , you shall give again , go where you will . 
Without recovering yourself the power that you have yielded up , you shall henceforth destroy its like in all whom you approach . 
Go ! Be its benefactor ! Freed from such remembrance , from this hour , carry involuntarily the blessing of such freedom with you . 
Its diffusion is inseparable and inalienable from you . 
What is it ? he said , hastily . 
He might have asked What is it ? even had he seen it well , as presently he did when he stood looking at it gathered up in its corner . 
A bundle of tatters , held together by a hand , in size and form almost an infant's , but in its greedy , desperate little clutch , a bad old man's . 
A face rounded and smoothed by some half dozen years , but pinched and twisted by the experiences of a life . 
Bright eyes , but not youthful . 
Naked feet , beautiful in their childish delicacy , ugly in the blood and dirt that cracked upon them . 
He looked upon it now , coldly but with a heavy effort to remember something he did not know what he asked the boy what he did there , and whence he came . 
Where's the woman ? he replied . 
I want to find the woman . 
Her that brought me here , and set me by the large fire . 
She was so long gone , that I went to look for her , and lost myself . 
Come ! you let me go ! muttered the boy , struggling , and clenching his teeth . 
I've done nothing to you . 
Let me go , will you , to the woman ! That is not the way . 
There is a nearer one , said Redlaw , detaining him , in the same blank effort to remember some association that ought , of right , to bear upon this monstrous object . 
What is your name ? Got none . 
The Chemist led him to the door . 
This way , he said , looking at him still confusedly , but with repugnance and avoidance , growing out of his coldness . 
I'll take you to her . 
The sharp eyes in the child's head , wandering round the room , lighted on the table where the remnants of the dinner were . 
Give me some of that ! he said , covetously . 
The gift that I have given , you shall give again , go where you will ! The Phantom's words were blowing in the wind , and the wind blew chill upon him . 
I'll not go there , to night , he murmured faintly . 
I'll go nowhere to night . 
Boy ! straight down this long arched passage , and past the great dark door into the yard , you see the fire shining on the window there . 
The woman's fire ? inquired the boy . 
He nodded , and the naked feet had sprung away . 
He came back with his lamp , locked his door hastily , and sat down in his chair , covering his face like one who was frightened at himself . 
For now he was , indeed , alone . 
CHAPTER II The Gift Diffused A SMALL man sat in a small parlour , partitioned off from a small shop by a small screen , pasted all over with small scraps of newspapers . 
, and then withdrew to their own territory . 
Its personality may be said to have consisted in its never being quiet , in any one place , for five consecutive minutes , and never going to sleep when required . 
Tetterby's baby was as well known in the neighbourhood as the postman or the pot boy . 
Wherever childhood congregated to play , there was little Moloch making Johnny fag and toil . 
Wherever Johnny desired to stay , little Moloch became fractious , and would not remain . 
Whenever Johnny wanted to go out , Moloch was asleep , and must be watched . 
Whenever Johnny wanted to stay at home , Moloch was awake , and must be taken out . 
Indeed , strictly speaking , he was the only personage answering to that designation , as Co . 
was a mere poetical abstraction , altogether baseless and impersonal . 
Tetterby's was the corner shop in Jerusalem Buildings . 
There was a good show of literature in the window , chiefly consisting of picture newspapers out of date , and serial pirates , and footpads . 
Walking sticks , likewise , and marbles , were included in the stock in trade . 
Tetterby's had tried its hand at several things . 
It had made a move in the millinery direction , which a few dry , wiry bonnet shapes remained in a corner of the window to attest . 
But , to that hour , Jerusalem Buildings had bought none of them . 
Oh , father ! whimpered Johnny , when I wasn't doing anything , I'm sure , but taking such care of Sally , and getting her to sleep . 
They make my head go round , and get the better of me . 
Nor was it lost upon the two young architects , who retired to bed , in an adjoining closet , with great privacy and speed . 
The comrade of the Intercepted One also shrinking into his nest with similar discretion , Mr. Tetterby , when he paused for breath , found himself unexpectedly in a scene of peace . 
'It is an undoubted fact that all remarkable men have had remarkable mothers , and have respected them in after life as their best friends . 
Johnny , my child , take care of your only sister , Sally for she's the brightest gem that ever sparkled on your early brow . 
Johnny sat down on a little stool , and devotedly crushed himself beneath the weight of Moloch . 
I can't bear it , when I think of Sally . 
Mr. Tetterby desisting , Johnny , with a profound sense of his trust , wiped his eyes , and hushed his sister . 
Your brother 'Dolphus , said his father , poking the fire , is late to night , Johnny , and will come home like a lump of ice . 
What's got your precious mother ? Here's mother , and 'Dolphus too , father ! exclaimed Johnny , I think . 
You're right ! returned his father , listening . 
Yes , that's the footstep of my little woman . 
The process of induction , by which Mr Tetterby had come to the conclusion that his wife was a little woman , was his own secret . 
She would have made two editions of himself , very easily . 
Considered as an individual , she was rather remarkable for being robust and portly but considered with reference to her husband , her dimensions became magnificent . 
Nor did they assume a less imposing proportion , when studied with reference to the size of her seven sons , who were but diminutive . 
The satisfaction of this third desire completely exhausted the sacrifice , who had hardly breath enough left to get back to his stool , crush himself again , and pant at his relations . 
Whatever you do , Johnny , said Mrs. Tetterby , shaking her head , take care of her , or never look your mother in the face again . 
Nor your brother , said Adolphus . 
Nor your father , Johnny , added Mr. Tetterby . 
, and rocked her with his foot . 
Are you wet , 'Dolphus , my boy ? said his father . 
Come and take my chair , and dry yourself . 
No , father , thank'ee , said Adolphus , smoothing himself down with his hands . 
I an't very wet , I don't think . 
Does my face shine much , father ? Well , it DOES look waxy , my boy , returned Mr. Tetterby . 
It's the weather , father , said Adolphus , polishing his cheeks on the worn sleeve of his jacket . 
What with rain , and sleet , and wind , and snow , and fog , my face gets quite brought out into a rash sometimes . 
, were as well known as the hoarse panting of the locomotives , running in and out . 
Ah , dear me , dear me , dear me ! said Mrs. Tetterby . 
That's the way the world goes ! Which is the way the world goes , my dear ? asked Mr. Tetterby , looking round . 
Oh , nothing , said Mrs. Tetterby . 
Ah , dear me , dear me , dear me ! said Mrs. Tetterby . 
That's the way the world goes ! My duck , returned her husband , looking round again , you said that before . 
Which is the way the world goes ? Oh , nothing ! said Mrs. Tetterby . 
Sophia ! remonstrated her husband , you said THAT before , too . 
Well , I'll say it again if you like , returned Mrs. Tetterby . 
Who said I was put out at all ? I never did . 
Your supper will be ready in a minute , 'Dolphus , said Mr. Tetterby . 
Your mother has been out in the wet , to the cook's shop , to buy it . 
It was very good of your mother so to do . 
YOU shall get some supper too , very soon , Johnny . 
Your mother's pleased with you , my man , for being so attentive to your precious sister . 
It was very good of your mother so to do until Mrs. Tetterby , who had been exhibiting sundry tokens of contrition behind him , caught him round the neck , and wept . 
Had no more idea than the baby , said Mrs. Tetterby . 
I see ! said Mr. Tetterby . 
I understand ! My little woman was put out . 
Hard times , and hard weather , and hard work , make it trying now and then . 
Hand in your plate , my boy , and begin while it's simmering . 
Master Adolphus , needing no second summons , received his portion with eyes rendered moist by appetite , and withdrawing to his particular stool , fell upon his supper tooth and nail . 
Johnny was not forgotten , but received his rations on bread , lest he should , in a flush of gravy , trickle any on the baby . 
He was required , for similar reasons , to keep his pudding , when not on active service , in his pocket . 
Mrs. Tetterby did not enjoy her supper . 
There seemed to be something on Mrs. Tetterby's mind . 
My little woman , said Mr. Tetterby , if the world goes that way , it appears to go the wrong way , and to choke you . 
Give me a drop of water , said Mrs. Tetterby , struggling with herself , and don't speak to me for the present , or take any notice of me . 
, and demanded why he was wallowing there , in gluttony and idleness , instead of coming forward with the baby , that the sight of her might revive his mother . 
After a pause , Mrs. Tetterby said she was better now , and began to laugh . 
With that , settling her hair , and pressing the palms of her hands upon her eyes , she laughed again . 
What a wicked fool I was , to think so for a moment ! said Mrs. Tetterby . 
Come nearer , 'Dolphus , and let me ease my mind , and tell you what I mean . 
Let me tell you all about it . 
Mr. Tetterby bringing his chair closer , Mrs. Tetterby laughed again , gave him a hug , and wiped her eyes . 
You know , Dolphus , my dear , said Mrs. Tetterby , that when I was single , I might have given myself away in several directions . 
At one time , four after me at once two of them were sons of Mars . 
We're all sons of Ma's , my dear , said Mr. Tetterby , jointly with Pa's . 
I don't mean that , replied his wife , I mean soldiers serjeants . 
Oh ! said Mr. Tetterby . 
Well ! I'll tell you the whole truth , pursued his wife , penitently , and then perhaps you will . 
I see , said her husband quietly if you hadn't married at all , or if you had married somebody else ? Yes , sobbed Mrs. Tetterby . 
That's really what I thought . 
Do you hate me now , 'Dolphus ? Why no , said Mr. Tetterby . 
I don't find that I do , as yet . 
Mrs. Tetterby gave him a thankful kiss , and went on . 
I begin to hope you won't , now , 'Dolphus , though I'm afraid I haven't told you the worst . 
I can't think what came over me . 
All the pleasures and enjoyments we had ever had THEY seemed so poor and insignificant , I hated them . 
I could have trodden on them . 
And I could think of nothing else , except our being poor , and the number of mouths there were at home . 
Well , well , my dear , said Mr. Tetterby , shaking her hand encouragingly , that's truth , after all . 
We ARE poor , and there ARE a number of mouths at home here . 
Her cry was so terrified , that the children started from their sleep and from their beds , and clung about her . 
Nor did her gaze belie her voice , as she pointed to a pale man in a black cloak who had come into the room . 
Look at that man ! Look there ! What does he want ? My dear , returned her husband , I'll ask him if you'll let me go . 
What's the matter ! How you shake ! I saw him in the street , when I was out just now . 
He looked at me , and stood near me . 
I am afraid of him . 
Afraid of him ! Why ? I don't know why I stop ! husband ! for he was going towards the stranger . 
Are you ill , my dear ? What is it that is going from me again ? she muttered , in a low voice . 
What IS this that is going away ? Then she abruptly answered Ill ? No , I am quite well , and stood looking vacantly at the floor . 
My little woman says perhaps you heard her say it , returned Mr. Tetterby , that it's not the first time you have alarmed her to night . 
I am sorry for it . 
I remember to have observed her , for a few moments only , in the street . 
I had no intention of frightening her . 
As he raised his eyes in speaking , she raised hers . 
It was extraordinary to see what dread she had of him , and with what dread he observed it and yet how narrowly and closely . 
My name , he said , is Redlaw . 
I come from the old college hard by . 
A young gentleman who is a student there , lodges in your house , does he not ? Mr. Denham ? said Tetterby . 
The Chemist , instantly transferring to him the look of dread he had directed towards the wife , stepped back , and his face turned paler . 
The gentleman's room , said Tetterby , is upstairs , sir . 
Yes , I wish to see him , said the Chemist . 
Can you spare a light ? The watchfulness of his haggard look , and the inexplicable distrust that darkened it , seemed to trouble Mr. Tetterby . 
He paused and looking fixedly at him in return , stood for a minute or so , like a man stupefied , or fascinated . 
At length he said , I'll light you , sir , if you'll follow me . 
No , replied the Chemist , I don't wish to be attended , or announced to him . 
He does not expect me . 
I would rather go alone . 
Please to give me the light , if you can spare it , and I'll find the way . 
In the quickness of his expression of this desire , and in taking the candle from the newsman , he touched him on the breast . 
, he turned and ascended the stair . 
But when he reached the top , he stopped and looked down . 
The wife was standing in the same place , twisting her ring round and round upon her finger . 
The husband , with his head bent forward on his breast , was musing heavily and sullenly . 
The children , still clustering about the mother , gazed timidly after the visitor , and nestled together when they saw him looking down . 
Come ! said the father , roughly . 
Get to bed here ! The place is inconvenient and small enough , the mother added , without you . 
Get to bed ! The whole brood , scared and sad , crept away little Johnny and the baby lagging last . 
The father betook himself to the chimney corner , and impatiently raking the small fire together , bent over it as if he would monopolise it all . 
They did not interchange a word . 
The Chemist , paler than before , stole upward like a thief looking back upon the change below , and dreading equally to go on or return . 
What have I done ! he said , confusedly . 
What am I going to do ! To be the benefactor of mankind , he thought he heard a voice reply . 
It is only since last night , he muttered gloomily , that I have remained shut up , and yet all things are strange to me . 
I am strange to myself . 
I am here , as in a dream . 
Being invited , by a voice within , to enter , he complied . 
Is that my kind nurse ? said the voice . 
But I need not ask her . 
There is no one else to come here . 
Being so near the windy house top , it wasted quickly , and with a busy sound , and the burning ashes dropped down fast . 
They chink when they shoot out here , said the student , smiling , so , according to the gossips , they are not coffins , but purses . 
The student , recalling the thin hand which had remained so long untouched , raised himself on the couch , and turned his head . 
Mr. Redlaw ! he exclaimed , and started up . 
Redlaw put out his arm . 
Don't come nearer to me . 
I heard , by an accident , by what accident is no matter , that one of my class was ill and solitary . 
I received no other description of him , than that he lived in this street . 
Beginning my inquiries at the first house in it , I have found him . 
I have been ill , sir , returned the student , not merely with a modest hesitation , but with a kind of awe of him , but am greatly better . 
An attack of fever of the brain , I believe has weakened me , but I am much better . 
I cannot say I have been solitary , in my illness , or I should forget the ministering hand that has been near me . 
You are speaking of the keeper's wife , said Redlaw . 
The student bent his head , as if he rendered her some silent homage . 
I remembered your name , he said , when it was mentioned to me down stairs , just now and I recollect your face . 
We have held but very little personal communication together ? Very little . 
You have retired and withdrawn from me , more than any of the rest , I think ? The student signified assent . 
And why ? said the Chemist not with the least expression of interest , but with a moody , wayward kind of curiosity . 
You know my secret ! Secret ? said the Chemist , harshly . 
of your natural kindness and of the bar there is between us . 
A vacant and contemptuous laugh , was all his answer . 
Sorrow ! said Redlaw , laughing . 
Let me occupy my old reserved and distant place among those whom you instruct . 
Know me only by the name I have assumed , and not by that of Longford Longford ! exclaimed the other . 
He clasped his head with both his hands , and for a moment turned upon the young man his own intelligent and thoughtful face . 
But the light passed from it , like the sun beam of an instant , and it clouded as before . 
The name my mother bears , sir , faltered the young man , the name she took , when she might , perhaps , have taken one more honoured . 
Mr. Redlaw , hesitating , I believe I know that history . 
Where my information halts , my guesses at what is wanting may supply something not remote from the truth . 
I am the child of a marriage that has not proved itself a well assorted or a happy one . 
From infancy , I have heard you spoken of with honour and respect with something that was almost reverence . 
with Mr. Redlaw's generous name . 
The past is past , said the Chemist . 
It dies like the brutes . 
I came to offer it and that is all I came for . 
There can be nothing else that brings me here , he muttered , holding his head again , with both his hands . 
There CAN be nothing else , and yet He had tossed his purse upon the table . 
As he fell into this dim cogitation with himself , the student took it up , and held it out to him . 
Take it back , sir , he said proudly , though not angrily . 
I wish you could take from me , with it , the remembrance of your words and offer . 
You do ? he retorted , with a wild light in his eyes . 
There is sorrow and trouble in sickness , is there not ? he demanded , with a laugh . 
The wondering student answered , Yes . 
In its unrest , in its anxiety , in its suspense , in all its train of physical and mental miseries ? said the Chemist , with a wild unearthly exultation . 
All best forgotten , are they not ? The student did not answer , but again passed his hand , confusedly , across his forehead . 
Redlaw still held him by the sleeve , when Milly's voice was heard outside . 
I can see very well now , she said , thank you , Dolf . 
Father and mother will be comfortable again , to morrow , and home will be comfortable too . 
A gentleman with him , is there ! Redlaw released his hold , as he listened . 
I have feared , from the first moment , he murmured to himself , to meet her . 
There is a steady quality of goodness in her , that I dread to influence . 
I may be the murderer of what is tenderest and best within her bosom . 
She was knocking at the door . 
Shall I dismiss it as an idle foreboding , or still avoid her ? he muttered , looking uneasily around . 
She was knocking at the door again . 
Of all the visitors who could come here , he said , in a hoarse alarmed voice , turning to his companion , this is the one I should desire most to avoid . 
Hide me ! The student opened a frail door in the wall , communicating where the garret roof began to slope towards the floor , with a small inner room . 
Redlaw passed in hastily , and shut it after him . 
The student then resumed his place upon the couch , and called to her to enter . 
Dear Mr. Edmund , said Milly , looking round , they told me there was a gentleman here . 
There is no one here but I. There has been some one ? Yes , yes , there has been some one . 
She put her little basket on the table , and went up to the back of the couch , as if to take the extended hand but it was not there . 
A little surprised , in her quiet way , she leaned over to look at his face , and gently touched him on the brow . 
Are you quite as well to night ? Your head is not so cool as in the afternoon . 
Tut ! said the student , petulantly , very little ails me . 
It's the new muslin curtain for the window , Mr. Edmund , said Milly , stitching away as she talked . 
It will look very clean and nice , though it costs very little , and will save your eyes , too , from the light . 
My William says the room should not be too light just now , when you are recovering so well , or the glare might make you giddy . 
He said nothing but there was something so fretful and impatient in his change of position , that her quick fingers stopped , and she looked at him anxiously . 
The pillows are not comfortable , she said , laying down her work and rising . 
I will soon put them right . 
They are very well , he answered . 
Leave them alone , pray . 
You make so much of everything . 
He raised his head to say this , and looked at her so thanklessly , that , after he had thrown himself down again , she stood timidly pausing . 
However , she resumed her seat , and her needle , without having directed even a murmuring look towards him , and was soon as busy as before . 
Health will be more precious to you , after this illness , than it has ever been . 
Ah ! said Milly , with her pretty head inclining thoughtfully on one side , as she looked down , following her busy fingers with her eyes . 
His getting up from the couch , interrupted her , or she was going on to say more . 
We needn't magnify the merit , Mrs. William , he rejoined slightingly . 
The people down stairs will be paid in good time I dare say , for any little extra service they may have rendered me and perhaps they anticipate no less . 
I am much obliged to you , too . 
Her fingers stopped , and she looked at him . 
I can't be made to feel the more obliged by your exaggerating the case , he said . 
I am sensible that you have been interested in me , and I say I am much obliged to you . 
What more would you have ? Her work fell on her lap , as she still looked at him walking to and fro with an intolerant air , and stopping now and then . 
I say again , I am much obliged to you . 
Oh ! I think nothing about it , my good creature , he returned . 
I have had an indisposition , which your solicitude observe ! I say solicitude makes a great deal more of , than it merits and it's over , and we can't perpetuate it . 
He coldly took a book , and sat down at the table . 
Except said Milly , hesitating , and showing her work . 
Oh ! the curtain , he answered , with a supercilious laugh . 
That's not worth staying for . 
She made up the little packet again , and put it in her basket . 
When you did want me , I was quite happy to come there was no merit in it . 
I think you must be afraid , that , now you are getting well , I may be troublesome to you but I should not have been , indeed . 
I should have come no longer than your weakness and confinement lasted . 
That is why I am sorry . 
That is why I am very sorry . 
He was gazing drearily upon the place where she had been , when Redlaw came out of his concealment , and came to the door . 
What change have you wrought in me ? What curse have you brought upon me ? Give me back MYself ! Give me back myself ! exclaimed Redlaw like a madman . 
I am infected ! I am infectious ! I am charged with poison for my own mind , and the minds of all mankind . 
Where I felt interest , compassion , sympathy , I am turning into stone . 
Selfishness and ingratitude spring up in my blighting footsteps . 
I am only so much less base than the wretches whom I make so , that in the moment of their transformation I can hate them . 
This put it in his mind he suddenly bethought himself , as he was going along , of the boy who had rushed into his room . 
And then he recollected , that of those with whom he had communicated since the Phantom's disappearance , that boy alone had shown no sign of being changed . 
The keeper's house stood just within the iron gates , forming a part of the chief quadrangle . 
There was a little cloister outside , and from that sheltered place he knew he could look in at the window of their ordinary room , and see who was within . 
The fire , to which he had directed the boy last night , shining brightly through the glass , made an illuminated place upon the ground . 
Instinctively avoiding this , and going round it , he looked in at the window . 
He passed quickly to the door , opened it , and went in . 
The creature lay in such a fiery heat , that , as the Chemist stooped to rouse him , it scorched his head . 
Get up ! said the Chemist . 
You have not forgotten me ? You let me alone ! returned the boy . 
This is the woman's house not yours . 
The Chemist's steady eye controlled him somewhat , or inspired him with enough submission to be raised upon his feet , and looked at . 
Who washed them , and put those bandages where they were bruised and cracked ? asked the Chemist , pointing to their altered state . 
And is it she who has made you cleaner in the face , too ? Yes , the woman . 
Where are they ? he inquired . 
Where is the old man with the white hair , and his son ? The woman's husband , d'ye mean ? inquired the boy . 
Where are those two ? Out . 
Something's the matter , somewhere . 
They were fetched out in a hurry , and told me to stop here . 
Come with me , said the Chemist , and I'll give you money . 
Come where ? and how much will you give ? I'll give you more shillings than you ever saw , and bring you back soon . 
Do you know your way to where you came from ? You let me go , returned the boy , suddenly twisting out of his grasp . 
I'm not a going to take you there . 
Let me be , or I'll heave some fire at you ! He was down before it , and ready , with his savage little hand , to pluck the burning coals out . 
Listen , boy ! he said . 
You shall take me where you please , so that you take me where the people are very miserable or very wicked . 
I want to do them good , and not to harm them . 
You shall have money , as I have told you , and I will bring you back . 
Get up ! Come quickly ! He made a hasty step towards the door , afraid of her returning . 
I will ! And let me go , before , behind , or anyways I like ? I will ! Give me some money first , then , and go . 
The Chemist laid a few shillings , one by one , in his extended hand . 
To count them was beyond the boy's knowledge , but he said one , every time , and avariciously looked at each as it was given , and at the donor . 
He had nowhere to put them , out of his hand , but in his mouth and he put them there . 
Redlaw then wrote with his pencil on a leaf of his pocket book , that the boy was with him and laying it on the table , signed to him to follow . 
Keeping his rags together , as usual , the boy complied , and went out with his bare head and naked feet into the winter night . 
When they got into the street , he stopped to ask his guide who instantly retreated from him if he knew where they were . 
The savage thing looked here and there , and at length , nodding his head , pointed in the direction he designed to take . 
Three times , in their progress , they were side by side . 
Three times they stopped , being side by side . 
Three times the Chemist glanced down at his face , and shuddered as it forced upon him one reflection . 
In there ! said the boy , pointing out the house again . 
Will they let me in ? asked Redlaw . 
Say you're a doctor , he answered with a nod . 
He had no pity for the thing , but he was afraid of it and when it looked out of its den at him , he hurried to the house as a retreat . 
Sorrow , wrong , and trouble , said the Chemist , with a painful effort at some more distinct remembrance , at least haunt this place darkly . 
He can do no harm , who brings forgetfulness of such things here ! With these words , he pushed the yielding door , and went in . 
There was a woman sitting on the stairs , either asleep or forlorn , whose head was bent down on her hands and knees . 
As it was not easy to pass without treading on her , and as she was perfectly regardless of his near approach , he stopped , and touched her on the shoulder . 
Looking up , she showed him quite a young face , but one whose bloom and promise were all swept away , as if the haggard winter should unnaturally kill the spring . 
With little or no show of concern on his account , she moved nearer to the wall to leave him a wider passage . 
What are you ? said Redlaw , pausing , with his hand upon the broken stair rail . 
What do you think I am ? she answered , showing him her face again . 
I am come here to give relief , if I can , he said . 
Are you thinking of a wrong ? he asked once more . 
I am thinking of my life , she said , with a monetary look at him . 
He had a perception that she was one of many , and that he saw the type of thousands , when he saw her , drooping at his feet . 
What are your parents ? he demanded . 
I had a good home once . 
My father was a gardener , far away , in the country . 
Is he dead ? He's dead to me . 
All such things are dead to me . 
You a gentleman , and not know that ! She raised her eyes again , and laughed at him . 
He drew a little off , and in doing so , observed that her arms were black , her face cut , and her bosom bruised . 
What brutal hand has hurt you so ? he asked . 
I did it myself ! she answered quickly . 
I'll swear I did ! He didn't touch me . 
I did it to myself in a passion , and threw myself down here . 
Sorrow , wrong , and trouble ! he muttered , turning his fearful gaze away . 
But this man , on seeing him , drew back , with much emotion in his manner , and , as if by a sudden impulse , mentioned his name aloud . 
In the surprise of such a recognition there , he stopped , endeavouring to recollect the wan and startled face . 
He had no time to consider it , for , to his yet greater amazement , old Philip came out of the room , and took him by the hand . 
Ah , too late , too late ! Redlaw , with a bewildered look , submitted to be led into the room . 
A man lay there , on a truckle bed , and William Swidger stood at the bedside . 
Too late ! murmured the old man , looking wistfully into the Chemist's face and the tears stole down his cheeks . 
That's what I say , father , interposed his son in a low voice . 
That's where it is , exactly . 
To keep as quiet as ever we can while he's a dozing , is the only thing to do . 
You're right , father ! Redlaw paused at the bedside , and looked down on the figure that was stretched upon the mattress . 
It was that of a man , who should have been in the vigour of his life , but on whom it was not likely the sun would ever shine again . 
Who is this ? asked the Chemist , looking round . 
My son George , Mr. Redlaw , said the old man , wringing his hands . 
William , he said in a gloomy whisper , who is that man ? Why you see , sir , returned Mr. William , that's what I say , myself . 
Just exactly that , sir , returned William Swidger , as I'm told . 
What a mournful spectacle , sir ! But that's where it is . 
Yielding to a certain sullen doggedness , which it seemed to be a part of his condition to struggle with , he argued for remaining . 
Father ! murmured the sick man , rallying a little from stupor . 
My boy ! My son George ! said old Philip . 
You spoke , just now , of my being mother's favourite , long ago . 
It's a dreadful thing to think now , of long ago ! No , no , no returned the old man . 
It's not dreadful to me , my son . 
It cuts you to the heart , father . 
For the old man's tears were falling on him . 
Yes , yes , said Philip , so it does but it does me good . 
It's a heavy sorrow to think of that time , but it does me good , George . 
Those were her words to me . 
I have never forgotten them , and I'm eighty seven ! Father ! said the man upon the bed , I am dying , I know . 
I am so far gone , that I can hardly speak , even of what my mind most runs on . 
Is there any hope for me beyond this bed ? There is hope , returned the old man , for all who are softened and penitent . 
There is hope for all such . 
Oh ! he exclaimed , clasping his hands and looking up , I was thankful , only yesterday , that I could remember this unhappy son when he was an innocent child . 
Ah ! feebly moaned the man upon the bed . 
The waste since then , the waste of life since then ! But he was a child once , said the old man . 
Before he lay down on his bed at night , and fell into his guiltless rest , he said his prayers at his poor mother's knee . 
I have seen him do it , many a time and seen her lay his head upon her breast , and kiss him . 
When did man ever tremble , as Redlaw trembled , in the silence that ensued ! He knew it must come upon them , knew that it was coming fast . 
Is it a man ? What I say myself , George , interposed his brother , bending kindly over him . 
I thought I had dreamed of him . 
Ask him to come here . 
The Chemist , whiter than the dying man , appeared before him . 
Obedient to the motion of his hand , he sat upon the bed . 
There was another man here . 
But he made some indication of assent . 
He is penniless , hungry , and destitute . 
He is completely beaten down , and has no resource at all . 
Look after him ! Lose no time ! I know he has it in his mind to kill himself . 
It was on his face . 
His face was changing , hardening , deepening in all its shades , and losing all its sorrow . 
Don't you remember ? Don't you know him ? he pursued . 
He shut his face out for a moment , with the hand that again wandered over his forehead , and then it lowered on Redlaw , reckless , ruffianly , and callous . 
Why , d n you ! he said , scowling round , what have you been doing to me here ! I have lived bold , and I mean to die bold . 
If Redlaw had been struck by lightning , it could not have struck him from the bedside with a more tremendous shock . 
But the old man , who had left the bed while his son was speaking to him , now returning , avoided it quickly likewise , and with abhorrence . 
Where's my boy William ? said the old man hurriedly . 
William , come away from here . 
Home , father ! returned William . 
Are you going to leave your own son ? Where's my own son ? replied the old man . 
Where ? why , there ! That's no son of mine , said Philip , trembling with resentment . 
No such wretch as that , has any claim on me . 
My children are pleasant to look at , and they wait upon me , and get my meat and drink ready , and are useful to me . 
I've a right to it ! I'm eighty seven ! You're old enough to be no older , muttered William , looking at him grudgingly , with his hands in his pockets . 
I don't know what good you are , myself . 
We could have a deal more pleasure without you . 
MY son , Mr. Redlaw ! said the old man . 
Let me think , said the old man . 
I I'm eighty seven , said the old man , rambling on , childishly and weakly , and I don't know as I ever was much put out by anything . 
I'm not going to begin now , because of what he calls my son . 
I've had a power of pleasant times . 
I recollect once no I don't no , it's broken off . 
It was something about a game of cricket and a friend of mine , but it's somehow broken off . 
I wonder who he was I suppose I liked him ? And I wonder what became of him I suppose he died ? But I don't know . 
And I don't care , neither I don't care a bit . 
In his drowsy chuckling , and the shaking of his head , he put his hands into his waistcoat pockets . 
, which he now took out , and looked at . 
Berries , eh ? said the old man . 
Ah ! It's a pity they're not good to eat . 
I don't remember as I ever walked with any one particular , or cared for any one , or any one for me . 
Berries , eh ? There's good cheer when there's berries . 
Well I ought to have my share of it , and to be waited on , and kept warm and comfortable for I'm eighty seven , and a poor old man . 
His guide came crawling forth from his place of refuge , and was ready for him before he reached the arches . 
Back to the woman's ? he inquired . 
Back , quickly ! answered Redlaw . 
He unlocked it with his key , went in , accompanied by the boy , and hastened through the dark passages to his own chamber . 
The boy watched him as he made the door fast , and withdrew behind the table , when he looked round . 
Don't you touch me ! You've not brought me here to take my money away . 
Redlaw threw some more upon the ground . 
starting up , and running towards the door . 
Here's the woman coming ! he exclaimed . 
The Chemist stopped him on his way , at the moment when she knocked . 
Let me go to her , will you ? said the boy . 
Not now , returned the Chemist . 
Nobody must pass in or out of the room now . 
Who's that ? It's I , sir , cried Milly . 
Pray , sir , let me in ! No ! not for the world ! he said . 
Mr. Redlaw , Mr. Redlaw , pray , sir , let me in . 
What is the matter ? he said , holding the boy . 
The miserable man you saw , is worse , and nothing I can say will wake him from his terrible infatuation . 
William's father has turned childish in a moment , William himself is changed . 
The shock has been too sudden for him I cannot understand him he is not like himself . 
Oh , Mr. Redlaw , pray advise me , help me ! No ! No ! No ! he answered . 
Mr. Redlaw ! Dear sir ! George has been muttering , in his doze , about the man you saw there , who , he fears , will kill himself . 
I know , now , that it is the same with good and evil , happiness and sorrow , in the memories of men . 
Pity me ! Relieve me ! There was no response , but her Help me , help me , let me in ! and the boy's struggling to get to her . 
Undo what I have done . 
Leave me benighted , but restore the day to those whom I have cursed . 
Before it on the ground the boy lay fast asleep . 
In his chair , the Chemist sat , as he had sat there since the calling at his door had ceased like a man turned to stone . 
At such a time , the Christmas music he had heard before , began to play . 
His memory of sorrow , wrong , and trouble , had not come back to him he knew that it was not restored he had no passing belief or hope that it was . 
But some dumb stir within him made him capable , again , of being moved by what was hidden , afar off , in the music . 
If it were only that it told him sorrowfully the value of what he had lost , he thanked Heaven for it with a fervent gratitude . 
As the last chord died upon his ear , he raised his head to listen to its lingering vibration . 
Beyond the boy , so that his sleeping figure lay at its feet , the Phantom stood , immovable and silent , with its eyes upon him . 
Ghastly it was , as it had ever been , but not so cruel and relentless in its aspect or he thought or hoped so , as he looked upon it trembling . 
It was not alone , but in its shadowy hand it held another hand . 
A radiant light fell on her face , but did not touch the Phantom for , though close beside her , it was dark and colourless as ever . 
Spectre ! said the Chemist , newly troubled as he looked , I have not been stubborn or presumptuous in respect of her . 
Oh , do not bring her here . 
Spare me that ! This is but a shadow , said the Phantom when the morning shines seek out the reality whose image I present before you . 
Is it my inexorable doom to do so ? cried the Chemist . 
It is , replied the Phantom . 
To destroy her peace , her goodness to make her what I am myself , and what I have made of others ! I have said seek her out , returned the Phantom . 
I have said no more . 
Oh , tell me , exclaimed Redlaw , catching at the hope which he fancied might lie hidden in the words . 
Can I undo what I have done ? No , returned the Phantom . 
I do not ask for restoration to myself , said Redlaw . 
What I abandoned , I abandoned of my own free will , and have justly lost . 
Ah ! Can she ? cried Redlaw , still looking upon the shade . 
The Phantom released the hand it had retained till now , and softly raised its own with a gesture of dismissal . 
Upon that , her shadow , still preserving the same attitude , began to move or melt away . 
Stay , cried Redlaw with an earnestness to which he could not give enough expression . 
For a moment ! As an act of mercy ! I know that some change fell upon me , when those sounds were in the air just now . 
At least , say this has she , henceforth , the consciousness of any power to set right what I have done ? She has not , the Phantom answered . 
Has she the power bestowed on her without the consciousness ? The phantom answered Seek her out . 
And her shadow slowly vanished . 
But there is one thing You speak to me of what is lying here , the phantom interposed , and pointed with its finger to the boy . 
I do , returned the Chemist . 
You know what I would ask . 
All within this desolate creature is barren wilderness . 
All within the man bereft of what you have resigned , is the same barren wilderness . 
There is not , said the Phantom , one of these not one but sows a harvest that mankind MUST reap . 
Open and unpunished murder in a city's streets would be less guilty in its daily toleration , than one such spectacle as this . 
It seemed to look down upon the boy in his sleep . 
Redlaw , too , looked down upon him with a new emotion . 
There is not a country throughout the earth on which it would not bring a curse . 
There is no religion upon earth that it would not deny there is no people upon earth it would not put to shame . 
The Chemist clasped his hands , and looked , with trembling fear and pity , from the sleeping boy to the Phantom , standing above him with his finger pointing down . 
Behold , I say , pursued the Spectre , the perfect type of what it was your choice to be . 
Your influence is powerless here , because from this child's bosom you can banish nothing . 
His thoughts have been in 'terrible companionship' with yours , because you have gone down to his unnatural level . 
He is the growth of man's indifference you are the growth of man's presumption . 
The beneficent design of Heaven is , in each case , overthrown , and from the two poles of the immaterial world you come together . 
The Tetterbys were up , and doing . 
Adolphus had been out so long already , that he was halfway on to Morning Pepper . 
Five small Tetterbys , whose ten round eyes were much inflamed by soap and friction , were in the tortures of a cool wash in the back kitchen Mrs. Tetterby presiding . 
It was a peculiarity of this baby to be always cutting teeth . 
, a bone ring , large enough to have represented the rosary of a young nun . 
The amount of electricity that must have been rubbed out of it in a week , is not to be calculated . 
Still Mrs. Tetterby always said it was coming through , and then the child would be herself and still it never did come through , and the child continued to be somebody else . 
The tempers of the little Tetterbys had sadly changed with a few hours . 
Mr. and Mrs. Tetterby themselves were not more altered than their offspring . 
contentedly and even generously , and taking a great deal of enjoyment out of a very little meat . 
But they were fighting now , not only for the soap and water , but even for the breakfast which was yet in perspective . 
Mrs. Tetterby had him into the parlour by the collar , in that same flash of time , and repaid him the assault with usury thereto . 
You brute , you murdering little boy , said Mrs. Tetterby . 
Yes , like it , said Johnny . 
How would you ? Not at all . 
If you was me , you'd go for a soldier . 
There an't no babies in the Army . 
I'm a slave a Virginia slave some indistinct association with their weak descent on the tobacco trade perhaps suggested this aggravated expression to Mrs. Tetterby . 
How you stand there , 'Dolphus , said Mrs. Tetterby to her husband . 
Why don't you do something ? Because I don't care about doing anything , Mr. Tetterby replied . 
I am sure I don't , said Mrs. Tetterby . 
I'll take my oath I don't , said Mr. Tetterby . 
You had better read your paper than do nothing at all , said Mrs. Tetterby . 
What's there to read in a paper ? returned Mr. Tetterby , with excessive discontent . 
What ? said Mrs. Tetterby . 
It's nothing to me , said Tetterby . 
What do I care what people do , or are done to ? Suicides , suggested Mrs. Tetterby . 
No business of mine , replied her husband . 
Births , deaths , and marriages , are those nothing to you ? said Mrs. Tetterby . 
As to marriages , I've done it myself . 
I know quite enough about THEM . 
You won't find me doing so any more . 
Bah ! wiser , indeed ! said Mrs. Tetterby . 
Are you better ? The question sounded some discordant note in Mr. Tetterby's breast . 
He ruminated dejectedly , and passed his hand across and across his forehead . 
Better ! murmured Mr. Tetterby . 
I don't know as any of us are better , or happier either . 
Better , is it ? He turned to the screen , and traced about it with his finger , until he found a certain paragraph of which he was in quest . 
How old and shabby he looks , said Mrs. Tetterby , watching him . 
I never saw such a change in a man . 
Ah ! dear me , dear me , dear me , it was a sacrifice ! What was a sacrifice ? her husband sourly inquired . 
Mrs. Tetterby shook her head and without replying in words , raised a complete sea storm about the baby , by her violent agitation of the cradle . 
If you mean your marriage was a sacrifice , my good woman said her husband . 
I DO mean it said his wife . 
I wish it hadn't , Tetterby , with all my heart and soul I do assure you , said his wife . 
You can't wish it more than I do , Tetterby . 
I don't know what I saw in her , muttered the newsman , I'm sure certainly , if I saw anything , it's not there now . 
I was thinking so , last night , after supper , by the fire . 
She's fat , she's ageing , she won't bear comparison with most other women . 
He's common looking , he has no air with him , he's small , he's beginning to stoop and he's getting bald , muttered Mrs. Tetterby . 
I must have been half out of my mind when I did it , muttered Mr. Tetterby . 
My senses must have forsook me . 
That's the only way in which I can explain it to myself , said Mrs. Tetterby with elaboration . 
In this mood they sat down to breakfast . 
These children will be the death of me at last ! said Mrs. Tetterby , after banishing the culprit . 
And the sooner the better , I think . 
Poor people , said Mr. Tetterby , ought not to have children at all . 
They give US no pleasure . 
Here ! Mother ! Father ! cried Johnny , running into the room . 
Mr. Tetterby rubbed his forehead Mrs. Tetterby rubbed hers . 
Mr. Tetterby's face began to smooth and brighten Mrs. Tetterby's began to smooth and brighten . 
Am I a brute , said Mr. Tetterby , or is there any good in me at all ? Sophia ! My little woman ! 'Dolphus dear , returned his wife . 
I I've been in a state of mind , said Mr. Tetterby , that I can't abear to think of , Sophy . 
Oh ! It's nothing to what I've been in , Dolf , cried his wife in a great burst of grief . 
My Sophia , said Mr. Tetterby , don't take on . 
I never shall forgive myself . 
I must have nearly broke your heart , I know . 
No , Dolf , no . 
It was me ! Me ! cried Mrs. Tetterby . 
My little woman , said her husband , don't . 
You make me reproach myself dreadful , when you show such a noble spirit . 
Sophia , my dear , you don't know what I thought . 
I showed it bad enough , no doubt but what I thought , my little woman ! Oh , dear Dolf , don't ! Don't ! cried his wife . 
Sophia , said Mr. Tetterby , I must reveal it . 
I couldn't rest in my conscience unless I mentioned it . 
My little woman Mrs. William's very nearly here ! screamed Johnny at the door . 
and I quarrelled with you for having aged a little in the rough years you have lightened for me . 
Can you believe it , my little woman ? I hardly can myself . 
Mrs. Tetterby , in a whirlwind of laughing and crying , caught his face within her hands , and held it there . 
Oh , Dolf ! she cried . 
I thought that you were small and so you are , and I'll make much of you because you are , and more of you because I love my husband . 
I thought that you began to stoop and so you do , and you shall lean on me , and I'll do all I can to keep you up . 
Mr. and Mrs. Tetterby were not a bit behind hand in the warmth of their reception . 
They were as much attracted to her as the children were they ran towards her , kissed her hands , pressed round her , could not receive her ardently or enthusiastically enough . 
She came among them like the spirit of all goodness , affection , gentle consideration , love , and domesticity . 
What ! are YOU all so glad to see me , too , this bright Christmas morning ? said Milly , clapping her hands in a pleasant wonder . 
Oh dear ! said Milly , what delicious tears you make me shed . 
How can I ever have deserved this ! What have I done to be so loved ? Who can help it ! cried Mr. Tetterby . 
Who can help it ! cried Mrs. Tetterby . 
Who can help it ! echoed the children , in a joyful chorus . 
I never was so moved , said Milly , drying her eyes , as I have been this morning . 
I must tell you , as soon as I can speak . 
, who caught me by the hand , and blessed me as I passed . 
She was right ! said Mr. Tetterby . 
Mrs. Tetterby said she was right . 
All the children cried out that she was right . 
Ah , but there's more than that , said Milly . 
, his hand felt for mine , so that some one else was obliged to take my place and make believe to give him my hand back . 
Oh dear , oh dear , said Milly , sobbing . 
Upon those stairs he now appeared again remaining there , while the young student passed him , and came running down . 
I was not myself , he said . 
I don't know what it was it was some consequence of my disorder perhaps I was mad . 
But I am so no longer . 
Almost as I speak , I am restored . 
I heard the children crying out your name , and the shade passed from me at the very sound of it . 
It is such deep reproach . 
No , no , said Milly , it's not that . 
It's wonder that you should think it necessary to ask me to forgive so little , and yet it's pleasure that you do . 
And will you come again ? and will you finish the little curtain ? No , said Milly , drying her eyes , and shaking her head . 
You won't care for my needlework now . 
Is it forgiving me , to say that ? She beckoned him aside , and whispered in his ear . 
There is news from your home , Mr. Edmund . 
Then there's some one come ! said Milly . 
My mother ? asked the student , glancing round involuntarily towards Redlaw , who had come down from the stairs . 
Hush ! No , said Milly . 
It can be no one else . 
Indeed ? said Milly , are you sure ? It is not Before he could say more , she put her hand upon his mouth . 
Yes it is ! said Milly . 
was too unhappy to rest without satisfying her doubts , and came up , last night , with a little servant maid . 
As you always dated your letters from the college , she came there and before I saw Mr. Redlaw this morning , I saw her . 
SHE likes me too ! said Milly . 
He pressed her hand , and was darting off , but she detained him . 
Mr. Redlaw is much altered , and has told me this morning that his memory is impaired . 
Be very considerate to him , Mr. Edmund he needs that from us all . 
Redlaw returned the salutation courteously and even humbly , and looked after him as he passed on . 
He dropped his head upon his hand too , as trying to reawaken something he had lost . 
, he felt that he was quite dependent on her , and that she was his staff in his affliction . 
As she came in at the door , both started , and turned round towards her , and a radiant change came upon their faces . 
Oh dear , dear , dear , they are all pleased to see me like the rest ! cried Milly , clapping her hands in an ecstasy , and stopping short . 
Here are two more ! Pleased to see her ! Pleasure was no word for it . 
But the old man couldn't spare her . 
He had arms for her too , and he locked her in them . 
Why , where has my quiet Mouse been all this time ? said the old man . 
She has been a long while away . 
I find that it's impossible for me to get on without Mouse . 
I where's my son William ? I fancy I have been dreaming , William . 
That's what I say myself , father , returned his son . 
I have been in an ugly sort of dream , I think . 
How are you , father ? Are you pretty well ? Strong and brave , my boy , returned the old man . 
I never was fresher or stouter in my life , my boy . 
What a wonderful man you are , father ! But that's exactly where it is , said Mr. William , with enthusiasm . 
I ask your pardon , Mr. Redlaw , said Philip , but didn't know you were here , sir , or should have made less free . 
Ha ! ha ! I'm old enough to remember that and I remember it right well , I do , though I am eight seven . 
It was after you left here that my poor wife died . 
You remember my poor wife , Mr. Redlaw ? The Chemist answered yes . 
Yes , said the old man . 
She was a dear creetur . 
I had a sister , he said vacantly . 
'My brother , says the young lady 'My husband , says my poor wife . 
Philip , fully occupied in recalling his story , had not observed him until now , nor Milly's anxiety that he should not proceed . 
Philip ! said Redlaw , laying his hand upon his arm , I am a stricken man , on whom the hand of Providence has fallen heavily , although deservedly . 
You speak to me , my friend , of what I cannot follow my memory is gone . 
Merciful power ! cried the old man . 
The boy came running in , and ran to Milly . 
Here's the man , he said , in the other room . 
What man does he mean ? asked Mr. William . 
Obedient to a sign from her , he and his old father softly withdrew . 
As they went out , unnoticed , Redlaw beckoned to the boy to come to him . 
I like the woman best , he answered , holding to her skirts . 
You are right , said Redlaw , with a faint smile . 
But you needn't fear to come to me . 
I am gentler than I was . 
As Redlaw laid his hand upon the shoulder of the child , looking on him with compassion and a fellow feeling , he put out his other hand to Milly . 
Your voice and music are the same to me . 
May I ask you something ? What you will . 
I remember , he said , with some hesitation . 
Do you understand it ? He smoothed the boy's hair looking at her fixedly the while , and shook his head . 
This person , said Milly , in her clear , soft voice , which her mild eyes , looking at him , made clearer and softer , I found soon afterwards . 
I went back to the house , and , with Heaven's help , traced him . 
I was not too soon . 
A very little and I should have been too late . 
He IS the father of Mr. Edmund , the young gentleman we saw just now . 
His real name is Longford . 
You recollect the name ? I recollect the name . 
And the man ? No , not the man . 
Did he ever wrong me ? Yes ! Ah ! Then it's hopeless hopeless . 
He shook his head , and softly beat upon the hand he held , as though mutely asking her commiseration . 
I did not go to Mr. Edmund last night , said Milly , You will listen to me just the same as if you did remember all ? To every syllable you say . 
Since I have known who this person is , I have not gone either but that is for another reason . 
Do you know me ? asked the Chemist . 
I should be glad , returned the other , and that is an unwonted word for me to use , if I could answer no . 
See how low he is sunk , how lost he is ! she whispered , stretching out her arm towards him , without looking from the Chemist's face . 
, should come to this ? I hope it would , he answered . 
I have no learning , and you have much , said Milly I am not used to think , and you are always thinking . 
May I tell you why it seems to me a good thing for us , to remember wrong that has been done us ? Yes . 
That we may forgive it . 
He cannot go to his abandoned home . 
He does not seek to go there . 
He knows that he could only carry shame and trouble to those he has so cruelly neglected and that the best reparation he can make them now , is to avoid them . 
He took her head between her hands , and kissed it , and said It shall be done . 
I trust to you to do it for me , now and secretly and to tell him that I would forgive him , if I were so happy as to know for what . 
You are so generous , he said , you ever were that you will try to banish your rising sense of retribution in the spectacle that is before you . 
I do not try to banish it from myself , Redlaw . 
If you can , believe me . 
I am too decayed a wretch to make professions I recollect my own career too well , to array any such before you . 
But from the day on which I made my first step downward , in dealing falsely by you , I have gone down with a certain , steady , doomed progression . 
Redlaw , keeping her close at his side , turned his face towards the speaker , and there was sorrow in it . 
Something like mournful recognition too . 
I might have been another man , my life might have been another life , if I had avoided that first fatal step . 
I don't know that it would have been . 
I claim nothing for the possibility . 
Your sister is at rest , and better than she could have been with me , if I had continued even what you thought me even what I once supposed myself to be . 
Redlaw made a hasty motion with his hand , as if he would have put that subject on one side . 
I speak , the other went on , like a man taken from the grave . 
I should have made my own grave , last night , had it not been for this blessed hand . 
Oh dear , he likes me too ! sobbed Milly , under her breath . 
That's another ! I could not have put myself in your way , last night , even for bread . 
He turned towards the door , and stopped a moment on his way forth . 
I hope my son may interest you , for his mother's sake . 
I hope he may deserve to do so . 
Unless my life should be preserved a long time , and I should know that I have not misused your aid , I shall never look upon him more . 
Going out , he raised his eyes to Redlaw for the first time . 
Redlaw , whose steadfast gaze was fixed upon him , dreamily held out his hand . 
He returned and touched it little more with both his own and bending down his head , went slowly out . 
In the few moments that elapsed , while Milly silently took him to the gate , the Chemist dropped into his chair , and covered his face with his hands . 
, she avoided disturbing him , or permitting him to be disturbed and kneeled down near the chair to put some warm clothing on the boy . 
That's exactly where it is . 
That's what I always say , father ! exclaimed her admiring husband . 
There's a motherly feeling in Mrs. William's breast that must and will have went ! Ay , ay , said the old man you're right . 
Our little dead child that you built such hopes upon , and that never breathed the breath of life it has made you quiet like , Milly . 
I am very happy in the recollection of it , William dear , she answered . 
I think of it every day . 
I was afraid you thought of it a good deal . 
Don't say , afraid it is a comfort to me it speaks to me in so many ways . 
The innocent thing that never lived on earth , is like an angel to me , William . 
You are like an angel to father and me , said Mr. William , softly . 
Redlaw raised his head , and looked towards her . 
All through life , it seems by me , she continued , to tell me something . 
For poor neglected children , my little child pleads as if it were alive , and had a voice I knew , with which to speak to me . 
When I hear of youth in suffering or shame , I think that my child might have come to that , perhaps , and that God took it from me in His mercy . 
Her quiet voice was quieter than ever , as she took her husband's arm , and laid her head against it . 
If I have been quiet since , I have been more happy , William , in a hundred ways . 
And it was that day done . 
Therefore the attempt shall not be made . 
There , present at the dinner , too , were the Tetterbys , including young Adolphus , who arrived in his prismatic comforter , in good time for the beef . 
All this , the Chemist , sitting with the student and his bride that was to be , Philip , and the rest , saw . 
Lord keep my Memory green . 
