It seems to be odd , at first sight , that there should be any such men as these but their name and number is legion . 
It is pretty much the same , I think , with all amusements . 
Of all such men , the hunting men are perhaps the most to be pitied . 
They are easily recognized by any one who cares to scrutinize the men around him in the hunting field . 
It is not to be supposed that all those who , in common parlance , do not ride , are to be included among the number of hunting men who don't like it . 
Many a man who sticks constantly to the roads and lines of gates , who , from principle , never looks at a fence , is much attached to hunting . 
Some of those who have borne great names as Nimrods in our hunting annals would as life have led a forlorn hope as put a horse at a flight of hurdles . 
But they , too , are known and though the nature of their delight is a mystery to straight going men , it is manifest enough , that they do like it . 
Their theory of hunting is at any rate plain . 
They have an acknowledged system , and know what they are doing . 
But the men who don't like it , have no system , and never know distinctly what is their own aim . 
During some portion of their career they commonly try to ride hard , and sometimes for a while they will succeed . 
In short spurts , while the cherry brandy prevails , they often have small successes but even with the assistance of a spur in the head they never like it . 
Briggs , I fancy , in his way did like it . 
Briggs was a full blooded , up apt , awkward , sanguine man , who was able to like anything , from gin and water upwards . 
But the man who hunts and doesn't like it , has his moments of gratification , and finds a source of pride in his penance . 
In the summer , hunting does much for him . 
He talks of them freely , and the keeper of the hunting stables is occasionally forced to write to him . 
In all this there is a delight which offers some compensation for his winter misery to our friend who hunts and doesn't like it . 
He finds it pleasant to talk of his horses especially to young women , with whom , perhaps , the ascertained fact of his winter employment does give him some credit . 
But the delight of these martyrs is at the highest in the presence of their tailors or , higher still , perhaps , in that of their bootmakers . 
The judicious conciliating tradesman knows that compensation should be given , and he helps to give it . 
But the visits to the bootmaker are better still . 
The tailor persists in telling his customer how his breeches should be made , and after what fashion they should be worn but the bootmaker will take his orders meekly . 
If not ruffled by paltry objections as to the fit of the foot , he will accede to any amount of instructions as to the legs and tops . 
And top boots , when multiplied in such a locality , when seen in a phalanx tell such pleasant lies on their owner's behalf . 
As the season draws nigh the delights become vague , and still more vague but , nevertheless , there are delights . 
He means to like it this year if he can . 
He has still some undefined notion that his period of pleasure will now come . 
And afterwards it is nice to find himself bright with mahogany tops , buff tinted breeches , and a pink coat . 
And he will ride this year ! He is fixed to that purpose . 
He will ride straight and , if possible , he will like it . 
But the Ethiop cannot change his skin , nor can any man add a cubit to his stature . 
The period of his penance has come upon him . 
He has to pay the price of those pleasant interviews with his tradesmen . 
He has to expiate the false boasts made to his female cousins . 
That row of boots cannot be made to shine in his chamber for nothing . 
The hounds have found , and the fox is away . 
Men are fastening on their flat topped hats and feeling themselves in their stirrups . 
Horses are hot for the run , and the moment for liking it has come , if only it were possible ! But at moments such as these something has to be done . 
The man who doesn't like it , let him dislike it ever so much , Cannot check his horse and simply ride back to the hunting stables . 
He understands that were he to do that , he must throw up his cap at once and resign . 
No he must make an effort . 
The time of his penance has come , and the penance must be borne . 
There is a spark of pluck about him , though unfortunately he has brought it to bear in a wrong direction . 
The blood still runs at his heart , and he resolves that he will ride , if only he could tell which way . 
Then the crowd in front has divided itself . 
Those to the right rush down a hill towards a brook with a ford . 
One or two , men whom he hates with an intensity of envy , have jumped the brook , and have settled to their work . 
Twenty or thirty others are hustling themselves through the water . 
The time for a judicious start on that side is already gone . 
But others , a crowd of others , are facing the big ploughed field immediately before them . 
That is the straightest riding , and with them he goes . 
At the first fence , as he is steadying himself , a butcher passes him roughly in the jump and nearly takes away the side of his top boot . 
He is knocked half out of his saddle , and in that condition scrambles through . 
When he has regained his equilibrium he sees the happy butcher going into the field beyond . 
He means to curse the butcher when he catches him , but the butcher is safe . 
A field and a half before him he still sees the tail hounds , and renews his effort . 
He has meant to like it to day , and he will . 
So he rides at the next fence boldly , where the butcher has left his mark , and does it pretty well , with a slight struggle . 
Mad with pain , he nearly gives it up , but the spark of pluck is still there , and with throbbing knee he perseveres . 
How he hates it ! It is all detestable now . 
He cannot hold his horse because of his gloves , and he cannot get them off . 
The sympathetic beast knows that his master is unhappy , and makes himself unhappy and troublesome in consequence . 
Our friend is still going , riding wildly , but still keeping a grain of caution for his fences . 
He has not been down yet , but has barely saved himself more than once . 
The ploughs are very deep , and his horse , though still boring at him , pants heavily . 
But the man who doesn't like it still sees a red coat before him , and perseveres in chasing the wearer of it . 
The solitary red coat becomes distant , and still more distant from him , but he goes on while he can yet keep the line in which that red coat has ridden . 
He must hurry himself , however , or he will be lost to humanity , and will be alone . 
He must hurry himself , but his horse now desires to hurry no more . 
When he arises the red coat is out of sight , and his own horse is half across the field before him . 
He may have been doing fairly well for what anybody knows , and , as he says nothing of himself , his disgrace is at any rate hidden . 
And no one does know how great is the misery endured by those who hunt regularly , and who do not like it . 
THE MAN WHO HUNTS AND DOES LIKE IT . 
With sore ears and bitter heart he hears the exaggerated boastings of his comrades , and almost swears that he will have no more of it . 
After all , it may be a question whether the man who hunts and doesn't like it does not have the best of it . 
When we consider what is endured by the hunting man the wonder is that any man should like it . 
If he kept a couple of horses for the purpose he was well mounted , and these horses were available for other uses . 
He rode out and home , jogging slowly along the roads , and was a martyr to no ambition . 
All that has been changed now . 
His groom comes to his bed chamber at seven o'clock , and tells him that it has frozen during the night . 
But we will suppose our friend to be located in some hunting district , and accordingly his groom visits him with tidings . 
Is it freezing now ? he asks from under the bedclothes . 
And even the man who does like it at such moments almost wishes that the answer should be plainly in the affirmative . 
Then swiftly again to the arms of Morpheus he might take himself , and ruffle his temper no further on that morning ! He desires , at any rate , a decisive answer . 
To be or not to be as regards that day's hurting is what he now wants to know . 
But that is exactly what the groom cannot tell him . 
It's just a thin crust of frost , sir , and the s'mometer is a standing at the pint . 
The thermometer is still standing at the point , but the man has tried the crust with his heel and found it to be very thin . 
The man who hunts and likes it scorns his ease , and resolves that he will at any rate persevere . 
He tumbles into his tub , and a little before nine comes out to his breakfast , still doubting sorely whether or no the day will do . 
There he , perhaps , meets one or two others like himself , and learns that the men who hunt and don't like it are still warm in their beds . 
On such mornings as these , and such mornings are very many , the men who hunt and do not like it certainly have the best of it . 
The man who hunts and does like it takes himself out to some kitchen garden or neighbouring paddock , and kicks at the ground himself . 
Certainly there is a crust , a very manifest crust . 
Though he puts up in the country , he has to go sixteen miles to the meet , and has no means of knowing whether or no the hounds will go out . 
Jorrocks always goes if there's a chance , says one fellow , speaking of the master . 
I don't know , says our friend he's a deal slower at it than he used to be . 
For my part , I wish Jorrocks would go he's getting too old . 
Then he bolts a mutton chop and a couple of eggs hurriedly , and submits himself to be carried off in the trap . 
Though he is half an hour late at the meet , no hounds have as yet come , and he begins to curse his luck . 
A non hunting day , a day that turns out to be no day for hunting purposes , begun in this way , is of all days the most melancholy . 
But on the present occasion we will not presume that our friend has fallen into so deep a bathos of misfortune . 
Ain't there ? says Tom you look at the north sides of the banks , and see how you'd like it . 
Some one makes an uncivil remark as to the north sides of the banks , and wants to know when old Jorrocks is coming . 
The squire 'll be here time enough , says Tom . 
And then there takes place that slow walking up and down of the hounds , which on such mornings always continues for half an hour . 
But at last Jorrocks is there , and the hounds trot off to cover . 
So dull has been everything on this morning that even that is something , and men begin to make themselves happier in the warmth of the movement . 
The hounds go into covert , and a period of excitement is commenced . 
Our friend who likes hunting remarks to his neighbour that the ground is rideable . 
His neighbour who doesn't like it quite so well says that he doesn't know . 
They remain standing close together on a forest ride for twenty minutes , but conversation doesn't go beyond that . 
The man who doesn't like it has lit a cigar , but the man who does like it never lights a cigar when hounds are drawing . 
And now the welcome music is heard , and a fox has been found . 
Mr. Jorrocks , gallopping along the ride with many oaths , implores those around him to hold their tongues and remain quiet . 
Why he should trouble himself to do this , as he knows that no one will obey his orders , it is difficult to surmise . 
It is now past two , and it would puzzle him to say what pleasure he has as yet had out of his day's amusement . 
But now , while the flask is yet at his mouth , he hears from some distant corner a sound that tells him that the fox is away . 
He ought to have persevered , and then he would have been near them . 
Do you want to get into my pocket , sir ? he says , angrily . 
The young admirer is snubbed , and , turning away , attempts to make a line for himself . 
But though he has been followed , he has great doubt as to his own course . 
Though he has admirers at his heels who credit him implicitly , his mind is racked by an agony of ignorance . 
He has got badly away , and the hounds are running well , and it is going to be a good thing and he will not see it . 
But he perseveres , choosing his points as he goes , till the tail of his followers becomes thinner and thinner . 
He comes out upon a road , and makes the pace as good as he can along the soft edge of it . 
He sniffs at the wind , knowing that the fox , going at such a pace as this , must run with it . 
He tells himself from outward signs where he is , and uses his dead knowledge to direct him . 
He scorns to ask a question as he passes countrymen in his course , but he would give five guineas to know exactly where the hounds are at that moment . 
He has been at it now forty minutes , and is in despair . 
His gallant nag rolls a little under him , and he knows that he has been going too fast . 
They've just run into him at Boxall Springs , Mr. Jones , says a farmer whom he passes on the road . 
Boxall Springs is only a quarter of a mile before him , but he wonders how the farmer has come to know all about it . 
But on reaching Boxall Springs he finds that the farmer was right , and that Tom is already breaking up the fox . 
Very good thing , Mr. Jones , says the squire in good humour . 
Our friend mutters something between his teeth and rides away in dudgeon from the triumphant master . 
On his road home he hears all about it from everybody . 
It wasn't in the open , says Jones , reduced in his anger to diminish as far as may be the triumph of his rival . 
Such is the fate , the too frequent fate of the man who hunts and does like it . 
THE LADY WHO RIDES TO HOUNDS . 
Among those who hunt there are two classes of hunting people who always like it , and these people are hunting parsons and hunting ladies . 
That it should be so is natural enough . 
In the life and habits of parsons and ladies there is much that is antagonistic to hunting , and they who suppress this antagonism do so because they are Nimrods at heart . 
Women who ride , as a rule , ride better than men . 
They , the women , have always been instructed whereas men have usually come to ride without any instruction . 
But they do not acquire the art of riding with exactness , as women do , and rarely have such hands as a woman has on a horse's mouth . 
Horses are valued simply for the services that they can render , and are only valued highly when they are known to be good servants . 
There are two classes of women who ride to hounds , or , rather , among many possible classifications , there are two to which I will now call attention . 
There is the lady who rides , and demands assistance and there is the lady who rides , and demands none . 
Indeed , you were like enough to be shaken off yourself , and to be rid of her after that fashion . 
But while you were with her you never escaped her at a single fence , and always felt that you were held to be trespassing against her in some manner . 
I shall never forget her voice , Pray , take care of that gate . 
It was the same at every gap . 
Might I ask you not to come too near me ? And yet it was impossible to escape her . 
Men could not ride wide of her , for she would not ride wide of them . 
Might I ask you not to come too near me ? If she could only have heard the remarks to which this constant little request of hers gave rise . 
She is now the mother of children , and her hunting days are gone , and probably she never makes that little request . 
Doubtless that look , made up partly of offence and partly of female dignity , no longer clouds her brow . 
But there is the hunting lady who rides hard and never asks for assistance . 
From this I dissent altogether . 
But in the hunting field , as in other scenes , let assistance never be demanded by a woman . 
Let her never ask any one to take care of that gate , or look as though she expected the profane crowd to keep aloof from her . 
The first of these accusations is , I think , simply made in ignorance . 
And this error has sprung from , or forms part of , another , which is wonderfully common among non hunting folk . 
As to that other charge , let it be at once admitted that the young lady who has become of the horse horsey has made a fearful , almost a fatal mistake . 
And so also has the young man who falls into the same error . 
I hardly know to which such phase of character may be most injurious . 
But not on that account are we to have no music masters and no footmen . 
It is hardly too much to say that hunting would be impossible if farmers did not hunt . 
To him , in accordance with his existing ideas , rural life under such circumstances would be impossible . 
A small pan of charcoal , and an honourable death bed , would give him relief after his first experience of such an invasion . 
Nor would the English farmer put up with the invasion , if the English farmer were not himself a hunting man . 
He puts up a wire fence round his domain , thus fortifying himself , as it were , in his citadel , and defies the world around him . 
It is wonderful how great is the annoyance which one such man may give , and how thoroughly he may destroy the comfort of the coverts in his neighbourhood . 
But , strong as such an one is in his fortress , there are still the means of fighting him . 
The farmers around him , if they be hunting men , make the place too hot to hold him . 
Their own wheat is exposed , and it is abominable to them that the wheat of another man should be more sacred than theirs . 
Farmers , as a rule , do not think very much of their wheat . 
When such riding is practicable , of course they like to see men take the headlands and furrows but their hearts are not broken by the tracks of horses across their wheat fields . 
I doubt , indeed , whether wheat is ever much injured by such usage . 
But let the thoughtful rider avoid the new sown barley and , above all things , let him give a wide berth to the new laid meadows of artificial grasses . 
They are never large , and may always be shunned . 
To them the poaching of numerous horses is absolute destruction . 
Farmers do see even this done , and live through it without open warfare but they should not be put to such trials of temper or pocket too often . 
His dress is nearly always the same . 
He wears a thick black coat , dark brown breeches , and top boots , very white in colour , or of a very dark mahogany , according to his taste . 
And there is , too , the ostentatious farmer , who rides in scarlet , signifying thereby that he subscribes his ten or fifteen guineas to the hunt fund . 
But here , in this paper , it is not of him I speak . 
He is a man who is so much less the farmer , in that he is the more an ordinary man of the ordinary world . 
But on certain hunting subjects he has his opinion , indeed , a very strong opinion , and if you can drive him from that , your eloquence must be very great . 
A master , however , who understands his business will generally consult a farmer and he will seldom , I think , or perhaps never , consult any one else . 
Always shake hands with your friend the farmer . 
His day's hunting is to him a solemn thing , and he gives to it all his serious thought . 
If any man can predicate anything of the run of a fox , it is the farmer . 
I had almost said that if any one knew anything of scent , it is the farmer but of scent I believe that not even the farmer knows anything . 
Such an one always sees a run to the end . 
But the farmer never kills his horse , and seldom rides him even to distress . 
He is not to be seen loosing his girths , or looking at the beast's flanks , or examining his legs to ascertain what mischances may have occurred . 
He takes it all easily , as men always take matters of business in which they are quite at home . 
To the farmer his day's hunting is very pleasant , and by habit is even very necessary but it comes in its turn like market day , and produces no extraordinary excitement . 
His friends would tell him of his wife and children and , indeed , would tell him truly , for his customers would fly from him . 
He is his own head groom , and has no scruple about bringing his horse out twice a week . 
He asks no livery stable keeper what his beast can do , but tries the powers of the animal himself , and keeps in his breast a correct record . 
Like his master , he is never showy . 
O fortunatus nimium agricola , who has one horse , and that a good one , in the middle of a hunting country ! THE MAN WHO HUNTS AND NEVER JUMPS . 
The British public who do not hunt believe too much in the jumping of those who do . 
And here , in England , history , that nursing mother of fiction , has given hunting men honours which they here never fairly earned . 
And there is much excellent good sense in the mode of riding adopted by such gentlemen . 
Some men ride for hunting , some for jumping , and some for exercise some , no doubt , for all three of these things . 
He must jump not at all . 
He must not jump a little , when some spurt or spirit may move him , or he will infallibly find himself in trouble . 
His experience was perfect , and he was always true to his resolution . 
Nothing ever tempted him to cross the smallest fence . 
He used to say of a neighbour of his , who was not so constant , Jones is an ass . 
There he is , and he can't get out . 
Jones doesn't like jumping , but he jumps a little , and I see him pounded every day . 
I never jump at all , and I'm always free to go where I like . 
The Duke was certainly right , and Jones was certainly wrong . 
To get into a field , and then to have no way of getting out of it , is very uncomfortable . 
He can then flatter himself that he is riding wide and making a line for himself . 
I am , therefore , very persistent in my advice to the man who purposes to hunt without jumping . 
Let him not jump at all . 
To jump , but only to jump a little , is fatal . 
Let him think of Jones . 
He becomes wonderfully skillful in surmising the line which a fox may probably take , and in keeping himself upon roads parallel to the ruck of the horsemen . 
He is studious of the wind , and knows to a point of the compass whence it is blowing . 
He remembers the drains on the different farms in which the hunted animal may possible take refuge , and has a memory even for rabbit holes . 
His knowledge of the country is correct to a marvel . 
Where parish is divided from parish and farm from farm , has been a study to him and he has learned the purpose and bearing of every lane . 
He is never thrown out , and knows the nearest way from every point to point . 
He is good natured for the moment , and patronizes the lost ones . 
He informs them that they are at last in the right way , and consoles them by assurances that they have lost nothing . 
The fox broke , you know , from the sharp corner of Granby wood , he says the only spot that the crowd had left for him . 
I saw him come out , standing on the bridge in the road . 
Then he ran up wind as far as Green's barn . 
Of course he did , says one of the unfortunates who thinks he remembers something of a barn in the early part of the performance . 
I was with the three or four first as far as that . 
Well , he turned there , and ran back very near the corner but he was headed by a sheep dog , luckily , and went to the left across the brook . 
Ah , that's where I lost them , says one unfortunate . 
I was with them miles beyond that , says another . 
Well then he went across by Ashby Grange , and tried the drain at the back of the farmyard , but Bootle had had it stopped . 
A fox got in there one day last March , and Bootle always stops it since that . 
So he had to go on , and he crossed the turnpike close by Ashby Church . 
I saw him cross , and the hounds were then full five minutes behind him . 
He went through Frolic Wood , but he didn't hang a minute , and right up the pastures to Morley Hall . 
That's where I was thrown out , says the unfortunate who had boasted before , and who is still disposed to boast a little . 
But our philosopher assures him that he has not in truth been near Morley Hall and when the unfortunate one makes an attempt to argue , puts him down thoroughly . 
All I can say is , you couldn't have been there and be here too at this moment . 
Morley Hall is a mile and a half to our right , and now they're coming round to the Linney . 
He'll go into the little wood there , and as there isn't as much as a nutshell open for him , they'll kill him there . 
It'll have been a tidy little thing , but not very fast . 
I've hardly been out of a trot yet , but we may as well move on now . 
They keep him , however , in sight , and are comforted for he is a man with a character , and knows what he is about . 
A man will not learn to ride after this fashion in a day , nor yet in a year . 
Of all fashions of hunting it requires , perhaps , the most patience , the keenest observation , the strongest memory , and the greatest efforts of intellect . 
But the power , when achieved , has its triumph it has its respect , and it has its admirers . 
Our friend , while he was guiding the unfortunates on the road , knew his position , and rode for a while as though he were a chief of men . 
He was the chief of men there . 
He was doing what he knew how to do , and was not failing . 
He had made no boasts which stern facts would afterwards disprove . 
No one at that moment knows the line they have all ridden as well as he knows it . 
Twelve miles of ground ! he says to himself , repeating the words of some valiant youngster if it's eight , I'll eat it . 
But the man who never jumps is not usually of a benevolent nature , and it is almost certain that he will make up a little story against the boaster . 
Such is the amusement of the man who rides and never jumps . 
Attached to every hunt there will be always one or two such men . 
But I think that men regard them as they do the chaplain on board a man of war , or as they would regard a herald on a field of battle . 
I feel some difficulty in dealing with the character I am now about to describe . 
But that argument might be used with much more truth against other men of business , against those to whose hunting the world takes no exception . 
Indeed , of all men , the ordinary parish clergyman , is , perhaps , the least liable to such censure . 
He lives in the country , and can hunt cheaper and with less sacrifice of time than other men . 
His professional occupation does not absorb all his hours , and he is too often an idle man , whether he hunt or whether he do not . 
Nor is it desirable that any man should work always and never play . 
The truth is , that a large and most respectable section of the world still regards hunting as wicked . 
It is supposed to be like the Cider Cellars or the Haymarket at twelve o'clock at night . 
Now I wish I could make the old ladies understand that hunting is not wicked . 
Such recreations are now unclerical in the highest degree , or if not in the highest , they are only one degree less so than hunting . 
But should a young curate show himself in the pit , he would be but a lost sheep of the house of Israel . 
Young men who think of the matter when the time for taking orders is coming near , do not feel themselves qualified to rival St . 
Paul in their lives and they who have not thought of it find themselves to be cruelly used when they are expected to make the attempt . 
But of all the amusements which a layman may follow and a clergyman may not , hunting is thought to be by much the worst . 
There is a savour of wickedness about it in the eyes of the old ladies which almost takes it out of their list of innocent amusements even for laymen . 
Hunting is done by a crowd but men who meet together to do wicked things meet in small parties . 
Men cannot gamble in the hunting field , and drinking there is more difficult than in almost any other scene of life . 
Anonyma , as we were told the other day , may show herself but if so , she rides alone . 
The young man must be a brazen sinner , too far gone for hunting to hurt him , who will ride with Anonyma in the field . 
The same may be said of hunting , the same and no more . 
But not the less is the general feeling very strong against the hunting parson and not the less will it remain so in spite of anything that I may say . 
Under these circumstances our friend the hunting parson usually rides as though he were more or less under a cloud . 
Unless he loved hunting much he would not be there . 
But the cloud is to be perceived and heard in the manner in which he speaks of himself and his own doings . 
He is never natural in his self talk as is any other man . 
There are three modes in which a hunting parson may dress himself for hunting , the variations having reference solely to the nether man . 
As regards the upper man there can never be a difference . 
The hunting breeches are put on first , and the black trowsers are drawn over them . 
But in whatever garb the hunting parson may ride , he almost invariably rides well , and always enjoys the sport . 
For myself I own that I like the hunting parson . 
He is never a hunting man unalloyed , unadulterated , and unmixed , a class of man which is perhaps of all classes the most tedious and heavy in hand . 
Let me pause for a moment here to beg young sportsmen not to fall into this terrible mistake . 
Such bores in the field are , alas , too common but the hunting parson never sins after that fashion . 
Though a keen sportsman , he is something else besides a sportsman , and for that reason , if for no other , is always a welcome addition to the crowd . 
But still I must confess at the end of this paper , as I hinted also at the beginning of it , that the hunting parson seems to have made a mistake . 
He is kicking against the pricks , and running counter to that section of the world which should be his section . 
He is making himself to stink in the nostrils of his bishop , and is becoming a stumbling block , and a rock of offence to his brethren . 
It is bootless for him to argue , as I have here argued , that his amusement is in itself innocent , and that some open air recreation is necessary to him . 
Grant him that the bishops and old ladies are wrong and that he is right in principle , and still he will not be justified . 
Whatever may be our walk in life , no man can walk well who does not walk with the esteem of his fellows . 
The master of hounds best known by modern description is the master of the Jorrocks type . 
Mr. Jorrocks knows his work , and is generally a most laborious man . 
Hunting is his profession , but it is one by which he can barely exist . 
He hopes to sell a horse or two during the season , and in this way adds something of the trade of a dealer to his other trade . 
But his office is thankless , ill paid , closely watched , and subject to all manner of indignities . 
Men suspect him , and the best of those who ride with him will hardly treat him as their equal . 
He is accepted as a disagreeable necessity , and is dismissed as soon as the country can do better for itself . 
It is of such a master as this , a master of the good old English sort , and not of an itinerant contractor for hunting , that I here intend to speak . 
It has been said that no one should become a member of Parliament unless he be a man of fortune . 
I hold such a rule to be much more true with reference to a master of hounds . 
For his own sake this should be so , and much more so for the sake of those over whom he has to preside . 
The foxes disappear , and when found almost instantly sink below ground . 
Distant coverts , which are ever the best because less frequently drawn , are deserted , for distance of course adds greatly to expense . 
Of such masters as I am now describing there are two sorts , of which , however , the one is going rapidly and , I think , happily out of fashion . 
There is the master of hounds who takes a subscription , and the master who takes none . 
Nor is such imperialism fitted for the present age . 
We never hear of Squire Western that he hunted the county , or that he went far afield to his meets . 
His tenants joined him , and by degrees men came to his hunt from greater distances around him . 
But with such extension of area there came , of course , necessity of extended expenditure , and so the fashion of subscription lists arose . 
There have remained some few great Nimrods who have chosen to be magnanimous and to pay for everything , despising the contributions of their followers . 
Such a one was the late Earl Fitzhardinge , and after such manner in , as I believe , the Berkeley hunt still conducted . 
But it need hardly be explained , that as hunting is now conducted in England , such a system is neither fair nor palatable . 
The ordinary master of subscription hounds is no doubt autocratic , but he is not autocratic with all the power of tyranny which belongs to the despot who rules without taxation . 
Such was the case with Lord Fitzhardinge , and I do not know that it was generally thought that he carried his power too far . 
And I think , too , that gentlemen feel that they ride with more pleasure when they themselves contribute to the cost of their own amusement . 
He shall hunt not less , let us say , than three days a week but though not less , it will be expected probably that he will hunt oftener . 
And he will be punctual to his time , giving quarter to none and asking none himself . 
He will draw fairly through the day , and indulge no caprices as to coverts . 
In the hunting field , as in all other communities , republics , and governments , the power of the purse is everything . 
As long as that be retained , the despotism of the master is tempered and his rule will be beneficent . 
If four days a week be required of him , two thousand a year will be little enough . 
But as a rule , I think masters are generally supposed to charge only for the advertised days , and to give the byedays out of their own pocket . 
Nor must it be thought that the money so subscribed will leave the master free of expense . 
As I have said before , he should be a rich man . 
Hunting men in England wish to pay for their own amusement but they desire that more shall be spent than they pay . 
And in this there is a rough justice , that roughness of justice which pervades our English institutions . 
For this he is expected to pay , and he does pay for it . 
A Lord Mayor is , I take it , much in the same category . 
For myself , if I found myself called upon to pay for one whistle or the other , I would sooner be a master of hounds than a Lord Mayor . 
The power is certainly more perfect , and the situation , I think , more splendid . 
The master of hounds has no aldermen , no common council , no liverymen . 
As long as he fairly performs his part of the compact , he is altogether without control . 
He is not unlike the captain of a man of war but , unlike the captain of a man of war , he carries no sailing orders . 
He is free to go where he lists , and is hardly expected to tell any one whither he goeth . 
He is flattered , too , if that be of any avail to him . 
Indeed , they are so sweet that almost every man will condescend to flatter the master of hounds . 
And ladies too , all the pretty girls delight to be spoken to by the master ! He needs no introduction , but is free to sip all the sweets that come . 
The master of hounds , even though he take no part in the actual work of hunting his own pack , has always his hands full of work . 
He is always learning , and always called upon to act on his knowledge suddenly . 
A Lord Mayor may sit at the Mansionhouse , I think , without knowing much of the law . 
He may do so without discovery of his ignorance . 
But the master of hounds who does not know his business is seen through at once . 
To say what that business is would take a paper longer than this , and the precept writer by no means considers himself equal to such a task . 
But it is multifarious , and demands a special intellect for itself . 
The master should have an eye like an eagle's , an ear like a thief's , and a heart like a dog's that can be either soft or ruthless as occasion may require . 
One word I will say as to the manners of a master of hounds , and then I will have done . 
He should be an urbane man , but not too urbane and he should certainly be capable of great austerity . 
It used to be said that no captain of a man of war could hold his own without swearing . 
I will not quite say the same of a master of hounds , or the old ladies who think hunting to be wicked will have a handle against me . 
But I will declare that if any man could be justified in swearing , it would be a master of hounds . 
The troubles of the captain are as nothing to his . 
The master who can make that influence suffice without swearing is indeed a great man . 
Now and then a little irony is tried . 
Nothing on earth , sir , while you carry on as you are doing just at present , said the stranger . 
The master accepted the compliment , and the stranger sinned no more . 
An English country gentleman with ten thousand a year must have been so selected . 
Members of Parliament with seats for counties have been exalted after the same unjust fashion . 
Popular masters of old established hunts sin against their fellows in the same way . 
And the lesson I would teach is one as to which even gods must differ , and no two men will ever hold exactly the same opinion . 
Indeed , no written lesson , no spoken words , no lectures , be they ever so often repeated , will teach any man to ride to hounds . 
Let it be understood that I am speaking of fox hunting , and let the young beginner always remember that in hunting the fox a pack of hounds is needed . 
The huntsman , with his servants , and all the scarlet coated horsemen in the field , can do nothing towards the end for which they are assembled without hounds . 
Let me beg my young friend not to be found among this odious crowd of marplots . 
With nine tenths of the men who flutter away after this ill fashion there is no design of their own in their so riding . 
They simply wish to get away , and in their impatience forget the little fact that a pack of hounds is necessary for the hunting of a fox . 
I have found myself compelled to begin with this preliminary caution , as all riding to hounds hangs on the fact in question . 
Men cannot ride to hounds if the hounds be not there . 
They may ride one after another , and that , indeed , suffices for many a keen sportsman but I am now addressing the youth who is ambitious of riding to hounds . 
In riding to hounds there is much to do before the straight work commences . 
Indeed , the straight work is , for the man , the easiest work , or the work , I should say , which may be done with the least previous knowledge . 
Straight riding , however , is the exception and not the rule . 
It comes sometimes , and is the cream of hunting when it does come but it does not come as often as the enthusiastic beginner will have taught himself to expect . 
But now we will go back to the covert , and into the covert if it be a large one . 
I will speak of three kinds of coverts , the gorse , the wood , and the forest . 
There are others , but none other so distinct as to require reference . 
As regards the gorse covert , which of all is the most delightful , you , my disciple , need only be careful to keep in the crowd when it is being drawn . 
You must understand that if the plantation which you see before you , and which is the fox's home and homestead , be surrounded , the owner of it will never leave it . 
A fox will run back from a child among a pack of hounds , so much more terrible is to him the human race even than the canine . 
The object of all men of course is that the fox shall go , and from a gorse covert of five acres he must go very quickly or die among the hounds . 
It will not be long before he starts if there be space left for him to creep out , as he will hope , unobserved . 
Unobserved he will not be , for the accustomed eye of some whip or servant will have seen him from a corner . 
But if stray horsemen roaming round the gorse give him no room for such hope , he will not go . 
All which is so plainly intelligible , that you , my friend , will not fail to understand why you are required to remain with the crowd . 
And with simple gorse coverts there is no strong temptation to move about . 
I presume that you intend to ride one horse throughout the day , and that you wish to see all the hunting that may come in your way . 
This being so , it will be your study to economize your animal's power , and to keep him fresh for the run when it comes . 
It is very possible to continue at this work , seeing the hounds hunt , with your ears rather than your eyes , till your nag has nearly done his day's work . 
There you will remain , nursing your horse , listening to chaff , and hoping . 
But even when the fox does go , your difficulties may be but beginning . 
It is possible he may have gone on your side of the wood but much more probable that he should have taken the other . 
He loves not that crowd that has been abusing him , and steals away from some silent distant corner . 
But some one with older eyes and more experienced ears has seen signs and heard sounds , and knows that the fox is away . 
Then , my friend , you have your place to win , and it may be that the distance shall be too great to allow of your winning it . 
Nothing but experience will guide you safely through these difficulties . 
In drawing forests or woodlands your course is much clearer . 
There is no question , then , of standing still and waiting with patience , tobacco , and chaff for the coming start . 
And in woodland hunting that which you thus see and hear is likely to be your amusement for the day . 
You , my pupil , shall have been patient , and your patience shall be rewarded by a good start . 
On the present occasion I will give you the exquisite delight of knowing that you are there , at the spot , as the hounds come out of the covert . 
Your success , or want of success , throughout the run will depend on the way in which you may now select to go over the three or four first fields . 
It is not difficult to keep with hounds if you can get well away with them , and be with them when they settle to their running . 
In a long and fast run your horse may , of course , fail you . 
That must depend on his power and his condition . 
But , presuming your horse to be able to go , keeping with hounds is not difficult when you are once free from the thick throng of the riders . 
And that thick throng soon makes itself thin . 
You have to choose your line of riding . 
Do not let your horse choose it for you instead of choosing it for yourself . 
He will probably make such attempts , and it is not at all improbable that you should let him have his way . 
Your horse will be as anxious to go as you are , but his anxiety will carry him after some other special horse on which he has fixed his eyes . 
The rider of that horse may not be the guide that you would select . 
But some human guide you must select . 
Not at first will you , not at first does any man , choose for himself with serene precision of confident judgment the line which he will take . 
You will be flurried , anxious , self diffident , conscious of your own ignorance , and desirous of a leader . 
Many of those men who are with you will have objects at heart very different from your object . 
Some will ride for certain points , thinking that they can foretell the run of the fox . 
They may be right but you , in your new ambition , are not solicitous to ride away to some other covert because the fox may , perchance , be going there . 
Some are thinking of the roads . 
Others are remembering that brook which is before them , and riding wide for a ford . 
With none such , as I presume , do you wish to place yourself . 
If you can even do this as a beginner , you will not do badly . 
But , whenever it be possible , let the hounds themselves be your mark , and endeavour to remember that the leading hounds are those which should guide you . 
A single hound who turns when he is heading the pack should teach you to turn also . 
Of all the hounds you see there in the open , probably not one third are hunting . 
The others are doing as you do , following where their guides lead them . 
It is for you to follow the real guide , and not the followers , if only you can keep the real guide in view . 
To keep the whole pack in view and to ride among them is easy enough when the scent is slack and the pace is slow . 
At such times let me counsel you to retire somewhat from the crowd , giving place to those eager men who are breaking the huntsman's heart . 
When the hounds have come nearer to their fox , and the pace is again good , then they will retire and make room for you . 
