You don't mean to say , Tom , that you're going to have a try for a government prize for a submarine , after all . 
No , not a submarine prize , dad , and the youth laughed . 
Though our Advance would take the prize away from almost any other under water boat , I imagine . 
No , it's another prize I'm thinking about . 
What do you mean ? Well , I see by this paper that the Touring Club of America has offered three thousand dollars for the speediest electric car . 
But I'm going to have a try for it , dad , and , besides winning the prize , I think I'll take Andy Foger down a peg . 
What's Andy been doing now ? Oh , nothing more than usual . 
I'll show him that it isn't , for I'm going to win this prize with the speediest car on the road . 
But , Tom , you haven't any automobile , you know , and Mr. Swift looked anxiously at his son , who was smiling confidently . 
You can't be going to make your motor cycle into an auto are you ? No , dad . 
Then how are you going to take part in the prize contest ? Besides , electric cars , as far as I know , aren't specially speedy . 
I know it , and one reason why this club has arranged the contest is to improve the quality of electric automobiles . 
I'm going to build an electric runabout , dad . 
Well , I haven't yet , but I'm going to have one . 
I've been working on Oh , ho ! exclaimed the aged inventor with a laugh . 
So that's what you've been tinkering over these last few weeks , eh , Tom ? I suspected it was some new invention , but I didn't suppose it was that . 
Well , how are you coming on with it ? Pretty good , I think . 
I've got a new idea for a battery , and I made an experimental one . 
I gave it some pretty severe tests , and it worked fine . 
But you haven't tried it out in a car yet , over rough roads , and under severe conditions have you ? No , I haven't had a chance . 
Hum , remarked Mr. Swift musingly . 
I don't take much stock in electric autos , Tom . 
Gasolene seems to be the best , or perhaps steam , generated by gasolene . 
I'm afraid you'll be disappointed . 
All the electric runabouts I ever saw , while they were very nice cars , didn't seem able to go so very fast , or very far . 
That's true , but it's because they didn't have the right kind of a battery . 
You know an electric locomotive can make pretty good speed , Dad . 
Over a hundred miles an hour in tests . 
Yes , but they don't run by storage batteries . 
They have a third rail , and powerful motors , and Mr. Swift looked quizzically at his son . 
Of course , Dad , there is a good deal of theory in what I'm thinking of , the lad admitted . 
But it does seem to me that if you put the right kind of a battery into an automobile , it could scoot along pretty lively . 
Look what speed a trolley car can make . 
Yes , Tom , but there again they get their power from an overhead wire . 
There's a new storage battery been invented by a New Jersey man , which does as well as the third rail or the overhead wire . 
It was after reading about his battery that I thought of a plan for mine . 
It isn't anything like his perhaps not as good in some ways , but , for what I want , it is better in some respects , I think . 
For one thing it can be recharged very quickly . 
Now Tom , look here , said Mr. Swift earnestly , laying aside his papers , and coming over to where his son sat . 
You know I never interfere with your inventions . 
In fact , the more you think of the better I like it . 
The airship you helped build certainly did all that could be desired , and That reminds me . 
Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon are out in it now , interrupted Tom . 
They ought to be back soon . 
Yes , Dad , the airship Red Cloud certainly scooted along . 
And the submarine , too , continued the aged inventor . 
Your ideas regarding that were of service to me , and helped in our task of recovering the treasure , but I'm afraid you're going to be disappointed in the storage battery . 
You may get it to work , but I don't believe you can make it powerful enough to attain any great speed . 
Why don't you confine yourself to making a battery for stationary work ? Because , Dad , I believe I can build a speedy car , and I'm going to try it . 
Besides I want to race Andy Foger , and beat him , even if I don't win the prize . 
I'm going to build that car , and it will make fast time . 
Well , go ahead , Tom , responded his father , after a pause . 
Of course you can use the shops here as much as you want , and Mr. Sharp , Mr. Jackson , and I will help you all we can . 
Only don't be disappointed , that's all . 
Suppose you come out to my shop and I'll show you a sample battery I've been testing for the last week . 
I have it geared to a small motor , and it's been running steadily for some time . 
I want to see what sort of a record it's made . 
Father and son crossed the yard , and entered a shop which the lad considered exclusively his own . 
There he had made many machines , and pieces of apparatus , and had invented a number of articles which had been patented , and yielded him considerable of an income . 
There's the battery , Dad , he said , pointing to a complicated mechanism in one corner What's that buzzing noise ? asked Mr. Swift . 
That's the little motor I run from the new cells . 
Look here , and Tom switched on an electric light above the experimental battery , from which he hoped so much . 
Tom looked at a registering gauge connected with it . 
That's pretty good , remarked the young inventor . 
What is it , Tom ? and his father peered about the shop . 
Why this motor has run an equivalent of two hundred miles on one charging of the battery ! That's much better than I expected . 
I thought if I got a hundred out of it I'd be doing well . 
I'll Tom's enthusiastic remarks were suddenly interrupted by a low , rumbling sound . 
Thunder ! exclaimed Mr. Swift . 
At the same time there came cries of distress , and the crash was repeated . 
Come on , Dad ! Something has happened ! yelled Tom , dashing from the shop , followed by his parent . 
They found themselves in the midst of a rain storm , as they raced toward the house , on the roof of which the smashing noise was again heard . 
Mr. Swift was also an inventor of note . 
In my initial volume of this series , Tom became possessed of a motor cycle in a peculiar way . 
It was sold to him by a Mr. Wakefield Damon , a wealthy gentleman who was unfortunate in riding it . 
On his speedy machine , which Tom improved by several inventions , he had a number of adventures . 
Tom was taking it to a lawyer , when he was waylaid , and chloroformed . 
But the men got away . 
While he was taking his father out on a cruise for Mr Swift's health , the Happy Harry Gang made a successful attempt to steal some valuable inventions from the Swift house . 
Tom started to trace them , and incidentally he raced and beat Andy Foger , a rich bully . 
The balloonist was Mr. John Sharp and he was rescued by Tom in a thrilling fashion . 
Tom's association with Miss Nestor soon ripened into something deeper than mere friendship . 
It developed that Mr Sharp , whom Tom had saved from the burning balloon , was an aeronaut of note , and had once planned to build an airship . 
After his recovery from his thrilling experience , he mentioned the matter to Mr. Swift and his son , with whom he took up his residence . 
This fitted right in with Tom's ideas , and soon father , son and the balloonist were constructing the Red Cloud , as they named their airship . 
It was finally completed , as related in Tom Swift and His Airship , made a successful trial trip , and won a prize . 
It was planned to make a longer journey , and Tom , Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon agreed to go together . 
The night before Tom and his friends started off in their airship , the Shopton Bank vault was blown open and seventy five thousand dollars was taken . 
They were charged with the robbery , and with having sailed away with the booty . 
It appeared that Andy Foger said he had seen Tom hanging around the bank the night of the robbery , with a bag of burglar tools in his possession . 
Search was immediately begun for the airship , the occupants of which were , meanwhile , speeding on . 
Tom and his two friends had trouble . 
The fact that they were fired upon caused Tom and the two aeronauts to descend to make an investigation , and for the first time they learned of the bank theft . 
How they got track of the real robbers , took the sheriff with them in the airship , and raided the gang will be found set down at length in the book . 
Also how Tom administered well deserved thrashing to Andy Foger . 
In the fourth volume of the series , called Tom Swift and his Submarine , you may read how successful Mr. Swift was . 
They sailed beneath the seas for many miles , and were in great peril at times . 
One reason for this was that a rival firm of submarine builders got wind of the treasure , and tried to get ahead of the Swifts in recovering it . 
On their return to civilization with the gold , Mr. Swift , Tom , and their friends deposited the money in the Shopton Bank , where Ned Newton worked . 
Ned was a bright lad , but had not been advanced as rapidly as he deserved , and Tom knew this . 
That was in the fall of the year , and all that winter the young inventor had been busy on many things , not the least of which was his storage battery . 
It was now spring , and seeing the item in the paper , about the touring club prize for an electric auto , had given him a new idea . 
There's something up there , Tom , called his father , as he splashed on through the rain . 
That's right , added his son . 
And somebody , too , to judge by the fuss they're making . 
Maybe the house has been struck by lightning ! suggested the aged inventor . 
No , the storm isn't severe enough for that and , besides , if the house had been struck you'd hear Mrs. Baggert yelling , Dad . 
Bless my deflection rudder ! suddenly cried a voice from the flat roof of the Swift house . 
Hello ! I say , is anyone down there ? Yes , we are , answered Tom . 
Is that you , Mr. Damon ? Bless my collar button ! It certainly is . 
Where's Mr. Sharp ? I don't hear him . 
Oh , I'm here all right , answered the balloonist . 
I'm trying to get the airship clear of the chimney . 
Mr. Damon Yes , I steered wrong ! interrupted the odd man . 
Are either of you hurt ? asked Mr. Swift anxiously . 
No , not at all , replied Mr. Sharp . 
We were moving slowly , ready for a landing . 
Is the airship damaged ? inquired Tom . 
Not much , I guess , was the answer of the aeronaut . 
I've stopped the engine , and I don't like to start it again until I can see what shape we're in . 
I'll come up , with Mr. Jackson , called Tom , and he hastily summoned Garret Jackson , an engineer , who had been in the service of Mr. Swift for many years . 
Together they proceeded to the roof by a stairway that led to a scuttle . 
Is anyone killed ? asked Mrs. Baggert , as Tom hurried up the stairs . 
Don't tell me there is , Tom ! Well , I don't have to tell you , for no one is , replied the young inventor with a laugh . 
The airship tried to collide with the chimney , that's all . 
He was soon on the large , flat roof of the dwelling , and , with the aid of lanterns he , the engineer , and Mr. Sharp made a hasty examination . 
Anything wrong ? inquired Mr. Damon , looking out from the cabin of the Red Cloud where he had taken refuge after the crash , and to get out of the wet . 
Not much , answered Tom . 
One of the forward planes is smashed , but we can rise by means of the gas , and float down . 
Is all clear , Mr. Sharp ? All clear , replied the balloonist , for the airship had now been wheeled back from the entanglement with the chimney . 
Then here we go ! cried Tom , as he and the aeronaut entered the craft , while Mr. Jackson descended through the scuttle . 
There came a fiercer burst to the storm , and , amid a series of dazzling lightning flashes and the muttering of thunder , the airship rose from the roof . 
Tom switched on the search light , and , starting the big propellers , guided the craft skillfully toward the big shed where it was housed when not in use . 
With the grace of a bird it turned about in the air , and settled to the ground . 
It was the work of but a few minutes to run it into the shed . 
Then they all started for the house . 
Bless my umbrella ! How it rains ! cried Mr. Damon , as he splashed on through numerous puddles . 
We got back just in time , Mr. Sharp . 
Where did you go ? asked the lad . 
Why we took a flight of about fifty miles and stopped at my house in Waterfield for supper . 
Were you anxious about us ? A little when it began to storm , replied Tom . 
Anything new since we left ? asked Mr. Sharp , for it was the custom of himself , or some of his friends , to take little trips in the airship . 
They thought no more of it than many do of going for a short spin in an automobile . 
Yes , there is something new , said Mr. Swift , as the party , all drenched now , reached the broad veranda . 
Bless my gaiters ! cried Mr. Damon . 
No , it isn't that , replied Mr. Swift . 
The truth is that Tom thinks he has invented a storage battery that will revolutionize matters . 
He's going to build an electric automobile , he says . 
I didn't know you had any ambitions in that line . 
Tell us more about the battery . 
What system do you use lead plates and sulphuric acid ? Oh , that's out of date long ago , declared the lad . 
Well , I don't know much about electricity , admitted the aeronaut . 
I'll take my chances in an airship or a balloon , but when it comes to electricity I'm down and out . 
So am I , admitted Mr. Damon . 
Bless my gizzard , it's all I can do to put a new spark plug in my automobile . 
Where is your new battery , Tom ? Out in my shop , running yet if it hasn't been frightened by the airship smash , replied the lad , somewhat proudly . 
It's an oxide of nickel battery , with steel and oxide of iron negative electrodes . 
What solution do you use , Tom ? asked Mr. Swift . 
I didn't get that far in questioning you before the crash came , he added . 
I think that will make it stronger . 
Bless my watch chain ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
It's all Greek to me . 
Suppose you let us see it , Tom ? I like to see wheels go 'round , but I'm not much of a hand for chemical terms . 
If you're sure you're not hurt by the airship smash , I will , declared the lad . 
Oh , we're not hurt a bit , insisted Mr. Sharp . 
As I said we were moving slow , for I knew it was about time to land . 
Mr. Damon was steering Yes I thought I'd try my hand at it , as it seemed so easy , interrupted the eccentric man . 
But never again not for mine ! I couldn't see the house , and , before I knew it we were right over the roof . 
Then the chimney seemed to stick itself up suddenly in front of us , and well , you know the rest . 
I'm willing to pay for any damage I caused . 
Oh , not at all ! replied Tom . 
It's easy enough to put on a new plane , or , for that matter , we can operate the Red Cloud without it . 
But come on , I'll show you my sample battery . 
Here , take umbrellas ! Mrs. Baggert called after them as they started toward the shop , for it was still raining . 
We don't mind getting wet , replied the young inventor . 
It's in the interests of science . 
You don't mind a wetting , but I mind you coming in and dripping water all over the carpets ! retorted the housekeeper . 
That's the reason I want you to take umbrellas this trip , insisted Mrs. Baggert . 
They complied , and were soon in the shop , where Tom explained his battery . 
The small motor was still running and had , as the lad had said , gone the equivalent of over two hundred miles . 
If a small battery does as well as that , what will a larger one do ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Much better , I hope , replied the youth . 
But Dad doesn't seem to have much faith in them . 
Well , admitted Mr. Swift , I must say I am skeptical . 
Still , I acknowledge Tom has done some pretty good work along electrical lines . 
He helped me with the positive and negative plates on the submarine , and , maybe well , we'll wait and see , he concluded . 
If you build a car I hope you give me a ride in it , said Mr. Damon . 
I've ridden fast in the air , and swiftly on top of , and under , the water . 
Now I'd like to ride rapidly on top of the earth . 
The gasolene auto doesn't go very fast . 
I'll give you a ride that will make your hair stand up ! prophesied Tom , and the time was to come when he would make good that prediction . 
The little party in the machine shop talked at some length about Tom's battery . 
He showed them how it was constructed , and gave them some of his ideas regarding the new type of auto he planned to build . 
Well , remarked Mr. Swift at length , if you want to keep your brain fresh , Tom , you must get to bed earlier than this . 
And I want to get up early ! exclaimed the lad . 
I'm going to start to build a larger battery to morrow . 
And I'm going to repair the airship , added Mr. Sharp . 
Bless my night cap , I promised my wife I'd be home early to night , too ! suddenly exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
I don't fancy making the trip back to Waterfield in my auto , though . 
Something will be sure to happen . 
I'll blow out a tire , or a spark plug will get sooty on me and It's raining harder than ever , interrupted Tom . 
Better stay here to night . 
After the meal he hurried back to the shop , but it was not long before he came out , wheeling his motor cycle . 
Where are you going , Tom ? asked Mrs. Baggert . 
Oh , I've got to go to Mansburg to get some steel tubes for my new battery , he replied . 
I thought I had some large enough , but I haven't . 
Mansburg was a good sized town , near Shopton . 
Then I wish you'd bring me a bottle of stove polish , requested the housekeeper . 
I'm out of it , and the stove is as red as a cow . 
All right , agreed the lad , as he leaped into the saddle and pedaled off down the road . 
A moment later he had turned on the power , and was speeding along the highway , which was in good condition on account of the shower of the night before . 
As he was speeding along on a level road , he heard , coming behind him , an automobile . 
What's the matter with those fellows ! inquired Tom of himself . 
And it needed only another glance to disclose the reason for the shrill sound of the siren . 
Andy Foger ! exclaimed Tom . 
And Sam and Pete are with him . 
A little later Andy's car was beside Tom . 
Why don't you get out of the way , demanded Sam , who could usually be depended on to aid Andy in all his mean tricks . 
Because I'm entitled to half the road , retorted our hero . 
Humph ! A slow moving machine like yours hasn't any right on the road , sneered Andy , who had slowed down his car somewhat . 
I haven't , eh ? demanded Tom . 
He did not relish another chastisement , but his mean spirit could not brook interference . 
Don't you want a race ? he inquired of Tom , in a sneering tone . 
Maybe you'll think differently some day . 
Aw , he's afraid to race come on , suggested Pete . 
Don't bother with him , Andy . 
Tom was just as much pleased to be left alone , but he did not want Andy Foger to think that he could have matters all his own way . 
Tom's motor cycle , since he had made some adjustments to it , was very swift . 
In fact there were few autos that could beat it . 
He had never tried it against Andy's new car , and he was anxious to do so . 
I wonder if I would stand any chance , racing him ? thought the young inventor , as he saw the car slowly pulling away from him . 
I think I'll wait until he gets some distance ahead , and then I'll see how near I can come to him . 
If I get anywhere near him I'm pretty sure I can pass him . 
When Andy and his cronies looked back , Tom did not appear to be doing anything save moving along at moderate speed on his machine . 
You don't dare race ! Pete Bailey shouted to him . 
Wait , was what Tom whispered to himself . 
Andy's car was now some distance ahead . 
The young inventor waited a little longer , and then turned more power into his machine . 
It leaped forward and began to eat up the road , as Tom expressed it . 
He had seen Andy throw in the third gear , but knew that there was a fourth speed on the bully's car . 
I don't know whether I can beat him on that or not , thought the lad dubiously . 
If I try , and fail , they'll laugh at me . 
But I don't think I'm going to fail . 
Faster and faster he rode . 
He was rapidly overhauling Andy's car now , and , as they heard him approach , the three cronies turned around . 
He's going to race you , after all , Andy ! cried Sam . 
You mean he's going to try , sneered Andy . 
I'll give him all the racing he wants ! In another few seconds Tom was beside the auto , and would have passed it , only Andy opened his throttle a little more . 
For a moment the auto jumped ahead , and then , as our hero turned on still more power , he easily held his own . 
Aw , you can never beat us ! yelled Pete . 
Of course not ! added Sam . 
I'll leave him behind in a second , prophesied Andy . 
Wait until I throw in the other gear , he added to his cronies in a low voice . 
He thinks he's going to beat me . 
I'll let him think so , and then I'll spurt ahead . 
The two machines were now racing along side by side . 
Andy's car was going the limit on third gear , but he still had the fourth gear in reserve . 
Tom , too , still had a little margin of speed . 
Suddenly Andy reached forward and yanked on a lever . 
There was a grinding of cogs as the fourth gear slipped into place , for Andy did not handle his car skillfully . 
The effect , however , was at once apparent . 
Now where are you , Tom Swift ? cried Sam . 
He merely shifted a lever , and got a better spark . 
He whizzed past the auto , but , as the latter gathered speed , it crept up to him , and , once more was on even terms . 
The two were now racing furiously , and Andy , with a savage look , tried to get more speed out of his car . 
In spite of all the bully did , Tom was gradually forging ahead . 
A little hill was now in view . 
Here's where I make him take my dust ! cried Andy , but , to his surprise Tom still kept ahead . 
The auto began to lose ground , for it was not made to take hills on high gear . 
Change to third gear quick ! cried Sam . 
Andy tried to do it . 
There was a hesitancy on the part of his car . 
Tom , looking back , slowed up a trifle . 
He could afford to , as Andy was being beaten . 
Go on ! Go on ! begged Pete . 
You'll have to keep on fourth gear to beat him , Andy . 
That's what ! murmured the bully . 
Once more he shifted the gears . 
There was a grinding , smashing sound , and the car lost speed . 
Then it slowed up still more , and finally stopped . 
Then it began to back down hill . 
I've stripped those blamed gears ! exclaimed Andy ruefully . 
Can't you beat him ? asked Pete . 
I could have , easily , if my gears hadn't broken , declared the bully , but , as a matter of fact , he could not have done so . 
I oughtn't to have changed , going up hill , he added , as he jammed on the brakes , to stop the car from sliding down the slope . 
I thought you were so anxious to race , he said , exultantly , as well he might . 
I don't want to try a contest down hill , though , Andy , and he laughed at the red haired lad , who was furious . 
Aw , go on ! was all the retort the squint eyed one could think of to make . 
I am going on , replied our hero . 
Just to show you that I can go down hill , watch me . 
He turned his motor cycle , and approached Andy's stalled car , for Tom was some distance in advance of it , up the slope by this time . 
As he approached the auto , containing the three disconcerted cronies , something bounded out of Tom's pocket . 
It was the bottle of stove blacking he had purchased for Mrs. Baggert . 
The bottle fell in the soft dirt in front of his forward wheel , and a curious thing happened . 
Perhaps you have seen a bicycle or auto tire strike a stone at an angle , and throw it into the air with great force . 
That was what happened to the bottle . 
It struck the brass frame of the wind shield with a crash . 
The bottle broke , and in an instant the black liquid was spattered all over Andy , Sam and Pete . 
It could not have been done more effectively if Tom had thrown it by hand . 
All over their clothes , their hands and faces , and the front of the car went the dreary black . 
Tom looked on , hardly able to believe what he saw . 
Wow ! Wup ! Ug ! Blug ! Mug ! spluttered Sam , who had some of the stuff in his mouth . 
Oh ! Oh ! yelled Pete . 
You did that on purpose , Tom Swift ! shouted Andy , wiping some of the blacking from his left eye . 
No , mine is , insisted Pete , whose white shirt was of the hue of a stove pipe . 
Andy wiped some of the black stuff from his nose , whence it was dropping on the steering wheel . 
You just wait ! the bully called to Tom . 
CHAPTER IV TALK OF A NEW BANK The three cronies were in a sorrowful plight . 
The black fluid dripped from them , and formed little puddles in the car . 
Andy had used his handkerchief to wipe some of the stuff from his face , but the linen was soon useless , for it quickly absorbed the blacking . 
There's a little brook over here , volunteered Tom . 
You might wash in that . 
The stuff comes off easily . 
It isn't like ink , and he had to laugh , as he thought of the happening . 
Here ! You quit that ! ordered Andy . 
You've gone too far , Tom Swift ! Didn't I tell you it was an accident ? inquired the young inventor . 
It wasn't ! cried Sam . 
You threw the bottle at us ! I saw you ! It slipped from my pocket , declared the youth , and he described how the accident occurred . 
I'll help you clean your car , Andy , he added . 
I don't want your help ! If you come near me I'll I'll punch your nose ! cried Andy , now almost beside himself with rage . 
All right , if you don't want my help I don't care , answered Tom , glad enough not to have to soil his hands and clothes . 
As Tom turned around for a final glimpse , Andy shook his fist at him , and called out something . 
I guess Andy'll have it in for me , mused Tom . 
Well , I can't help it . 
That night Andy Foger told his father what had happened , for Mr. Foger inquired the reason for the black stains on his son's face and hands . 
But Andy did not give the true version . 
He said Tom had purposely thrown the bottle of blacking at him . 
So that's the kind of a lad Tom Swift is , eh ? remarked Andy's father . 
Well , Andy , I think you will soon have a chance to get even with him . 
I'll ruin their bank for them , that's what I'll do . 
Ruin their bank , pop ? How ? You wait and see . 
The Swift crowd will get off their high horse soon , or I'm mistaken . 
My plans are nearly completed , but I can't tell you about them . 
I'll ruin Mr. Swift , though , that's what I'll do , and Mr. Foger shook his head determinedly . 
Tom was soon at his home , and Mrs. Baggert , hearing the noise of his machine , as it entered the front yard , came to the side door . 
Where's my blacking ? she asked , as our hero dismounted and untied the bundle of steel tubes he had purchased . 
I I used it , he answered , laughing . 
The lad was soon busy in his machine shop , making several larger cells for the new storage battery . 
He wanted to give it a more severe test . 
He worked for several days on this , and when he had one unit of cells complete , he attached the motor for an efficiency trial . 
We'll see how many miles that will make , he remarked to his father . 
Have you thought anything of the type of car you are going to build ? asked the aged inventor of his son . 
It will be almost of the regulation style , but with two removable seats at the rear , with curtains for protection , and a place in front for two persons . 
This can also be protected with curtains when desired . 
But what about the motors and the battery ? They will be located under the middle of the car . 
A smaller set will also be placed forward , and there will be ample room for carrying tools and such things . 
What will you do when your battery runs out ? Recharge it . 
Suppose you're not near a charging station ? Well , Dad , of course those are some of the details I've got to work out . 
I'm planning a register gauge now , that will give warning about fifty miles before the battery is run down . 
That will leave me a margin to work on . 
And I'm going to have it fixed so I can take current from any trolley line , as well as from a regular charging station . 
My battery will be capable of being recharged very quickly , or , in case of need , I can take out the old cells and put in new ones . 
That's a very good idea . 
Well , I hope you succeed . 
A few evenings after this , when Tom was busy in his machine shop , he heard some one enter . 
Who's there ? he called sharply , for , more than once unscrupulous men had endeavored to sneak into the Swift shops to steal ideas of inventions if not the actual apparatus itself . 
It's me Ned Newton , was the cheerful reply . 
Oh , hello , Ned ! I was wondering what had become of you , responded Tom . 
Where have you been lately ? Oh , working overtime . 
What's the occasion ? We're trying out a new system to increase the bank business . 
What's the matter ? Aren't you folks getting business enough , after the big deposits we made of the bullion from the wreck ? Oh , it's not that . 
A new bank , eh ? Who's going to start it ? Andy Foger's father , I hear . 
You know he was a director in our bank , but he got out last week . 
What for ? Well , he had some difficulty with Mr. Pendergast , the president . 
I fancy you had something to do with it , too . 
I ? Tom was plainly surprised . 
Yes , you know you and Mr. Damon and Mr. Sharp captured the bank robbers , and got back most of the money . 
Mr. Foger expected his son would collect the money , and when Andy got left , it made him sore . 
He's had a grudge against Mr. Pendergast , and all the other bank officials ever since , and now he's going to start a rival bank . 
So that's why I said it was partly due to you . 
I thought at first you meant that it was on account of something that happened the other day . 
What was that ? Andy , Sam and Pete got the contents of a bottle of stove blacking , and Tom related the occurrence , at which Ned laughed heartily . 
I wouldn't be surprised though , added Ned , to learn that Mr. Foger started the new bank more for revenge than anything else . 
So that's the reason you've been working late , eh ? went on Tom . 
Do you think a new bank will hurt the one you're with ? Well , it might , admitted Ned . 
It's bound to make a change , anyhow , and now that I have a good position I don't want to lose it . 
I take more of an interest in the institution now that I'm assistant cashier , than I did when I was a clerk . 
So , naturally , I'm a little worried . 
Say , don't let it worry you , begged Tom , earnestly . 
Why not ? Because I know my father and Mr. Damon will stick to the old bank . 
They won't have anything to do with the one Andy Foger's father starts . 
Well , that will help some , declared Ned . 
They are both heavy depositors , and if they stick to the old bank we can stand it even if some of our smaller customers desert us . 
That's the way to talk , went on the young inventor . 
Let Foger start his bank . 
What are you making now ? asked Ned , a little later , looking with interest at the machinery over which Tom was bending , and to which he was making adjustments . 
I'll run you over in Mr. Damon's car , proposed Tom . 
He left it here the other day , while he and his wife went off on a trip , and he said I could use it whenever I wanted to . 
The two lads came from Tom's particular workshop . 
As the young inventor closed the door he started suddenly , as he snapped shut the lock . 
What's the matter ? asked Ned quickly . 
I thought I heard a noise , replied Tom . 
There was a slight rustling in some bushes near the shop . 
It's a dog or a cat , declared Ned . 
Tom took several cautious steps forward . 
Then he gave a spring , and made a grab for some one or something . 
Here ! You let me be ! yelled a protesting voice . 
I will when I find out what you mean by sneaking around here , retorted Tom , as he came back toward Ned , dragging with him a lad . 
It wasn't a dog or a cat , Ned , spoke the young inventor . 
It's Sam Snedecker , and so it proved . 
You let me alone ! demanded Andy Foger's crony . 
I ain't done nothin' to you , he whined . 
Here , Ned , you hold him a minute , while I make an investigation , called Tom , handing his prisoner over to his chum . 
Maybe Pete or Andy are around . 
I came alone , said Sam quickly , but Tom , not heeding , opened the shop , and , after turning on the electric lights , procured a lantern . 
He began a search of the shrubbery around the shop , while Ned held to the struggling Sam . 
CHAPTER V A MIDNIGHT ENCOUNTER The moment Tom disappeared behind his machine shop , Sam Snedecker began a desperate struggle to escape from Ned Newton . 
Now Ned was a muscular lad , but his work in the bank was confining , and he did not have the chance to get out doors and exercise , as Sam had . 
Consequently Ned had his hands full in holding to the squirming crony of Andy Foger . 
You let me go ! demanded Sam , as he tried to twist loose . 
Not if I know it ! panted Ned . 
Sam gave a sudden twist . 
Ned's foot slipped in the grass , and in a moment he went down , with Sam on top of him . 
Still he did not let go , and , finding he was still a prisoner Sam adopted new tactics . 
Silently in the dark the two fought , and Ned found that Sam was getting away . 
Then Ned's hand came in contact with Sam's ear . 
It was the misfortune of the bully to have rather a large hearing apparatus , and once Ned got his fingers on an ear there was room enough to afford a good grip . 
He closed his hold tightly , and began to twist . 
This was too much for Sam . 
He set up a lusty howl . 
Wow ! Ouch ! Let go ! he pleaded , and he ceased to pound Ned , and no longer tried to escape . 
Tom came back on the run . 
What's the matter ? he cried . 
Then his light flashed on the two prostrate lads , and he understood without asking any further questions . 
Get up ! he cried , seizing Sam by the back of his neck , and yanking him to his feet . 
Ned arose , and secured a better grip on the sneaking lad . 
What do you mean by sneaking around here this time of night ? he demanded of the captive . 
Don't you wish you knew ? was Sam's answer , with a leer . 
He realized that he had a certain advantage . 
You'd better tell before I turn you over to the police ! said Tom , sternly . 
You you wouldn't do that would you ? and Sam's voice that had been bold , became shaky . 
You were trespassing on our property , and that's against the law , declared Tom . 
We have signs posted , warning people to keep off . 
I didn't mean any harm , whined Sam . 
Then what were you doing here , at this hour ? I was just taking a short cut home . 
I was out riding with Andy in his auto , and it broke down . 
I had to walk home , and I came this way . 
I didn't know you didn't allow people to cross your back lot . 
Sam might be telling the truth , but it was doubtful . 
What happened to Andy's auto ? the young inventor asked . 
He broke a wheel , going over a big stone on Berk's hill . 
He went to tell some one in the repair shop to go after the car , and I came on home . 
You've got no right to arrest me . 
I ought to , on general principles , commented Tom . 
Well , skip out , and don't you come around here again . 
I'm going to get a savage bull dog , and the first one who comes sneaking around here after dark will be sorry . 
Move along now ! Tom and Ned released their holds of Sam , and the latter lost no time in obeying the injunction to make himself scarce . 
He was soon lost to sight in the darkness . 
Think he was up to some mischief ? asked Ned . 
I'm almost sure of it , replied Tom , but I can't see anything wrong . 
I guess we were too quick for him . 
I believe he , Andy and Pete Bailey tried to put up some job on me . 
Maybe they wanted to damage your new battery or car , suggested Ned . 
The car hasn't been started yet , and as for the battery , no one knows of it outside of you and my friends here . 
Well , if I'm going to take you home I'd better get a move on . 
Wait here and I'll run out Mr. Damon's car . 
In a short time Tom was guiding the machine over the road to Shopton , Ned on the seat beside him . 
The young assistant cashier lived about a mile the other side of the village , and the two chums were soon at his house . 
Asking his friend to come and see him when he had a chance . 
Ned bid his chum good night , and the young inventor started back home . 
Tom , brought suddenly out of his fit of musing , jammed on the brakes , and steered to one side . 
Then he saw that the object was a stalled auto . 
He had only time to note this when a voice hailed him Have you a tire pump you could lend us ? Ours doesn't work , and we have had a blowout . 
I didn't know it was you . 
Oh , it's Tom Swift , remarked the man , and he did not seem especially pleased . 
Hey ! What's that ? cried another voice , which Tom had no difficulty in recognizing as belonging to Andy . 
What's the matter , Dad ? Why it happens to be your ahem ! It's Tom Swift in this other auto , went on Mr. Foger . 
I didn't know you had a car , he added . 
I haven't , answered the lad . 
This belongs to Mr. Damon . 
But can you see to fix your tire in the dark ? for Mr. Foger and his son had no lamps lighted . 
Oh , we have it all fixed , declared the man , and , just as we were going to pump it up out lamps went out . 
Then we found that our pump wouldn't work . 
If you have one I would be obliged for the use of it , and he spoke somewhat stiffly . 
The young inventor got down , removed one of his oil lamps in order that there might be some light on the operation , and then brought over his pump . 
I heard you had an accident , said Tom , a chain of thoughts being rapidly forged in his mind , as he thought of what Sam had told him . 
You heard of it ? repeated Mr. Foger , while Andy was busy pumping up the tire . 
Yes , a friend who was out riding with you said you had broken a wheel on Berk's hill . 
But I see he was slightly wrong . 
You're a good way from Berk's hill , and it's a tire that is broken , not a wheel . 
But I don't understand , said Mr. Foger . 
No friend has been out riding with us . 
My son and I were out on a business trip , and Come on , pop . 
I've got it all pumped up . 
There's your pump , Tom Swift . 
Much obliged , muttered Andy hastily . 
It was very evident that he wanted to prevent any further conversation between his parent and Tom . 
But I don't understand , went on the banker , clearly puzzled . 
What friend gave you such information , Mr. er Tom Swift ? Sam Snedecker , replied the lad quickly . 
I'm glad it was only a blown out tire , and Tom's voice had a curious note in it . 
But there must be some mistake , insisted Mr. Foger . 
Sam Snedecker was not riding with us this evening . 
We have been over to Waterfield my son and I , and Come on , pop ! cried Andy desperately . 
Yes , I think she will . 
But I can't understand why Sam should say such a thing . 
So , mused the young inventor , there's some game on . 
Sam wasn't with Andy , yet Andy evidently knew where Sam was , or he wouldn't have been so anxious to choke off talk . 
Mr. Foger knew nothing of Sam , naturally . 
But why have Andy and his father been on a midnight trip to Waterfield ? That last question caused Tom to adopt a new line of thought . 
That's where Mr. Damon lives . 
Mr. Damon is a heavy depositor in the old bank . 
Mr. Foger is going to start a new bank . 
I wonder if there's any connection there ? This is getting mysterious . 
I must keep my eyes open . 
I guess Andy must have had nervous prostration when I was talking to his father , and Tom grinned at the thought . 
Then , picking up the pump , and fastening the lantern in place , he drove Mr. Damon's auto slowly back home . 
Tom said nothing to his father or Mr. Sharp , the next morning , about the incidents of the previous night . 
In the first place he could not exactly understand them , and he wanted to devote more time to thinking of them , before he mentioned the matter to his parent . 
Another reason was that Mr. Swift was a very nervous person , and the least thing out of the ordinary worried him . 
So the young inventor concluded to keep quiet . 
His first act , after going to look at the small motor , which was being run with the larger , experimental storage battery , was to get out pencil and paper . 
I'll soon start building the car , mused Tom , and then I'll enter it in the race . 
I must write to that touring club and find how much time I have . 
All that morning the young inventor drew plan after plan for an electric runabout , and rejected them . 
Finally he threw aside paper and pencil and exclaimed It's no use . 
I can't think to day . 
I'm dwelling too much on what happened last night . 
I must clear my brain . 
I know what I'll do . 
I'll get in my motor boat and take a run over to Waterfield to see Mr. Damon . 
Maybe he's home by this time . 
Then I can ask him what Mr. Foger wanted to see him about , if he did call . 
It was a fine May morning , and Tom was soon in his boat , the Arrow , gliding over Lake Carlopa , the waters of which sparkled in the sun . 
But there was no sign of his rival this morning , and Tom kept on to Waterfield . 
He found that Mr. Damon had not yet returned home . 
So far I've had my run for nothing , mused the youth . 
Well , I might as well spend the rest of the morning in the boat . 
As Tom passed a small dock he saw a girl just putting out in a rowboat . 
The figure looked familiar and , having nothing special to do , the lad steered over closer . 
His first view was confirmed , and he called out cheerfully Good morning , Miss Nestor . 
Going for a row ? Oh ! Mr. Swift ! exclaimed the girl with a blush . 
I didn't hear you coming . 
Yes , the engine runs quite silently since I fixed it , resumed Tom . 
That's too bad ! remarked the lad . 
Are you asking me that as a hypothetical question ? she inquired . 
Yes , said Tom , trying not to smile . 
What inducement would have to be used ? he asked . 
Suppose you just ask me in plain English to come and have a ride ? she suggested . 
All right , I will ! exclaimed the youth . 
I want to get it the right shape to make the least resistance . 
He began to make some sketches when he got home , and at dinner he showed them to his father and Mr. Sharp . 
He said he had gotten an idea from looking at the airship . 
I'm going to make the front part , or what corresponds to the engine hood in a gasolene car , pointed , he explained . 
It will be just like the front of the aluminum gas container of the airship , only built of steel . 
In it will be a compartment for a set of batteries , and there will be a searchlight there . 
From the top of some supporters in front of the two rear seats , a slanting sheet of steel will come right down to meet the sloping nose of the car . 
I'll use leather side curtains when it rains . 
The motors will be slung under the body of the car , amidships , and there will also be room for some batteries there . 
How are you going to drive the car ? asked Mr. Sharp . 
By a shaft ? Chain drive , explained Tom . 
I can get more power that way , and it will be more flexible under heavy loads . 
Of course it will be steered in the usual way , and near the wheel will be the starting and reversing levers , and the gear handle . 
Gears ! exclaimed the aged inventor . 
Are you going to gear an electric auto ? I never heard of that . 
Usually the motor directly connected is all they use . 
I'm going to have two gears on mine , decided Tom . 
That's a new idea , commented the aeronaut . 
It is , admitted the lad , and that's why my car is going to be so speedy . 
I'll make her go a hundred miles an hour , if necessary ! Nonsense ! exclaimed his father . 
I will ! cried the young inventor , enthusiastically . 
You just wait and see . 
I couldn't do it but for the gears , but by using them I'll secure more speed , especially with the big reserve battery power I'll have . 
I know I've got the right idea , and I'm going to get right to work . 
His father and Mr. Sharp were much interested , and closely examined his sketches . 
In a few days Tom had made detailed drawings , and the aged inventor looked at them critically . 
He had to admit that his son's theory was right , though how it would work out in practice was yet to be demonstrated . 
Mr. Swift offered some suggestions for minor changes , as did Mr. Sharp , and the lad adopted some of them . 
Then , with Mr. Jackson to help him , work was started on constructing the car . 
He also started making the batteries , many of which would be needed . 
Gradually the car began to take form on the floor of Tom's shop . 
It was rather a curious looking affair , the sharp forward part making it appear like some engine of war , or a projectile for some monster gun . 
But Tom cared little for looks . 
Speed , strength and ease of control were the chief features the lad aimed at , and he incorporated many new ideas into his electric car . 
When did you get back ? Last night , replied the eccentric man . 
My wife and I stayed longer than we meant to . 
And whom do you think we met when we were off on our little trip ? Some of the Happy Harry gang ? Oh no . 
You'd never guess , so I'll tell you . 
Indeed ! And how has he been since he went in the submarine with us , and helped recover the gold from the wreck ? Very well . 
He was getting ready to take part in some South American revolution , went on Mr. Damon . 
He used most of his money that he got from the wreck to help finance their cause . 
I must tell Mr. Sharp , went on the lad . 
Anything new since I've been away ? asked the odd man . 
I went over to see what Mr. Foger wanted of you , went on the young inventor , but you weren't home . 
Did he call ? The servant said he had been there , not once , but several times , remarked Mr. Damon . 
He left a note for me , and I haven't read it yet . 
He tore open the letter , and hastily perused the contents . 
So that's what he wanted to see me about ! What ? inquired Tom , with the privilege of and old friend . 
Mr. Foger says he's going to start a new bank , and he wants me to withdraw my deposit from the old one , and put it in his institution . 
Says he'll pay me bigger interest . 
And he adds that some of the old employees have gone with him . 
I hope you're not going to change , spoke Tom , thinking of his chum , Ned . 
The old bank is good enough for me . 
By the way , doesn't a friend of yours work there ? Yes , Ned Newton . 
I'm wondering how he'll be affected ? Don't you worry ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
Bless my check book ! I'll speak to Pendergast about your friend . 
Maybe there'll be a chance to advance him further . 
I've got some mortgages falling due pretty soon , and I'll deposit the money from them in the old bank . 
Then we'll see what we can do about Ned . 
They'll make you a bank director , if you keep on putting in money , remarked our hero , with a smile . 
Not much they won't ! was the quick answer Bless my stocks and bonds ! I've got trouble enough without becoming a bank director . 
My doctor says my liver is out of order again , and I've got to eat a lemon every morning before breakfast . 
Eat a lemon ? Well , drink the juice ! It's the same thing . 
But how is the electric runabout coming on ? Pretty good . 
Have you entered it in the races yet ? No , but I've written for information . 
I have until September to finish it . 
The races take place then . 
It's easy to run from there over to the Long Island track . 
They're building a new one , especially for the occasion . 
Well , I hope you win the prize . 
I must go to town now , as I have to attend to some business . 
I don't s'pose you want to come in my auto . 
I'm pretty sure something will break before I get there , and I'd like to have you along to fix it . 
Sorry , but I'm afraid I can't go , replied the lad . 
I must get this car done , and then I've got to start on the batteries . 
Mr. Damon rather reluctantly went off alone , looking anxiously at his car , for the machine got out of order on every trip he took . 
It was a few days after this that Tom received a call from Ned one evening . 
The bank employee's face wore a happy smile . 
What's the matter some one left you a fortune ? asked Tom . 
I've got a better position . 
What ? Have you left the old bank , and gone to the new one ? No , I'm still in the same bank , but I'm one of the two cashiers now . 
Mr. Foger took several of the old employees when he opened his new bank , and that left vacancies . 
I was promoted , and so were one or two others . 
Mr. Damon spoke a good word for me . 
That's fine ! He's a friend worth having . 
Your father also recommended me . 
But how are things with you ? Has Andy made any more trouble ? No , and I don't believe he will . 
I guess he'll steer clear of me . 
But Tom was soon to learn he was mistaken . 
A month passed , and such was the progress made that Tom felt justified in making formal entry of his vehicle for the races to be held by the Touring Club of America . 
He paid a contingent fee and was listed as one of the competitors . 
As is usual in an affair of this kind , the promoters of it desired publicity , and they sought it through the papers . 
Consequently each new entrant's name was published . 
In addition something was said about his previous achievements in the speed line . 
This gave an enterprising reporter a chance for a special for the Sunday supplement of a New York newspaper . 
Tom and his friends laughed at the yarn , at first , but it soon had undesirable results . 
Many persons came a long distance , hoping for a sight of the wonderful car , as pictured in the Sunday supplement , but they had to be denied . 
The news , thus leaking out , kept the Swift shops almost constantly besieged by many curious ones , who sought , by various means , to gain admission . 
This had the desired effect , though the wires which were strung about carried such a mild charge that it would not have harmed a child . 
I've got a plan ! exclaimed Tom one day when the boys had been particularly troublesome . 
What is it ? asked his father . 
We'll hire Eradicate Sampson to stand guard with a bucket of whitewash . 
He'll keep the boys away . 
The plan was put into operation , and Eradicate and his mule , Boomerang , were installed on the premises . 
Deed an' Ah'll keep dem lads away , promised the colored man . 
Ah'll splash white stuff all ober 'em , if dey comes traipsin' around me . 
Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey were two who received a liberal sprinkling of the lime , and they vowed vengeance on Tom . 
And Andy Foger will help us , too , added Sam , as he withdrew , after an encounter with Eradicate . 
Doan't let dat worry yo' , Mistah Swift ! exclaimed the darkey . 
Jest let dat low down good fo nuffin' Andy Foger come 'round me , an' Ah'll make him t'ink he's de inside ob a chicken coop , dat's what Ah will . 
Perhaps Andy heard of this , and kept away . 
In the meanwhile Tom kept on perfecting his car and battery . 
From the club secretary he learned that a number of inventors were working on electric cars , and there promised to be many of the speedy vehicles in the race . 
After considerable labor Tom had succeeded in getting together one set of the batteries . 
He had them completed one afternoon , and wanted to give them a test that night . 
But , when he went to his father's chemical laboratory for a certain powder , which he needed to use in the battery solution , he found there was none . 
I'll have to ride in to Mansburg for some , he decided . 
I'll go after supper , on my motorcycle , and test the battery to night . 
The young inventor left his house immediately after the evening meal . 
Andy has been keeping out of my way lately , mused Tom . 
I wonder if he's up to any mischief ? I don't like the way Sam Snedecker is hanging around the shop , either . 
It looks as if they were plotting something . 
But I guess Eradicate and his pail of whitewash will scare them off . 
Tom got the powdered chemical he wanted in the drug store , and , after refreshing himself with some ice cream soda , he started back . 
But he did not see her , and soon turned into the main highway leading to Shopton . 
They ranged themselves across the road , and one cried Halt ! in tones that were meant to be stern , but which seemed to Tom , to tremble somewhat . 
The young inventor was so surprised that he did not open the gasolene throttle , nor switch on his spark . 
As a consequence his motor cycle lost momentum , and he had to take one foot from the pedal and touch the ground , to prevent himself from toppling over . 
Hold on there ! cried another voice . 
What do you want , and who are you ? Never mind who we are . 
As the light flashed on them he was surprised to see that all the figures wore masks over their faces . 
Was this the Happy Harry gang after him again ? He hoped not , yet the fact that the persons had on masks made the hold up have an ugly look . 
Once more Tom flashed the light on the throng . 
There were exclamations of dismay . 
Douse that glim , somebody ! called a sharp voice , which Tom could not recognize . 
A stone came whizzing through the air , from some one in the crowd . 
There was a smashing of glass as it hit the lantern , and the road was plunged in darkness . 
Tom tried to throw one leg over the saddle , and let down the supporting stand from the rear wheel , so the motorcycle would remain upright without him holding it . 
He determined to have revenge for that act of vandalism in breaking his lamp . 
But , just as he was free of the seat , he was surrounded by a dozen persons , and several hands were laid on him . 
We've got you now ! some one fairly hissed in his ear . 
His arms were securely bound with ropes , and a handkerchief was tied over his eyes . 
Tom Swift was a prisoner . 
A little light sifted down from the starlit sky above , but it was not sufficient . 
But two things were against this belief . 
Happy Harry's crowd never numbered so many . 
Maybe they're highwaymen , thought our hero , as he was dragged along But that can't be , he reasoned further . 
If they wanted to rob me they'd have done it back there in the road , and not brought me off here in the woods . 
Besides , I haven't anything for them to steal . 
Suddenly Tom stumbled over a projecting root , and nearly fell , dragging along with him the person who had hold of his left arm . 
Look out there ! What's the matter with you ? exclaimed one of the throng quickly , and at the sound of the voice Tom started . 
Andy Foger ! cried the young inventor , as he recovered himself , for he had recognized the voice of the red haired bully . 
What do you mean by holding me up in this way ? he demanded . 
Quiet ! urged a voice in his ear , and the tones were unfamiliar . 
Mention no names ! I'm on to your game ! retorted Tom . 
You'd better quit this nonsense , Tom went on . 
I'll cause the arrest of all of you if you make trouble for me . 
Nor is this nonsense , the other went on . 
You are about to receive the punishment due you . 
Our hero did not answer , but he was doing some hard thinking . 
He wondered why Andy and his crowd had captured him . 
Suddenly the blackness of the woods was illuminated by the fitful gleam of a distant fire . 
The light became stronger , and , a moment later the prisoner and his captors emerged into a little clearing , where a fire was burning . 
Two figures , masked with black cloth , as were all in the crowd , stood about the blaze , putting on sticks of wood . 
Did you get him ? asked one of these figures eagerly . 
Yes , they got me , Sam Snedecker , answered Tom quickly , recognizing Sam's tones . 
And they'll wish they hadn't before I'm done with them . 
Quiet ! ordered an unknown voice . 
Members of the Deep Forest Throng , the prisoner is here ! the lad went on . 
'Tis well , bind the captive to the sacrificial tree , was the response from some one in the crowd . 
He was at ease now , for he recognized that those who had taken him prisoner were all lads of Andy's character . 
Most of them were Shopton youths , but some , evidently , were strangers in town . 
Tom felt he had little to fear . 
Bring him over here , ordered one , and Tom cried out You wouldn't be giving those orders , Andy Foger , if my arms weren't tied . 
And if you'll untie me , I'll fight any two of you at once , offered the young inventor fiercely , for he hated the humiliation to which he was being subjected . 
Don't do it ! Don't untie him ! begged some one . 
No danger , they won't . 
They're afraid to , Pete Bailey , replied Tom quickly , for he had recognized the voice of the other one of Andy's particular cronies . 
Aw , he knows who we are , whispered Sam , but not so low but that our hero heard him . 
No matter , was Andy's retort . 
Let's go ahead with it . 
Tie him to that tree . 
It was useless for Tom to struggle . 
He was bound too tightly by the rope , and the crowd was too many for him . 
In a few minutes he was securely fastened to a tree , not far from the camp fire , which was replenished from time to time . 
Now for the judgment ! called one of the masked lads , in what he meant to be a sepulchral tone . 
He's too fresh and and I'll make you wish you felt fresh when I get hold of you , Andy , murmured Tom . 
Quiet ! cried a tall lad . 
What's the next charge ? He keeps an old colored man on guard at his place , was the answer , and Tom had no difficulty in recognizing the voice of Sid Holton . 
The coon throws whitewash all over us . 
I got some of it . 
You wouldn't have , if you'd minded your own business , retorted Tom . 
It served you right ! What is the verdict on the prisoner ? asked one who seemed to be the leader . 
I say let's tar and feather him ! cried Andy suddenly . 
There's a barrel of tar back in the woods here , and we can get some feathers from a chicken coop . 
That would make him so he wouldn't be so uppish , I guess ! That's right ! Tar and feathers ! exclaimed several . 
He was not afraid , but he did not relish the indignity that was proposed . 
He resolved to fight to the last ounce of his strength against the masked lads . 
Can we get a kettle to heat the tar in ? asked some one . 
We'll find one , answered Sam Snedecker . 
Come on , let's do it . 
You'll look pretty , Tom Swift , when we're through with you , he exulted . 
Tom did not answer , but there was fierce anger in his heart . 
The tar and feather proposal seemed to meet with general favor . 
Members of the Deep Forest Throng , we will hold a consultation , proposed the leader , in his assumed deep voice . 
Come over here , to one side . 
Brother Number Six , guard the prisoner well . 
There ain't no need to , answered a lad who had been instructed to mount guard over Tom . 
He's tied so tight he can't move . 
I want to hear what you say . 
Very well then , assented the leader , But look to his bonds . 
The lad made a hasty examination of the ropes binding the young inventor to the tree , and Tom was glad that the examination was a hasty one . 
For he feared the guard might discover that one hand had been worked nearly free . 
The young inventor had done this while he leered at his captors . 
Tom was not going to submit tamely to the nonsense , and from the moment he had been tied , he had been trying to get loose . 
He had nearly succeeded in freeing one hand when the crowd of masked boys moved off to one side , where they presently began to talk in excited whispers . 
I wonder how they came to catch me , thought the prisoner , as he worked feverishly to further loosen the ropes . 
This looks as if it was a put up job , with the masks , and everything . 
Later he learned that the idea was the outcome of a proposal of one of the new arrivals in town . 
He had organized the Deep Forest Throng , as a sort of secret society , and Andy and his cronies had been induced to join . 
The idea was enthusiastically received , and Andy and his cronies thought they saw a chance to be revenged . 
Tom , while he picked at the ropes , listened to what the boys were saying . 
He managed to get one hand comparatively free , so that he could move it about , but then he struck several hard knots , and could make no further progress . 
The conference seemed on the point of breaking up . 
One of you go for a big kettle to boil the tar in , ordered the leader , and the rest of you dig up some feathers . 
I must get loose ! thought Tom desperately . 
If they try to tar and feather me it will be a risky business . 
I've got to get loose ! They may burn me severely ! But , though he tried with all his strength , the ropes would not loosen another bit . 
He had one hand free , and that was all . 
The crowd was moving back toward him . 
My knife ! thought the captive quickly . 
It was not his knife , and , for a moment he felt a pang of disappointment . 
Then , as he realized what it was that he had grasped , a new idea came to him . 
This will be better than the knife ! he thought exultantly . 
The crowd of lads was now surrounding him , some distance from the fire , which burned in front of the captive . 
Sentence has been passed upon you , remarked the leader . 
Prepare to meet thy doom ! Get the materials , brothers ! One moment ! called Tom , for he wanted the crowd all present to witness what he was about to do . 
I'll give you one chance to let me go peaceably . 
If you don't Well , what will you do ? demanded Andy sneeringly , as he pulled his mask further over his face . 
I guess you won't do anything , Tom Swift . 
I'll give you one chance to let me go , and I'll agree to say nothing about this joke , went on Tom . 
If you don't I'll blow this place up ! For a moment there was a silence . 
Ha ! Ha ! Ho ! Ho ! laughed Sam Snedecker . 
I'd like to see you do it hey , fellers ? Sure , came the answering chorus . 
Would you ? asked Tom quickly . 
He threw something to ward the blazing fire , which was now burning well . 
Something white sailed through the air , and fell amid the hot embers . 
A great cloud of white smoke arose , as the vivid blue glare died away , and it seemed as if a great wind swept over the place . 
The fire had been scattered , and extinguished by the explosion which Tom , though still bound to the tree had caused to happen in the midst of the Deep Forest Throng . 
Then , as the smoke rolled away , Andy Foger cried Come on , fellows ! Something's happened . 
I guess a volcano blew up ! CHAPTER IX TOM IS RESCUED The Deep Forest Throng needed no urging to flee from the place of the mysterious explosion . 
Their prisoner , helpless as he had seemed , had proved too much for them . 
Slipping and stumbling along in the darkness , the masked lads had but one thought to get away before they saw more of that blue fire , and the force of the concussion . 
Gee ! My eyebrows are all singed off ! cried Sam Snedecker , as he tore loose his mask which had been rent in the explosion , and felt of his face . 
And my hands are burned , added Pete Bailey . 
I stood closer to the fire than any of you . 
You did not ! I got the worst of it ! cried Andy . 
I was knocked down by the explosion , and I'll bet I'm hurt somewhere . 
Help me out , somebody ! pleaded Andy . 
Dry up ! commanded Sid Holton . 
It's all your fault , for proposing such a fool trick as capturing Tom Swift . 
We might have known he would get the best of us . 
What was that stuff he used , anyhow ? asked Cecil Hedden , the lad responsible for the organization of the Deep Forest Throng . 
He must be a wonder . 
I guess we were chumps to tackle him . 
He must have put some kind of chemical in the fire , to make it blow up . 
Or else he summoned his airship by wireless , and had that balloonist , Mr. Sharp , drop a bomb in the blaze , suggested another lad . 
But how could he do anything ? Wasn't he tied fast to that tree ? asked Cecil , the leader . 
You never know when you've got Tom Swift tied , declared Jack Reynolds . 
You think you've got him , and you haven't . 
He's too slick for us . 
It's Andy's fault , for proposing to capture him . 
That's right ! Blame it all on me , whined the squint eyed bully . 
You was just as anxious as I was to tar and feather him . 
Well , we didn't do it , commented Pete Bailey , dryly . 
I s'pose he's loose now , laughin' at us . 
Gee , but that was an explosion though ! It's a wonder some of us weren't killed ! I guess I've had enough of this Deep Forest Throng business . 
Aw , don't be afraid , urged Cecil . 
The next time we get him we'll be on our guard . 
You'll never catch Tom Swift again , predicted Pete . 
I'll go back now to where he is , if you will , agreed Cecil , who was older than the others . 
Not much ! cried Pete . 
This seemed to be the sentiment of all . 
But our hero was not yet free from the bonds of his enemies . 
As his eyes became accustomed to the semi darkness that followed the glare , he remarked Well , I don't know that I'm much better off . 
I gave those fellows a good scare , but I'm not loose . 
But I can work to better advantage now . 
Once more he resumed the effort to free himself , but in spite of the crude manner in which the knots had been made , the lad could not get loose . 
The more he pulled and tugged the tighter they seemed to become . 
This is getting serious , Tom mused . 
If I could only reach my knife I could cut them , but it's in my pocket on the other side , and that bond's fast . 
Guess I'll have to stay here all night . 
Maybe I'd better call for help , but His words , spoken half aloud , were suddenly interrupted by a crash in the underbrush . 
At first Tom thought it was Andy and his cronies coming back , but a voice that called a moment later proved that this was not so . 
Is any one here ? shouted a man . 
Any one hurt ? What was that fire and explosion ? I'm here , replied Tom . 
I'm not hurt exactly , but I'm tied to a tree . 
I'll be much obliged if you'll loosen me . 
Who are you ? Tom Swift . 
Is that you , Mr. Mason ? Yes . 
By jinks ! I never expected to find you here , Tom . 
Over this way , men , he added calling aloud . 
I've found him it's Tom Swift . 
There was the flicker of several lanterns amid the trees , and soon a number of men had joined Mr. Mason , and surrounded Tom . 
They were farmers living in the neighborhood . 
What in the name o' Tunket happened ? asked one . 
Did you get hit by a meteor or a comet ? Who tied you up highwaymen ? Cut him loose first , and ask questions afterward , suggested Mr. Mason . 
Yes , added Tom , with a laugh , I wish you would . 
I'm beginning to feel cramped . 
With their knives , the farmers quickly cut the ropes , and some of them rubbed the arms of the lad to restore the circulation . 
What was it highwaymen ? asked a man , unable to longer restrain his curiosity . 
Did they rob you ? No , it wasn't highwaymen , replied the youth . 
It was a trick of some boys I know , and to Tom's credit be it said that he did not mention their names . 
They did it for a joke , he added . 
Boys' trick ? Joke ? queried Mr. Mason . 
Pretty queer sort of a joke , I think . 
They ought to be arrested . 
Oh , I fancy I gave them what was coming to them , went on the young inventor . 
Did they try to blow ye up , too ? asked Mr. Hertford . 
What in th' name of Tunket was that blue light , and that explosion ? I heard it an' saw it way over to my house . 
So did I , remarked Mr. Mason , and several others said the same thing . 
We thought a meteor had fallen , he continued , and we got together to make an investigation . 
It's a good thing for me you did , admitted Tom , or I might have had to stay here all night . 
But was it a meteor ? insisted Mr. Hertford . 
No , replied the lad , I did it . 
You see after they tied me I found I could get one hand free . 
I reached in my pocket for my knife , but instead of it I managed to get hold of a package of powder I had . 
Gunpowder ? asked Mr. Mason . 
No , a chemical powder I use in an electrical battery . 
The powder explodes in fire , and makes quite a blue flash , and a lot of smoke , but it isn't very dangerous , otherwise I wouldn't have used it . 
When the boys were some distance away from the fire , I threw the powder in the blaze . 
It went off in a moment , and I guess they run some didn't they ? asked Mr. Mason with a laugh . 
They certainly did , agreed Tom . 
But I should think you'd want to have them punished , remarked Mr. Mason . 
I'll attend to that part later , answered Tom . 
Besides , most of them didn't know what they were doing . 
They were led on by one or two . 
No , I'll fight my own battles . 
But I wish you'd lend me a lantern long enough to find my motor cycle . 
The moon doesn't give much light in the woods , and those fellows may have hidden my machine . 
Mr. Mason and his companions readily agreed to accompany Tom on a search for his wheel . 
It was found just where he had dismounted from it in the road . 
Andy and his cronies had evidently had enough of their encounter with our hero , and did not dare to annoy him further . 
Do you think you can ride home ? asked one of the farmers of the lad , when he had ascertained that his machine was in running order . 
Well , it's risky without my lantern , answered Tom . 
They smashed that for me . 
But I guess I can manage . 
No , you can't ! insisted Mr. Mason . 
You're stiff from being tied up and you can't ride . 
Now you just wheel that contraption over to my place , and I'll hitch up and take you home . 
Oh , I couldn't think of troubling you , declared Tom . 
At the same time he felt that he was in no condition to ride . 
It's no trouble at all , insisted Mr. Mason . 
I guess your father and I are good enough friends to allow me to have my way . 
You can come over and get your choo choo bicycle in the morning . 
We'll have to get after Andy again , declared the aeronaut . 
He needs another toning down . 
Yes , similar to the one he got when we nearly ran away with his automobile , by catching the airship anchor on it , added Tom with a laugh . 
But I fancy Andy will steer clear of me for a while . 
I'm sorry I had to use up that chemical powder , though . 
Now I can't start my battery until to morrow . 
But the next day Tom made up for lost time , by working from early until late . 
He went over to Mr. Mason's , got his motor cycle , procured some more of the chemical , and soon had his storage battery in running order . 
Then he arranged for a more severe test , and while that was going on he worked at completing the body of the electric runabout . 
The vehicle was beginning to look like a car , though it was not of the regulation pattern . 
Well , Tom , how are you coming on ? asked his father one night , as they sat on the porch , Mr. Sharp with them . 
Pretty well , Dad , was the answer of the young inventor . 
I'll put the wheels on tomorrow , and then set the batteries . 
I've got the motor all finished and all I'll have to do will be to connect it up , and then I'll be ready for a trial on the road . 
And you still think you'll beat all records ? I'm pretty sure of it , Dad . 
You see the amperage will be exceptionally high , and my batteries will have a large amount of reserve , with little internal resistance . 
But do you know I'm so tired I can hardly think . 
It's more of a job than I thought it would be . 
Tom , a little later , strolled down the road . 
As he turned back toward the house and walked up the shrubbery lined path he heard a noise . 
Some one's hiding in there ! thought the lad , and he darted to an opening in the hedge to reach the other side . 
As he did so he saw a figure running away . 
Whether it was a man or a boy he could not tell in the darkness . 
Hold on there ! cried the young inventor , but , naturally , the fleeing one did not stop . 
Tom began to sprint , and as it was slightly down hill , he made good time . 
The figure ahead of him was running well , too , but Tom who could see better , now that he was out from under the trees , noticed that he was gaining . 
The fleeing one came to a little brook , and hesitated a moment before leaping across . 
This enabled Tom to catch up , and he made a grab for the figure , just as the man or boy sprang across the little stream . 
Tom missed his grip , but he was not going to give up . 
He scarcely slackened his speed , but , with the momentum he had acquired in racing down the hill , he , too , leaped across the brook . 
I've got you now ! cried Tom exultantly , reaching out his hand . 
His fingers clutched something , but the next instant the young inventor went sprawling . 
The unknown , pausing a moment to view what he had done , turned quickly and raced off in the darkness . 
The water was not deep , but he had splashed in with such force that he was wet all over . 
And , as he got up , the water drip ping from his clothes , the lad was conscious of a pain in his head . 
He put up his hand , and found that contact with a stone had raised a large lump on his forehead . 
It was as big as a hen's egg . 
Humph ! I'll be a pretty sight to morrow , murmured Tom . 
I wonder who that fellow was , anyhow , and what he wanted ? He tripped me neatly enough , whoever he was . 
I've a good notion to keep on after him . 
Then , as he realized what a start the fleeing one had , the young inventor knew that it would be fruitless to renew the chase . 
Slowly he ascended the sloping bank , and started for home . 
As he did so he realized that he had , clasped in his fingers , something he had grabbed from the person he was pursuing just before his unlucky tumble . 
It's part of his watch chain ! exclaimed Tom , as he felt of the article . 
I must have ripped it loose when I fell . 
Wonder what it is ? Evidently some sort of a charm . 
Maybe it will be a clue . 
He tried to discern of what style it was , but in the dark woods this was impossible . 
Then the lad tried to strike a match , but those in his pocket had become wet from his unexpected bath . 
Why Tom , what's the matter ? exclaimed Mrs. Baggert , when he entered the kitchen , dripping water at every step . 
Is it raining outside ? I didn't hear any storm . 
It was raining where I was , replied Tom angrily . 
I fell in the brook . 
It was so hot I thought I'd cool off . 
With your best suit on ! ejaculated the housekeeper . 
It isn't my best , retorted the lad . 
But I went in before I thought . 
It was an accident I fell , he added , lest Mrs. Baggert take his joking remarks seriously . 
He did not want to tell her of the chase . 
As the light from the kitchen fell upon it he could hardly repress an exclamation of astonishment . 
Addison Berg , murmured Tom , as he looked at the watch charm . 
What can he be doing in this neighborhood ? Hiding , too , as if he wanted to overhear something . 
That's the way he did when we were building our submarine , and now he's up to the same trick when I'm constructing my electric car . 
I'm sure this charm is his . 
It is such a peculiar design that I'm positive I can't be mistaken . 
I thought , when I was chasing after him , that it would turn out to be Andy Foger , or some of the boys , but it was too big for them . 
Addison Berg , eh ? What can he be doing around here ? I must not tell Dad , or he'd worry himself sick . 
But I must be on my guard . 
Tom examined the charm closely . 
It was a compass , but made in an odd form , and was much ornamented . 
He felt that he could not be mistaken in identifying the charm . 
Berg was afraid I'd catch him , and ask for an explanation that would have been awkward to make , thought the lad , as he turned the charm over in his hand . 
That's why he tripped me up . 
But I'll get at the bottom of this yet . 
Maybe he wants to steal my ideas for an electric car . 
Tom's musings were suddenly interrupted by Mrs. Baggert . 
I hope you're not going to stand there all night , she said , with a laugh . 
You're in the middle of a puddle now , but when you get over dreaming I'd like to mop it up . 
All right , agreed the young inventor , coming to himself suddenly . 
Guess I'd better go get some dry clothes on . 
You'd better go to bed , advised Mrs. Baggert . 
That's where your father and Mr. Sharp are . 
The more Tom thought over the strange occurrence the more it puzzled him . 
He mused over the presence of Berg as he went about his work the next day , for that it was the agent whom he had pursued he felt positive . 
But I can't figure out why he was hanging around here , mused Tom . 
The new batteries , he found , were working well , and in the next two days he had constructed several more , joining them so as to get the combined effect . 
It was the afternoon of the third day from Tom's unexpected fall into the brook that the young inventor decided on the first important test of his new device . 
He was going to try the motor , running it with his storage battery . 
Some of the connections were already in place , the wires being fastened to the side of the shop , where they were attached to switches . 
Tom did not go over these , taking it for granted that they were all right . 
Guess I'll call Dad and Mr. Sharp in to see how it works , before I turn on the current , he said to himself . 
Better put that away , he remarked . 
Dad or Mr. Sharp might see it , and ask questions . 
Then I'd have to explain , and I don't want to , not until I get further toward the bottom of this thing . 
He put the charm away , and then summoned his father and the balloonist . 
You're going to see a fine experiment , declared Tom . 
I'm going to turn on the full strength of my battery . 
Are you sure it's all right , Tom ? asked his father . 
You can't be too careful when you're dealing with electricity of high voltage , and great ampere strength . 
Oh , it's all right , Dad , his son assured him Now watch my motor hum . 
Here she goes ! cried Tom . 
For an instant he hesitated and then pulled the switch . 
At the same time his hand rested on another wire , stretched across a bench . 
No sooner had the switch closed than there was a blinding flash , a report as of a gun being fired , and Tom's body seemed to straighten out . 
Then a blue flame appeared to encircle him and he dropped to the floor of the shop , an inert mass . 
He's killed ! cried Mr. Swift , springing forward . 
Careful ! cautioned the balloonist . 
He's been shocked ! Don't touch him until I turn off the current ! As he pulled out the switch , the aeronaut gave a glance at the apparatus . 
There's something wrong here ! he cried . 
Mr Sharp stooped over and lifted Tom's form from the floor , for Mr. Swift was too excited and trembled too much to be of any service . 
Our hero was as one dead . 
His body was limp , after that first rigid stretching out , as the current ran through him his eyes were closed , and his face was very pale . 
Is is there any hope ? faltered Mr. Swift . 
I think so , replied the balloonist . 
He is still breathing faintly . 
We must summon a doctor at once . 
Bless my soul ! exclaimed a voice . 
Tom's hurt ! How did it happen ? Bless my very existence ! Oh , Mr. Damon , you're just in time ! exclaimed Mr. Sharp , Tom's had a bad shock . 
Will you go for a doctor in your auto ? Better than that ! Let me take Tom in the car to Dr . 
Whiteside's office , proposed the eccentric man . 
It will be better that way . 
Yes , yes , agreed Mr. Swift eagerly . 
Put Tom in the auto ! If only it doesn't break down , added Mr. Damon fervently . 
Only a little fluttering of the eyelids , and a slow , faint breathing told that Tom Swift still lived . 
Mr. Damon never guided a car better than he did his auto that day . 
Several speed laws were broken , but no one appeared to stop them , and , in record time they had the young inventor at the physician's house . 
Whiteside was at home , and , under his skillful treatment Tom was soon out of danger . 
His heart action was properly started , and then it was only a question of time . 
Oh , I'm all right , the youth insisted , when Miss Whiteside told him it was time for his medicine . 
You're not ! she declared . 
I ought to know , for I'm going to be a nurse , some day , and help papa . 
Well , I give in to superior strength , he said with a laugh , as he noted , with approval , the laughing face of his nurse . 
Then he fell into a deep sleep , and was so much better the next morning that he could be taken home in Mr. Damon's auto . 
But mind , no hard work for three or four days , insisted the physician . 
I want your heart to get in shape for that big race you were telling me about . 
The shock was a severe strain to it . 
And look at the record it's made ! cried Tom delightedly as he glanced at the gauge Better than I figured on . 
That battery is a wonder . 
I'll have the fastest electric runabout you ever saw . 
If the wires don't get crossed again , put in Mr. Sharp . 
You'd better make an examination , Tom , and , for the first time , the young inventor learned how he had been shocked . 
Crossed wires ! I should say they were crossed ! he exclaimed as he looked at the switches and copper conductors . 
Somebody has been tampering with them . 
No wonder I was shocked ! Who did it ? asked Mr. Sharp . 
Tom considered for a moment , before answering . 
Then he said I believe it was Addison Berg . 
He must have wanted to do some damage , to get even with us for getting that treasure away from him . 
Berg ? questioned the balloonist , and Tom told of the night he had been tripped into the brook , and exhibited the watch charm he had secured . 
Mr. Sharp recognized it at once . 
A further examination confirmed the belief that the submarine agent had sneaked into Tom's workshop , and had altered the wires . 
They were all right when I came out of the shop that night , declared Tom . 
I left the old connections just as I thought I had arranged them , and only added the new ones , when I went to try my battery . 
The old connections were crossed , but I didn't notice it . 
Then when I turned on the current I got the shock . 
I don't s'pose Berg thought I'd be so nearly killed . 
Probably he wanted to burn out my motor , and spoil it . 
Well , we'll have to be on our guard , that's all . 
What was the matter with Eradicate , that he didn't see him enter the shop ? Rad went to a colored dance that night , said Tom . 
But after this I'll have the shop guarded night and day . 
My motor might have been ruined , if that first charge hadn't gone through my body instead of into the machinery . 
The improper connections were soon removed and others substituted . 
It was agreed between Tom and Mr. Sharp that they would say nothing regarding Mr. Berg to Mr. Swift . 
Not the first time , replied his father . 
Let's see how it runs with you , first . 
Oh , I want some sort of a load in it , went on the lad . 
It won't be a good test unless I have a couple of others besides myself . 
How about you , Mr. Damon ? for the old gentleman was spending a few days at the Swift homestead . 
Bless my shoe buttons ! I'll come ! was the ready answer . 
After the experience I've been through in the airship and submarine , nothing can scare me . 
Lead on , I'll follow ! I don't suppose you'll hang back after that will you , Mr. Sharp ? asked the lad , with a laugh . 
So he and Mr. Damon climbed into the rear seats of the odd looking electric car , while Tom took his place at the steering wheel . 
Are you all ready ? he asked . 
Let her go ! fired back Mr. Sharp . 
Bless my galvanometer , don't go too fast on the start , cautioned Mr. Damon , nervously . 
I'll not , agreed the young inventor . 
I want to get it warmed up before I try any speeding . 
He turned on the current . 
There was a low , humming purr , which gradually increased to a whine , and the car moved slowly forward . 
It rolled along the gravel driveway to the road , Tom listening to every sound of the machinery , as a mother listens to the breathing of a child . 
She's moving ! he cried . 
But not much faster than a wheelbarrow , said his father , who sometimes teased his son . 
Wait ! cried the youth . 
Tom turned more current into the motor . 
The purring and humming increased , and the car seemed to leap forward . 
It was in the road now , and , once assured that the steering apparatus was working well , Tom suddenly turned on much more speed . 
So quickly did the electric auto shoot forward that Mr. Damon and Mr. Sharp were jerked back against the cushions of the rear seats . 
Here ! What are you doing ? inquired Mr. Sharp . 
I'm going to show you a little speed , answered Tom . 
The car was now moving rapidly , and there was a smoothness and lightness to its progress that was absent from a gasolene auto . 
There was no vibration from the motor . 
Faster and faster it ran , until it was moving at a speed scarcely less than that of Mr. Damon's car , when it was doing its best . 
Of course that was not saying much , for the car owned by the odd gentleman was not a very powerful one , but it could make fast time occasionally . 
Is this the best you can do ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Not that it isn't fast , he hastened to add , and I was wondering if it was your limit . 
Not half ! cried Tom , as he turned on a little more power . 
I'm not trying for a record to day . 
I just want to see how the battery and motor behaves . 
Pretty well , I should say , commented Mr. Sharp . 
I'm satisfied so far , agreed the lad . 
They were now moving along the highway at a good speed moving almost silently , too , for the motor , save for a low hum , made no noise . 
So quiet was the car , in fact , that it was nearly the cause of a disaster . 
Tom was so interested in the performance of his latest invention , that , before he knew it , he had come up behind a farmer , driving a team of skittish horses . 
As the big machine went past them , giving no warning of its approach , the steeds reared up , and would have bolted , but for the prompt action of the driver . 
Hold on ! I guess this is fast enough ! cried Mr. Damon , as his hat blew off . 
This is nothing to what I'll do when I use the full power . 
Then I'll He was interrupted by a sharp report , and a vivid flash of fire on a switch board near the steering wheel . 
The motor gave a sort of groan , and stopped , the car rolling on a little way , and then becoming stationary . 
Bless my collar button ! ejaculated Mr. Damon . 
What's the matter ? inquired Mr. Sharp . 
Some sort of a blow out , answered Tom ruefully , as he shoved the starting handle over , trying to move the car . 
But it would not budge . 
The new auto had gone dead on her first tryout . 
The young inventor was grievously disappointed . 
CHAPTER XIII TOWED BY A MULE Bless my gizzard ! Is it anything serious ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Will it blow up , or anything like that ? No , replied the lad , as he leaped out of the car , and began to make an examination . 
The motor seems to be all right , remarked the balloonist , as he inspected it . 
Yes , agreed our hero , and the batteries have plenty of power left in them yet . 
I can't understand what the trouble can be , unless He paused in his remark and uttered an exclamation . 
I've found it ! he cried . 
What ? demanded the aeronaut . 
Some of the fuses blew out . 
I turned on too much current , and the fuses wouldn't carry it . 
I put them in to save the motor from being burned out , but I didn't use heavy enough ones . 
I see where my mistake was . 
But what does it mean ? inquired Mr. Damon . 
It means that we've got to walk back home , was Tom's sorrowful answer . 
The car is stalled , for I haven't any extra fuses with me . 
Can't you connect up the battery by using some extra wire ? asked Mr. Sharp . 
I have some , and he drew a coil of it from his pocket . 
It might be so heavy that it would carry more current than the motor could stand . 
I don't want to burn that out . 
No , I guess we'll have to walk home , or rather I will . 
You two can stay here until I come back with heavier fuses . 
Yo' all ain't got no call t' git contrary now , jest when I wants t' git home t' mah dinner . 
I should t'ink you'd want t' git t' de stable , too . 
But ef yo' all ain't mighty keerful I'll cut down yo' rations , dat's what I'se goin' to do . 
G'lang , now , dat's a good feller . 
Ho ! Ho ! I knowed dat'd fetch yo' all . 
When yo' all wiggles yo' ears dat a way , dat's a suah sign yo' all is gwine t' move . 
Then followed the sound of a rattletrap of a wagon approaching . 
Eradicate ! It's Eradicate ! exclaimed Tom . 
And his mule , Boomerang ! added Mr. Sharp . 
He's just in time ! commented Mr. Damon with a sigh of relief , as the ancient outfit , in charge of the aged colored man , came along . 
Eradicate had been sent to Shopton to get a load of wood for Mr. Swift , and was now returning . 
At the sight of the stalled auto the mule pricked up his long ears , and threw them forward . 
Whoa dar , now , Boomerang ! cried Eradicate . 
Doan't yo' all commence t' gittin' skittish . 
Dat machine ain't gwine t' hurt yo' . 
Why good land a' massy ! Ef 'tain't Mistah Swift ! cried the colored man , as he caught sight of Tom . 
What's de trouble ? he asked . 
Broke down , answered the young inventor briefly . 
You always seem to come along when I'm in trouble , Rad . 
Dat's right , assented the darkey , with a grin . 
Me an' trouble am ole acquaintances . 
Sometimes she hits me a clip on de haid , den , ag'in Boomerang , mah mule , gits it . 
He jest had his trouble . 
Got a stone under his shoe , an' didn't want t' move . 
Den when I did git him started he balked on me . 
But I'se all right now . 
But I suah am sorry fo' you . 
Can't I help yo' all , Mistah Swift ? Yes , you can , Rad , answered Tom . 
Drive home as fast as you can , and ask Dad to send back with you some of those fuses he'll find on my work bench . 
He knows what I want . 
Hurry there and hurry back . 
Eradicate shook his head doubtfully . 
What's the matter ? Don't you want to go ? asked Mr. Sharp , a trifle nettled . 
We can't get the car started until we have some new fuses . 
Oh , I wants t' go all right 'nuff , Mistah Sharp , was Eradicate's prompt answer . 
Yo' all knows I'd do anyt'ing t' 'blige yo' or Mistah Swift . 
But hits dish yeah mule , Boomerang . 
I jest done promised him dat we were gwine home t' dinnah , an' he 'spects a manger full ob oats . 
Bless my necktie ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
I know hit would be laik pullin' teeth an' wuss too , t' git Boomerang t' start back wid dem foosd t'ings until after he's had his dinner . 
Wouldn't it , Boomerang ? The mule waved his long ears as if in answer . 
Bless my soul , I believe he does understand ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Of course he do , put in the colored man . 
Well , remarked Tom , sadly , I guess there's no help for it . 
We'll have to walk home , unless you two want to wait until I can ride back with Eradicate , and come back on my motor cycle . 
Then I'll have to leave the cycle here , for I can't get it in the car . 
Bless my collar button ! cried Mr. Damon . 
It's like the puzzle of the fox , the goose and the bag of corn on the banks of a stream . 
I guess we'd better all walk . 
Hold on ! exclaimed Mr. Sharp . 
Is your mule good and strong , Eradicate ? Strong ? Why dish yeah mule could pull a house ober dat is when he's got a mind to . 
An' he'd do most anyt'ing now , 'ca'se he's anxious t' git home t' his dinnah ain't yo' all , Boomerang ? Once more the mule waved his ears , like signal flags . 
Then I have a proposition to make , went on the balloonist . 
Unhitch the mule from the load of wood , and hitch him to the auto . 
We've got some rope along , I noticed . 
Then the mule can pull us and the runabout home . 
Good idea ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Dat's de racket ! ejaculated Eradicate . 
I'll jest sequesterate dish year load ob wood side ob de road , an' hitch Boomerang to de auto . 
Tom said nothing for a few seconds . 
He gazed sadly at his auto , which he hoped would win the touring club's prize . 
It was a bitter pill for him to swallow . 
Towed by a mule ! he exclaimed , shaking his head , and smiling ruefully . 
Boomerang made no objection to the transfer . 
I hope no one sees us , thought Tom , but he was doomed to disappointment . 
When nearly home he heard an auto approaching , and in it were Andy Foger , Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey . 
The three cronies stared at the odd sight of Boomerang ambling along , with his great ears flapping , drawing Tom's speedy new car . 
Ha ! Ha ! laughed Andy . 
So that's the motive power he's going to use ! Look at him , fellows . 
I thought his new electric , that was going to beat my car , and win the prize , was to be two hundred horse power . 
Instead it's one mule power ! That's rich ! and Andy's chums joined in the laugh at poor Tom . 
The young imventor said nothing , for there was nothing he could say . 
In dignified silence he passed the car containing his enemies , they , meanwhile , jeering at him . 
Dat's all right , spoke Eradicate , sympathizing with his young employer . 
Maybe dey'll 'want a tow derselves some day , an' when dey does , I'll make Boomerang pull 'em in a ditch . 
But this was small comfort to Tom . 
He made up his mind , though , that he would demonstrate that his car could do all that he had claimed for it , and that very soon . 
CHAPTER XIV A GREAT RUN Boomerang did not belie the reputation Eradicate had given him as a beast of strength . 
Though the electric runabout was heavy , the mule managed to move it along the road at a fair speed , with the four occupants . 
Perhaps the animal knew that at the end of his journey a good feed awaited him . 
At any rate they were soon within sight of the Swift home . 
But our hero was not the kind of a lad who is disheartened by one failure , or even half a dozen . 
The humor of the situation appealed to him , and , as he turned the auto into the driveway , and noticed Boomerang's long ears waving to and fro , he laughed . 
He finished them in time to go for a little run in the car all alone on a secluded road late that afternoon . 
Tom returned , with eyes shining , and cheeks flushed with elation . 
Well , how did it go ? asked his father . 
Fine ! Better than I expected , responded his son enthusiastically . 
When it gets to running smoothly I'll pass anything on the road . 
Don't be too sure , cautioned Mr. Swift , but Tom only smiled . 
This was to enable him to know when to begin re charging it . 
When the current was all consumed it was necessary to store more in the battery . 
This could be done by attaching wires from a dynamo , or , in an emergency by tapping an electric light wire in the street . 
But as the battery would enable the car to run many miles on one charging , Tom did not think he would ever have to resort to the emergency charging apparatus . 
He had a new system for this , one that enabled him to do the work in much less than the usual time . 
Tom rode about for several hours , giving his car several severe tests in the way of going up hills , and speeding on the level . 
Why , Ned ! called Tom , what are you doing over here ? I might ask the same thing of you . 
Is that your new car ? It doesn't look very new . 
Yes , this is it . 
I haven't had a chance to paint and varnish it yet . 
But you ought to see it go . 
What are doing here , though ? I came over on some bank business . 
A customer here had some bonds he wanted to dispose of and I came for them . 
You see we're enlarging our business since the new bank started . 
Has it hurt your bank any ? Not yet , but Foger and his associates are trying hard to make us lose money . 
Say , did you ever see such a place as this ? I've got to wait two hours for a train back to Shopton . 
Why not ? Have they changed the timetable since I came over this morning ? No , but you can ride back with me . 
I'm going , and I'll show you what my new electric car can do . 
Good ! cried the young bank cashier . 
The two lads , seated in the front part of the auto , were soon moving down the hard highway . 
Here ! What's this ? cried Ned . 
We're going to hit it up in a few minutes , replied the young inventor , and I want to reduce the wind resistance . 
Oh , I thought maybe we were going through a bombardment . 
It's all right , go ahead , don't mind me . 
There was a celluloid window in the steel wind shield , and through this the lads could observe the road ahead of them . 
As they swung along it , the speed increasing , Ned saw an auto ahead of them . 
Whose car is that ? he asked . 
Don't know , replied Tom . 
We'll be up to it in about half a minute , though . 
Is that so ? asked Tom , his eyes flashing at the cheap wit of the man . 
Why we came out here to show you the way ! Do you want to race ? asked the man eagerly , too eagerly , Ned thought . 
I'll give you a brush , if you do , and a handicap into the bargain . 
We don't need it , replied the young inventor quickly . 
I'll wager fifty dollars I can beat you bad on this three mile stretch , went on the autoist . 
How about it ? I'll race you , but I don't bet , answered Tom , a bit stiffly . 
Oh , be a sport , urged the man . 
He had slowed down his machine , and was running even with the gasolene car now . 
He noticed that it was a new one , of six cylinders , and looked speedy . 
Perhaps he was foolish to pit his untried car against it . 
Yet he had confidence in his battery and motor . 
Well , we'll race for the fun of it then , went on the man . 
Do you want a handicap ? Tom shook his head again , and there came around his mouth a grim look . 
All right , assented the other . 
Only you're going to be beat badly . 
I never saw an electric car yet that could do anything except to crawl along . 
You're going to see one now , was all the retort Tom permitted himself . 
Here we go then ! cried the man , and he gave his gear handle a yank , and shoved over the sparking and gasolene levers . 
His car instantly shot ahead , and went chug chugging down the road in a cloud of dust . 
At the same moment Tom , in answer to a look from Ned , who feared his friend was going to be left behind , turned more power into the motor . 
The humming , purring sound increased and the electric car forged ahead . 
Can you catch him ? asked Ned . 
Watch , was all Tom said . 
The hum of the motor became a sort of whine , and the electric rapidly acquired speed . 
Well , you are coming on , aren't you ? he asked . 
Maybe you'll keep up now ! He shifted the gears , using a little more gasolene . 
For a moment his car opened a wide gap between it and Tom's , but the young inventor had only begun to race . 
Still louder purred the motor , and in a few minutes Tom was running on even terms with his competitor . 
The man looked annoyed , and tried , by the skilful use of gasolene and sparking levers , to leave Tom behind . 
But the electric held her own . 
I've got to go the limit I see , remarked the man at last , glancing sideways at the other car . 
I'll tell 'em you're coming , he added , though I must say your electric does better than any of its kind I ever came across . 
I'm not done yet , was the comment of our hero . 
But the man did not hear him , for he was yanking into place the lever that enabled him to run on direct drive for fourth speed . 
Forward shot his car , and , for perhaps a quarter of a mile it led . 
The racers were almost at the end of the three mile level stretch of road , and if Tom was going to win the impromptu contest it seemed high time he began . 
Can you catch him ? asked Ned anxiously . 
Watch , was his chum's reply . 
I haven't used my high speed gear yet . 
I'm afraid the fuses won't stand it , but here goes for a try , anyhow . 
He threw over a switch , changed a lever and then , having pushed into place the last gear , he grasped the steering wheel more firmly . 
Faster and faster went Tom's car . 
The young inventor was listening with critical ear to the song of the machinery . 
He wanted to learn if it was running sweet and true , for that is how a careful mechanic tests his apparatus . 
Foot by foot the distance between the two cars lessened . 
Now the electric was lapping the rear wheels of the gasolene machine , but the driver did not know it . 
His whole attention was on the road ahead of him . 
Half a mile more ! cried Ned , naming the distance which yet remained of the straight stretch . 
Can you do it , Tom ? His chum nodded . 
He shoved the controller handle over to the last notch , and then waited an anxious second . 
Would the fuse carry the extra load ? It seemed so , for there was a slight increase of power . 
An instant later Tom gave a sudden twist to the steering wheel . 
It was well that he did , for he was passing the gasolene car dangerously close . 
Then he was ahead of it , and in a second he was three lengths in advance . 
The electric shot around a curve in the road , winner of the impromptu race by an eighth of a mile . 
Well , asked Tom of his chum , as he slowed down , for the road now was not so good , did I do it ? You certainly did . 
Whew ! But we did scoot along ? Eighty miles an hour there one spell , went on the young inventor , glancing at a gauge . 
But I've got to do better than that to win the big race . 
CHAPTER XV ANDY FOGER'S BLACK EYE Around the bend came the six cylinder touring car . 
The driver , with a surprised look on his face , was slacking up . 
He ran his machine up alongside of Tom's . 
Say , he asked , in dazed tones , did you take a short cut , or anything like that to get ahead of me ? No , answered the youth . 
And you didn't jump me in the air ? No , was Tom's answer , smilingly given . 
Well , all I've got to say is that you've got a wonderful car there , Mr. er er He paused suggestively . 
Swift is my name , our hero answered . 
Thomas Swift , of Shopton . 
Ah , I've heard of you . 
My name is Layton Paul Layton . 
Let's see , you built an airship , didn't you ? I helped , Tom admitted modestly . 
Well , you beat me fair and square , and if I do say it myself I've got a fairly speedy car . 
Took two firsts at the Indianapolis meet last month . 
But you certainly scooted ahead of me . 
Where did you buy that electric , if I may ask ? I made it . 
I might have known , admitted the man . 
But are you going to put them on the market ? If you are I'd like to get one . 
I want the fastest car going , and you seem to have it . 
I hadn't thought of manufacturing them for sale , said the young inventor . 
If I do , I'll let you know . 
My ! I had no idea you could beat me , but you did fair and square . 
There was some more talk , and then Mr. Layton started on , after exacting from Tom a further promise to let him know if any electrics were to be made for sale . 
You certainly have a wonderful car , complimented Ned , as he and his chum took a short cut to Shopton . 
Well , I'm not quite satisfied with it , declared Tom . 
Why not ? Well , I've set a hundred miles an hour as my limit . 
I didn't make but eighty to day . 
I've got to have more speed if I go up against the crowd that will race for the touring club's prize . 
Can you make a hundred miles ? I think so . 
I've got to change my gears , though , and use heavier fuses . 
I was afraid every second that one of the fuses would melt , and leave me stranded . 
But they stood pretty well . 
That's what I want , and that's what I'm going to get , and the lad looked very determined . 
The red haired lad laughed at Tom's rough looking car , and said something to his parent , but Mr. Foger did not notice Tom . 
Not that this caused our hero any uneasiness , however . 
But , as he swung away from the bank , he saw , coming up the street a figure that instantly attracted his attention . 
It was that of Mr. Berg , and Tom at once recalled the night he had pursued the submarine agent , and torn loose his watch charm . 
Mr. Berg was evidently going to enter the new bank , for , at the sight of the former agent , Mr. Foger descended the steps , and went to meet him . 
Tom , however , had decided upon a plan of action . 
He steered his machine in toward the curb , ran up the steel wind shield , and called Mr. Berg ! Eh ? What's that ? asked the agent , in some surprise . 
Then , as he caught sight of Tom , and recognized him , he added I'm very busy now , my young friend . 
You'll have to excuse me . 
I won't detain you a moment , went on Tom , casually . 
I have something of yours that I wish to return to you . 
Something of mine ? Mr. Berg was evidently puzzled . 
He approached the electric car , in spite of the fact that Mr. Foger was calling him . 
Something of mine ? What is it ? This ! exclaimed Tom suddenly , extending the compass watch charm , which he always carried with him of late . 
That ! Where did you get that . 
I lost it Mr. Berg paused in some confusion . 
Hiding ? Tripped you ? Grabbed that off my chain stammered Mr. Berg . 
He had taken the charm up in his fingers , but now he quickly dropped it back into Tom's hand . 
I guess you're mistaken , he added quickly . 
I thought sure it was yours , said Tom , easily . 
Perhaps Mr. Foger will keep it in one of the safety deposit boxes of his bank , until the owner claims it , and he looked at the banker . 
What's that ? asked Andy's father . 
This watch charm which I grabbed off Mr. Berg's chain the night he was sneaking around our house , and crossed the electric wires , went on the lad . 
He doesn't know what he is saying ! exclaimed the former submarine boat agent . 
He's crazy ! Oh , am I ? thought Tom , with a grim look on his face . 
So they're getting chummy , mused Tom . 
I wonder if there's any connection there ? I must keep my eyes open . 
Berg is an unscrupulous man , and so is Andy's father , to say nothing of the red haired bully himself . 
He had nerve to deny that was his charm . 
Well , maybe I'll catch him some day . 
Tom spent a busy week making new adjustments to his electric car , changing the gear and providing for heavier fuses . 
He was planning for another trip on the road , as the time for the great race was drawing near , and he wanted the mechanism to be in perfect shape . 
As he came back to enter the car , he saw some one standing near it . 
Is that you , Ned ? he called . 
Come , take a spin . 
Hardly had he spoken than there sounded from the machine a whirr that told of the current being turned on . 
Don't do that ! cried Tom , knowing at once that it could not be Ned , who never meddled with the machinery . 
A blinding flash and a loud report followed , and Tom saw some one leap from his car , and try to run away . 
But the figure stumbled , and , a moment later the young inventor was upon him , grappling with him . 
Here ! Let me go ! cried a voice , and Tom uttered an exclamation of surprise . 
Andy Foger ! he cried . 
I've caught you ! You tried to damage my car ! Yes , and I'm hurt , too ! whined Andy . 
My father will sue you for damages if I die . 
No danger of that you're too mean , murmured Tom , as he maintained a tight grip on the bully . 
You let me go ! demanded Andy , squirming to get away . 
Wait until I see what damage you've done , retorted the young inventor . 
The worst , though , would be the blowing out of a fuse , for I had the gear disconnected . 
You wait a minute now . 
Maybe it's you who'll have to pay damages . 
You let me go ! fairly screamed Andy , and he aimed a blow at Tom . 
It caught our hero on the chest and Tom's fighting blood was up in an instant . 
He drew back his left hand , and delivered a blow that landed fairly on Andy's right eye . 
The bully staggered and went down in the dust . 
There ! cried Tom , righteously angry . 
I'll get square with you for this , he threatened . 
You can accept part of that as pay for what you did in the tar and feathering game , added Tom . 
Then , as Andy moved in front of one of the electric side lamps on the car , Tom uttered a whistle of surprise . 
For both of Andy's eyes were bruised and swollen , though Tom had only hit him once . 
Look at me ! cried the bully , more squint eyed than ever . 
Look at me ! You hit me in one eye , and that explosion hit me in the other ! My father will sue you for this . 
As he hurried off down the road Tom understood . 
Andy coming along , had seen Tom's car standing there , and , thinking to do some mischief , had climbed in , and turned on the power . 
Perhaps he hoped it would run into the roadside ditch and be smashed . 
But as the gear was out , turning on the electric current had a different effect . 
As the bully pulled the handle over too quickly , throwing almost the entire force of the battery into the wires at once , the load was too heavy for them . 
A safety fuse blew out , causing the flare and the explosion , and a piece of the soft lead like metal had hit the red haired lad in the eye . 
Tom's fist had completed the work on the other optic , and for several days thereafter Andy Foger remained in seclusion . 
When he did go out there were many embarrassing questions put to him , as to when he had had the fight . 
Andy didn't care to answer . 
As for Tom , it did not take long to put a new fuse in his car , and he greatly enjoyed his ride with Miss Nestor that night . 
Dad's up rather late , said Tom to himself . 
I wonder if he's studying over some new machine . 
Tom encountered Garret Jackson , the aged inventor who was going his rounds , seeing that everything was all right about the various shops . 
Anybody with my father , Garret ? asked the lad . 
I see he's still up . 
Yes , was the rather unexpected reply . 
Mr. Damon is with him . 
They've been in your father's room all the evening ever since you went away in the car . 
Anything the matter ? inquired the young inventor , a bit anxious , as he thought of the Happy Harry gang . 
Well , I don't know , and the engineer seemed puzzled . 
They called me in once to know if everything was all right outside , and to inquire if you were back . 
I saw , then , that they were busy figuring over something , but I didn't take much notice . 
Only I heard Mr. Damon say 'There's going to be trouble if we can't realize on those bonds , and then I came away . 
Is that all he said ? asked Tom . 
No , he said 'Bless my buttons , or something like that but he blesses so many things I didn't pay much attention . 
That's right , agreed the lad . 
But I wonder what the trouble is about ? I must go see . 
As he passed along the hall , out of which his father's combined study and library opened , the aged inventor came to the door . 
Is that you , Tom ? he asked . 
Come in here , if you haven't anything else to do . 
Tom needed but a single glance at the faces of his father and Mr. Damon to see that something was troubling the two . 
The table in front of them was littered with papers covered with rows of figures . 
What's the matter ? asked Tom . 
Well , I suppose I ought not to let it bother me , but it does , replied his father . 
Something wrong with your patents , Dad ? Has the crowd of bad men been bothering you again ? No , it isn't that . 
It's trouble at the bank , Tom . 
Has it been robbed again ? asked the lad quickly . 
No , it hasn't been robbed in just that way , put in Mr. Damon . 
I may say we are very vitally interested in it , for , since the withdrawal of Foger and his associates , your father and I have been elected directors . 
I didn't know that , remarked the lad . 
No , I didn't tell you , because you were so busy on your electric car , rejoined Mr. Swift . 
But Mr. Damon and I , being both large depositors , were asked to assume office , and , as I was not very busy on patent affairs , I consented . 
But what is the trouble ? inquired Tom . 
I'm coming to it , resumed Mr. Damon . 
Bless my check book , I'm coming to it ! You see we have lost several good customers , by reason of Foger opening the new bank . 
That wouldn't have mattered so much , as between your father and myself , and one or two others , we have enough capital to carry on the business of the bank . 
But there is a more serious matter . 
We hold a number of very good securities , but they are of a class hard to realize cash for , on short notice . 
In other words they are not active bonds , though they are issued by reliable concerns . 
Then , too , the bank has lost considerable money by not doing as much business as it formerly did . 
In short we don't know just what to do , Tom , and your father and I were discussing it , when you came in . 
Do you need more money ? asked Tom . 
I have some , that is my share from the submarine treasure , and some I have allowed to accumulate as royalties from my patents . 
It's about ten thousand dollars , and you're welcome to it . 
Thank you , Tom , spoke his father . 
We may use your cash , but we'll need a great deal more than that . 
But why ? asked the lad . 
If you have good bonds , can't you dispose of them , and get the money ? We could , Tom , yes , if we had time , replied Mr. Damon . 
But to throw the bonds on the market at short notice would mean that we would not get a good price for them . 
But why do it in a hurry ? Because there is need of hurry , responded Mr. Swift . 
That's it , joined in Mr. Damon . 
We have to have cash in a hurry , Tom , to meet pressing demands , and we don't just see our way clear to get it . 
I am trying to raise it on some private securities I own , but I can't get an answer within several days . 
Meanwhile the bank may fail , because of lack of funds . 
Of course no one would lose anything , ultimately , as we could go into the hands of a receiver , and , eventually pay dollar for dollar . 
Your father and I , and some of the other directors , might lose a little , but the depositors would not . 
But your father and I don't like the idea of failing . 
It would give Foger too good a chance to crow over us . 
And you need cash in a hurry , went on Tom . 
How much ? Fifty thousand dollars at least , replied Mr. Damon . 
And if you don't get it ? The eccentric man shrugged his shoulders . 
Well , remarked Mr. Swift musingly , I don't see that we need worry you about it , Tom . 
Perhaps Mr. Swift was interrupted by a ring at the front door . 
The three looked at each other . 
It was late for a caller , and Mrs. Baggert had gone to bed . 
I'll answer it , volunteered Tom . 
He switched on the electric light in the hall , and opened the door . 
He was confronted by Mr. Pendergast , the president of the bank . 
Is your father in ? asked Mr. Pendergast , and he seemed to be much agitated . 
Yes , he is , replied the lad . 
Come this way , please . 
I want to see him on important business , went on the president , as he followed the young inventor . 
I'm afraid I have bad news for him and Mr. Damon . 
Bad news , Tom , bad news , and the aged banker's voice trembled . 
Tom , with a chill of apprehension seeming to clutch his heart , threw open the library door . 
CHAPTER XVII A RUN ON THE BANK Why , Mr. Pendergast ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , rising quickly as Tom ushered in the aged president . 
Whatever is the matter ? You here at this hour ? Bless my trial balance ! Is anything wrong ? I'm afraid there is , answered the bank head . 
I have just received word which made it necessary for me to see you both at once . 
I'm glad you're here , Mr. Damon . 
I have bad news for you . 
As soon as we open our doors in the morning , there will be a run on the bank . 
A run on the bank ? repeated Mr. Swift . 
The moment we begin business in the morning , went on Mr. Pendergast . 
Bless my soul , then don't begin business ! cried Mr. Damon . 
We must , insisted Mr. Pendergast . 
To keep the doors closed would be a confession at once that we have failed . 
No , it is better to open them , and stand the run as long as we can . 
When we have exhausted our cash he paused . 
Well ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Then we'll fail that's all . 
But we mustn't let the bank fail ! cried Mr. Swift . 
I am willing to put some of my personal fortune into the bank capital in order to save it . 
So is my son here . 
That's right , chimed in Tom heartily . 
I'm not going to let Andy Foger get ahead of us nor his father either . 
I'll help to the limit of my ability , added Mr. Damon . 
I appreciate all that , continued the president . 
But the unfortunate part of it is that we need cash . 
You gentlemen , like myself , probably , have your money tied up in stocks and bonds . 
It is hard to get cash quickly , and we must have cash as soon as we open in the morning , to pay the depositors who will come flocking to the doors . 
We must prepare for a run on the bank . 
How do you know there will be a run ? asked the young inventor . 
I received word this evening , just before I came here , replied Mr. Pendergast . 
A poor widow , who has a small amount in the bank , called on me and said she had been advised to withdraw all her cash . 
She said she preferred to see me about it first , as she did not like to lose her interest . 
Did she say who had thus warned her ? inquired Mr. Swift . 
She did , was the reply , and that shows me that there is a conspiracy on foot to ruin our bank . 
She stated that Mr. Foger had told her our institution was unsound . 
Mr. Foger ! cried Mr. Damon . 
So this is one of his tricks to bolster up his new bank ! He hopes the people who withdraw their money from our bank will deposit with him . 
He's a scoundrel , and if it's possible I'm going to sue him for damages after this thing is over . 
Did he warn the others ? inquired the aged inventor . 
Not all of them , answered the president . 
Some received letters from a man signing himself Addison Berg , warning them that our bank , was likely to fail any day . 
Addison Berg ! exclaimed Tom . 
Very likely Foger is working with Berg , admitted Mr. Damon . 
We will attend to them later . 
The question is , what can we do to save the bank ? Get cash , and plenty of it , advised Mr. Pendergast . 
Better go to bed , Tom , advised his father . 
You can't help us any , and we have many details to go over . 
He awoke to find the bedclothes in a lump on his chest , and , removing them , fell into a deep slumber . 
They told me to tell you they were at the bank , said the housekeeper . 
Did Mr. Pendergast stay all night ? inquired Tom . 
I heard some one go away about two o'clock this morning , replied the housekeeper . 
I don't know who it was . 
They must have had a long session , thought Tom , as he began on his bacon , eggs and coffee . 
I'll take a run down to the bank in my electric in a little while . 
The car was still in rather crude shape , outwardly , but the mechanism was now almost perfect . 
Tom charged the batteries well before starting put . 
There was quite a crowd about it , and more persons were constantly arriving to swell the throng . 
What's the matter ? asked Tom , of one of the few police officers of which Shopton boasted , though the lad did not need to be told . 
Run on the bank , was the brief answer . 
Tom felt a pang of disappointment . 
Somehow , he had hoped that his father and his friends might have been able to stave off ruin . 
As he approached nearer Tom was made aware that the crowd was in an ugly mood . 
Why don't they open the doors and give us our money ? cried one excited woman . 
It's ours ! I worked hard for mine , an' now they want to keep it from us . 
I wish I'd put it in the new bank . 
Yes , that's the best place , added another . 
That Mr. Foger has lots of money . 
I wish I could find a way to beat them at their own game . 
As the minutes passed , and the bank was not opened , the ugly temper of the crowd increased . 
The few police could do nothing with the mob , and several , bolder than the rest , advocated battering down the doors . 
Some went up the steps and began to pound on the portals . 
Tom looked for a sight of his father or Mr. Damon , but could not see either . 
It was not the regular hour for opening the bank , but when the police reminded the people of this they only laughed . 
I guess they ain't going to open anyhow ! shouted a man . 
They've got our money , and they're going to keep it . 
What difference is an hour , anyway ? Yes , if they have the money , why don't they open , and not wait until ten o'clock ? cried another . 
I've got a hundred and five dollars in there , and I want it ! More excited persons were arriving every minute . 
The crowd surged this way , and that . 
Many looked anxiously at the clock in the tower of the town hall . 
The gilded hands pointed to a few minutes of ten . 
Would the bank open its doors when the hour boomed out ? Many were anxiously asking this question . 
Tom sat in his electric car , near the front of the bank . 
The interest of the crowd , which under ordinary circumstances would have been centered in the queer vehicle , was not drawn toward it . 
The people were all thinking of their money . 
Suddenly one of the two doors of the bank slowly opened . 
There was a yell from the crowd , and a rush to get in . 
But the police managed to hold the leaders back , and then Tom saw that it was Ned Newton , who stood in the partly opened portal . 
He held up his hand to indicate silence , and a hush fell over the mob . 
The bank is open for business , Ned announced , but there must be no rush . 
The building is not large enough to accommodate you all . 
If you form a line , you will be admitted in turn . 
The bank hopes to pay you all . 
Hopes ! cried a woman scornfully . 
We can't eat hopes , young man , nor yet pay the rent with it . 
Hopes indeed ! But Ned had said all he cared to , and , with rather a white face , he went back inside . 
The one door remained open and , with a policeman on either side , a line of anxious depositors was slowly formed . 
Tom watched them crowding and surging forward , all eager to be first to get their cash out , lest there be not enough for all . 
As he watched , the young inventor was aware that some was signaling to him from the big window of the bank . 
Wondering what was wanted , Tom slowly ran his machine down the side street , and up the alley . 
No one paid any attention to him . 
A porter admitted the lad , and he made his way to the private offices , where he knew his father and Mr. Damon would be . 
In the corridors he could hear the murmur of the throng and the chink of money , as the tellers paid it out . 
Well , Tom , this is bad business , remarked Mr. Swift , as he saw his son . 
The lad noticed that Mr. Damon was in the telephone booth . 
Yes , Dad , admitted Tom . 
It's a run , all right . 
What are you going to do ? The best we can . 
Pay out all the cash we have , and hope that before that time , the people will come to their senses . 
The bank is all right if they would only wait . 
But I'm afraid they won't and , after we pay out all the cash we have , we'll have to close the doors . 
Then there's sure to be an unpleasant scene , and maybe some of the more hot headed ones will advocate violence . 
We have given orders to the tellers to pay out as slowly as possible , so as to enable us to gain some time . 
And all you need is money is that it , Dad ? That's it , Tom , but we have exhausted every possibility . 
Mr. Damon is trying a forlorn hope now , but , even if he is successful Before Mr. Swift had ceased speaking , Mr. Damon fairly burst from the telephone booth . 
I've got it ! I've got it ! he cried . 
What ? asked Mr. Swift and Tom in the same breath . 
The cash , or , what's just as good , the promise of it . 
Hurrah ! We're all right now . 
Bless my check book ! The Clayton National Bank , remarked Mr. Swift , and his voice was hopeless . 
It's forty miles away , Mr. Damon , and no railroad around here runs anywhere near it . 
No one could get there and back with the cash to day , in time to save us from ruin . 
It's impossible ! Our last chance is gone . 
How far did you say it was , Dad ? asked Tom quickly . 
Forty miles there , over forty , I guess , and not very good roads . 
We would need to have the cash here before three o'clock to be of any service to us . 
No , it's out of the question . 
The bank will have to fail ! No ! cried the young inventor , and his voice rang out through the room . 
I'll get the cash for you ! How ? gasped Mr. Damon . 
You can't get there and back in time ? Yes , I can ! cried Tom . 
I'll get the sixty thousand dollars for you ! For a moment there was silence . 
Then Mr. Damon cried Good ! And I'll go with you and deliver the securities to Mr. Chase . 
Do you think you can do it , Tom Swift ? I'm sure of it , as far as my electric car is concerned , replied the young inventor . 
If we get the cash I'll have it back here on time . 
The runabout is all ready for a fast trip . 
Then don't lose any time , Tom , advised his father . 
Yes , added Mr. Damon . 
I've got the securities in my valise , and we can bring the cash back in the same satchel . 
The eccentric character caught up his valise , and started from the room . 
Now , my son , be careful , advised his father . 
You know the need of haste , but don't take unnecessary risks . 
You'd better go out the back way , as the crowd is easily excited . 
Mr. Swift clasped his son's hand in a firm pressure , and the bank president nervously bade the lad good by . 
Then , slipping out of the bank , by the rear entrance , the porter closing the door after them , Tom and Mr. Damon took their places in the electric machine . 
Just imagine you're racing for that three thousand dollar prize , offered by the Touring Club of America , Tom , observed Mr. Damon , as he deposited the valise at his feet . 
I don't have to do that , replied the youth . 
I'm trying for a bigger prize than that . 
I want to save the bank , and defeat the schemes of the Fogers father and son . 
Tom turned on the power , and the machine rolled out on the main street . 
The young inventor looked , and saw Andy and his father on the steps of the new institution . 
At the sight of the electric car , speeding along , Andy turned and spoke to his parent . 
What he said seemed to impress Mr. Foger , for he started , and looked more intently at Tom and Mr. Damon . 
Then , as Tom watched , he saw the two excitedly conversing , and a moment later Andy ran off in the direction in which Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey lived . 
I wonder if he's up to any tricks ? thought Tom , as he turned on more power . 
Well , if he is , I'll soon be where he can't reach me . 
But once the open country was reached Tom opened her up full , and the song the motor sung was one of power . 
The vehicle quickly gathered headway and was soon fairly whizzing along . 
If we keep this up we'll be there and back in good time , remarked Mr. Damon . 
Yes , but we can't do it , replied his companion . 
The road to Clayton is a poor one , and we'll soon be on it . 
Then we'll have to go slow . 
But I'll make all the time I can until then . 
So , for several miles more they crept along , at times having to reduce to almost a walking pace , because of bad roads . 
Mr. Damon looked at his watch almost every other minute . 
Eleven o'clock , he remarked , as they passed a milestone , and we're not half way there . 
Bless my gizzard , but I'm afraid we won't make it , Tom . 
We left about ten , and we ought to be back by two o'clock to do any good . 
That's four hours , and it will take some time to transfer the securities , and get the cash . 
I know it , answered Tom , and I'm going to count every minute . 
With eager eyes he watched every inch of the road , to steer to the best advantage . 
And there was danger , not infrequently , for the road was up and down hill , over frail bridges , and along steep cliffs . 
It was no pleasure tour they were on . 
When a little over half the distance had been made they came to a better road , and Tom was able to use full speed ahead . 
Then the electric went so fast that , had it not been for the steel wind shield in front , Mr. Damon , at any rate , would have been short of breath . 
This is going some ! he cried to Tom . 
The lad nodded grimly , and shoved the controller handle over to the last notch . 
Then came a bad stretch and they had to slow down again . 
As they were about out of it there came a little flash of fire and the motor stopped . 
Bless my overshoes ! cried Mr. Damon . 
What's that a fuse blown out ? No , replied Tom , with a puzzled air . 
But something has gone wrong . 
Hastily he got out , and made an examination . 
He found it was only one of the unimportant wires which had short circuited , and it was soon adjusted . 
But they had lost five precious minutes . 
Tom tried to make up for lost time , but came to a hill a little later , and this reduced their speed . 
Do you think we can make it before twelve ? asked Mr. Damon anxiously . 
We've got to , if we're to get back before three , Tom . 
I'll try , was the calm answer , and Tom's jaw was shut still more tightly . 
There's Clayton ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Ten minutes later they were rolling through the main street , and as they stopped in front of the bank , the noon whistles blew shrill and noisily . 
You did it , Tom ! cried Mr. Damon , springing out with the valise of securities . 
Now be ready for the return trip . 
I'll be with you as soon as possible . 
He went up the bank steps three at a time , like some boy instead of an elderly man . 
Tom looked after him for a second and then got down to oil up his car , and make some adjustments that had rattled loose from the rough road . 
Unmindful of the curious throng that gathered he crawled under the machine with his oil can . 
He had finished his work , and was back in his seat , ready to start , but Mr. Damon had not reappeared . 
It's taking him a good while to get that cash , thought Tom . 
Maybe the securities were no good . 
But , a few minutes later , Mr. Damon came hurrying from the bank . 
The valise he carried seemed much heavier than when he went in . 
It's all right , Tom , he said . 
Now for the trip home , and I hope we don't have any accidents . 
It took longer than I thought to check over the bonds and receipt for them . 
But I've got the cash . 
Oh , no , he was very nice about it , replied Mr. Damon . 
He said he hoped our bank would pull through . 
Said if we needed more cash we could have it . 
It was nearly one o'clock , and they had the worst part of the journey yet to go . 
Thirty miles of stiff roads lay between them and Shopton , the last five and the first five being fairly good , with , here and there , soft spots . 
Up hill and down went the electric auto . 
At every opportunity Tom let out all the speed he could draw from the motor , but there were many times when he had to slow down . 
Bless my soul ! That's a fuse , I'm sure of it ! cried Mr. Damon . 
No , announced Tom , as he quickly shut off the power . 
One of the inner tubes of the tire has been pierced . 
I was afraid of that tube . 
What have you got to do put on a new tire ? asked Mr. Damon . 
No , I'm going to put on a new wheel . 
I carry two spare ones with tires all ready inflated . 
When the new wheel was in place ten minutes had been lost . 
Hold on now , I'm going to speed her ! cried Tom , when they were once more in their seats , and speed the machine he did . 
The road was rough , but despite this the lad turned on almost full power . 
As for the young inventor his grasp of the steering wheel , and the manner in which he could brace himself against the foot pedals , held him more firmly in place . 
On and on they rushed , covering mile after mile , and approaching Shopton where so much depended on their arrival . 
He saw that his machine would stand hard knocks , and the way the battery and motor was behaving was a joy to him . 
He knew that if he could make that eighty mile run in safety he stood a good chance of winning the prize , for no harder test could have been devised . 
But the race was still far from won . 
There was a particularly unsafe stretch of road yet to be covered , and then would come a smooth highway into Shopton . 
Ten miles more , observed Mr Damon , snapping shut his big gold watch . 
Ten miles more , and it's a quarter of two now . 
It seems worse than when we passed over it this morning . 
As he spoke the auto began to slow up , for the wheels had struck some heavy sand , and it was necessary to reduce the current . 
Tom turned back the controller handle , but watched with eager eyes for a sign that the roadbed was harder , so that he could increase speed . 
What's the matter something gone wrong ? asked his companion . 
There , just ahead of them , was a big load of hay , and it was evident that the driver , was in no particular hurry . 
We can't pass that without getting in over . 
our hubs ! cried Tom . 
Bless my check book ! cried Mr. Damon . 
He put on a little more speed , and was soon close up behind the load of hay , ringing his electric bell as a warning . 
You automobile fellers is too gol hanged smart , racin' along th' roads . 
I've got just as good a right here as you fellers have , by heck ! The driver did not show himself . 
We know that , responded Tom , as quickly as he could , for he did not want to anger the man . 
But our machine is so heavy that if we turn into the ditch I'm afraid we'll be mired . 
Huh ! So'll I , was the retort from the unseen driver . 
Think I want t' spile my load of hay ? But you have wide tires on , and you wouldn't sink in far , answered the young inventor . 
Besides , it's very necessary that we get past . 
A great deal depends on our speed . 
So it does on mine , was the reply . 
Ef I git t' market late I'll have t' stay all night , an' spend money on a hotel bill . 
I'll pay it ! I'll pay your bill if you'll only pull out ! cried Mr. Damon . 
I'll give you a hundred dollars He suddenly ceased speaking . 
From the bushes along the road sprang several ragged , masked figures . 
Discretion was very plainly the better part of valor . 
Tom had shut off the current . 
The load of hay continued on ahead . 
Tom thought perhaps the driver of it might have been in collusion with the thieves , to cause the auto to slow up . 
What do you want with us ? asked the young inventor , trying to speak calmly , but finding it a hard task , with a revolver pointed at him . 
You know what we want , exclaimed the leader , in a low voice . 
We want that cash you got from the bank , and we're going to have it ! Come , now , shell out ! and he advanced toward the automobile . 
CHAPTER XX ON TIME Close around the electric auto crowded the members of the hold up gang . 
Their eyes seemed to glare through the holes in their black masks . 
Instantly Tom thought of the other occasion when he was halted by masked figures . 
Could these , by any possibility , be the same individuals ? Was this a trick of Andy Foger and his cronies ? Tom tried to pierce through the disguises . 
Clearly the persons were men not boys and they wore the ragged clothes of tramps . 
Also , there was an air of dogged determination about them . 
What right have you to stop us in this way ? Don't you know that every minute counts ? We are in a hurry . 
I know it , spoke the leading masked figure with a laugh . 
I know you have considerable money in that shebang , and I know what you hope to do with it , prevent the run on the Shopton National Bank . 
Isn't there anything we can do ? Can't you give them an electric shock , Tom ? I'm afraid not . 
If it wasn't for that hay wagon we could turn on the current and make a run for it . 
But we'd only go into the ditch if we tried to pass now . 
The load of hay was down the road , but as Tom looked he noticed a curious thing . 
It seemed to be nearer than it was when the attack of the masked men came . 
The wagon actually seemed to have backed up . 
Once more the thought came to the lad that possibly the load of fodder might be one of the factors on which the thieves counted . 
They might have used it to make the auto halt , and the man , or men , on it were probably in collusion with the footpads . 
There was no doubt about it , the load of hay was coming nearer , backing up instead of moving away . 
He gave a swift glance at the robbers . 
They had not appeared to notice this , or , if they had , they gave no sign . 
Then we can't do anything , murmured Mr. Damon . 
I don't see that we can , replied the young inventor in a low voice . 
And the money we worked so hard to get won't do the bank any good , and Mr. Damon sighed . 
It's tough luck , agreed Tom . 
Come now , fork over that cash ! called the leader , advancing still closer . 
None of that talk between you there . 
If you think you can work some trick on us you're mistaken . 
We're desperate men , and we're well armed . 
The first show of resistance you make , and we shoot get that , fellows ? he added to his followers , and they nodded grimly . 
Well , remarked Mr. Damon with an air of submission , I only want to warn you that you are acting illegally , and that you are perpetrating a desperate crime . 
Oh , we know that all right , answered one of the men , and Tom gave a start . 
He was sure he had heard that voice before . 
He tried to remember it tried to penetrate the disguise but he could not . 
I'll give you ten seconds more to hand over that bag of money , went on the leader . 
If you don't , we'll take it and some of you may get hurt in the process . 
There seemed nothing else to do . 
With a white face , but with anger showing in his eyes Mr. Damon reached down to get the valise . 
Tom had retained his grip of the steering wheel , and the starting lever . 
He hoped , at the last minute , he might see a chance to dash away , and escape , but that load of hay was in the path . 
He noted that it was now quite near , but the thieves paid no attention to it . 
There was nothing to do save to hand over the cash , it seemed . 
Mr. Damon had the bag raised from the car , and the leader of the thieves was reaching up for it , when there came a sudden interruption . 
From the load of hay there sounded a fusillade of pistol shots , cracking out with viciousness . 
This was instantly followed by the appearance of three men who came running from around the load of hay , down the road toward the thieves . 
The thieves turned as one man , and glanced at the relief so unexpectedly approaching . 
The underbrush closed after them and they were hidden from sight . 
On came the three farmers , waving their effective weapons , the pistol shots still ringing out from the load of hay . 
Tom could not understand it , and could see no one firing could detect no smoke . 
Are they gone ? Did they rob ye ? asked the foremost of the trio , a burly , grizzled farmer . 
The pistol shots rang out until one of the men called That'll do , Bub ! We've skeered 'em like Mrs. Zenoby's pet cat ! You needn't crack that whip any more . 
Was that a whip ? That's what it was , explained the leading farmer . 
It's all right , Bub , his uncle assured him . 
But I don't exactly understand , spoke Mr. Damon . 
I thought you were in league with those thieves , stopping us as you did with your big load . 
So did I , admitted Tom . 
Ha ! Ha ! laughed the farmer . 
That's a pretty good joke . 
My name's Lyon , Jethro Lyon , of Salina Township , an' these is my two sons , Ade and Burt . 
You see we're on our way to Shopton , an' my nephew , Bub , he went along . 
We thought you was some of them sassy automobile fellers at first when you hollered to us you wanted to pass . 
Then when we looked back , we seen them burglars goin' t' rob you , at least that's what we suspicioned , and he paused suggestively . 
That was it , Tom said . 
Wa'al , when we seen that , we held a sort of consultation on thet load of hay , where they couldn't see us . 
It was so big you know , he needlessly explained . 
Wa'al , we calcalated we could help you , so I jest quietly backed up , until we was near enough . 
I told Bub to take the long whip , an' crack it for all he was wuth , so's it would sound like reinforcements approachin' with guns , an' he done it . 
He certainly done it , added Burt . 
Wa'al , resumed Mr. Lyon , then me an my sons we jest slipped down off the front seat , an' come a runnin' with our pitchforks . 
I reckoned them burglars would run when they see us an' heard us , an' they done so . 
Yep , they done so , added Ade , like an echo . 
I can't tell you how much obliged we are to you , said Mr. Damon . 
We have sixty thousand dollars in this valise , and they would have had it in another minute , and the bank would have failed . 
Sixty thousand dollars ! gasped Mr. Lyon , and his sons and nephew echoed the words . 
An' you've got t' git t' Shopton before three o'clock with thet cash ? asked Mr. Lyon . 
That's what we hoped to do , replied Tom but I'm afraid we won't now . 
It's half past two , and Don't say another word , interrupted Mr. Lyon . 
I know what ye mean . 
My hay's in the road . 
But don't let that worry ye none . 
You've got t' hustle if ye git t' Shopton by three o'clock . 
I can do it with a clear road , declared Tom , confidently . 
Then ye'll have th' clear road , Mr. Lyon assured him . 
Come boys , let's git th' hay t' one side . 
The farmers pulled into the ditch . 
The young inventor and his companion waved a grateful farewell to them as they fairly tore past , for Tom had turned on almost the full current . 
Do you suppose that was the Happy Harry gang , or some members of it who were not captured and sent to jail ? asked Mr. Damon . 
I don't believe so , answered the lad , shaking his head . 
Maybe they didn't really want to rob us . 
Perhaps they only wanted to delay us so we wouldn't get to the bank on time . 
Bless my top knot , you may be right ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Further conversation became difficult , as they struck a rough part of the road , where the vehicle swayed and jolted to an alarming degree . 
But Tom never slackened pace . 
On and on they rushed , Mr. Damon frequently looking at his watch . 
We've got twenty minutes left , he remarked as they came out on the smooth stretch of road , that led directly into Shopton . 
Then Tom turned all the reserve power into the motor . 
Now they were in the town , now speeding down the street leading to the bank . 
One or two policemen shouted after them , for they were violating the speed laws , but it was no time to stop for that . 
On and on they dashed . 
They came in sight of the bank . 
A long line of persons was still in front . 
They seemed more excited than in the morning , for the hour of three was approaching , and they feared the bank would close its doors , never to open them again . 
The run is still on , observed Mr. Damon . 
But it will soon be over , predicted Tom . 
They're got the cash ! a man cried . 
I don't draw out my deposit . 
I want to see the cash before I'll believe it , said another . 
Tom slowed up to make the turn into the alley . 
As he did so he glanced across the street to the new bank . 
In the window stood Andy Foger and his father . 
There was a look of surprise on their faces as they saw the arrival of the powerful car , and , Tom fancied , also a look of chagrin . 
Up the alley went the car , police keeping the crowd from following . 
The porter was at the door . 
So , also , was Mr. Pendergast and Mr. Swift , while some of the other officers were grouped behind them . 
Did you get the money ? gasped the president . 
We did , answered Tom . 
It was opened , and the bundles of bills turned out on a table . 
Perhaps you'd better make an announcement to the crowd , Mr. Pendergast , suggested Mr. Swift . 
Tell them we now have cash enough to meet all demands , and that the bank will be kept open until every one is paid . 
I will , agreed the aged president . 
His announcement was received with cheers , and had exactly the effect the inventor hoped it would . 
Many , learning that the bank was safe , and that they could have their money whenever they wanted it , concluded not to withdraw it , thus saving the interest . 
Scores in the waiting crowd turned out of line and went home . 
Their example was contagious , and , though many still remained to get their deposits , the run was broken . 
Only part of the sixty thousand dollars Tom and Mr. Damon had brought through after a race with time , was needed . 
But had it not been for the moral effect of the cash arriving as it did , the bank would have failed . 
You have a great car , Tom Swift , complimented Mr. Pendergast , when the excitement had somewhat cooled down , and the story of the hold up had been told . 
I think so myself , agreed the young inventor modestly . 
I must get ready for the races now . 
And as for those farmers , I think I'll send them a reward , went on the president . 
They deserve something for the trouble they had with the load of hay . 
I certainly shall send them a reward , which he did , and a substantial one , too . 
Of course the hold up was at once reported to the police after the run had quieted down , but Chief Simonson surprised Tom by saying that he had expected it . 
The gang that held you up , said the police officer , was one that escaped from a jail , about twenty miles away . 
The unfortunate part of it was that the tip I got was to the effect that the hold up would take place just outside of Clayton . 
I telephoned to the police there , just after you left , and they said they'd send out a posse . 
But the gang changed their plans and held you up near here , where I wasn't expecting it . 
But I'll get 'em yet . 
Chief Simonson did not arrest the gang , but some other police officers did , and they were taken back to jail . 
When Tom reached home that night he found some mail from the officials of the Touring Club of America . 
It was to the effect that arrangements for the big contest had been completed , and that contesting cars must be on the ground by September first . 
That gives me two weeks yet , thought our hero . 
He read further of the regulations covering the race . 
Each car must proceed from the home town or city of the owner , and go to the track under its own power . 
This was a new regulation , it was stated , and was adopted to better develop the industry of building electric autos . 
Therefore the race was to be one for distance five hundred miles , on the new Long Island track , and the car first covering that distance would win . 
Cars were allowed to change their batteries as often as they needed to , but all time lost would count against them . 
There were other rules and regulations of minor importance . 
Well , remarked Tom , as he read through the circulars , I must get my car in shape . 
That will comply with the rules , I think . 
But who will I get to go with me ? I suppose Mr. Damon or Mr. Sharp will be willing . 
The next two weeks were busy ones for Tom . 
He worked night and day over his car , getting it in shape for the big event . 
The young inventor made some changes in his battery , and also adopted a new gear , which would give greater speed . 
Mr. Damon would ride in front with Tom on the cross country trip , and occasionally relieve him at steering , or would help to manage the electrical connections . 
Spare fuses , extra parts , wires and different things he thought he might need , the young inventor stored in his car . 
He also found means to install a small additional storage battery , to give added power in case of emergency . 
Well , Tom , I certainly hope you win that race , remarked Mrs. Baggert , as she stood in the doorway , waving a farewell . 
I'll do it for my own , too , agreed Tom . 
There was a low hum from the motor and the electric started off . 
Would it return a winner or loser of the big race ? CHAPTER XXII IN A DITCH Through the streets of Shopton went Tom Swift and his friends . 
News of the big contest the young inventor was about to take part in , had circulated around town , and there were not wanting many to wish him good luck . 
The lad responded smilingly to the farewells he received . 
As they passed the bank , Ned Newton came out on the steps . 
Wish I was going along , he called . 
So do I , replied Tom . 
Stronger and better than ever , was Ned's answer , as he came to the curb , where Tom slowed up . 
I hear , he added in a whisper , that the other fellows are going out of business Foger and his crowd you know . 
They loaned money on unsecured notes to make a good showing , and now they can't get it back But we're all right . 
Hope you win the race . 
So do I. What will a certain person do while you're away ? went on Ned , with a wink . 
I don't know what you mean , replied Tom , trying not to blush . 
Do you mean my dad or Mrs. Baggert ? Neither , you old hypocrite you ! I meant Miss Mary Nestor . 
Oh , hadn't you heard ? inquired Tom innocently . 
She is going to Long Island to visit some friends , and she'll be at the race . 
You lucky dog , murmured Ned with a laugh , as he went into the bank . 
Once more the electric auto started off , and was soon on the quiet country road , where Tom speeded it up moderately . 
The machine was running smoothly , and seemed able to make a long race against time The travelers ate lunch that day at Pendleton , a town some distance from Shopton . 
They had covered a substantial part of their trip . 
After a brief rest they started on again . 
Tom had planned to spend two days and one night on the road , hoping to be able to reach the shore cottage on the evening of the second day . 
There , after recharging the battery , he would spend a night , or two , and proceed to the track , ready for the race . 
They found the roads fairly good , with bad stretches here and there , which made it necessary for them to slow down . 
This delayed them , and they found the shadows lengthening , and darkness approaching , when they were still several miles from Burgfield , where they intended to sleep . 
Will it be all right to travel at night ? asked Mr. Damon , a bit nervously . 
Why , are you thinking of hold up men ? inquired Mr. Sharp . 
No , but I was wondering about the condition of the roads , replied the eccentric man . 
We don't want to run into a rock , or collide with something . 
Though it was not dark enough to illuminate the highway to the best advantage , the powerful gleam shone dazzlingly in front of the swiftly moving auto . 
I guess that will show up every pebble in the road , commented the balloonist . 
Tom turned off the light , as , until it was darker , he could see to better advantage unaided by it . 
He slowed down the speed somewhat , but was still going at a good rate . 
There's a bridge somewhere about here , remarked the lad , when they had gone on a mile further . 
I remember seeing it on my road map . 
It's not very strong , and we'll have to run slow over it . 
Bless my gizzard , I hope we don't go through it ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Is your car very heavy , Tom ? Not heavy enough to break the bridge . 
Ah , there it is . 
Guess I'll turn on the light so we can see what we're doing . 
Just ahead of them loomed up the super structure of a bridge , and Tom turned the searchlight switch . 
There was a lurch , and the front wheels sank down . 
Look out ! We're going into the river ! yelled Mr. Damon . 
Tom jammed on the brakes and shut off the current . 
The auto came to a sudden stop . 
The young inventor turned the searchlight downward , to illuminate the ground directly in front of the car . 
Are we in the river ? asked Mr. Sharp . 
No , replied Tom in great chagrin . 
We're in a muddy ditch . 
One at the side of the road . 
Wheels in over the hubs ! There should have been a guard rail here . 
We're stuck for fair ! CHAPTER XXIII THE POWER GONE Bless my overshoes ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Stuck in the mud , eh ? Hard and fast , added Tom , in disgust . 
What's to be done ? inquired Mr. Sharp . 
I should say we'll have to stay here until daylight , and wait for some other auto to come along and pull us out , was Mr. Damon's opinion . 
It's might unpleasant , too , for there doesn't seem to be any place around here where we can spend the night in any kind of comfort . 
If we had the submarine or the airship , now , it wouldn't so much matter . 
No , and this won't matter a great deal , remarked the young inventor quickly . 
We'll soon be out of this , but it will be hard work . 
What do you mean ? asked Mr. Sharp . 
I mean that we've got to pull ourselves out of this mud hole , explained the lad , as he prepared to descend . 
I was afraid something like this would happen , so I came prepared for it . 
I've got ropes and pulleys with me , in the car . 
We'll fasten the rope to the machine , attach one pulley to the bridge , another to the car , and I guess we can get out of the mud . 
Well , I must say you looked pretty far ahead , complimented Mr. Damon . 
From a box under the tonneau Tom took out a thin but strong rope and two compound pulleys , which would enable considerable force to be applied . 
Mr. Sharp detached one of the powerful oil lamps , and the three travelers took a look at the auto . 
It was indeed deep in the mud and it seemed like a hopeless task to try to get it out unaided . 
But Tom insisted that they could do it , and the rope was soon attached , the hook of one pulley being slipped around one of the braces of the bridge . 
Now , all together ! cried the lad , as he and his friends grasped the long rope . 
They gave a great heave . 
At first it seemed like pulling on a stone wall . 
The rope strained and the pulleys creaked . 
I guess we will pull the bridge over ! gasped Mr. Sharp . 
Something's got to give way ! puffed Tom . 
Now , once more ! All together ! Suddenly they felt the rope moving . 
In a few minutes it was ready to proceed again . 
They had an early breakfast , and , as Tom went out to the barn to look at his car , he saw it surrounded by a curious throng of men and boys . 
One of the boys was turning some of the handles and levers . 
Here ! Quit that ! yelled Tom , and the meddlesome lad leaped down in fright . 
Do you want to start the car and have it smash into something ? demanded the young inventor . 
Aw , nothin' happened , retorted the lad . 
I pulled every handle on it , an' it didn't move . 
Good reason , murmured Tom , for he had taken the precaution to remove a connecting plug , without which the machine could not be started . 
The three were soon under way again , and covered many miles over the fine country roads , the weather conditions being delightful . 
On inquiry they found that by taking an infrequently used highway , they could save several miles . 
It was over an unoccupied part of country , rather wild and desolate , but they did not mind that . 
They were whizzing along , talking of Tom's chances for winning the race when , after climbing a slight grade , the auto came to a sudden stop on the summit . 
What's the matter ? asked Mr. Sharp . 
Why are you stopping here , Tom ? I didn't stop , was the surprising answer , and the lad shoved the starting lever back and forth . 
But there was no response . 
There was no hum from the motor . 
That's queer , murmured the young inventor Maybe a fuse blew out , suggested Mr. Damon , that seeming to be his favorite form of trouble . 
If it had you'd have known it , remarked Mr. Sharp . 
There's plenty of current in the battery , according to the registering gauge , murmured the lad . 
Perhaps the dial hand has become caught , suggested Mr. Sharp . 
That sometimes happens on a steam gauge , and indicates a high pressure when there isn't any . 
Hit it slightly , and see if the hand swings back . 
At once the hand fell to zero , indicating that there was not an ampere of current left . 
The battery was exhausted , but this fact had not been indicated on the gauge . 
I see now ! cried Tom . 
It was those fellows at the hotel barn ! They monkeyed with the mechanism , short circuited the battery , and jammed the gauge so I couldn't tell when my power was gone . 
If I had known there wasn't enough to carry us I could have recharged the battery at the hotel . 
But I figured that I had enough current for the entire trip , and so there would have been , if it hadn't leaked away . 
Now we're in a pretty pickle . 
Bless my hat band ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Does that mean we can't move ? Guess that's about it , answered Mr. Sharp , and Tom nodded . 
The only trouble is we can't carry the heavy car with us , replied Tom . 
It's too big to pick up and take to a charging station . 
Then we've got to wait until some one comes along with a team of horses , and tows us in , commented Mr. Sharp . 
And that will be some time , on this lonely road . 
Tom shook his head despondently . 
The situation was far from pleasant , and the delay would seriously interfere with their plans . 
Suddenly , as Tom was pacing up and down the road , he heard from afar , a peculiar humming sound . 
Trolley car , observed Mr. Sharp . 
Maybe one of us could go somewhere on the trolley and get help . 
There it is , and he pointed to the electric vehicle , moving along about half a mile away , at the foot of a gentle slope . 
At the sight of the car Tom uttered a cry . 
I have it ! he exclaimed . 
None of us need go for help ! It's right at hand ! His companions looked curiously , as the young inventor pointed triumphantly to the fast disappearing electric . 
CHAPTER XXIV ON THE TRACK What do you mean ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Will the electric trolley pull us to a charging station ? No , we'll not need to go to a station , answered the youth . 
If we can get my car to the trolley tracks I can charge my battery from there . 
And I think we can push the auto near enough . 
It's down hill , and I've got a long wire so we won't have to go too close . 
Good ! cried Mr. Sharp . 
But attach the rope to the front of the car , Tom . 
Mr. Damon and I will pull it . 
You'll have to ride in it to steer it . 
We can take turns at riding , was Tom's answer , for he did not want his companions to do all the work . 
Nonsense ! You ride , said Mr. Damon . 
You're lighter than we are , and can steer better . 
It won't be any trouble at all to pull this car down hill . 
Why bless my soul ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , looking up . 
There's no overhead trolley wire . 
The car must run on storage batteries . 
Third rail , more likely , was the opinion of Mr. Sharp and so it proved . 
I can charge from either the third rail or the trolley wire , declared Tom , who was insulating his hands in rubber gloves , and getting his wires ready . 
How long will it take ? asked Mr. Damon . 
About two hours , answered the lad . 
We'll probably have to disconnect our wires several times , whenever a trolley car comes past . 
By my system I can recharge the battery very quickly . 
Do you suppose the owners of the road will make any objection ? asked the balloonist . 
I'm going to pay for the current I use , explained the young inventor . 
I have a meter which tells how much I take . 
The hum of an approaching car was heard , and Tom took the wires from the third rail . 
The car came to a stop opposite the automobile , the passengers , as well as the crew , looking curiously at the queer racing machine . 
Tom explained to the conductor what was going on , and asked the fare collector to notify those in charge of the power station that all current used would be paid for . 
The conductor said this would be satisfactory , he was sure , and the car proceeded , Tom resuming the charging of his battery . 
They had been delayed a little over three hours , for they had to make several shifts , as the cars came past . 
The next day was spent in overhauling the machinery , tightening up some loose bearings , oiling different parts , and further charging the battery . 
Tires were looked to , and the ones on the spare wheels were gone over to prepare for any emergency that might arise when the race was started . 
On the third day , Tom , Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon , leaving the cottage completed the trip to Havenford , Long Island , where the new track had been constructed . 
Several electric cars passed Tom and his friends , whizzing swiftly by , but the young inventor was not going to show off his speed until the time came . 
Besides , he did not want to run any risks of an accident . 
But some of the contestants seemed anxious for impromptu brushes , and more than one called to our hero to speed up and let's see what she can do . 
But Tom smiled , and shook his head . 
There were many gasolene and some steam autos going out to the new track , which was considered a remarkable piece of engineering . 
It was in the shape of an octagon , and the turns were considered very safe . 
It was a five mile track , and to complete the race it would be necessary to make a hundred circuits . 
Through scores of autos Tom and his friends threaded their way , the young inventor keeping a watchful eye on the various types of machine with which he would soon have to compete . 
Some were larger and some smaller than his . 
Many obviously carried very large batteries , but whether they had the speed or not was another question . 
Some , in spurts , seemed to Tom , to be fully as fast as his own , and he began to have some doubts whether he would win the race . 
But I'm not going to give up until the five hundredth mile is finished , he thought , grimly . 
They were now in sight of the track , and noted many machines speeding around it . 
Go on in and try your car , Tom , urged Mr. Sharp . 
Yes , do , added Mr. Damon . 
Let's see how it travels . 
I will , after I notify the proper officials that I have arrived , decided the lad . 
The formalities were soon complied with . 
Only electric cars were allowed there . 
As the young inventor guided his latest effort in the machine line onto the big track there were murmurs of surprise from the throngs . 
That's a queer machine , said one . 
Yes , but it looks speedy , was another's opinion . 
There's the car for my money , added a third , pointing to a big red electric which was certainly whizzing around the track . 
Tom noted the red car . 
Behind it was a green one , also moving at a fast rate of speed . 
Those will be my nearest rivals , thought the lad , as he guided his car onto the track . 
As it happened he forged ahead just as the big red car was coming up behind him . 
The driver of it took this for a challenge and threw his controller handle forward . 
Come on ! he cried to our hero , when even with him . 
Tom did not want to decline the invitation , and the impromptu race was under way . 
Soon the green car came rushing up , and for two miles the three kept almost in line . 
It was evident that neither the green nor the red car drivers wanted to open out , until they saw Tom do so . 
He was willing to oblige them , and suddenly increased his speed . 
They did the same , and went ahead of him . 
Then Tom turned on a little more juice and got the lead , but the two men were right after him , and they see sawed like this for two more miles . 
Then , with a cry the man in the red car , with a sudden burst of speed , left Tom and the green car behind . 
The green car was soon up to its rival , but Tom decided he would not spurt . 
The lad and his friends spent the early part of the night in making a final inspection of the machinery , finding it in good order . 
Then , with his head filled with visions of the race on the morrow Tom went to bed . 
He had made inquiries , by telephone , of the friends of Miss Nestor , and learned that she had not arrived . 
Tom felt a distinct sense of disappointment . 
The day of the race could not have been better . 
It was ideal weather , and conditions at the track were just right . 
Tom was up early , and went over every inch of his car with a nervous dread that he might find something the matter . 
The final details of the race were completed , and the entrants given their numbers and places . 
Tom drew a good position , not the best , but he had no reason to complain . 
Mr. Damon went to the grandstand to watch the race . 
I wanted Mary to see me win , thought our hero , for he had grimly set his mind on coming in ahead . 
There was a great crowd in the grandstand and scattered about the big track , which took in a large extent of territory . 
In spite of its size five miles around it seemed solidly packed for the entire length with autos , containing gay parties who had come to see the electric contest . 
There was a band playing gay airs , as Tom guided his machine through the entrance gate , and onto the track . 
The judges made their final inspection . 
There were twenty cars entered , but it was obvious that some of them would not last long , as their battery capacity was not large enough . 
Their owners might have relied on recharging , but how they could do this under the usual slow system , and hope to win , Tom could not see . 
Tom glanced over the cars of his competitors . 
They were to be sent away in batches , the affair being a handicap one , with time allowance for the smaller powered cars . 
Tom noted that his car and the red and the green ones were in the same bunch . 
Are you all ready ? asked the starter of the first group of races . 
Ready , was the low voiced response . 
Crack ! went the pistol , and there followed the hum of the motors as the current set the mechanism to work . 
Forward went the cars , amid the crash of the band and the cheers of the crowd . 
The big race was under way . 
Do you feel nervous , Tom ? asked Mr. Sharp . 
Not a bit , replied the lad . 
Around and around the track flew the speedy electrics . 
It was evident that the holding of a meet solely for cars of this character had brought out many new ideas that would be to the benefit of the industry . 
Some cars were freaks and others , like Tom's , showed a distinct advance over previous styles of construction . 
A five hundred mile race around a track is rather a monotonous affair , except for what happens , and things very soon began to happen at this race . 
As Tom had expected , several of the machines were forced to withdraw . 
Tire troubles beset some , and others found that they were hopelessly out of it because of low power , or lack of battery capacity . 
Tom determined not to let the red or the green car gain any advantage over him , and so he watched those two vehicles narrowly . 
On the other hand , the red and the green electrics were evidently afraid of one another and of Tom . 
They all three kept pretty much together for the first thirty miles . 
By this time the race had settled down into a steady grind . 
There was some excitement when the steering gear of one car broke , and it crashed Into the fence , injuring the driver , but the race went on . 
The young inventor was holding his own with his two chief rivals , and was feeling rather proud of his car , when there came from it a report like a pistol shot . 
Blow out ! yelled Tom desperately , steering to one of the several repair stations on the inner side of the track . 
Be ready with the extra wheel , Mr. Sharp ! Right you are ! cried the balloonist . 
The car was scarcely stopped when he had leaped out , and had the lifting jack under the left rear wheel , where the tire had gone to the bad . 
He and Tom labored like Trojans to take off the wheel , and put on the other . 
They lost five minutes , and when they got under way again the red and the green cars were three quarters of a lap ahead . 
You've got to catch them ! declared Sharp firmly . 
But the red and the green car drivers saw their advantage , and were determined to hold it . 
Tom could not catch them without going his limit , and he did not want to do this just yet . 
However , he had his opportunity when about two hundred miles had been covered . 
Still Tom regained his lost ground , and once more the race between those three cars was even . 
In the rear of Tom's car Mr. Sharp was mending the blown out tire , though there was still one spare wheel on reserve . 
Tom , in front , peered eagerly at the track . 
Nearly side by side raced the red and the green cars , the latter somewhat to the rear . 
It was at the three hundred and fiftieth mile that Tom had another blow out . 
This time it took a little longer to change the wheel , and the red and green cars gained a full lap on him . 
The track was now so dusty that it was difficult to see the contesting cars . 
Many had dropped out , and more were on the verge of giving up . 
With the odds against him , Tom started in to regain the lost ground . 
Narrowly he watched his electric power . 
Slowly he saw it dropping . 
Would he have enough left to finish out the race ? He feared not . 
Still there was a hundred miles yet to go twenty circuits of the track . 
Some of the spectators were getting weary and leaving . 
Suddenly Tom saw the red car shoot to one side of the track , toward a charging station The green car followed . 
That's our cue ! cried the young inventor We need a little more 'juice' and now is the time to get it . 
The lad ran to the shed where his charging wires were , and they were connected in a trice . 
He allowed twenty five minutes for the charging , as he knew with his improved battery he could get enough current in that time to finish the contest . 
Before the red and green car drivers had finished installing new batteries , for they could not recharge as quickly as could our hero , Tom was on the track again . 
But , in a little while , his two rivals were after him . 
It was now a spectacular race . 
Around and around swept the three big cars . 
All the others were practically out of it . 
The crowd became lively airs . 
Mile after mile was reeled off . 
Tired and covered with dust from the track , Tom still sat at the steering wheel . 
Two laps more ! cried Mr. Sharp , as the starter's pistol gave this warning . 
Can you get away from 'em , Tom ? The red and the green cars were following closely . 
The young inventor looked back and nodded . 
He turned on more power , almost to the limit that he was saving for the final spurt . 
But after him still came the two big cars . 
Suddenly the red car shot ahead , just as the last lap was beginning . 
The green tried to follow , but there was a flash of fire , a loud report , and Tom knew a fuse had blown out . 
There was no time for his rival to put in a new one . 
The race was now between Tom and the red car . 
Could the lad catch and pass it ? They were now only a mile from the finish . 
The red car was three lengths ahead . 
With a quick motion Tom turned on the last bit of power . 
There seemed to come a roar from his Motor and his car shot ahead . 
It was on even terms with the red car when what Tom had been fearing for the last five minutes happened . 
Too bad ! It's all up with us ! cried Mr. Sharp . 
No ! cried Tom in a ringing voice . 
I've got an emergency fuse ready ! He snapped a switch in place , putting into commission another fuse . 
The motor that had lost speed began to pick it up again . 
Tom had pulled back the controller handle , but he now shoved it forward again , notch by notch , until it was at the limit . 
He had fallen back from the red car , and the occupants of that , with a yell of triumph , prepared to cross the line a winner . 
But , like a race horse that nerves himself for the last desperate spurt , Tom's machine fairly leaped ahead . 
With his hands gripping the rim of the steering wheel , until it seemed that the bones of his fingers would protrude , Tom sent his car straight for the finishing tape . 
There was a yell from the spectators . 
Men were standing up , waving their hats and shouting . 
Mr. Damon was blessing everything within sight . 
Mr. Sharp , in his excitement , was pushing on the back of the front seats as if to shove the car ahead . 
Amid the cheers of the crowd the lad slowed up , and , at the direction of the judges , wheeled back to the stand , to receive the prize . 
A certified check for three thousand dollars was handed him , and he received the congratulations of the racing officials . 
The driver of the red car also generously praised him . 
You won fair and square , he said , shaking hands with Tom . 
The young inventor and his friends drove their car to their shed . 
Why why , he stammered . 
I I thought you didn't come . 
Oh , yes I did , she answered , laughing . 
I wouldn't have missed it for anything . 
I arrived late , but I saw the whole race . 
I'm so glad you won ! Tom was too , now , but he shrank back when Miss Nestor held out both daintily gloved hands to him . 
His hands were covered with oil and dirt . 
As if I cared for my gloves ! she cried , and she took possession of his hands , a proceeding to which Tom was nothing loath . 
Are you going to race any more ? she asked , as he walked along by her side , away from the gathering crowd . 
I don't know , he replied . 
My car is speedier than I thought it was . 
Perhaps I may enter it in other contests . 
Several automobile manufacturers wanted to secure the rights to his machine , but he said he desired to consider the matter before acting . 
He did not forget his promise to Mrs. Baggert , regarding the diamond earrings , and bought her the finest pair he could find . 
Come on , Mr. Sharp , proposed Tom , a week or so after the big race , let's go for a spin in the airship . 
I want to see how it feels to be among the clouds once more , and they were soon soaring aloft . 
The new bank , started by Mr. Foger , did not flourish long . 
It closed its doors in less than six months , but the old institution was stronger than ever . 
Mr. Berg disappeared , and Tom never learned whether the agent really was the man he had chased , and whose watch charm he tore loose , though he always had his suspicions . 
Nor did it ever develop who crossed the electric wires , so that Tom was so nearly fatally shocked . 
Andy Foger disliked our hero more than ever , and on several occasions caused him not a little trouble , but Tom was able to look after himself . 
Don't throw away the Wrapper Use it as a handy catalog of the books you want some day to have . 
But in case you do mislay it , write to the Publishers for a complete catalog . 
THE TOM SWIFT SERIES By VICTOR APPLETON Uniform Style of Binding . 
Individual Colored Wrappers , Every Volume Complete in Itself . 
Every boy possesses some form of inventive genius . 
Tom Swift is a bright , ingenious boy and his inventions and adventures make the most interesting kind of reading . 
DON STURDY ON THE DESERT OF MYSTERY An engrossing tale of the Sahara Desert , of encounters with wild animals and crafty Arabs . 
DON STURDY ACROSS THE NORTH POLE A great polar blizzard nearly wrecks the airship of the explorers . 
DON STURDY IN THE LAND OF VOLCANOES An absorbing tale of adventure among the volcanos of Alaska . 
DON STURDY IN THE PORT OF LOST SHIPS This story is just full of exciting and fearful experiences on the sea . 
DON STURDY AMONG THE GORILLAS A thrilling story of adventure in darkest Africa . 
Don is carried over a mighty waterfall into the heart of gorilla land . 
