But it was soon made plain to me that to hope for even a moderate popularity for Shelton was vain . 
His fine old crusted English would , no doubt , be relished by a minority , but it would be only by a minority . 
His warmest admirers must admit that he is not a satisfactory representative of Cervantes . 
His translation of the First Part was very hastily made and was never revised by him . 
It has all the freshness and vigour , but also a full measure of the faults , of a hasty production . 
It is often very literal barbarously literal frequently but just as often very loose . 
He had evidently a good colloquial knowledge of Spanish , but apparently not much more . 
It never seems to occur to him that the same translation of a word will not suit in every case . 
It is often said that we have no satisfactory translation of Don Quixote . 
The history of our English translations of Don Quixote is instructive . 
Shelton's , the first in any language , was made , apparently , about , but not published till . 
This of course was only the First Part . 
In John Phillips , Milton's nephew , produced a Don Quixote made English , he says , according to the humour of our modern language . 
His Quixote is not so much a translation as a travesty , and a travesty that for coarseness , vulgarity , and buffoonery is almost unexampled even in the literature of that day . 
, can scarcely be reckoned a translation , but it serves to show the light in which Don Quixote was regarded at the time . 
A further illustration may be found in the version published in by Peter Motteux , who had then recently combined tea dealing with literature . 
It is described as translated from the original by several hands , but if so all Spanish flavour has entirely evaporated under the manipulation of the several hands . 
The flavour that it has , on the other hand , is distinctly Franco cockney . 
It is , to be sure , more decent and decorous , but it treats Don Quixote in the same fashion as a comic book that cannot be made too comic . 
Jervas has been allowed little credit for his work , indeed it may be said none , for it is known to the world in general as Jarvis's . 
It was not published until after his death , and the printers gave the name according to the current pronunciation of the day . 
It has been the most freely used and the most freely abused of all the translations . 
, and this may have been strengthened by Pope's remark that he translated 'Don Quixote' without understanding Spanish . 
He has been also charged with borrowing from Shelton , whom he disparaged . 
The charge against it is that it is stiff , dry wooden in a word , and no one can deny that there is a foundation for it . 
But it may be pleaded for Jervas that a good deal of this rigidity is due to his abhorrence of the light , flippant , jocose style of his predecessors . 
Smollett's version , published in , may be almost counted as one of these . 
At any rate it is plain that in its construction Jervas's translation was very freely drawn upon , and very little or probably no heed given to the original Spanish . 
The later translations may be dismissed in a few words . 
On the latest , Mr. A. J. Duffield's , it would be in every sense of the word impertinent in me to offer an opinion here . 
It is not a question of caviare to the general , or , if it is , the fault rests with him who makes so . 
The method by which Cervantes won the ear of the Spanish people ought , mutatis mutandis , to be equally effective with the great majority of English readers . 
One which , it seems to me , cannot be too rigidly followed in translating Don Quixote , is to avoid everything that savours of affectation . 
The book itself is , indeed , in one sense a protest against it , and no man abhorred it more than Cervantes . 
For this reason , I think , any temptation to use antiquated or obsolete language should be resisted . 
It is after all an affectation , and one for which there is no warrant or excuse . 
Except in the tales and Don Quixote's speeches , the translator who uses the simplest and plainest everyday language will almost always be the one who approaches nearest to the original . 
Of course a translator who holds that Don Quixote should receive the treatment a great classic deserves , will feel himself bound by the injunction laid upon the Morisco in Chap . 
IX not to omit or add anything . 
All traces of the personality of Cervantes had by that time disappeared . 
This , however , has been done by the last named biographer to such good purpose that he has superseded all predecessors . 
Thoroughness is the chief characteristic of Navarrete's work . 
Navarrete has done all that industry and acumen could do , and it is no fault of his if he has not given us what we want . 
by a contemporary has been produced . 
The origin of the name Cervantes is curious . 
Ford , as all know who have taken him for a companion and counsellor on the roads of Spain , is seldom wrong in matters of literature or history . 
In this instance , however , he is in error . 
It has everything to do with the author of Don Quixote , for it is in fact these old walls that have given to Spain the name she is proudest of to day . 
The pedigree of Cervantes is not without its bearing on Don Quixote . 
It was the case of his own . 
He was born at Alcala de Henares and baptised in the church of Santa Maria Mayor on the th of October , . 
Other things besides the drama were in their infancy when Cervantes was a boy . 
The period of his boyhood was in every way a transition period for Spain . 
The old chivalrous Spain had passed away . 
The new Spain was the mightiest power the world had seen since the Roman Empire and it had not yet been called upon to pay the price of its greatness . 
By the policy of Ferdinand and Ximenez the sovereign had been made absolute , and the Church and Inquisition adroitly adjusted to keep him so . 
The transition extended to literature . 
For a youth fond of reading , solid or light , there could have been no better spot in Spain than Alcala de Henares in the middle of the sixteenth century . 
For his more solid education , we are told , he went to Salamanca . 
The only evidence is a vague statement by Professor Tomas Gonzalez , that he once saw an old entry of the matriculation of a Miguel de Cervantes . 
That he was a student neither at Salamanca nor at Alcala is best proved by his own works . 
All that we know positively about his education is that Juan Lopez de Hoyos , a professor of humanities and belles lettres of some eminence , calls him his dear and beloved pupil . 
It is only by a rare chance that a Lycidas finds its way into a volume of this sort , and Cervantes was no Milton . 
His verses are no worse than such things usually are so much , at least , may be said for them . 
By the time the book appeared he had left Spain , and , as fate ordered it , for twelve years , the most eventful ones of his life . 
, the office he himself held in the Pope's household . 
What impelled him to this step we know not , whether it was distaste for the career before him , or purely military enthusiasm . 
He came out with his left hand permanently disabled he had lost the use of it , as Mercury told him in the Viaje del Parnaso for the greater glory of the right . 
On the th they fell in with a squadron of Algerine galleys , and after a stout resistance were overpowered and carried into Algiers . 
This was not the first attempt to escape that Cervantes had made . 
The second attempt was more disastrous . 
How he , a captive himself , contrived to do all this , is one of the mysteries of the story . 
Wild as the project may appear , it was very nearly successful . 
The Dorador had revealed the whole scheme to the Dey Hassan . 
Brought before the Dey , he said the same . 
After this he seems to have been kept in still closer confinement than before , for nearly two years passed before he made another attempt . 
As before , the Dey tried to force him to name his accomplices . 
Finding he could make nothing of him , the Dey sent him back to prison more heavily ironed than before . 
Eleven witnesses taken from among the principal captives in Algiers deposed to all the facts above stated and to a great deal more besides . 
The drama had by this time outgrown market place stages and strolling companies , and with his old love for it he naturally turned to it for a congenial employment . 
In other words , his plays were not bad enough to be hissed off the stage , but not good enough to hold their own upon it . 
Whatever merits they may have , whatever occasional they may show , they are , as regards construction , incurably clumsy . 
When Lope began to write for the stage is uncertain , but it was certainly after Cervantes went to Seville . 
Among the Nuevos Documentos printed by Senor Asensio y Toledo is one dated , and curiously characteristic of Cervantes . 
apiece , not to be paid in any case unless it appeared on representation that the said comedy was one of the best that had ever been represented in Spain . 
The test does not seem to have been ever applied perhaps it was sufficiently apparent to Rodrigo Osorio that the comedies were not among the best that had ever been represented . 
He was more successful in a literary contest at Saragossa in in honour of the canonisation of St . 
Jacinto , when his composition won the first prize , three silver spoons . 
The year before this he had been appointed a collector of revenues for the kingdom of Granada . 
The balance against him , however , was a small one , about l . 
, and on giving security for it he was released at the end of the year . 
But it was in Seville that he found out his true vocation , though he himself would not by any means have admitted it to be so . 
Where and when that was written , we cannot tell . 
After his imprisonment all trace of Cervantes in his official capacity disappears , from which it may be inferred that he was not reinstated . 
The printing was finished in December , and the book came out with the new year , . 
It is often said that Don Quixote was at first received coldly . 
The facts show just the contrary . 
No doubt it was received with something more than coldness by certain sections of the community . 
Meanwhile Don Quixote had been growing in favour , and its author's name was now known beyond the Pyrenees . 
In an edition was printed at Brussels . 
Robles , the Madrid publisher , found it necessary to meet the demand by a third edition , the seventh in all , in . 
The popularity of the book in Italy was such that a Milan bookseller was led to bring out an edition in and another was called for in Brussels in . 
But , to all appearance , nothing was farther from his thoughts . 
In this , eight years and a half after the First Part of Don Quixote had appeared , we get the first hint of a forthcoming Second Part . 
You shall see shortly , he says , the further exploits of Don Quixote and humours of Sancho Panza . 
But more than poems , or pastorals , or novels , it was his dramatic ambition that engrossed his thoughts . 
The temperament of Cervantes was essentially sanguine . 
Nothing that the managers might say could persuade him that the merits of his plays would not be recognised at last if they were only given a fair chance . 
The old soldier of the Spanish Salamis was bent on being the Aeschylus of Spain . 
All this he was to do , could he once get a hearing there was the initial difficulty . 
He shows plainly enough , too , that Don Quixote and the demolition of the chivalry romances was not the work that lay next his heart . 
He was , indeed , as he says himself in his preface , more a stepfather than a father to Don Quixote . 
Never was great work so neglected by its author . 
That it was written carelessly , hastily , and by fits and starts , was not always his fault , but it seems clear he never read what he sent to the press . 
No doubt he had an affection for his hero , and was very proud of Sancho Panza . 
It would have been strange indeed if he had not been proud of the most humorous creation in all fiction . 
But it was not the success he coveted . 
At sixty eight he was as full of life and hope and plans for the future as a boy of eighteen . 
Nemesis was coming , however . 
Had Avellaneda , in fact , been content with merely bringing out a continuation to Don Quixote , Cervantes would have had no reasonable grievance . 
In fact Cervantes had no case , or a very bad one , as far as the mere continuation was concerned . 
But Avellaneda chose to write a preface to it , full of such coarse personal abuse as only an ill conditioned man could pour out . 
Avellaneda's reason for this personal attack is obvious enough . 
His identification has exercised the best critics and baffled all the ingenuity and research that has been brought to bear on it . 
Any merit Avellaneda has is reflected from Cervantes , and he is too dull to reflect much . 
Dull and dirty will always be , I imagine , the verdict of the vast majority of unprejudiced readers . 
But whatever Avellaneda and his book may be , we must not forget the debt we owe them . 
But for them , there can be no doubt , Don Quixote would have come to us a mere torso instead of a complete work . 
It is needless to say they were put forward by Cervantes in all good faith and full confidence in their merits . 
He died as he had lived , accepting his lot bravely and cheerfully . 
Was it an unhappy life , that of Cervantes ? His biographers all tell us that it was but I must say I doubt it . 
It is impossible to conceive Cervantes giving way to despondency or prostrated by dejection . 
He who could take Cervantes' distresses together with his apparatus for enduring them would not make so bad a bargain , perhaps , as far as happiness in life is concerned . 
But whether the remains of Cervantes were included in the removal or not no one knows , and the clue to their resting place is now lost beyond all hope . 
This furnishes perhaps the least defensible of the items in the charge of neglect brought against his contemporaries . 
In some of the others there is a good deal of exaggeration . 
To talk of his hard life and unworthy employments in Andalusia is absurd . 
It did the best it could it read his book and liked it and bought it , and encouraged the bookseller to pay him well for others . 
The nearest bookseller's shop will show what bathos there would be in a monument to the author of Don Quixote . 
The translations show still more clearly in what request the book has been from the very outset . 
In seven years from the completion of the work it had been translated into the four leading languages of Europe . 
Except the Bible , in fact , no book has been so widely diffused as Don Quixote . 
Still more remarkable is the character of this wide diffusion . 
Another curious fact is that this , the most cosmopolitan book in the world , is one of the most intensely national . 
There is something in it for every sort of reader , young or old , sage or simple , high or low . 
To England belongs the credit of having been the first country to recognise the right of Don Quixote to better treatment than this . 
The London edition of , commonly called Lord Carteret's from having been suggested by him , was not a mere edition de luxe . 
The zeal of publishers , editors , and annotators brought about a remarkable change of sentiment with regard to Don Quixote . 
A vast number of its admirers began to grow ashamed of laughing over it . 
It became almost a crime to treat it as a humorous book . 
All were agreed , however , that the object he aimed at was not the books of chivalry . 
Something of the antagonism , no doubt , is to be found in Don Quixote , because it is to be found everywhere in life , and Cervantes drew from life . 
It is difficult to imagine a community in which the never ceasing game of cross purposes between Sancho Panza and Don Quixote would not be recognized as true to nature . 
The extraordinary influence of the romances of chivalry in his day is quite enough to account for the genesis of the book . 
As to its effect upon the nation , there is abundant evidence . 
Ridicule was the only besom to sweep away that dust . 
Of all the absurdities that , thanks to poetry , will be repeated to the end of time , there is no greater one than saying that Cervantes smiled Spain's chivalry away . 
In the first place there was no chivalry for him to smile away . 
Spain's chivalry had been dead for more than a century . 
What he did smile away was not chivalry but a degrading mockery of it . 
To call Don Quixote a sad book , preaching a pessimist view of life , argues a total misconception of its drift . 
It would be so if its moral were that , in this world , true enthusiasm naturally leads to ridicule and discomfiture . 
A very slight examination of the structure of Don Quixote will suffice to show that Cervantes had no deep design or elaborate plan in his mind when he began the book . 
Him we owe to the landlord's chance remark in Chapter III that knights seldom travelled without squires . 
To try to think of a Don Quixote without Sancho Panza is like trying to think of a one bladed pair of scissors . 
It was probably the ransacking of the Don's library and the discussion on the books of chivalry that first suggested it to him that his idea was capable of development . 
In working out the new ideas , he soon found the value of Sancho Panza . 
We can see the whole scene at a glance , the stolid unconsciousness of Sancho and the perplexity of his master , upon whose perception the incongruity has just forced itself . 
Don Quixote and Sancho Panza had not merely found favour , but had already become , what they have never since ceased to be , veritable entities to the popular imagination . 
To himself , too , his creations had become realities , and he had become proud of them , especially of Sancho . 
He began the Second Part , therefore , under very different conditions , and the difference makes itself manifest at once . 
Even in translation the style will be seen to be far easier , more flowing , more natural , and more like that of a man sure of himself and of his audience . 
Don Quixote and Sancho undergo a change also . 
In the First Part , Don Quixote has no character or individuality whatever . 
He is nothing more than a crazy representative of the sentiments of the chivalry romances . 
It is true the amount of individuality bestowed upon Don Quixote is not very great . 
An inferior genius , taking him in hand a second time , would very likely have tried to improve him by making him more comical , clever , amiable , or virtuous . 
But Cervantes was too true an artist to spoil his work in this way . 
His development in this respect is as remarkable as in any other . 
In the First Part he displays a great natural gift of lying . 
It is worth noticing how , flushed by his success in this instance , he is tempted afterwards to try a flight beyond his powers in his account of the journey on Clavileno . 
In the Second Part it is the spirit rather than the incidents of the chivalry romances that is the subject of the burlesque . 
In the romances of chivalry love is either a mere animalism or a fantastic idolatry . 
Only a coarse minded man would care to make merry with the former , but to one of Cervantes' humour the latter was naturally an attractive subject for ridicule . 
This is what Cervantes deals with in Don Quixote's passion for Dulcinea , and in no instance has he carried out the burlesque more happily . 
Of all the regions of Spain it is the last that would suggest the idea of romance . 
Of all the dull central plateau of the Peninsula it is the dullest tract . 
To anyone who knew the country well , the mere style and title of Don Quixote of La Mancha gave the key to the author's meaning at once . 
It has been completely overlooked , for example , by the illustrators . 
To be sure , the great majority of the artists who illustrated Don Quixote knew nothing whatever of Spain . 
But even when better informed they seem to have no apprehension of the full force of the discrepancy . 
Take , for instance , Gustave Dore's drawing of Don Quixote watching his armour in the inn yard . 
It is the mean , prosaic , commonplace character of all the surroundings and circumstances that gives a significance to Don Quixote's vigil and the ceremony that follows . 
Cervantes' humour is for the most part of that broader and simpler sort , the strength of which lies in the perception of the incongruous . 
His , in fact , is the exact opposite of the humour of Sterne and the self conscious humourists . 
Even when Uncle Toby is at his best , you are always aware of the man Sterne behind him , watching you over his shoulder to see what effect he is producing . 
Cervantes always leaves you alone with Don Quixote and Sancho . 
It is true that to do full justice to Spanish humour in any other language is well nigh an impossibility . 
There is a natural gravity and a sonorous stateliness about Spanish , be it ever so colloquial , that make an absurdity doubly absurd , and give plausibility to the most preposterous statement . 
This is what makes Sancho Panza's drollery the despair of the conscientious translator . 
Sancho's curt comments can never fall flat , but they lose half their flavour when transferred from their native Castilian into any other medium . 
But if foreigners have failed to do justice to the humour of Cervantes , they are no worse than his own countrymen . 
To speak of Don Quixote as if it were merely a humorous book would be a manifest misdescription . 
Cervantes at times makes it a kind of commonplace book for occasional essays and criticisms , or for the observations and reflections and gathered wisdom of a long and stirring life . 
It is a mine of shrewd observation on mankind and human nature . 
Among modern novels there may be , here and there , more elaborate studies of character , but there is no book richer in individualised character . 
What Coleridge said of Shakespeare in minimis is true of Cervantes he never , even for the most temporary purpose , puts forward a lay figure . 
There is life and individuality in all his characters , however little they may have to do , or however short a time they may be before the reader . 
It is this that makes it , as one of the most judicial minded of modern critics calls it , the best novel in the world beyond all comparison . 
But if perchance thou hast a mind To win of idiots approbation , Lost labour will be thy reward , Though they'll pretend appreciation . 
Put no vain emblems on thy shield All figures that is bragging play . 
Thy constant labour let it be To earn thyself an honest name , For fooleries preserved in print Are perpetuity of shame . 
A further counsel bear in mind If that thy roof be made of glass , It shows small wit to pick up stones To pelt the people as they pass . 
Win the attention of the wise , And give the thinker food for thought Whoso indites frivolities , Will but by simpletons be sought . 
My mastery the Fickle Goddess owned , And even Chance , submitting to control , Grasped by the forelock , yielded to my will . 
Yet though above yon horned moon enthroned My fortune seems to sit great Quixote , still Envy of thy achievements fills my soul . 
No longer now doth proud knight errantry Regard with scorn the sickle and the spade Of towering arrogance less count is made Than of plain esquire like simplicity . 
I envy thee thy Dapple , and thy name , And those alforjas thou wast wont to stuff With comforts that thy providence proclaim . 
Excellent Sancho ! hail to thee again ! To thee alone the Ovid of our Spain Does homage with the rustic kiss and cuff . 
I cannot be thy rival , for thy fame And prowess rise above all rivalry , Albeit both bereft of wits we go . 
But , though the Scythian or the Moor to tame Was not thy lot , still thou dost rival me Love binds us in a fellowship of woe . 
I scorned all empire , and that monarchy The rosy east held out did I resign For one glance of Claridiana's eye , The bright Aurora for whose love I pine . 
A miracle of constancy my love And banished by her ruthless cruelty , This arm had might the rage of Hell to tame . 
But , Gothic Quixote , happier thou dost prove , For thou dost live in Dulcinea's name , And famous , honoured , wise , she lives in thee . 
Your deeds are open proof in all men's view For you went forth injustice to abate , And for your pains sore drubbings did you get From many a rascally and ruffian crew . 
DIALOGUE Between Babieca and Rocinante SONNET B. How comes it , Rocinante , you're so lean ? R. I'm underfed , with overwork I'm worn . 
B. But what becomes of all the hay and corn ? R. My master gives me none he's much too mean . 
B. Come , come , you show ill breeding , sir , I ween 'T is like an ass your master thus to scorn . 
R. From want of food . 
B. Rail at the squire , then . 
For I can tell thee , though composing it cost me some labour , I found none greater than the making of this Preface thou art now reading . 
Many times did I take up my pen to write it , and many did I lay it down again , not knowing what to write . 
And then , when they quote the Holy Scriptures ! anyone would say they are St . 
Also my book must do without sonnets at the beginning , at least sonnets whose authors are dukes , marquises , counts , bishops , ladies , or famous poets . 
Hence the cogitation and abstraction you found me in , and reason enough , what you have heard from me . 
If you speak of evil thoughts , turn to the Gospel De corde exeunt cogitationes malae . 
If of the fickleness of friends , there is Cato , who will give you his distich Donec eris felix multos numerabis amicos , Tempora si fuerint nubila , solus eris . 
With these and such like bits of Latin they will take you for a grammarian at all events , and that now a days is no small honour and profit . 
With regard to adding annotations at the end of the book , you may safely do it in this way . 
Now let us come to those references to authors which other books have , and you want for yours . 
At any rate , if it answers no other purpose , this long catalogue of authors will serve to give a surprising look of authority to your book . 
It has only to avail itself of truth to nature in its composition , and the more perfect the imitation the better the work will be . 
And so may God give thee health , and not forget me . 
It is my earnest hope that Your Excellency's good counsel in regard to my honourable purpose , will not disdain the littleness of so humble a service . 
The age of this gentleman of ours was bordering on fifty he was of a hardy habit , spare , gaunt featured , a very early riser and a great sportsman . 
, although from reasonable conjectures it seems plain that he was called Quexana . 
This , however , is of but little importance to our tale it will be enough not to stray a hair's breadth from the truth in the telling of it . 
as to which had been the better knight , Palmerin of England or Amadis of Gaul . 
He approved highly of the giant Morgante , because , although of the giant breed which is always arrogant and ill conditioned , he alone was affable and well bred . 
To have a bout of kicking at that traitor of a Ganelon he would have given his housekeeper , and his niece into the bargain . 
He scoured and polished it as best he could , but he perceived one great defect in it , that it had no closed helmet , nothing but a simple morion . 
This deficiency , however , his ingenuity supplied , for he contrived a kind of half helmet of pasteboard which , fitted on to the morion , looked like a whole one . 
But scarcely did he find himself upon the open plain , when a terrible thought struck him , one all but enough to make him abandon the enterprise at the very outset . 
O lady , deign to hold in remembrance this heart , thy vassal , that thus in anguish pines for love of thee . 
there is plenty of everything else here . 
, made answer , Sir Castellan , for me anything will suffice , for 'My armour is my only wear , My only rest the fray . 
, and then charged the host to take great care of his horse , as he was the best bit of flesh that ever ate bread in this world . 
A time , however , will come for your ladyships to command and me to obey , and then the might of my arm will show my desire to serve you . 
The girls , who were not used to hearing rhetoric of this sort , had nothing to say in reply they only asked him if he wanted anything to eat . 
I would gladly eat a bit of something , said Don Quixote , for I feel it would come very seasonably . 
But whatever it be let it come quickly , for the burden and pressure of arms cannot be borne without support to the inside . 
carried well furnished purses in case of emergency , and likewise carried shirts and a little box of ointment to cure the wounds they received . 
never from that time forth to travel without money and the usual requirements , and he would find the advantage of them when he least expected it . 
The landlord told all the people who were in the inn about the craze of his guest , the watching of the armour , and the dubbing ceremony he contemplated . 
, but seizing it by the straps flung the armour some distance from him . 
This done , he picked up his armour and returned to his beat with the same serenity as before . 
At the noise all the people of the inn ran to the spot , and among them the landlord . 
By this he felt himself so inspired that he would not have flinched if all the carriers in the world had assailed him . 
On girding him with the sword the worthy lady said to him , May God make your worship a very fortunate knight , and grant you success in battle . 
Don Quixote said in reply that she would do him a favour if thenceforward she assumed the Don and called herself Dona Tolosa . 
She promised she would , and then the other buckled on his spur , and with her followed almost the same conversation as with the lady of the sword . 
, and I will make you know that you are behaving as a coward . 
Lies before me , base clown ! said Don Quixote . 
By the sun that shines on us I have a mind to run you through with this lance . 
Pay him at once without another word if not , by the God that rules us I will make an end of you , and annihilate you on the spot release him instantly . 
The farmer hung his head , and without a word untied his servant , of whom Don Quixote asked how much his master owed him . 
He replied , nine months at seven reals a month . 
The difficulty is , Sir Knight , that I have no money here let Andres come home with me , and I will pay him all , real by real . 
I go with him ! said the youth . 
Nay , God forbid ! No , senor , not for the world for once alone with me , he would ray me like a Saint Bartholomew . 
That matters little , replied Don Quixote there may be Haldudos knights moreover , everyone is the son of his works . 
So saying , he gave Rocinante the spur and was soon out of reach . 
But at last he untied him , and gave him leave to go look for his judge in order to put the sentence pronounced into execution . 
He now came to a road branching in four directions , and immediately he was reminded of those cross roads where knights errant used to stop to consider which road they should take . 
There were six of them coming along under their sunshades , with four servants mounted , and three muleteers on foot . 
At last the muleteer was tired , and the traders continued their journey , taking with them matter for talk about the poor fellow who had been cudgelled . 
However , battered in body as he was , to rise was beyond his power . 
, who has brought your worship to this pass ? But to all questions the other only went on with his ballad . 
A curse I say once more , and a hundred times more , on those books of chivalry that have brought your worship to such a pass . 
So , so ! said the curate , are there giants in the dance ? By the sign of the Cross I will burn them to morrow before the day over . 
They did so , and the curate questioned the peasant at great length as to how he had found Don Quixote . 
They all went in , the housekeeper with them , and found more than a hundred volumes of big books very well bound , and some other small ones . 
The first that Master Nicholas put into his hand was The four books of Amadis of Gaul . 
True , said the curate and for that reason let its life be spared for the present . 
Let us see that other which is next to it . 
It is , said the barber , the 'Sergas de Esplandian , the lawful son of Amadis of Gaul . 
Then verily , said the curate , the merit of the father must not be put down to the account of the son . 
Take it , mistress housekeeper open the window and fling it into the yard and lay the foundation of the pile for the bonfire we are to make . 
The housekeeper obeyed with great satisfaction , and the worthy Esplandian went flying into the yard to await with all patience the fire that was in store for him . 
Proceed , said the curate . 
This that comes next , said the barber , is 'Amadis of Greece , and , indeed , I believe all those on this side are of the same Amadis lineage . 
I am of the same mind , said the barber . 
And so am I , added the niece . 
Who is that tub there ? said the curate . 
This , said the barber , is 'Don Olivante de Laura . 
This that follows is 'Florismarte of Hircania , said the barber . 
With all my heart , senor , said she , and executed the order with great delight . 
This , said the barber , is The Knight Platir . 
An old book that , said the curate , but I find no reason for clemency in it send it after the others without appeal which was done . 
Another book was opened , and they saw it was entitled , The Knight of the Cross . 
Taking down another book , the barber said , This is 'The Mirror of Chivalry . 
Well , I have him in Italian , said the barber , but I do not understand him . 
Nay , gossip , said the barber , for this that I have here is the famous 'Don Belianis . 
Nevertheless , I say he who wrote it , for deliberately composing such fooleries , deserves to be sent to the galleys for life . 
Take it home with you and read it , and you will see that what I have said is true . 
The damsel is right , said the curate , and it will be well to put this stumbling block and temptation out of our friend's way . 
To begin , then , with the 'Diana' of Montemayor . 
This book , said the barber , opening another , is the ten books of the 'Fortune of Love , written by Antonio de Lofraso , a Sardinian poet . 
Give it here , gossip , for I make more account of having found it than if they had given me a cassock of Florence stuff . 
He put it aside with extreme satisfaction , and the barber went on , These that come next are 'The Shepherd of Iberia , 'Nymphs of Henares , and 'The Enlightenment of Jealousy . 
This next is the 'Pastor de Filida . 
No Pastor that , said the curate , but a highly polished courtier let it be preserved as a precious jewel . 
This large one here , said the barber , is called 'The Treasury of various Poems . 
This , continued the barber , is the 'Cancionero' of Lopez de Maldonado . 
But what book is that next it ? The 'Galatea' of Miguel de Cervantes , said the barber . 
That Cervantes has been for many years a great friend of mine , and to my knowledge he has had more experience in reverses than in verses . 
But I should not call myself Reinaldos of Montalvan did he not pay me for it in spite of all his enchantments as soon as I rise from this bed . 
They did as he wished they gave him something to eat , and once more he fell asleep , leaving them marvelling at his madness . 
, and they might say that a magician had carried them off , room and all and this was done with all despatch . 
He must have said Friston , said Don Quixote . 
I don't know whether he called himself Friston or Friton , said the housekeeper , I only know that his name ended with 'ton . 
The two were unwilling to make any further answer , as they saw that his anger was kindling . 
The curate sometimes contradicted him , sometimes agreed with him , for if he had not observed this precaution he would have been unable to bring him to reason . 
, but with very little wit in his pate . 
left wife and children , and engaged himself as esquire to his neighbour . 
Don Quixote next set about getting some money and selling one thing and pawning another , and making a bad bargain in every case , he got together a fair sum . 
Above all , he charged him to take alforjas with him . 
The other said he would , and that he meant to take also a very good ass he had , as he was not much given to going on foot . 
Sancho rode on his ass like a patriarch , with his alforjas and bota , and longing to see himself soon governor of the island his master had promised him . 
Well , who doubts it ? said Don Quixote . 
Let me tell you , senor , she is not worth two maravedis for a queen countess will fit her better , and that only with God's help . 
What giants ? said Sancho Panza . 
Those thou seest there , answered his master , with the long arms , and some have them nearly two leagues long . 
Sancho hastened to his assistance as fast as his ass could go , and when he came up found him unable to move , with such a shock had Rocinante fallen with him . 
If so , said Sancho , I have nothing to say but God knows I would rather your worship complained when anything ailed you . 
For my part , I confess I must complain however small the ache may be unless this rule about not complaining extends to the squires of knights errant also . 
Sancho bade him remember it was dinner time , to which his master answered that he wanted nothing himself just then , but that he might eat when he had a mind . 
Don Quixote did not care to break his fast , for , as has been already said , he confined himself to savoury recollections for nourishment . 
They returned to the road they had set out with , leading to Puerto Lapice , and at three in the afternoon they came in sight of it . 
That I grant , said Don Quixote , but in this matter of aiding me against knights thou must put a restraint upon thy natural impetuosity . 
I will do so , I promise you , answered Sancho , and will keep this precept as carefully as Sunday . 
While they were thus talking there appeared on the road two friars of the order of St . 
Benedict , mounted on two dromedaries , for not less tall were the two mules they rode on . 
They wore travelling spectacles and carried sunshades and behind them came a coach attended by four or five persons on horseback and two muleteers on foot . 
This will be worse than the windmills , said Sancho . 
Look , senor those are friars of St . 
Benedict , and the coach plainly belongs to some travellers I tell you to mind well what you are about and don't let the devil mislead you . 
I have told thee already , Sancho , replied Don Quixote , that on the subject of adventures thou knowest little . 
What I say is the truth , as thou shalt see presently . 
Benedict following our road , nor do we know whether or not there are any captive princesses coming in this coach . 
The second brother , seeing how his comrade was treated , drove his heels into his castle of a mule and made off across the country faster than the wind . 
Sancho Panza , when he saw the friar on the ground , dismounting briskly from his ass , rushed towards him and began to strip off his gown . 
At that instant the friars muleteers came up and asked what he was stripping him for . 
Sancho answered them that this fell to him lawfully as spoil of the battle which his lord Don Quixote had won . 
The discovery of it occurred in this way . 
I asked him what he was laughing at , and he replied that it was at something the book had written in the margin by way of a note . 
When I heard Dulcinea del Toboso named , I was struck with surprise and amazement , for it occurred to me at once that these pamphlets contained the history of Don Quixote . 
The terrified and disconsolate ladies , without discussing Don Quixote's demand or asking who Dulcinea might be , promised that their squire should do all that had been commanded . 
Then , on the faith of that promise , said Don Quixote , I shall do him no further harm , though he well deserves it of me . 
Sancho followed him at his ass's best trot , but Rocinante stepped out so that , seeing himself left behind , he was forced to call to his master to wait for him . 
What vial and what balsam is that ? said Sancho Panza . 
Then thou shalt give me to drink but two drops of the balsam I have mentioned , and thou shalt see me become sounder than an apple . 
With less than three reals , six quarts of it may be made , said Don Quixote . 
until I take complete vengeance upon him who has committed such an offence against me . 
I have here an onion and a little cheese and a few scraps of bread , said Sancho , but they are not victuals fit for a valiant knight like your worship . 
A good thing it is , answered Sancho , to know those herbs , for to my thinking it will be needful some day to put that knowledge into practice . 
And here taking out what he said he had brought , the pair made their repast peaceably and sociably . 
Don Quixote seated himself , and Sancho remained standing to serve the cup , which was made of horn . 
The clear streams and running brooks yielded their savoury limpid waters in noble abundance . 
The busy and sagacious bees fixed their republic in the clefts of the rocks and hollows of the trees , offering without usance the plenteous produce of their fragrant toil to every hand . 
Then the love thoughts of the heart clothed themselves simply and naturally as the heart conceived them , nor sought to commend themselves by forced and rambling verbiage . 
Fraud , deceit , or malice had then not yet mingled with truth and sincerity . 
Justice held her ground , undisturbed and unassailed by the efforts of favour and of interest , that now so much impair , pervert , and beset her . 
Arbitrary law had not yet established itself in the mind of the judge , for then there was no cause to judge and no one to be judged . 
Sancho likewise held his peace and ate acorns , and paid repeated visits to the second wine skin , which they had hung up on a cork tree to keep the wine cool . 
ANTONIO'S BALLAD Thou dost love me well , Olalla Well I know it , even though Love's mute tongues , thine eyes , have never By their glances told me so . 
For I know my love thou knowest , Therefore thine to claim I dare Once it ceases to be secret , Love need never feel despair . 
True it is , Olalla , sometimes Thou hast all too plainly shown That thy heart is brass in hardness , And thy snowy bosom stone . 
Yet for all that , in thy coyness , And thy fickle fits between , Hope is there at least the border Of her garment may be seen . 
Lures to faith are they , those glimpses , And to faith in thee I hold Kindness cannot make it stronger , Coldness cannot make it cold . 
If it be that love is gentle , In thy gentleness I see Something holding out assurance To the hope of winning thee . 
If it be that in devotion Lies a power hearts to move , That which every day I show thee , Helpful to my suit should prove . 
Many a time thou must have noticed If to notice thou dost care How I go about on Monday Dressed in all my Sunday wear . 
Love's eyes love to look on brightness Love loves what is gaily drest Sunday , Monday , all I care is Thou shouldst see me in my best . 
'T was a lie , and so I told her , And her cousin at the word Gave me his defiance for it And what followed thou hast heard . 
Mine is no high flown affection , Mine no passion par amours As they call it what I offer Is an honest love , and pure . 
Cunning cords the holy Church has , Cords of softest silk they be Put thy neck beneath the yoke , dear Mine will follow , thou wilt see . 
Else and once for all I swear it By the saint of most renown If I ever quit the mountains , 'T will be in a friar's gown . 
I understand thee , Sancho , replied Don Quixote I perceive clearly that those visits to the wine skin demand compensation in sleep rather than in music . 
It's sweet to us all , blessed be God , said Sancho . 
You mean Marcela ? said one . 
, that was the place where he first saw her . 
And he has also left other directions which the clergy of the village say should not and must not be obeyed because they savour of paganism . 
I am sure it will be something worth seeing at least I will not fail to go and see it even if I knew I should not return to the village tomorrow . 
We will do the same , answered the goatherds , and cast lots to see who must stay to mind the goats of all . 
For all that , we thank thee , answered Pedro . 
Sterility , you mean , said Don Quixote . 
Sterility or estility , answered Pedro , it is all the same in the end . 
That science is called astrology , said Don Quixote . 
I do not know what it is called , replied Pedro , but I know that he knew all this and more besides . 
Say Sarra , said Don Quixote , unable to endure the goatherd's confusion of words . 
That is the truth , said Don Quixote but go on , for the story is very good , and you , good Pedro , tell it with very good grace . 
May that of the Lord not be wanting to me , said Pedro that is the one to have . 
For , said he and he said quite right parents are not to settle children in life against their will . 
One of these , as has been already said , was our deceased friend , of whom they say that he did not love but adore her . 
Here one shepherd is sighing , there another is lamenting there love songs are heard , here despairing elegies . 
I will make a point of it , said Don Quixote , and I thank you for the pleasure you have given me by relating so interesting a tale . 
Sancho Panza , who was wishing the goatherd's loquacity at the devil , on his part begged his master to go into Pedro's hut to sleep . 
He did so , and passed all the rest of the night in thinking of his lady Dulcinea , in imitation of the lovers of Marcela . 
Sancho Panza settled himself between Rocinante and his ass , and slept , not like a lover who had been discarded , but like a man who had been soundly kicked . 
So I think too , replied Vivaldo , and I would delay not to say a day , but four , for the sake of seeing it . 
Don Quixote asked them what it was they had heard of Marcela and Chrysostom . 
In short , he repeated all that Pedro had related to Don Quixote . 
As austere it may perhaps be , replied our Don Quixote , but so necessary for the world I am very much inclined to doubt . 
For , if the truth is to be told , the soldier who executes what his captain orders does no less than the captain himself who gives the order . 
Thus are we God's ministers on earth and the arms by which his justice is done therein . 
Moreover , it is my belief that all knights errant have not ladies to commend themselves to , for they are not all in love . 
We should like to know her lineage , race , and ancestry , said Vivaldo . 
This is the place , answered Ambrosia for in it many a time did my poor friend tell me the story of his hard fortune . 
Vivaldo , who was eager to see what the papers contained , opened one of them at once , and saw that its title was Lay of Despair . 
For , though it be to solitudes remote The hoarse vague echoes of my sorrows sound Thy matchless cruelty , my dismal fate Shall carry them to all the spacious world . 
But I , by some strange miracle , live on A prey to absence , jealousy , disdain Racked by suspicion as by certainty Forgotten , left to feed my flame alone . 
But , woe is me ! triumphant over all , My sufferings drown the memory of you . 
And now I die , and since there is no hope Of happiness for me in life or death , Still to my fantasy I'll fondly cling . 
I'll say that he is wise who loveth well , And that the soul most free is that most bound In thraldom to the ancient tyrant Love . 
Fool that I am to bid thee ! well I know Thy glory gains by my untimely end . 
Chant in their deepest tones a doleful dirge Over a corse unworthy of a shroud . 
Let the three headed guardian of the gate , And all the monstrous progeny of hell , The doleful concert join a lover dead Methinks can have no fitter obsequies . 
Lay of despair , grieve not when thou art gone Forth from this sorrowing heart my misery Brings fortune to the cause that gave thee birth Then banish sadness even in the tomb . 
I am a fire afar off , a sword laid aside . 
He was persistent in spite of warning , he despaired without being hated . 
Bethink you now if it be reasonable that his suffering should be laid to my charge . 
It has not been so far the will of Heaven that I should love by fate , and to expect me to love by choice is idle . 
Ungrateful , cruel , coy , and fair , Was she that drove him to despair , And Love hath made her his ally For spreading wide his tyranny . 
But in how many does your worship think we shall have the use of our feet ? answered Sancho Panza . 
See if your worship can get up , and let us help Rocinante , though he does not deserve it , for he was the main cause of all this thrashing . 
I never thought it of Rocinante , for I took him to be a virtuous person and as quiet as myself . 
After all , they say right that it takes a long time to come to know people , and that there is nothing sure in this life . 
It may be true that he went mounted as your worship says , answered Sancho , but there is a great difference between going mounted and going slung like a sack of manure . 
Sancho answered that it was nothing , only that he had fallen down from a rock and had his ribs a little bruised . 
It was not blows , Sancho said , but that the rock had many points and projections , and that each of them had left its mark . 
Pray , senora , he added , manage to save some tow , as there will be no want of some one to use it , for my loins too are rather sore . 
Then you must have fallen too , said the hostess . 
How is the gentleman called ? asked Maritornes the Asturian . 
What is a knight adventurer ? said the lass . 
Are you so new in the world as not to know ? answered Sancho Panza . 
The inn was all in silence , and in the whole of it there was no light except that given by a lantern that hung burning in the middle of the gateway . 
With this suspicion he got up , and lighting a lamp hastened to the quarter where he had heard the disturbance . 
The innkeeper came in exclaiming , Where art thou , strumpet ? Of course this is some of thy work . 
I swear it , answered Sancho . 
I say so , continued Don Quixote , because I hate taking away anyone's good name . 
Not for me either , said Sancho , for more than four hundred Moors have so thrashed me that the drubbing of the stakes was cakes and fancy bread to it . 
Then thou hast been thrashed too ? said Don Quixote . 
Didn't I say so ? worse luck to my line ! said Sancho . 
Be not distressed , friend , said Don Quixote , for I will now make the precious balsam with which we shall cure ourselves in the twinkling of an eye . 
If they don't let themselves be seen , they let themselves be felt , said Sancho if not , let my shoulders speak to the point . 
Mine could speak too , said Don Quixote , but that is not a sufficient reason for believing that what we see is the enchanted Moor . 
Sancho Panza , who also regarded the amendment of his master as miraculous , begged him to give him what was left in the pigskin , which was no small quantity . 
Don Quixote consented , and he , taking it with both hands , in good faith and with a better will , gulped down and drained off very little less than his master . 
He sweated and perspired with such paroxysms and convulsions that not only he himself but all present thought his end had come . 
This tempest and tribulation lasted about two hours , at the end of which he was left , not like his master , but so weak and exhausted that he could not stand . 
Then this is an inn ? said Don Quixote . 
And a very respectable one , said the innkeeper . 
At this the innkeeper waxed very wroth , and threatened if he did not pay to compel him in a way that he would not like . 
He saw him rising and falling in the air with such grace and nimbleness that , had his rage allowed him , it is my belief he would have laughed . 
, and with drinking two drops of it thou wilt certainly be restored . 
It is true that the innkeeper detained his alforjas in payment of what was owing to him , but Sancho took his departure in such a flurry that he never missed them . 
Fear not that , Sancho , said Don Quixote Heaven will deal better by thee . 
Seest thou that cloud of dust which rises yonder ? Well , then , all that is churned up by a vast army composed of various and countless nations that comes marching there . 
According to that there must be two , said Sancho , for on this opposite side also there rises just such another cloud of dust . 
By my beard , said Sancho , but Pentapolin does quite right , and I will help him as much as I can . 
In that thou wilt do what is thy duty , Sancho , said Don Quixote for to engage in battles of this sort it is not requisite to be a dubbed knight . 
So saying , he dashed into the midst of the squadron of ewes , and began spearing them with as much spirit and intrepidity as if he were transfixing mortal enemies in earnest . 
Here came a sugar plum from the brook that struck him on the side and buried a couple of ribs in his body . 
Such was the force of the first blow and of the second , that the poor knight in spite of himself came down backwards off his horse . 
Yes , they are missing , answered Sancho . 
In that case we have nothing to eat to day , replied Don Quixote . 
Your worship would make a better preacher than knight errant , said Sancho . 
Mind what you are saying , senor . 
Mount , friend , and lead the way , and I will follow thee at whatever pace thou wilt . 
Sancho did as he bade him , and proceeded in the direction in which he thought he might find refuge without quitting the high road , which was there very much frequented . 
Why ! have I taken an oath of some sort , then ? said Sancho . 
And as the encamisados came along they muttered to themselves in a low plaintive tone . 
did so , for all Sancho's resolution had now broken down . 
It was just the opposite with his master , whose imagination immediately conjured up all this to him vividly as one of the adventures of his books . 
The mule was shy , and was so frightened at her bridle being seized that rearing up she flung her rider to the ground over her haunches . 
Sancho beheld all this in astonishment at the intrepidity of his lord , and said to himself , Clearly this master of mine is as bold and valiant as he says he is . 
Then what the devil brought you here , being a churchman ? said Don Quixote . 
What , senor ? said the other . 
Then still worse awaits you , said Don Quixote , if you do not satisfy me as to all I asked you at first . 
And who killed him ? asked Don Quixote . 
God , by means of a malignant fever that took him , answered the bachelor . 
The bachelor then took his departure . 
, hunger and the loss of your grinders have given you such an ill favoured face that , as I say , the rueful picture may be very well spared . 
Don Quixote laughed at Sancho's pleasantry nevertheless he resolved to call himself by that name , and have his shield or buckler painted as he had devised . 
had brought with them on their sumpter mule . 
What art thou talking about dismounting or sleeping for ? said Don Quixote . 
Go on with thy story , Sancho , said Don Quixote , and leave the choice of our road to my care . 
Tell it as thou wilt , replied Don Quixote and as fate will have it that I cannot help listening to thee , go on . 
Then you knew her ? said Don Quixote . 
Torralva , when she found herself spurned by Lope , was immediately smitten with love for him , though she had never loved him before . 
That is the natural way of women , said Don Quixote , to scorn the one that loves them , and love the one that hates them go on , Sancho . 
How many have gone across so far ? said Sancho . 
How the devil do I know ? replied Don Quixote . 
So , then , said Don Quixote , the story has come to an end ? As much as my mother has , said Sancho . 
But I do not wonder , for perhaps those ceaseless strokes may have confused thy wits . 
Once more he tried his luck , and succeeded so well , that without any further noise or disturbance he found himself relieved of the burden that had given him so much discomfort . 
Very likely , said Sancho , but that's not my fault , but your worship's , for leading me about at unseasonable hours and at such unwonted paces . 
I'll bet , replied Sancho , that your worship thinks I have done something I ought not with my person . 
It makes it worse to stir it , friend Sancho , returned Don Quixote . 
Don Quixote , then , observing that Rocinante could move , took it as a good sign and a signal that he should attempt the dread adventure . 
Sancho began to weep afresh on again hearing the affecting words of his good master , and resolved to stay with him until the final issue and end of the business . 
six fulling hammers which by their alternate strokes made all the din . 
When Don Quixote perceived what it was , he was struck dumb and rigid from head to foot . 
Well , then , if you are joking I am not , replied Don Quixote . 
No more of that , senor , returned Sancho I own I went a little too far with the joke . 
By so doing , replied Don Quixote , shalt thou live long on the face of the earth for next to parents , masters are to be respected as though they were parents . 
I say this because , if I mistake not , there comes towards us one who wears on his head the helmet of Mambrino , concerning which I took the oath thou rememberest . 
I will take care to stand aside , said Sancho but God grant , I say once more , that it may be marjoram and not fulling mills . 
Sancho held his peace in dread lest his master should carry out the vow he had hurled like a bowl at him . 
The fact of the matter as regards the helmet , steed , and knight that Don Quixote saw , was this . 
When Sancho heard him call the basin a headpiece he was unable to restrain his laughter , but remembering his master's wrath he checked himself in the midst of it . 
What art thou laughing at , Sancho ? said Don Quixote . 
I am laughing , said he , to think of the great head the pagan must have had who owned this helmet , for it looks exactly like a regular barber's basin . 
It does not grieve me much to have lost it , said Don Quixote , for thou knowest , Sancho , that I have the receipt in my memory . 
Say , on , Sancho , said Don Quixote , and be brief in thy discourse , for there is no pleasure in one that is long . 
The father dies , the princess inherits , and in two words the knight becomes king . 
And here comes in at once the bestowal of rewards upon his squire and all who have aided him in rising to so exalted a rank . 
That's what I want , and no mistake about it ! said Sancho . 
That's what I'm waiting for for all this , word for word , is in store for your worship under the title of the Knight of the Rueful Countenance . 
Nobody can object to that , said Don Quixote . 
Then since that may be , said Sancho , there is nothing for it but to commend ourselves to God , and let fortune take what course it will . 
God guide it according to my wishes and thy wants , said Don Quixote , and mean be he who thinks himself mean . 
In God's name let him be so , said Sancho I am an old Christian , and to fit me for a count that's enough . 
Not a doubt of it and I'll know how to support the tittle , said Sancho . 
Title thou shouldst say , not tittle , said his master . 
So be it , answered Sancho . 
Why , how dost thou know that noblemen have equerries behind them ? asked Don Quixote . 
I will tell you , answered Sancho . 
Let the barber business be my look out , said Sancho and your worship's be it to strive to become a king , and make me a count . 
So it shall be , answered Don Quixote , and raising his eyes he saw what will be told in the following chapter . 
In fact , replied Don Quixote , however it may be , these people are going where they are taking them by force , and not of their own will . 
Just so , said Sancho . 
Then if so , said Don Quixote , here is a case for the exercise of my office , to put down force and to succour and help the wretched . 
Recollect , your worship , said Sancho , Justice , which is the king himself , is not using force or doing wrong to such persons , but punishing them for their crimes . 
He made answer that it was for being a lover . 
For that only ? replied Don Quixote why , if for being lovers they send people to the galleys I might have been rowing in them long ago . 
What are gurapas ? asked Don Quixote . 
Gurapas are galleys , answered the galley slave , who was a young man of about four and twenty , and said he was a native of Piedrahita . 
On the contrary , I have heard say , said Don Quixote , that he who sings scares away his woes . 
Here it is the reverse , said the galley slave for he who sings once weeps all his life . 
I will give twenty with pleasure to get you out of that trouble , said Don Quixote . 
But God is great patience there , that's enough of it . 
That means , said Sancho Panza , as I take it , to have been exposed to shame in public . 
Don Quixote went on and asked another what his crime was , and the man answered with no less but rather much more sprightliness than the last one . 
This one was in the dress of a student , and one of the guards said he was a great talker and a very elegant Latin scholar . 
Behind all these there came a man of thirty , a very personable fellow , except that when he looked , his eyes turned in a little one towards the other . 
Don Quixote asked why this man carried so many more chains than the others . 
Speak with less impertinence , master thief of extra measure , replied the commissary , if you don't want me to make you hold your tongue in spite of your teeth . 
Don't they call you so , you liar ? said the guard . 
They do , returned Gines , but I will make them give over calling me so , or I will be shaved , where , I only say behind my teeth . 
And I mean to take it out of pawn , said Gines , though it were in for two hundred ducats . 
Is it so good ? said Don Quixote . 
And how is the book entitled ? asked Don Quixote . 
The 'Life of Gines de Pasamonte , replied the subject of it . 
And is it finished ? asked Don Quixote . 
Then you have been there before ? said Don Quixote . 
You seem a clever fellow , said Don Quixote . 
And an unfortunate one , replied Gines , for misfortune always persecutes good wit . 
It persecutes rogues , said the commissary . 
Sancho planted himself behind his ass , and with him sheltered himself from the hailstorm that poured on both of them . 
They then stripped him of a jacket that he wore over his armour , and they would have stripped off his stockings if his greaves had not prevented them . 
If I had believed thy words , I should have avoided this trouble but it is done now , it is only to have patience and take warning for the future . 
While Sancho slept he stole his ass , and before day dawned he was far out of reach . 
Sancho took comfort at this , dried his tears , suppressed his sobs , and returned thanks for the kindness shown him by Don Quixote . 
He on his part was rejoiced to the heart on entering the mountains , as they seemed to him to be just the place for the adventures he was in quest of . 
Sancho kissed his hands for the favour , and cleared the valise of its linen , which he stowed away in the provision sack . 
That cannot be , answered Sancho , because if they had been robbers they would not have left this money . 
To him who knows not whence his malady A miracle alone a cure can give . 
There is nothing to be learned from that rhyme , said Sancho , unless by that clue there's in it , one may draw out the ball of the whole matter . 
What clue is there ? said Don Quixote . 
I thought your worship spoke of a clue in it , said Sancho . 
Read more , your worship , said Sancho , and you will find something that will enlighten us . 
Don Quixote turned the page and said , This is prose and seems to be a letter . 
A correspondence letter , senor ? From the beginning it seems to be a love letter , replied Don Quixote . 
Then let your worship read it aloud , said Sancho , for I am very fond of love matters . 
What thy beauty raised up thy deeds have laid low by it I believed thee to be an angel , by them I know thou art a woman . 
Don Quixote called aloud to him and begged him to come down to where they stood . 
Sancho in return bade him come down , and they would explain all to him . 
He thanked us for the offer , begged pardon for the late assault , and promised for the future to ask it in God's name without offering violence to anybody . 
, or learn when he is in his senses who he is , and if he has relatives to whom we may give notice of his misfortune . 
Approaching them , the youth greeted them in a harsh and hoarse voice but with great courtesy . 
To be brief , the first to speak after embracing was the Ragged One , and he said what will be told farther on . 
This Luscinda I loved , worshipped , and adored from my earliest and tenderest years , and she loved me in all the innocence and sincerity of childhood . 
This Duke Ricardo , as you , sirs , probably know already , is a grandee of Spain who has his seat in the best part of this Andalusia . 
I extolled her beauty , her gaiety , her wit , so warmly , that my praises excited in him a desire to see a damsel adorned by such attractions . 
To my misfortune I yielded to it , showing her to him one night by the light of a taper at a window where we used to talk to one another . 
Don Fernando contrived always to read the letters I sent to Luscinda and her answers to me , under the pretence that he enjoyed the wit and sense of both . 
Strange to say , he stood up for her as if she were in earnest his veritable born lady to such a pass had his unholy books brought him . 
The goatherd replied that he had said so , and that if he had not heard him , that was no fault of his . 
That is true , said Don Quixote , but I know that he is not to blame for what has happened . 
With this he pacified them , and again asked the goatherd if it would be possible to find Cardenio , as he felt the greatest anxiety to know the end of his story . 
On my diligence ! said Sancho . 
This , then , being so , I consider , friend Sancho , that the knight errant who shall imitate him most closely will come nearest to reaching the perfection of chivalry . 
Thus talking they reached the foot of a high mountain which stood like an isolated peak among the others that surrounded it . 
But what more have I to see besides what I have seen ? said Sancho . 
Much thou knowest about it ! said Don Quixote . 
Purgatory dost thou call it , Sancho ? said Don Quixote , rather call it hell , or even worse if there be anything worse . 
For one who is in hell , said Sancho , nulla est retentio , as I have heard say . 
I do not understand what retentio means , said Don Quixote . 
That is true , said he of the Rueful Countenance , but how shall we manage to write the letter ? And the ass colt order too , added Sancho . 
But what is to be done about the signature ? said Sancho . 
The letters of Amadis were never signed , said Don Quixote . 
I know her well , said Sancho , and let me tell you she can fling a crowbar as well as the lustiest lad in all the town . 
In the same way , Sancho , for all I want with Dulcinea del Toboso she is just as good as the most exalted princess on earth . 
It is not to be supposed that all those poets who sang the praises of ladies under the fancy names they give them , had any such mistresses . 
I say that your worship is entirely right , said Sancho , and that I am an ass . 
Thine till death , The Knight of the Rueful Countenance . 
By the life of my father , said Sancho , when he heard the letter , it is the loftiest thing I ever heard . 
Body of me ! how your worship says everything as you like in it ! And how well you fit in 'The Knight of the Rueful Countenance' into the signature . 
I declare your worship is indeed the very devil , and there is nothing you don't know . 
Everything is needed for the calling I follow , said Don Quixote . 
Done in the heart of the Sierra Morena , the twenty seventh of August of this present year . 
That will do , said Sancho now let your worship sign it . 
Did I not tell thee so ? said Don Quixote . 
And so , now to business come to my memory ye deeds of Amadis , and show me how I am to begin to imitate you . 
The lealest lover time can show , Doomed for a lady love to languish , Among these solitudes doth go , A prey to every kind of anguish . 
He wrote many more , but , as has been said , these three verses were all that could be plainly and perfectly deciphered . 
As for him , coming out upon the high road , he made for El Toboso , and the next day reached the inn where the mishap of the blanket had befallen him . 
They then asked Sancho Panza to show them the letter he was carrying to the lady Dulcinea del Toboso . 
He said it was written in a note book , and that his master's directions were that he should have it copied on paper at the first village he came to . 
On this the curate said if he showed it to him , he himself would make a fair copy of it . 
Seeing this , the curate and the barber asked him what had happened him that he gave himself such rough treatment . 
Repeat it then , Sancho , said the barber , and we will write it down afterwards . 
It cannot have said 'scrubbing , said the barber , but 'superhuman' or 'sovereign . 
They left him and went in , and presently the barber brought him out something to eat . 
They approved of what Sancho proposed , and resolved to wait for him until he brought back word of having found his master . 
What bids me to abandon hope of ease ? Jealousies . 
What holds my heart in anguish of suspense ? Absence . 
What at my glory ever looks askance ? Chance . 
Whence is permission to afflict me given ? Heaven . 
What must I do to find a remedy ? Die . 
What is the lure for love when coy and strange ? Change . 
What , if all fail , will cure the heart of sadness ? Madness . 
If that be so , it is but folly To seek a cure for melancholy Ask where it lies the answer saith In Change , in Madness , or in Death . 
Friendship , return to us , or force the cheat That wears it now , thy livery to restore , By aid whereof sincerity is slain . 
If thou wilt not unmask thy counterfeit , This earth will be the prey of strife once more , As when primaeval discord held its reign . 
To all this Don Fernando answered that he would take it upon himself to speak to my father , and persuade him to speak to Luscinda's father . 
That night I spoke with Luscinda , and told her what had been agreed upon with Don Fernando , and how I had strong hopes of our fair and reasonable wishes being realised . 
I was astonished at this unusual turn , which I never before observed in her . 
All the while the good natured improvised courier was telling me this , I hung upon his words , my legs trembling under me so that I could scarcely stand . 
Picture to yourself the state I am in judge if it be urgent for you to come the issue of the affair will show you whether I love you or not . 
God grant this may come to your hand before mine shall be forced to link itself with his who keeps so ill the faith that he has pledged . 
She recognised me at once , and I her , but not as she ought to have recognised me , or I her . 
But who is there in the world that can boast of having fathomed or understood the wavering mind and unstable nature of a woman ? Of a truth no one . 
I think she could not have heard all these words , for I perceived that they called her away in haste , as the bridegroom was waiting . 
Now the night of my sorrow set in , the sun of my happiness went down , I felt my eyes bereft of sight , my mind of reason . 
The bridegroom then approached to embrace his bride and she , pressing her hand upon her heart , fell fainting in her mother's arms . 
Taken by surprise and bewildered , she made no reply to these words . 
But to shorten the long recital of my woes , I will pass over in silence all the artifices employed by Don Fernando for declaring his passion for me . 
But proceed by and by I may tell you something that will astonish you as much as it will excite your compassion . 
Cardenio heard the name of Luscinda , but he only shrugged his shoulders , bit his lips , bent his brows , and before long two streams of tears escaped from his eyes . 
I reached my destination in two days and a half , and on entering the city inquired for the house of Luscinda's parents . 
All this passed through my mind , and I strove to comfort myself without comfort , indulging in faint and distant hopes of cherishing that life that I now abhor . 
With these words she became silent , and the colour that overspread her face showed plainly the pain and shame she was suffering at heart . 
At this moment they heard a shout , and recognised it as coming from Sancho Panza , who , not finding them where he had left them , was calling aloud to them . 
The licentiate in reply told him not to be uneasy , for they would fetch him away in spite of himself . 
All this , and more , she said , she had taken from home in case of need , but that until then she had had no occasion to make use of it . 
They were all highly delighted with her grace , air , and beauty , and declared Don Fernando to be a man of very little taste when he rejected such charms . 
She is called the Princess Micomicona , said the curate for as her kingdom is Micomicon , it is clear that must be her name . 
I will not answer a word , beauteous lady , replied Don Quixote , nor will I listen to anything further concerning you , until you rise from the earth . 
I will not rise , senor , answered the afflicted damsel , unless of your courtesy the boon I ask is first granted me . 
And so it is , said the curate , and he promised to teach it to him on the first opportunity . 
She , being ready on all points , understood that she was to answer Yes , so she said Yes , senor , my way lies towards that kingdom . 
These , then , said the curate , were they who robbed us and God in his mercy pardon him who would not let them go to the punishment they deserved . 
It only concerns them to aid them as persons in need of help , having regard to their sufferings and not to their rascalities . 
That I swear heartily , said the curate , and I would have even plucked off a moustache . 
It will not be wearisome , senora , said Don Quixote to which Dorothea replied , Well , if that be so , give me your attention . 
'Don Quixote , he must have said , senora , observed Sancho at this , otherwise called the Knight of the Rueful Countenance . 
What does your worship want to strip for ? said Dorothea . 
To see if I have that mole your father spoke of , answered Don Quixote . 
That is what I meant to say , said Dorothea . 
And that would be only natural , said the curate . 
What thinkest thou now , friend Sancho ? said Don Quixote at this . 
A poor chance I have of getting that county I am waiting for if your worship goes looking for dainties in the bottom of the sea . 
As to beauty , I have nothing to do with it and if the truth is to be told , I like them both though I have never seen the lady Dulcinea . 
Now I forgive thee , said Don Quixote and do thou forgive me the injury I have done thee for our first impulses are not in our control . 
For all that , Sancho , said Don Quixote , take heed of what thou sayest , for the pitcher goes so often to the well I need say no more to thee . 
Why dost thou say that , Sancho ? said Don Quixote . 
The ass held his peace , and let himself be kissed and caressed by Sancho without answering a single word . 
So I saw , said the curate , and for that reason I made haste to say what I did , by which it was all set right . 
Senor , replied Sancho , if the truth is to be told , nobody copied out the letter for me , for I carried no letter at all . 
And hast thou got it still in thy memory , Sancho ? said Don Quixote . 
CHAPTER XXXI OF THE DELECTABLE DISCUSSION BETWEEN DON QUIXOTE AND SANCHO PANZA , HIS SQUIRE , TOGETHER WITH OTHER INCIDENTS All that is not unsatisfactory to me , said Don Quixote . 
I did not , said Sancho , but I found her winnowing two bushels of wheat in the yard of her house . 
And so lofty she is , said Sancho , that she overtops me by more than a hand's breadth . 
And if it were not for this , knights errant would not be able to give aid to one another in peril , as they do at every turn . 
That must have been it , said Sancho , for indeed Rocinante went like a gipsy's ass with quicksilver in his ears . 
Ah ! what a sad state your worship's brains are in ! said Sancho . 
Look here , Sancho , said Don Quixote . 
The devil take thee for a clown ! said Don Quixote , and what shrewd things thou sayest at times ! One would think thou hadst studied . 
In faith , then , I cannot even read . 
Master Nicholas here called out to them to wait a while , as they wanted to halt and drink at a little spring there was there . 
Cardenio had now put on the clothes which Dorothea was wearing when they found her , and though they were not very good , they were far better than those he put off . 
As soon as I saw him I asked the reason of so cruel a flagellation . 
The master made I know not what speeches and explanations , which , though I listened to them , I did not accept . 
In short , I compelled the clown to unbind him , and to swear he would take him with him , and pay him real by real , and perfumed into the bargain . 
All that your worship has said is quite true , answered the lad but the end of the business turned out just the opposite of what your worship supposes . 
That is true , said Andres but it was of no use . 
Dorothea asked him what he meant to do . 
Andres seized his bread and cheese , and seeing that nobody gave him anything more , bent his head , and took hold of the road , as the saying is . 
On this the barber cheerfully restored the tail to the landlady , and at the same time they returned all the accessories they had borrowed to effect Don Quixote's deliverance . 
All the people of the inn were struck with astonishment at the beauty of Dorothea , and even at the comely figure of the shepherd Cardenio . 
The curate made them get ready such fare as there was in the inn , and the landlord , in hope of better payment , served them up a tolerably good dinner . 
All this time Don Quixote was asleep , and they thought it best not to waken him , as sleeping would now do him more good than eating . 
And you , what do you think , young lady ? said the curate turning to the landlord's daughter . 
Then you would console them if it was for you they wept , young lady ? said Dorothea . 
I don't know what is the good of such prudery if it is for honour's sake , why not marry them ? That's all they want . 
Hush , child , said the landlady it seems to me thou knowest a great deal about these things , and it is not fit for girls to know or talk so much . 
As the gentleman asked me , I could not help answering him , said the girl . 
Well then , said the curate , bring me these books , senor landlord , for I should like to see them . 
When the curate read the two first titles he looked over at the barber and said , We want my friend's housekeeper and niece here now . 
Nay , said the barber , I can do just as well to carry them to the yard or to the hearth , and there is a very good fire there . 
What ! your worship would burn my books ! said the landlord . 
Only these two , said the curate , Don Cirongilio , and Felixmarte . 
Are my books , then , heretics or phlegmaties that you want to burn them ? said the landlord . 
Schismatics you mean , friend , said the barber , not phlegmatics . 
Tell that to my father , said the landlord . 
Hold your peace , senor for if you were to hear this you would go mad with delight . 
You are very right , friend , said the curate but for all that , if the novel pleases me you must let me copy it . 
With all my heart , replied the host . 
I would read it , said the curate , if the time would not be better spent in sleeping . 
Well then , in that case , said the curate , I will read it , if it were only out of curiosity perhaps it may contain something pleasant . 
They were unmarried , young , of the same age and of the same tastes , which was enough to account for the reciprocal friendship between them . 
, may be easily managed in the house of the female friend or relative in whom most confidence is reposed . 
It happened , however , that on one occasion when the two were strolling together outside the city , Anselmo addressed the following words to Lothario . 
Be it so , said Anselmo , say what thou wilt . 
Moreover by what I am about to say to thee thou wilt be led to see the great error thou wouldst commit . 
A virtuous woman , too , is like a mirror , of clear shining crystal , liable to be tarnished and dimmed by every breath that touches it . 
She must be treated as relics are adored , not touched . 
This , then , all may hold as true , And the reason's plain to see For if Danaes there be , There are golden showers too . 
That night , however , he thought of a plan by which he might deceive Anselmo without any injury to Camilla . 
At the same time he bade Camilla not to leave Lothario alone until he came back . 
In short he contrived to put so good a face on the reason , or the folly , of his absence that no one could have suspected it was a pretence . 
Anselmo took his departure , and Camilla and Lothario were left alone at the table , for the rest of the household had gone to dinner . 
So far well , said Anselmo Camilla has thus far resisted words we must now see how she will resist deeds . 
Lothario replied that now he had begun he would carry on the undertaking to the end , though he perceived he was to come out of it wearied and vanquished . 
So Fate that ever scorns to grant Or grace or boon to me , Since what can never be I want , Denies me what might be . 
Anselmo replied that it was his pleasure to have it so , and that she had only to submit and obey . 
Camilla said she would do so , though against her will . 
, and whom she had kept with her after her marriage with Anselmo . 
But already the delight he found in gazing on her interposed and held him fast . 
Lothario observed all this , and it inflamed him all the more . 
In fact with the utmost assiduity he undermined the rock of her purity with such engines that had Camilla been of brass she must have fallen . 
Leonela alone knew of her mistress's weakness , for the two false friends and new lovers were unable to conceal it . 
A few days later Anselmo returned to his house and did not perceive what it had lost , that which he so lightly treated and so highly prized . 
He went at once to see Lothario , and found him at home they embraced each other , and Anselmo asked for the tidings of his life or his death . 
That will not be necessary , said Lothario , for the muses are not such enemies of mine but that they visit me now and then in the course of the year . 
And when the light of day returning dyes The portals of the east with tints of rose , With undiminished force my sorrow flows In broken accents and in burning sighs . 
Yet ever in my agony it seems To me that neither Heaven nor Chloris hears . 
The sonnet pleased Camilla , and still more Anselmo , for he praised it and said the lady was excessively cruel who made no return for sincerity so manifest . 
This like some holy relic do I prize To save me from the fate my truth entails , Truth that to thy hard heart its vigour owes . 
Alas for him that under lowering skies , In peril o'er a trackless ocean sails , Where neither friendly port nor pole star shows . 
I fear that he will think ill of my pliancy or lightness , not considering the irresistible influence he brought to bear upon me . 
They say also , said Camilla , that what costs little is valued less . 
He cursed his want of sense , condemned his hasty resolution , and knew not what course to take to undo the mischief or find some ready escape from it . 
Lothario pressed her to explain her intention fully , so that he might with more certainty and precaution take care to do what he saw to be needful . 
Summon him , make haste , for all the time I delay in taking vengeance for my wrong seems to me an offence against the loyalty I owe my husband . 
that Camilla not only preserved her allegiance to her husband , but avenged him of the man who dared to wrong him . 
Still , I think it might be better to disclose this to Anselmo . 
But why do I argue thus ? Does a bold determination stand in need of arguments ? Surely not . 
Then traitors avaunt ! Vengeance to my aid ! Let the false one come , approach , advance , die , yield up his life , and then befall what may . 
Answer me this , without embarrassment or reflecting deeply what thou wilt answer , for they are no riddles I put to thee . 
How then can I know , my dear ? said Camilla , for I should not dare to forge or keep up a falsehood if my life depended on it . 
If we can think of no escape from this difficulty , it will be better to tell him the plain truth than that he should find us out in an untrue story . 
Compose yourself , senora , and endeavour to calm your excitement lest my lord find you agitated and leave the rest to my care and God's , who always supports good intentions . 
Lothario commended his purpose , and promised on his own part to aid him in raising a monument so glorious . 
And so Anselmo was left the most charmingly hoodwinked man there could be in the world . 
What are you talking about , brother ? said the curate , pausing as he was about to read the remainder of the novel . 
Dorothea , seeing how short and slight his attire was , would not go in to witness the battle between her champion and her opponent . 
What blood and fountains are you talking about , enemy of God and his saints ? said the landlord . 
Did not I say so ? said Sancho on hearing this . 
Dorothea said she fully believed it , and that he need not be uneasy , for all would go well and turn out as he wished . 
All therefore being appeased , the curate was anxious to go on with the novel , as he saw there was but little more left to read . 
Anselmo would not believe it , but blind with rage drew a dagger and threatened to stab Leonela , bidding her tell the truth or he would kill her . 
Tell me then at once or thou diest , said Anselmo . 
The state of perplexity to which Camilla reduced Lothario was such that he was unable to utter a word in reply , still less to decide upon what he should do . 
He returned , uneasy , to tell Camilla , but not finding her in bed or anywhere in the house he was lost in amazement . 
He asked the servants of the house about her , but none of them could give him any explanation . 
He knew not what to think , or say , or do , and his reason seemed to be deserting him little by little . 
After long reflection he resolved at last to go to his friend's village , where he had been staying when he afforded opportunities for the contrivance of this complication of misfortune . 
All this has been told by a maid servant of Camilla's , whom the governor found last night lowering herself by a sheet from the windows of Anselmo's house . 
God speed you , senor , said Anselmo . 
God be with you , said the citizen and went his way . 
This disastrous intelligence almost robbed Anselmo not only of his senses but of his life . 
Anselmo at once begged to be allowed to retire to rest , and to be given writing materials . 
His wish was complied with and he was left lying down and alone , for he desired this , and even that the door should be locked . 
On learning this Camilla took the veil , and shortly afterwards died , worn out by grief and melancholy . 
This was the end of all three , an end that came of a thoughtless beginning . 
If it had been represented as occurring between a gallant and his mistress it might pass but between husband and wife there is something of an impossibility about it . 
As to the way in which the story is told , however , I have no fault to find . 
What are they ? said Cardenio . 
Are they very near ? said the curate . 
So near , answered the landlord , that here they come . 
The attendants on foot then led the horses away to the stable . 
And the lady , who is she ? asked the curate . 
And have you heard any of them called by his name ? asked the curate . 
Don Fernando , too , knew Cardenio at once and all three , Luscinda , Cardenio , and Dorothea , stood in silent amazement scarcely knowing what had happened to them . 
They gazed at one another without speaking , Dorothea at Don Fernando , Don Fernando at Cardenio , Cardenio at Luscinda , and Luscinda at Cardenio . 
Nevertheless , I would not have thee suppose that I have come here driven by my shame it is only grief and sorrow at seeing myself forgotten by thee that have led me . 
It was thy will to make me thine , and thou didst so follow thy will , that now , even though thou repentest , thou canst not help being mine . 
Bethink thee , my lord , the unsurpassable affection I bear thee may compensate for the beauty and noble birth for which thou wouldst desert me . 
A strange sight was this for Don Fernando and those that stood around , filled with surprise at an incident so unlooked for . 
Even Sancho Panza was weeping though afterwards he said he only wept because he saw that Dorothea was not as he fancied the queen Micomicona , of whom he expected such great favours . 
The next day he learned that Luscinda had disappeared from her father's house , and that no one could tell whither she had gone . 
Dorothea was unable to persuade herself that her present happiness was not all a dream Cardenio was in a similar state of mind , and Luscinda's thoughts ran in the same direction . 
Cardenio proposed to carry out the scheme they had begun , and suggested that Luscinda would act and support Dorothea's part sufficiently well . 
It is not more than two days' journey from this , said the curate . 
Even if it were more , said Don Fernando , I would gladly travel so far for the sake of doing so good a work . 
I have a mind to play the mischief with thee , in a way that will teach sense for the future to all lying squires of knights errant in the world . 
I tell thee again , Sancho , thou art a fool , said Don Quixote forgive me , and that will do . 
perhaps you will have found worse accommodation in the course of your journey . 
From her silence they concluded that she must be a Moor and unable to speak a Christian tongue . 
In dress and outwardly , said he , she is a Moor , but at heart she is a thoroughly good Christian , for she has the greatest desire to become one . 
Then she has not been baptised ? returned Luscinda . 
Dorothea took the Moorish lady by the hand and leading her to a seat beside herself , requested her to remove her veil . 
She looked at the captive as if to ask him what they meant and what she was to do . 
And as it is the privilege and charm of beauty to win the heart and secure good will , all forthwith became eager to show kindness and attention to the lovely Moor . 
Luscinda embraced her affectionately , saying , Yes , yes , Maria , Maria , to which the Moor replied , Yes , yes , Maria Zoraida macange , which means not Zoraida . 
Away with those who assert that letters have the preeminence over arms I will tell them , whosoever they may be , that they know not what they say . 
This peace is the true end of war and war is only another name for arms . 
And then it is plain that whatever costs most is valued and deserves to be valued most . 
My father went beyond liberality and bordered on prodigality , a disposition by no means advantageous to a married man who has children to succeed to his name and position . 
My father had three , all sons , and all of sufficient age to make choice of a profession . 
But I wish each of you on taking possession of the share that falls to him to follow one of the paths I shall indicate . 
Eight days hence I will give you your full shares in money , without defrauding you of a farthing , as you will see in the end . 
Now tell me if you are willing to follow out my idea and advice as I have laid it before you . 
My second brother having made the same proposal , decided upon going to the Indies , embarking the portion that fell to him in trade . 
The youngest , and in my opinion the wisest , said he would rather follow the church , or go to complete his studies at Salamanca . 
The following year , which was the year seventy two , I found myself at Navarino rowing in the leading galley with the three lanterns . 
On this expedition was taken the galley called the Prize , whose captain was a son of the famous corsair Barbarossa . 
, and the following year , seventy four , he attacked the Goletta and the fort which Don John had left half built near Tunis . 
A small fort or tower which was in the middle of the lagoon under the command of Don Juan Zanoguera , a Valencian gentleman and a famous soldier , capitulated upon terms . 
They also took the commandant of the fort , Gabrio Cerbellon by name , a Milanese gentleman , a great engineer and a very brave soldier . 
In these two fortresses perished many persons of note , among whom was Pagano Doria , knight of the Order of St . 
Thanks be to God for all the mercies he has shown him , said the captive for to my mind there is no happiness on earth to compare with recovering lost liberty . 
And what is more , said the gentleman , I know the sonnets my brother made . 
Then let your worship repeat them , said the captive , for you will recite them better than I can . 
With all my heart , said the gentleman that on the Goletta runs thus . 
CHAPTER XL IN WHICH THE STORY OF THE CAPTIVE IS CONTINUED . 
It was the ebbing life blood first that failed The weary arms the stout hearts never quailed . 
That is it exactly , according to my recollection , said the captive . 
And this same arid soil hath ever been A haunt of countless mournful memories , As well in our day as in days of yore . 
But never yet to Heaven it sent , I ween , From its hard bosom purer souls than these , Or braver bodies on its surface bore . 
He was a Calabrian by birth , and a worthy man morally , and he treated his slaves with great humanity . 
He came to be the most cruel renegade I ever saw his name was Hassan Aga , and he grew very rich and became king of Algiers . 
The Christian came back , and it was again lowered , making the same movements as before . 
Seeing this I did not like not to try my luck , and as soon as I came under the reed it was dropped and fell inside the bano at my feet . 
Shortly afterwards at the same window a small cross made of reeds was put out and immediately withdrawn . 
I untied the knot and I found forty Spanish gold crowns with a paper written in Arabic , and at the end of the writing there was a large cross drawn . 
Others , however , there are who procure these papers and make use of them honestly , and remain on Christian soil . 
He opened it and remained some time examining it and muttering to himself as he translated it . 
I know not how to go . 
I have seen many Christians , but except thyself none has seemed to me to be a gentleman . 
I am young and beautiful , and have plenty of money to take with me . 
I myself have written this have a care to whom thou givest it to read trust no Moor , for they are all perfidious . 
She and Allah and this cross , which I often kiss as the captive bade me , protect thee . 
Entreat her that she be pleased to show thee how thou canst execute the command she gives thee , for she will , such is her goodness . 
On my own part , and on that of all these Christians who are with me , I promise to do all that we can for thee , even to death . 
Allah and Marien his mother watch over thee , my Lady . 
, because we saw clearly that she and no one else could find a way out of all these difficulties . 
When we had decided upon this the renegade told us not to be uneasy , for he would lose his life or restore us to liberty . 
Reed and cloth came down to me , and I found another paper and a hundred crowns in gold , without any other coin . 
All that can be done is for me to give you plenty of money in gold from this window . 
You can carry me away from there by night without any danger , and bring me to the vessel . 
And remember thou art to be my husband , else I will pray to Marien to punish thee . 
Endeavour to make thyself acquainted with the garden and when I see thee walking yonder I shall know that the bano is empty and I will give thee abundance of money . 
Allah protect thee , senor . 
In fact my master was so difficult to deal with that I dared not on any account pay down the money at once . 
I answered in a few words that I would do so , and that she must remember to commend us to Lela Marien with all the prayers the captive had taught her . 
Two or three times he made this voyage in company with the Tagarin already mentioned . 
But for my part I should have been sorry if he had spoken to her , for perhaps it might have alarmed her to find her affairs talked of by renegades . 
I determined , therefore , to go to the garden and try if I could speak to her and the day before my departure I went there under the pretence of gathering herbs . 
In this sort of language , I say , he asked me what I wanted in his garden , and to whom I belonged . 
, and that I wanted some herbs to make a salad . 
He asked me then whether I were on ransom or not , and what my master demanded for me . 
I will content myself with saying that more pearls hung from her fair neck , her ears , and her hair than she had hairs on her head . 
As she approached her father told her in his own language that I was a captive belonging to his friend the Arnaut Mami , and that I had come for salad . 
She took up the conversation , and in that mixture of tongues I have spoken of she asked me if I was a gentleman , and why I was not ransomed . 
That may be , lady , said I but indeed I dealt truthfully with my master , as I do and mean to do with everybody in the world . 
And when dost thou go ? said Zoraida . 
To morrow , I think , said I , for there is a vessel here from France which sails to morrow , and I think I shall go in her . 
No doubt thou art married in thine own country , said Zoraida , and for that reason thou art anxious to go and see thy wife . 
I am not married , I replied , but I have given my promise to marry on my arrival there . 
And is the lady beautiful to whom thou hast given it ? said Zoraida . 
So beautiful , said I , that , to describe her worthily and tell thee the truth , she is very like thee . 
With this I at once took my leave of both and she , looking as though her heart were breaking , retired with her father . 
As soon , then , as I and my comrades made our appearance , all those that were in hiding seeing us came and joined us . 
It was now the time when the city gates are shut , and there was no one to be seen in all the space outside . 
I answered that we were , and begged her to come down . 
The renegade asked her in the Morisco language if her father was in the house . 
She replied that he was and that he was asleep . 
Then it will be necessary to waken him and take him with us , said the renegade , and everything of value in this fair mansion . 
As we pursued our course Zoraida kept her head between my hands so as not to see her father , and I felt that she was praying to Lela Marien to help us . 
We might have made about thirty miles when daybreak found us some three musket shots off the land , which seemed to us deserted , and without anyone to see us . 
Answer me this for it causes me greater anxiety and surprise than even this misfortune itself . 
The renegade interpreted to us what the Moor said to his daughter she , however , returned him no answer . 
Daughter , is this true , what he says ? cried the Moor . 
It is , replied Zoraida . 
And what good hast thou done thyself , daughter ? said he . 
We turned him upon his face and he voided a great quantity of water , and at the end of two hours came to himself . 
For us , however , it was not the resting place of the wicked woman but a haven of safety for our relief , so much had the sea now got up . 
We promised her to do this at the moment of departure , for as it was uninhabited we ran no risk in releasing them at that place . 
But once he raised his voice to such a pitch that we were able to hear what he said . 
We , however , finding ourselves sinking began to shout for help and call upon those in the ship to pick us up as we were beginning to fill . 
Our renegade took the trunk containing Zoraida's wealth and dropped it into the sea without anyone perceiving what he did . 
We got into the boat , returning them thanks for their kindness to us , and showing ourselves grateful rather than indignant . 
But of the conflicting counsels the one which was adopted was that we should approach gradually , and land where we could if the sea were calm enough to permit us . 
However , we determined to push on farther , as it could not but be that ere long we must see some one who could tell us where we were . 
It is true , replied the young man , and by and by we will tell you all . 
The whole town came out to meet us , for they had by this time heard of our arrival from one who had gone on in advance . 
We went straight to the church to return thanks to God for the mercies we had received , and when Zoraida entered it she said there were faces there like Lela Marien's . 
For all this the captive returned thanks very courteously , although he would not accept any of their generous offers . 
Still , for all that , said one of those who had entered on horseback , room must be found for his lordship the Judge here . 
The servant replied that he was called the Licentiate Juan Perez de Viedma , and that he had heard it said he came from a village in the mountains of Leon . 
Still , said the captain , I would not make myself known abruptly , but in some indirect way . 
I have told you already , said the curate , that I will manage it in a way to satisfy us all . 
By this time supper was ready , and they all took their seats at the table , except the captive , and the ladies , who supped by themselves in their own room . 
And how was the captain called , senor ? asked the Judge . 
I lost mine at the Goletta , and after a variety of adventures we found ourselves comrades at Constantinople . 
Thence he went to Algiers , where he met with one of the most extraordinary adventures that ever befell anyone in the world . 
I followed that of letters , in which God and my own exertions have raised me to the position in which you see me . 
All this will make me continue my journey , not with the satisfaction in which I began it , but in the deepest melancholy and sadness . 
He whom you see here is the Captain Viedma , and this is the fair Moor who has been so good to him . 
The Frenchmen I told you of have reduced them to the state of poverty you see that you may show the generosity of your kind heart . 
The words the brothers exchanged , the emotion they showed can scarcely be imagined , I fancy , much less put down in writing . 
And there was Don Quixote observing all these strange proceedings attentively without uttering a word , and attributing the whole to chimeras of knight errantry . 
Don Quixote offered to mount guard over the castle lest they should be attacked by some giant or other malevolent scoundrel , covetous of the great treasure of beauty the castle contained . 
Those who understood him returned him thanks for this service , and they gave the Judge an account of his extraordinary humour , with which he was not a little amused . 
No one could imagine who it was that sang so sweetly , and the voice was unaccompanied by any instrument . 
One solitary distant star Is all I have to guide me , A brighter orb than those of old That Palinurus lighted . 
And vaguely drifting am I borne , I know not where it leads me I fix my gaze on it alone , Of all beside it heedless . 
But over cautious prudery , And coyness cold and cruel , When most I need it , these , like clouds , Its longed for light refuse me . 
Bright star , goal of my yearning eyes As thou above me beamest , When thou shalt hide thee from my sight I'll know that death is near me . 
What art thou talking about , child ? said Dorothea . 
Love resolute Knows not the word impossibility And though my suit Beset by endless obstacles I see , Yet no despair Shall hold me bound to earth while heaven is there . 
Meanwhile the time for my father's departure arrived , which he became aware of , but not from me , for I had never been able to tell him of it . 
I have never spoken a word to him in my life and for all that I love him so that I could not live without him . 
Dorothea could not help laughing to hear how like a child Dona Clara spoke . 
With this they fell asleep , and deep silence reigned all through the inn . 
in thy jealousy and love . 
Don Quixote had got so far in his pathetic speech when the landlady's daughter began to signal to him , saying , Senor , come over here , please . 
My mistress wants nothing of that sort , sir knight , said Maritornes at this . 
What then , discreet dame , is it that your mistress wants ? replied Don Quixote . 
Nevertheless he pulled his arm to see if he could release himself , but it had been made so fast that all his efforts were in vain . 
Withdraw to a distance , and wait till it is broad daylight , and then we shall see whether it will be proper or not to open to you . 
Do you think , gentlemen , that I look like an innkeeper ? said Don Quixote . 
I don't know what you look like , replied the other but I know that you are talking nonsense when you call this inn a castle . 
You know but little of the world , returned Don Quixote , since you are ignorant of what commonly occurs in knight errantry . 
But how did my father know that I had gone this road and in this dress ? said Don Luis . 
That shall be as I please , or as heaven orders , returned Don Luis . 
What can you please or heaven order , said the other , except to agree to go back ? Anything else is impossible . 
Cardenio then bade Dorothea return to her room , as he would endeavour to make the whole matter right , and they did as he desired . 
He replied that he could not do so on any account until he had concluded some business in which his life , honour , and heart were at stake . 
The servants pressed him , saying that most certainly they would not return without him , and that they would take him away whether he liked it or not . 
You shall not do that , replied Don Luis , unless you take me dead though however you take me , it will be without life . 
Our object , said one of the four , is to save the life of his father , who is in danger of losing it through this gentleman's disappearance . 
Sinner that I am , exclaimed Maritornes , who stood by before you have got your permission my master will be in the other world . 
She knows nothing more of my passion than what she may have learned from having sometimes seen from a distance that my eyes were filled with tears . 
Here , in the name of the king and justice ! he cried , this thief and highwayman wants to kill me for trying to recover my property . 
You lie , said Sancho , I am no highwayman it was in fair war my master Don Quixote won these spoils . 
To confirm all which , run , Sancho my son , and fetch hither the helmet which this good fellow calls a basin . 
Do as I bid thee , said Don Quixote it cannot be that everything in this castle goes by enchantment . 
Certainly not , said Don Quixote , for half of it is wanting , that is to say the beaver . 
To me it looks like a pack saddle , said Don Quixote but I have already said that with that question I do not concern myself . 
So that now , for me to come forward to give an opinion in such a puzzling matter , would be to risk a rash decision . 
It might easily be a she ass's , observed the curate . 
It is all the same , said the servant that is not the point but whether it is or is not a pack saddle , as your worships say . 
The pike was shivered in pieces against the ground , and the rest of the officers , seeing their comrade assaulted , raised a shout , calling for help for the Holy Brotherhood . 
The landlord , who had perforce to support his brother officers , ran at once to aid them . 
For all that , said the curate , you must not take him away this time , nor will he , it is my opinion , let himself be taken away . 
What mischief can there be in any village , or in all the cities of the world , you booby , that can hurt my reputation ? said Don Quixote . 
So it is , I believe , said Sancho , except the affair of the blanket , which came to pass in reality by ordinary means . 
Catholic ! said Don Quixote . 
Sancho was here speaking of Don Fernando , who , like a gentleman of his rank , was very likely perfumed as Sancho said . 
In the meantime the curate had made an arrangement with the officers that they should bear them company as far as his village , he paying them so much a day . 
The curate promised to comply with his request carefully , and they embraced once more , and renewed their promises . 
He is in his full senses , he eats and he drinks , and he has his calls like other men and as he had yesterday , before they caged him . 
After all , where envy reigns virtue cannot live , and where there is niggardliness there can be no liberality . 
It was an evil hour when you let yourself be got with child by his promises , and that island you long so much for found its way into your head . 
I am not with child by anyone , returned Sancho , nor am I a man to let myself be got with child , if it was by the King himself . 
Though I am poor I am an old Christian , and I owe nothing to nobody , and if I long for an island , other people long for worse . 
Mind how you talk , master barber for shaving is not everything , and there is some difference between Peter and Peter . 
And though it may be the chief object of such books to amuse , I do not know how they can succeed , when they are so full of such monstrous nonsense . 
In that case , said the canon , take all the beasts there , and bring the sumpter mule back . 
Ask what thou wilt , Sancho my son , returned Don Quixote , for I will satisfy thee and answer all thou requirest . 
But touching thy desire to ask me something , say on , and I will answer thee , though thou shouldst ask questions from this till to morrow morning . 
Is it possible , said Sancho , that your worship does not understand 'going anywhere' ? Why , the schoolboys know that from the time they were babes . 
I will answer for his not running away , said Sancho . 
And I also , said the canon , especially if he gives me his word as a knight not to leave us without our consent . 
Just so , said the canon . 
, when they vanquished the sons of the Count of San Polo . 
John , or of Alcantara , they used to say then a Knight of the Twelve Peers , because twelve equals were chosen for that military order . 
All that may be , replied the canon but , by the orders I have received , I do not remember seeing it . 
CHAPTER L OF THE SHREWD CONTROVERSY WHICH DON QUIXOTE AND THE CANON HELD , TOGETHER WITH OTHER INCIDENTS A good joke , that ! returned Don Quixote . 
Here he sees a brook whose limpid waters , like liquid crystal , ripple over fine sands and white pebbles that look like sifted gold and purest pearls . 
That is not bad philosophy thou art talking , Sancho , said the canon but for all that there is a good deal to be said on this matter of counties . 
I am a clown , but not so much of one but that I know how to behave to men and to beasts . 
That I can well believe , said the curate , for I know already by experience that the woods breed men of learning , and shepherds' harbour philosophers . 
as well as my own . 
So begin , friend , for we are all prepared to listen . 
It is what we shall all do , said the canon and then begged the goatherd to begin the promised tale . 
As a child she was beautiful , she continued to grow in beauty , and at the age of sixteen she was most lovely . 
I do not know which Leandra chose I only know her father put us both off with the tender age of his daughter and vague words that neither bound him nor dismissed us . 
To day he would appear in one gay dress , to morrow in another but all flimsy and gaudy , of little substance and less worth . 
Do not look upon all this that I am telling you about the clothes as uncalled for or spun out , for they have a great deal to do with the story . 
On the other hand he showed marks of wounds , which , though they could not be made out , he said were gunshot wounds received in divers encounters and actions . 
, and disappeared from the village with the soldier , who came more triumphantly out of this enterprise than out of any of the large number he laid claim to . 
Our melancholy grew greater , our patience grew less we cursed the soldier's finery and railed at the carelessness of Leandra's father . 
You are a great scoundrel , said Don Quixote , and it is you who are empty and a fool . 
Sancho alone was frantic , for he could not free himself from the grasp of one of the canon's servants , who kept him from going to his master's assistance . 
set off to encounter the penitents , though the curate , the canon , and the barber ran to prevent him . 
Take care what you are doing , senor , for this time it may be safely said you don't know what you are about . 
that poor Don Quixote came to the ground in a sad plight . 
Thou art right , Sancho , returned Don Quixote It will be wise to let the malign influence of the stars which now prevails pass off . 
Sancho replied that he was , better than his master was . 
Heaven grant it , husband , said she , for indeed we have need of it . 
Don't be in such a hurry to know all this , Teresa , said Sancho it is enough that I am telling you the truth , so shut your mouth . 
To be sure most of those one finds do not end as pleasantly as one could wish , for out of a hundred , ninety nine will turn out cross and contrary . 
I know it by experience , for out of some I came blanketed , and out of others belaboured . 
While this conversation passed between Sancho Panza and his wife , Don Quixote's housekeeper and niece took him in and undressed him and laid him in his old bed . 
He eyed them askance , and could not make out where he was . 
For her , Toboso's queen , from side to side He traversed the grim sierra , the champaign Of Aranjuez , and Montiel's famous plain On Rocinante oft a weary ride . 
Malignant planets , cruel destiny , Pursued them both , the fair Manchegan dame , And the unconquered star of chivalry . 
Nor youth nor beauty saved her from the claim Of death he paid love's bitter penalty , And left the marble to preserve his name . 
Nor ends his glory here , for his good steed Doth Brillador and Bayard far exceed As mettled steeds compared with Rocinante , The reputation they have won is scanty . 
, By Rocinante's side this gentle squire Was wont his wandering master to attend . 
Delusive hopes that lure the common herd With promises of ease , the heart's desire , In shadows , dreams , and smoke ye always end . 
By the side of the knight is laid Stolid man Sancho too , Than whom a squire more true Was not in the esquire trade . 
TIQUITOC , ACADEMICIAN OF ARGAMASILLA , ON THE TOMB OF DULCINEA DEL TOBOSO EPITAPH Here Dulcinea lies . 
Plump was she and robust Now she is ashes and dust The end of all flesh that dies . 
A lady of high degree , With the port of a lofty dame , And the great Don Quixote's flame , And the pride of her village was she . 
These were all the verses that could be deciphered the rest , the writing being worm eaten , were handed over to one of the Academicians to make out their meaning conjecturally . 
We have been informed that at the cost of many sleepless nights and much toil he has succeeded , and that he means to publish them in hopes of Don Quixote's third sally . 
Forse altro cantera con miglior plectro . 
Now I say that with his spurs , he is on his way . 
He also added that I should go and be the rector of this college . 
I asked the bearer if His Majesty had afforded a sum in aid of my travel expenses . 
He answered , No , not even in thought . 
From Madrid , this last day of October of the year one thousand six hundred and fifteen . 
There was a madman in Seville who took to one of the drollest absurdities and vagaries that ever madman in the world gave way to . 
It so happened , however , that one of the dogs he discharged his load upon was a cap maker's dog , of which his master was very fond . 
I was forgetting to tell thee that thou mayest expect the Persiles , which I am now finishing , and also the Second Part of Galatea . 
They were very cordially received by him they asked him after his health , and he talked to them about himself very naturally and in very well chosen language . 
Mine , master shaver , said Don Quixote , will not be impertinent , but , on the contrary , pertinent . 
You take a long time to tell it , Senor Don Quixote , said the curate . 
I am not versed in stories , said Don Quixote but I know the oath is a good one , because I know the barber to be an honest fellow . 
And who will be security for you , senor curate ? said Don Quixote . 
My profession , replied the curate , which is to keep secrets . 
Give me your attention and follow me . 
Yielding to this conviction , the worthy chaplain begged the governor to have the clothes in which the licentiate had entered the house given to him . 
The governor , seeing that it was the order of the Archbishop , obeyed , and they dressed the licentiate in his own clothes , which were new and decent . 
The chaplain said he would go with him to see what madmen there were in the house so they went upstairs , and with them some of those who were present . 
I am now cured and in my senses , for with God's power nothing is impossible . 
Have strong hope and trust in him , for as he has restored me to my original condition , so likewise he will restore you if you trust in him . 
Take courage ! take courage ! for despondency in misfortune breaks down health and brings on death . 
'Mind what you are saying , licentiate don't let the devil deceive you , replied the madman . 
'Keep quiet , stay where you are , and you will save yourself the trouble of coming back . 
'I know I am cured , returned the licentiate , 'and that I shall not have to go stations again . 
Thou free , thou cured , thou in thy senses ! and I mad , I disordered , I bound ! I will as soon think of sending rain as of hanging myself . 
So they stripped the licentiate , and he was left where he was and that's the end of the story . 
My only endeavour is to convince the world of the mistake it makes in not reviving in itself the happy time when the order of knight errantry was in the field . 
All these knights , and many more that I could name , senor curate , were knights errant , the light and glory of chivalry . 
I say this that Master Basin may know that I understand him . 
As to whether I ought to be vexed or not , returned Don Quixote , I myself am the best judge . 
The senor curate has leave for more than that , returned Don Quixote , so he may declare his doubt , for it is not pleasant to have a doubt on one's conscience . 
How big , in your worship's opinion , may the giant Morgante have been , Senor Don Quixote ? asked the barber . 
He enticed me away from home by a trick , promising me an island , which I am still waiting for . 
That is true , said the barber , and I should like very much to know what the pair are talking about at this moment . 
I promise you , said the curate , the niece or the housekeeper will tell us by and by , for they are not the ones to forget to listen . 
That was only reasonable , replied Sancho , for , by what your worship says , misfortunes belong more properly to knights errant than to their squires . 
Thou art mistaken , Sancho , said Don Quixote , according to the maxim quando caput dolet , c . 
I don't understand any language but my own , said Sancho . 
Profit by this advice , Sancho , and report to me clearly and faithfully the truth of what thou knowest touching what I have demanded of thee . 
I will not be vexed at all , returned Don Quixote thou mayest speak freely , Sancho , and without any beating about the bush . 
Well then , said he , first of all , I have to tell you that the common people consider your worship a mighty great madman , and me no less a fool . 
The caballeros say they do not want to have hidalgos setting up in opposition to them , particularly squire hidalgos who polish their own shoes and darn their black stockings with green silk . 
As to your worship's valour , courtesy , accomplishments , and task , there is a variety of opinions . 
Recollect , Sancho , said Don Quixote , that wherever virtue exists in an eminent degree it is persecuted . 
Few or none of the famous men that have lived escaped being calumniated by malice . 
Julius Caesar , the boldest , wisest , and bravest of captains , was charged with being ambitious , and not particularly cleanly in his dress , or pure in his morals . 
Of Alexander , whose deeds won him the name of Great , they say that he was somewhat of a drunkard . 
Of Hercules , him of the many labours , it is said that he was lewd and luxurious . 
Of Don Galaor , the brother of Amadis of Gaul , it was whispered that he was over quarrelsome , and of his brother that he was lachrymose . 
So that , O Sancho , amongst all these calumnies against good men , mine may be let pass , since they are no more than thou hast said . 
That's just where it is , body of my father ! Is there more , then ? asked Don Quixote . 
I promise thee , Sancho , said Don Quixote , the author of our history will be some sage enchanter for to such nothing that they choose to write about is hidden . 
says the author of the history is called Cide Hamete Berengena . 
That is a Moorish name , said Don Quixote . 
May be so , replied Sancho for I have heard say that the Moors are mostly great lovers of berengenas . 
Thou must have mistaken the surname of this 'Cide' which means in Arabic 'Lord' Sancho , observed Don Quixote . 
Very likely , replied Sancho , but if your worship wishes me to fetch the bachelor I will go for him in a twinkling . 
Absorbed and wrapped up in these and divers other cogitations , he was found by Sancho and Carrasco , whom Don Quixote received with great courtesy . 
That is not an objection of any importance , replied Carrasco . 
I cut no capers in the blanket , returned Sancho in the air I did , and more of them than I liked . 
That's where the truth of the history comes in , said Sancho . 
AEneas was not in truth and earnest so pious as Virgil represents him , nor Ulysses so wise as Homer describes him . 
You are a sly dog , Sancho , said Don Quixote i' faith , you have no want of memory when you choose to remember . 
If I were to try to forget the thwacks they gave me , said Sancho , my weals would not let me , for they are still fresh on my ribs . 
Hush , Sancho , said Don Quixote , and don't interrupt the bachelor , whom I entreat to go on and tell all that is said about me in this history . 
And about me , said Sancho , for they say , too , that I am one of the principal presonages in it . 
Personages , not presonages , friend Sancho , said Samson . 
What ! Another word catcher ! said Sancho if that's to be the way we shall not make an end in a lifetime . 
Leave it to God , Sancho , said Don Quixote , for all will be and perhaps better than you think no leaf on the tree stirs but by God's will . 
That is true , said Samson and if it be God's will , there will not be any want of a thousand islands , much less one , for Sancho to govern . 
Those are not governors of islands , observed Samson , but of other governments of an easier kind those that govern islands must at least know grammar . 
That would be working miracles , said Samson . 
Miracles or no miracles , said Sancho , let everyone mind how he speaks or writes about people , and not set down at random the first thing that comes into his head . 
I will bet the son of a dog has mixed the cabbages and the baskets , said Sancho . 
To give expression to humour , and write in a strain of graceful pleasantry , is the gift of great geniuses . 
The cleverest character in comedy is the clown , for he who would make people take him for a fool , must not be one . 
There is no book so bad but it has something good in it , said the bachelor . 
That is no wonder , said Don Quixote for there are many divines who are no good for the pulpit , but excellent in detecting the defects or excesses of those who preach . 
That which treats of me must have pleased few , said Don Quixote . 
Don Quixote begged and entreated the bachelor to stay and do penance with him . 
That is not where the mistake is , replied Samson it is , that before the ass has turned up , the author speaks of Sancho as being mounted on it . 
I don't know what to say to that , said Sancho , unless that the historian made a mistake , or perhaps it might be a blunder of the printer's . 
Let each look to himself and not try to make out white black , and black white for each of us is as God made him , aye , and often worse . 
Is there anything else to correct in the history , senor bachelor ? asked Don Quixote . 
No doubt there is , replied he but not anything that will be of the same importance as those I have mentioned . 
Does the author promise a second part at all ? said Don Quixote . 
And what does the author mean to do ? said Don Quixote . 
George , at which he might win renown above all the knights of Aragon , which would be winning it above all the knights of the world . 
There's where it is , what I abominate , Senor Samson , said Sancho here my master will attack a hundred armed men as a greedy boy would half a dozen melons . 
Take care , Sancho , said Samson honours change manners , and perhaps when you find yourself a governor you won't know the mother that bore you . 
They agreed upon this , and that the departure should take place in three days from that time . 
Look here , Sancho , said Teresa ever since you joined on to a knight errant you talk in such a roundabout way that there is no understanding you . 
I can tell you , wife , said Sancho , if I did not expect to see myself governor of an island before long , I would drop down dead on the spot . 
How many there are in the world who live without a government , and continue to live all the same , and are reckoned in the number of the people . 
The best sauce in the world is hunger , and as the poor are never without that , they always eat with a relish . 
But mind , Sancho , if by good luck you should find yourself with some government , don't forget me and your children . 
Remember that Sanchico is now full fifteen , and it is right he should go to school , if his uncle the abbot has a mind to have him trained for the Church . 
I have not been bringing up my daughter for that all this time , I can tell you , husband . 
It is this sort of talk , and what Sancho says lower down , that made the translator of the history say he considered this chapter apocryphal . 
Are you sure of all you say , husband ? replied Teresa . 
Well , for all that , I am afraid this rank of countess for my daughter will be her ruin . 
You do as you like , make a duchess or a princess of her , but I can tell you it will not be with my will and consent . 
I was always a lover of equality , brother , and I can't bear to see people give themselves airs without any right . 
I don't know , I'm sure , who fixed the 'Don' to him , what neither his father nor grandfather ever had . 
I declare thou hast a devil of some sort in thy body ! said Sancho . 
These observations which Sancho makes here are the other ones on account of which the translator says he regards this chapter as apocryphal , inasmuch as they are beyond Sancho's capacity . 
You send the money , said Teresa , and I'll dress him up for you as fine as you please . 
Then we are agreed that our daughter is to be a countess , said Sancho . 
Sancho consoled her by saying that though he must make her a countess , he would put it off as long as possible . 
Here their conversation came to an end , and Sancho went back to see Don Quixote , and make arrangements for their departure . 
They strove by all the means in their power to divert him from such an unlucky scheme but it was all preaching in the desert and hammering cold iron . 
There are two roads , my daughters , by which men may reach wealth and honours one is that of letters , the other that of arms . 
I have more of arms than of letters in my composition , and , judging by my inclination to arms , was born under the influence of the planet Mars . 
At this moment there came a knocking at the door , and when they asked who was there , Sancho Panza made answer that it was he . 
The instant the housekeeper knew who it was , she ran to hide herself so as not to see him in such abhorrence did she hold him . 
She found him pacing the patio of his house , and , perspiring and flurried , she fell at his feet the moment she saw him . 
Carrasco , seeing how distressed and overcome she was , said to her , What is this , mistress housekeeper ? What has happened to you ? One would think you heart broken . 
Nothing , Senor Samson , said she , only that my master is breaking out , plainly breaking out . 
to hunt all over the world for what he calls ventures , though I can't make out why he gives them that name . 
While Don Quixote and Sancho were shut up together , they had a discussion which the history records with great precision and scrupulous exactness . 
Sancho said to his master , Senor , I have educed my wife to let me go with your worship wherever you choose to take me . 
Induced , you should say , Sancho , said Don Quixote not educed . 
'So focile' means I am so much that way , replied Sancho . 
I understand thee still less now , said Don Quixote . 
Well , if you can't understand me , said Sancho , I don't know how to put it I know no more , God help me . 
And so say I , said Don Quixote continue , Sancho my friend go on you talk pearls to day . 
All that is very true , said Don Quixote but I cannot make out what thou art driving at . 
Sancho , my friend , replied Don Quixote , sometimes proportion may be as good as promotion . 
I see , said Sancho I'll bet I ought to have said proportion , and not promotion but it is no matter , as your worship has understood me . 
Don Quixote promised him he would do so , and Samson returned to the village , and the other two took the road for the great city of El Toboso . 
It might have been all that , returned Sancho , but to me it looked like a wall , unless I am short of memory . 
The poet did as she bade him , and left her without a shred of reputation , and she was satisfied by getting fame though it was infamy . 
And something of the same sort is what happened in the case of the great emperor Charles V and a gentleman in Rome . 
My meaning is , Sancho , that the desire of acquiring fame is a very powerful motive . 
So that , O Sancho , in what we do we must not overpass the bounds which the Christian religion we profess has assigned to us . 
Such , Sancho , are the means by which we reach those extremes of praise that fair fame carries with it . 
Solve , thou meanest , Sancho , said Don Quixote say on , in God's name , and I will answer as well as I can . 
The emperor Hadrian had for a tomb a castle as large as a good sized village , which they called the Moles Adriani , and is now the castle of St . 
Kings carry the bodies or relics of saints on their shoulders , and kiss bits of their bones , and enrich and adorn their oratories and favourite altars with them . 
What wouldst thou have me infer from all thou hast said , Sancho ? asked Don Quixote . 
Yes , said Sancho , but I have heard say that there are more friars in heaven than knights errant . 
That , said Don Quixote , is because those in religious orders are more numerous than knights . 
The errants are many , said Sancho . 
Many , replied Don Quixote , but few they who deserve the name of knights . 
CHAPTER IX WHEREIN IS RELATED WHAT WILL BE SEEN THERE 'Twas at the very midnight hour more or less when Don Quixote and Sancho quitted the wood and entered El Toboso . 
The town was in deep silence , for all the inhabitants were asleep , and stretched on the broad of their backs , as the saying is . 
The night was darkish , though Sancho would have been glad had it been quite dark , so as to find in the darkness an excuse for his blundering . 
All over the place nothing was to be heard except the barking of dogs , which deafened the ears of Don Quixote and troubled the heart of Sancho . 
Speak respectfully of what belongs to my lady , Sancho , said Don Quixote let us keep the feast in peace , and not throw the rope after the bucket . 
Well , then , she I am inquiring for will be one of these , my friend , said Don Quixote . 
May be so , replied the lad God be with you , for here comes the daylight and without waiting for any more of his questions , he whipped on his mules . 
Sancho undertook to execute the task according to the instructions , and to bring back an answer as good as the one he brought back before . 
Go , my son , said Don Quixote , and be not dazed when thou findest thyself exposed to the light of that sun of beauty thou art going to seek . 
Go , my friend , may better fortune than mine attend thee , and bring thee a happier issue than that which I await in dread in this dreary solitude . 
Verily , Sancho , said Don Quixote , thou dost always bring in thy proverbs happily , whatever we deal with may God give me better luck in what I am anxious about . 
Are you going to look for some ass that has been lost ? Not at all . 
And where do you expect to find all this , Sancho ? Where ? Why , in the great city of El Toboso . 
That's all very well , but do you know her house , Sancho ? My master says it will be some royal palace or grand castle . 
And have you ever seen her by any chance ? Neither I nor my master ever saw her . 
Don't you trust to that , Sancho , for the Manchegan folk are as hot tempered as they are honest , and won't put up with liberties from anybody . 
By the Lord , if they get scent of you , it will be worse for you , I promise you . 
Be off , you scoundrel ! Let the bolt fall . 
To be brief , the instant Sancho saw the peasant girls , he returned full speed to seek his master , and found him sighing and uttering a thousand passionate lamentations . 
Then thou bringest good news , said Don Quixote . 
Holy God ! what art thou saying , Sancho , my friend ? exclaimed Don Quixote . 
Take care thou art not deceiving me , or seeking by false joy to cheer my real sadness . 
Hackneys , you mean , Sancho , said Don Quixote . 
I'll take the foals , said Sancho for it is not quite certain that the spoils of the first adventure will be good ones . 
By this time they had cleared the wood , and saw the three village lasses close at hand . 
How outside the city ? returned Sancho . 
I am Sancho Panza , his squire , and he the vagabond knight Don Quixote of La Mancha , otherwise called 'The Knight of the Rueful Countenance . 
The country girls , at the same time , were astonished to see these two men , so different in appearance , on their knees , preventing their companion from going on . 
Go your own way , and let us go ours , and it will be better for you . 
Hey day ! My grandfather ! cried the girl , much I care for your love making ! Get out of the way and let us pass , and we'll thank you . 
Sancho stood aside and let her go , very well pleased to have got so well out of the hobble he was in . 
The fact is I was born to be an example of misfortune , and the target and mark at which the arrows of adversity are aimed and directed . 
, she gave me a whiff of raw garlic that made my head reel , and poisoned my very heart . 
Well , all I can say is there they were as plain as could be , replied Sancho . 
And that I could not see all this , Sancho ! said Don Quixote once more I say , and will say a thousand times , I am the most unfortunate of men . 
Sancho , the rogue , had enough to do to hide his laughter , at hearing the simplicity of the master he had so nicely befooled . 
Sancho recalled him from his reverie . 
So say I , returned Sancho his heart rend in twain , I trow , who saw her once , to see her now . 
If you want to know anything more about us , ask me and I will answer with the utmost exactitude , for as I am a devil I am up to everything . 
What devil ? asked Don Quixote . 
The one with the bladders , said Sancho . 
Then I will recover him , said Don Quixote , even if he be shut up with him in the deepest and darkest dungeons of hell . 
Follow me , Sancho , for the cart goes slowly , and with the mules of it I will make good the loss of Dapple . 
Still , for all that , said Don Quixote , the player devil must not go off boasting , even if the whole human race favours him . 
Now indeed thou hast hit the point , Sancho , said Don Quixote , which may and should turn me from the resolution I had already formed . 
After all , 'a sparrow in the hand is better than a vulture on the wing . 
The sceptres and crowns of those play actor emperors , said Sancho , were never yet pure gold , but only brass foil or tin . 
Yes , I have seen that , said Sancho . 
Thou art growing less doltish and more shrewd every day , Sancho , said Don Quixote . 
This was why it was said For friend no longer is there friend The reeds turn lances now . 
And some one else has sung Friend to friend the bug , c . 
But listen , for it seems he is tuning a lute or guitar , and from the way he is spitting and clearing his chest he must be getting ready to sing something . 
Faith , you are right , said Sancho , and no doubt he is some enamoured knight . 
But let us listen , perhaps he will tell us more about himself . 
That he will , returned Sancho , for he seems in a mood to bewail himself for a month at a stretch . 
Then come to me , said he of the Grove , and rest assured that it is to woe itself and affliction itself you come . 
Don Quixote , finding himself answered in such a soft and courteous manner , went over to him , and so did Sancho . 
From what you have just now sung I gather that yours spring from love , I mean from the love you bear that fair ingrate you named in your lament . 
Are you , sir knight , in love perchance ? asked he of the Grove of Don Quixote . 
By mischance I am , replied Don Quixote though the ills arising from well bestowed affections should be esteemed favours rather than misfortunes . 
That is true , returned he of the Grove , if scorn did not unsettle our reason and understanding , for if it be excessive it looks like revenge . 
I was never scorned by my lady , said Don Quixote . 
Certainly not , said Sancho , who stood close by , for my lady is as a lamb , and softer than a roll of butter . 
Is this your squire ? asked he of the Grove . 
He is , said Don Quixote . 
With this the two squires withdrew to one side , and between them there passed a conversation as droll as that which passed between their masters was serious . 
I , said he of the Grove , shall be satisfied with a canonry for my services , and my master has already assigned me one . 
You will laugh at the value I put on my Dapple for dapple is the colour of my beast . 
And how old is this lady that is being bred up for a countess ? asked he of the Grove . 
O how little you know about compliments , sir squire , returned he of the Grove . 
And is he in love perchance ? asked Sancho . 
Crazy but valiant , replied he of the Grove , and more roguish than crazy or valiant . 
For all that , brother and senor , said he of the Grove , if the blind lead the blind , both are in danger of falling into the pit . 
It is better for us to beat a quiet retreat and get back to our own quarters for those who seek adventures don't always find good ones . 
Well , said Sancho , I own it , and I grant it is no dishonour to call anyone whoreson when it is to be understood as praise . 
Leave me alone for that , said Sancho never fear but I'll hit upon the place it came from somehow . 
They gave the two of them some wine out of a cask , to try , asking their opinion as to the condition , quality , goodness or badness of the wine . 
One of them tried it with the tip of his tongue , the other did no more than bring it to his nose . 
The first said the wine had a flavour of iron , the second said it had a stronger flavour of cordovan . 
The owner said the cask was clean , and that nothing had been added to the wine from which it could have got a flavour of either iron or leather . 
Nevertheless , these two great wine tasters held to what they had said . 
Until my master reaches Saragossa , said Sancho , I'll remain in his service after that we'll see . 
I call her peerless because she has no peer , whether it be in bodily stature or in the supremacy of rank and beauty . 
I came , I saw , I conquered , and I made her stay quiet and behave herself , for nothing but north winds blew for more than a week . 
Another time I was ordered to lift those ancient stones , the mighty bulls of Guisando , an enterprise that might more fitly be entrusted to porters than to knights . 
Again , she bade me fling myself into the cavern of Cabra an unparalleled and awful peril and bring her a minute account of all that is concealed in those gloomy depths . 
Thus the innumerable achievements of the said Don Quixote are now set down to my account and have become mine . 
If all these tokens are not enough to vindicate the truth of what I say , here is my sword , that will compel incredulity itself to give credence to it . 
Calm yourself , sir knight , said Don Quixote , and give ear to what I am about to say to you . 
Still , returned he of the Grove , we must fight , if it be only for half an hour . 
Very good , said he of the Grove God will send the dawn and we shall be all right . 
Well then , said Don Quixote , while we are mounting you can at least tell me if I am that Don Quixote whom you said you vanquished . 
I am aware of it already , said Don Quixote provided what is commanded and imposed upon the vanquished be things that do not transgress the limits of chivalry . 
That is understood , replied he of the Mirrors . 
It seems to me rather , Sancho , said Don Quixote , that thou wouldst mount a scaffold in order to see the bulls without danger . 
To tell the truth , returned Sancho , the monstrous nose of that squire has filled me with fear and terror , and I dare not stay near him . 
Sancho came up , and when he saw the countenance of the bachelor Carrasco , he fell to crossing himself a thousand times , and blessing himself as many more . 
Carrasco undertook the task , and Tom Cecial , a gossip and neighbour of Sancho Panza's , a lively , feather headed fellow , offered himself as his squire . 
Thus discoursing , the pair proceeded until they reached a town where it was their good luck to find a bone setter , with whose help the unfortunate Samson was cured . 
Let us reason the matter , Sancho , said Don Quixote . 
For all that , however , I console myself , because , after all , in whatever shape he may have been , I have victorious over my enemy . 
The trappings of the mare were of the field and jineta fashion , and of mulberry colour and green . 
In truth , replied he on the mare , I would not pass you so hastily but for fear that horse might turn restive in the company of my mare . 
There is a good deal to be said on that point , said Don Quixote , as to whether the histories of the knights errant are fiction or not . 
Why , is there anyone who doubts that those histories are false ? said the man in green . 
Sometimes I dine with my neighbours and friends , and often invite them my entertainments are neat and well served without stint of anything . 
I have no taste for tattle , nor do I allow tattling in my presence I pry not into my neighbours' lives , nor have I lynx eyes for what others do . 
I am no saint , replied the gentleman , but a great sinner but you are , brother , for you must be a good fellow , as your simplicity shows . 
Sancho went back and regained his pack saddle , having extracted a laugh from his master's profound melancholy , and excited fresh amazement in Don Diego . 
that there is no getting him to take kindly to the law , which I wished him to study , or to theology , the queen of them all . 
But this maiden will not bear to be handled , nor dragged through the streets , nor exposed either at the corners of the market places , or in the closets of palaces . 
She is the product of an Alchemy of such virtue that he who is able to practise it , will turn her into pure gold of inestimable worth . 
He that possesses her must keep her within bounds , not permitting her to break out in ribald satires or soulless sonnets . 
She must on no account be offered for sale , unless , indeed , it be in heroic poems , moving tragedies , or sprightly and ingenious comedies . 
She must not be touched by the buffoons , nor by the ignorant vulgar , incapable of comprehending or appreciating her hidden treasures . 
He , then , who shall embrace and cultivate poetry under the conditions I have named , shall become famous , and his name honoured throughout all the civilised nations of the earth . 
He of the green gaban was filled with astonishment at Don Quixote's argument , so much so that he began to abandon the notion he had taken up about his being crazy . 
Sancho , hearing himself called , quitted the shepherds , and , prodding Dapple vigorously , came up to his master , to whom there fell a terrific and desperate adventure . 
I am convinced beyond a doubt that the adventure which is about to befall me is a terrible one . 
Give me something to wipe myself with , if thou hast it , for this profuse sweat is blinding me . 
Sancho held his tongue , and gave him a cloth , and gave thanks to God at the same time that his master had not found out what was the matter . 
May he so , said Don Quixote . 
And are the lions large ? asked Don Quixote . 
You , gentlemen , place yourselves in safety before I open , for I know they will do me no harm . 
Once more the gentleman strove to persuade Don Quixote not to do such a mad thing , as it was tempting God to engage in such a piece of folly . 
To this , Don Quixote replied that he knew what he was about . 
The gentleman in return entreated him to reflect , for he knew he was under a delusion . 
Fear at any rate , replied Don Quixote , will make him look bigger to thee than half the world . 
Retire , Sancho , and leave me and if I die here thou knowest our old compact thou wilt repair to Dulcinea I say no more . 
To these he added some further words that banished all hope of his giving up his insane project . 
It is to be observed , that on coming to this passage , the author of this veracious history breaks out into exclamations . 
Don Quixote merely observed him steadily , longing for him to leap from the cart and come to close quarters with him , when he hoped to hew him in pieces . 
Seeing this , Don Quixote ordered the keeper to take a stick to him and provoke him to make him come out . 
That I won't , said the keeper for if I anger him , the first he'll tear in pieces will be myself . 
What dost thou think of this , Sancho ? said Don Quixote . 
Are there any enchantments that can prevail against true valour ? The enchanters may be able to rob me of good fortune , but of fortitude and courage they cannot . 
The cart went its way , and Don Quixote , Sancho , and he of the green gaban went theirs . 
But for all that , I would have you take notice that I am neither so mad nor so foolish as I must have seemed to you . 
To greater advantage , I maintain , does the knight errant show bringing aid to some widow in some lonely waste , than the court knight dallying with some city damsel . 
Almost the same civilities were exchanged between him and the student , who listening to Don Quixote , took him to be a sensible , clear headed person . 
, he washed his head and face , and still the water remained whey coloured , thanks to Sancho's greediness and purchase of those unlucky curds that turned his master so white . 
I don't know what to say , my son , replied . 
A poet , it may be , replied Don Lorenzo , but a great one , by no means . 
It is true that I am somewhat given to poetry and to reading good poets , but not so much so as to justify the title of 'great' which my father gives me . 
I do not dislike that modesty , said Don Quixote for there is no poet who is not conceited and does not think he is the best poet in the world . 
There is no rule without an exception , said Don Lorenzo there may be some who are poets and yet do not think they are . 
So far , said Don Lorenzo to himself , I should not take you to be a madman but let us go on . 
I do not know what science that is , said Don Lorenzo , and until now I have never heard of it . 
He must be a theologian , so as to be able to give a clear and distinctive reason for the Christian faith he professes , wherever it may be asked of him . 
He must be an astronomer , so as to know by the stars how many hours of the night have passed , and what clime and quarter of the world he is in . 
If that be so , replied Don Lorenzo , this science , I protest , surpasses all . 
How , if that be so ? said Don Quixote . 
What I mean to say , said Don Lorenzo , is , that I doubt whether there are now , or ever were , any knights errant , and adorned with such virtues . 
, I will not now stop to disabuse you of the error you share with the multitude . 
Here , being summoned to dinner , they brought their colloquy to a close . 
Don Diego asked his son what he had been able to make out as to the wits of their guest . 
I don't understand what you say , or mean by slipping , said Don Quixote . 
O Fortune , long I've sued to thee The gifts thou gavest me restore , For , trust me , I would ask no more , Could 'was' become an 'is' for me . 
No other prize I seek to gain , No triumph , glory , or success , Only the long lost happiness , The memory whereof is pain . 
One taste , methinks , of bygone bliss The heart consuming fire might stay And , so it come without delay , Then would I ask no more than this . 
Perplexed , uncertain , to remain 'Twixt hope and fear , is death , not life 'Twere better , sure , to end the strife , And dying , seek release from pain . 
And yet , thought were the best for me . 
Anon the thought aside I fling , And to the present fondly cling , And dread the time that is to be . 
Heaven grant that the judges who rob you of the first prize that Phoebus may pierce them with his arrows , and the Muses never cross the thresholds of their doors . 
Repeat me some of your long measure verses , senor , if you will be so good , for I want thoroughly to feel the pulse of your rare genius . 
Impatient of delay , with reckless pace The rash maid wins the fatal spot where she Sinks not in lover's arms but death's embrace . 
So runs the strange tale , how the lovers twain One sword , one sepulchre , one memory , Slays , and entombs , and brings to life again . 
He informed them that his own name was Don Quixote of La Mancha , and that he was called , by way of surname , the Knight of the Lions . 
Don Quixote asked him if it was some prince's , that he spoke of it in this way . 
should marry this lady Quiteria and a blessing and good luck I meant to say the opposite on people who would prevent those who love one another from marrying . 
He who has to make a long journey , will , if he is wise , look out for some trusty and pleasant companion to accompany him before he sets out . 
I , sirs , for my sins have studied canon law at Salamanca , and I rather pique myself on expressing my meaning in clear , plain , and intelligible language . 
Look here , bachelor Corchuelo , returned the licentiate , you have the most mistaken idea in the world about skill with the sword , if you think it useless . 
We shall soon see , replied Corchuelo , and getting off his ass briskly , he drew out furiously one of the swords the licentiate carried on his beast . 
The other two of the company , the peasants , without dismounting from their asses , served as spectators of the mortal tragedy . 
The cuts , thrusts , down strokes , back strokes and doubles , that Corchuelo delivered were past counting , and came thicker than hops or hail . 
It grew dark but before they reached the town it seemed to them all as if there was a heaven full of countless glittering stars in front of it . 
The musicians were the life of the wedding , wandering through the pleasant grounds in separate bands , some dancing , others singing , others playing the various instruments already mentioned . 
In short , it seemed as though mirth and gaiety were frisking and gambolling all over the meadow . 
The servant sleeps and the master lies awake thinking how he is to feed him , advance him , and reward him . 
Have done , thou glutton , said Don Quixote come , let us go and witness this bridal , and see what the rejected Basilio does . 
Let him do what he likes , returned Sancho be he not poor , he would marry Quiteria . 
They won't give a pint of wine at the tavern for a good cast of the bar or a neat thrust of the sword . 
On a good foundation you can raise a good building , and the best foundation in the world is money . 
Sancho did as his master bade him , and putting the saddle on Rocinante and the pack saddle on Dapple , they both mounted and at a leisurely pace entered the arcade . 
Sancho counted more than sixty wine skins of over six gallons each , and all filled , as it proved afterwards , with generous wines . 
There were , besides , piles of the whitest bread , like the heaps of corn one sees on the threshing floors . 
Of cooks and cook maids there were over fifty , all clean , brisk , and blithe . 
In the capacious belly of the ox were a dozen soft little sucking pigs , which , sewn up there , served to give it tenderness and flavour . 
The spices of different kinds did not seem to have been bought by the pound but by the quarter , and all lay open to view in a great chest . 
In short , all the preparations made for the wedding were in rustic style , but abundant enough to feed an army . 
Sancho observed all , contemplated all , and everything won his heart . 
I don't see one , said Sancho . 
I have nothing to put them in , said Sancho . 
Well then , said the cook , take spoon and all for Camacho's wealth and happiness furnish everything . 
At their head were a venerable old man and an ancient dame , more brisk and active , however , than might have been expected from their years . 
Following these there came an artistic dance of the sort they call speaking dances . 
The nymphs that followed Love bore their names written on white parchment in large letters on their backs . 
Poetry was the name of the first , Wit of the second , Birth of the third , and Valour of the fourth . 
Those that followed Interest were distinguished in the same way the badge of the first announced Liberality , that of the second Largess , the third Treasure , and the fourth Peaceful Possession . 
In front of them all came a wooden castle drawn by four wild men , all clad in ivy and hemp stained green , and looking so natural that they nearly terrified Sancho . 
On the front of the castle and on each of the four sides of its frame it bore the inscription Castle of Caution . 
The heavens above us own me nay , The shades below acknowledge me . 
I know not fear , I have my will , Whate'er my whim or fancy be For me there's no impossible , I order , bind , forbid , set free . 
Having concluded the stanza he discharged an arrow at the top of the castle , and went back to his place . 
To use me rightly few know how , To act without me fewer still , For I am Interest , and I vow For evermore to do thy will . 
If thou my homage wilt not scorn , Thy fortune , watched by envious eyes , On wings of poesy upborne Shall be exalted to the skies . 
But thee , fair lady , to enrich , Myself a prodigal I'll prove , A vice not wholly shameful , which May find its fair excuse in love . 
only carried away those that have been just quoted . 
Don Quixote asked one of the nymphs who it was that had composed and arranged it . 
She replied that it was a beneficiary of the town who had a nice taste in devising things of the sort . 
Sancho Panza , who was listening to all this , exclaimed , The king is my cock I stick to Camacho . 
It is easy to see thou art a clown , Sancho , said Don Quixote , and one of that sort that cry 'Long life to the conqueror . 
Hast thou finished thy harangue , Sancho ? said Don Quixote . 
God grant I may see thee dumb before I die , Sancho , said Don Quixote . 
I tell thee , Sancho , if thou hadst discretion equal to thy mother wit , thou mightst take a pulpit in hand , and go about the world preaching fine sermons . 
He preaches well who lives well , said Sancho , and I know no more theology than that . 
I swear in my heart she is a brave lass , and fit 'to pass over the banks of Flanders . 
Don Quixote laughed at Sancho's boorish eulogies and thought that , saving his lady Dulcinea del Toboso , he had never seen a more beautiful woman . 
The fair Quiteria appeared somewhat pale , which was , no doubt , because of the bad night brides always pass dressing themselves out for their wedding on the morrow . 
with a crown of gloomy cypress , and in his hand he held a long staff . 
, I will , with my own hands , do away with the obstacle that may interfere with it , and remove myself from between you . 
Quiteria approached him , and kneeling , demanded his hand by signs without speaking . 
While uttering these words he showed such weakness that the bystanders expected each return of faintness would take his life with it . 
And I give myself to be thy wife , said Quiteria , whether thou livest many years , or they carry thee from my arms to the grave . 
In short , the priest and Camacho and most of those present saw they were tricked and made fools of . 
Quiteria belonged to Basilio and Basilio to Quiteria by the just and beneficent disposal of heaven . 
Camacho is rich , and can purchase his pleasure when , where , and as it pleases him . 
With them they carried Don Quixote , regarding him as a man of worth and a stout one . 
And so , vexed and dejected though not hungry , without dismounting from Dapple he followed in the footsteps of Rocinante . 
has a jewel when he has a fair wife , and if she is taken from him , his honour is taken from him and slain . 
The fair woman who is a woman of honour , and whose husband is poor , deserves to be crowned with the laurels and crowns of victory and triumph . 
I do not say it is impossible , but I look upon it as difficult . 
Thou dost wrong , Sancho , said Don Quixote , to speak ill of thy wife for after all she is the mother of thy children . 
In fine , they remained three days with the newly married couple , by whom they were entertained and treated like kings . 
who was the first man that scratched his head ? For to my thinking it must have been our father Adam . 
So it must , replied the cousin for there is no doubt but Adam had a head and hair and being the first man in the world he would have scratched himself sometimes . 
Look here , senor , said Sancho , don't give yourself any trouble about it , for I have just this minute hit upon what I asked you . 
The first tumbler in the world , you must know , was Lucifer , when they cast or pitched him out of heaven for he came tumbling into the bottomless pit . 
You are right , friend , said the cousin and said Don Quixote , Sancho , that question and answer are not thine own thou hast heard them from some one else . 
Hold your peace , senor , said Sancho faith , if I take to asking questions and answering , I'll go on from this till to morrow morning . 
Nay ! to ask foolish things and answer nonsense I needn't go looking for help from my neighbours . 
The drum is in hands that will know how to beat it well enough , said Sancho Panza . 
But Don Quixote answered not a word , and drawing him out entirely they perceived he had his eyes shut and every appearance of being fast asleep . 
Now indeed do I know that all the pleasures of this life pass away like a shadow and a dream , or fade like the flower of the field . 
They begged of him to explain himself , and tell them what he had seen in that hell down there . 
Hell do you call it ? said Don Quixote call it by no such name , for it does not deserve it , as ye shall soon see . 
He then begged them to give him something to eat , as he was very hungry . 
A little light reaches it through some chinks or crevices , communicating with it and open to the surface of the earth . 
I called out , telling you not to let out more rope until I bade you , but you cannot have heard me . 
I opened my eyes , I rubbed them , and found I was not asleep but thoroughly awake . 
On his shoulders and breast he had a green satin collegiate hood , and covering his head a black Milanese bonnet , and his snow white beard fell below his girdle . 
That poniard must have been made by Ramon de Hoces the Sevillian , said Sancho . 
That is true , said the cousin continue , Senor Don Quixote , for I am listening to you with the greatest pleasure in the world . 
How or why he enchanted us , no one knows , but time will tell , and I suspect that time is not far off . 
This was my last request . 
The seven daughters belong to the kings of Spain and the two nieces to the knights of a very holy order called the Order of St . 
I have now news to give you , which , if it serves not to alleviate your sufferings , will not in any wise increase them . 
And now there was heard a great outcry and lamentation , accompanied by deep sighs and bitter sobs . 
After this apology which the great Montesinos made me , my heart recovered itself from the shock I had received in hearing my lady compared with Belerma . 
How long is it since I went down ? asked Don Quixote . 
Little better than an hour , replied Sancho . 
That's it , said Don Quixote . 
And did your worship eat anything all that time , senor ? asked the cousin . 
I never touched a morsel , answered Don Quixote , nor did I feel hunger , or think of it . 
And do the enchanted eat ? said the cousin . 
They neither eat , said Don Quixote nor are they subject to the greater excrements , though it is thought that their nails , beards , and hair grow . 
And do the enchanted sleep , now , senor ? asked Sancho . 
Certainly not , replied Don Quixote at least , during those three days I was with them not one of them closed an eye , nor did I either . 
I don't believe my master lies , said Sancho . 
If not , what dost thou believe ? asked Don Quixote . 
As I know thee , Sancho , said Don Quixote , I heed not thy words . 
Nor I your worship's , said Sancho , whether you beat me or kill me for those I have spoken , and will speak if you don't correct and mend your own . 
And the fourth thing is , that I have ascertained the source of the river Guadiana , heretofore unknown to mankind . 
Close to the hermitage he has a small house which he built at his own cost , but though small it is large enough for the reception of guests . 
Has this hermit any hens , do you think ? asked Sancho . 
At this point they saw approaching the spot where they stood a man on foot , proceeding at a rapid pace , and beating a mule loaded with lances and halberds . 
When he came up to them , he saluted them and passed on without stopping . 
Don Quixote called to him , Stay , good fellow you seem to be making more haste than suits that mule . 
I cannot stop , senor , answered the man for the arms you see I carry here are to be used tomorrow , so I must not delay God be with you . 
Accordingly they mounted and all three took the direct road for the inn , which they reached a little before nightfall . 
On the road the cousin proposed they should go up to the hermitage to drink a sup . 
They called for some of the best . 
She replied that her master had none , but that if they liked cheap water she would give it with great pleasure . 
If I found any in water , said Sancho , there are wells along the road where I could have had enough of it . 
How poverty ? asked Don Quixote the heat one can understand . 
And did you get any bounty , now ? asked the cousin . 
They asked Julius Caesar , the valiant Roman emperor , what was the best death . 
, lost an ass and though he did all he possibly could to find it , it was all to no purpose . 
If you have a mind that we two should go back and look for him , let me put up this she ass at my house and I'll be back at once . 
'You will be doing me a great kindness , said the owner of the ass , 'and I'll try to pay it back in the same coin . 
It is with all these circumstances , and in the very same way I am telling it now , that those who know all about the matter tell the story . 
I can bray to perfection , and if you can ever so little , the thing's as good as done . 
'Ever so little did you say , gossip ? said the other 'by God , I'll not give in to anybody , not even to the asses themselves . 
'It's in a good hand , gossip , said the other 'if the abbot sings well , the acolyte is not much behind him . 
That I can well believe , said Sancho . 
Now I declare , said Don Quixote , he who reads much and travels much sees and knows a great deal . 
If I had money , said the page , I would ask senor ape what will happen me in the peregrination I am making . 
As soon as he heard this , the landlord , delighted beyond measure , pointed out a place where the show might be fixed , which was done at once . 
That may be , replied Don Quixote however , I will do what you suggest though I have my own scruples about it . 
At this point Master Pedro came up in quest of Don Quixote , to tell him the show was now ready and to come and see it , for it was worth seeing . 
But enough of that for the present let us go and see Master Pedro's show , for I am sure there must be something novel in it . 
Don Quixote and Sancho obeyed him and went to where the show was already put up and uncovered , set all around with lighted wax tapers which made it look splendid and bright . 
Observe , too , a new incident which now occurs , such as , perhaps , never was seen . 
You see , too , how the neighing of the horse shows his satisfaction with the gallant and beautiful burden he bears in his lord and lady . 
You see how they wheel round and quit the city , and in joy and gladness take the road to Paris . 
That is true , said Don Quixote but at present I am not aware that I have got anything of yours , Master Pedro . 
Proceed , said Don Quixote . 
It's not little , said Sancho . 
Nor is it much , said the landlord make it even , and say five reals . 
God help every one to his own , Master Pedro , and let us all proceed fairly and honestly and now go on . 
In short , the puppet show storm passed off , and all supped in peace and good fellowship at Don Quixote's expense , for he was the height of generosity . 
The landlord , who did not know Don Quixote , was as much astonished at his mad freaks as at his generosity . 
So much for Master Pedro and his ape and now to return to Don Quixote of La Mancha . 
At first he imagined some regiment of soldiers was passing that way , and to see them he spurred Rocinante and mounted the hill . 
From this device Don Quixote concluded that these people must be from the braying town , and he said so to Sancho , explaining to him what was written on the standard . 
They perceived , in short , clearly that the town which had been twitted had turned out to do battle with some other that had jeered it more than was fair or neighbourly . 
Don Quixote proceeded to join them , not a little to Sancho's uneasiness , for he never relished mixing himself up in expeditions of that sort . 
The members of the troop received him into the midst of them , taking him to he some one who was on their side . 
They all bade him say what he liked , for they would listen to him willingly . 
, in defence of one's country . 
Thus , sirs , you are bound to keep quiet by human and divine law . 
Besides which , you have been told that it is folly to take offence at merely hearing a bray . 
Don Quixote , seeing him so roughly handled , attacked the man who had struck him lance in hand , but so many thrust themselves between them that he could not avenge him . 
The members of the band , however , were satisfied with seeing him take to flight , and did not fire on him . 
Don Quixote having got some way off looked back , and seeing Sancho coming , waited for him , as he perceived that no one followed him . 
Well , how long is it , Sancho , since I promised it to you ? said Don Quixote . 
If I remember rightly , said Sancho , it must be over twenty years , three days more or less . 
I believe now thou wouldst have all the money thou hast of mine go in thy wages . 
Turn the rein , or the halter , of thy Dapple , and begone home for one single step further thou shalt not make in my company . 
I should have been surprised , Sancho , said Don Quixote , if thou hadst not introduced some bit of a proverb into thy speech . 
Sancho said he would do so , and keep up his heart as best he could . 
Sancho passed the night in pain , for with the evening dews the blow of the staff made itself felt all the more . 
Sancho asked him the reason of this sudden dismounting and tying . 
As Sancho said this , he tied the beasts , leaving them to the care and protection of the enchanters with sorrow enough in his heart . 
Don Quixote bade him not be uneasy about deserting the animals , for he who would carry themselves over such longinquous roads and regions would take care to feed them . 
I don't understand that logiquous , said Sancho , nor have I ever heard the word all the days of my life . 
O dear friends , peace be with you , and may this madness that is taking us away from you , turned into sober sense , bring us back to you . 
By God , said Sancho , your worship gives me a nice authority for what you say , putrid Dolly something transmogrified , or whatever it is . 
But again I tell thee , feel and hunt , for I am certain thou art cleaner than a sheet of smooth white paper . 
By this time , the boat , having reached the middle of the stream , began to move less slowly than hitherto . 
I can do no more . 
Don Quixote and Sancho returned to their beasts , and to their life of beasts , and so ended the adventure of the enchanted bark . 
Fortune , however , ordered matters after a fashion very much the opposite of what he contemplated . 
Coming closer , he distinguished among them a lady of graceful mien , on a pure white palfrey or hackney caparisoned with green trappings and a silver mounted side saddle . 
The lady was also in green , and so richly and splendidly dressed that splendour itself seemed personified in her . 
Except that thou didst carry to the lady Dulcinea , said Don Quixote , I know not that thou hast carried any other , at least in my service . 
That I believe , Sancho , said Don Quixote go and good luck to thee , and God speed thee . 
Gently , Senor Don Quixote of La Mancha , said the duke where my lady Dona Dulcinea del Toboso is , it is not right that other beauties should he praised . 
And talkative , added Don Quixote . 
The duchess desired Sancho to come to her side , for she found infinite enjoyment in listening to his shrewd remarks . 
If the master is as wise as the man , said the duenna , we have got a fine bargain . 
At any rate , it will be a very ripe one , said Sancho , for you won't lose the trick in years by a point too little . 
, they would have burst with laughter . 
Then came twelve pages , together with the seneschal , to lead him to dinner , as his hosts were already waiting for him . 
They placed him in the midst of them , and with much pomp and stateliness they conducted him into another room , where there was a sumptuous table laid with but four covers . 
One of this sort , I say , must have been the grave churchman who came out with the duke and duchess to receive Don Quixote . 
A vast number of polite speeches were exchanged , and at length , taking Don Quixote between them , they proceeded to sit down to table . 
The duke pressed Don Quixote to take the head of the table , and , though he refused , the entreaties of the duke were so urgent that he had to accept it . 
The ecclesiastic took his seat opposite to him , and the duke and duchess those at the sides . 
The moment Sancho said this Don Quixote trembled , making sure that he was about to say something foolish . 
I have no recollection of anything , Sancho , said Don Quixote say what thou wilt , only say it quickly . 
Well then , said Sancho , what I am going to say is so true that my master Don Quixote , who is here present , will keep me from lying . 
I have so considered and reconsidered , said Sancho , that the bell ringer's in a safe berth as will be seen by what follows . 
It would be well , said Don Quixote , if your highnesses would order them to turn out this idiot , for he will talk a heap of nonsense . 
Isn't all this true , master mine ? As you live , say so , that these gentlefolk may not take me for some lying chatterer . 
So far , said the ecclesiastic , I take you to be more a chatterer than a liar but I don't know what I shall take you for by and by . 
Don Quixote turned all colours , which , on his sunburnt face , mottled it till it looked like jasper . 
To which Don Quixote replied , Senora , my misfortunes , though they had a beginning , will never have an end . 
Have you seen her enchanted , Sancho ? asked the duke . 
What , seen her ! said Sancho why , who the devil was it but myself that first thought of the enchantment business ? She is as much enchanted as my father . 
Knight I am , and knight I will die , if such be the pleasure of the Most High . 
Go down on thy knees , Sancho , said Don Quixote , and kiss the feet of his excellence for the favour he has bestowed upon thee . 
That is true , said Don Quixote , and the reason is , that he who is not liable to offence cannot give offence to anyone . 
a round ball of Naples soap . 
The duke and duchess , who had not known anything about this , waited to see what came of this strange washing . 
She did so , and Don Quixote was left the strangest and most ludicrous figure that could be imagined . 
For by God and upon my soul I want it badly and if they gave me a scrape of the razor besides I'd take it as a still greater kindness . 
What are you saying to yourself , Sancho ? asked the duchess . 
Don't be uneasy , friend Sancho , said the duchess I will take care that my damsels wash you , and even put you in the tub if necessary . 
I'll be content with the beard , said Sancho , at any rate for the present and as for the future , God has decreed what is to be . 
Attend to worthy Sancho's request , seneschal , said the duchess , and do exactly what he wishes . 
Demosthenian eloquence , said Don Quixote , means the eloquence of Demosthenes , as Ciceronian means that of Cicero , who were the two most eloquent orators in the world . 
True , said the duke you must have lost your wits to ask such a question . 
Dulcinea is illustrious and well born , and of one of the gentle families of El Toboso , which are many , ancient , and good . 
What is all this , brothers ? asked the duchess . 
The customs of countries and princes' palaces are only good so long as they give no annoyance but the way of washing they have here is worse than doing penance . 
Sancho shrugged his shoulders , obeyed , and sat down , and all the duchess's damsels and duennas gathered round him , waiting in profound silence to hear what he would say . 
To be sure they don't lie ! exclaimed Dona Rodriguez , the duenna , who was one of the listeners . 
And according to that the gentleman has good reason to say he would rather be a labouring man than a king , if vermin are to eat him . 
The charge I give him is to be careful how he governs his vassals , bearing in mind that they are all loyal and well born . 
You are right , Sancho , said the duchess , for no one is born ready taught , and the bishops are made out of men and not out of stones . 
But , senora , your excellence must not therefore think me ill disposed , for a dolt like me is not bound to see into the thoughts and plots of those vile enchanters . 
That is true , said the duchess but tell me , Sancho , what is this you say about the cave of Montesinos , for I should like to know . 
All worthy Sancho's observations , said the duchess , are Catonian sentences , or at any rate out of the very heart of Michael Verino himself , who florentibus occidit annis . 
In fact , to speak in his own style , 'under a bad cloak there's often a good drinker . 
Sancho once more kissed the duchess's hand , and entreated her to let good care be taken of his Dapple , for he was the light of his eyes . 
What is Dapple ? said the duchess . 
Sancho , however , took what they gave him , meaning to sell it the first opportunity . 
, he placed himself in the midst of the troop of huntsmen . 
The duchess dismounted , and with a sharp boar spear in her hand posted herself where she knew the wild boars were in the habit of passing . 
The duke and Don Quixote likewise dismounted and placed themselves one at each side of her . 
Sancho took up a position in the rear of all without dismounting from Dapple , whom he dared not desert lest some mischief should befall him . 
Sancho alone , deserting Dapple at the sight of the mighty beast , took to his heels as hard as he could and strove in vain to mount a tall oak . 
I recollect having heard an old ballad sung that says , By bears be thou devoured , as erst Was famous Favila . 
That , said Don Quixote , was a Gothic king , who , going a hunting , was devoured by a bear . 
Quite the contrary , Sancho you are wrong there , said the duke for hunting is more suitable and requisite for kings and princes than for anybody else . 
Reconsider your opinion therefore , Sancho , and when you are governor take to hunting , and you will find the good of it . 
God grant it may turn out so , said the duke because it's a long step from saying to doing . 
Nay , let them only put a finger in my mouth , and they'll see whether I can bite or not . 
For my own part , I can say they give me more pleasure than others that may be better brought in and more seasonably introduced . 
The duke was astounded , the duchess amazed , Don Quixote wondering , Sancho Panza trembling , and indeed , even they who were aware of the cause were frightened . 
Well then , if I see another devil or hear another horn like the last , I'll wait here as much as in Flanders , said Sancho . 
This was done , and he came to himself by the time that one of the carts with the creaking wheels reached the spot . 
That remains to be seen , said Don Quixote , who was listening to all that passed and he was right , as is shown in the following chapter . 
Beside her was a figure in a robe of state , as they call it , reaching to the feet , while the head was covered with a black veil . 
Enchanters and magicians and their kind Are mostly hard of heart not so am I For mine is tender , soft , compassionate , And its delight is doing good to all . 
Thus have the authors of her woe resolved . 
And this is , gentles , wherefore I have come . 
By all that's good , exclaimed Sancho at this , I'll just as soon give myself three stabs with a dagger as three , not to say three thousand , lashes . 
The devil take such a way of disenchanting ! I don't see what my backside has got to do with enchantments . 
By God , if Senor Merlin has not found out some other way of disenchanting the lady Dulcinea del Toboso , she may go to her grave enchanted . 
Not a hand , my own or anybody else's , weighty or weighable , shall touch me , said Sancho . 
What say you to this , Sancho ? said the duchess . 
Let me alone , your highness , said Sancho . 
But I'd like to know of this lady , my lady Dulcinea del Toboso , where she learned this way she has of asking favours . 
These tender hearted gentry should consider that it's not merely a squire , but a governor they are asking to whip himself just as if it was 'drink with cherries . 
Well then , the fact is , friend Sancho , said the duke , that unless you become softer than a ripe fig , you shall not get hold of the government . 
In short , Sancho , either you must be whipped by yourself , or they must whip you , or you shan't be governor . 
Consent to this whipping , my son to the devil with the devil , and leave fear to milksops , for 'a stout heart breaks bad luck , as you very well know . 
So you have no cause to be uneasy about stripes too many or too few heaven forbid I should cheat anyone of even a hair of his head . 
Well then , in God's hands be it , said Sancho in the hard case I'm in I give in I say I accept the penance on the conditions laid down . 
The duchess asked Sancho the next day if he had made a beginning with his penance task which he had to perform for the disenchantment of Dulcinea . 
He said he had , and had given himself five lashes overnight . 
The duchess asked him what he had given them with . 
He said with his hand . 
And who dictated it ? asked the duchess . 
Who should have dictated but myself , sinner as I am ? said Sancho . 
And did you write it yourself ? said the duchess . 
That I didn't , said Sancho for I can neither read nor write , though I can sign my name . 
Let us see it , said the duchess , for never fear but you display in it the quality and quantity of your wit . 
Thou wilt not understand this just now , my Teresa by and by thou wilt know what it means . 
Thou art a governor's wife take care that nobody speaks evil of thee behind thy back . 
I send thee here a green hunting suit that my lady the duchess gave me alter it so as to make a petticoat and bodice for our daughter . 
With three thousand three hundred lashes , less five , that I'm to give myself , she will be left as entirely disenchanted as the mother that bore her . 
Say nothing of this to anyone for , make thy affairs public , and some will say they are white and others will say they are black . 
Dapple is well and sends many remembrances to thee I am not going to leave him behind though they took me away to be Grand Turk . 
My lady the duchess kisses thy hands a thousand times do thou make a return with two thousand , for as my master says , nothing costs less or is cheaper than civility . 
God give it to thee as he can , and keep me to serve thee . 
From this castle , the th of July , . 
Thy husband , the governor . 
No , no , said the duchess , this one will do , and I wish the duke to see it . 
With this they betook themselves to a garden where they were to dine , and the duchess showed Sancho's letter to the duke , who was highly delighted with it . 
While they were still in uncertainty they saw advancing towards them through the garden two men clad in mourning robes so long and flowing that they trailed upon the ground . 
As they marched they beat two great drums which were likewise draped in black , and beside them came the fife player , black and sombre like the others . 
Following these came a personage of gigantic stature enveloped rather than clad in a gown of the deepest black , the skirt of which was of prodigious dimensions . 
Over the gown , girdling or crossing his figure , he had a broad baldric which was also black , and from which hung a huge scimitar with a black scabbard and furniture . 
He had his face covered with a transparent black veil , through which might be descried a very long beard as white as snow . 
With this measured pace and in this guise he advanced to kneel before the duke , who , with the others , awaited him standing . 
The duke , however , would not on any account allow him to speak until he had risen . 
Turning to Don Quixote , the duke said , After all , renowned knight , the mists of malice and ignorance are unable to hide or obscure the light of valour and virtue . 
Let this duenna come and ask what she will , for I will effect her relief by the might of my arm and the dauntless resolution of my bold heart . 
they spend their time in tattling about us , digging up our bones and burying our good name . 
The duchess asked the duke if it would be proper to go out to receive her , as she was a countess and a person of rank . 
Who bade thee meddle in this , Sancho ? said Don Quixote . 
Sancho is right , said the duke we'll see what the countess is like , and by that measure the courtesy that is due to her . 
The twelve duennas halted and formed a lane , along which the Distressed One advanced , Trifaldin still holding her hand . 
On seeing this the duke , the duchess , and Don Quixote went some twelve paces forward to meet her . 
Time passed , and the young Antonomasia reached the age of fourteen , and such a perfection of beauty , that nature could not raise it higher . 
and other verses and burdens of the same sort , such as enchant when sung and fascinate when written . 
And so I say , sirs , that these troubadours richly deserve to be banished to the isles of the lizards . 
under the title of a lawful husband for , sinner though I was , would not have allowed him to approach the edge of her shoe sole without being her husband . 
No , no , not that marriage must come first in any business of this sort that I take in hand . 
I will , replied the countess . 
CHAPTER XXXIX IN WHICH THE TRIFALDI CONTINUES HER MARVELLOUS AND MEMORABLE STORY By every word that Sancho uttered , the duchess was as much delighted as Don Quixote was driven to desperation . 
She died , no doubt , said Sancho . 
Of course , said Trifaldin they don't bury living people in Kandy , only the dead . 
But let senora the Distressed One proceed for I suspect she has got yet to tell us the bitter part of this so far sweet story . 
The bitter is indeed to come , said the countess and such bitter that colocynth is sweet and oleander toothsome in comparison . 
We at once put our hands up to our faces and found ourselves in the state you now see . 
I will pluck out my own in the land of the Moors , said Don Quixote , if I don't cure yours . 
There shall be no delay on my part , said Don Quixote . 
Bethink you , senora , of what I must do , for my heart is most eager to serve you . 
This horse , according to ancient tradition , was made by Merlin . 
And how many is there room for on this horse ? asked Sancho . 
Yes , you can , my friend , replied the Trifaldi and so much , that without you , so I understand , we shall be able to do nothing . 
You are very hard on duennas , Sancho my friend , said the duchess you incline very much to the opinion of the Toledo apothecary . 
But indeed you are wrong there are duennas in my house that may serve as patterns of duennas and here is my Dona Rodriguez , who will not allow me to say otherwise . 
O giant Malambruno , though thou art an enchanter , thou art true to thy promises . 
But lo ! suddenly there came into the garden four wild men all clad in green ivy bearing on their shoulders a great wooden horse . 
They placed it on its feet on the ground , and one of the wild men said , Let the knight who has heart for it mount this machine . 
Here Sancho exclaimed , I don't mount , for neither have I the heart nor am I a knight . 
With these words , leaving Clavileno behind them , they retired with easy dignity the way they came . 
Just as I'm about to go sitting on a bare board , your worship would have me score my backside ! Indeed , your worship is not reasonable . 
Well , I will comfort myself with that promise , my good Sancho , replied Don Quixote , and I believe thou wilt keep it for indeed though stupid thou art veracious . 
I'm not voracious , said Sancho , only peckish but even if I was a little , still I'd keep my word . 
Mount , your worship , and blindfold yourself , for if I am to go on the croup , it is plain the rider in the saddle must mount first . 
Banish fear , my friend , for indeed everything is going as it ought , and we have the wind astern . 
And now they began to warm their faces , from a distance , with tow that could be easily set on fire and extinguished again , fixed on the end of a cane . 
That is true , said Sancho , but for all that I got a glimpse of a bit of one side of it , and saw it all . 
Take care , Sancho , said the duchess , with a bit of one side one does not see the whole of what one looks at . 
I am neither lying nor dreaming , said Sancho only ask me the tokens of those same goats , and you'll see by that whether I'm telling the truth or not . 
Tell us them then , Sancho , said the duchess . 
Two of them , said Sancho , are green , two blood red , two blue , and one a mixture of all colours . 
An odd sort of goat , that , said the duke in this earthly region of ours we have no such colours I mean goats of such colours . 
That's very plain , said Sancho of course there must be a difference between the goats of heaven and the goats of the earth . 
, it will be no easy matter to wrest the dignity from him , and he will be sore and sorry at heart to have been so long without becoming one . 
Senor , said Sancho , it is my belief it's a good thing to be in command , if it's only over a drove of cattle . 
Let them dress me as they like , said Sancho however I'm dressed I'll be Sancho Panza . 
First of all , my son , thou must fear God , for in the fear of him is wisdom , and being wise thou canst not err in aught . 
Secondly , thou must keep in view what thou art , striving to know thyself , the most difficult thing to know that the mind can imagine . 
That's the truth , said Sancho but that was when I was a boy afterwards when I was something more of a man it was geese I kept , not pigs . 
But to my thinking that has nothing to do with it for all who are governors don't come of a kingly stock . 
, and wilt comply with the laws of well ordered nature . 
Never go by arbitrary law , which is so much favoured by ignorant men who plume themselves on cleverness . 
Let the tears of the poor man find with thee more compassion , but not more justice , than the pleadings of the rich . 
Strive to lay bare the truth , as well amid the promises and presents of the rich man , as amid the sobs and entreaties of the poor . 
If perchance thou permittest the staff of justice to swerve , let it be not by the weight of a gift , but by that of mercy . 
Abuse not by word him whom thou hast to punish in deed , for the pain of punishment is enough for the unfortunate without the addition of thine objurgations . 
What I have thus far addressed to thee are instructions for the adornment of thy mind listen now to those which tend to that of the body . 
Dine sparingly and sup more sparingly still for the health of the whole body is forged in the workshop of the stomach . 
Be temperate in drinking , bearing in mind that wine in excess keeps neither secrets nor promises . 
Take care , Sancho , not to chew on both sides , and not to eruct in anybody's presence . 
Eruct ! said Sancho I don't know what that means . 
In truth , senor , said Sancho , one of the counsels and cautions I mean to bear in mind shall be this , not to belch , for I'm constantly doing it . 
Eruct , Sancho , not belch , said Don Quixote . 
Eruct , I shall say henceforth , and I swear not to forget it , said Sancho . 
That's it , Sancho ! said Don Quixote pack , tack , string proverbs together nobody is hindering thee ! 'My mother beats me , and I go on with my tricks . 
Mind , Sancho , I do not say that a proverb aptly brought in is objectionable but to pile up and string together proverbs at random makes conversation dull and vulgar . 
It is a great defect that thou labourest under , and therefore I would have thee learn at any rate to sign thy name . 
Those proverbs will bring thee to the gallows one day , I promise thee thy subjects will take the government from thee , or there will be revolts among them . 
By God , master mine , said Sancho , your worship is making a fuss about very little . 
By God , Sancho , said Don Quixote , for those last words thou hast uttered alone , I consider thou deservest to be governor of a thousand islands . 
To carry on the joke , then , the same evening they despatched Sancho with a large following to the village that was to serve him for an island . 
Believe me , my friend , we must pray earnestly to our Lord that he deliver us both from wicked wizards and enchanters . 
Well , I'll hold my peace but I'll take care to be on the look out henceforth for any sign that may be seen to confirm or do away with this suspicion . 
Thou wilt do well , Sancho , said Don Quixote , and thou wilt let me know all thou discoverest , and all that befalls thee in thy government . 
Sancho at last set out attended by a great number of people . 
On taking leave he kissed the hands of the duke and duchess and got his master's blessing , which Don Quixote gave him with tears , and he received blubbering . 
Indeed , Senor Don Quixote , said the duchess , that must not be four of my damsels , as beautiful as flowers , shall wait upon you . 
To me , said Don Quixote , they will not be flowers , but thorns to pierce my heart . 
They , or anything like them , shall as soon enter my chamber as fly . 
I am not the one to undermine the propriety of Senor Don Quixote , for it strikes me that among his many virtues the one that is pre eminent is that of modesty . 
Here Cide Hamete exclaimed as he was writing , O poverty , poverty ! I know not what could have possessed the great Cordovan poet to call thee 'holy gift ungratefully received . 
He at once concluded that some damsel of the duchess's was in love with him , and that her modesty forced her to keep her passion secret . 
And she for this shall famous be From Tagus to Jarama , From Manzanares to Genil , From Duero to Arlanza . 
Fain would I change with her , and give A petticoat to boot , The best and bravest that I have , All trimmed with gold galloon . 
Manchegan Nero , look not down From thy Tarpeian Rock Upon this burning heart , nor add The fuel of thy wrath . 
I hobble not nor do I limp , All blemish I'm without , And as I walk my lily locks Are trailing on the ground . 
And though my nose be rather flat , And though my mouth be wide , My teeth like topazes exalt My beauty to the sky . 
Thou knowest that my voice is sweet , That is if thou dost hear And I am moulded in a form Somewhat below the mean . 
These charms , and many more , are thine , Spoils to thy spear and bow all A damsel of this house am I , By name Altisidora . 
Ye love smitten host , know that to Dulcinea only I am dough and sugar paste , flint to all others for her I am honey , for you aloes . 
For me Dulcinea alone is beautiful , wise , virtuous , graceful , and high bred , and all others are ill favoured , foolish , light , and low born . 
To come to the point , then Sancho with all his attendants arrived at a village of some thousand inhabitants , and one of the largest the duke possessed . 
And whom do they call Don Sancho Panza ? asked Sancho . 
Your lordship , replied the majordomo for no other Panza but the one who is now seated in that chair has ever entered this island . 
Let the majordomo go on with his question , and I'll give the best answer I can , whether the people deplore or not . 
What say you to this , good old man , you with the stick ? said Sancho . 
Seeing this the great governor asked the creditor what answer he had to make to what his opponent said . 
The debtor took his stick again , and bowing his head left the court . 
They brought him back , and as soon as Sancho saw him he said , Honest man , give me that stick , for I want it . 
Willingly , said the old man here it is senor , and he put it into his hand . 
Sancho took it and , handing it to the other old man , said to him , Go , and God be with you for now you are paid . 
It was done , and in the middle of it they found ten gold crowns . 
All were filled with amazement , and looked upon their governor as another Solomon . 
four pigs , and between dues and cribbings they got out of me little less than the worth of them . 
The governor on this asked him if he had any money in silver about him he said he had about twenty ducats in a leather purse in his bosom . 
And did he take it ? asked the governor . 
Take it ! said the woman I'd let my life be taken from me sooner than the purse . 
A pretty child I'd be ! It's another sort of cat they must throw in my face , and not that poor scurvy knave . 
Upon this the governor said to the woman , Let me see that purse , my worthy and sturdy friend . 
The man thanked him as clumsily as he could and went his way , and the bystanders were again filled with admiration at their new governor's judgments and sentences . 
I guessed what he would be at , and I said 'yes . 
He , still following up his original unworthy notion , went on adding cap after cap , and I 'yes' after 'yes , until we got as far as five . 
Is all this true , brother ? said Sancho . 
If the previous decision about the cattle dealer's purse excited the admiration of the bystanders , this provoked their laughter however , the governor's orders were after all executed . 
He went to bed with them , and just like fleas they would not let him sleep or get a moment's rest , and the broken stitches of his stockings helped them . 
But as Time is fleet and no obstacle can stay his course , he came riding on the hours , and morning very soon arrived . 
Seeing which Don Quixote quitted the soft down , and , nowise slothful , dressed himself in his chamois suit and put on his travelling boots to hide the disaster to his stockings . 
Don Quixote observed it , and approaching them said , I know very well what this seizure arises from . 
Sewing , stitching , any labour , Having always work to do , To the poison Love instilleth Is the antidote most sure . 
And to proper minded maidens Who desire the matron's name Modesty's a marriage portion , Modesty their highest praise . 
Men of prudence and discretion , Courtiers gay and gallant knights , With the wanton damsels dally , But the modest take to wife . 
There are passions , transient , fleeting , Loves in hostelries declar'd , Sunrise loves , with sunset ended , When the guest hath gone his way . 
Love that springs up swift and sudden , Here to day , to morrow flown , Passes , leaves no trace behind it , Leaves no image on the soul . 
Painting that is laid on painting Maketh no display or show Where one beauty's in possession There no other can take hold . 
Dulcinea del Toboso Painted on my heart I wear Never from its tablets , never , Can her image be eras'd . 
The quality of all in lovers Most esteemed is constancy 'T is by this that love works wonders , This exalts them to the skies . 
And turning upon the cats that were running about the room , he made several cuts at them . 
The cat , however , never minding these threats , snarled and held on but at last the duke pulled it off and flung it out of the window . 
The clarions sounded as Sancho entered the room , and four pages came forward to present him with water for his hands , which Sancho received with great dignity . 
The music ceased , and Sancho seated himself at the head of the table , for there was only that seat placed , and no more than one cover laid . 
A personage , who it appeared afterwards was a physician , placed himself standing by his side with a whalebone wand in his hand . 
But hardly had he tasted a morsel when the man with the wand touched the plate with it , and they took it away from before him with the utmost celerity . 
Sancho seeing this was puzzled , and looking from one to another asked if this dinner was to be eaten after the fashion of a jugglery trick . 
To this he with the wand replied , It is not to be eaten , senor governor , except as is usual and customary in other islands where there are governors . 
Well then , said Sancho , that dish of roast partridges there that seems so savoury will not do me any harm . 
To this the physician replied , Of those my lord the governor shall not eat so long as I live . 
Why so ? said Sancho . 
Sancho on hearing this threw himself back in his chair and surveyed the doctor steadily , and in a solemn tone asked him what his name was and where he had studied . 
Once more I say let Pedro Recio get out of this or I'll take this chair I am sitting on and break it over his head . 
And if they call me to account for it , I'll clear myself by saying I served God in killing a bad doctor a general executioner . 
And now give me something to eat , or else take your government for a trade that does not feed its master is not worth two beans . 
The courier came in all sweating and flurried , and taking a paper from his bosom , placed it in the governor's hands . 
With that addition , said Sancho , you might be secretary to the emperor himself open this paper and see what it says . 
The new born secretary obeyed , and having read the contents said the matter was one to be discussed in private . 
It behoves you to be on the alert and keep watch , that they surprise you not . 
I will take care to send you aid if you find yourself in difficulty , but in all things you will act as may be expected of your judgment . 
From this place , the Sixteenth of August , at four in the morning . 
At this instant a page entered saying , Here is a farmer on business , who wants to speak to your lordship on a matter of great importance , he says . 
, I'll bring more than one man on business to order . 
However , tell this good man to come in but take care first of all that he is not some spy or one of my assassins . 
No , my lord , said the page , for he looks like a simple fellow , and either I know very little or he is as good as good bread . 
There is nothing to be afraid of , said the majordomo , for we are all here . 
God grant it , said Sancho . 
The farmer now came in , a well favoured man that one might see a thousand leagues off was an honest fellow and a good soul . 
Sancho refused it , and bade him stand up and say what he wanted . 
The farmer obeyed , and then said , I am a farmer , senor , a native of Miguelturra , a village two leagues from Ciudad Real . 
Another Tirteafuera ! said Sancho say on , brother I know Miguelturra very well I can tell you , for it's not very far from my own town . 
So that if your wife had not died , or had not been killed , you would not now be a widower , said Sancho . 
No , senor , certainly not , said the farmer . 
We've got that much settled , said Sancho get on , brother , for it's more bed time than business time . 
Paint what you will , said Sancho I enjoy your painting , and if I had dined there could be no dessert more to my taste than your portrait . 
Is there anything else you want , good man ? said Sancho . 
Just see if there's anything else you'd like , said Sancho , and don't hold back from mentioning it out of bashfulness or modesty . 
No , indeed there is not , said the farmer . 
You're not from Miguelturra , but some knave sent here from hell to tempt me . 
The very instant he had uttered these words , the door opened . 
Don Quixote in his trepidation began saying , I conjure thee , phantom , or whatever thou art , tell me what thou art and what thou wouldst with me . 
I carry nobody's messages , senor , said the duenna little you know me . 
Nay , I'm not far enough advanced in years to take to any such childish tricks . 
I believe it , replied the duenna from your worship's gentle and winning presence only such a Christian answer could be expected . 
My parents left me in service and returned to their own country , and a few years later went , no doubt , to heaven , for they were excellent good Catholic Christians . 
This much at least I cannot help telling you , that you may observe the good breeding and punctiliousness of my worthy husband . 
For heaven's sake , Dona Rodriguez , what ails my lady the duchess ? asked Don Quixote . 
Adjured in that way , replied the duenna , I cannot help answering the question and telling the whole truth . 
But surely such issues , and in such places , do not discharge humours , but liquid amber . 
Verily , I do believe now that this practice of opening issues is a very important matter for the health . 
At last Doctor Pedro Recio Agilers of Tirteafuera promised to let him have supper that night though it might be in contravention of all the aphorisms of Hippocrates . 
and he can put whatever he likes into them , so long as it is good to eat , and I'll be obliged to him , and will requite him some day . 
Nay ! make yourself honey and the flies eat you . 
I mean to protect the husbandman , to preserve to the gentleman his privileges , to reward the virtuous , and above all to respect religion and honour its ministers . 
Every day we see something new in this world jokes become realities , and the jokers find the tables turned upon them . 
Night came , and with the permission of Doctor Pedro Recio , the governor had supper . 
Said the other combatant , Senor governor , I will tell you in a very few words . 
Your worship must know that this gentleman has just now won more than a thousand reals in that gambling house opposite , and God knows how . 
I was there , and gave more than one doubtful point in his favour , very much against what my conscience told me . 
But by my faith if you had not come up I'd have made him disgorge his winnings , and he'd have learned what the range of the steel yard was . 
What say you to this ? asked Sancho . 
That is true , said the majordomo let your worship consider what is to be done with these men . 
I know already , notary , that there is a good deal to he said on that point , said Sancho . 
What did you run for , fellow ? said Sancho . 
To which the young man replied , Senor , it was to avoid answering all the questions officers of justice put . 
What are you by trade ? A weaver . 
And what do you weave ? Lance heads , with your worship's good leave . 
You're facetious with me ! You plume yourself on being a wag ? Very good and where were you going just now ? To take the air , senor . 
And where does one take the air in this island ? Where it blows . 
Ho there ! lay hold of him and take him off I'll make him sleep there to night without air . 
By God , said the young man , your worship will make me sleep in gaol just as soon as make me king . 
Why shan't I make thee sleep in gaol ? said Sancho . 
That's ridiculous , said the young man the fact is , all the men on earth will not make me sleep in prison . 
Sancho was fascinated by the girl's beauty , and he asked her who she was , where she was going , and what had induced her to dress herself in that garb . 
Hearing this the majordomo said to Sancho , Make the people stand back , senor governor , that this lady may say what she wishes with less embarrassment . 
Sancho gave the order , and all except the majordomo , the head carver , and the secretary fell back . 
I had already noticed that , said Sancho . 
There can be no doubt about it , returned the carver , and moreover her tears confirm your suspicion . 
The fact is , sirs , said she , that my father has kept me shut up these ten years , for so long is it since the earth received my mother . 
Proceed , senora , said the majordomo , and finish your story of what has happened to you , for your words and tears are keeping us all in suspense . 
I have but little more to say , though many a tear to shed , said the damsel for ill placed desires can only be paid for in some such way . 
That is true , said the damsel , but you see the confusion I was in was so great it did not let me behave as I ought . 
The youth thanked the governor for his kind offer to take them home , and they directed their steps towards the house , which was not far off . 
The duchess told the duke , and asked him to let her and Altisidora go and see what the said duenna wanted with Don Quixote . 
to Teresa Panza his wife with her husband's letter and another from herself , and also a great string of fine coral beads as a present . 
Now the history says this page was very sharp and quick witted and eager to serve his lord and lady he set off very willingly for Sancho's village . 
At the question a young girl who was washing stood up and said , Teresa Panza is my mother , and that Sancho is my father , and that knight is our master . 
Well then , miss , said the page , come and show me where your mother is , for I bring her a letter and a present from your father . 
Well , said the page , I am bringing her such good news that she will have reason to thank God . 
, a grey bodice of the same stuff , and a smock . 
Will your worship read it to me , noble sir ? said Teresa for though I can spin I can't read , not a scrap . 
Commend me to your daughter Sanchica , and tell her from me to hold herself in readiness , for I mean to make a high match for her when she least expects it . 
Your loving friend , THE DUCHESS . 
It is all for thee , my child , said Teresa but let me wear it round my neck for a few days for verily it seems to make my heart glad . 
May he live a thousand years , said Sanchica , and the bearer as many , nay two thousand , if needful . 
God help us , said the curate , we don't understand you , Teresa , or know what you are talking about . 
There , you may see it yourselves , said Teresa , and she handed them the letters . 
Square that if you can , said Carrasco well , let's go and see the messenger , and from him we'll learn something about this mystery that has turned up . 
They did so , and Teresa returned with them . 
They found the page sifting a little barley for his horse , and Sanchica cutting a rasher of bacon to be paved with eggs for his dinner . 
Bad luck to backbiters all over the world 'let me go warm and the people may laugh . 
It may be so , said the bachelor but dubitat Augustinus . 
Let one of you come with me , and he will see with his eyes what he does not believe with his ears . 
It's for me to make that trip , said Sanchica take me with you , senor , behind you on your horse for I'll go with all my heart to see my father . 
Governors' daughters , said the page , must not travel along the roads alone , but accompanied by coaches and litters and a great number of attendants . 
Come and do penance with me , said the curate at this for Senora Teresa has more will than means to serve so worthy a guest . 
It is as the senor governor says , said the messenger and as regards a complete comprehension of the case , there is nothing left to desire or hesitate about . 
That's all I ask for fair play , said Sancho give me my dinner , and then let it rain cases and questions on me , and I'll despatch them in a twinkling . 
Sancho ordered the secretary to read it to himself , and if there was nothing in it that demanded secrecy to read it aloud . 
DON QUIXOTE OF LA MANCHA'S LETTER TO SANCHO PANZA , GOVERNOR OF THE ISLAND OF BARATARIA . 
, and the other to take care that food be abundant , for there is nothing that vexes the heart of the poor more than hunger and high prices . 
Be a father to virtue and a stepfather to vice . 
Be not always strict , nor yet always lenient , but observe a mean between these two extremes , for in that is the aim of wisdom . 
My lady the duchess sent off a messenger with thy suit and another present to thy wife Teresa Panza we expect the answer every moment . 
I quote this Latin to thee because I conclude that since thou hast been a governor thou wilt have learned it . 
Adieu God keep thee from being an object of pity to anyone . 
Thy friend , DON QUIXOTE OF LA MANCHA . 
SANCHO PANZA'S LETTER TO DON QUIXOTE OF LA MANCHA . 
Your worship's servant SANCHO PANZA THE GOVERNOR . 
He reduced the prices of all manner of shoes , boots , and stockings , but of shoes in particular , as they seemed to him to run extravagantly high . 
He established a fixed rate for servants' wages , which were becoming recklessly exorbitant . 
He laid extremely heavy penalties upon those who sang lewd or loose songs either by day or night . 
In a word , he made so many good rules that to this day they are preserved there , and are called The constitutions of the great governor Sancho Panza . 
I do so place it , replied the duenna . 
And I too , added her daughter , all in tears and covered with shame and confusion . 
TERESA PANZA'S LETTER TO THE DUCHESS . 
The letter your highness wrote me , my lady , gave me great pleasure , for indeed I found it very welcome . 
The string of coral beads is very fine , and my husband's hunting suit does not fall short of it . 
God grant it , and direct him according as he sees his children stand in need of it . 
Sancha my daughter , and my son , kiss your worship's hands . 
She who would rather see your ladyship than write to you , Your servant , TERESA PANZA . 
Don Quixote said that to gratify them he would open it , and did so , and found that it ran as follows . 
TERESA PANZA'S LETTER TO HER HUSBAND SANCHO PANZA . 
I sent some acorns to my lady the duchess I wish they had been gold . 
Send me some strings of pearls if they are in fashion in that island . 
Here is the news of the village La Berrueca has married her daughter to a good for nothing painter , who came here to paint anything that might turn up . 
Pedro Lobo's son has received the first orders and tonsure , with the intention of becoming a priest . 
Minguilla , Mingo Silvato's granddaughter , found it out , and has gone to law with him on the score of having given her promise of marriage . 
Evil tongues say she is with child by him , but he denies it stoutly . 
There are no olives this year , and there is not a drop of vinegar to be had in the whole village . 
The fountain in the plaza has run dry . 
A flash of lightning struck the gibbet , and I wish they all lit there . 
Thy wife , TERESA PANZA . 
The duchess withdrew to hear from the page about his adventures in Sancho's village , which he narrated at full length without leaving a single circumstance unmentioned . 
He gave her the acorns , and also a cheese which Teresa had given him as being particularly good and superior to those of Tronchon . 
Man's life alone , swifter than time , speeds onward to its end without any hope of renewal , save it be in that other life which is endless and boundless . 
What have I to do with arming ? said Sancho . 
Lift me up , said the wretched Sancho in a woebegone voice . 
They rubbed him down , fetched him wine and unbound the shields , and he seated himself upon his bed , and with fear , agitation , and fatigue he fainted away . 
He asked what o'clock it was they told him it was just daybreak . 
He said no more , and in silence began to dress himself , while all watched him , waiting to see what the haste with which he was putting on his clothes meant . 
I was not born to be a governor or protect islands or cities from the enemies that choose to attack them . 
Ploughing and digging , vinedressing and pruning , are more in my way than defending provinces or kingdoms . 
'Saint Peter is very well at Rome I mean each of us is best following the trade he was born to . 
You spoke late , said Sancho . 
I'd as soon turn Turk as stay any longer . 
Those jokes won't pass a second time . 
By God I'd as soon remain in this government , or take another , even if it was offered me between two plates , as fly to heaven without wings . 
Let your worship do so for the ten days you have held the government , and then you may go and the peace of God go with you . 
By God the great Sancho is right , said Doctor Recio , and we should let him go , for the duke will be beyond measure glad to see him . 
They all agreed to this , and allowed him to go , first offering to bear him company and furnish him with all he wanted for his own comfort or for the journey . 
They all embraced him , and he with tears embraced all of them , and left them filled with admiration not only at his remarks but at his firm and sensible resolution . 
They received them very gladly , but exclaimed , Geld ! Geld ! I don't understand what you want of me , good people , said Sancho . 
Sancho complied , and Ricote having spoken to the other pilgrims they withdrew to the grove they saw , turning a considerable distance out of the road . 
They carried alforjas all of them , and all apparently well filled , at least with things provocative of thirst , such as would summon it from two leagues off . 
They also put down a black dainty called , they say , caviar , and made of the eggs of fish , a great thirst wakener . 
Nor was there any lack of olives , dry , it is true , and without any seasoning , but for all that toothsome and pleasant . 
At length , the wine having come to an end with them , drowsiness began to come over them , and they dropped asleep on their very table and tablecloth . 
Wherever we are we weep for Spain for after all we were born there and it is our natural fatherland . 
I left our village , as I said , and went to France , but though they gave us a kind reception there I was anxious to see all I could . 
And what office is this thou hast given up , Sancho ? asked Ricote . 
I have given up being governor of an island , said Sancho , and such a one , faith , as you won't find the like of easily . 
And where is this island ? said Ricote . 
Where ? said Sancho two leagues from here , and it is called the island of Barataria . 
Nonsense ! Sancho , said Ricote islands are away out in the sea there are no islands on the mainland . 
And what hast thou gained by the government ? asked Ricote . 
I don't understand thee , Sancho , said Ricote but it seems to me all nonsense thou art talking . 
, and I will give thee wherewithal to keep thee , as I told thee . 
There he saw fair and pleasant visions , but here I'll see , I imagine , toads and adders . 
And now he perceived on one side of the pit a hole large enough to admit a person if he stooped and squeezed himself into a small compass . 
Nor was this all one would have fancied the ass understood what Sancho said , because that moment he began to bray so loudly that the whole cave rang again . 
Famous testimony ! exclaimed Don Quixote I know that bray as well as if I was its mother , and thy voice too , my Sancho . 
Go , your worship , said Sancho , and come back quick for God's sake for I cannot bear being buried alive any longer , and I'm dying of fear . 
If a governor comes out of his government rich , they say he has been a thief and if he comes out poor , that he has been a noodle and a blockhead . 
They'll be pretty sure this time , said Sancho , to set me down for a fool rather than a thief . 
Whether I have governed well or ill , I have had witnesses who will say what they think fit . 
I have answered questions , I have decided causes , and always dying of hunger , for Doctor Pedro Recio of Tirteafuera , the island and governor doctor , would have it so . 
The duchess also embraced him , and gave orders that he should be taken good care of , as it was plain to see he had been badly treated and worse bruised . 
and not push such an arduous venture to its extreme limits . 
Don Quixote bade his excellence arrange all matters connected with the affair as he pleased , as on his part he would obey him in everything . 
The horse was a manifest Frieslander , broad backed and flea bitten , and with half a hundred of wool hanging to each of his fetlocks . 
They said they did , and that whatever he should do in that behalf they declared rightly done , final and valid . 
The master of the ceremonies apportioned the sun to them , and stationed them , each on the spot where he was to stand . 
Our lacquey , however , was thinking of something very different he only thought of what I am now going to mention . 
Don Quixote pulled up in mid career when he saw that his enemy was not coming on to the attack . 
And he does well , said Sancho , for what thou hast to give to the mouse , give to the cat , and it will save thee all trouble . 
They removed it in all haste , and his lacquey features were revealed to public gaze . 
Oh , senor , said Sancho , those scoundrels are well used to changing whatever concerns my master from one thing into another . 
To be brief , all the talk and all that had happened ended in Tosilos being shut up until it was seen how his transformation turned out . 
They gave it , showing at the same time that they were very sorry he was leaving them . 
The whole household of the castle were watching him from the corridors , and the duke and duchess , too , came out to see him . 
Sancho was mounted on his Dapple , with his alforjas , valise , and proven . 
Thou hast jilted a maiden As fair to behold As nymph of Diana Or Venus of old . 
May thy grandest adventures Discomfitures prove , May thy joys be all dreams , And forgotten thy love . 
It shows a bad heart and does not tally with your reputation . 
God forbid , said Don Quixote , that I should draw my sword against your illustrious person from which I have received such great favours . 
I have never been a thief , my lord duke , nor do I mean to be so long as I live , if God cease not to have me in his keeping . 
Didn't I say so ? said Sancho . 
I'm a likely one to hide thefts ! Why if I wanted to deal in them , opportunities came ready enough to me in my government . 
They had beside them what seemed to be white sheets concealing some objects under them , standing upright or lying flat , and arranged at intervals . 
Don Quixote approached the diners , and , saluting them courteously first , he asked them what it was those cloths covered . 
With your good leave , said Don Quixote , I should like to see them for images that are carried so carefully no doubt must be fine ones . 
The whole group was one blaze of gold , as the saying is . 
Let us see this next one . 
The man uncovered it , and it was seen to be that of Saint Martin on his horse , dividing his cloak with the beggar . 
It was not that , most likely , said Sancho , but that he held with the proverb that says , 'For giving and keeping there's need of brains . 
They then raised another cloth which it appeared covered Saint Paul falling from his horse , with all the details that are usually given in representations of his conversion . 
May God hear and sin be deaf , said Sancho to this . 
The men were filled with wonder , as well at the figure as at the words of Don Quixote , though they did not understand one half of what he meant by them . 
They finished their dinner , took their images on their backs , and bidding farewell to Don Quixote resumed their journey . 
The wise man and the Christian should not trifle with what it may please heaven to do . 
Thus , Sancho , meeting those images has been to me a most happy occurrence . 
Notable cruelty ! exclaimed Sancho unheard of ingratitude ! I can only say for myself that the very smallest loving word of hers would have subdued me and made a slave of me . 
May I die if the enchanters that persecute me are not trying to entangle me in them and delay my journey , by way of revenge for my obduracy towards Altisidora . 
Such was the spectacle that filled Sancho with amazement , fascinated Don Quixote , made the sun halt in his course to behold them , and held all four in a strange silence . 
If you please to he our guest , senor , you will be welcomed heartily and courteously , for here just now neither care nor sorrow shall enter . 
I will lay a wager that this good fellow who is with him is one Sancho Panza his squire , whose drolleries none can equal . 
And justly awarded , said Don Quixote , unless , indeed , your unequalled beauty makes it a matter of doubt . 
But spare yourselves the trouble , ladies , of pressing me to stay , for the urgent calls of my profession do not allow me to take rest under any circumstances . 
They told him that their companion was the valiant Don Quixote of La Mancha , and the other Sancho his squire , of whom he knew already from having read their history . 
The gay shepherd offered him his services and begged that he would accompany him to their tents , and Don Quixote had to give way and comply . 
And now the gave was started , and the nets were filled with a variety of birds that deceived by the colour fell into the danger they were flying from . 
They repaired to the tents , where they found tables laid out , and choicely , plentifully , and neatly furnished . 
They treated Don Quixote as a person of distinction , giving him the place of honour , and all observed him , and were full of astonishment at the spectacle . 
Sancho followed on Dapple , together with all the members of the pastoral gathering , eager to see what would be the upshot of his vainglorious and extraordinary proposal . 
Wherefore , let him who is of the opposite opinion come on , for here I await him . 
Confess at once , scoundrels , that what I have declared is true else ye have to deal with me in combat . 
Sancho was left crushed , Don Quixote scared , Dapple belaboured and Rocinante in no very sound condition . 
The retreating party in their haste , however , did not stop for that , or heed his menaces any more than last year's clouds . 
Weariness brought Don Quixote to a halt , and more enraged than avenged he sat down on the road to wait until Sancho , Rocinante and Dapple came up . 
There is a good deal to be said on that point , said Sancho let us both go to sleep now , and after that , God has decreed what will happen . 
Let me tell your worship that for a man to whip himself in cold blood is a hard thing , especially if the stripes fall upon an ill nourished and worse fed body . 
They woke up rather late , mounted once more and resumed their journey , pushing on to reach an inn which was in sight , apparently a league off . 
I say an inn , because Don Quixote called it so , contrary to his usual practice of calling all inns castles . 
They reached it , and asked the landlord if they could put up there . 
He said yes , with as much comfort and as good fare as they could find in Saragossa . 
They dismounted , and Sancho stowed away his larder in a room of which the landlord gave him the key . 
Supper time came , and they repaired to their room , and Sancho asked the landlord what he had to give them for supper . 
The landlord replied he had no chickens , for the kites had stolen them . 
Well then , said Sancho , let senor landlord tell them to roast a pullet , so that it is a tender one . 
Pullet ! My father ! said the landlord indeed and in truth it's only yesterday I sent over fifty to the city to sell but saving pullets ask what you will . 
In that case , said Sancho , you will not be without veal or kid . 
Just now , said the landlord , there's none in the house , for it's all finished but next week there will he enough and to spare . 
Much good that does us , said Sancho I'll lay a bet that all these short comings are going to wind up in plenty of bacon and eggs . 
Body o' me ! said Sancho , let's settle the matter say at once what you have got , and let us have no more words about it . 
Nobody shall touch them , said the landlord for the other guests I have , being persons of high quality , bring their own cook and caterer and larder with them . 
What displeases me most in it is that it represents Don Quixote as now cured of his love for Dulcinea del Toboso . 
Who is this that answers us ? said they in the next room . 
From your talk , friend , said Don Jeronimo , no doubt you are Sancho Panza , Senor Don Quixote's squire . 
Yes , I am , said Sancho and I'm proud of it . 
Don Quixote , who was always polite , yielded to their request and supped with them . 
Sancho stayed behind with the stew . 
I wish he may not call me drunkard too . 
Let him who will paint me , said Don Quixote but let him not abuse me for patience will often break down when they heap insults upon it . 
They asked him whither he meant to direct his steps . 
He replied , to Saragossa , to take part in the harness jousts which were held in that city every year . 
You will do quite right , said Don Jeronimo and there are other jousts at Barcelona in which Senor Don Quixote may display his prowess . 
And me too , said Sancho maybe I'll be good for something . 
Don Quixote rose betimes , and bade adieu to his hosts by knocking at the partition of the other room . 
Sancho paid the landlord magnificently , and recommended him either to say less about the providing of his inn or to keep it better provided . 
How now , traitor ! exclaimed Don Quixote . 
Don Quixote did so , and asked him what had happened to him , and what he was afraid of . 
Sancho replied that all the trees were full of men's feet and legs . 
He was mounted upon a powerful horse , and had on a coat of mail , with four of the pistols they call petronels in that country at his waist . 
were about to rifle Sancho Panza , but he ordered them to desist and was at once obeyed , so the girdle escaped . 
Thou knowest that this Torrellas has a son who is called , or at least was not two hours since , Don Vicente Torrellas . 
Well , to cut short the tale of my misfortune , I will tell thee in a few words what this youth has brought upon me . 
In a word , he pledged himself to be mine , and I promised to be his , without carrying matters any further . 
They made haste to overtake them , which , as the party moved slowly , they were able to do with ease . 
Claudia wrung his hands , and her own heart was so wrung that she lay fainting on the bleeding breast of Don Vicente , whom a death spasm seized the same instant . 
Roque was in perplexity and knew not what to do the servants ran to fetch water to sprinkle their faces , and brought some and bathed them with it . 
Claudia recovered from her fainting fit , but not so Don Vicente from the paroxysm that had overtaken him , for his life had come to an end . 
The servants wept , Claudia swooned away again and again , and the whole place seemed a field of sorrow and an abode of misfortune . 
In the end Roque Guinart directed Don Vicente's servants to carry his body to his father's village , which was close by , for burial . 
Claudia told him she meant to go to a monastery of which an aunt of hers was abbess , where she intended to pass her life with a better and everlasting spouse . 
Claudia would not on any account allow him to accompany her and thanking him for his offers as well as she could , took leave of him in tears . 
Roque on coming up asked Sancho if his men had returned and restored to him the treasures and jewels they had stripped off Dapple . 
Sancho said they had , but that three kerchiefs that were worth three cities were missing . 
What are you talking about , man ? said one of the bystanders I have got them , and they are not worth three reals . 
That is true , said Don Quixote but my squire values them at the rate he says , as having been given me by the person who gave them . 
Upon this Sancho remarked , From what I have seen here , justice is such a good thing that there is no doing without it , even among the thieves themselves . 
Sancho was frightened out of his wits , and vowed not to open his lips so long as he was in the company of these people . 
Well then , away with you all , said Roque , and bring them here to me at once without letting one of them escape . 
What led me into it was a certain thirst for vengeance , which is strong enough to disturb the quietest hearts . 
The squires made a ring round them , both victors and vanquished maintaining profound silence , waiting for the great Roque Guinart to speak . 
Profuse and hearty were the expressions of gratitude with which the captains thanked Roque for his courtesy and generosity for such they regarded his leaving them their own money . 
The regent's lady ordered one of her servants to give the eighty crowns that had been assessed as her share at once , for the captains had already paid down their sixty . 
They were all taken aback , and not one of them dared to utter a word , such deference did they pay him . 
At daybreak they were in one spot , at dinner time in another sometimes they fled without knowing from whom , at other times they lay in wait , not knowing for what . 
They slept standing , breaking their slumbers to shift from place to place . 
There was nothing but sending out spies and scouts , posting sentinels and blowing the matches of harquebusses , though they carried but few , for almost all used flintlocks . 
, left them with many expressions of good will on both sides . 
The bright sea , the smiling earth , the clear air though at times darkened by the smoke of the guns all seemed to fill the whole multitude with unexpected delight . 
Sancho could not make out how it was that those great masses that moved over the sea had so many feet . 
Don Quixote , covered with shame and out of countenance , ran to pluck the plume from his poor jade's tail , while Sancho did the same for Dapple . 
His conductors tried to punish the audacity of the boys , but there was no possibility of doing so , for they hid themselves among the hundreds of others that were following them . 
Such were the drolleries of Sancho that all the servants of the house , and all who heard him , were kept hanging upon his lips . 
Indeed , said Don Quixote , Sancho's moderation and cleanliness in eating might be inscribed and graved on plates of brass , to be kept in eternal remembrance in ages to come . 
What ! said Don Antonio , has Sancho been a governor ? Ay , said Sancho , and of an island called Barataria . 
Don Quixote then gave them a minute account of the whole affair of Sancho's government , with which he greatly amused his hearers . 
In the interval your worship may consider what you would like to ask it and I know by experience that in all its answers it tells the truth . 
They then quitted the room , Don Antonio locked the door , and they repaired to the chamber where the rest of the gentlemen were assembled . 
In the meantime Sancho had recounted to them several of the adventures and accidents that had happened his master . 
Orders were left with the servants to entertain Sancho so as not to let him leave the house . 
Don Quixote was mounted , not on Rocinante , but upon a tall mule of easy pace and handsomely caparisoned . 
Go your own way , brother , said Don Antonio , and don't offer advice to those who don't ask you for it . 
Several of them came , they supped sumptuously , the dance began at about ten o'clock . 
Among the ladies were two of a mischievous and frolicsome turn , and , though perfectly modest , somewhat free in playing tricks for harmless diversion sake . 
These two were so indefatigable in taking Don Quixote out to dance that they tired him down , not only in body but in spirit . 
If it had been the shoe fling you were at I could take your place , for I can do the shoe fling like a gerfalcon but I'm no good at dancing . 
All were thunderstruck at this , and all the more so as they saw that there was nobody anywhere near the table or in the whole room that could have answered . 
I question thee no further , said the fair querist . 
Then one of Don Antonio's two friends advanced and asked it , Who am I ? Thou knowest , was the answer . 
That is not what I ask thee , said the gentleman , but to tell me if thou knowest me . 
Yes , I know thee , thou art Don Pedro Noriz , was the reply . 
That's 'what I see with my eyes I point out with my finger , said the gentleman , so I ask no more . 
Sancho's whipping will proceed leisurely . 
The disenchantment of Dulcinea will attain its due consummation . 
Good , by God ! said Sancho Panza I could have told myself that the prophet Perogrullo could have said no more . 
The questions and answers came to an end here , but not the wonder with which all were filled , except Don Antonio's two friends who were in the secret . 
This Cide Hamete Benengeli thought fit to reveal at once , not to keep the world in suspense , fancying that the head had some strange magical mystery in it . 
Through the entire cavity in the pedestal , table , throat and neck of the bust or figure , there passed a tube of tin carefully adjusted and concealed from sight . 
He went up to one case and asked what they were about there the workmen told him , he watched them with wonder , and passed on . 
He approached one man , among others , and asked him what he was doing . 
has translated an Italian book into our Spanish tongue , and I am setting it up in type for the press . 
What is the title of the book ? asked Don Quixote to which the author replied , Senor , in Italian the book is called Le Bagatelle . 
And what does Le Bagatelle import in our Spanish ? asked Don Quixote . 
Le Bagatelle , said the author , is as though we should say in Spanish Los Juguetes but though the book is humble in name it has good solid matter in it . 
I translate them so of course , said the author , for those are their proper equivalents . 
I would venture to swear , said Don Quixote , that your worship is not known in the world , which always begrudges their reward to rare wits and praiseworthy labours . 
A fine calculation you are making ! said Don Quixote it is plain you don't know the ins and outs of the printers , and how they play into one another's hands . 
To resume that afternoon their host Don Antonio Moreno and his two friends , with Don Quixote and Sancho , went to the galleys . 
by exclaiming Hu , hu , hu , three times . 
Don Quixote delighted beyond measure with such a lordly reception , replied to him in words no less courteous . 
Sancho was seated on the captain's stage , close to the aftermost rower on the right hand side . 
At this instant they struck the awning and lowered the yard with a prodigious rattle . 
The crew then hoisted the yard with the same rapidity and clatter as when they lowered it , all the while keeping silence as though they had neither voice nor breath . 
moving all together , he said to himself , It's these that are the real chanted things , and not the ones my master talks of . 
The three others immediately came alongside the chief galley to receive their orders . 
The general ordered two to put out to sea while he with the other kept in shore , so that in this way the vessel could not escape them . 
The crews plied the oars driving the galleys so furiously that they seemed to fly . 
The general anchored close in , and perceived that the viceroy of the city was on the shore . 
, This young man , senor that you see here is our rais , and he pointed to one of the handsomest and most gallant looking youths that could be imagined . 
He did not seem to be twenty years of age . 
You have had a good chase , senor general , said the viceroy . 
Your excellency shall soon see how good , by the game strung up to this yard , replied the general . 
How so ? returned the viceroy . 
What art thou , then ? said the viceroy . 
A Christian woman , replied the youth . 
A woman and a Christian , in such a dress and in such circumstances ! It is more marvellous than credible , said the viceroy . 
Suspend the execution of the sentence , said the youth your vengeance will not lose much by waiting while I tell you the story of my life . 
With this permission the youth began in these words . 
Born of Morisco parents , I am of that nation , more unhappy than wise , upon which of late a sea of woes has poured down . 
He charged me on no account to touch the treasure , if by any chance they expelled us before his return . 
The king heard of my beauty , and report told him of my wealth , which was in some degree fortunate for me . 
He summoned me before him , and asked me what part of Spain I came from , and what money and jewels I had . 
I mentioned the place , and told him the jewels and money were buried there but that they might easily be recovered if I myself went back for them . 
All this I told him , in dread lest my beauty and not his own covetousness should influence him . 
While he was engaged in conversation with me , they brought him word that in company with me was one of the handsomest and most graceful youths that could be imagined . 
I knew at once that they were speaking of Don Gaspar Gregorio , whose comeliness surpasses the most highly vaunted beauty . 
I was troubled when I thought of the danger he was in , for among those barbarous Turks a fair youth is more esteemed than a woman , be she ever so beautiful . 
The king immediately ordered him to be brought before him that he might see him , and asked me if what they said about the youth was true . 
He bade me go by all means , and said that the next day we should discuss the plan to be adopted for my return to Spain to carry away the hidden treasure . 
may be left to the imagination of those who are separated if they love one an . 
The king then arranged that I should return to Spain in this brigantine , and that two Turks , those who killed your soldiers , should accompany me . 
The rest of the crew of the brigantine are Moors and Turks , who merely serve as rowers . 
We sighted this shore last night , and knowing nothing of these galleys , we were discovered , and the result was what you have seen . 
The viceroy , touched with compassion , went up to her without speaking and untied the cord that bound the hands of the Moorish girl . 
She is Ana Felix , surnamed Ricote , celebrated as much for her own beauty as for my wealth . 
The viceroy , however , begged him earnestly not to hang them , as their behaviour savoured rather of madness than of bravado . 
The general yielded to the viceroy's request , for revenge is not easily taken in cold blood . 
They then tried to devise some scheme for rescuing Don Gaspar Gregorio from the danger in which he had been left . 
Don Antonio then said that if the renegade did not prove successful , the expedient of the great Don Quixote's expedition to Barbary should be adopted . 
Consider which will be thy best course , and give me thy answer speedily , for this day is all the time I have for the despatch of this business . 
Take , therefore , the side of the field you choose , and I will do the same and to whom God shall give it may Saint Peter add his blessing . 
The Knight of the White Moon had been seen from the city , and it was told the viceroy how he was in conversation with Don Quixote . 
Don Antonio replied that he neither knew who he was nor whether the defiance was in joke or in earnest . 
, he hurled Don Quixote and Rocinante to the earth , a perilous fall . 
The viceroy bade Don Antonio hasten after him , and by some means or other find out who he was . 
They raised Don Quixote up and uncovered his face , and found him pale and bathed with sweat . 
Rocinante from the mere hard measure he had received lay unable to stir for the present . 
Sancho , wholly dejected and woebegone , knew not what to say or do . 
He fancied that all was a dream , that the whole business was a piece of enchantment . 
Here was his master defeated , and bound not to take up arms for a year . 
You must know , senor , that I am called the bachelor Samson Carrasco . 
was that he should return to his own village , and not leave it for a whole year , by which time he might he cured . 
But fate ordered it otherwise , for he vanquished me and unhorsed me , and so my plan failed . 
He went his way , and I came back conquered , covered with shame , and sorely bruised by my fall , which was a particularly dangerous one . 
But this did not quench my desire to meet him again and overcome him , as you have seen to day . 
This , senor , is how the matter stands , and I have nothing more to tell you . 
O senor , said Don Antonio , may God forgive you the wrong you have done the whole world in trying to bring the most amusing madman in it back to his senses . 
However , I'll hold my peace and say nothing to him , and we'll see whether I am right in my suspicion that Senor Carrasco's efforts will be fruitless . 
Six days did Don Quixote keep his bed , dejected , melancholy , moody and out of sorts , brooding over the unhappy event of his defeat . 
May God hear it and sin be deaf , said Sancho I have always heard say that 'a good hope is better than a bad holding . 
Ricote and his daughter came out to welcome him , the father with tears , the daughter with bashfulness . 
They did not embrace each other , for where there is deep love there will never be overmuch boldness . 
Seen side by side , the comeliness of Don Gregorio and the beauty of Ana Felix were the admiration of all who were present . 
It was silence that spoke for the lovers at that moment , and their eyes were the tongues that declared their pure and happy feelings . 
Ana Felix remained with Don Antonio's wife , and Ricote in the viceroy's house . 
The day for Don Antonio's departure came and two days later that for Don Quixote's and Sancho's , for Don Quixote's fall did not suffer him to take the road sooner . 
There were tears and sighs , swoonings and sobs , at the parting between Don Gregorio and Ana Felix . 
Thou art a great philosopher , Sancho , said Don Quixote thou speakest very sensibly I know not who taught thee . 
Senor , returned Sancho , travelling on foot is not such a pleasant thing that it makes me feel disposed or tempted to make long marches . 
And yet , I had rather not have either him or the armour hung up , said Don Quixote , that it may not be said , 'for good service a bad return . 
That I will , certainly , said Don Quixote , and according to the rights of the case , if I can manage to understand it . 
Answer in God's name , Sancho my friend , said Don Quixote , for I am not fit to give crumbs to a cat , my wits are so confused and upset . 
I am Tosilos , my lord the duke's lacquey , Senor Don Quixote , replied the courier he who refused to fight your worship about marrying the daughter of Dona Rodriguez . 
I take the offer , said Sancho no more compliments about it pour out , good Tosilos , in spite of all the enchanters in the Indies . 
Said Tosilos to Sancho , Beyond a doubt , Sancho my friend , this master of thine ought to be a madman . 
Ought ! said Sancho he owes no man anything he pays for everything , particularly when the coin is madness . 
He was under the shade of a tree , as has been said , and there , like flies on honey , thoughts came crowding upon him and stinging him . 
Some of them turned upon the disenchantment of Dulcinea , others upon the life he was about to lead in his enforced retirement . 
Sancho came up and spoke in high praise of the generous disposition of the lacquey Tosilos . 
A knight may very possibly he proof against love but it is impossible , strictly speaking , for him to be ungrateful . 
As they pursued their journey talking in this way they came to the very same spot where they had been trampled on by the bulls . 
It won't do for the curate to have a shepherdess , for the sake of good example and if the bachelor chooses to have one , that is his look out . 
What are albogues ? asked Sancho , for I never in my life heard tell of them or saw them . 
Alheli and alfaqui are seen to be Arabic , as well by the al at the beginning as by the they end with . 
To this Sancho made answer , I am so unlucky , senor , that I'm afraid the day will never come when I'll see myself at such a calling . 
My daughter Sanchica will bring us our dinner to the pasture . 
It seems to me , said Sancho , that your worship is like the common saying , 'Said the frying pan to the kettle , Get away , blackbreech . 
You chide me for uttering proverbs , and you string them in couples yourself . 
But enough of this as nightfall is drawing on let us retire some little distance from the high road to pass the night what is in store for us to morrow God knoweth . 
Don Quixote's cares kept him restless , so much so that he awoke Sancho and said to him , I am amazed , Sancho , at the unconcern of thy temperament . 
I believe thou art made of marble or hard brass , incapable of any emotion or feeling whatever . 
I lie awake while thou sleepest , I weep while thou singest , I am faint with fasting while thou art sluggish and torpid from pure repletion . 
It is the duty of good servants to share the sufferings and feel the sorrows of their masters , if it be only for the sake of appearances . 
See the calmness of the night , the solitude of the spot , inviting us to break our slumbers by a vigil of some sort . 
Sleep , I have heard say , has only one fault , that it is like death for between a sleeping man and a dead man there is very little difference . 
At this point they became aware of a harsh indistinct noise that seemed to spread through all the valleys around . 
Each instant the noise increased and came nearer to the two terrified men , or at least to one , for as to the other , his courage is known to all . 
I suppose it is the chastisement of heaven , too , said Sancho , that flies should prick the squires of vanquished knights , and lice eat them , and hunger assail them . 
But drawing near That welcome haven in my sea of woe , Such joy I know , That life revives , and still I linger here . 
And now daylight came , and the sun smote Sancho on the eyes with his beams . 
Then the pair resumed their journey , and as evening closed in they saw coming towards them some ten men on horseback and four or five on foot . 
Don Quixote's heart beat quick and Sancho's quailed with fear , for the persons approaching them carried lances and bucklers , and were in very warlike guise . 
The men on horseback now came up , and raising their lances surrounded Don Quixote in silence , and pointed them at his back and breast , menacing him with death . 
And now , about an hour after midnight , they reached a castle which Don Quixote saw at once was the duke's , where they had been but a short time before . 
Upon the catafalque was seen the dead body of a damsel so lovely that by her beauty she made death itself look beautiful . 
Who would not have been amazed at this ? Nor was this all , for Don Quixote had perceived that the dead body on the catafalque was that of the fair Altisidora . 
As the duke and duchess mounted the stage Don Quixote and Sancho rose and made them a profound obeisance , which they returned by bowing their heads slightly . 
Sancho surveyed himself from head to foot and saw himself all ablaze with flames but as they did not burn him , he did not care two farthings for them . 
Don Quixote surveyed him too , and though fear had got the better of his faculties , he could not help smiling to see the figure Sancho presented . 
, had a soft and languishing effect . 
On hearing this Sancho broke silence and cried out , By all that's good , I'll as soon let my face be smacked or handled as turn Moor . 
Ho , I say , officials , obey my orders or by the word of an honest man , ye shall see what ye were born for . 
Less politeness and less paint , senora duenna , said Sancho by God your hands smell of vinegar wash . 
Now , I say , is the time when the virtue that is in thee is ripe , and endowed with efficacy to work the good that is looked for from thee . 
Leave me alone or else by God I'll fling the whole thing to the dogs , let come what may . 
Sancho kissed her hands in gratitude , kneeling , and with the mitre in his hand . 
The duke bade them take it from him , and give him back his cap and doublet and remove the flaming robe . 
Sancho begged the duke to let them leave him the robe and mitre as he wanted to take them home for a token and memento of that unexampled adventure . 
The duchess said they must leave them with him for he knew already what a great friend of his she was . 
Sleep , Sancho my friend , said Don Quixote , if the pinprodding and pinches thou hast received and the smacks administered to thee will let thee . 
Be it so , and God be with thee , said Don Quixote . 
He came to the duke's castle , and the duke informed him of the road and route Don Quixote had taken with the intention of being present at the jousts at Saragossa . 
to return that way and let him know the result . 
This the bachelor did he set out in quest of Don Quixote , and not finding him at Saragossa , he went on , and how he fared has been already told . 
And so he took his leave of the duke , and went home to his village to wait there for Don Quixote , who was coming after him . 
Thereupon the duke seized the opportunity of practising this mystification upon him so much did he enjoy everything connected with Sancho and Don Quixote . 
Love might very well have let it rest upon the sufferings of my ass , and I should have been obliged to him , said Sancho . 
That's no wonder , said Sancho for devils , whether playing or not , can never be content , win or lose . 
To one of them , a brand new , well bound one , they gave such a stroke that they knocked the guts out of it and scattered the leaves about . 
'Out of this with it , said the first , 'and into the depths of hell with it out of my sight . 
'Is it so bad ? said the other . 
'So bad is it , said the first , 'that if I had set myself deliberately to make a worse , I could not have done it . 
This frank declaration should suffice to make you retire within the bounds of your modesty , for no one can bind himself to do impossibilities . 
They gave it very readily , and the duchess asked him if Altisidora was in his good graces . 
He replied , Senora , let me tell your ladyship that this damsel's ailment comes entirely of idleness , and the cure for it is honest and constant employment . 
I speak from my own experience for when I'm digging I never think of my old woman I mean my Teresa Panza , whom I love better than my own eyelids . 
You say well , Sancho , said the duchess , and I will take care that my Altisidora employs herself henceforward in needlework of some sort for she is extremely expert at it . 
That reminds me of the common saying , that 'he that rails is ready to forgive , said the duke . 
Altisidora then , pretending to wipe away her tears with a handkerchief , made an obeisance to her master and mistress and quitted the room . 
So the conversation came to an end , and Don Quixote dressed himself and dined with the duke and duchess , and set out the same evening . 
I am not sure , however , whether payment will comport with the cure , and I would not have the reward interfere with the medicine . 
Let your worship say how much you will pay me for each lash I give myself . 
See what thou hast of mine , and put a price on each lash . 
her misfortune will have been good fortune , and my defeat a most happy triumph . 
But look here , Sancho when wilt thou begin the scourging ? For if thou wilt make short work of it , I will give thee a hundred reals over and above . 
When ? said Sancho this night without fail . 
Let your worship order it so that we pass it out of doors and in the open air , and I'll scarify myself . 
May heaven help thee as thy good intention deserves . 
He then stripped himself from the waist upwards , and snatching up the rope he began to lay on and Don Quixote to count the lashes . 
Go on , Sancho my friend , and be not disheartened , said Don Quixote for I double the stakes as to price . 
In that case , said Sancho , in God's hand be it , and let it rain lashes . 
As thou art in such a willing mood , said Don Quixote , may heaven aid thee lay on and I'll retire . 
They quartered him in a room on the ground floor , where in place of leather hangings there were pieces of painted serge such as they commonly use in villages . 
Very likely , said Sancho we had better let him dismount , and by and by we can ask about it . 
The gentleman dismounted , and the landlady gave him a room on the ground floor opposite Don Quixote's and adorned with painted serge hangings of the same sort . 
My name is Don Alvaro Tarfe , replied the traveller . 
Tell me , Senor Don Alvaro , said Don Quixote , am I at all like that Don Quixote you talk of ? No indeed , replied the traveller , not a bit . 
I don't understand that about the lashes , said Don Alvaro . 
Sancho replied that it was a long story to tell , but he would tell him if they happened to he going the same road . 
By this dinner time arrived , and Don Quixote and Don Alvaro dined together . 
The duped Don Quixote did not miss a single stroke of the count , and he found that together with those of the night before they made up three thousand and twenty nine . 
I'm bringing back money , for if I was well whipped , I went mounted like a gentleman . 
With this they descended the slope and directed their steps to their village . 
In its terror it ran to take shelter and hide itself under Dapple . 
Sancho caught it alive and presented it to Don Quixote , who was saying , Malum signum , malum signum ! a hare flies , greyhounds chase it , Dulcinea appears not . 
The sportsmen came up and asked for their hare , which Don Quixote gave them . 
They then went on , and upon the green at the entrance of the town they came upon the curate and the bachelor Samson Carrasco busy with their breviaries . 
He had also fixed the mitre on Dapple's head , the oddest transformation and decoration that ever ass in the world underwent . 
They were at once recognised by both the curate and the bachelor , who came towards them with open arms . 
Hold your tongue , Teresa , said Sancho often 'where there are pegs there are no flitches let's go into the house and there you'll hear strange things . 
I bring money , and that's the main thing , got by my own industry without wronging anybody . 
Don Quixote replied that he himself was to be called the shepherd Quixotize and the bachelor the shepherd Carrascon , and the curate the shepherd Curambro , and Sancho Panza the shepherd Pancino . 
Very true , said the curate but we the others must look about for accommodating shepherdesses that will answer our purpose one way or another . 
And so they took their leave of him , recommending and beseeching him to take care of his health and treat himself to a suitable diet . 
, the housekeeper and niece , helped him to bed , where they gave him something to eat and made him as comfortable as possible . 
But for all this Don Quixote could not shake off his sadness . 
Don Quixote heard this calmly but not so his housekeeper , his niece , and his squire , who fell weeping bitterly , as if they had him lying dead before them . 
The doctor's opinion was that melancholy and depression were bringing him to his end . 
Don Quixote begged them to leave him to himself , as he had a wish to sleep a little . 
But at the end of that time he woke up , and in a loud voice exclaimed , Blessed be Almighty God , who has shown me such goodness . 
My reason is now free and clear , rid of the dark shadows of ignorance that my unhappy constant study of those detestable books of chivalry cast over it . 
But his niece was saved the trouble by the entrance of the three . 
All that nonsense , said Don Quixote , that until now has been a reality to my hurt , my death will , with heaven's help , turn to my good . 
The curate turned them all out , and left alone with him confessed him . 
Come , don't be lazy , but get up from your bed and let us take to the fields in shepherd's trim as we agreed . 
Perhaps behind some bush we shall find the lady Dulcinea disenchanted , as fine as fine can be . 
Very true , said Samson , and good Sancho Panza's view of these cases is quite right . 
Sirs , not so fast , said Don Quixote , 'in last year's nests there are no birds this year . 
The curate and the bachelor Samson Carrasco , now present , I appoint my executors . 
With this he closed his will , and a faintness coming over him he stretched himself out at full length on the bed . 
All were in a flutter and made haste to relieve him , and during the three days he lived after that on which he made his will he fainted away very often . 
At last Don Quixote's end came , after he had received all the sacraments , and had in full and forcible terms expressed his detestation of books of chivalry . 
He for the world but little cared And at his feats the world was scared A crazy man his life he passed , But in his senses died at last . 
