A House of Pomegranates by Oscar Wilde Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
Such , at least , was the story that men whispered to each other . 
Many curious stories were related about him at this period . 
He had passed a whole night in noting the effect of the moonlight on a silver image of Endymion . 
After some time he rose from his seat , and leaning against the carved penthouse of the chimney , looked round at the dimly lit room . 
The walls were hung with rich tapestries representing the Triumph of Beauty . 
A laughing Narcissus in green bronze held a polished mirror above its head . 
On the table stood a flat bowl of amethyst . 
Far away , in an orchard , a nightingale was singing . 
A faint perfume of jasmine came through the open window . 
He brushed his brown curls back from his forehead , and taking up a lute , let his fingers stray across the cords . 
His heavy eyelids drooped , and a strange languor came over him . 
Never before had he felt so keenly , or with such exquisite joy , the magic and the mystery of beautiful things . 
A few moments after that they had left the room , he fell asleep . 
And as he slept he dreamed a dream , and this was his dream . 
He thought that he was standing in a long , low attic , amidst the whir and clatter of many looms . 
The meagre daylight peered in through the grated windows , and showed him the gaunt figures of the weavers bending over their cases . 
Pale , sickly looking children were crouched on the huge crossbeams . 
As the shuttles dashed through the warp they lifted up the heavy battens , and when the shuttles stopped they let the battens fall and pressed the threads together . 
Their faces were pinched with famine , and their thin hands shook and trembled . 
Some haggard women were seated at a table sewing . 
A horrible odour filled the place . 
The air was foul and heavy , and the walls dripped and streamed with damp . 
The young King went over to one of the weavers , and stood by him and watched him . 
'Our master ! cried the weaver , bitterly . 
'He is a man like myself . 
'The land is free , said the young King , 'and thou art no man's slave . 
'In war , answered the weaver , 'the strong make slaves of the weak , and in peace the rich make slaves of the poor . 
We must work to live , and they give us such mean wages that we die . 
We tread out the grapes , and another drinks the wine . 
We sow the corn , and our own board is empty . 
We have chains , though no eye beholds them and are slaves , though men call us free . 
The merchants grind us down , and we must needs do their bidding . 
The priest rides by and tells his beads , and no man has care of us . 
Through our sunless lanes creeps Poverty with her hungry eyes , and Sin with his sodden face follows close behind her . 
Misery wakes us in the morning , and Shame sits with us at night . 
But what are these things to thee ? Thou art not one of us . 
Thy face is too happy . 
And he turned away scowling , and threw the shuttle across the loom , and the young King saw that it was threaded with a thread of gold . 
And he fell asleep again and dreamed , and this was his dream . 
He thought that he was lying on the deck of a huge galley that was being rowed by a hundred slaves . 
On a carpet by his side the master of the galley was seated . 
He was black as ebony , and his turban was of crimson silk . 
Great earrings of silver dragged down the thick lobes of his ears , and in his hands he had a pair of ivory scales . 
The slaves were naked , but for a ragged loin cloth , and each man was chained to his neighbour . 
The hot sun beat brightly upon them , and the negroes ran up and down the gangway and lashed them with whips of hide . 
They stretched out their lean arms and pulled the heavy oars through the water . 
The salt spray flew from the blades . 
At last they reached a little bay , and began to take soundings . 
A light wind blew from the shore , and covered the deck and the great lateen sail with a fine red dust . 
Three Arabs mounted on wild asses rode out and threw spears at them . 
The master of the galley took a painted bow in his hand and shot one of them in the throat . 
He fell heavily into the surf , and his companions galloped away . 
A woman wrapped in a yellow veil followed slowly on a camel , looking back now and then at the dead body . 
As soon as they had cast anchor and hauled down the sail , the negroes went into the hold and brought up a long rope ladder , heavily weighted with lead . 
The master of the galley threw it over the side , making the ends fast to two iron stanchions . 
Then the negroes seized the youngest of the slaves and knocked his gyves off , and filled his nostrils and his ears with wax , and tied a big stone round his waist . 
He crept wearily down the ladder , and disappeared into the sea . 
A few bubbles rose where he sank . 
Some of the other slaves peered curiously over the side . 
At the prow of the galley sat a shark charmer , beating monotonously upon a drum . 
After some time the diver rose up out of the water , and clung panting to the ladder with a pearl in his right hand . 
The negroes seized it from him , and thrust him back . 
The slaves fell asleep over their oars . 
Again and again he came up , and each time that he did so he brought with him a beautiful pearl . 
The master of the galley weighed them , and put them into a little bag of green leather . 
The young King tried to speak , but his tongue seemed to cleave to the roof of his mouth , and his lips refused to move . 
The negroes chattered to each other , and began to quarrel over a string of bright beads . 
Two cranes flew round and round the vessel . 
But his face was strangely pale , and as he fell upon the deck the blood gushed from his ears and nostrils . 
He quivered for a little , and then he was still . 
The negroes shrugged their shoulders , and threw the body overboard . 
And the master of the galley laughed , and , reaching out , he took the pearl , and when he saw it he pressed it to his forehead and bowed . 
'It shall be , he said , 'for the sceptre of the young King , and he made a sign to the negroes to draw up the anchor . 
And he fell asleep again , and dreamed , and this was his dream . 
He thought that he was wandering through a dim wood , hung with strange fruits and with beautiful poisonous flowers . 
The adders hissed at him as he went by , and the bright parrots flew screaming from branch to branch . 
Huge tortoises lay asleep upon the hot mud . 
The trees were full of apes and peacocks . 
On and on he went , till he reached the outskirts of the wood , and there he saw an immense multitude of men toiling in the bed of a dried up river . 
They swarmed up the crag like ants . 
They dug deep pits in the ground and went down into them . 
Some of them cleft the rocks with great axes others grabbled in the sand . 
They tore up the cactus by its roots , and trampled on the scarlet blossoms . 
They hurried about , calling to each other , and no man was idle . 
From the darkness of a cavern Death and Avarice watched them , and Death said , 'I am weary give me a third of them and let me go . 
But Avarice shook her head . 
'They are my servants , she answered . 
'I will not give thee anything , said Avarice , and she hid her hand in the fold of her raiment . 
And Death laughed , and took a cup , and dipped it into a pool of water , and out of the cup rose Ague . 
She passed through the great multitude , and a third of them lay dead . 
A cold mist followed her , and the water snakes ran by her side . 
And when Avarice saw that a third of the multitude was dead she beat her breast and wept . 
She beat her barren bosom , and cried aloud . 
'Thou hast slain a third of my servants , she cried , 'get thee gone . 
There is war in the mountains of Tartary , and the kings of each side are calling to thee . 
The Afghans have slain the black ox , and are marching to battle . 
They have beaten upon their shields with their spears , and have put on their helmets of iron . 
What is my valley to thee , that thou shouldst tarry in it ? Get thee gone , and come here no more . 
'Nay , answered Death , 'but till thou hast given me a grain of corn I will not go . 
But Avarice shut her hand , and clenched her teeth . 
'I will not give thee anything , she muttered . 
And Death laughed , and took up a black stone , and threw it into the forest , and out of a thicket of wild hemlock came Fever in a robe of flame . 
She passed through the multitude , and touched them , and each man that she touched died . 
The grass withered beneath her feet as she walked . 
And Avarice shuddered , and put ashes on her head . 
'Thou art cruel , she cried 'thou art cruel . 
There is famine in the walled cities of India , and the cisterns of Samarcand have run dry . 
There is famine in the walled cities of Egypt , and the locusts have come up from the desert . 
The Nile has not overflowed its banks , and the priests have cursed Isis and Osiris . 
Get thee gone to those who need thee , and leave me my servants . 
'Nay , answered Death , 'but till thou hast given me a grain of corn I will not go . 
'I will not give thee anything , said Avarice . 
And Death laughed again , and he whistled through his fingers , and a woman came flying through the air . 
Plague was written upon her forehead , and a crowd of lean vultures wheeled round her . 
She covered the valley with her wings , and no man was left alive . 
And Avarice fled shrieking through the forest , and Death leaped upon his red horse and galloped away , and his galloping was faster than the wind . 
And the young King wept , and said 'Who were these men , and for what were they seeking ? 'For rubies for a king's crown , answered one who stood behind him . 
And the young King started , and , turning round , he saw a man habited as a pilgrim and holding in his hand a mirror of silver . 
And he grew pale , and said 'For what king ? And the pilgrim answered 'Look in this mirror , and thou shalt see him . 
And the young King looked at them , and they were beautiful . 
More beautiful were they than aught that he had ever seen . 
But he remembered his dreams , and he said to his lords 'Take these things away , for I will not wear them . 
And the courtiers were amazed , and some of them laughed , for they thought that he was jesting . 
But he spake sternly to them again , and said 'Take these things away , and hide them from me . 
Though it be the day of my coronation , I will not wear them . 
For on the loom of Sorrow , and by the white hands of Pain , has this my robe been woven . 
There is Blood in the heart of the ruby , and Death in the heart of the pearl . 
And he told them his three dreams . 
For how shall the people know that thou art a king , if thou hast not a king's raiment ? And the young King looked at him . 
'Is it so , indeed ? he questioned . 
'Will they not know me for a king if I have not a king's raiment ? 'They will not know thee , my lord , cried the Chamberlain . 
'I had thought that there had been men who were kinglike , he answered , 'but it may be as thou sayest . 
And yet I will not wear this robe , nor will I be crowned with this crown , but even as I came to the palace so will I go forth from it . 
And he bade them all leave him , save one page whom he kept as his companion , a lad a year younger than himself . 
These he put on , and in his hand he took his rude shepherd's staff . 
'This shall he my crown , he answered . 
And thus attired he passed out of his chamber into the Great Hall , where the nobles were waiting for him . 
And the people laughed and said , 'It is the King's fool who is riding by , and they mocked him . 
And he drew rein and said , 'Nay , but I am the King . 
And he told them his three dreams . 
To toil for a hard master is bitter , but to have no master to toil for is more bitter still . 
Therefore go back to thy Palace and put on thy purple and fine linen . 
What hast thou to do with us , and what we suffer ? 'Are not the rich and the poor brothers ? asked the young King . 
'Ay , answered the man , 'and the name of the rich brother is Cain . 
And the young King's eyes filled with tears , and he rode on through the murmurs of the people , and the little page grew afraid and left him . 
And his face flushed with anger , and he said to them , 'I am the King , and waved their halberts aside and passed in . 
'Shall Joy wear what Grief has fashioned ? said the young King . 
And he told him his three dreams . 
The fierce robbers come down from the mountains , and carry off the little children , and sell them to the Moors . 
The lions lie in wait for the caravans , and leap upon the camels . 
The wild boar roots up the corn in the valley , and the foxes gnaw the vines upon the hill . 
The pirates lay waste the sea coast and burn the ships of the fishermen , and take their nets from them . 
In the salt marshes live the lepers they have houses of wattled reeds , and none may come nigh them . 
The beggars wander through the cities , and eat their food with the dogs . 
And as for thy dreams , think no more of them . 
The burden of this world is too great for one man to bear , and the world's sorrow too heavy for one heart to suffer . 
He knelt before the image of Christ , and the great candles burned brightly by the jewelled shrine , and the smoke of the incense curled in thin blue wreaths through the dome . 
He bowed his head in prayer , and the priests in their stiff copes crept away from the altar . 
And suddenly a wild tumult came from the street outside , and in entered the nobles with drawn swords and nodding plumes , and shields of polished steel . 
'Where is this dreamer of dreams ? they cried . 
'Where is this King who is apparelled like a beggar this boy who brings shame upon our state ? Surely we will slay him , for he is unworthy to rule over us . 
And the young King bowed his head again , and prayed , and when he had finished his prayer he rose up , and turning round he looked at them sadly . 
The dead staff blossomed , and bare lilies that were whiter than pearls . 
The dry thorn blossomed , and bare roses that were redder than rubies . 
Whiter than fine pearls were the lilies , and their stems were of bright silver . 
Redder than male rubies were the roses , and their leaves were of beaten gold . 
He stood there in a king's raiment , and the Glory of God filled the place , and the saints in their carven niches seemed to move . 
In the fair raiment of a king he stood before them , and the organ pealed out its music , and the trumpeters blew upon their trumpets , and the singing boys sang . 
And the people fell upon their knees in awe , and the nobles sheathed their swords and did homage , and the Bishop's face grew pale , and his hands trembled . 
'A greater than I hath crowned thee , he cried , and he knelt before him . 
And the young King came down from the high altar , and passed home through the midst of the people . 
But no man dared look upon his face , for it was like the face of an angel . 
THE BIRTHDAY OF THE INFANTA TO MRS . 
WILLIAM H. GRENFELL OF TAPLOW COURT LADY DESBOROUGH It was the birthday of the Infanta . 
She was just twelve years of age , and the sun was shining brightly in the gardens of the palace . 
And a really fine day it certainly was . 
The little Princess herself walked up and down the terrace with her companions , and played at hide and seek round the stone vases and the old moss grown statues . 
But the Infanta was the most graceful of all , and the most tastefully attired , after the somewhat cumbrous fashion of the day . 
Her robe was of grey satin , the skirt and the wide puffed sleeves heavily embroidered with silver , and the stiff corset studded with rows of fine pearls . 
Two tiny slippers with big pink rosettes peeped out beneath her dress as she walked . 
From a window in the palace the sad melancholy King watched them . 
Behind him stood his brother , Don Pedro of Aragon , whom he hated , and his confessor , the Grand Inquisitor of Granada , sat by his side . 
So great had been his love for her that he had not suffered even the grave to hide her from him . 
When she died he was , for a time , like one bereft of reason . 
He buried his face in his hands , and when the Infanta looked up again the curtains had been drawn , and the King had retired . 
She made a little MOUE of disappointment , and shrugged her shoulders . 
Surely he might have stayed with her on her birthday . 
Her uncle and the Grand Inquisitor were much more sensible . 
They had come out on the terrace , and paid her nice compliments . 
The children grouped themselves all round , fluttering their big fans and whispering to each other , and Don Pedro and the Grand Inquisitor stood laughing at the entrance . 
They acted so well , and their gestures were so extremely natural , that at the close of the play the eyes of the Infanta were quite dim with tears . 
The solemn minuet , too , performed by the dancing boys from the church of Nuestra Senora Del Pilar , was charming . 
So she had known only by hearsay of 'Our Lady's Dance , as it was called , and it certainly was a beautiful sight . 
So they played on very gently and just touching the cords of the zithers with their long pointed nails , and their heads began to nod as though they were falling asleep . 
Then at another signal they all flung themselves again to the ground and lay there quite still , the dull strumming of the zithers being the only sound that broke the silence . 
In fact the gipsies were a great success . 
But the funniest part of the whole morning's entertainment , was undoubtedly the dancing of the little Dwarf . 
It was his first appearance , too . 
Perhaps the most amusing thing about him was his complete unconsciousness of his own grotesque appearance . 
Indeed he seemed quite happy and full of the highest spirits . 
As for the Infanta , she absolutely fascinated him . 
'He is really far too ugly to be allowed to play in any place where we are , cried the Tulips . 
'He should drink poppy juice , and go to sleep for a thousand years , said the great scarlet Lilies , and they grew quite hot and angry . 
'He is a perfect horror ! screamed the Cactus . 
'Why , he is twisted and stumpy , and his head is completely out of proportion with his legs . 
Really he makes me feel prickly all over , and if he comes near me I will sting him with my thorns . 
'And he has actually got one of my best blooms , exclaimed the White Rose Tree . 
'I gave it to the Infanta this morning myself , as a birthday present , and he has stolen it from her . 
And she called out 'Thief , thief , thief ! at the top of her voice . 
But somehow the Birds liked him . 
They did not mind his being ugly , a bit . 
'Every one cannot be as beautiful as a lizard , they cried 'that would be too much to expect . 
The Flowers , however , were excessively annoyed at their behaviour , and at the behaviour of the birds . 
'It only shows , they said , 'what a vulgarising effect this incessant rushing and flying about has . 
Well bred people always stay exactly in the same place , as we do . 
No one ever saw us hopping up and down the walks , or galloping madly through the grass after dragon flies . 
When we do want change of air , we send for the gardener , and he carries us to another bed . 
This is dignified , and as it should be . 
But birds and lizards have no sense of repose , and indeed birds have not even a permanent address . 
They are mere vagrants like the gipsies , and should be treated in exactly the same manner . 
'He should certainly be kept indoors for the rest of his natural life , they said . 
'Look at his hunched back , and his crooked legs , and they began to titter . 
But the little Dwarf knew nothing of all this . 
For though he had never been in a palace before , he knew a great many wonderful things . 
He could make little cages out of rushes for the grasshoppers to sing in , and fashion the long jointed bamboo into the pipe that Pan loves to hear . 
He knew the cry of every bird , and could call the starlings from the tree top , or the heron from the mere . 
He knew the trail of every animal , and could track the hare by its delicate footprints , and the boar by the trampled leaves . 
They were quite tame , and used to feed out of his hands every morning . 
Yes , she must certainly come to the forest and play with him . 
And at dawn he would tap at the shutters and wake her , and they would go out and dance together all the day long . 
It was really not a bit lonely in the forest . 
Sometimes a Bishop rode through on his white mule , reading out of a painted book . 
Sometimes in their green velvet caps , and their jerkins of tanned deerskin , the falconers passed by , with hooded hawks on their wrists . 
Once , too , he had seen a beautiful procession winding up the long dusty road to Toledo . 
He would bring her acorn cups and dew drenched anemones , and tiny glow worms to be stars in the pale gold of her hair . 
But where was she ? He asked the white rose , and it made him no answer . 
The whole palace seemed asleep , and even where the shutters had not been closed , heavy curtains had been drawn across the windows to keep out the glare . 
He wandered all round looking for some place through which he might gain an entrance , and at last he caught sight of a little private door that was lying open . 
But the little Infanta was not there , only some wonderful white statues that looked down on him from their jasper pedestals , with sad blank eyes and strangely smiling lips . 
Perhaps she was hiding behind that ? He would try at any rate . 
So he stole quietly across , and drew it aside . 
No there was only another room , though a prettier room , he thought , than the one he had just left . 
The little Dwarf looked in wonder all round him , and was half afraid to go on . 
But he thought of the pretty Infanta , and took courage . 
He wanted to find her alone , and to tell her that he too loved her . 
Perhaps she was in the room beyond . 
He ran across the soft Moorish carpets , and opened the door . 
No ! She was not here either . 
The room was quite empty . 
The hangings were of gilt Cordovan leather , and a heavy gilt chandelier with branches for three hundred wax lights hung down from the black and white ceiling . 
receiving the homage of the Netherlands occupied the centre of the other wall . 
But the little Dwarf cared nothing for all this magnificence . 
He would not have given his rose for all the pearls on the canopy , nor one white petal of his rose for the throne itself . 
What he wanted was to see the Infanta before she went down to the pavilion , and to ask her to come away with him when he had finished his dance . 
There were grey catkins on the hazels , and the foxgloves drooped with the weight of their dappled bee haunted cells . 
The chestnut had its spires of white stars , and the hawthorn its pallid moons of beauty . 
Yes surely she would come if he could only find her ! She would come with him to the fair forest , and all day long he would dance for her delight . 
A smile lit up his eyes at the thought , and he passed into the next room . 
Of all the rooms this was the brightest and the most beautiful . 
Standing under the shadow of the doorway , at the extreme end of the room , he saw a little figure watching him . 
His heart trembled , a cry of joy broke from his lips , and he moved out into the sunlight . 
As he did so , the figure moved out also , and he saw it plainly . 
The Infanta ! It was a monster , the most grotesque monster he had ever beheld . 
Not properly shaped , as all other people were , but hunchbacked , and crooked limbed , with huge lolling head and mane of black hair . 
The little Dwarf frowned , and the monster frowned also . 
He laughed , and it laughed with him , and held its hands to its sides , just as he himself was doing . 
He made it a mocking bow , and it returned him a low reverence . 
He went towards it , and it came to meet him , copying each step that he made , and stopping when he stopped himself . 
He shouted with amusement , and ran forward , and reached out his hand , and the hand of the monster touched his , and it was as cold as ice . 
He grew afraid , and moved his hand across , and the monster's hand followed it quickly . 
He tried to press on , but something smooth and hard stopped him . 
The face of the monster was now close to his own , and seemed full of terror . 
He brushed his hair off his eyes . 
He struck at it , and it returned blow for blow . 
He loathed it , and it made hideous faces at him . 
He drew back , and it retreated . 
What is it ? He thought for a moment , and looked round at the rest of the room . 
It was strange , but everything seemed to have its double in this invisible wall of clear water . 
Yes , picture for picture was repeated , and couch for couch . 
Was it Echo ? He had called to her once in the valley , and she had answered him word for word . 
The monster had a rose of its own , petal for petal the same ! It kissed it with like kisses , and pressed it to its heart with horrible gestures . 
When the truth dawned upon him , he gave a wild cry of despair , and fell sobbing to the ground . 
So it was he who was misshapen and hunchbacked , foul to look at and grotesque . 
The sprawling monster did the same , and scattered the faint petals in the air . 
It grovelled on the ground , and , when he looked at it , it watched him with a face drawn with pain . 
He crept away , lest he should see it , and covered his eyes with his hands . 
He crawled , like some wounded thing , into the shadow , and lay there moaning . 
'His dancing was funny , said the Infanta 'but his acting is funnier still . 
Indeed he is almost as good as the puppets , only of course not quite so natural . 
And she fluttered her big fan , and applauded . 
But the little Dwarf never looked up , and his sobs grew fainter and fainter , and suddenly he gave a curious gasp , and clutched his side . 
And then he fell back again , and lay quite still . 
'That is capital , said the Infanta , after a pause 'but now you must dance for me . 
'Yes , cried all the children , 'you must get up and dance , for you are as clever as the Barbary apes , and much more ridiculous . 
But the little Dwarf made no answer . 
'My funny little dwarf is sulking , she cried , 'you must wake him up , and tell him to dance for me . 
They smiled at each other , and sauntered in , and Don Pedro stooped down , and slapped the Dwarf on the cheek with his embroidered glove . 
'You must dance , he said , 'PETIT MONSIRE . 
The Infanta of Spain and the Indies wishes to be amused . 
But the little Dwarf never moved . 
'A whipping master should be sent for , said Don Pedro wearily , and he went back to the terrace . 
But the Chamberlain looked grave , and he knelt beside the little dwarf , and put his hand upon his heart . 
It is a pity , for he is so ugly that he might have made the King smile . 
'But why will he not dance again ? asked the Infanta , laughing . 
'Because his heart is broken , answered the Chamberlain . 
And the Infanta frowned , and her dainty rose leaf lips curled in pretty disdain . 
'For the future let those who come to play with me have no hearts , she cried , and she ran out into the garden . 
THE FISHERMAN AND HIS SOUL TO H. S. H. ALICE , PRINCESS OF MONACO Every evening the young Fisherman went out upon the sea , and threw his nets into the water . 
Every evening he went out upon the sea , and one evening the net was so heavy that hardly could he draw it into the boat . 
He tugged at the thin ropes , and nearer and nearer came the circle of flat corks , and the net rose at last to the top of the water . 
But no fish at all was in it , nor any monster or thing of horror , but only a little Mermaid lying fast asleep . 
Her hair was as a wet fleece of gold , and each separate hair as a thread of fine gold in a cup of glass . 
Her body was as white ivory , and her tail was of silver and pearl . 
Silver and pearl was her tail , and the green weeds of the sea coiled round it and like sea shells were her ears , and her lips were like sea coral . 
The cold waves dashed over her cold breasts , and the salt glistened upon her eyelids . 
But he held her tightly to him , and would not suffer her to depart . 
'Wilt thou in very truth let me go , if I promise thee this ? cried the Mermaid . 
'In very truth I will let thee go , said the young Fisherman . 
So she made him the promise he desired , and sware it by the oath of the Sea folk . 
And he loosened his arms from about her , and she sank down into the water , trembling with a strange fear . 
Every evening the young Fisherman went out upon the sea , and called to the Mermaid , and she rose out of the water and sang to him . 
Round and round her swam the dolphins , and the wild gulls wheeled above her head . 
And she sang a marvellous song . 
And when his boat was well laden , the Mermaid would sink down into the sea , smiling at him . 
Yet would she never come near him that he might touch her . 
And each day the sound of her voice became sweeter to his ears . 
So sweet was her voice that he forgot his nets and his cunning , and had no care of his craft . 
Vermilion finned and with eyes of bossy gold , the tunnies went by in shoals , but he heeded them not . 
His spear lay by his side unused , and his baskets of plaited osier were empty . 
And one evening he called to her , and said 'Little Mermaid , little Mermaid , I love thee . 
Take me for thy bridegroom , for I love thee . 
But the Mermaid shook her head . 
'Thou hast a human soul , she answered . 
'If only thou wouldst send away thy soul , then could I love thee . 
And the young Fisherman said to himself , 'Of what use is my soul to me ? I cannot see it . 
I may not touch it . 
I do not know it . 
Surely I will send it away from me , and much gladness shall be mine . 
And a cry of joy broke from his lips , and standing up in the painted boat , he held out his arms to the Mermaid . 
And the little Mermaid laughed for pleasure and hid her face in her hands . 
'But how shall I send my soul from me ? cried the young Fisherman . 
'Tell me how I may do it , and lo ! it shall be done . 
'Alas ! I know not , said the little Mermaid 'the Sea folk have no souls . 
And she sank down into the deep , looking wistfully at him . 
The novice looked out through the wicket , and when he saw who it was , he drew back the latch and said to him , 'Enter . 
Tell me how I can send my soul away from me , for in truth I have no need of it . 
Of what value is my soul to me ? I cannot see it . 
I may not touch it . 
I do not know it . 
There is no thing more precious than a human soul , nor any earthly thing that can be weighed with it . 
It is worth all the gold that is in the world , and is more precious than the rubies of the kings . 
Therefore , my son , think not any more of this matter , for it is a sin that may not be forgiven . 
And as for the Sea folk , they are lost , and they who would traffic with them are lost also . 
They are as the beasts of the field that know not good from evil , and for them the Lord has not died . 
Let me be as they are , I beseech thee , for their days are as the days of flowers . 
They tap at the window , and laugh . 
They whisper into my ears the tale of their perilous joys . 
They tempt me with temptations , and when I would pray they make mouths at me . 
They are lost , I tell thee , they are lost . 
For them there is no heaven nor hell , and in neither shall they praise God's name . 
'Father , cried the young Fisherman , 'thou knowest not what thou sayest . 
Once in my net I snared the daughter of a King . 
She is fairer than the morning star , and whiter than the moon . 
For her body I would give my soul , and for her love I would surrender heaven . 
Tell me what I ask of thee , and let me go in peace . 
'Away ! Away ! cried the Priest 'thy leman is lost , and thou shalt be lost with her . 
And he gave him no blessing , but drove him from his door . 
And the young Fisherman went down into the market place , and he walked slowly , and with bowed head , as one who is in sorrow . 
'I pray thee buy it of me , for I am weary of it . 
Of what use is my soul to me ? I cannot see it . 
I may not touch it . 
I do not know it . 
But the merchants mocked at him , and said , 'Of what use is a man's soul to us ? It is not worth a clipped piece of silver . 
But talk not of the soul , for to us it is nought , nor has it any value for our service . 
And he passed out of the market place , and went down to the shore of the sea , and began to ponder on what he should do . 
By the itching of her palm the young Witch knew his coming , and she laughed and let down her red hair . 
With her red hair falling around her , she stood at the opening of the cave , and in her hand she had a spray of wild hemlock that was blossoming . 
'What d'ye lack ? What d'ye lack ? she cried , as he came panting up the steep , and bent down before her . 
'Fish for thy net , when the wind is foul ? I have a little reed pipe , and when I blow on it the mullet come sailing into the bay . 
But it has a price , pretty boy , it has a price . 
But I have a price , pretty boy , I have a price . 
Shouldst thou touch with this flower the hard lips of the Queen , she would follow thee all over the world . 
Out of the bed of the King she would rise , and over the whole world she would follow thee . 
And it has a price , pretty boy , it has a price . 
What d'ye lack ? What d'ye lack ? I can pound a toad in a mortar , and make broth of it , and stir the broth with a dead man's hand . 
Sprinkle it on thine enemy while he sleeps , and he will turn into a black viper , and his own mother will slay him . 
With a wheel I can draw the Moon from heaven , and in a crystal I can show thee Death . 
'My desire is but for a little thing , said the young Fisherman , 'yet hath the Priest been wroth with me , and driven me forth . 
It is but for a little thing , and the merchants have mocked at me , and denied me . 
Therefore am I come to thee , though men call thee evil , and whatever be thy price I shall pay it . 
'What wouldst thou ? asked the Witch , coming near to him . 
'I would send my soul away from me , answered the young Fisherman . 
The Witch grew pale , and shuddered , and hid her face in her blue mantle . 
'Pretty boy , pretty boy , she muttered , 'that is a terrible thing to do . 
He tossed his brown curls and laughed . 
'My soul is nought to me , he answered . 
I may not touch it . 
I do not know it . 
'What wilt thou give me if I tell thee ? asked the Witch , looking down at him with her beautiful eyes . 
'Five pieces of gold , he said , 'and my nets , and the wattled house where I live , and the painted boat in which I sail . 
Only tell me how to get rid of my soul , and I will give thee all that I possess . 
She laughed mockingly at him , and struck him with the spray of hemlock . 
'I can turn the autumn leaves into gold , she answered , 'and I can weave the pale moonbeams into silver if I will it . 
He whom I serve is richer than all the kings of this world , and has their dominions . 
'What then shall I give thee , he cried , 'if thy price be neither gold nor silver ? The Witch stroked his hair with her thin white hand . 
'Thou must dance with me , pretty boy , she murmured , and she smiled at him as she spoke . 
'Nought but that ? cried the young Fisherman in wonder and he rose to his feet . 
'Nought but that , she answered , and she smiled at him again . 
'Then at sunset in some secret place we shall dance together , he said , 'and after that we have danced thou shalt tell me the thing which I desire to know . 
'When the moon is full , when the moon is full , she muttered . 
Then she peered all round , and listened . 
A blue bird rose screaming from its nest and circled over the dunes , and three spotted birds rustled through the coarse grey grass and whistled to each other . 
There was no other sound save the sound of a wave fretting the smooth pebbles below . 
So she reached out her hand , and drew him near to her and put her dry lips close to his ear . 
'To night thou must come to the top of the mountain , she whispered . 
'It is a Sabbath , and He will be there . 
The young Fisherman started and looked at her , and she showed her white teeth and laughed . 
'Who is He of whom thou speakest ? he asked . 
'It matters not , she answered . 
'Go thou to night , and stand under the branches of the hornbeam , and wait for my coming . 
If a black dog run towards thee , strike it with a rod of willow , and it will go away . 
If an owl speak to thee , make it no answer . 
When the moon is full I shall be with thee , and we will dance together on the grass . 
'But wilt thou swear to me to tell me how I may send my soul from me ? he made question . 
She moved out into the sunlight , and through her red hair rippled the wind . 
'By the hoofs of the goat I swear it , she made answer . 
'Thou art the best of the witches , cried the young Fisherman , 'and I will surely dance with thee to night on the top of the mountain . 
I would indeed that thou hadst asked of me either gold or silver . 
But such as thy price is thou shalt have it , for it is but a little thing . 
And he doffed his cap to her , and bent his head low , and ran back to the town filled with a great joy . 
And after a time she clenched her hands in anger . 
'He should have been mine , she muttered , 'I am as fair as she is . 
And that evening , when the moon had risen , the young Fisherman climbed up to the top of the mountain , and stood under the branches of the hornbeam . 
Like a targe of polished metal the round sea lay at his feet , and the shadows of the fishing boats moved in the little bay . 
A great owl , with yellow sulphurous eyes , called to him by his name , but he made it no answer . 
A black dog ran towards him and snarled . 
He struck it with a rod of willow , and it went away whining . 
At midnight the witches came flying through the air like bats . 
Last of all came the young Witch , with her red hair streaming in the wind . 
She wore a dress of gold tissue embroidered with peacocks' eyes , and a little cap of green velvet was on her head . 
Round and round they whirled , and the young Witch jumped so high that he could see the scarlet heels of her shoes . 
Then right across the dancers came the sound of the galloping of a horse , but no horse was to be seen , and he felt afraid . 
'Faster , cried the Witch , and she threw her arms about his neck , and her breath was hot upon his face . 
It was a man dressed in a suit of black velvet , cut in the Spanish fashion . 
His face was strangely pale , but his lips were like a proud red flower . 
He seemed weary , and was leaning back toying in a listless manner with the pommel of his dagger . 
On the grass beside him lay a plumed hat , and a pair of riding gloves gauntleted with gilt lace , and sewn with seed pearls wrought into a curious device . 
A short cloak lined with sables hang from his shoulder , and his delicate white hands were gemmed with rings . 
Heavy eyelids drooped over his eyes . 
The young Fisherman watched him , as one snared in a spell . 
At last their eyes met , and wherever he danced it seemed to him that the eyes of the man were upon him . 
He heard the Witch laugh , and caught her by the waist , and whirled her madly round and round . 
Suddenly a dog bayed in the wood , and the dancers stopped , and going up two by two , knelt down , and kissed the man's hands . 
As they did so , a little smile touched his proud lips , as a bird's wing touches the water and makes it laugh . 
But there was disdain in it . 
He kept looking at the young Fisherman . 
But when he came close , and without knowing why he did it , he made on his breast the sign of the Cross , and called upon the holy name . 
No sooner had he done so than the witches screamed like hawks and flew away , and the pallid face that had been watching him twitched with a spasm of pain . 
The man went over to a little wood , and whistled . 
A jennet with silver trappings came running to meet him . 
As he leapt upon the saddle he turned round , and looked at the young Fisherman sadly . 
And the Witch with the red hair tried to fly away also , but the Fisherman caught her by her wrists , and held her fast . 
'Loose me , she cried , 'and let me go . 
For thou hast named what should not be named , and shown the sign that may not be looked at . 
'Nay , he answered , 'but I will not let thee go till thou hast told me the secret . 
'What secret ? said the Witch , wrestling with him like a wild cat , and biting her foam flecked lips . 
'Thou knowest , he made answer . 
Her grass green eyes grew dim with tears , and she said to the Fisherman , 'Ask me anything but that ! He laughed , and held her all the more tightly . 
But he thrust her back frowning , and said to her , 'If thou keepest not the promise that thou madest to me I will slay thee for a false witch . 
She grew grey as a blossom of the Judas tree , and shuddered . 
'Be it so , she muttered . 
'It is thy soul and not mine . 
Do with it as thou wilt . 
And she took from her girdle a little knife that had a handle of green viper's skin , and gave it to him . 
'What shall this serve me ? he asked of her , wondering . 
She was silent for a few moments , and a look of terror came over her face . 
'Is this true ? he murmured . 
'It is true , and I would that I had not told thee of it , she cried , and she clung to his knees weeping . 
He put her from him and left her in the rank grass , and going to the edge of the mountain he placed the knife in his belt and began to climb down . 
And his Soul that was within him called out to him and said , 'Lo ! I have dwelt with thee for all these years , and have been thy servant . 
Send me not away from thee now , for what evil have I done thee ? And the young Fisherman laughed . 
'Thou hast done me no evil , but I have no need of thee , he answered . 
'The world is wide , and there is Heaven also , and Hell , and that dim twilight house that lies between . 
Go wherever thou wilt , but trouble me not , for my love is calling to me . 
Before him lay his shadow , which was the body of his soul , and behind him hung the moon in the honey coloured air . 
And his Soul said to him , 'If indeed thou must drive me from thee , send me not forth without a heart . 
The world is cruel , give me thy heart to take with me . 
He tossed his head and smiled . 
'With what should I love my love if I gave thee my heart ? he cried . 
'Nay , but be merciful , said his Soul 'give me thy heart , for the world is very cruel , and I am afraid . 
'My heart is my love's , he answered , 'therefore tarry not , but get thee gone . 
'Should I not love also ? asked his Soul . 
He crept back , and thrust the knife into his belt , and a feeling of awe came over him . 
'Get thee gone , he murmured , 'and let me see thy face no more . 
'Nay , but we must meet again , said the Soul . 
Its voice was low and flute like , and its lips hardly moved while it spake . 
'How shall we meet ? cried the young Fisherman . 
'Thou wilt not follow me into the depths of the sea ? 'Once every year I will come to this place , and call to thee , said the Soul . 
'It may be that thou wilt have need of me . 
And the Soul stood on the lonely beach and watched them . 
And when they had sunk down into the sea , it went weeping away over the marshes . 
So he came nearer , and couched in the shallow water , and leaned his head upon his hand and listened . 
And the Soul said to him , 'When I left thee I turned my face to the East and journeyed . 
From the East cometh everything that is wise . 
Six days I journeyed , and on the morning of the seventh day I came to a hill that is in the country of the Tartars . 
I sat down under the shade of a tamarisk tree to shelter myself from the sun . 
The land was dry and burnt up with the heat . 
The people went to and fro over the plain like flies crawling upon a disk of polished copper . 
'When it was noon a cloud of red dust rose up from the flat rim of the land . 
When the Tartars saw it , they strung their painted bows , and having leapt upon their little horses they galloped to meet it . 
The women fled screaming to the waggons , and hid themselves behind the felt curtains . 
'At twilight the Tartars returned , but five of them were missing , and of those that came back not a few had been wounded . 
They harnessed their horses to the waggons and drove hastily away . 
Three jackals came out of a cave and peered after them . 
Then they sniffed up the air with their nostrils , and trotted off in the opposite direction . 
'When the moon rose I saw a camp fire burning on the plain , and went towards it . 
A company of merchants were seated round it on carpets . 
Their camels were picketed behind them , and the negroes who were their servants were pitching tents of tanned skin upon the sand , and making a high wall of the prickly pear . 
'As I came near them , the chief of the merchants rose up and drew his sword , and asked me my business . 
'I answered that I was a Prince in my own land , and that I had escaped from the Tartars , who had sought to make me their slave . 
The chief smiled , and showed me five heads fixed upon long reeds of bamboo . 
'Then he asked me who was the prophet of God , and I answered him Mohammed . 
'When he heard the name of the false prophet , he bowed and took me by the hand , and placed me by his side . 
A negro brought me some mare's milk in a wooden dish , and a piece of lamb's flesh roasted . 
'At daybreak we started on our journey . 
I rode on a red haired camel by the side of the chief , and a runner ran before us carrying a spear . 
The men of war were on either hand , and the mules followed with the merchandise . 
There were forty camels in the caravan , and the mules were twice forty in number . 
'We went from the country of the Tartars into the country of those who curse the Moon . 
We saw the Gryphons guarding their gold on the white rocks , and the scaled Dragons sleeping in their caves . 
As we passed over the mountains we held our breath lest the snows might fall on us , and each man tied a veil of gauze before his eyes . 
As we passed through the valleys the Pygmies shot arrows at us from the hollows of the trees , and at night time we heard the wild men beating on their drums . 
When we came to the Tower of Apes we set fruits before them , and they did not harm us . 
When we came to the Tower of Serpents we gave them warm milk in howls of brass , and they let us go by . 
Three times in our journey we came to the banks of the Oxus . 
We crossed it on rafts of wood with great bladders of blown hide . 
The river horses raged against us and sought to slay us . 
When the camels saw them they trembled . 
'The kings of each city levied tolls on us , but would not suffer us to enter their gates . 
They threw us bread over the walls , little maize cakes baked in honey and cakes of fine flour filled with dates . 
For every hundred baskets we gave them a bead of amber . 
'When the dwellers in the villages saw us coming , they poisoned the wells and fled to the hill summits . 
A third of our company died in battle , and a third died of want . 
The rest murmured against me , and said that I had brought them an evil fortune . 
I took a horned adder from beneath a stone and let it sting me . 
When they saw that I did not sicken they grew afraid . 
'In the fourth month we reached the city of Illel . 
It was night time when we came to the grove that is outside the walls , and the air was sultry , for the Moon was travelling in Scorpion . 
We took the ripe pomegranates from the trees , and brake them , and drank their sweet juices . 
Then we lay down on our carpets , and waited for the dawn . 
'And at dawn we rose and knocked at the gate of the city . 
It was wrought out of red bronze , and carved with sea dragons and dragons that have wings . 
The guards looked down from the battlements and asked us our business . 
The interpreter of the caravan answered that we had come from the island of Syria with much merchandise . 
They took hostages , and told us that they would open the gate to us at noon , and bade us tarry till then . 
We stood in the market place , and the negroes uncorded the bales of figured cloths and opened the carved chests of sycamore . 
From the roof of a house a company of women watched us . 
One of them wore a mask of gilded leather . 
'And on the first day the priests came and bartered with us , and on the second day came the nobles , and on the third day came the craftsmen and the slaves . 
And this is their custom with all merchants as long as they tarry in the city . 
'And we tarried for a moon , and when the moon was waning , I wearied and wandered away through the streets of the city and came to the garden of its god . 
The priests in their yellow robes moved silently through the green trees , and on a pavement of black marble stood the rose red house in which the god had his dwelling . 
Its doors were of powdered lacquer , and bulls and peacocks were wrought on them in raised and polished gold . 
The tilted roof was of sea green porcelain , and the jutting eaves were festooned with little bells . 
When the white doves flew past , they struck the bells with their wings and made them tinkle . 
'In front of the temple was a pool of clear water paved with veined onyx . 
I lay down beside it , and with my pale fingers I touched the broad leaves . 
One of the priests came towards me and stood behind me . 
He had sandals on his feet , one of soft serpent skin and the other of birds' plumage . 
On his head was a mitre of black felt decorated with silver crescents . 
Seven yellows were woven into his robe , and his frizzed hair was stained with antimony . 
'After a little while he spake to me , and asked me my desire . 
'I told him that my desire was to see the god . 
The god is hunting , said the priest , looking strangely at me with his small slanting eyes . 
Tell me in what forest , and I will ride with him , I answered . 
'He combed out the soft fringes of his tunic with his long pointed nails . 
The god is asleep , he murmured . 
Tell me on what couch , and I will watch by him , I answered . 
The god is at the feast , he cried . 
If the wine be sweet I will drink it with him , and if it be bitter I will drink it with him also , was my answer . 
'He bowed his head in wonder , and , taking me by the hand , he raised me up , and led me into the temple . 
'And in the first chamber I saw an idol seated on a throne of jasper bordered with great orient pearls . 
It was carved out of ebony , and in stature was of the stature of a man . 
On its forehead was a ruby , and thick oil dripped from its hair on to its thighs . 
Its feet were red with the blood of a newly slain kid , and its loins girt with a copper belt that was studded with seven beryls . 
'And I said to the priest , Is this the god ? And he answered me , This is the god . 
Show me the god , I cried , or I will surely slay thee . 
And I touched his hand , and it became withered . 
'And the priest besought me , saying , Let my lord heal his servant , and I will show him the god . 
It was carved out of ivory , and in stature was twice the stature of a man . 
On its forehead was a chrysolite , and its breasts were smeared with myrrh and cinnamon . 
In one hand it held a crooked sceptre of jade , and in the other a round crystal . 
It ware buskins of brass , and its thick neck was circled with a circle of selenites . 
'And I said to the priest , Is this the god ? 'And he answered me , This is the god . 
Show me the god , I cried , or I will surely slay thee . 
And I touched his eyes , and they became blind . 
'And the priest besought me , saying , Let my lord heal his servant , and I will show him the god . 
And it reflecteth all things that are in heaven and on earth , save only the face of him who looketh into it . 
This it reflecteth not , so that he who looketh into it may be wise . 
Many other mirrors are there , but they are mirrors of Opinion . 
This only is the Mirror of Wisdom . 
And they who possess this mirror know everything , nor is there anything hidden from them . 
And they who possess it not have not Wisdom . 
Therefore is it the god , and we worship it . 
And I looked into the mirror , and it was even as he had said to me . 
Do but suffer me to enter into thee again and be thy servant , and thou shalt be wiser than all the wise men , and Wisdom shall be thine . 
Suffer me to enter into thee , and none will be as wise as thou . 
But the young Fisherman laughed . 
'Love is better than Wisdom , he cried , 'and the little Mermaid loves me . 
'Nay , but there is nothing better than Wisdom , said the Soul . 
'Love is better , answered the young Fisherman , and he plunged into the deep , and the Soul went weeping away over the marshes . 
So he came nearer , and couched in the shallow water , and leaned his head upon his hand and listened . 
And the Soul said to him , 'When I left thee , I turned my face to the South and journeyed . 
From the South cometh everything that is precious . 
'There are nine gates to this city , and in front of each gate stands a bronze horse that neighs when the Bedouins come down from the mountains . 
The walls are cased with copper , and the watch towers on the walls are roofed with brass . 
In every tower stands an archer with a bow in his hand . 
At sunrise he strikes with an arrow on a gong , and at sunset he blows through a horn of horn . 
'When I sought to enter , the guards stopped me and asked of me who I was . 
They were filled with wonder , and entreated me to pass in . 
'Inside it is even as a bazaar . 
Surely thou shouldst have been with me . 
Across the narrow streets the gay lanterns of paper flutter like large butterflies . 
When the wind blows over the roofs they rise and fall as painted bubbles do . 
In front of their booths sit the merchants on silken carpets . 
They have straight black beards , and their turbans are covered with golden sequins , and long strings of amber and carved peach stones glide through their cool fingers . 
When one stops to speak to them , they throw pinches of frankincense upon a charcoal brazier and make the air sweet . 
I saw a Syrian who held in his hands a thin rod like a reed . 
Grey threads of smoke came from it , and its odour as it burned was as the odour of the pink almond in spring . 
From the tea houses comes the sound of the guitar , and the opium smokers with their white smiling faces look out at the passers by . 
'Of a truth thou shouldst have been with me . 
The wine sellers elbow their way through the crowd with great black skins on their shoulders . 
Most of them sell the wine of Schiraz , which is as sweet as honey . 
They serve it in little metal cups and strew rose leaves upon it . 
Once I saw an elephant go by . 
Its trunk was painted with vermilion and turmeric , and over its ears it had a net of crimson silk cord . 
It stopped opposite one of the booths and began eating the oranges , and the man only laughed . 
Thou canst not think how strange a people they are . 
'One evening I met some negroes carrying a heavy palanquin through the bazaar . 
It was made of gilded bamboo , and the poles were of vermilion lacquer studded with brass peacocks . 
Across the windows hung thin curtains of muslin embroidered with beetles' wings and with tiny seed pearls , and as it passed by a pale faced Circassian looked out and smiled at me . 
I followed behind , and the negroes hurried their steps and scowled . 
But I did not care . 
I felt a great curiosity come over me . 
'At last they stopped at a square white house . 
There were no windows to it , only a little door like the door of a tomb . 
They set down the palanquin and knocked three times with a copper hammer . 
As she went in , she turned round and smiled at me again . 
I had never seen any one so pale . 
'When the moon rose I returned to the same place and sought for the house , but it was no longer there . 
When I saw that , I knew who the woman was , and wherefore she had smiled at me . 
'Certainly thou shouldst have been with me . 
On the feast of the New Moon the young Emperor came forth from his palace and went into the mosque to pray . 
His hair and beard were dyed with rose leaves , and his cheeks were powdered with a fine gold dust . 
The palms of his feet and hands were yellow with saffron . 
'At sunrise he went forth from his palace in a robe of silver , and at sunset he returned to it again in a robe of gold . 
The people flung themselves on the ground and hid their faces , but I would not do so . 
I stood by the stall of a seller of dates and waited . 
When the Emperor saw me , he raised his painted eyebrows and stopped . 
I stood quite still , and made him no obeisance . 
The people marvelled at my boldness , and counselled me to flee from the city . 
I paid no heed to them , but went and sat with the sellers of strange gods , who by reason of their craft are abominated . 
When I told them what I had done , each of them gave me a god and prayed me to leave them . 
'That night , as I lay on a cushion in the tea house that is in the Street of Pomegranates , the guards of the Emperor entered and led me to the palace . 
As I went in they closed each door behind me , and put a chain across it . 
Inside was a great court with an arcade running all round . 
The walls were of white alabaster , set here and there with blue and green tiles . 
The pillars were of green marble , and the pavement of a kind of peach blossom marble . 
I had never seen anything like it before . 
'As I passed across the court two veiled women looked down from a balcony and cursed me . 
The guards hastened on , and the butts of the lances rang upon the polished floor . 
They opened a gate of wrought ivory , and I found myself in a watered garden of seven terraces . 
It was planted with tulip cups and moonflowers , and silver studded aloes . 
Like a slim reed of crystal a fountain hung in the dusky air . 
The cypress trees were like burnt out torches . 
From one of them a nightingale was singing . 
'At the end of the garden stood a little pavilion . 
As we approached it two eunuchs came out to meet us . 
Their fat bodies swayed as they walked , and they glanced curiously at me with their yellow lidded eyes . 
One of them drew aside the captain of the guard , and in a low voice whispered to him . 
The other kept munching scented pastilles , which he took with an affected gesture out of an oval box of lilac enamel . 
'After a few moments the captain of the guard dismissed the soldiers . 
They went back to the palace , the eunuchs following slowly behind and plucking the sweet mulberries from the trees as they passed . 
Once the elder of the two turned round , and smiled at me with an evil smile . 
'Then the captain of the guard motioned me towards the entrance of the pavilion . 
I walked on without trembling , and drawing the heavy curtain aside I entered in . 
'The young Emperor was stretched on a couch of dyed lion skins , and a gerfalcon perched upon his wrist . 
Behind him stood a brass turbaned Nubian , naked down to the waist , and with heavy earrings in his split ears . 
On a table by the side of the couch lay a mighty scimitar of steel . 
'He pointed with his finger at the scimitar , and the Nubian seized it , and rushing forward struck at me with great violence . 
The blade whizzed through me , and did me no hurt . 
The man fell sprawling on the floor , and when he rose up his teeth chattered with terror and he hid himself behind the couch . 
'The Emperor leapt to his feet , and taking a lance from a stand of arms , he threw it at me . 
I caught it in its flight , and brake the shaft into two pieces . 
He shot at me with an arrow , but I held up my hands and it stopped in mid air . 
Then he drew a dagger from a belt of white leather , and stabbed the Nubian in the throat lest the slave should tell of his dishonour . 
The man writhed like a trampled snake , and a red foam bubbled from his lips . 
'And I answered him , I will go for half of thy treasure . 
Give me half of thy treasure , and I will go away . 
'He took me by the hand , and led me out into the garden . 
When the captain of the guard saw me , he wondered . 
When the eunuchs saw me , their knees shook and they fell upon the ground in fear . 
'There is a chamber in the palace that has eight walls of red porphyry , and a brass sealed ceiling hung with lamps . 
The Emperor touched one of the walls and it opened , and we passed down a corridor that was lit with many torches . 
In niches upon each side stood great wine jars filled to the brim with silver pieces . 
'Thou couldst not believe how marvellous a place it was . 
There were huge tortoise shells full of pearls , and hollowed moonstones of great size piled up with red rubies . 
The gold was stored in coffers of elephant hide , and the gold dust in leather bottles . 
There were opals and sapphires , the former in cups of crystal , and the latter in cups of jade . 
Round green emeralds were ranged in order upon thin plates of ivory , and in one corner were silk bags filled , some with turquoise stones , and others with beryls . 
The ivory horns were heaped with purple amethysts , and the horns of brass with chalcedonies and sards . 
The pillars , which were of cedar , were hung with strings of yellow lynx stones . 
In the flat oval shields there were carbuncles , both wine coloured and coloured like grass . 
And yet I have told thee but a tithe of what was there . 
And I will give thee camels and camel drivers , and they shall do thy bidding and take thy share of the treasure to whatever part of the world thou desirest to go . 
'But I answered him , The gold that is here is thine , and the silver also is thine , and thine are the precious jewels and the things of price . 
As for me , I have no need of these . 
Nor shall I take aught from thee but that little ring that thou wearest on the finger of thy hand . 
It is but a ring of lead , he cried , nor has it any value . 
Therefore take thy half of the treasure and go from my city . 
Nay , I answered , but I will take nought but that leaden ring , for I know what is written within it , and for what purpose . 
'And the Emperor trembled , and besought me and said , Take all the treasure and go from my city . 
The half that is mine shall be thine also . 
It is but a day's journey from this place , and it waits for thy coming . 
He who has this Ring is richer than all the kings of the world . 
Come therefore and take it , and the world's riches shall be thine . 
But the young Fisherman laughed . 
'Love is better than Riches , he cried , 'and the little Mermaid loves me . 
'Nay , but there is nothing better than Riches , said the Soul . 
'Love is better , answered the young Fisherman , and he plunged into the deep , and the Soul went weeping away over the marshes . 
So he came nearer , and couched in the shallow water , and leaned his head upon his hand and listened . 
And the Soul said to him , 'In a city that I know of there is an inn that standeth by a river . 
I sat there with sailors who drank of two different coloured wines , and ate bread made of barley , and little salt fish served in bay leaves with vinegar . 
And as we sat and made merry , there entered to us an old man bearing a leathern carpet and a lute that had two horns of amber . 
Her face was veiled with a veil of gauze , but her feet were naked . 
Naked were her feet , and they moved over the carpet like little white pigeons . 
Never have I seen anything so marvellous and the city in which she dances is but a day's journey from this place . 
Now when the young Fisherman heard the words of his Soul , he remembered that the little Mermaid had no feet and could not dance . 
And when he had reached the dry shore he laughed again , and held out his arms to his Soul . 
And his Soul said to him , 'Let us not tarry , but get hence at once , for the Sea gods are jealous , and have monsters that do their bidding . 
Nevertheless let us enter in . 
So they entered in and passed through the streets , and as they passed through the Street of the Jewellers the young Fisherman saw a fair silver cup set forth in a booth . 
And his Soul said to him , 'Take that silver cup and hide it . 
So he took the cup and hid it in the fold of his tunic , and they went hurriedly out of the city . 
Nevertheless let us enter in . 
And his Soul said to him , 'Smite that child . 
So he smote the child till it wept , and when he had done this they went hurriedly out of the city . 
So they entered in and passed through the streets , but nowhere could the young Fisherman find the river or the inn that stood by its side . 
But his Soul answered , 'Nay , but let us tarry , for the night is dark and there will be robbers on the way . 
'Are we not all kinsmen ? said the merchant . 
'And did not one God make us ? Therefore come with me , for I have a guest chamber . 
So the young Fisherman rose up and followed the merchant to his house . 
And after that he had finished , the merchant led him to the guest chamber , and bade him sleep and be at rest . 
And the young Fisherman gave him thanks , and kissed the ring that was on his hand , and flung himself down on the carpets of dyed goat's hair . 
And when he had covered himself with a covering of black lamb's wool he fell asleep . 
But his Soul answered him , 'Be at peace , be at peace . 
'Nay , cried the young Fisherman , 'I may not be at peace , for all that thou hast made me to do I hate . 
Thee also I hate , and I bid thee tell me wherefore thou hast wrought with me in this wise . 
And his Soul answered him , 'When thou didst send me forth into the world thou gavest me no heart , so I learned to do all these things and love them . 
'What sayest thou ? murmured the young Fisherman . 
'Thou knowest , answered his Soul , 'thou knowest it well . 
Hast thou forgotten that thou gavest me no heart ? I trow not . 
And so trouble not thyself nor me , but be at peace , for there is no pain that thou shalt not give away , nor any pleasure that thou shalt not receive . 
And his Soul answered him , 'Thou hast not forgotten that when thou didst send me forth into the world thou gavest me no heart . 
Come , let us go to another city , and make merry , for we have nine purses of gold . 
But the young Fisherman took the nine purses of gold , and flung them down , and trampled on them . 
And the young Fisherman grew pale and clenched his hands and cried , 'She was a false Witch in that she told me not that . 
'Nay , answered his Soul , 'but she was true to Him she worships , and whose servant she will be ever . 
And his Soul tempted him and said , 'Who is thy love , that thou shouldst return to her ? The world has many fairer than she is . 
There are the dancing girls of Samaris who dance in the manner of all kinds of birds and beasts . 
Their feet are painted with henna , and in their hands they have little copper bells . 
They laugh while they dance , and their laughter is as clear as the laughter of water . 
Come with me and I will show them to thee . 
There is a little city hard by in which there is a garden of tulip trees . 
And there dwell in this comely garden white peacocks and peacocks that have blue breasts . 
Their tails when they spread them to the sun are like disks of ivory and like gilt disks . 
And she who feeds them dances for their pleasure , and sometimes she dances on her hands and at other times she dances with her feet . 
Her eyes are coloured with stibium , and her nostrils are shaped like the wings of a swallow . 
From a hook in one of her nostrils hangs a flower that is carved out of a pearl . 
She laughs while she dances , and the silver rings that are about her ankles tinkle like bells of silver . 
And so trouble not thyself any more , but come with me to this city . 
But she came not to his call , though he called to her all day long and besought her . 
And his Soul mocked him and said , 'Surely thou hast but little joy out of thy love . 
Thou art as one who in time of death pours water into a broken vessel . 
Thou givest away what thou hast , and nought is given to thee in return . 
It were better for thee to come with me , for I know where the Valley of Pleasure lies , and what things are wrought there . 
But the young Fisherman answered not his Soul , but in a cleft of the rock he built himself a house of wattles , and abode there for the space of a year . 
And every morning he called to the Mermaid , and every noon he called to her again , and at night time he spake her name . 
And ever did his Soul tempt him with evil , and whisper of terrible things . 
Yet did it not prevail against him , so great was the power of his love . 
And after the year was over , the Soul thought within himself , 'I have tempted my master with evil , and his love is stronger than I am . 
I will tempt him now with good , and it may be that he will come with me . 
So he spake to the young Fisherman and said , 'I have told thee of the joy of the world , and thou hast turned a deaf ear to me . 
Suffer me now to tell thee of the world's pain , and it may be that thou wilt hearken . 
For of a truth pain is the Lord of this world , nor is there any one who escapes from its net . 
There be some who lack raiment , and others who lack bread . 
There be widows who sit in purple , and widows who sit in rags . 
To and fro over the fens go the lepers , and they are cruel to each other . 
The beggars go up and down on the highways , and their wallets are empty . 
Through the streets of the cities walks Famine , and the Plague sits at their gates . 
Come , let us go forth and mend these things , and make them not to be . 
And every morning he called to the Mermaid , and every noon he called to her again , and at night time he spake her name . 
Wherefore will I tempt thee no longer , but I pray thee to suffer me to enter thy heart , that I may be one with thee even as before . 
'Surely thou mayest enter , said the young Fisherman , 'for in the days when with no heart thou didst go through the world thou must have much suffered . 
'Alas ! cried his Soul , 'I can find no place of entrance , so compassed about with love is this heart of thine . 
'Yet I would that I could help thee , said the young Fisherman . 
And as he spake there came a great cry of mourning from the sea , even the cry that men hear when one of the Sea folk is dead . 
And the young Fisherman leapt up , and left his wattled house , and ran down to the shore . 
And the black waves came hurrying to the shore , bearing with them a burden that was whiter than silver . 
White as the surf it was , and like a flower it tossed on the waves . 
Dead at his feet it was lying . 
Weeping as one smitten with pain he flung himself down beside it , and he kissed the cold red of the mouth , and toyed with the wet amber of the hair . 
He flung himself down beside it on the sand , weeping as one trembling with joy , and in his brown arms he held it to his breast . 
Cold were the lips , yet he kissed them . 
Salt was the honey of the hair , yet he tasted it with a bitter joy . 
He kissed the closed eyelids , and the wild spray that lay upon their cups was less salt than his tears . 
And to the dead thing he made confession . 
Into the shells of its ears he poured the harsh wine of his tale . 
He put the little hands round his neck , and with his fingers he touched the thin reed of the throat . 
Bitter , bitter was his joy , and full of strange gladness was his pain . 
The black sea came nearer , and the white foam moaned like a leper . 
With white claws of foam the sea grabbled at the shore . 
From the palace of the Sea King came the cry of mourning again , and far out upon the sea the great Tritons blew hoarsely upon their horns . 
'Flee away , said his Soul , 'for ever doth the sea come nigher , and if thou tarriest it will slay thee . 
Flee away , for I am afraid , seeing that thy heart is closed against me by reason of the greatness of thy love . 
Flee away to a place of safety . 
The fires cannot destroy it , nor can the waters quench it . 
I called on thee at dawn , and thou didst not come to my call . 
The moon heard thy name , yet hadst thou no heed of me . 
For evilly had I left thee , and to my own hurt had I wandered away . 
Yet ever did thy love abide with me , and ever was it strong , nor did aught prevail against it , though I have looked upon evil and looked upon good . 
And now that thou art dead , surely I will die with thee also . 
And his Soul besought him to depart , but he would not , so great was his love . 
And as through the fulness of his love his heart did break , the Soul found an entrance and entered in , and was one with him even as before . 
And the sea covered the young Fisherman with its waves . 
And in the morning the Priest went forth to bless the sea , for it had been troubled . 
And with him went the monks and the musicians , and the candle bearers , and the swingers of censers , and a great company . 
And when the Priest reached the shore he saw the young Fisherman lying drowned in the surf , and clasped in his arms was the body of the little Mermaid . 
And he drew back frowning , and having made the sign of the cross , he cried aloud and said , 'I will not bless the sea nor anything that is in it . 
Accursed be the Sea folk , and accursed be all they who traffic with them . 
For accursed were they in their lives , and accursed shall they be in their deaths also . 
Strange were they to look at , and of curious beauty , and their beauty troubled him , and their odour was sweet in his nostrils . 
And he felt glad , and understood not why he was glad . 
And why he so spake , he knew not . 
And when he had finished his word the people wept , and the Priest went back to the sacristy , and his eyes were full of tears . 
And the deacons came in and began to unrobe him , and took from him the alb and the girdle , the maniple and the stole . 
And he stood as one in a dream . 
And the Priest trembled , and returned to his own house and prayed . 
The Fauns also he blessed , and the little things that dance in the woodland , and the bright eyed things that peer through the leaves . 
All the things in God's world he blessed , and the people were filled with joy and wonder . 
Yet never again in the corner of the Fullers' Field grew flowers of any kind , but the field remained barren even as before . 
Nor came the Sea folk into the bay as they had been wont to do , for they went to another part of the sea . 
THE STAR CHILD TO MISS MARGOT TENNANT MRS . 
ASQUITH Once upon a time two poor Woodcutters were making their way home through a great pine forest . 
It was winter , and a night of bitter cold . 
So cold was it that even the animals and the birds did not know what to make of it . 
'Ugh ! snarled the Wolf , as he limped through the brushwood with his tail between his legs , 'this is perfectly monstrous weather . 
'The Earth is going to be married , and this is her bridal dress , whispered the Turtle doves to each other . 
Their little pink feet were quite frost bitten , but they felt that it was their duty to take a romantic view of the situation . 
'Nonsense ! growled the Wolf . 
'I tell you that it is all the fault of the Government , and if you don't believe me I shall eat you . 
The Wolf had a thoroughly practical mind , and was never at a loss for a good argument . 
'Well , for my own part , said the Woodpecker , who was a born philosopher , 'I don't care an atomic theory for explanations . 
If a thing is so , it is so , and at present it is terribly cold . 
Terribly cold it certainly was . 
The only people who seemed to enjoy it were the great horned Owls . 
So overjoyed were they at their deliverance that they laughed aloud , and the Earth seemed to them like a flower of silver , and the Moon like a flower of gold . 
'Truly , answered his companion , 'much is given to some , and little is given to others . 
Injustice has parcelled out the world , nor is there equal division of aught save of sorrow . 
But as they were bewailing their misery to each other this strange thing happened . 
There fell from heaven a very bright and beautiful star . 
'Why ! there is a crook of gold for whoever finds it , they cried , and they set to and ran , so eager were they for the gold . 
But , alas ! no gold was in it , nor silver , nor , indeed , treasure of any kind , but only a little child who was asleep . 
And when they came to the village , his comrade said to him , 'Thou hast the child , therefore give me the cloak , for it is meet that we should share . 
'What is it ? she cried . 
'Show it to me , for the house is bare , and we have need of many things . 
And he drew the cloak back , and showed her the sleeping child . 
'Nay , but it is a Star Child , he answered and he told her the strange manner of the finding of it . 
'Do not the sparrows die of hunger in the winter ? she asked . 
'And is it not winter now ? And the man answered nothing , but stirred not from the threshold . 
'Into a house where a heart is hard cometh there not always a bitter wind ? he asked . 
And the woman answered him nothing , but crept closer to the fire . 
And after a time she turned round and looked at him , and her eyes were full of tears . 
So the Star Child was brought up with the children of the Woodcutter , and sat at the same board with them , and was their playmate . 
Yet did his beauty work him evil . 
For he grew proud , and cruel , and selfish . 
The wild birds that roam through the forest have their freedom . 
Snare them not for thy pleasure . 
God made the blind worm and the mole , and each has its place . 
Who art thou to bring pain into God's world ? Even the cattle of the field praise Him . 
But the Star Child heeded not their words , but would frown and flout , and go back to his companions , and lead them . 
And his companions followed him , for he was fair , and fleet of foot , and could dance , and pipe , and make music . 
And wherever the Star Child led them they followed , and whatever the Star Child bade them do , that did they . 
And when he pierced with a sharp reed the dim eyes of the mole , they laughed , and when he cast stones at the leper they laughed also . 
And in all things he ruled them , and they became hard of heart even as he was . 
Now there passed one day through the village a poor beggar woman . 
Her garments were torn and ragged , and her feet were bleeding from the rough road on which she had travelled , and she was in very evil plight . 
And being weary she sat her down under a chestnut tree to rest . 
But when the Star Child saw her , he said to his companions , 'See ! There sitteth a foul beggar woman under that fair and green leaved tree . 
Come , let us drive her hence , for she is ugly and ill favoured . 
So he came near and threw stones at her , and mocked her , and she looked at him with terror in her eyes , nor did she move her gaze from him . 
'Thou speakest truly , answered the Wood cutter , 'yet did I show thee pity when I found thee in the forest . 
And when the woman heard these words she gave a loud cry , and fell into a swoon . 
'And what signs didst thou find with him ? she cried . 
And he took the cloak and the amber chain from the chest where they lay , and showed them to her . 
And when she saw them she wept for joy , and said , 'He is my little son whom I lost in the forest . 
I pray thee send for him quickly , for in search of him have I wandered over the whole world . 
So he ran in , filled with wonder and great gladness . 
But when he saw her who was waiting there , he laughed scornfully and said , 'Why , where is my mother ? For I see none here but this vile beggar woman . 
And the woman answered him , 'I am thy mother . 
'Thou art mad to say so , cried the Star Child angrily . 
'I am no son of thine , for thou art a beggar , and ugly , and in rags . 
Therefore get thee hence , and let me see thy foul face no more . 
Therefore I pray thee come with me , for over the whole world have I wandered in search of thee . 
Come with me , my son , for I have need of thy love . 
And at last he spoke to her , and his voice was hard and bitter . 
Therefore get thee hence , and let me see thee no more . 
'Alas ! my son , she cried , 'wilt thou not kiss me before I go ? For I have suffered much to find thee . 
'Nay , said the Star Child , 'but thou art too foul to look at , and rather would I kiss the adder or the toad than thee . 
But when they beheld him coming , they mocked him and said , 'Why , thou art as foul as the toad , and as loathsome as the adder . 
Get thee hence , for we will not suffer thee to play with us , and they drave him out of the garden . 
And he flung himself down on the grass and wept , and said to himself , 'Surely this has come upon me by reason of my sin . 
For I have denied my mother , and driven her away , and been proud , and cruel to her . 
Wherefore I will go and seek her through the whole world , nor will I rest till I have found her . 
And he said to her , 'Nay , but I have been cruel to my mother , and as a punishment has this evil been sent to me . 
Wherefore I must go hence , and wander through the world till I find her , and she give me her forgiveness . 
So he ran away into the forest and called out to his mother to come to him , but there was no answer . 
And in the morning he rose up , and plucked some bitter berries from the trees and ate them , and took his way through the great wood , weeping sorely . 
And of everything that he met he made inquiry if perchance they had seen his mother . 
He said to the Mole , 'Thou canst go beneath the earth . 
Tell me , is my mother there ? And the Mole answered , 'Thou hast blinded mine eyes . 
How should I know ? He said to the Linnet , 'Thou canst fly over the tops of the tall trees , and canst see the whole world . 
Tell me , canst thou see my mother ? And the Linnet answered , 'Thou hast clipt my wings for thy pleasure . 
And on the third day he came to the other side of the forest and went down into the plain . 
And one evening he came to the gate of a strong walled city that stood by a river , and , weary and footsore though he was , he made to enter in . 
Thy mother dwells not in this city . 
But they would not , and pricked him with their spears . 
And they said to him , 'It is a beggar and the child of a beggar , and we have driven him away . 
'Nay , he cried , laughing , 'but we will sell the foul thing for a slave , and his price shall be the price of a bowl of sweet wine . 
And after that they had gone through many streets they came to a little door that was set in a wall that was covered with a pomegranate tree . 
And the old man took then from his turban a scarf of figured silk , and bound with it the eyes of the Star Child , and drave him in front of him . 
And when the scarf was taken off his eyes , the Star Child found himself in a dungeon , that was lit by a lantern of horn . 
One is of white gold , and another is of yellow gold , and the gold of the third one is red . 
To day thou shalt bring me the piece of white gold , and if thou bringest it not back , I will beat thee with a hundred stripes . 
Get thee away quickly , and at sunset I will be waiting for thee at the door of the garden . 
And having opened the little door with his ring he set him in the street . 
And the Star Child went out of the gate of the city , and came to the wood of which the Magician had spoken to him . 
Now this wood was very fair to look at from without , and seemed full of singing birds and of sweet scented flowers , and the Star Child entered it gladly . 
Nor could he anywhere find the piece of white gold of which the Magician had spoken , though he sought for it from morn to noon , and from noon to sunset . 
And at sunset he set his face towards home , weeping bitterly , for he knew what fate was in store for him . 
But when he had reached the outskirts of the wood , he heard from a thicket a cry as of some one in pain . 
And forgetting his own sorrow he ran back to the place , and saw there a little Hare caught in a trap that some hunter had set for it . 
And the Star Child had pity on it , and released it , and said to it , 'I am myself but a slave , yet may I give thee thy freedom . 
'Come thou with me , said the Hare , 'and I will lead thee to it , for I know where it is hidden , and for what purpose . 
So the Star Child went with the Hare , and lo ! in the cleft of a great oak tree he saw the piece of white gold that he was seeking . 
Now at the gate of the city there was seated one who was a leper . 
Over his face hung a cowl of grey linen , and through the eyelets his eyes gleamed like red coals . 
For they have thrust me out of the city , and there is no one who has pity on me . 
But the leper entreated him , and prayed of him , till the Star Child had pity , and gave him the piece of white gold . 
So the Star Child went to the wood , and all day long he searched for the piece of yellow gold , but nowhere could he find it . 
'Follow me , cried the Hare , and it ran through the wood till it came to a pool of water . 
And at the bottom of the pool the piece of yellow gold was lying . 
'How shall I thank thee ? said the Star Child , 'for lo ! this is the second time that you have succoured me . 
'Nay , but thou hadst pity on me first , said the Hare , and it ran away swiftly . 
And the Star Child took the piece of yellow gold , and put it in his wallet , and hurried to the city . 
But the leper saw him coming , and ran to meet him , and knelt down and cried , 'Give me a piece of money or I shall die of hunger . 
But the leper entreated him sore , so that the Star Child had pity on him , and gave him the piece of yellow gold . 
So the Magician fell upon him , and beat him , and loaded him with chains , and cast him again into the dungeon . 
So the Star Child went to the wood , and all day long he searched for the piece of red gold , but nowhere could he find it . 
And at evening he sat him down and wept , and as he was weeping there came to him the little Hare . 
And the Hare said to him , 'The piece of red gold that thou seekest is in the cavern that is behind thee . 
Therefore weep no more but be glad . 
'How shall I reward thee ? cried the Star Child , 'for lo ! this is the third time thou hast succoured me . 
'Nay , but thou hadst pity on me first , said the Hare , and it ran away swiftly . 
And the Star Child entered the cavern , and in its farthest corner he found the piece of red gold . 
So he put it in his wallet , and hurried to the city . 
Yet was his heart heavy , for he knew what evil fate awaited him . 
And the Star Child answered them and said , 'I am no king's son , but the child of a poor beggar woman . 
And the priests and the high officers knelt down and said to him , 'It was prophesied of old that on this day should come he who was to rule over us . 
Therefore , let our lord take this crown and this sceptre , and be in his justice and mercy our King over us . 
Therefore , let me go , for I must wander again over the world , and may not tarry here , though ye bring me the crown and the sceptre . 
And a cry of joy broke from his lips , and he ran over , and kneeling down he kissed the wounds on his mother's feet , and wet them with his tears . 
He bowed his head in the dust , and sobbing , as one whose heart might break , he said to her 'Mother , I denied thee in the hour of my pride . 
Accept me in the hour of my humility . 
Mother , I gave thee hatred . 
Do thou give me love . 
Mother , I rejected thee . 
But the beggar woman answered him not a word . 
And he reached out his hands , and clasped the white feet of the leper , and said to him 'Thrice did I give thee of my mercy . 
Bid my mother speak to me once . 
But the leper answered him not a word . 
And he sobbed again and said 'Mother , my suffering is greater than I can bear . 
Give me thy forgiveness , and let me go back to the forest . 
And he rose up from his feet , and looked at them , and lo ! they were a King and a Queen . 
And the Queen said to him , 'This is thy father whom thou hast succoured . 
And the King said , 'This is thy mother whose feet thou hast washed with thy tears . 
Yet ruled he not long , so great had been his suffering , and so bitter the fire of his testing , for after the space of three years he died . 
And he who came after him ruled evilly . 
