THE GHOST OF CAPTAIN BRAND III . 
TOM CHIST AND THE TREASURE BOX V. JACK BALLISTER'S FORTUNES VI . 
He was one of the founders of present day American illustration , and his pupils and grand pupils pervade that field to day . 
While he bore no such important part in the world of letters , his stories are modern in treatment , and yet widely read . 
In all these fields Pyle's work may be equaled , surpassed , save in one . 
that it had to be measured in quart bowls , being too considerable to be counted . 
But it is not altogether courage and daring that endear him to our hearts . 
For there was a deal of piratical smack in the anti Spanish ventures of Elizabethan days . 
Many of the adventurers of the Sir Francis Drake school , for instance actually overstepped again and again the bounds of international law , entering into the realms of de facto piracy . 
Some of the treasures captured in such ventures were immense , stupendous , unbelievable . 
For an example , one can hardly credit the truth of the purchase gained by Drake in the famous capture of the plate ship in the South Sea . 
, insomuch that they were forced to heave much of it overboard , because his ship could not carry it all . 
In this left handed war against Catholic Spain many of the adventurers were , no doubt , stirred and incited by a grim , Calvinistic , puritanical zeal for Protestantism . 
Of all ghastly and terrible things old time religious war was the most ghastly and terrible . 
One can hardly credit nowadays the cold , callous cruelty of those times . 
Generally death was the least penalty that capture entailed . 
When the Spaniards made prisoners of the English , the Inquisition took them in hand , and what that meant all the world knows . 
When the English captured a Spanish vessel the prisoners were tortured , either for the sake of revenge or to compel them to disclose where treasure lay hidden . 
Cruelty begat cruelty , and it would be hard to say whether the Anglo Saxon or the Latin showed himself to be most proficient in torturing his victim . 
There were some twenty dead bodies in the sail when a few days later it was washed up on the shore . 
Of course such acts were not likely to go unavenged , and many an innocent life was sacrificed to pay the debt of Cobham's cruelty . 
Nothing could be more piratical than all this . 
Nevertheless , the seed had been sown it had been demonstrated that it was feasible to practice piracy against Spain and not to suffer therefor . 
Blood had been shed and cruelty practiced , and , once indulged , no lust seems stronger than that of shedding blood and practicing cruelty . 
Though Spain might be ever so well grounded in peace at home , in the West Indies she was always at war with the whole world English , French , Dutch . 
It was almost a matter of life or death with her to keep her hold upon the New World . 
At home she was bankrupt and , upon the earthquake of the Reformation , her power was already beginning to totter and to crumble to pieces . 
America was her treasure house , and from it alone could she hope to keep her leaking purse full of gold and silver . 
But still she strove , fighting against fate , and so it was that in the tropical America it was one continual war between her and all the world . 
Augustine to the island of Trinidad , and from Panama to the coasts of Peru . 
About the middle of the seventeenth century certain French adventurers set out from the fortified island of St . 
Christopher in longboats and hoys , directing their course to the westward , there to discover new islands . 
Sighting Hispaniola with abundance of joy , they landed , and went into the country , where they found great quantities of wild cattle , horses , and swine . 
So down upon Hispaniola they came by boatloads and shiploads , gathering like a swarm of mosquitoes , and overrunning the whole western end of the island . 
Buccanning , by which the buccaneers gained their name , was of process of curing thin strips of meat by salting , smoking , and drying in the sun . 
But of this the careless buccaneers thought never a whit , the only thing that troubled them being the lack of a more convenient shipping point than the main island afforded them . 
This lack was at last filled by a party of hunters who ventured across the narrow channel that separated the main island from Tortuga . 
The only separation that came betwixt them was death , and then the survivor inherited all that the other left . 
By and by , as the French became more strongly organized for mutual self protection , they assumed the offensive . 
Having firmly established themselves , a governor was sent to the French of Tortuga , one M. le Passeur , from the island of St . 
Hitherto the Tortugans had been content to gain as much as possible from the homeward bound vessels through the orderly channels of legitimate trade . 
It was reserved for Pierre le Grand to introduce piracy as a quicker and more easy road to wealth than the semi honest exchange they had been used to practice . 
For a while their luck was steadily against them their provisions and water began to fail , and they saw nothing before them but starvation or a humiliating return . 
In this extremity they sighted a Spanish ship belonging to a flota which had become separated from her consorts . 
Nothing remained for the Spaniard but to yield , for there was no alternative between surrender and death . 
And so the great prize was won . 
It was not long before the news of this great exploit and of the vast treasure gained reached the ears of the buccaneers of Tortuga and Hispaniola . 
In a short time freebooting assumed all of the routine of a regular business . 
Articles were drawn up betwixt captain and crew , compacts were sealed , and agreements entered into by the one party and the other . 
In all professions there are those who make their mark , those who succeed only moderately well , and those who fail more or less entirely . 
Bartholomew Portuguese was a worthy of even more note . 
In a boat manned with thirty fellow adventurers he fell upon a great ship off Cape Corrientes , manned with threescore and ten men , all told . 
They lost their vessel by recapture , and Bartholomew Portuguese barely escaped with his life through a series of almost unbelievable adventures . 
He lost her in a hurricane soon afterward , just off the Isle of Pines but the deed was none the less daring for all that . 
Such were three of the pirate buccaneers who infested the Spanish Main . 
There were hundreds no less desperate , no less reckless , no less insatiate in their lust for plunder , than they . 
The effects of this freebooting soon became apparent . 
The risks to be assumed by the owners of vessels and the shippers of merchandise became so enormous that Spanish commerce was practically swept away from these waters . 
No vessel dared to venture out of port excepting under escort of powerful men of war , and even then they were not always secure from molestation . 
Exports from Central and South America were sent to Europe by way of the Strait of Magellan , and little or none went through the passes between the Bahamas and the Caribbees . 
So at last buccaneering , as it had come to be generically called , ceased to pay the vast dividends that it had done at first . 
The cream was skimmed off , and only very thin milk was left in the dish . 
Fabulous fortunes were no longer earned in a ten days' cruise , but what money was won hardly paid for the risks of the winning . 
There must be a new departure , or buccaneering would cease to exist . 
Then arose one who showed the buccaneers a new way to squeeze money out of the Spaniards . 
This man was an Englishman Lewis Scot . 
The stoppage of commerce on the Spanish Main had naturally tended to accumulate all the wealth gathered and produced into the chief fortified cities and towns of the West Indies . 
As there no longer existed prizes upon the sea , they must be gained upon the land , if they were to be gained at all . 
Lewis Scot was the first to appreciate this fact . 
With this booty he set sail for Tortuga , where he arrived safely and the problem was solved . 
After Mansvelt followed the bold John Davis , native of Jamaica , where he sucked in the lust of piracy with his mother's milk . 
And now one appeared upon the scene who reached a far greater height than any had arisen to before . 
This was Francois l'Olonoise , who sacked the great city of Maracaibo and the town of Gibraltar . 
At the dawn of the morning he made his attack sharp , unexpected , decisive . 
In a little while the Spaniards were forced below the hatches , and the vessel was taken . 
Among the rest the negro was dragged upon the deck . 
He begged and implored that his life might be spared , promising to tell all that might be asked of him . 
L'Olonoise questioned him , and when he had squeezed him dry , waved his hand coldly , and the poor black went with the rest . 
The rise of l'Olonoise was by no means rapid . 
He worked his way up by dint of hard labor and through much ill fortune . 
But by and by , after many reverses , the tide turned , and carried him with it from one success to another , without let or stay , to the bitter end . 
Leaving their vessels , the buccaneers made a land attack upon the fort that stood at the mouth of the inlet that led into Lake Maracaibo and guarded the city . 
Then the pirates marched into the town , and what followed may be conceived . 
It was a holocaust of lust , of passion , and of blood such as even the Spanish West Indies had never seen before . 
Houses and churches were sacked until nothing was left but the bare walls men and women were tortured to compel them to disclose where more treasure lay hidden . 
The pirates came all in good time , and then , in spite of the brave defense , Gibraltar also fell . 
Then they left , but before they went they demanded still more money ten thousand pieces of eight as a ransom for the town , which otherwise should be given to the flames . 
There was some hesitation on the part of the Spaniards , some disposition to haggle , but there was no hesitation on the part of l'Olonoise . 
The torch WAS set to the town as he had promised , whereupon the money was promptly paid , and the pirates were piteously begged to help quench the spreading flames . 
This they were pleased to do , but in spite of all their efforts nearly half of the town was consumed . 
After that they returned to Maracaibo again , where they demanded a ransom of thirty thousand pieces of eight for the city . 
There was no haggling here , thanks to the fate of Gibraltar only it was utterly impossible to raise that much money in all of the poverty stricken region . 
But at last the matter was compromised , and the town was redeemed for twenty thousand pieces of eight and five hundred head of cattle , and tortured Maracaibo was quit of them . 
Henry Morgan , the bold Welshman , who brought buccaneering to the height and flower of its glory . 
Having sold himself , after the manner of the times , for his passage across the seas , he worked out his time of servitude at the Barbados . 
As soon as he had regained his liberty he entered upon the trade of piracy , wherein he soon reached a position of considerable prominence . 
The first attempt that Capt . 
It was a deed the boldness of which has never been outdone by any of a like nature not even the famous attack upon Panama itself . 
Thence they returned to their boats in the very face of the whole island of Cuba , aroused and determined upon their extermination . 
But when the division of all this wealth came to be made , lo ! there were only fifty thousand pieces of eight to be found . 
What had become of the rest no man could tell but Capt . 
Honesty among thieves was never an axiom with him . 
In spite of the vast sum of money that he had very evidently made away with , recruits poured in upon him , until his band was larger and better equipped than ever . 
And now it was determined that the plunder harvest was ripe at Porto Bello , and that city's doom was sealed . 
The town was defended by two strong castles thoroughly manned , and officered by as gallant a soldier as ever carried Toledo steel at his side . 
But strong castles and gallant soldiers weighed not a barleycorn with the buccaneers when their blood was stirred by the lust of gold . 
Landing at Puerto Naso , a town some ten leagues westward of Porto Bello , they marched to the latter town , and coming before the castle , boldly demanded its surrender . 
It was refused , whereupon Morgan threatened that no quarter should be given . 
Still surrender was refused and then the castle was attacked , and after a bitter struggle was captured . 
Still the governor held out in the other castle , and might have made good his defense , but that he was betrayed by the soldiers under him . 
Into the castle poured the howling buccaneers . 
Here were enacted the old scenes . 
Everything plundered that could be taken , and then a ransom set upon the town itself . 
This time an honest , or an apparently honest , division was made of the spoils , which amounted to two hundred and fifty thousand pieces of eight , besides merchandise and jewels . 
The next towns to suffer were poor Maracaibo and Gibraltar , now just beginning to recover from the desolation wrought by l'Olonoise . 
Once more both towns were plundered of every bale of merchandise and of every plaster , and once more both were ransomed until everything was squeezed from the wretched inhabitants . 
But no the Spanish admiral would hear nothing of this . 
Having the pirates , as he thought , securely in his grasp , he would relinquish nothing , but would sweep them from the face of the sea once and forever . 
Then out of the lake the pirates sailed to meet the Spaniards , the fire ship leading the way , and bearing down directly upon the admiral's vessel . 
At the helm stood volunteers , the most desperate and the bravest of all the pirate gang , and at the ports stood the logs of wood in montera caps . 
He tried to swing loose , but clouds of smoke and almost instantly a mass of roaring flames enveloped both vessels , and the admiral was lost . 
The third vessel , not having an opportunity to escape , was taken by the pirates without the slightest resistance , and the passage from the lake was cleared . 
So the buccaneers sailed away , leaving Maracaibo and Gibraltar prostrate a second time . 
And now Captain Morgan determined to undertake another venture , the like of which had never been equaled in all of the annals of buccaneering . 
Port Couillon , in the island of Hispaniola , over against the Ile de la Vache , was the place of muster , and thither the motley band gathered from all quarters . 
Provisions had been plundered from the mainland wherever they could be obtained , and by the th of October , , everything was in readiness . 
The island of Saint Catharine , as it may be remembered , was at one time captured by Mansvelt , Morgan's master in his trade of piracy . 
It had been retaken by the Spaniards , and was now thoroughly fortified by them . 
Almost the first attempt that Morgan had made as a master pirate was the retaking of Saint Catharine's Isle . 
In that undertaking he had failed but now , as there was an absolute need of some such place as a base of operations , he determined that the place must be taken . 
As it was , he surrendered it in a most cowardly fashion , merely stipulating that there should be a sham attack by the buccaneers , whereby his credit might be saved . 
And so Saint Catharine was won . 
This adventure was undertaken by four hundred picked men under command of Captain Morgan himself . 
This stronghold Morgan must have if he ever hoped to win Panama . 
The attack of the castle and the defense of it were equally fierce , bloody , and desperate . 
Again and again the buccaneers assaulted , and again and again they were beaten back . 
So the morning came , and it seemed as though the pirates had been baffled this time . 
So fell the castle of Chagres , and nothing now lay between the buccaneers and the city of Panama but the intervening and trackless forests . 
And now the name of the town whose doom was sealed was no secret . 
Up the river of Chagres went Capt . 
There a more powerful foe awaited them than a host of Spaniards with match , powder , and lead starvation . 
Says the narrator of these events , himself one of the expedition , They afterward fell to eating those leathern bags , as affording something to the ferment of their stomachs . 
Ten days they struggled through this bitter privation , doggedly forcing their way onward , faint with hunger and haggard with weakness and fever . 
Then they marched toward the city . 
The torch was set to it , and Panama , one of the greatest cities in the New World , was swept from the face of the earth . 
Why the deed was done , no man but Morgan could tell . 
Perhaps it was that all the secret hiding places for treasure might be brought to light but whatever the reason was , it lay hidden in the breast of the great buccaneer himself . 
When this dividend was declared a howl of execration went up , under which even Capt . 
At night he and four other commanders slipped their cables and ran out to sea , and it was said that these divided the greater part of the booty among themselves . 
But the wealth plundered at Panama could hardly have fallen short of a million and a half of dollars . 
With this fabulous wealth , wrenched from the Spaniards by means of the rack and the cord , and pilfered from his companions by the meanest of thieving , Capt . 
The buccaneers became bolder and bolder . 
, known generally as marooners , swarming upon the decks below . 
Trading became almost as dangerous as privateering , and sea captains were chosen as much for their knowledge of the flintlock and the cutlass as for their seamanship . 
Maroon to put ashore on a desert isle , as a sailor , under pretense of having committed some great crime . 
Thus our good Noah Webster gives us the dry bones , the anatomy , upon which the imagination may construct a specimen to suit itself . 
It is thence that the marooners took their name , for marooning was one of their most effective instruments of punishment or revenge . 
The process of marooning was as simple as terrible . 
, and the condemned man was rowed from the ship to the beach . 
It rarely if ever happened that anything was known of him after having been marooned . 
First of all upon the list of pirates stands the bold Captain Avary , one of the institutors of marooning . 
Him we see but dimly , half hidden by the glamouring mists of legends and tradition . 
One of these vessels was named the Duke , of which a certain Captain Gibson was the commander and Avary the mate . 
, instead of going ashore to saturate himself with rum at the ordinary , had his drink in his cabin in private . 
Perhaps he lay for a while turning the matter over and over in his muddled head , but he presently rang the bell , and Avary and another fellow answered the call . 
What's the matter ? bawls the captain from his berth . 
Nothing , says Avary , coolly . 
Something's the matter with the ship , says the captain . 
Does she drive ? What weather is it ? Oh no , says Avary we are at sea . 
At sea ? Come , come ! says Avary I'll tell you you must know that I'm the captain of the ship now , and you must be packing from this here cabin . 
No , he would make a bold stroke for it at once , and make or lose at a single cast . 
On his way he picked up a couple of like kind with himself two sloops off Madagascar . 
With these he sailed away to the coast of India , and for a time his name was lost in the obscurity of uncertain history . 
But only for a time , for suddenly it flamed out in a blaze of glory . 
Rumor , growing with the telling , has it that Avary is going to marry the Indian princess , willy nilly , and will turn rajah , and eschew piracy as indecent . 
As for the treasure itself , there was no end to the extent to which it grew as it passed from mouth to mouth . 
, which he captured , and thereby gained a vast prize . 
Having concluded that he had earned enough money by the trade he had undertaken , he determined to retire and live decently for the rest of his life upon what he already had . 
As a step toward this object , he set about cheating his Madagascar partners out of their share of what had been gained . 
Here he found himself the possessor of a plentiful stock of jewels , such as pearls , diamonds , rubies , etc . 
, but with hardly a score of honest farthings to jingle in his breeches pocket . 
He consulted with a certain merchant of Bristol concerning the disposal of the stones a fellow not much more cleanly in his habits of honesty than Avary himself . 
This worthy undertook to act as Avary's broker . 
Off he marched with the jewels , and that was the last that the pirate saw of his Indian treasure . 
Perhaps the most famous of all the piratical names to American ears are those of Capt . 
Edward Teach , or Blackbeard . 
So poor Kidd must be relegated to the dull ranks of simply respectable people , or semirespectable people at best . 
Not only did he make it himself , but he persuaded his old captain to join with him . 
And now fairly began that series of bold and lawless depredations which have made his name so justly famous , and which placed him among the very greatest of marooning freebooters . 
He was accustomed to twist it with ribbons into small tails , after the manner of our Ramillies wig , and turn them about his ears . 
The night before the day of the action in which he was killed he sat up drinking with some congenial company until broad daylight . 
One of them asked him if his poor young wife knew where his treasure was hidden . 
No , says Blackbeard nobody but the devil and I knows where it is , and the longest liver shall have all . 
As for that poor young wife of his , the life that he and his rum crazy shipmates led her was too terrible to be told . 
From that time he was actively engaged in the making of American history in his small way . 
he retained as though they were prisoners of war . 
One morning Captain Blackbeard finds that his stock of medicine is low . 
Tut ! says he , we'll turn no hair gray for that . 
, and go up to Charleston and get the medicine . 
There was no task that suited our Captain Richards better than that . 
Up to the town he rowed , as bold as brass . 
So Blackbeard got his medicine , and though it cost the colony two thousand dollars , it was worth that much to the town to be quit of him . 
Having gained a booty of between seven and eight thousand dollars from the prizes captured , the pirates sailed away from Charleston Harbor to the coast of North Carolina . 
At Topsail Inlet he ran his own vessel aground , as though by accident . 
Hands , the captain of one of the consorts , pretending to come to his assistance , also grounded HIS sloop . 
Nothing now remained but for those who were able to get away in the other craft , which was all that was now left of the little fleet . 
This did Blackbeard with some forty of his favorites . 
The rest of the pirates were left on the sand spit to await the return of their companions which never happened . 
As for Blackbeard and those who were with him , they were that much richer , for there were so many the fewer pockets to fill . 
About that time a royal proclamation had been issued offering pardon to all pirates in arms who would surrender to the king's authority before a given date . 
So up goes Master Blackbeard to the Governor of North Carolina and makes his neck safe by surrendering to the proclamation albeit he kept tight clutch upon what he had already gained . 
Becoming tired of an inactive life , Blackbeard afterward resumed his piratical career . 
So they sent a deputation up to the Governor of Virginia asking if he would be pleased to help them in their trouble . 
There were two men of war lying at Kicquetan , in the James River , at the time . 
There he found Blackbeard waiting for him , and as ready for a fight as ever the lieutenant himself could be . 
Fight they did , and while it lasted it was as pretty a piece of business of its kind as one could wish to see . 
At the very first discharge of their pistols Blackbeard had been shot through the body , but he was not for giving up for that not he . 
After that the lieutenant cut off the pirate's head , and sailed away in triumph , with the bloody trophy nailed to the bow of his battered sloop . 
This Anthony told me he had been among the pirates , and that he belonged to one of the sloops in Virginia when Blackbeard was taken . 
Fronting the landing place are five trees , among which , he said , the money was hid . 
If anybody should obtain the benefit of this account , if it please God that they ever come to England , 'tis hoped they will remember whence they had this information . 
Edward Low , who learned his trade of sail making at good old Boston town , and piracy at Honduras . 
No one stood higher in the trade than he , and no one mounted to more lofty altitudes of bloodthirsty and unscrupulous wickedness . 
'Tis strange that so little has been written and sung of this man of might , for he was as worthy of story and of song as was Blackbeard . 
What are you after ? says the captain , for they were coming back with nothing but themselves in the boat . 
We're after our dinner , says Low , as spokesman of the party . 
You'll have no dinner , says the captain , until you fetch off another load . 
Dinner or no dinner , we'll pay for it , says Low , wherewith he up with a musket , squinted along the barrel , and pulled the trigger . 
Luckily the gun hung fire , and the Yankee captain was spared to steal logwood a while longer . 
Once he fell in with a ship off South Carolina the Amsterdam Merchant , Captain Williamson , commander a Yankee craft and a Yankee master . 
He slit the nose and cropped the ears of the captain , and then sailed merrily away , feeling the better for having marred a Yankee . 
New York and New England had more than one visit from the doughty captain , each of which visits they had good cause to remember , for he made them smart for it . 
Along in the year thirteen vessels were riding at anchor in front of the good town of Marblehead . 
Into the harbor sailed a strange craft . 
Who is she ? say the townsfolk , for the coming of a new vessel was no small matter in those days . 
Who the strangers were was not long a matter of doubt . 
Up goes the black flag , and the skull and crossbones to the fore . 
'Tis the bloody Low , say one and all and straightway all was flutter and commotion , as in a duck pond when a hawk pitches and strikes in the midst . 
It was a glorious thing for our captain , for here were thirteen Yankee crafts at one and the same time . 
So he took what he wanted , and then sailed away , and it was many a day before Marblehead forgot that visit . 
And lucky for them if no worse fate awaited them than to walk the dreadful plank with a bandage around the blinded eyes and a rope around the elbows . 
So the consort was taken , and the crew tried and hanged in chains , and Low sailed off in as pretty a bit of rage as ever a pirate fell into . 
Here fittingly with our strictly American pirates should stand Major Stede Bonnet along with the rest . 
After the next assizes they were strung up , all in a row evil apples ready for the roasting . 
Ned England was a fellow of different blood only he snapped his whip across the back of society over in the East Indies and along the hot shores of Hindustan . 
Howel Davis stands high among his fellows . 
He was the Ulysses of pirates , the beloved not only of Mercury , but of Minerva . 
They tied the soldiers back to back , and the governor to his own armchair , and then rifled wherever it pleased them . 
After that they sailed away , and though they had not made the fortune they had hoped to glean , it was a good snug round sum that they shared among them . 
Their courage growing high with success , they determined to attempt the island of Del Principe a prosperous Portuguese settlement on the coast . 
Accordingly , the next day , when Captain Davis came ashore , he found there a good strong guard drawn up as though to honor his coming . 
Many were the poor fluttering merchant ducks that this sea hawk swooped upon and struck and cleanly and cleverly were they plucked before his savage clutch loosened its hold upon them . 
Thus he appeared in the last engagement which he fought that with the Swallow a royal sloop of war . 
A certain fellow named Stevenson , who was at the helm , saw him fall , and thought he was wounded . 
At the lifting of the arm the body rolled over upon the deck , and the man saw that the captain was dead . 
Whereupon , says the old history , he Stevenson gushed into tears , and wished that the next shot might be his portion . 
After their captain's death the pirate crew had no stomach for more fighting the Black Roger was struck , and one and all surrendered to justice and the gallows . 
Such is a brief and bald account of the most famous of these pirates . 
But they are only a few of a long list of notables , such as Captain Martel , Capt . 
And such is that black chapter of history of the past an evil chapter , lurid with cruelty and suffering , stained with blood and smoke . 
Yet it is a written chapter , and it must be read . 
He who chooses may read betwixt the lines of history this great truth Evil itself is an instrument toward the shaping of good . 
Therefore the history of evil as well as the history of good should be read , considered , and digested . 
, was murdered in Jamaica by Capt . 
John Malyoe , the commander of his own consort , the Adventure galley . 
When he started out upon that adventure it was with a ship , the Royal Sovereign , fitted out by some of the most decent merchants of New York . 
The governor himself had subscribed to the adventure , and had himself signed Captain Brand's commission . 
, and buried the treasure somewhere on the beach of Port Royal Harbor . 
Oh , my name was Captain Brand , And I sinned by sea and land , For I broke God's just command , A sailing free . 
For it was during his fifth voyage to the West Indies that the first of those extraordinary adventures happened of which I shall have presently to tell . 
You may judge of Barnaby's surprise when he opened the note and read as follows MR . 
Sir , keep this note , and show it to him who shall address these words to you , so to certify that you are the man he seeks . 
Such was the wording of the note , which was without address , and without any superscription whatever . 
The first emotion that stirred Barnaby was one of extreme and profound amazement . 
, and to look out across the water at the shipping in the cool of the night . 
A great many vessels were lying at anchor in their ridings , with the dark , prodigious form of a man of war looming up above them in the moonlight . 
Without saying a word among themselves they chose a near by table and , sitting down , ordered rum and water , and began drinking their grog in silence . 
Now I may honestly say that Barnaby True was never more struck aback in all his life than he was at hearing these words uttered in so unexpected a manner . 
For it shows me that you are a man of mettle , and are deserving of the fortune that is to befall you to night . 
Nevertheless , first of all , I am bid to say that you must show me a piece of paper that you have about you before we go a step farther . 
Very well , said Barnaby I have it here safe and sound , and see it you shall . 
And thereupon and without more ado he fetched out his wallet , opened it , and handed his interlocutor the mysterious note he had received the day or two before . 
Whereupon the other , drawing to him the candle , burning there for the convenience of those who would smoke tobacco , began immediately reading it . 
This gave Barnaby True a moment or two to look at him . 
'Tis all right and straight as it should be , the other said , after he had so glanced his eyes over the note . 
, I'll just burn it , for safety's sake . 
And so he did , twisting it up and setting it to the flame of the candle . 
And now , he said , continuing his address , I'll tell you what I am here for . 
Say 'No , and I go away again , and I promise you you shall never be troubled again in this sort . 
So now speak up plain , young gentleman , and tell us what is your mind in this business , and whether you will adventure any farther or not . 
If our hero hesitated it was not for long . 
At this the other burst out a laughing . 
Come , says he , you are indeed of right mettle , and I like your spirit . 
So come , and let us get away . 
Not a word was spoken after they had thus left the shore , and presently they might all have been ghosts , for the silence of the party . 
As for the others , they did not seem to choose to say anything now that they had him fairly embarked upon their enterprise . 
, which by and by began to loom up out of the milky dimness of the moonlight . 
Thus they came up under what was either a point of land or an islet covered with a thick growth of mangrove trees . 
But still no one spoke a single word as to their destination , or what was the business they had in hand . 
So , the rowers bending to the oars , the boat came slowly around from under the clump of mangrove bushes and out into the open water again . 
Instantly it did so the leader of the expedition called out in a sharp voice , and the black men instantly lay on their oars . 
But he knew nothing of what it all meant , nor whether these others were friends or enemies , or what was to happen next . 
The oarsmen of the approaching boat did not for a moment cease their rowing , not till they had come pretty close to Barnaby and his companions . 
Then a man who sat in the stern ordered them to cease rowing , and as they lay on their oars he stood up . 
Amidship of the boat was a box or chest about the bigness of a middle sized traveling trunk , but covered all over with cakes of sand and dirt . 
In the act of passing , the gentleman , still standing , pointed at it with an elegant gold headed cane which he held in his hand . 
The other did not immediately reply so much as a single word , but sat as still as any stone . 
As the boat went away into the night with the tide and the headway the oars had given it , he grinned so that the moonlight shone white on his big teeth . 
By and by one of those in Barnaby's boat spoke up . 
Where shall you go now ? he said . 
At this the leader of the expedition appeared suddenly to come back to himself , and to find his voice again . 
Go ? he roared out . 
As for that box covered all over with mud , he could only guess at that time what it contained and what the finding of it signified . 
Did you ever hear tell of Capt . 
Jack Malyoe , Master Barnaby ? Now I do believe that Mr. Greenfield had no notion at all that old Captain Brand was Barnaby True's own grandfather and Capt . 
Nevertheless , he was able to reply , with a pretty straight face , that he had heard of Captain Malyoe and who he was . 
, the world will wink its eye to much that he may have done twenty years ago . 
I do hear say , though , that his own kin still turn the cold shoulder to him . 
To this address Barnaby answered nothing , but sat smoking away at his cigarro at a great rate . 
Barnaby True and Mr. Greenfield both went out to see the two into their coach , where Sir John's man stood holding the lantern . 
Well , no matter 'tis something to have a brisk , genteel young fellow for a supercargo . 
So come , my hearty , lend a hand , will you , and help me set His Honor's cabin to rights . 
At this the serving man , who saw it all with eyes as quick as a cat's , fell to grinning and chuckling to see Barnaby in his turn so slighted . 
The same day the Belle Helen sailed , with as beautiful , sweet weather as ever a body could wish for . 
There were only two other passengers aboard , the Rev . 
For who was he to look up to Sir John Malyoe's granddaughter , he , the supercargo of a merchant ship , and she the granddaughter of a baronet . 
Nevertheless , things went along very smooth and pleasant , until one evening , when all came of a sudden to an end . 
She had been mightily quiet and dull all that evening , but now of a sudden she began , without any preface whatever , to tell Barnaby about herself and her affairs . 
Then she went on to say that Captain Malyoe was the next heir to the Devonshire estate , and that she and he were to be married in the fall . 
But , poor Barnaby ! what a fool was he , to be sure ! Methinks when she first began to speak about Captain Malyoe he knew what was coming . 
But now that she had told him , he could say nothing , but stood there staring across the ocean , his breath coming hot and dry as ashes in his throat . 
You hussy ! he bawled out with vile oaths , too horrible here to be set down . 
Sir John went staggering back with the push Barnaby gave him , and then caught himself up again . 
had not his manservant caught him and held him back . 
Keep back ! cried out our hero , still mighty hoarse . 
But Barnaby , who was by this fairly set agoing , could not now stop himself . 
What's all this ? cries Captain Manly , bustling up to them with Mr. Freesden . 
What does all this mean ? But , as I have said , our hero was too far gone now to contain himself until all that he had to say was out . 
The damned villain insulted me and insulted the young lady , he cried out , panting in the extremity of his passion , and then he threatened to strike me with his cane . 
But I know who he is and what he is . 
I know what he's got in his cabin in those two trunks , and where he found it , and whom it belongs to . 
He found it on the shores of the Rio Cobra River , and I have only to open my mouth and tell what I know about it . 
At this Captain Manly clapped his hand upon our hero's shoulder and fell to shaking him so that he could scarcely stand , calling out to him the while to be silent . 
What do you mean ? he cried . 
An officer of this ship to quarrel with a passenger of mine ! Go straight to your cabin , and stay there till I give you leave to come out again . 
At this Master Barnaby came somewhat back to himself and into his wits again with a jump . 
I'll have no such rioting as this aboard my ship . 
Barnaby True looked around him , but the young lady was gone . 
Nor , in the blindness of his frenzy , had he seen when she had gone nor whither she went . 
Then came a tremendous uproar of voices in the great cabin , the struggling as of men's bodies being tossed about , striking violently against the partitions and bulkheads . 
Therewith , still kneeling upon the deck , he covered the bosom of that shadowy figure pointblank , as he thought , with his pistol , and instantly pulled the trigger . 
Then the darkness , very thick and black , swallowed everything again . 
But in the instant Sir John Malyoe called out , in a great loud voice My God ! 'Tis William Brand ! Therewith came the sound of some one falling heavily down . 
It was the latter who was attending to Barnaby's hurt with such extreme care and gentleness . 
All this Barnaby saw with his first clear consciousness after his swoon . 
Nor did he open his eyes again , but lay there gathering his wits together and wondering thus until the bandage was properly tied about his head and sewed together . 
Then once more he opened his eyes , and looked up to ask where he was . 
Well , says the other , and so you be up at last , and no great harm done , I'll be bound . 
Well , so you were treated ill enough though who hit you that crack upon the head I know no more than a child unborn . 
Here he helped himself to a taste of grog , and sucking in his lips , went on again with what he had to say . 
Why , I mean this , said the other . 
I remember something of the sort , said Barnaby , now that you speak of it , but still I am all in the dark as to what you are driving at . 
The other looked at him very cunningly for a little while , his head on one side , and his eyes half shut . 
Then , as if satisfied , he suddenly burst out laughing . 
Well , and what do you think of that ? said the other . 
It was Miss Marjorie Malyoe , very white , and looking as though stunned or bewildered by all that had befallen her . 
Barnaby True could never tell whether the amazing strange voyage that followed was of long or of short duration whether it occupied three days or ten days . 
Nor did this strange , mysterious crew , of God knows what sort of men , seem to pay any attention whatever to Barnaby or to the young lady . 
Otherwise our hero and the young lady were left to themselves , to do as they pleased , with no one to interfere with them . 
'Twas the last place in the world he had expected to see . 
And , indeed , it did seem strange to lie there alongside Staten Island all that day , with New York town so nigh at hand and yet so impossible to reach . 
What was so taken up to the town Barnaby did not then guess , but the boat did not return again till about sundown . 
Having so begun , he went on to say that there was one thing yet remaining for him to do , and that the greatest thing of all . 
Nevertheless , he told her she must speak up and tell him yes or no , and that God knew he would give all the world if she would say yes . 
Nor may I tell what she replied to him , only this , that she said she would marry him . 
At this he took her into his arms and set his lips to hers , his heart all melting away in his bosom . 
Wherewith he wished them both joy , and gave Barnaby his hand . 
The yawlboat belonging to the brigantine was ready and waiting alongside when they came upon deck , and immediately they descended to it and took their seats . 
And so to the minister's house , finding him waiting for them , smoking his pipe in the warm evening , and walking up and down in front of his own door . 
Nor did Barnaby True ever set eyes upon those beings again , nor did anyone else that I ever heard tell of . 
As for Mr. Hartright , he guessed no more what was in it than the man in the moon . 
For surely if that treasure did not belong to Barnaby , there could be no doubt that it must belong to his wife , she being Sir John Malyoe's legal heir . 
John Malyoe on the banks of the Rio Cobra River in the year . 
III WITH THE BUCCANEERS Being an Account of Certain Adventures that Befell Henry Mostyn Under Capt . 
In the year our hero's father embarked from Portsmouth , in England , for the Barbados , where he owned a considerable sugar plantation . 
At this time there was a deal of talk in those parts of the Americas concerning Captain Morgan , and the prodigious successes he was having pirating against the Spaniards . 
This man had once been an indentured servant with Mr. Rolls , a sugar factor at the Barbados . 
II Could you but have seen the town of Port Royal as it appeared in the year you would have beheld a sight very well worth while looking upon . 
Here , arriving , Captain Morgan found a hearty welcome , and a message from the governor awaiting him , the message bidding him attend His Excellency upon the earliest occasion that offered . 
along with him , our pirate went , without any loss of time , to visit Sir Thomas Modiford , who was then the royal governor of all this devil's brew of wickedness . 
They found His Excellency seated in a great easy chair , under the shadow of a slatted veranda , the floor whereof was paved with brick . 
He was clad , for the sake of coolness , only in his shirt , breeches , and stockings , and he wore slippers on his feet . 
He was smoking a great cigarro of tobacco , and a goblet of lime juice and water and rum stood at his elbow on a table . 
had , a few years before , been set up by the buccaneers as governor of the island of Santa Catharina . 
At last the Spaniards , no longer able to endure these assaults against their commerce , sent a great force against the freebooters to drive them out of their island stronghold . 
This they did , retaking Santa Catharina , together with its governor , his wife , and daughter , as well as the whole garrison of buccaneers . 
This garrison was sent by their conquerors , some to the galleys , some to the mines , some to no man knows where . 
The governor himself Le Sieur Simon was to be sent to Spain , there to stand his trial for piracy . 
All this , you are to understand , was undertaken only because of the friendship that the governor and Captain Morgan entertained for Le Sieur Simon . 
And , indeed , it was wonderful how honest and how faithful were these wicked men in their dealings with one another . 
Hence it was they were all so determined to rescue Le Sieur Simon from the Spaniards . 
For nearly always your successful pirate had such a little court surrounding him . 
With this following at his heels , our buccaneer started off down the street , his lieutenant , a Cornishman named Bartholomew Davis , upon one hand and our hero upon the other . 
So they paraded the streets for the best part of an hour before they found the Spanish captain . 
Thither they went , and thither Captain Morgan entered with the utmost coolness and composure of demeanor , his followers crowding noisily in at his heels . 
The space within was very dark , being lighted only by the doorway and by two large slatted windows or openings in the front . 
Him Captain Morgan approached and demanded his papers , whereunto the other replied with such a jabber of Spanish and English that no man could have understood what he said . 
At this threatening action the innkeeper's wife fell a screaming , and the Jew , as in a frenzy , besought them not to tear the house down about his ears . 
Our hero could hardly tell what followed , only that all of a sudden there was a prodigious uproar of combat . 
Then another pistol shot so deafened what was left of Master Harry's hearing that his ears rang for above an hour afterward . 
By this time the whole place was full of gunpowder smoke , and there was the sound of blows and oaths and outcrying and the clashing of knives . 
A considerable crowd had gathered outside , and others , hearing the uproar , were coming running to join them . 
Afterward , as you shall learn , he showed that he could exhibit courage enough at a pinch . 
The first of these men was Captain Sylvia the other , who was pursuing him , was Captain Morgan . 
And , indeed , it was a dreadful sight for him who was hardly more than a child . 
He stood rooted for he knew not how long , staring down at the dead face with twitching fingers and shuddering limbs . 
Meantime a great crowd was gathering about them again . 
There were a gold cross and a bunch of silver medals hung by a whipcord about the neck of the dead man . 
The papers Captain Morgan found in a wallet in an inner breast pocket of the Spaniard's waistcoat . 
These he examined one by one , and finding them to his satisfaction , tied them up again , and slipped the wallet and its contents into his own pocket . 
Then for the first time he appeared to observe Master Harry , who , indeed , must have been standing , the perfect picture of horror and dismay . 
and yet be within twenty or twenty five leagues of Porto Bello . 
Aye , had he but worn the king's colors and served under the rules of honest war , he might have become as great and as renowned as Admiral Blake himself . 
Having spied the fleet in this posture , the pirates presently pulled down their sails and rowed along the coast , feigning to be a Spanish vessel from Nombre de Dios . 
So hugging the shore , they came boldly within the harbor , upon the opposite side of which you might see the fortress a considerable distance away . 
Nor did the surgeon question the orders he had received , much less did he dream of disobeying them . 
Whereupon the fishermen , suspecting nothing , pointed to them a galleon of great size riding at anchor not half a league distant . 
he became possessed with such a fear of being drowned that even the Spanish galleon had no terrors for him if he could only feel the solid planks thereof beneath his feet . 
Alvarez Mendazo , and that he brought dispatches for the vice admiral . 
Here they found the captain of the vice admiral playing at cards with the Sieur Simon and a friend , Madam Simon and her daughter being present . 
Having done this , and being in a fine humor after this his first success , he turned to the two ladies . 
And this , ladies , said he , taking our hero by the hand and presenting him , is a young gentleman who has embarked with me to learn the trade of piracy . 
I recommend him to your politeness . 
At this one of the vessels hailed them , and then after a while , having no reply , hailed them again . 
The nearest vessel was the only one that for the moment was able to offer any hindrance . 
And , indeed , to our hero's mind it seemed that the battle which followed must have been the most terrific cannonade that was ever heard in the world . 
By now the moon had risen full and round , so that the clouds of smoke that rose in the air appeared as white as snow . 
At this sight all the strength fell away from poor Harry , and he felt sure that a like fate or even a worse must be in store for him . 
, nearly all the shot flew so wide of the mark that not above one in twenty struck that at which it was aimed . 
Meantime Captain Morgan , with the Sieur Simon , who had followed him upon deck , stood just above where our hero lay behind the shelter of the bulwark . 
Now and then he would take his pipe from his lips to utter an order to the man at the wheel . 
Excepting this he stood there hardly moving at all , the wind blowing his long red hair over his shoulders . 
At this moment , so particular in the execution of this nice design , a bullet suddenly struck down the man at the wheel . 
, seized the flying spokes , whirling them back again , and so bringing the bow of the galleon up to its former course . 
In the first moment of this effort he had reckoned of nothing but of carrying out his captain's designs . 
He neither thought of cannon balls nor of bullets . 
His ears hummed and rang , and his brain swam as light as a feather . 
I know not whether he breathed , but he shut his eyes tight as though that might save him from the bullets that were raining about him . 
And now , indeed , that all danger was past and gone , there were plenty to come running to help our hero at the wheel . 
As for Captain Morgan , having come down upon the main deck , he fetches the young helmsman a clap upon the back . 
As for his emotions , God knows he was nearer crying than laughing , if Captain Morgan had but known it . 
having fitted him out with a shift of his own clothes , Master Harry was presented in a proper form to the ladies . 
For Captain Morgan , if he had felt a liking for the young man before , could not now show sufficient regard for him . 
He ate in the great cabin and was petted by all . 
For all this while , you are to understand , the pirates were making sail straight for Jamaica , which they reached upon the third day in perfect safety . 
'Twas a wonder they did not all make themselves drunk for joy . 
This threat had such effect that they all remained entirely sober until they had reached Port Royal Harbor , which they did about nine o'clock in the morning . 
And now it was that our hero's romance came all tumbling down about his ears with a run . 
He told our embryo pirate that his family had nigh gone distracted because of his wicked and ungrateful conduct . 
Nor could our hero move him from his inflexible purpose . 
What , says our Harry , and will you not then let me wait until our prize is divided and I get my share ? Prize , indeed ! says his brother . 
Nor did he see her any more , except from a distance , she standing on the poop deck as he was rowed away from her , her face all stained with crying . 
, as I have told them unto you . 
Sometimes on Sundays , when the Rev . 
But about the wreck of the bark in . 
The name of the bark , as found painted on some of the water barrels and sea chests , was the Bristol Merchant , and she no doubt hailed from England . 
As was said , the only soul who escaped alive off the wreck was Tom Chist . 
A settler , a fisherman named Matt Abrahamson , and his daughter Molly , found Tom . 
Matt Abrahamson's daughter Molly had had a baby who had died a month or so before . 
It was Parson Jones who gave the foundling his name . 
When the news came to his ears of what Matt Abrahamson had found he went over to the fisherman's cabin to see the child . 
He examined the clothes in which the baby was dressed . 
They were of fine linen and handsomely stitched , and the reverend gentleman opined that the foundling's parents must have been of quality . 
He was standing , as he spoke , with his back to the fire , warming his palms before the blaze . 
The pocket of the greatcoat he wore bulged out with a big case bottle of spirits which he had gathered up out of the wreck that afternoon . 
What d'ye call him , Molly ? I'll call him Tom , after my own baby . 
That goes very well with the initial on the kerchief , said Parson Jones . 
But what other name d'ye give him ? Let it be something to go with the C. I don't know , said Molly . 
Why not call him 'Chist , since he was born in a chist out of the sea ? 'Tom Chist' the name goes off like a flash in the pan . 
And so Tom Chist he was called and Tom Chist he was christened . 
So much for the beginning of the history of Tom Chist . 
The story of Captain Kidd's treasure box does not begin until the late spring of . 
Before he left he turned the whole of Tom Chist's life topsy turvy with something that he brought ashore . 
By that time Tom Chist had grown into a strong limbed , thick jointed boy of fourteen or fifteen years of age . 
It had been a long time now since he had made any outcry or complaint at the hard usage he suffered from old Matt . 
At such times he would shut his teeth and bear whatever came to him , until sometimes the half drunken old man would be driven almost mad by his stubborn silence . 
This is the sort of boy Tom Chist was , and this is the sort of life he led . 
In the late spring or early summer of Captain Kidd's sloop sailed into the mouth of the Delaware Bay and changed the whole fortune of his life . 
And this is how you come to the story of Captain Kidd's treasure box . 
This was the usual fishing ground of the settlers , and here old Matt's boat generally lay drawn up on the sand . 
There had been a thunderstorm that afternoon , and Tom had gone down the beach to bale out the boat in readiness for the morning's fishing . 
It was full moonlight now , as he was returning , and the night sky was full of floating clouds . 
Now and then there was a dull flash to the westward , and once a muttering growl of thunder , promising another storm to come . 
Then he knew that it must be a party who had come off the pirate sloop . 
They had evidently just landed , and two men were lifting out a chest from the boat . 
He had a long , plaited queue hanging down his back , and a great sheath knife dangling from his side . 
Another man , evidently the captain of the party , stood at a little distance as they lifted the chest out of the boat . 
He had a cane in one hand and a lighted lantern in the other , although the moon was shining as bright as day . 
He wore jack boots and a handsome laced coat , and he had a long , drooping mustache that curled down below his chin . 
He wore a fine , feathered hat , and his long black hair hung down upon his shoulders . 
All this Tom Chist could see in the moonlight that glinted and twinkled upon the gilt buttons of his coat . 
They were so busy lifting the chest from the boat that at first they did not observe that Tom Chist had come up and was standing there . 
It was the white man with the long , plaited queue and the gold earrings that spoke to him . 
Boy , what do you want here , boy ? he said , in a rough , hoarse voice . 
Tom saw in a glance that the pirates were all looking at him , and then , without saying a word , he turned and walked away . 
The man who had spoken to him followed him threateningly for some little distance , as though to see that he had gone away as he was bidden to do . 
But presently he stopped , and Tom hurried on alone , until the boat and the crew and all were dropped away behind and lost in the moonlight night . 
Then he himself stopped also , turned , and looked back whence he had come . 
He stood for a little while thus looking and listening . 
He could see nothing , and could hear only the sound of distant talking . 
He had gone along some distance in his circuitous return when he became aware of the sound of voices that seemed to be drawing closer to him as he came toward the speakers . 
He stopped and stood listening , and instantly , as he stopped , the voices stopped also . 
He crouched there silently in the bright , glimmering moonlight , surrounded by the silent stretches of sand , and the stillness seemed to press upon him like a heavy hand . 
Then suddenly the sound of a man's voice began again , and as Tom listened he could hear some one slowly counting . 
Suddenly he saw three heads appear above the sand hill , so close to him that he crouched down quickly with a keen thrill , close beside the hummock near which he stood . 
His first fear was that they might have seen him in the moonlight but they had not , and his heart rose again as the counting voice went steadily on . 
It was the man with the cane whom Tom had seen some time before the captain of the party who had landed . 
And twenty five , and twenty six , and twenty seven , and twenty eight , and twenty nine , and thirty . 
Now they were carrying the heavy box between them , laboring through the sand with shuffling tread as they bore it onward . 
And immediately he who counted took out a slip of paper and marked something down upon it . 
They stood there for a long time , during which Tom lay behind the sand hummock watching them , and for a while the silence was uninterrupted . 
One , two , three minutes passed , and then the men picked up the chest and started on again and then again the other man began his counting . 
He waited for a while , and then arose and stepped to the top of the sand hummock behind which he had been lying . 
He looked all about him , but there was no one else to be seen . 
Then he stepped down from the hummock and followed in the direction which the pirate captain and the two men carrying the chest had gone . 
The three had been crossing the level of sand , and were now not more than twenty five paces from him . 
They had again set down the chest , upon which the white man with the long queue and the gold earrings had seated to rest himself , the negro standing close beside him . 
The moon shone as bright as day and full upon his face . 
It was looking directly at Tom Chist , every line as keen cut with white lights and black shadows as though it had been carved in ivory and jet . 
He sat perfectly motionless , and Tom drew back with a start , almost thinking he had been discovered . 
A soft , sliding hillock of sand lay directly in front of them . 
Then they disappeared again behind the white crest on the other side . 
So Tom followed them cautiously until they had gone almost half a mile inland . 
When next he saw them clearly it was from a little sandy rise which looked down like the crest of a bowl upon the floor of sand below . 
Upon this smooth , white floor the moon beat with almost dazzling brightness . 
The white man who had helped to carry the chest was now kneeling , busied at some work , though what it was Tom at first could not see . 
He drew the cane out of the sand , thrusting the stick down in its stead . 
Then he drove the long peg down with a wooden mallet which the negro handed to him . 
The sharp rapping of the mallet upon the top of the peg sounded loud the perfect stillness , and Tom lay watching and wondering what it all meant . 
The man , with quick repeated blows , drove the peg farther and farther down into the sand until it showed only two or three inches above the surface . 
The two white men were now stooping over the peg , the negro man watching them . 
When the pirate captain had reached the end of the measuring line he marked a cross upon the sand , and then again they measured out another stretch of space . 
III Tom Chist could no longer see what the pirates were doing , neither did he dare to cross over the open space of sand that now lay between them and him . 
Still Tom Chist lay watching . 
Suddenly , almost unexpectedly , the three figures reappeared from behind the sand hill , the pirate captain leading the way , and the negro and white man following close behind him . 
This brought the negro a few steps in front of his companion . 
That which then followed happened so suddenly , so unexpectedly , so swiftly , that Tom Chist had hardly time to realize what it all meant before it was over . 
He took one , two silent , catlike steps behind the unsuspecting negro . 
Tom had distinctly seen the knife enter his back , and even thought that he had seen the glint of the point as it came out from the breast . 
Meantime the pirate captain had stopped , and now stood with his hand resting upon his cane looking impassively on . 
Then the black man started to run . 
The white man stood for a while glaring after him then he , too , started after his victim upon the run . 
The black man was not very far from Tom when he staggered and fell . 
He tried to rise , then fell forward again , and lay at length . 
Then Tom Chist scrambled up and ran away , plunging down into the hollow of sand that lay in the shadows below . 
Over the next rise he ran , and down again into the next black hollow , and so on over the sliding , shifting ground , panting and gasping . 
So he ran on like one in a nightmare . 
His feet grew heavy like lead , he panted and gasped , his breath came hot and dry in his throat . 
His first act was to climb the nearest sand hill and to gaze out toward the offing where the pirate ship had been the day before . 
It was no longer there . 
Soon afterward Matt Abrahamson came out of the cabin and he called to Tom to go get a bite to eat , for it was time for them to be away fishing . 
All that morning the recollection of the night before hung over Tom Chist like a great cloud of boding trouble . 
It filled the confined area of the little boat and spread over the entire wide spaces of sky and sea that surrounded them . 
Not for a moment was it lifted . 
When the boat reached the shore again he leaped scrambling to the beach , and as soon as his dinner was eaten he hurried away to find the Dominie Jones . 
He ran all the way from Abrahamson's hut to the parson's house , hardly stopping once , and when he knocked at the door he was panting and sobbing for breath . 
The light in his pipe went out and the bowl turned cold . 
And I don't see why they should have killed the poor black man , said Tom , as he finished his narrative . 
Why , that is very easy enough to understand , said the good reverend man . 
A treasure box ! cried out Tom . 
Aye , a treasure box ! And that was why they killed the poor black man . 
The villains Tut , tut , look at that now ! In his excitement the dominie had snapped the stem of his tobacco pipe in two . 
Maybe we could find the marks of their feet in the sand , he added . 
'Tis not likely , said the reverend gentleman , for the storm last night would have washed all that away . 
I could find the place , said Tom , where the boat was drawn up on the beach . 
Why , then , that's something to start from , Tom , said his friend . 
If we can find that , then maybe we can find whither they went from there . 
If I was certain it was a treasure box , cried out Tom Chist , I would rake over every foot of sand betwixt here and Henlopen to find it . 
'Twould be like hunting for a pin in a haystack , said the Rev . 
As Tom walked away home , it seemed as though a ton's weight of gloom had been rolled away from his soul . 
The next day he and Parson Jones were to go treasure hunting together it seemed to Tom as though he could hardly wait for the time to come . 
V The next afternoon Parson Jones and Tom Chist started off together upon the expedition that made Tom's fortune forever . 
Tom carried a spade over his shoulder and the reverend gentleman walked along beside him with his cane . 
As they jogged along up the beach they talked together about the only thing they could talk about the treasure box . 
And how big did you say 'twas ? quoth the good gentleman . 
About so long , said Tom Chist , measuring off upon the spade , and about so wide , and this deep . 
Whose else would it be but yours if you find it ? he burst out . 
Parson Jones burst out laughing . 
Thankee , Tom , he said and I'll thankee again when I get my chist of tea . 
'Twas just here , he said , I saw the boat last night . 
I know 'twas here , for I mind me of that bit of wreck yonder , and that there was a tall stake drove in the sand just where yon stake stands . 
Parson Jones put on his barnacles and went over to the stake toward which Tom pointed . 
As soon as he had looked at it carefully he called out Why , Tom , this hath been just drove down into the sand . 
Tom came over and looked at the stake . 
It was a stout piece of oak nearly two inches thick it had been shaped with some care , and the top of it had been painted red . 
He shook the stake and tried to move it , but it had been driven or planted so deeply into the sand that he could not stir it . 
Aye , sir , he said , it must have been set here for a mark , for I'm sure 'twas not here yesterday or the day before . 
He stood looking about him to see if there were other signs of the pirates' presence . 
At some little distance there was the corner of something white sticking up out of the sand . 
He could see that it was a scrap of paper , and he pointed to it , calling out Yonder is a piece of paper , sir . 
I wonder if they left that behind them ? It was a miraculous chance that placed that paper there . 
There was only an inch of it showing , and if it had not been for Tom's sharp eyes , it would certainly have been overlooked and passed by . 
The next windstorm would have covered it up , and all that afterward happened never would have occurred . 
Look , sir , he said , as he struck the sand from it , it hath writing on it . 
Let me see it , said Parson Jones . 
He adjusted the spectacles a little more firmly astride of his nose as he took the paper in his hand and began conning it . 
What's all this ? he said a whole lot of figures and nothing else . 
And then he read aloud , 'Mark S. S. W. S. by S. What d'ye suppose that means , Tom ? I don't know , sir , said Tom . 
But maybe we can understand it better if you read on . 
'Tis all a great lot of figures , said Parson Jones , without a grain of meaning in them so far as I can see , unless they be sailing directions . 
S. E. by E. foot . 
S. S. W. by S. foot . 
Dig to the west of this six foot . 
What's that about a peg ? exclaimed Tom . 
What's that about a peg ? And then there's something about digging , too ! It was as though a sudden light began shining into his brain . 
He felt himself growing quickly very excited . 
Read that over again , sir , he cried . 
Why , sir , you remember I told you they drove a peg into the sand . 
And don't they say to dig close to it ? Read it over again , sir read it over again ! Peg ? said the good gentleman . 
To be sure it was about a peg . 
Yes , here it is . 
'Peg S. E. by E. foot . 
Aye ! cried out Tom Chist again , in great excitement . 
Don't you remember what I told you , sir , foot ? Sure that must be what I saw 'em measuring with the line . 
Parson Jones had now caught the flame of excitement that was blazing up so strongly in Tom's breast . 
He felt as though some wonderful thing was about to happen to them . 
To be sure , to be sure ! he called out , in a great big voice . 
And then they measured out foot south southwest by south , and they then drove another peg , and then they buried the box six foot to the west of it . 
Why , Tom why , Tom Chist ! if we've read this aright , thy fortune is made . 
Tom Chist stood staring straight at the old gentleman's excited face , and seeing nothing but it in all the bright infinity of sunshine . 
It was Parson Jones who first spoke . 
But what do all these figures mean ? And Tom observed how the paper shook and rustled in the tremor of excitement that shook his hand . 
He raised the paper to the focus of his spectacles and began to read again . 
'Mark , , Mark ? cried out Tom , almost screaming . 
Why , that must mean the stake yonder that must be the mark . 
And he pointed to the oaken stick with its red tip blazing against the white shimmer of sand behind it . 
And the and and , cried the old gentleman , in a voice equally shrill why , that must mean the number of steps the pirate was counting when you heard him . 
To be sure that's what they mean ! cried Tom Chist . 
That is it , and it can be nothing else . 
His voice was steady enough , though very hoarse , but his hand shook and trembled as though with a palsy . 
Stay ! stay ! First of all , we must follow these measurements . 
And 'tis a marvelous thing , he croaked , after a little pause , how this paper ever came to be here . 
Maybe it was blown here by the storm , suggested Tom Chist . 
Like enough like enough , said Parson Jones . 
But let us find the box ! cried out Tom Chist , flaming with his excitement . 
Aye , aye , said the good man only stay a little , my boy , until we make sure what we're about . 
I've got my pocket compass here , but we must have something to measure off the feet when we have found the peg . 
You run across to Tom Brooke's house and fetch that measuring rod he used to lay out his new byre . 
While you're gone I'll pace off the distance marked on the paper with my pocket compass here . 
V Tom Chist was gone for almost an hour , though he ran nearly all the way and back , upborne as on the wings of the wind . 
It was the open space where the pirates had driven their first peg , and where Tom Chist had afterward seen them kill the poor black man . 
When Tom Chist saw him he was still bending over , scraping away from something he had found . 
The sun was sloping well toward the west when the blade of Tom Chist's spade struck upon something hard . 
If it had been his own heart that he had hit in the sand his breast could hardly have thrilled more sharply . 
It was the treasure box ! Parson Jones himself leaped down into the hole , and began scraping away the sand with his hands as though he had gone crazy . 
It was securely locked and fastened with a padlock , and it took a good many blows with the blade of the spade to burst the bolt . 
Parson Jones himself lifted the lid . 
Tom Chist leaned forward and gazed down into the open box . 
He would not have been surprised to have seen it filled full of yellow gold and bright jewels . 
It was filled half full of books and papers , and half full of canvas bags tied safely and securely around and around with cords of string . 
Parson Jones lifted out one of the bags , and it jingled as he did so . 
It was full of money . 
Parson Jones held up both hands into the air , and Tom stared at what he saw , wondering whether it was all so , and whether he was really awake . 
It seemed to him as though he was in a dream . 
'Tis enough , cried out Parson Jones , to make us both rich men as long as we live . 
The burning summer sun , though sloping in the sky , beat down upon them as hot as fire but neither of them noticed it . 
It was an hour of sundown before Parson Jones had begun fairly to examine the books and papers in the chest . 
Of the three books , two were evidently log books of the pirates who had been lying off the mouth of the Delaware Bay all this time . 
The other book was written in Spanish , and was evidently the log book of some captured prize . 
And all the while Tom Chist sat and listened , every now and then reaching out furtively and touching the heap of money still lying upon the coat . 
One might be inclined to wonder why Captain Kidd had kept those bloody records . 
If he could have kept them in his own possession they would doubtless have been a great weapon of defense to protect him from the gallows . 
The authorities did not dare try him for piracy . 
The sun sank lower and lower , until there was only time to glance through the other papers in the chest . 
They were nearly all goldsmiths' bills of exchange drawn in favor of certain of the most prominent merchants of New York . 
Parson Jones , as he read over the names , knew of nearly all the gentlemen by hearsay . 
Aye , here was this gentleman he thought that name would be among 'em . 
What ? Here is Mr. So and so . 
Well , if all they say is true , the villain has robbed one of his own best friends . 
I tell you what it is , Tom , he continued , it is you yourself shall go to New York and bargain for the return of these papers . 
'Twill be as good as another fortune to you . 
The majority of the bills were drawn in favor of one Richard Chillingsworth , Esquire . 
And he is , said Parson Jones , one of the richest men in the province of New York . 
You shall go to him with the news of what we have found . 
When shall I go ? said Tom Chist . 
You shall go upon the very first boat we can catch , said the parson . 
He had turned , still holding the bills in his hand , and was now fingering over the pile of money that yet lay tumbled out upon the coat . 
You are as fine a lad as ever I saw , Tom , said the parson , and I'll thank you to the last day of my life . 
Tom scooped up a double handful of silver money . 
sir , he said , and you may have as much more as you want of it . 
He poured it into the dish that the good man made of his hands , and the parson made a motion as though to empty it into his pocket . 
Then he stopped , as though a sudden doubt had occurred to him . 
I don't know that 'tis fit for me to take this pirate money , after all , he said . 
But you are welcome to it , said Tom . 
Nay , he burst out , I'll not take it 'tis blood money . 
And as he spoke he chucked the whole double handful into the now empty chest , then arose and dusted the sand from his breeches . 
Then , with a great deal of bustling energy , he helped to tie the bags again and put them all back into the chest . 
Tom , he said , for the twentieth time , your fortune has been made this day . 
And Tom Chist , as he rattled in his breeches pocket the half dozen doubloons he had kept out of his treasure , felt that what his friend had said was true . 
As the two went back homeward across the level space of sand Tom Chist suddenly stopped stock still and stood looking about him . 
'Twas just here , he said , digging his heel down into the sand , that they killed the poor black man . 
And here he lies buried for all time , said Parson Jones and as he spoke he dug his cane down into the sand . 
He would not have been surprised if the ferrule of the cane had struck something soft beneath that level surface . 
But it did not , nor was any sign of that tragedy ever seen again . 
VII This is the story of the treasure box . 
All that remains now is to conclude the story of Tom Chist , and to tell of what came of him in the end . 
He did not go back again to live with old Matt Abrahamson . 
Parson Jones had now taken charge of him and his fortunes , and Tom did not have to go back to the fisherman's hut . 
But Tom on all these occasions kept carefully out of his way , and nothing came of the old man's threatenings . 
Tom used to go over to see his foster mother now and then , but always when the old man was from home . 
And Molly Abrahamson used to warn him to keep out of her father's way . 
He's in as vile a humor as ever I see , Tom , she said he sits sulking all day long , and 'tis my belief he'd kill ye if he caught ye . 
Of course Tom said nothing , even to her , about the treasure , and he and the reverend gentleman kept the knowledge thereof to themselves . 
About three weeks later Parson Jones managed to get him shipped aboard of a vessel bound for New York town , and a few days later Tom Chist landed at that place . 
All this was very wonderful , and so were the clustered boats riding at anchor in the harbor . 
It was like a new world , so different was it from the sand hills and the sedgy levels of Henlopen . 
Tom Chist took up his lodgings at a coffee house near to the town hall , and thence he sent by the postboy a letter written by Parson Jones to Master Chillingsworth . 
In a little while the boy returned with a message , asking Tom to come up to Mr. Chillingsworth's house that afternoon at two o'clock . 
The counting house was in the same building but Tom , because of Mr. Jones's letter , was conducted directly into the parlor , where the great rich man was awaiting his coming . 
He was sitting in a leather covered armchair , smoking a pipe of tobacco , and with a bottle of fine old Madeira close to his elbow . 
Nor did Mr. Chillingsworth seem to think very highly of his appearance , for he sat looking sideways at Tom as he smoked . 
He straightened himself up in his seat , laid aside his pipe , pushed away his glass of Madeira , and bade Tom take a chair . 
Only once did Mr. Chillingsworth interrupt the narrative . 
Go on tell me more of this . 
When Tom Chist's narrative was ended , Mr. Chillingsworth's bearing was as different as daylight is from dark . 
There was nobody to be there , he said , but his wife and daughter . 
Tom , all in a panic at the very thought of the two ladies , sturdily refused to stay even for the dish of tea Mr. Chillingsworth offered him . 
He did not know that he was destined to stay there as long as he should live . 
And now , said Mr. Chillingsworth , tell me about yourself . 
I have nothing to tell , Your Honor , said Tom , except that I was washed up out of the sea . 
Washed up out of the sea ! exclaimed Mr. Chillingsworth . 
Why , how was that ? Come , begin at the beginning , and tell me all . 
Thereupon Tom Chist did as he was bidden , beginning at the very beginning and telling everything just as Molly Abrahamson had often told it to him . 
As he continued , Mr. Chillingsworth's interest changed into an appearance of stronger and stronger excitement . 
Suddenly he jumped up out of his chair and began to walk up and down the room . 
Stop ! stop ! he cried out at last , in the midst of something Tom was saying . 
I knew it ! I knew it ! exclaimed the great man , in a loud voice , flinging his hands up into the air . 
I felt it was so the moment you began the story . 
His name was Oliver Chillingsworth , and he was my partner in business , and thou art his son . 
Then he ran out into the entryway , shouting and calling for his wife and daughter to come . 
So Tom Chist or Thomas Chillingsworth , as he now was to be called did stay to supper , after all . 
This is the story , and I hope you may like it . 
He did not forget his friends , but had Parson Jones brought to New York to live . 
he got at least a good big lump of it . 
And it is my belief that those log books did more to get Captain Kidd arrested in Boston town and hanged in London than anything else that was brought up against him . 
At that time the American colonists were in general a rough , rugged people , knowing nothing of the finer things of life . 
They lived mostly in little settlements , separated by long distances from one another , so that they could neither make nor enforce laws to protect themselves . 
It is the natural disposition of everyone to get all that he can . 
Little children , for instance , always try to take away from others that which they want , and to keep it for their own . 
It is only by constant teaching that they learn that they must not do so that they must not take by force what does not belong to them . 
So it is only by teaching and training that people learn to be honest and not to take what is not theirs . 
The usual means of commerce between province and province was by water in coasting vessels . 
Each province in those days was ruled over by a royal governor appointed by the king . 
Each governor , at one time , was free to do almost as he pleased in his own province . 
He was accountable only to the king and his government , and England was so distant that he was really responsible almost to nobody but himself . 
After the things the pirates seized from merchant vessels were once stolen they were altogether lost . 
Almost never did any owner apply for them , for it would be useless to do so . 
The stolen goods and merchandise lay in the storehouses of the pirates , seemingly without any owner excepting the pirates themselves . 
It did not even seem very wicked to compel such pirates to give up a part of what was not theirs , and which seemed to have no owner . 
It was these two colonies that suffered the most from Blackbeard , and it began to be that the honest men that lived in them could endure no longer to be plundered . 
The merchants and traders and others who suffered cried out loudly for protection , so loudly that the governors of these provinces could not help hearing them . 
It was all a part of the rude and lawless condition of the colonies at the time that such a thing could have been done . 
The governor's proclamation against the pirates was issued upon the eleventh day of November . 
It was read in the churches the Sunday following and was posted upon the doors of all the government custom offices in lower Virginia . 
Lieutenant Maynard , in the boats that Colonel Parker had already fitted out to go against the pirates , set sail upon the seventeenth of the month for Ocracoke . 
Five days later the battle was fought . 
Blackbeard's sloop was lying inside of Ocracoke Inlet among the shoals and sand bars when he first heard of Governor Spottiswood's proclamation . 
There had been a storm , and a good many vessels had run into the inlet for shelter . 
Blackbeard knew nearly all of the captains of these vessels , and it was from them that he first heard of the proclamation . 
He had gone aboard one of the vessels a coaster from Boston . 
The wind was still blowing pretty hard from the southeast . 
There were maybe a dozen vessels lying within the inlet at that time , and the captain of one of them was paying the Boston skipper a visit when Blackbeard came aboard . 
The two captains had been talking together . 
They instantly ceased when the pirate came down into the cabin , but he had heard enough of their conversation to catch its drift . 
Why d'ye stop ? he said . 
I heard what you said . 
Well , what then ? D'ye think I mind it at all ? Spottiswood is going to send his bullies down here after me . 
That's what you were saying . 
Captain Burley the Boston man laughed a loud , forced laugh . 
Why , Captain , he said , as for two or three kegs of Hollands , you won't find that aboard . 
But if you'd like to have a keg of it for your own drinking , I'll send it to you and be glad enough to do so for old acquaintance' sake . 
But I tell you what 'tis , Captain , said the visiting skipper to Blackbeard , they're determined and set against you this time . 
I tell you , Captain , Governor Spottiswood hath issued a hot proclamation against you , and 't hath been read out in all the churches . 
I myself saw it posted in Yorktown upon the customhouse door and read it there myself . 
The governor offers one hundred pounds for you , and fifty pounds for your officers , and twenty pounds each for your men . 
As for the Hollands , said he , turning to Captain Burley , I know what you've got aboard here and what you haven't . 
D'ye suppose ye can blind me ? Very well , you send over two kegs , and I'll let you go without search . 
The two captains were very silent . 
As for that Lieutenant Maynard you're all talking about , said Blackbeard , why , I know him very well . 
He was the one who was so busy with the pirates down Madagascar way . 
I believe you'd all like to see him blow me out of the water , but he can't do it . 
There's nobody in His Majesty's service I'd rather meet than Lieutenant Maynard . 
I'd teach him pretty briskly that North Carolina isn't Madagascar . 
On the evening of the twenty second the two vessels under command of Lieutenant Maynard came into the mouth of Ocracoke Inlet and there dropped anchor . 
Meantime the weather had cleared , and all the vessels but one had gone from the inlet . 
The one vessel that remained was a New Yorker . 
It had been there over a night and a day , and the captain and Blackbeard had become very good friends . 
The same night that Maynard came into the inlet a wedding was held on the shore . 
A number of men and women came up the beach in oxcarts and sledges others had come in boats from more distant points and across the water . 
The captain of the New Yorker and Blackbeard went ashore together a little after dark . 
The New Yorker had been aboard of the pirate's sloop for all the latter part of the afternoon , and he and Blackbeard had been drinking together in the cabin . 
The New York man was now a little tipsy , and he laughed and talked foolishly as he and Blackbeard were rowed ashore . 
The pirate sat grim and silent . 
It was nearly dark when they stepped ashore on the beach . 
The New York captain stumbled and fell headlong , rolling over and over , and the crew of the boat burst out laughing . 
The people had already begun to dance in an open shed fronting upon the shore . 
There were fires of pine knots in front of the building , lighting up the interior with a red glare . 
A negro was playing a fiddle somewhere inside , and the shed was filled with a crowd of grotesque dancing figures men and women . 
Now and then they called with loud voices as they danced , and the squeaking of the fiddle sounded incessantly through the noise of outcries and the stamp and shuffling of feet . 
Captain Teach and the New York captain stood looking on . 
The New York man had tilted himself against a post and stood there holding one arm around it , supporting himself . 
He waved the other hand foolishly in time to the music , now and then snapping his thumb and finger . 
The young woman who had just been married approached the two . 
She had been dancing , and she was warm and red , her hair blowzed about her head . 
Hi , Captain , won't you dance with me ? she said to Blackbeard . 
Who be you ? he said . 
You look as if you'd eat a body , she cried . 
Why , to be sure , you're a brazen one , for all the world , he said . 
Well , I'll dance with you , that I will . 
I'll dance the heart out of you . 
He pushed forward , thrusting aside with his elbow the newly made husband . 
One could see the negro now he sat on a barrel at the end of the room . 
He grinned with his white teeth and , without stopping in his fiddling , scraped his bow harshly across the strings , and then instantly changed the tune to a lively jig . 
Blackbeard jumped up into the air and clapped his heels together , giving , as he did so , a sharp , short yell . 
Then he began instantly dancing grotesquely and violently . 
The woman danced opposite to him , this way and that , with her knuckles on her hips . 
Everybody burst out laughing at Blackbeard's grotesque antics . 
They laughed again and again , clapping their hands , and the negro scraped away on his fiddle like fury . 
The woman's hair came tumbling down her back . 
She tucked it back , laughing and panting , and the sweat ran down her face . 
At last she burst out laughing and stopped , panting . 
Blackbeard again jumped up in the air and clapped his heels . 
Again he yelled , and as he did so , he struck his heels upon the floor and spun around . 
Once more everybody burst out laughing , clapping their hands , and the negro stopped fiddling . 
Near by was a shanty or cabin where they were selling spirits , and by and by Blackbeard went there with the New York captain , and presently they began drinking again . 
Hi , Captain ! called one of the men , Maynard's out yonder in the inlet . 
Jack Bishop's just come across from t'other side . 
He says Mr. Maynard hailed him and asked for a pilot to fetch him in . 
Well , here's luck to him , and he can't come in quick enough for me ! cried out Blackbeard in his hoarse , husky voice . 
'Twon't be fit for him to live in these parts of America if I am living here at the same time . 
There was a burst of laughter . 
The men ducked and scrambled away from before him , and then the next moment he had the pistol out of his pocket . 
He swung it around and around . 
Suddenly there was a flash and a stunning report , and instantly a crash and tinkle of broken glass . 
One of the men cried out , and began picking and jerking at the back of his neck . 
He's broken that bottle all down my neck , he called out . 
That's the way 'twill be , said Blackbeard . 
Lookee , said the owner of the place , I won't serve out another drop if 'tis going to be like that . 
If there's any more trouble I'll blow out the lantern . 
The sound of the squeaking and scraping of the fiddle and the shouts and the scuffling feet still came from the shed where the dancing was going on . 
Your wife'll be a rich widdy then , won't she ? cried one of the men and there was a burst of laughter . 
She knows where you've hid your money , anyways . 
Don't she , Captain ? called out a voice . 
The civil knows where I've hid my money , said Blackbeard , and I know where I've hid it and the longest liver of the twain will git it all . 
And that's all there is of it . 
The gray of early day was beginning to show in the east when Blackbeard and the New York captain came down to the landing together . 
The New York captain swayed and toppled this way and that as he walked , now falling against Blackbeard , and now staggering away from him . 
II Early in the morning perhaps eight o'clock Lieutenant Maynard sent a boat from the schooner over to the settlement , which lay some four or five miles distant . 
A number of men stood lounging on the landing , watching the approach of the boat . 
Nobody answered , but all stared stupidly at him . 
After a while one of the men at last took his pipe out of his mouth . 
There ben't any pilot here , master , said he we ben't pilots . 
Why , what a story you do tell ! roared the boatswain . 
D'ye suppose I've never been down here before , not to know that every man about here knows the passes of the shoals ? The fellow still held his pipe in his hand . 
He looked at another one of the men . 
Do you know the passes in over the shoals , Jem ? said he . 
The man to whom he spoke was a young fellow with long , shaggy , sunburnt hair hanging over his eyes in an unkempt mass . 
He shook his head , grunting , Na I don't know naught about t' shoals . 
'Tis Lieutenant Maynard of His Majesty's navy in command of them vessels out there , said the boatswain . 
He'll give any man five pound to pilot him in . 
The men on the wharf looked at one another , but still no one spoke , and the boatswain stood looking at them . 
He saw that they did not choose to answer him . 
Why , he said , I believe you've not got right wits that's what I believe is the matter with you . 
After the boatswain had gone ashore the loungers still stood on the wharf , looking down into the boat , and began talking to one another for the men below to hear them . 
They're coming in , said one , to blow poor Blackbeard out of the water . 
Aye , said another , he's so peaceable , too , he is he'll just lay still and let 'em blow and blow , he will . 
There's a young fellow there , said another of the men he don't look fit to die yet , he don't . 
Why , I wouldn't be in his place for a thousand pound . 
I do suppose Blackbeard's so afraid he don't know how to see , said the first speaker . 
At last one of the men in the boat spoke up . 
Maybe he don't know how to see , said he , but maybe we'll blow some daylight into him afore we get through with him . 
What do them Virginny 'baccy eaters do down here in Caroliny , anyway ? said one of the newcomers . 
They've got no call to be down here in North Caroliny waters . 
Maybe you can keep us away from coming , and maybe you can't , said a voice from the boat . 
Why , answered the man on the wharf , we could keep you away easy enough , but you ben't worth the trouble , and that's the truth . 
There was a heavy iron bolt lying near the edge of the landing . 
One of the men upon the wharf slyly thrust it out with the end of his foot . 
It hung for a moment and then fell into the boat below with a crash . 
What d'ye mean by that ? roared the man in charge of the boat . 
The men on the wharf began laughing . 
Just then the boatswain came down from the settlement again , and out along the landing . 
The threatened turbulence quieted as he approached , and the crowd moved sullenly aside to let him pass . 
He did not bring any pilot with him , and he jumped down into the stern of the boat , saying , briefly , Push off . 
The crowd of loungers stood looking after them as they rowed away , and when the boat was some distance from the landing they burst out into a volley of derisive yells . 
The villains ! said the boatswain , they are all in league together . 
They wouldn't even let me go up into the settlement to look for a pilot . 
The lieutenant and his sailing master stood watching the boat as it approached . 
Couldn't you , then , get a pilot , Baldwin ? said Mr. Maynard , as the boatswain scrambled aboard . 
No , I couldn't , sir , said the man . 
Either they're all banded together , or else they're all afraid of the villains . 
They wouldn't even let me go up into the settlement to find one . 
Well , then , said Mr. Maynard , we'll make shift to work in as best we may by ourselves . 
'Twill be high tide against one o'clock . 
We'll run in then with sail as far as we can , and then we'll send you ahead with the boat to sound for a pass , and we'll follow with the sweeps . 
You know the waters pretty well , you say . 
They were saying ashore that the villain hath forty men aboard , said the boatswain . 
The pirate captain had really only twenty five men aboard of his ship at the time of the battle . 
Lieutenant Maynard's force consisted of thirty five men in the schooner and twenty five men in the sloop . 
He carried neither cannons nor carronades , and neither of his vessels was very well fitted for the purpose for which they were designed . 
The schooner , which he himself commanded , offered almost no protection to the crew . 
The rail was not more than a foot high in the waist , and the men on the deck were almost entirely exposed . 
The rail of the sloop was perhaps a little higher , but it , too , was hardly better adapted for fighting . 
Indeed , the lieutenant depended more upon the moral force of official authority to overawe the pirates than upon any real force of arms or men . 
He never believed , until the very last moment , that the pirates would show any real fight . 
It was about noon when anchor was hoisted , and , with the schooner leading , both vessels ran slowly in before a light wind that had begun to blow toward midday . 
In each vessel a man stood in the bows , sounding continually with lead and line . 
As they slowly opened up the harbor within the inlet , they could see the pirate sloop lying about three miles away . 
There was a boat just putting off from it to the shore . 
The lieutenant and his sailing master stood together on the roof of the cabin deckhouse . 
The sailing master held a glass to his eye . 
She carries a long gun , sir , he said , and four carronades . 
She'll be hard to beat , sir , I do suppose , armed as we are with only light arms for close fighting . 
Why , Brookes , he said , you seem to think forever of these men showing fight . 
You don't know them as I know them . 
They have a deal of bluster and make a deal of noise , but when you seize them and hold them with a strong hand , there's naught of fight left in them . 
'Tis like enough there'll not be so much as a musket fired to day . 
I've had to do with 'em often enough before to know my gentlemen well by this time . 
Nor , as was said , was it until the very last that the lieutenant could be brought to believe that the pirates had any stomach for a fight . 
The two vessels had reached perhaps within a mile of the pirate sloop before they found the water too shoal to venture any farther with the sail . 
The pirate had also hoisted sail , but lay as though waiting for the approach of the schooner and the sloop . 
Suddenly there was a puff of smoke from the pirate sloop , and then another and another , and the next moment there came the three reports of muskets up the wind . 
By zounds ! said the lieutenant . 
I do believe they're firing on the boat ! And then he saw the boat turn and begin pulling toward them . 
The boat with the boatswain aboard came rowing rapidly . 
Again there were three or four puffs of smoke and three or four subsequent reports from the distant vessel . 
Then , in a little while , the boat was alongside , and the boatswain came scrambling aboard . 
Never mind hoisting the boat , said the lieutenant we'll just take her in tow . 
Come aboard as quick as you can . 
Then , turning to the sailing master , Well , Brookes , you'll have to do the best you can to get in over the shoals under half sail . 
But , sir , said the master , we'll be sure to run aground . 
Very well , sir , said the lieutenant , you heard my orders . 
If we run aground we run aground , and that's all there is of it . 
I sounded as far as maybe a little over a fathom , said the mate , but the villains would let me go no nearer . 
I think I was in the channel , though . 
'Tis more open inside , as I mind me of it . 
There's a kind of a hole there , and if we get in over the shoals just beyond where I was we'll be all right . 
Very well , then , you take the wheel , Baldwin , said the lieutenant , and do the best you can for us . 
Lieutenant Maynard stood looking out forward at the pirate vessel , which they were now steadily nearing under half sail . 
He could see that there were signs of bustle aboard and of men running around upon the deck . 
Then he walked aft and around the cabin . 
The sloop was some distance astern . 
It appeared to have run aground , and they were trying to push it off with the sweeps . 
The lieutenant looked down into the water over the stern , and saw that the schooner was already raising the mud in her wane . 
Then he went forward along the deck . 
His men were crouching down along by the low rail , and there was a tense quietness of expectation about them . 
The lieutenant looked them over as he passed them . 
Johnson , he said , do you take the lead and line and go forward and sound a bit . 
If any man offers to resist you , shoot him down . 
Are you ready , Mr. Cringle ? Aye , aye , sir , said the gunner . 
Very well , then , be ready , men we'll be aboard 'em in a minute or two . 
There's less than a fathom of water here , sir , sang out Johnson from the bows . 
As he spoke there was a sudden soft jar and jerk , then the schooner was still . 
Push her off to the lee there ! Let go your sheets ! roared the boatswain from the wheel . 
Push her off to the lee . 
He spun the wheel around as he spoke . 
A half a dozen men sprang up , seized the sweeps , and plunged them into the water . 
Others ran to help them , but the sweeps only sank into the mud without moving the schooner . 
The sails had fallen off and they were flapping and thumping and clapping in the wind . 
Others of the crew had scrambled to their feet and ran to help those at the sweeps . 
The lieutenant had walked quickly aft again . 
They were very close now to the pirate sloop , and suddenly some one hailed him from aboard of her . 
When he turned he saw that there was a man standing up on the rail of the pirate sloop , holding by the back stays . 
And he looked with great interest at the distant figure . 
The pirate stood out boldly against the cloudy sky . 
Somebody seemed to speak to him from behind . 
He turned his head and then he turned round again . 
We're only peaceful merchantmen ! he called out . 
What authority have you got to come down upon us this way ? If you'll come aboard I'll show you my papers and that we're only peaceful merchantmen . 
The villains ! said the lieutenant to the master , who stood beside him . 
If you undertake to come aboard of me , called the pirate , I'll shoot into you . 
You've got no authority to board me , and I won't have you do it . 
If you undertake it 'twill be at your own risk , for I'll neither ask quarter of you nor give none . 
Very well , said the lieutenant , if you choose to try that , you may do as you please for I'm coming aboard of you as sure as heaven . 
Push off the bow there ! called the boatswain at the wheel . 
Look alive ! Why don't you push off the bow ? She's hard aground ! answered the gunner . 
We can't budge her an inch . 
If they was to fire into us now , said the sailing master , they'd smash us to pieces . 
They won't fire into us , said the lieutenant . 
He jumped down from the cabin deckhouse as he spoke , and went forward to urge the men in pushing off the boat . 
It was already beginning to move . 
There were clean yellow splinters flying everywhere . 
A man fell violently against the lieutenant , nearly overturning him , but he caught at the stays and so saved himself . 
For one tense moment he stood holding his breath . 
Then all about him arose a sudden outcry of groans and shouts and oaths . 
The man who had fallen against him was lying face down upon the deck . 
His thighs were quivering , and a pool of blood was spreading and running out from under him . 
There were other men down , all about the deck . 
Some were rising some were trying to rise some only moved . 
There was a distant sound of yelling and cheering and shouting . 
It was from the pirate sloop . 
The pirates were rushing about upon her decks . 
The low rail afforded almost no shelter against such a broadside , and there was nothing for it but to order all hands below for the time being . 
Get below ! roared out the lieutenant . 
The boatswain , crouching down close to the wheel , and the lieutenant himself were the only others upon deck . 
Everywhere there were smears and sprinkles of blood . 
Where's Brookes ? the lieutenant called out . 
He's hurt in the arm , sir , and he's gone below , said the boatswain . 
The lieutenant still crouched down under the rail , looking out at them . 
Suddenly , a little distance away , she came about , broadside on , and then drifted . 
She was close aboard now . 
Something came flying through the air another and another . 
One of them broke with a crash upon the deck . 
The others rolled over to the farther rail . 
In each of them a quick match was smoking . 
Almost instantly there was a flash and a terrific report , and the air was full of the whiz and singing of broken particles of glass and iron . 
There was another report , and then the whole air seemed full of gunpowder smoke . 
Behind him the men were coming , swarming up from below . 
There was a sudden stunning report of a pistol , and then another and another , almost together . 
There was a groan and the fall of a heavy body , and then a figure came jumping over the rail , with two or three more directly following . 
The lieutenant was in the midst of the gun powder smoke , when suddenly Blackbeard was before him . 
The pirate captain had stripped himself naked to the waist . 
His shaggy black hair was falling over his eyes , and he looked like a demon fresh from the pit , with his frantic face . 
Almost with the blindness of instinct the lieutenant thrust out his pistol , firing it as he did so . 
The pirate staggered back he was down no he was up again . 
He had a pistol in each hand but there was a stream of blood running down his naked ribs . 
Suddenly , the mouth of a pistol was pointing straight at the lieutenant's head . 
He ducked instinctively , striking upward with his cutlass as he did so . 
There was a stunning , deafening report almost in his ear . 
He struck again blindly with his cutlass . 
He saw the flash of a sword and flung up his guard almost instinctively , meeting the crash of the descending blade . 
Somebody shot from behind him , and at the same moment he saw some one else strike the pirate . 
Blackbeard staggered again , and this time there was a great gash upon his neck . 
Then one of Maynard's own men tumbled headlong upon him . 
His hand was smarting as though struck with the lash of a whip . 
He looked around him the pirate captain was nowhere to be seen yes , there he was , lying by the rail . 
Suddenly his other elbow gave way and he fell down upon his face . 
He tried to raise himself he fell down again . 
There was a report and a cloud of smoke , and when it cleared away Blackbeard had staggered up again . 
He was a terrible figure his head nodding down upon his breast . 
Somebody shot again , and then the swaying figure toppled and fell . 
It lay still for a moment then rolled over then lay still again . 
There was a loud splash of men jumping overboard , and then , almost instantly , the cry of Quarter ! quarter ! The lieutenant ran to the edge of the vessel . 
It was as he had thought the grappling irons of the pirate sloop had parted , and it had drifted away . 
The few pirates who had been left aboard of the schooner had jumped overboard and were now holding up their hands . 
Don't shoot ! quarter ! And the fight was over . 
He went aft , holding the wrist of his wounded hand . 
The boatswain was still at the wheel . 
By zounds ! said the lieutenant , with a nervous , quavering laugh , I didn't know there was such fight in the villains . 
His wounded and shattered sloop was again coming up toward him under sail , but the pirates had surrendered , and the fight was over . 
Lewes is a queer , odd , old fashioned little town , smelling fragrant of salt marsh and sea breeze . 
It is rarely visited by strangers . 
Of such is the story of Blueskin , the pirate . 
For some time for three or four years rumors and reports of Blueskin's doings in the West Indies and off the Carolinas had been brought in now and then by sea captains . 
There was no more cruel , bloody , desperate , devilish pirate than he in all those pirate infested waters . 
But one day a schooner came drifting into Lewes harbor shattered , wounded , her forecastle splintered , her foremast shot half away , and three great tattered holes in her mainsail . 
The mate with one of the crew came ashore in the boat for help and a doctor . 
He reported that the captain and the cook were dead and there were three wounded men aboard . 
The story he told to the gathering crowd brought a very peculiar thrill to those who heard it . 
, and the pirates had come aboard of them but , finding that the cargo of the schooner consisted only of cypress shingles and lumber , had soon quitted their prize . 
Such was the mate's story . 
It spread like wildfire , and in half an hour all the town was in a ferment . 
But Blueskin did not come that day , nor did he come the next or the next . 
But on the afternoon of the third the news went suddenly flying over the town that the pirates were inside the capes . 
Two vessels , one bark rigged , the other and smaller a sloop , were slowly creeping up the bay , a couple of miles or so away and just inside the cape . 
There appeared nothing remarkable about the two crafts , but the little crowd that continued gathering upon the green stood looking out across the bay at them none the less anxiously for that . 
They were sailing close hauled to the wind , the sloop following in the wake of her consort as the pilot fish follows in the wake of the shark . 
The bloody villains have gone ! said old Captain Wolfe , shutting his telescope with a click . 
But Lewes was not yet quit of Blueskin . 
It was while the excitement over the pirates was at its highest fever heat that Levi West came home again . 
Hiram White was only twenty seven years old , but he was already in local repute as a character . 
Now that he was grown to the ripeness of manhood he was still looked upon as being to use a quaint expression slack , or not jest right . 
He was heavy , awkward , ungainly and loose jointed , and enormously , prodigiously strong . 
He had a lumpish , thick featured face , with lips heavy and loosely hanging , that gave him an air of stupidity , half droll , half pathetic . 
His little eyes were set far apart and flat with his face , his eyebrows were nearly white and his hair was of a sandy , colorless kind . 
He was singularly taciturn , lisping thickly when he did talk , and stuttering and hesitating in his speech , as though his words moved faster than his mind could follow . 
Perhaps Squire Hall was the only one in Lewes Hundred who misdoubted that Hiram was half witted . 
He had had dealings with him and was wont to say that whoever bought Hiram White for a fool made a fool's bargain . 
No doubt , had it come to the pinch , he might have bought some of his tormentors out three times over . 
Hiram White had suffered quite a financial loss some six months before , through that very Blueskin who was now lurking in Indian River inlet . 
He had entered into a venture with Josiah Shippin , a Philadelphia merchant , to the tune of seven hundred pounds sterling . 
The money had been invested in a cargo of flour and corn meal which had been shipped to Jamaica by the bark Nancy Lee . 
Five hundred of the seven hundred pounds invested in the unfortunate venture was money bequeathed by Hiram's father , seven years before , to Levi West . 
Eleazer White had been twice married , the second time to the widow West . 
He was a shrewd , quick witted lad , idle , shiftless , willful , ill trained perhaps , but as bright and keen as a pin . 
He was the very opposite to poor , dull Hiram . 
Eleazer White had never loved his son he was ashamed of the poor , slack witted oaf . 
He tried to train the lad to work in the mill , and was patient beyond what the patience of most fathers would have been with his stepson's idleness and shiftlessness . 
Never mind , he was used to say . 
Levi's as bright as a button . 
It was one of the greatest blows of the old miller's life when Levi ran away to sea . 
In his last sickness the old man's mind constantly turned to his lost stepson . 
Mebby he'll come back again , said he , and if he does I want you to be good to him , Hiram . 
And Hiram had promised to do as his father asked . 
After Eleazer died it was found that he had bequeathed five hundred pounds to his beloved stepson , Levi West , and had left Squire Hall as trustee . 
Levi West had been gone nearly nine years and not a word had been heard from him there could be little or no doubt that he was dead . 
One day Hiram came into Squire Hall's office with a letter in his hand . 
It was the time of the old French war , and flour and corn meal were fetching fabulous prices in the British West Indies . 
The letter Hiram brought with him was from a Philadelphia merchant , Josiah Shippin , with whom he had had some dealings . 
Mr. Shippin proposed that Hiram should join him in sending a venture of flour and corn meal to Kingston , Jamaica . 
Hiram had slept upon the letter overnight and now he brought it to the old Squire . 
Squire Hall read the letter , shaking his head the while . 
Too much risk , Hiram ! said he . 
Mr Shippin wouldn't have asked you to go into this venture if he could have got anybody else to do so . 
My advice is that you let it alone . 
I reckon you've come to me for advice ? Hiram shook his head . 
Ye haven't ? What have ye come for , then ? Seven hundred pounds , said Hiram . 
Seven hundred pounds ! said Squire Hall . 
I haven't got seven hundred pounds to lend you , Hiram . 
Five hundred been left to Levi I got hundred raise hundred more on mortgage , said Hiram . 
Tut , tut , Hiram , said Squire Hall , that'll never do in the world . 
Suppose Levi West should come back again , what then ? I'm responsible for that money . 
Mebby he is , said Squire Hall , but we don't know that . 
I'll give bond for security , said Hiram . 
Squire Hall thought for a while in silence . 
Very well , Hiram , said he by and by , if you'll do that . 
Your father left the money , and I don't see that it's right for me to stay his son from using it . 
But if it is lost , Hiram , and if Levi should come back , it will go well to ruin ye . 
So Hiram White invested seven hundred pounds in the Jamaica venture and every farthing of it was burned by Blueskin , off Currituck Sound . 
Twice a week , rain or shine , Hiram White never failed to scrape his feet upon Billy Martin's doorstep . 
Twice a week , on Sundays and Thursdays , he never failed to take his customary seat by the kitchen fire . 
It sometimes happened that she had other company some of the young men of the neighborhood . 
Never , perhaps , was there a girl in the world had such a lover and such a courtship as Sally Martin . 
Hiram White sat by the dim light of a tallow dip , poring laboriously over some account books . 
It was not quite seven o'clock , and he never started for Billy Martin's before that hour . 
Then came the sound of a basket of corncobs being emptied on the smoldering blaze and then the snapping and crackling of the reanimated fire . 
At last he closed the books with a snap and , smoothing down his hair , arose , took up the candle , and passed out of the room into the kitchen beyond . 
A man was sitting in front of the corncob fire that flamed and blazed in the great , gaping , sooty fireplace . 
A rough overcoat was flung over the chair behind him and his hands were spread out to the roaring warmth . 
At the sound of the lifted latch and of Hiram's entrance he turned his head , and when Hiram saw his face he stood suddenly still as though turned to stone . 
The face , marvelously altered and changed as it was , was the face of his stepbrother , Levi West . 
He was not dead he had come home again . 
For a time not a sound broke the dead , unbroken silence excepting the crackling of the blaze in the fireplace and the sharp ticking of the tall clock in the corner . 
Then suddenly that face cracked , broadened , spread to a grin . 
I have come back again , Hi , said Levi , and at the sound of the words the speechless spell was broken . 
His dull little eyes never moved from his stepbrother's face . 
There was no curiosity in his expression , no surprise , no wonder . 
The heavy under lip dropped a little farther open and there was snore than usual of dull , expressionless stupidity upon the lumpish face but that was all . 
That Levi West had been a rough , careless , happy go lucky fellow thoughtless and selfish , but with nothing essentially evil or sinister in his nature . 
The Levi West that now sat in a rush bottom chair at the other side of the fireplace had that stamped upon his front that might be both evil and sinister . 
His swart complexion was tanned to an Indian copper . 
This discoloration was of a livid blue , about the tint of a tattoo mark . 
It made a patch the size of a man's hand , lying across the cheek and the side of the neck . 
Hiram could not keep his eyes from this mark and the white scar cutting across it . 
He wore a coat that had once been of fine plum color now stained and faded too small for his lean length , and furbished with tarnished lace . 
The hair at either temple was twisted into a Spanish curl , plastered flat to the cheek , and a plaited queue hung halfway down his back . 
Hiram , speaking never a word , sat motionless , his dull little eyes traveling slowly up and down and around and around his stepbrother's person . 
Levi did not seem to notice his scrutiny , leaning forward , now with his palms spread out to the grateful warmth , now rubbing them slowly together . 
But at last he suddenly whirled his chair around , rasping on the floor , and faced his stepbrother . 
He thrust his hand into his capacious coat pocket and brought out a pipe which he proceeded to fill from a skin of tobacco . 
Well , Hi , said he , d'ye see I've come back home again ? Thought you was dead , said Hiram , dully . 
Levi laughed , then he drew a red hot coal out of the fire , put it upon the bowl of the pipe and began puffing out clouds of pungent smoke . 
Nay , nay , said he not dead not dead by odds . 
But puff by the Eternal Holy , Hi , I played many a close game puff with old Davy Jones , for all that . 
Hiram's look turned inquiringly toward the jagged scar and Levi caught the slow glance . 
You're lookin' at this , said he , running his finger down the crooked seam . 
That looks bad , but it wasn't so close as this laying his hand for a moment upon the livid stain . 
A cooly devil off Singapore gave me that cut when we fell foul of an opium junk in the China Sea four years ago last September . 
This , touching the disfiguring blue patch again , was a closer miss , Hi . 
A Spanish captain fired a pistol at me down off Santa Catharina . 
He was so nigh that the powder went under the skin and it'll never come out again . 
his eyes he had better have fired the pistol into his own head that morning . 
I reckon I'm changed , ain't I , Hi ? He took his pipe out of his mouth and looked inquiringly at Hiram , who nodded . 
Devil doubt it , said he , but whether I'm changed or no , I'll take my affidavy that you are the same old half witted Hi that you used to be . 
I remember dad used to say that you hadn't no more than enough wits to keep you out of the rain . 
And , talking of dad , Hi , I hearn tell he's been dead now these nine years gone . 
D'ye know what I've come home for ? Hiram shook his head . 
I've come for that five hundred pounds that dad left me when he died , for I hearn tell of that , too . 
Hiram sat quite still for a second or two and then he said , I put that money out to venture and lost it all . 
Levi's face fell and he took his pipe out of his mouth , regarding Hiram sharply and keenly . 
What d'ye mean ? said he presently . 
I thought you was dead and I put seven hundred pounds into Nancy Lee and Blueskin burned her off Currituck Burned her off Currituck ! repeated Levi . 
Then suddenly a light seemed to break upon his comprehension . 
Burned by Blueskin ! he repeated , and thereupon flung himself back in his chair and burst into a short , boisterous fit of laughter . 
Well , by the Holy Eternal , Hi , if that isn't a piece of your tarnal luck . 
Burned by Blueskin , was it ? He paused for a moment , as though turning it over in his mind . 
All the same , said he presently , d'ye see , I can't suffer for Blueskin's doings . 
The money was willed to me , fair and true , and you have got to pay it , Hiram White , burn or sink , Blueskin or no Blueskin . 
Again he puffed for a moment or two in reflective silence . 
All the same , Hi , said he , once more resuming the thread of talk , I don't reckon to be too hard on you . 
You be only half witted , anyway , and I sha'n't be too hard on you . 
I give you a month to raise that money , and while you're doing it I'll jest hang around here . 
I've been in trouble , Hi , d'ye see . 
I'm under a cloud and so I want to keep here , as quiet as may be . 
I'll tell ye how it came about I had a set to with a land pirate in Philadelphia , and somebody got hurt . 
That's the reason I'm here now , and don't you say anything about it . 
Do you understand ? Hiram opened his lips as though it was his intent to answer , then seemed to think better of it and contented himself by nodding his head . 
That Thursday night was the first for a six month that Hiram White did not scrape his feet clean at Billy Martin's doorstep . 
Nevertheless , he was none the less popular in the barroom of the tavern and at the country store , where he was always the center of a group of loungers . 
He told of many adventures in which Blueskin figured and was then always listened to with more than usual gaping interest . 
As for Blueskin , the quiet way in which the pirates conducted themselves at Indian River almost made the Lewes folk forget what he could do when the occasion called . 
They almost ceased to remember that poor shattered schooner that had crawled with its ghastly dead and groaning wounded into the harbor a couple of weeks since . 
But if for a while they forgot who or what Blueskin was , it was not for long . 
One day a bark from Bristol , bound for Cuba and laden with a valuable cargo of cloth stuffs and silks , put into Lewes harbor to take in water . 
The captain himself came ashore and was at the tavern for two or three hours . 
It happened that Levi was there and that the talk was of Blueskin . 
The English captain , a grizzled old sea dog , listened to Levi's yarns with not a little contempt . 
He had , he said , sailed in the China Sea and the Indian Ocean too long to be afraid of any hog eating Yankee pirate such as this Blueskin . 
All the same , my hearty , said he , if I was you I'd give Blueskin a wide berth . 
I hear that he's cleaned the vessel that was careened awhile ago , and mebby he'll give you a little trouble if you come too nigh him . 
To this the Englishman only answered that Blueskin might be , and that the next afternoon , wind and weather permitting , he intended to heave anchor and run out to sea . 
The excitement over this terrible happening had only begun to subside when another occurred to cap it . 
One afternoon a ship's boat , in which were five men and two women , came rowing into Lewes harbor . 
It was the longboat of the Charleston packet , bound for New York , and was commanded by the first mate . 
The packet had been attacked and captured by the pirates about ten leagues south by east of Cape Henlopen . 
The pirates had come aboard of them at night and no resistance had been offered . 
Perhaps it was that circumstance that saved the lives of all , for no murder or violence had been done . 
Nevertheless , officers , passengers and crew had been stripped of everything of value and set adrift in the boats and the ship herself had been burned . 
The longboat had become separated from the others during the night and had sighted Henlopen a little after sunrise . 
It may be here said that Squire Hall made out a report of these two occurrences and sent it up to Philadelphia by the mate of the packet . 
But for some reason it was nearly four weeks before a sloop of war was sent around from New York . 
VII Levi had told the English captain that he was going up country to visit one of his lady friends . 
He was gone nearly two weeks . 
Then once more he appeared , as suddenly , as unexpectedly , as he had done when he first returned to Lewes . 
Hiram was sitting at supper when the door opened and Levi walked in , hanging up his hat behind the door as unconcernedly as though he had only been gone an hour . 
His coming seemed to have taken away all of Hiram's appetite . 
He pushed away his plate and sat staring at his stepbrother , who presently fell to at the bacon and eggs like a famished wolf . 
Not a word was said until Levi had ended his meal and filled his pipe . 
Look'ee , Hiram , said he , as he stooped over the fire and raked out a hot coal . 
Look'ee , Hiram ! I've been to Philadelphia , d'ye see , a settlin' up that trouble I told you about when I first come home . 
D'ye understand ? D'ye remember ? D'ye get it through your skull ? He looked around over his shoulder , waiting as though for an answer . 
But getting none , he continued I expect two gentlemen here from Philadelphia to night . 
They're friends of mine and are coming to talk over the business and ye needn't stay at home , Hi . 
You can go out somewhere , d'ye understand ? And then he added with a grin , Ye can go to see Sally . 
Hiram pushed back his chair and arose . 
He leaned with his back against the side of the fireplace . 
I'll stay at home , said he presently . 
But I don't want you to stay at home , Hi , said Levi . 
We'll have to talk business and I want you to go ! I'll stay at home , said Hiram again . 
Levi's brow grew as black as thunder . 
He ground his teeth together and for a moment or two it seemed as though an explosion was coming . 
But he swallowed his passion with a gulp . 
You're a pig headed , half witted fool , said he . 
Hiram never so much as moved his eyes . 
Don't you come nigh this kitchen again till I tell ye to . 
If I catch you pryin' around may I be , eyes and liver , if I don't cut your heart out . 
In about half an hour Levi's friends came the first a little , thin , wizened man with a very foreign look . 
He was dressed in a rusty black suit and wore gray yarn stockings and shoes with brass buckles . 
The other was also plainly a foreigner . 
He was dressed in sailor fashion , with petticoat breeches of duck , a heavy pea jacket , and thick boots , reaching to the knees . 
He wore a red sash tied around his waist , and once , as he pushed back his coat , Hiram saw the glitter of a pistol butt . 
He was a powerful , thickset man , low browed and bull necked , his cheek , and chin , and throat closely covered with a stubble of blue black beard . 
He wore a red kerchief tied around his head and over it a cocked hat , edged with tarnished gilt braid . 
Levi himself opened the door to them . 
He exchanged a few words outside with his visitors , in a foreign language of which Hiram understood nothing . 
Levi drew to the shutters , shot the bolt in the outer door , and tilted a chair against the latch of the one that led from the kitchen into the adjoining room . 
The confabulation was conducted throughout in the same foreign language which Levi had used when first speaking to them a language quite unintelligible to Hiram's ears . 
Now and then the murmur of talk would rise loud and harsh over some disputed point now and then it would sink away to whispers . 
Suddenly the talk came to an end , the three heads separated and the three chairs were pushed back , grating harshly . 
Levi rose , went to the closet and brought thence a bottle of Hiram's apple brandy , as coolly as though it belonged to himself . 
He set three tumblers and a crock of water upon the table and each helped himself liberally . 
As the two visitors departed down the road , Levi stood for a while at the open door , looking after the dusky figures until they were swallowed in the darkness . 
VIII This time of Levi West's unwelcome visitation was indeed a time of bitter trouble and tribulation to poor Hiram White . 
It was a desperate struggle for Hiram to raise the amount of his father's bequest to his stepbrother . 
He would , he said , do all he could to help Hiram , but that five hundred pounds must and should be raised Hiram must release his security bond . 
He would loan him , he said , three hundred pounds , taking a mortgage upon the mill . 
Hiram had a considerable quantity of wheat which he had bought upon speculation and which was then lying idle in a Philadelphia storehouse . 
This he had sold at public sale and at a very great sacrifice he realized barely one hundred pounds upon it . 
The financial horizon looked very black to him nevertheless , Levi's five hundred pounds was raised , and paid into Squire Hall's hands , and Squire Hall released Hiram's bond . 
The business was finally closed on one cold , gray afternoon in the early part of December . 
As Hiram tore his bond across and then tore it across again and again , Squire Hall pushed back the papers upon his desk and cocked his feet upon its slanting top . 
No , said he , I didn't know it . 
Well , he is , said Squire Hall . 
It's the talk of the whole neighborhood . 
The talk's pretty bad , too . 
D'ye know that they say that she was away from home three days last week , nobody knew where ? The fellow's turned her head with his sailor's yarns and his traveler's lies . 
Hiram said not a word , but he sat looking at the other in stolid silence . 
That stepbrother of yours , continued the old Squire presently , is a rascal he is a rascal , Hiram , and I mis doubt he's something worse . 
I hear he's been seen in some queer places and with queer company of late . 
He stopped again , and still Hiram said nothing . 
Tut ! tut ! said the Squire , that's a pity , Hiram . 
I'm afraid your cakes are dough . 
Presently he raised his hand and began slowly smoothing down the sandy shock of hair upon his forehead . 
At last he aroused himself with a shake , looked dully up and down the street , and then , putting on his hat , turned and walked slowly and heavily away . 
The early dusk of the cloudy winter evening was settling fast , for the sky was leaden and threatening . 
At the outskirts of the town Hiram stopped again and again stood for a while in brooding thought . 
Then , finally , he turned slowly , not the way that led homeward , but taking the road that led between the bare and withered fields and crooked fences toward Billy Martin's . 
It would be hard to say just what it was that led Hiram to seek Billy Martin's house at that time of day whether it was fate or ill fortune . 
He could not have chosen a more opportune time to confirm his own undoing . 
What he saw was the very worst that his heart feared . 
Along the road , at a little distance from the house , was a mock orange hedge , now bare , naked , leafless . 
As Hiram drew near he heard footsteps approaching and low voices . 
He drew back into the fence corner and there stood , half sheltered by the stark network of twigs . 
Two figures passed slowly along the gray of the roadway in the gloaming . 
One was his stepbrother , the other was Sally Martin . 
Levi's arm was around her , he was whispering into her ear , and her head rested upon his shoulder . 
Hiram stood as still , as breathless , as cold as ice . 
They stopped upon the side of the road just beyond where he stood . 
Hiram's eyes never left them . 
There for some time they talked together in low voices , their words now and then reaching the ears of that silent , breathless listener . 
Where be ye ? The girl flung her arms around Levi's neck and their lips met in one quick kiss . 
The next moment she was gone , flying swiftly , silently , down the road past where Hiram stood , stooping as she ran . 
Levi stood looking after her until she was gone then he turned and walked away whistling . 
His whistling died shrilly into silence in the wintry distance , and then at last Hiram came stumbling out from the hedge . 
His face had never looked before as it looked then . 
IX Hiram was standing in front of the fire with his hands clasped behind his back . 
He had not touched the supper on the table . 
Levi was eating with an appetite . 
Suddenly he looked over his plate at his stepbrother . 
How about that five hundred pounds , Hiram ? said he . 
I paid it to Squire Hall to day and he has it fer ye , said Hiram , dully . 
Levi laid down his knife and fork with a clatter . 
Squire Hall ! said he , what's Squire Hall got to do with it ? Squire Hall didn't have the use of that money . 
Squire Hall's trustee I ain't your trustee , said Hiram , in the same dull voice . 
I don't know nothing about trustees , said Levi , or anything about lawyer business , either . 
What I want to know is , are you going to pay me my money or no ? No , said Hiram , I ain't Squire Hall'll pay ye you go to him . 
Levi West's face grew purple red . 
He pushed back , his chair grating harshly . 
You bloody land pirate ! he said , grinding his teeth together . 
I see through your tricks . 
You're up to cheating me out of my money . 
I see through your tricks as clear as glass , but ye shatn't trick me . 
His face , dull , stupid , wooden , was now fairly convulsed with passion . 
The great veins stood out upon his temples like knotted whipcords , and when he spoke his voice was more a breathless snarl than the voice of a Christian man . 
Ye'll have the law , will ye ? said he . 
Ye'll have the law , will ye ? You're afeared to go to law Levi West you try th' law and see how ye like it . 
Who 're you to call me thief ye bloody , murderin' villain ye ! You're the thief Levi West you come here and stole my daddy from me ye did . 
You make me ruin myself to pay what oughter to been mine then ye ye steal the gal I was courtin' , to boot . 
He stopped and his lips rithed for words to say . 
I know ye , said he , grinding his teeth . 
I know ye ! And only for what my daddy made me promise I'd a had you up to the magistrate's before this . 
Oh , I'll give ye your belly fill of law if ye want th' law ! Git out of the house , I say ! As Hiram spoke Levi seemed to shrink together . 
His face changed from its copper color to a dull , waxy yellow . 
When the other ended he answered never a word . 
He never entered Hiram White's door again . 
X Hiram had driven out the evil spirit from his home , but the mischief that it had brewed was done and could not be undone . 
The next day it was known that Sally Martin had run away from home , and that she had run away with Levi West . 
Old Billy Martin had been in town in the morning with his rifle , hunting for Levi and threatening if he caught him to have his life for leading his daughter astray . 
And , as the evil spirit had left Hiram's house , so had another and a greater evil spirit quitted its harborage . 
It was well for himself that Blueskin left when he did , for not three days after he sailed away the Scorpion sloop of war dropped anchor in Lewes harbor . 
The New York agent of the unfortunate packet and a government commissioner had also come aboard the Scorpion . 
Without loss of time , the officer in command instituted a keen and searching examination that brought to light some singularly curious facts . 
Valuables of a suspicious nature had found their way even into the houses of Lewes itself . 
The whole neighborhood seemed to have become more or less tainted by the presence of the pirates . 
Even poor Hiram White did not escape the suspicions of having had dealings with them . 
Of course the examiners were not slow in discovering that Levi West had been deeply concerned with Blueskin's doings . 
Of all that he had endured , nothing seemed to cut poor Hiram so deeply and keenly as these unjust suspicions . 
They seemed to bring the last bitter pang , hardest of all to bear . 
Levi had taken from him his father's love he had driven him , if not to ruin , at least perilously close to it . 
He had run away with the girl he loved , and now , through him , even Hiram's good name was gone . 
Neither did the suspicions against him remain passive they became active . 
Under his accumulated misfortunes , he grew not only more dull , more taciturn , than ever , but gloomy , moody , brooding as well . 
For hours he would sit staring straight before him into the fire , without moving so much as a hair . 
Low and hesitating as it was , Hiram started violently at the sound . 
He sat for a while , looking from right to left . 
Then suddenly pushing back his chair , he arose , strode to the door , and flung it wide open , It was Sally Martin . 
Hiram stood for a while staring blankly at her . 
It was she who first spoke . 
Won't you let me come in , Hi ? said she . 
I'm nigh starved with the cold and I'm fit to die , I'm so hungry . 
For God's sake , let me come in . 
I have been home , Hiram , she said , but dad , he shut the door in my face . 
He cursed me just awful , Hi I wish I was dead ! You better come in , said Hiram . 
It's no good standing out there in the cold . 
He stood aside and the girl entered , swiftly , gratefully . 
At Hiram's bidding black Dinah presently set some food before Sally and she fell to eating ravenously , almost ferociously . 
Meantime , while she ate , Hiram stood with his back to the fire , looking at her face that face once so round and rosy , now thin , pinched , haggard . 
Are you sick , Sally ? said he presently . 
No , said she , but I've had pretty hard times since I left home , Hi . 
The tears sprang to her eyes at the recollection of her troubles , but she only wiped them hastily away with the back of her hand , without stopping in her eating . 
A long pause of dead silence followed . 
Dinah sat crouched together on a cricket at the other side of the hearth , listening with interest . 
Hiram did not seem to see her . 
Did you go off with Levi ? said he at last , speaking abruptly . 
The girl looked up furtively under her brows . 
You needn't be afeared to tell , he added . 
Yes , said she at last , I did go off with him , Hi . 
Where've you been ? At the question , she suddenly laid down her knife and fork . 
Don't you ask me that , Hi , said she , agitatedly , I can't tell you that . 
You don't know Levi , Hiram I darsn't tell you anything he don't want me to . 
If I told you where I been he'd hunt me out , no matter where I was , and kill me . 
If you only knew what I know about him , Hiram , you wouldn't ask anything about him . 
Hiram stood looking broodingly at her for a long time then at last he again spoke . 
I thought a sight of you onc't , Sally , said he . 
Sally did not answer immediately , but , after a while , she suddenly looked up . 
Hiram , said she , if I tell ye something will you promise on your oath not to breathe a word to any living soul ? Hiram nodded . 
Then I'll tell you , but if Levi finds I've told he'll murder me as sure as you're standin' there . 
Come nigher I've got to whisper it . 
He leaned forward close to her where she sat . 
She looked swiftly from right to left then raising her lips she breathed into his ear I'm an honest woman , Hi . 
I was married to Levi West before I run away . 
XI The winter had passed , spring had passed , and summer had come . 
Whatever Hiram had felt , he had made no sign of suffering . 
Nevertheless , his lumpy face had begun to look flabby , his cheeks hollow , and his loose jointed body shrunk more awkwardly together into its clothes . 
He was often awake at night , sometimes walking up and down his room until far into the small hours . 
It was through such a wakeful spell as this that he entered into the greatest , the most terrible , happening of his life . 
It was a sulphurously hot night in July . 
The air was like the breath of a furnace , and it was a hard matter to sleep with even the easiest mind and under the most favorable circumstances . 
The clock in the kitchen whirred and rang out the hour of twelve , and Hiram stopped in his walk to count the strokes . 
A few seconds more and he heard the creaking of rusty hinges . 
The mysterious visitor had entered the mill . 
Hiram crept softly to the window and looked out . 
The moon shone full on the dusty , shingled face of the old mill , not thirty steps away , and he saw that the door was standing wide open . 
Hiram could see his face as clear as day . 
It was Levi West , and he carried an empty meal bag over his arm . 
Levi West stood looking from right to left for a second or two , and then he took off his hat and wiped his brow with the back of his hand . 
Then he softly closed the door behind him and left the mill as he had come , and with the same cautious step . 
Hiram looked down upon him as he passed close to the house and almost directly beneath . 
He could have touched him with his hand . 
Fifty or sixty yards from the house Levi stopped and a second figure arose from the black shadow in the angle of the worm fence and joined him . 
They stood for a while talking together , Levi pointing now and then toward the mill . 
Then the two turned , and , climbing over the fence , cut across an open field and through the tall , shaggy grass toward the southeast . 
Great beads of sweat stood on his brow and he wiped them away with his sleeve . 
A little later they entered the sharp cut shadows beneath the trees and were swallowed in the darkness . 
Then , by and by , he also was in the shadow of the pines . 
Here , not a sound broke the midnight hush . 
His feet made no noise upon the resinous softness of the ground below . 
In that dead , pulseless silence he could distinctly hear the distant voices of Levi and his companion , sounding loud and resonant in the hollow of the woods . 
Beyond the woods was a cornfield , and presently he heard the rattling of the harsh leaves as the two plunged into the tasseled jungle . 
Here , as in the woods , he followed them , step by step , guided by the noise of their progress through the canes . 
Here Hiram kept within the black network of shadow . 
At last the two rounded the southern end of the white bluff , and when Hiram , following , rounded it also , they were no longer to be seen . 
Before him the sand hill rose , smooth and steep , cutting in a sharp ridge against the sky . 
Up this steep hill trailed the footsteps of those he followed , disappearing over the crest . 
Hiram , slowly , cautiously , stealthily , following their trailing line of footmarks , mounted to the top of the hillock and peered down into the bowl beneath . 
XII Levi had taken off his coat and waistcoat and was fanning himself with his hat . 
He was sitting upon the bag he had brought from the mill and which he had spread out upon the sand . 
His companion sat facing him . 
He also had his hat off and was wiping his forehead and face with a red handkerchief . 
Beside him lay the bundle of tools he had brought a couple of shovels , a piece of rope , and a long , sharp iron rod . 
The two men were talking together , but Hiram could not understand what they said , for they spoke in the same foreign language that they had before used . 
But he could see his stepbrother point with his finger , now to the dead tree and now to the steep , white face of the opposite side of the bowl like hollow . 
He gave one end of the tape line to his companion , holding the other with his thumb pressed upon a particular part of the tree . 
Taking his bearings by the compass , he gave now and then some orders to the other , who moved a little to the left or the right as he bade . 
At last he gave a word of command , and , thereupon , his companion drew a wooden peg from his pocket and thrust it into the sand . 
From this peg as a base they again measured , taking bearings by the compass , and again drove a peg . 
For a third time they repeated their measurements and then , at last , seemed to have reached the point which they aimed for . 
Here Levi marked a cross with his heel upon the sand . 
It was some while before he found that for which he was seeking , but at last the rod struck with a jar upon some hard object below . 
After making sure of success by one or two additional taps with the rod , Levi left it remaining where it stood , brushing the sand from his hands . 
Now fetch the shovels , Pedro , said he , speaking for the first time in English . 
The two men were busy for a long while , shoveling away the sand . 
But at last the blade of one of the shovels struck upon some hard substance and Levi stooped and brushed away the sand with the palm of his hand . 
Levi's companion climbed out of the hole which they had dug and tossed the rope which he had brought with the shovels down to the other . 
Levi made it fast to some object below and then himself mounted to the level of the sand above . 
Pulling together , the two drew up from the hole a heavy iron bound box , nearly three feet long and a foot wide and deep . 
Levi's companion stooped and began untying the rope which had been lashed to a ring in the lid . 
What next happened happened suddenly , swiftly , terribly . 
Levi drew back a single step , and shot one quick , keen look to right and to left . 
He passed his hand rapidly behind his back , and the next moment Hiram saw the moonlight gleam upon the long , sharp , keen blade of a knife . 
Then , just as the other arose from bending over the chest , he struck , and struck again , two swift , powerful blows . 
Hiram saw the blade drive , clean and sharp , into the back , and heard the hilt strike with a dull thud against the ribs once , twice . 
The burly , black bearded wretch gave a shrill , terrible cry and fell staggering back . 
Then , in an instant , with another cry , he was up and clutched Levi with a clutch of despair by the throat and by the arm . 
Then followed a struggle , short , terrible , silent . 
Not a sound was heard but the deep , panting breath and the scuffling of feet in the sand , upon which there now poured and dabbled a dark purple stream . 
But it was a one sided struggle and lasted only for a second or two . 
Levi wrenched his arm loose from the wounded man's grasp , tearing his shirt sleeve from the wrist to the shoulder as he did so . 
Again and again the cruel knife was lifted , and again and again it fell , now no longer bright , but stained with red . 
Then , suddenly , all was over . 
Levi's companion dropped to the sand without a sound , like a bundle of rags . 
For a moment he lay limp and inert then one shuddering spasm passed over him and he lay silent and still , with his face half buried in the sand . 
Levi , with the knife still gripped tight in his hand , stood leaning over his victim , looking down upon his body . 
His shirt and hand , and even his naked arm , were stained and blotched with blood . 
The moon lit up his face and it was the face of a devil from hell . 
At last he gave himself a shake , stooped and wiped his knife and hand and arm upon the loose petticoat breeches of the dead man . 
He thrust his knife back into its sheath , drew a key from his pocket and unlocked the chest . 
In the moonlight Hiram could see that it was filled mostly with paper and leather bags , full , apparently of money . 
The sand slid whispering down from the crest as he did so , but Levi was too intent in turning over the contents of the chest to notice the slight sound . 
Hiram's face was ghastly pale and drawn . 
For one moment he opened his lips as though to speak , but no word came . 
Cautiously , slowly , he stepped over the edge of the sand hill and down the slanting face . 
His coming was as silent as death , for his feet made no noise as he sank ankle deep in the yielding surface . 
So , stealthily , step by step , he descended , reached the bag , lifted it silently . 
Levi , still bending over the chest and searching through the papers within , was not four feet away . 
Hiram raised the bag in his hands . 
He must have made some slight rustle as he did so , for suddenly Levi half turned his head . 
But he was one instant too late . 
In a flash the bag was over his head shoulders arms body . 
Then came another struggle , as fierce , as silent , as desperate as that other and as short . 
In any case , the struggle could not have lasted long as it was , Levi stumbled backward over the body of his dead mate and fell , with Hiram upon him . 
Only once was a word spoken . 
If you'll lemme go , said a muffled voice from the bag , I'll give you five thousand pounds it's in that there box . 
Hiram answered never a word , but continued knotting the rope and drawing it tight . 
XIII The Scorpion sloop of war lay in Lewes harbor all that winter and spring , probably upon the slim chance of a return of the pirates . 
It was about eight o'clock in the morning and Lieutenant Maynard was sitting in Squire Hall's office , fanning himself with his hat and talking in a desultory fashion . 
Suddenly the dim and distant noise of a great crowd was heard from without , coming nearer and nearer . 
The Squire and his visitor hurried to the door . 
The crowd was coming down the street shouting , jostling , struggling , some on the footway , some in the roadway . 
Heads were at the doors and windows , looking down upon them . 
Nearer they came , and nearer then at last they could see that the press surrounded and accompanied one man . 
It was Hiram White , hatless , coatless , the sweat running down his face in streams , but stolid and silent as ever . 
Over his shoulder he carried a bag , tied round and round with a rope . 
It was a man he was carrying . 
Hiram had lugged his burden five miles that morning without help and with scarcely a rest on the way . 
He came directly toward the Squire's office and , still sun rounded and hustled by the crowd , up the steep steps to the office within . 
He flung his burden heavily upon the floor without a word and wiped his streaming forehead . 
The Squire stood with his knuckles on his desk , staring first at Hiram and then at the strange burden he had brought . 
A sudden hush fell upon all , though the voices of those without sounded as loud and turbulent as ever . 
What is it , Hiram ? said Squire Hall at last . 
Then for the first time Hiram spoke , panting thickly . 
It's a bloody murderer , said he , pointing a quivering finger at the motionless figure . 
Here , some of you ! called out the Squire . 
Come ! Untie this man ! Who is he ? A dozen willing fingers quickly unknotted the rope and the bag was slipped from the head and body . 
Levi raised himself upon his elbow and looked scowlingly around at the amazed , wonderstruck faces surrounding him . 
Why , it's Levi West ! croaked the Squire , at last finding his voice . 
Levi West ! said he in a loud voice . 
Is this the Levi West you've been telling me of ? Look at that scar and the mark on his cheek ! THIS IS BLUESKIN HIMSELF . 
The New York agents offered Hiram a handsome reward for his efforts in recovering the lost bills , but Hiram declined it , positively and finally . 
All I want , said he , in his usual dull , stolid fashion , is to have folks know I'm honest . 
Nevertheless , though he did not accept what the agents of the packet offered , fate took the matter into its own hands and rewarded him not unsubstantially . 
Blueskin was taken to England in the Scorpion . 
But he never came to trial . 
While in Newgate he hanged himself to the cell window with his own stockings . 
The news of his end was brought to Lewes in the early autumn and Squire Hall took immediate measures to have the five hundred pounds of his father's legacy duly transferred to Hiram . 
In November Hiram married the pirate's widow . 
VII CAPTAIN SCARFIELD I ELEAZER COOPER , or Captain Cooper , as was his better known title in Philadelphia , was a prominent member of the Society of Friends . 
He was an overseer of the meeting and an occasional speaker upon particular occasions . 
His vessel was a swift , large schooner , the Eliza Cooper , of Philadelphia , named for his wife . 
His cruising grounds were the West India Islands , and his merchandise was flour and corn meal ground at the Brandywine Mills at Wilmington , Delaware . 
In person , Captain Cooper was tall and angular of frame . 
His face was thin and severe , wearing continually an unsmiling , mask like expression of continent and unruffled sobriety . 
His manner was dry and taciturn , and his conduct and life were measured to the most absolute accord with the teachings of his religious belief . 
He lived in an old fashioned house on Front Street below Spruce as pleasant , cheerful a house as ever a trading captain could return to . 
At the back of the house a lawn sloped steeply down toward the river . 
To the south stood the wharf and storehouses to the north an orchard and kitchen garden bloomed with abundant verdure . 
Eleazer Cooper and his wife were childless , but one inmate made the great , silent , shady house bright with life . 
It remains only to introduce the final and , perhaps , the most important actor of the narrative Lieut . 
During the past twelve months or so he had been a frequent visitor at the Cooper house . 
At this time he was a broad shouldered , red cheeked , stalwart fellow of twenty six or twenty eight . 
The truth was that Mainwaring and the young lady were very deeply in love . 
Accordingly she and Mainwaring met as they could clandestinely and the stolen moments were very sweet . 
In the month of April of the year Mainwaring received orders to report at Washington . 
During the preceding autumn the West India pirates , and notably Capt . 
On his way from Washington to New York , where the Yankee was then waiting orders , Mainwaring stopped in Philadelphia to bid good by to his many friends in that city . 
He called at the old Cooper house . 
It was on a Sunday afternoon . 
The spring was early and the weather extremely pleasant that day , being filled with a warmth almost as of summer . 
The apple trees were already in full bloom and filled all the air with their fragrance . 
Everywhere there seemed to be the pervading hum of bees , and the drowsy , tepid sunshine was very delightful . 
At that time Eleazer was just home from an unusually successful voyage to Antigua . 
Mainwaring found the family sitting under one of the still leafless chestnut trees , Captain Cooper smoking his long clay pipe and lazily perusing a copy of the National Gazette . 
Eleazer listened with a great deal of interest to what Mainwaring had to say of his proposed cruise . 
Vastly to Mainwaring's surprise , the old Quaker assumed the position of a defendant of the pirates , protesting that the wickedness of the accused was enormously exaggerated . 
He conceded that Captain Scarfield had done many cruel and wicked deeds , but he averred that he had also performed many kind and benevolent actions . 
The world made no note of these latter , but took care only to condemn the evil that had been done . 
There was no defender of his actions to tell how he and his crew of pirates had sailed the pest stricken vessel almost into the rescuing waters of Kingston harbor . 
to throw bottles at the helpless captive , who died that night of the wounds he had received . 
In all this Eleazer had the air of conducting the case for the defendant . 
As he talked he became more and more animated and voluble . 
The light went out in his tobacco pipe , and a hectic spot appeared in either thin and sallow cheek . 
Mainwaring sat wondering to hear the severely peaceful Quaker preacher defending so notoriously bloody and cruel a cutthroat pirate as Capt . 
The warm and innocent surroundings , the old brick house looking down upon them , the odor of apple blossoms and the hum of bees seemed to make it all the more incongruous . 
And still the elderly Quaker skipper talked on and on with hardly an interruption , till the warm sun slanted to the west and the day began to decline . 
They were so happy as they were . 
Who knew but what her uncle might forbid their fondness ? Would he not wait a little longer ? Maybe it would all come right after a while . 
She was so fond , so tender , so tearful at the nearness of their parting that he had not the heart to insist . 
When he bade farewell to the older people it was with a choking feeling of bitter disappointment . 
He yet felt the pressure of her cheek against his shoulder , the touch of soft and velvet lips to his own . 
But he was very much in love . 
The next morning appeared in a drizzle of rain that followed the beautiful warmth of the day before . 
II For the better part of five months Mainwaring cruised about in the waters surrounding the Bahama Islands . 
In that time he ran to earth and dispersed a dozen nests of pirates . 
He destroyed no less than fifteen piratical crafts of all sizes , from a large half decked whaleboat to a three hundred ton barkentine . 
But the one freebooter of all others whom he sought Capt . 
Jack Scarfield seemed to evade him like a shadow , to slip through his fingers like magic . 
Twice he came almost within touch of the famous marauder , both times in the ominous wrecks that the pirate captain had left behind him . 
The first of these was the water logged remains of a burned and still smoking wreck that he found adrift in the great Bahama channel . 
It was , indeed , a dreadful story to which he listened . 
Again , there was a message from Captain Scarfield to the commander of the Yankee that he might season what he found to suit his own taste . 
Mainwaring was of a sanguine disposition , with fiery temper . 
He swore , with the utmost vehemence , that either he or John Scarfield would have to leave the earth . 
He had little suspicion of how soon was to befall the ominous realization of his angry prophecy . 
At that time one of the chief rendezvous of the pirates was the little island of San Jose , one of the southernmost of the Bahama group . 
Mainwaring had made several descents upon this nest of freebooters . 
He had already made two notable captures , and it was here he hoped eventually to capture Captain Scarfield himself . 
A brief description of this one time notorious rendezvous of freebooters might not be out of place . 
It consisted of a little settlement of those wattled and mud smeared houses such as you find through the West Indies . 
There were only three houses of a more pretentious sort , built of wood . 
The population was almost entirely black and brown . 
One or two Jews and a half dozen Yankee traders , of hardly dubious honesty , comprised the entire white population . 
The rest consisted of a mongrel accumulation of negroes and mulattoes and half caste Spaniards , and of a multitude of black or yellow women and children . 
The settlement stood in a bight of the beach forming a small harbor and affording a fair anchorage for small vessels , excepting it were against the beating of a southeasterly gale . 
As the little bay with its fringe of palms and its cluster of wattle huts opened up to view , Mainwaring discovered a vessel lying at anchor in the little harbor . 
It was a large and well rigged schooner of two hundred and fifty or three hundred tons burden . 
It is impossible to describe his infinite surprise when , the white lettering starting out in the circle of the glass , he read , The Eliza Cooper , of Philadelphia . 
He could not believe the evidence of his senses . 
Certainly this sink of iniquity was the last place in the world he would have expected to have fallen in with Eleazer Cooper . 
He ordered out the gig and had himself immediately rowed over to the schooner . 
Whatever lingering doubts he might have entertained as to the identity of the vessel were quickly dispelled when he beheld Captain Cooper himself standing at the gangway to meet him . 
The impassive face of the friend showed neither surprise nor confusion at what must have been to him a most unexpected encounter . 
But when he stepped upon the deck of the Eliza Cooper and looked about him , Mainwaring could hardly believe the evidence of his senses at the transformation that he beheld . 
His look , it seemed to Mainwaring , appeared to be dubitative as to how far he dared to be frank . 
Friend James , he said at last , I may as well acknowledge that my officers and crew are somewhat worldly . 
As for myself , thee knows who I am and what is my testimony in these matters . 
Mainwaring made no comment as to the extremely questionable manner in which the Quaker proposed to beat the devil about the stump . 
These men of blood are , after all , but human beings , and as human beings they need food . 
I have at present upon this vessel upward of two hundred and fifty barrels of flour which will bring a higher price here than anywhere else in the West Indies . 
Mainwaring sat for a while in smoking silence . 
What the other had told him explained many things he had not before understood . 
It explained why he had been so strong a defender of Captain Scarfield and the pirates that afternoon in the garden . 
Meantime , what was to be done ? Eleazer confessed openly that he dealt with the pirates . 
I know , he said , that in a moment thee will ask me who was this customer of whom I have just now spoken . 
I have no desire to conceal his name from thee . 
It was the man who is known as Captain Jack or Captain John Scarfield . 
Mainwaring fairly started from his seat . 
The devil you say ! he cried . 
And how long has it been , he asked , since he left you ? The Quaker skipper carefully refilled his pipe , which be had by now smoked out . 
I would judge , he said , that it is a matter of four or five hours since news was brought overland by means of swift runners of thy approach . 
Immediately the man of wickedness disappeared . 
Here Eleazer set the bowl of his pipe to the candle flame and began puffing out voluminous clouds of smoke . 
I would have thee understand , James Mainwaring , he resumed , that I am no friend of this wicked and sinful man . 
His safety is nothing to me . 
It is only a question of buying upon his part and of selling upon mine . 
If it is any satisfaction to thee I will heartily promise to bring thee news if I hear anything of the man of Belial . 
I may furthermore say that I think it is likely thee will have news more or less directly of him within the space of a day . 
It struck Mainwaring that the words contained some meaning that did not appear upon the surface . 
This significance struck him as so ambiguous that when he went aboard the Yankee he confided as much of his suspicions as he saw fit to his second in command , Lieutenant Underwood . 
As night descended he had a double watch set and had everything prepared to repel any attack or surprise that might be attempted . 
III Nighttime in the tropics descends with a surprising rapidity . 
At one moment the earth is shining with the brightness of the twilight the next , as it were , all things are suddenly swallowed into a gulf of darkness . 
The blackness was very dense . 
Now and then a group of drifting stars swam out of a rift in the vapors , but the night was curiously silent and of a velvety darkness . 
For some reason Mainwaring was possessed by a strange , uneasy feeling . 
Mainwaring at once saw that his visitor was strangely agitated and disturbed . 
He had taken off his hat , and shining beads of perspiration had gathered and stood clustered upon his forehead . 
Mainwaring had reseated himself at the head of the table , and the tall figure of the skipper stood looking down at him as from a considerable height . 
James Mainwaring , he said , I promised thee to report if I had news of the pirate . 
I know not what you mean , sir ! he cried , by asking if I care to hear your news . 
At this moment I would rather have news of that scoundrel than to have anything I know of in the world . 
Thou would ? Thou would ? cried the other , with mounting agitation . 
Is thee in such haste to meet him as all that ? Very well very well , then . 
I do not understand you , sir , he cried . 
No danger of that ! the other declared , vehemently . 
No danger of that ! I'll tell thee where he is and I'll bring thee to him quick enough ! And as he spoke he thumped his fist against the open log book . 
One drop hung like a jewel to the tip of his beaklike nose . 
Captain Scarfield sent something to you , said Eleazer , almost in a raucous voice , something that you will be surprised to see . 
And the lapse in his speech from the Quaker thee to the plural you struck Mainwaring as singularly strange . 
As he was speaking Eleazer was fumbling in a pocket of his long tailed drab coat , and presently he brought something forth that gleamed in the lanthorn light . 
The next moment Mainwaring saw leveled directly in his face the round and hollow nozzle of a pistol . 
There was an instant of dead silence and then , I am the man you seek ! said Eleazer Cooper , in a tense and breathless voice . 
The whole thing had happened so instantaneously and unexpectedly that for the moment Mainwaring sat like one petrified . 
Had a thunderbolt fallen from the silent sky and burst at his feet he could not have been more stunned . 
That face , now ashy white , was distorted into a diabolical grin . 
The teeth glistened in the lamplight . 
Again he spoke in the same breathless voice . 
Then once more the other began speaking . 
Speak a word or make a movement and I'll blow your brains out against the partition behind you ! Listen to what I say or you are a dead man . 
It was astonishing to Mainwaring , in afterward thinking about it all , how quickly his mind began to recover its steadiness after that first astonishing shock . 
If he could but for an instant divert that fixed and deadly attention he might still have a chance for life . 
With the thought an inspiration burst into his mind and he instantly put it into execution thought , inspiration , and action , as in a flash , were one . 
Equally upon the instant he saw the trick that had been played upon him and in a second flash had turned again . 
The turn and return had occupied but a moment of time , but that moment , thanks to the readiness of his own invention , had undoubtedly saved Mainwaring's life . 
As the other turned away his gaze for that brief instant Mainwaring leaped forward and upon him . 
There was a flashing flame of fire as the pistol was discharged and a deafening detonation that seemed to split his brain . 
For a moment , with reeling senses , he supposed himself to have been shot , the next he knew he had escaped . 
With the energy of despair he swung his enemy around and drove him with prodigious violence against the corner of the table . 
The pirate emitted a grunting cry and then they fell together , Mainwaring upon the top , and the pistol clattered with them to the floor in their fall . 
The lieutenant caught him by the wrist , but the other's muscles were as though made of steel . 
They both fought in despairing silence , the one to carry out his frustrated purposes to kill , the other to save his life . 
Again and again Mainwaring felt that the knife had been thrust against him , piercing once his arm , once his shoulder , and again his neck . 
He felt the warm blood streaming down his arm and body and looked about him in despair . 
The pistol lay near upon the deck of the cabin . 
Still holding the other by the wrist as he could , Mainwaring snatched up the empty weapon and struck once and again at the bald , narrow forehead beneath him . 
It was a fortunate thing that he had set double watches and prepared himself for some attack from the pirates , otherwise the Yankee would certainly have been lost . 
The crew of the Yankee continued firing at the phosphorescent wakes of the swimming bodies , but whether with effect it was impossible at the time to tell . 
IV The pirate captain did not die immediately . 
He lingered for three or four days , now and then unconscious , now and then semi conscious , but always deliriously wandering . 
In the wanderings of his mind the same duality of life followed him . 
At the one time he talked evenly and clearly of peaceful things at the other time he blasphemed and hooted with fury . 
Several times Mainwaring , though racked by his own wounds , sat beside the dying man through the silent watches of the tropical nights . 
Oftentimes upon these occasions as he looked at the thin , lean face babbling and talking so aimlessly , he wondered what it all meant . 
At last the poor wretch died , and the earth was well quit of one of its torments . 
A systematic search was made through the island for the scattered crew , but none was captured . 
or else they had escaped in boats hidden somewhere among the tropical foliage . 
At any rate they were gone . 
Nor , search as he would , could Mainwaring find a trace of any of the pirate treasure . 
Nor would the treasure ever have been found but for a most fortuitous accident . 
Mainwaring had given orders that the Eliza Cooper was to be burned , and a party was detailed to carry the order into execution . 
A systematic search was now made . 
The breeze was whitened with clouds of flour , and the white meal covered the surface of the ocean for yards around . 
In all , upward of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars was found concealed beneath the innocent flour and meal . 
In concluding this part of the narrative it may be added that a wide strip of canvas painted black was discovered in the hold of the Eliza Cooper . 
Upon it , in great white letters , was painted the name , The Bloodhound . 
This is the true story of the death of Capt . 
The Newburyport chap book , of which I have already spoken , speaks only of how the pirate disguised himself upon the ocean as a Quaker trader . 
All that was ever known to the world was that Eleazer Cooper had been killed in a fight with the pirates . 
In a little less than a year Mainwaring was married to Lucinda Fairbanks . 
