THE STRANGE CASE OF DR . 
THE STRANGE CASE OF DR . 
I incline to Cain's heresy , he used to say quaintly I let my brother go to the devil in his own way . 
In this character , it was frequently his fortune to be the last reputable acquaintance and the last good influence in the lives of downgoing men . 
And to such as these , so long as they came about his chambers , he never marked a shade of change in his demeanour . 
No doubt the feat was easy to Mr. Utterson for he was undemonstrative at the best , and even his friendship seemed to be founded in a similar catholicity of good nature . 
It is the mark of a modest man to accept his friendly circle ready made from the hands of opportunity and that was the lawyer's way . 
Hence , no doubt the bond that united him to Mr. Richard Enfield , his distant kinsman , the well known man about town . 
It was a nut to crack for many , what these two could see in each other , or what subject they could find in common . 
It was reported by those who encountered them in their Sunday walks , that they said nothing , looked singularly dull and would hail with obvious relief the appearance of a friend . 
It chanced on one of these rambles that their way led them down a by street in a busy quarter of London . 
The street was small and what is called quiet , but it drove a thriving trade on the weekdays . 
The door , which was equipped with neither bell nor knocker , was blistered and distained . 
Mr. Enfield and the lawyer were on the other side of the by street but when they came abreast of the entry , the former lifted up his cane and pointed . 
Did you ever remark that door ? he asked and when his companion had replied in the affirmative . 
It is connected in my mind , added he , with a very odd story . 
It sounds nothing to hear , but it was hellish to see . 
It wasn't like a man it was like some damned Juggernaut . 
I gave a few halloa , took to my heels , collared my gentleman , and brought him back to where there was already quite a group about the screaming child . 
He was perfectly cool and made no resistance , but gave me one look , so ugly that it brought out the sweat on me like running . 
The people who had turned out were the girl's own family and pretty soon , the doctor , for whom she had been sent put in his appearance . 
Well , the child was not much the worse , more frightened , according to the Sawbones and there you might have supposed would be an end to it . 
But there was one curious circumstance . 
I had taken a loathing to my gentleman at first sight . 
So had the child's family , which was only natural . 
But the doctor's case was what struck me . 
He was the usual cut and dry apothecary , of no particular age and colour , with a strong Edinburgh accent and about as emotional as a bagpipe . 
Well , sir , he was like the rest of us every time he looked at my prisoner , I saw that Sawbones turn sick and white with desire to kill him . 
I knew what was in his mind , just as he knew what was in mine and killing being out of the question , we did the next best . 
We told the man we could and would make such a scandal out of this as should make his name stink from one end of London to the other . 
If he had any friends or any credit , we undertook that he should lose them . 
And all the time , as we were pitching it in red hot , we were keeping the women off him as best we could for they were as wild as harpies . 
If you choose to make capital out of this accident , said he , I am naturally helpless . 
No gentleman but wishes to avoid a scene , says he . 
The figure was stiff but the signature was good for more than that if it was only genuine . 
But he was quite easy and sneering . 
Set your mind at rest , says he , I will stay with you till the banks open and cash the cheque myself . 
I gave in the cheque myself , and said I had every reason to believe it was a forgery . 
Not a bit of it . 
Tut tut , said Mr. Utterson . 
I see you feel as I do , said Mr. Enfield . 
Yes , it's a bad story . 
one of your fellows who do what they call good . 
Black mail I suppose an honest man paying through the nose for some of the capers of his youth . 
Black Mail House is what I call the place with the door , in consequence . 
Though even that , you know , is far from explaining all , he added , and with the words fell into a vein of musing . 
But I happen to have noticed his address he lives in some square or other . 
And you never asked about the place with the door ? said Mr. Utterson . 
No , sir I had a delicacy , was the reply . 
I feel very strongly about putting questions it partakes too much of the style of the day of judgment . 
You start a question , and it's like starting a stone . 
is knocked on the head in his own back garden and the family have to change their name . 
No sir , I make it a rule of mine the more it looks like Queer Street , the less I ask . 
A very good rule , too , said the lawyer . 
But I have studied the place for myself , continued Mr. Enfield . 
It seems scarcely a house . 
There is no other door , and nobody goes in or out of that one but , once in a great while , the gentleman of my adventure . 
There are three windows looking on the court on the first floor none below the windows are always shut but they're clean . 
And then there is a chimney which is generally smoking so somebody must live there . 
And yet it's not so sure for the buildings are so packed together about the court , that it's hard to say where one ends and another begins . 
The pair walked on again for a while in silence and then Enfield , said Mr. Utterson , that's a good rule of yours . 
Yes , I think it is , returned Enfield . 
But for all that , continued the lawyer , there's one point I want to ask I want to ask the name of that man who walked over the child . 
Well , said Mr. Enfield , I can't see what harm it would do . 
It was a man of the name of Hyde . 
Hm , said Mr. Utterson . 
What sort of a man is he to see ? He is not easy to describe . 
There is something wrong with his appearance something displeasing , something down right detestable . 
I never saw a man I so disliked , and yet I scarce know why . 
He must be deformed somewhere he gives a strong feeling of deformity , although I couldn't specify the point . 
He's an extraordinary looking man , and yet I really can name nothing out of the way . 
No , sir I can make no hand of it I can't describe him . 
And it's not want of memory for I declare I can see him this moment . 
Mr. Utterson again walked some way in silence and obviously under a weight of consideration . 
You are sure he used a key ? he inquired at last . 
began Enfield , surprised out of himself . 
Yes , I know , said Utterson I know it must seem strange . 
The fact is , if I do not ask you the name of the other party , it is because I know it already . 
You see , Richard , your tale has gone home . 
If you have been inexact in any point you had better correct it . 
I think you might have warned me , returned the other with a touch of sullenness . 
But I have been pedantically exact , as you call it . 
The fellow had a key and what's more , he has it still . 
I saw him use it not a week ago . 
Mr. Utterson sighed deeply but said never a word and the young man presently resumed . 
Here is another lesson to say nothing , said he . 
I am ashamed of my long tongue . 
Let us make a bargain never to refer to this again . 
With all my heart , said the lawyer . 
I shake hands on that , Richard . 
Search for Mr. Hyde That evening Mr. Utterson came home to his bachelor house in sombre spirits and sat down to dinner without relish . 
On this night however , as soon as the cloth was taken away , he took up a candle and went into his business room . 
There he opened his safe , took from the most private part of it a document endorsed on the envelope as Dr . 
Jekyll's Will and sat down with a clouded brow to study its contents . 
, all his possessions were to pass into the hands of his friend and benefactor Edward Hyde , but that in case of Dr . 
This document had long been the lawyer's eyesore . 
It offended him both as a lawyer and as a lover of the sane and customary sides of life , to whom the fanciful was the immodest . 
And hitherto it was his ignorance of Mr. Hyde that had swelled his indignation now , by a sudden turn , it was his knowledge . 
It was already bad enough when the name was but a name of which he could learn no more . 
I thought it was madness , he said , as he replaced the obnoxious paper in the safe , and now I begin to fear it is disgrace . 
Lanyon , had his house and received his crowding patients . 
If anyone knows , it will be Lanyon , he had thought . 
The solemn butler knew and welcomed him he was subjected to no stage of delay , but ushered direct from the door to the dining room where Dr . 
Lanyon sat alone over his wine . 
This was a hearty , healthy , dapper , red faced gentleman , with a shock of hair prematurely white , and a boisterous and decided manner . 
At sight of Mr. Utterson , he sprang up from his chair and welcomed him with both hands . 
The geniality , as was the way of the man , was somewhat theatrical to the eye but it reposed on genuine feeling . 
After a little rambling talk , the lawyer led up to the subject which so disagreeably preoccupied his mind . 
I suppose , Lanyon , said he , you and I must be the two oldest friends that Henry Jekyll has ? I wish the friends were younger , chuckled Dr . 
But I suppose we are . 
And what of that ? I see little of him now . 
I thought you had a bond of common interest . 
We had , was the reply . 
But it is more than ten years since Henry Jekyll became too fanciful for me . 
Such unscientific balderdash , added the doctor , flushing suddenly purple , would have estranged Damon and Pythias . 
This little spirit of temper was somewhat of a relief to Mr. Utterson . 
, he even added It is nothing worse than that ! He gave his friend a few seconds to recover his composure , and then approached the question he had come to put . 
Did you ever come across a protege of his one Hyde ? he asked . 
No. Never heard of him . 
It was a night of little ease to his toiling mind , toiling in mere darkness and beseiged by questions . 
Six o'clock stuck on the bells of the church that was so conveniently near to Mr. Utterson's dwelling , and still he was digging at the problem . 
If he could but once set eyes on him , he thought the mystery would lighten and perhaps roll altogether away , as was the habit of mysterious things when well examined . 
and even for the startling clause of the will . 
From that time forward , Mr. Utterson began to haunt the door in the by street of shops . 
If he be Mr. Hyde , he had thought , I shall be Mr. Seek . 
And at last his patience was rewarded . 
By ten o'clock , when the shops were closed the by street was very solitary and , in spite of the low growl of London from all round , very silent . 
Mr. Utterson had been some minutes at his post , when he was aware of an odd light footstep drawing near . 
Yet his attention had never before been so sharply and decisively arrested and it was with a strong , superstitious prevision of success that he withdrew into the entry of the court . 
The steps drew swiftly nearer , and swelled out suddenly louder as they turned the end of the street . 
The lawyer , looking forth from the entry , could soon see what manner of man he had to deal with . 
He was small and very plainly dressed and the look of him , even at that distance , went somehow strongly against the watcher's inclination . 
But he made straight for the door , crossing the roadway to save time and as he came , he drew a key from his pocket like one approaching home . 
Mr. Utterson stepped out and touched him on the shoulder as he passed . 
Mr. Hyde , I think ? Mr. Hyde shrank back with a hissing intake of the breath . 
But his fear was only momentary and though he did not look the lawyer in the face , he answered coolly enough That is my name . 
What do you want ? I see you are going in , returned the lawyer . 
I am an old friend of Dr . 
Jekyll's Mr. Utterson of Gaunt Street you must have heard of my name and meeting you so conveniently , I thought you might admit me . 
You will not find Dr . 
Jekyll he is from home , replied Mr. Hyde , blowing in the key . 
And then suddenly , but still without looking up , How did you know me ? he asked . 
On your side , said Mr. Utterson will you do me a favour ? With pleasure , replied the other . 
What shall it be ? Will you let me see your face ? asked the lawyer . 
Now I shall know you again , said Mr. Utterson . 
Yes , returned Mr. Hyde , lt is as well we have met and apropos , you should have my address . 
And he gave a number of a street in Soho . 
And now , said the other , how did you know me ? By description , was the reply . 
Whose description ? We have common friends , said Mr. Utterson . 
Common friends , echoed Mr. Hyde , a little hoarsely . 
Who are they ? Jekyll , for instance , said the lawyer . 
He never told you , cried Mr. Hyde , with a flush of anger . 
I did not think you would have lied . 
Come , said Mr. Utterson , that is not fitting language . 
The other snarled aloud into a savage laugh and the next moment , with extraordinary quickness , he had unlocked the door and disappeared into the house . 
The lawyer stood awhile when Mr. Hyde had left him , the picture of disquietude . 
Then he began slowly to mount the street , pausing every step or two and putting his hand to his brow like a man in mental perplexity . 
The problem he was thus debating as he walked , was one of a class that is rarely solved . 
There must be something else , said the perplexed gentleman . 
There is something more , if I could find a name for it . 
God bless me , the man seems hardly human ! Something troglodytic , shall we say ? or can it be the old story of Dr . 
A well dressed , elderly servant opened the door . 
Jekyll at home , Poole ? asked the lawyer . 
by a bright , open fire , and furnished with costly cabinets of oak . 
He was ashamed of his relief , when Poole presently returned to announce that Dr . 
I saw Mr. Hyde go in by the old dissecting room , Poole , he said . 
Is that right , when Dr . 
Jekyll is from home ? Quite right , Mr. Utterson , sir , replied the servant . 
Mr. Hyde has a key . 
Your master seems to repose a great deal of trust in that young man , Poole , resumed the other musingly . 
Yes , sir , he does indeed , said Poole . 
We have all orders to obey him . 
I do not think I ever met Mr. Hyde ? asked Utterson . 
O , dear no , sir . 
He never dines here , replied the butler . 
Indeed we see very little of him on this side of the house he mostly comes and goes by the laboratory . 
Well , good night , Poole . 
Good night , Mr. Utterson . 
And the lawyer set out homeward with a very heavy heart . 
And then by a return on his former subject , he conceived a spark of hope . 
Things cannot continue as they are . 
Ay , I must put my shoulders to the wheel if Jekyll will but let me , he added , if Jekyll will only let me . 
For once more he saw before his mind's eye , as clear as transparency , the strange clauses of the will . 
This was no new arrangement , but a thing that had befallen many scores of times . 
Where Utterson was liked , he was liked well . 
To this rule , Dr . 
I have been wanting to speak to you , Jekyll , began the latter . 
You know that will of yours ? A close observer might have gathered that the topic was distasteful but the doctor carried it off gaily . 
My poor Utterson , said he , you are unfortunate in such a client . 
I never saw a man so distressed as you were by my will unless it were that hide bound pedant , Lanyon , at what he called my scientific heresies . 
I was never more disappointed in any man than Lanyon . 
You know I never approved of it , pursued Utterson , ruthlessly disregarding the fresh topic . 
My will ? Yes , certainly , I know that , said the doctor , a trifle sharply . 
You have told me so . 
Well , I tell you so again , continued the lawyer . 
I have been learning something of young Hyde . 
The large handsome face of Dr . 
Jekyll grew pale to the very lips , and there came a blackness about his eyes . 
I do not care to hear more , said he . 
This is a matter I thought we had agreed to drop . 
What I heard was abominable , said Utterson . 
It can make no change . 
You do not understand my position , returned the doctor , with a certain incoherency of manner . 
I am painfully situated , Utterson my position is a very strange a very strange one . 
It is one of those affairs that cannot be mended by talking . 
Jekyll , said Utterson , you know me I am a man to be trusted . 
Make a clean breast of this in confidence and I make no doubt I can get you out of it . 
My good Utterson , said the doctor , this is very good of you , this is downright good of you , and I cannot find words to thank you in . 
Utterson reflected a little , looking in the fire . 
I have no doubt you are perfectly right , he said at last , getting to his feet . 
Well , but since we have touched upon this business , and for the last time I hope , continued the doctor , there is one point I should like you to understand . 
I have really a very great interest in poor Hyde . 
I know you have seen him he told me so and I fear he was rude . 
I think you would , if you knew all and it would be a weight off my mind if you would promise . 
I can't pretend that I shall ever like him , said the lawyer . 
Utterson heaved an irrepressible sigh . 
Well , said he , I promise . 
The details were few and startling . 
A maid servant living alone in a house not far from the river , had gone upstairs to bed about eleven . 
It seems she was romantically given , for she sat down upon her box , which stood immediately under the window , and fell into a dream of musing . 
, never had she felt more at peace with all men or thought more kindly of the world . 
the older man bowed and accosted the other with a very pretty manner of politeness . 
He had in his hand a heavy cane , with which he was trifling but he answered never a word , and seemed to listen with an ill contained impatience . 
And then all of a sudden he broke out in a great flame of anger , stamping with his foot , brandishing the cane , and carrying on like a madman . 
At the horror of these sights and sounds , the maid fainted . 
It was two o'clock when she came to herself and called for the police . 
The murderer was gone long ago but there lay his victim in the middle of the lane , incredibly mangled . 
I shall say nothing till I have seen the body , said he this may be very serious . 
Have the kindness to wait while I dress . 
And with the same grave countenance he hurried through his breakfast and drove to the police station , whither the body had been carried . 
As soon as he came into the cell , he nodded . 
Yes , said he , I recognise him . 
I am sorry to say that this is Sir Danvers Carew . 
Good God , sir , exclaimed the officer , is it possible ? And the next moment his eye lighted up with professional ambition . 
This will make a deal of noise , he said . 
And perhaps you can help us to the man . 
And he briefly narrated what the maid had seen , and showed the broken stick . 
Is this Mr. Hyde a person of small stature ? he inquired . 
Particularly small and particularly wicked looking , is what the maid calls him , said the officer . 
Mr. Utterson reflected and then , raising his head , If you will come with me in my cab , he said , I think I can take you to his house . 
It was by this time about nine in the morning , and the first fog of the season . 
This was the home of Henry Jekyll's favourite of a man who was heir to a quarter of a million sterling . 
An ivory faced and silvery haired old woman opened the door . 
She had an evil face , smoothed by hypocrisy but her manners were excellent . 
This is Inspector Newcomen of Scotland Yard . 
A flash of odious joy appeared upon the woman's face . 
Ah ! said she , he is in trouble ! What has he done ? Mr. Utterson and the inspector exchanged glances . 
He don't seem a very popular character , observed the latter . 
And now , my good woman , just let me and this gentleman have a look about us . 
from Henry Jekyll , who was much of a connoisseur and the carpets were of many plies and agreeable in colour . 
A visit to the bank , where several thousand pounds were found to be lying to the murderer's credit , completed his gratification . 
You may depend upon it , sir , he told Mr. Utterson I have him in my hand . 
He must have lost his head , or he never would have left the stick or , above all , burned the cheque book . 
Why , money's life to the man . 
We have nothing to do but wait for him at the bank , and get out the handbills . 
Only on one point were they agreed and that was the haunting sense of unexpressed deformity with which the fugitive impressed his beholders . 
Incident of the Letter It was late in the afternoon , when Mr. Utterson found his way to Dr . 
At the further end , a flight of stairs mounted to a door covered with red baize and through this , Mr. Utterson was at last received into the doctor's cabinet . 
Jekyll , looking deathly sick . 
He did not rise to meet his visitor , but held out a cold hand and bade him welcome in a changed voice . 
And now , said Mr. Utterson , as soon as Poole had left them , you have heard the news ? The doctor shuddered . 
They were crying it in the square , he said . 
I heard them in my dining room . 
One word , said the lawyer . 
Carew was my client , but so are you , and I want to know what I am doing . 
I bind my honour to you that I am done with him in this world . 
It is all at an end . 
The lawyer listened gloomily he did not like his friend's feverish manner . 
You seem pretty sure of him , said he and for your sake , I hope you may be right . 
If it came to a trial , your name might appear . 
I am quite sure of him , replied Jekyll I have grounds for certainty that I cannot share with any one . 
But there is one thing on which you may advise me . 
I have I have received a letter and I am at a loss whether I should show it to the police . 
I should like to leave it in your hands , Utterson you would judge wisely , I am sure I have so great a trust in you . 
You fear , I suppose , that it might lead to his detection ? asked the lawyer . 
No , said the other . 
I cannot say that I care what becomes of Hyde I am quite done with him . 
I was thinking of my own character , which this hateful business has rather exposed . 
Utterson ruminated awhile he was surprised at his friend's selfishness , and yet relieved by it . 
Well , said he , at last , let me see the letter . 
The letter was written in an odd , upright hand and signed Edward Hyde and it signified , briefly enough , that the writer's benefactor , Dr . 
The lawyer liked this letter well enough it put a better colour on the intimacy than he had looked for and he blamed himself for some of his past suspicions . 
Have you the envelope ? he asked . 
I burned it , replied Jekyll , before I thought what I was about . 
But it bore no postmark . 
The note was handed in . 
Shall I keep this and sleep upon it ? asked Utterson . 
I wish you to judge for me entirely , was the reply . 
I have lost confidence in myself . 
Well , I shall consider , returned the lawyer . 
I knew it , said Utterson . 
He meant to murder you . 
You had a fine escape . 
On his way out , the lawyer stopped and had a word or two with Poole . 
This news sent off the visitor with his fears renewed . 
The newsboys , as he went , were crying themselves hoarse along the footways Special edition . 
It was , at least , a ticklish decision that he had to make and self reliant as he was by habit , he began to cherish a longing for advice . 
It was not to be had directly but perhaps , he thought , it might be fished for . 
But the room was gay with firelight . 
There was no man from whom he kept fewer secrets than Mr. Guest and he was not always sure that he kept as many as he meant . 
This is a sad business about Sir Danvers , he said . 
Yes , sir , indeed . 
It has elicited a great deal of public feeling , returned Guest . 
The man , of course , was mad . 
I should like to hear your views on that , replied Utterson . 
I have a document here in his handwriting it is between ourselves , for I scarce know what to do about it it is an ugly business at the best . 
But there it is quite in your way a murderer's autograph . 
Guest's eyes brightened , and he sat down at once and studied it with passion . 
No sir , he said not mad but it is an odd hand . 
And by all accounts a very odd writer , added the lawyer . 
Just then the servant entered with a note . 
Jekyll , sir ? inquired the clerk . 
I thought I knew the writing . 
Anything private , Mr. Utterson ? Only an invitation to dinner . 
Why ? Do you want to see it ? One moment . 
I thank you , sir and the clerk laid the two sheets of paper alongside and sedulously compared their contents . 
Thank you , sir , he said at last , returning both it's a very interesting autograph . 
There was a pause , during which Mr. Utterson struggled with himself . 
Why did you compare them , Guest ? he inquired suddenly . 
Well , sir , returned the clerk , there's a rather singular resemblance the two hands are in many points identical only differently sloped . 
Rather quaint , said Utterson . 
It is , as you say , rather quaint , returned Guest . 
I wouldn't speak of this note , you know , said the master . 
No , sir , said the clerk . 
But no sooner was Mr. Utterson alone that night , than he locked the note into his safe , where it reposed from that time forward . 
Henry Jekyll forge for a murderer ! And his blood ran cold in his veins . 
The death of Sir Danvers was , to his way of thinking , more than paid for by the disappearance of Mr. Hyde . 
Now that that evil influence had been withdrawn , a new life began for Dr . 
On the th , and again on the th , the door was shut against the lawyer . 
The doctor was confined to the house , Poole said , and saw no one . 
The fifth night he had in Guest to dine with him and the sixth he betook himself to Dr . 
There at least he was not denied admittance but when he came in , he was shocked at the change which had taken place in the doctor's appearance . 
He had his death warrant written legibly upon his face . 
It was unlikely that the doctor should fear death and yet that was what Utterson was tempted to suspect . 
Yes , he thought he is a doctor , he must know his own state and that his days are counted and the knowledge is more than he can bear . 
And yet when Utterson remarked on his ill looks , it was with an air of great firmness that Lanyon declared himself a doomed man . 
I have had a shock , he said , and I shall never recover . 
It is a question of weeks . 
Well , life has been pleasant I liked it yes , sir , I used to like it . 
I sometimes think if we knew all , we should be more glad to get away . 
Jekyll is ill , too , observed Utterson . 
Have you seen him ? But Lanyon's face changed , and he held up a trembling hand . 
I wish to see or hear no more of Dr . 
Jekyll , he said in a loud , unsteady voice . 
I am quite done with that person and I beg that you will spare me any allusion to one whom I regard as dead . 
Tut tut , said Mr. Utterson and then after a considerable pause , Can't I do anything ? he inquired . 
We are three very old friends , Lanyon we shall not live to make others . 
Nothing can be done , returned Lanyon ask himself . 
He will not see me , said the lawyer . 
I am not surprised at that , was the reply . 
Some day , Utterson , after I am dead , you may perhaps come to learn the right and wrong of this . 
The quarrel with Lanyon was incurable . 
I do not blame our old friend , Jekyll wrote , but I share his view that we must never meet . 
I mean from henceforth to lead a life of extreme seclusion you must not be surprised , nor must you doubt my friendship , if my door is often shut even to you . 
You must suffer me to go my own dark way . 
I have brought on myself a punishment and a danger that I cannot name . 
If I am the chief of sinners , I am the chief of sufferers also . 
So great and unprepared a change pointed to madness but in view of Lanyon's manner and words , there must lie for it some deeper ground . 
Lanyon took to his bed , and in something less than a fortnight he was dead . 
I have buried one friend to day , he thought what if this should cost me another ? And then he condemned the fear as a disloyalty , and broke the seal . 
Within there was another enclosure , likewise sealed , and marked upon the cover as not to be opened till the death or disappearance of Dr . 
Utterson could not trust his eyes . 
But in the will , that idea had sprung from the sinister suggestion of the man Hyde it was set there with a purpose all too plain and horrible . 
He thought of him kindly but his thoughts were disquieted and fearful . 
Poole had , indeed , no very pleasant news to communicate . 
Utterson became so used to the unvarying character of these reports , that he fell off little by little in the frequency of his visits . 
Well , said Enfield , that story's at an end at least . 
We shall never see more of Mr. Hyde . 
I hope not , said Utterson . 
Did I ever tell you that I once saw him , and shared your feeling of repulsion ? It was impossible to do the one without the other , returned Enfield . 
And by the way , what an ass you must have thought me , not to know that this was a back way to Dr . 
Jekyll's ! It was partly your own fault that I found it out , even when I did . 
So you found it out , did you ? said Utterson . 
But if that be so , we may step into the court and take a look at the windows . 
To tell you the truth , I am uneasy about poor Jekyll and even outside , I feel as if the presence of a friend might do him good . 
The court was very cool and a little damp , and full of premature twilight , although the sky , high up overhead , was still bright with sunset . 
What ! Jekyll ! he cried . 
I trust you are better . 
I am very low , Utterson , replied the doctor drearily , very low . 
It will not last long , thank God . 
You stay too much indoors , said the lawyer . 
You should be out , whipping up the circulation like Mr. Enfield and me . 
Come now get your hat and take a quick turn with us . 
You are very good , sighed the other . 
I should like to very much but no , no , no , it is quite impossible I dare not . 
Why , then , said the lawyer , good naturedly , the best thing we can do is to stay down here and speak with you from where we are . 
That is just what I was about to venture to propose , returned the doctor with a smile . 
They saw it but for a glimpse for the window was instantly thrust down but that glimpse had been sufficient , and they turned and left the court without a word . 
They were both pale and there was an answering horror in their eyes . 
God forgive us , God forgive us , said Mr. Utterson . 
But Mr. Enfield only nodded his head very seriously , and walked on once more in silence . 
The Last Night Mr. Utterson was sitting by his fireside one evening after dinner , when he was surprised to receive a visit from Poole . 
Take a seat , and here is a glass of wine for you , said the lawyer . 
Now , take your time , and tell me plainly what you want . 
You know the doctor's ways , sir , replied Poole , and how he shuts himself up . 
Well , he's shut up again in the cabinet and I don't like it , sir I wish I may die if I like it . 
Mr. Utterson , sir , I'm afraid . 
Now , my good man , said the lawyer , be explicit . 
What are you afraid of ? I've been afraid for about a week , returned Poole , doggedly disregarding the question , and I can bear it no more . 
Even now , he sat with the glass of wine untasted on his knee , and his eyes directed to a corner of the floor . 
I can bear it no more , he repeated . 
Come , said the lawyer , I see you have some good reason , Poole I see there is something seriously amiss . 
Try to tell me what it is . 
I think there's been foul play , said Poole , hoarsely . 
Foul play ! cried the lawyer , a good deal frightened and rather inclined to be irritated in consequence . 
The wind made talking difficult , and flecked the blood into the face . 
It seemed to have swept the streets unusually bare of passengers , besides for Mr. Utterson thought he had never seen that part of London so deserted . 
The square , when they got there , was full of wind and dust , and the thin trees in the garden were lashing themselves along the railing . 
Well , sir , he said , here we are , and God grant there be nothing wrong . 
Amen , Poole , said the lawyer . 
What , what ? Are you all here ? said the lawyer peevishly . 
Very irregular , very unseemly your master would be far from pleased . 
They're all afraid , said Poole . 
Blank silence followed , no one protesting only the maid lifted her voice and now wept loudly . 
And now , continued the butler , addressing the knife boy , reach me a candle , and we'll get this through hands at once . 
And then he begged Mr. Utterson to follow him , and led the way to the back garden . 
Now , sir , said he , you come as gently as you can . 
I want you to hear , and I don't want you to be heard . 
And see here , sir , if by any chance he was to ask you in , don't go . 
Mr. Utterson , sir , asking to see you , he called and even as he did so , once more violently signed to the lawyer to give ear . 
A voice answered from within Tell him I cannot see anyone , it said complainingly . 
Changed ? Well , yes , I think so , said the butler . 
Suppose it were as you suppose , supposing Dr . 
Jekyll to have been well , murdered what could induce the murderer to stay ? That won't hold water it doesn't commend itself to reason . 
Well , Mr. Utterson , you are a hard man to satisfy , but I'll do it yet , said Poole . 
him , or it , whatever it is that lives in that cabinet , has been crying night and day for some sort of medicine and cannot get it to his mind . 
It was sometimes his way the master's , that is to write his orders on a sheet of paper and throw it on the stair . 
We've had nothing else this week back nothing but papers , and a closed door , and the very meals left there to be smuggled in when nobody was looking . 
Every time I brought the stuff back , there would be another paper telling me to return it , because it was not pure , and another order to a different firm . 
This drug is wanted bitter bad , sir , whatever for . 
Have you any of these papers ? asked Mr. Utterson . 
Poole felt in his pocket and handed out a crumpled note , which the lawyer , bending nearer to the candle , carefully examined . 
Its contents ran thus Dr . 
Jekyll presents his compliments to Messrs . 
He assures them that their last sample is impure and quite useless for his present purpose . 
In the year , Dr . 
J. purchased a somewhat large quantity from Messrs . 
M. He now begs them to search with most sedulous care , and should any of the same quality be left , forward it to him at once . 
The importance of this to Dr . 
J. can hardly be exaggerated . 
So far the letter had run composedly enough , but here with a sudden splutter of the pen , the writer's emotion had broken loose . 
For God's sake , he added , find me some of the old . 
This is unquestionably the doctor's hand , do you know ? resumed the lawyer . 
I thought it looked like it , said the servant rather sulkily and then , with another voice , But what matters hand of write ? he said . 
I've seen him ! Seen him ? repeated Mr. Utterson . 
Well ? That's it ! said Poole . 
I came suddenly into the theater from the garden . 
He looked up when I came in , gave a kind of cry , and whipped upstairs into the cabinet . 
It was but for one minute that I saw him , but the hair stood upon my head like quills . 
The man paused and passed his hand over his face . 
These are all very strange circumstances , said Mr. Utterson , but I think I begin to see daylight . 
Sir , said the butler , turning to a sort of mottled pallor , that thing was not my master , and there's the truth . 
My master here he looked round him and began to whisper is a tall , fine build of a man , and this was more of a dwarf . 
Jekyll God knows what it was , but it was never Dr . 
Jekyll and it is the belief of my heart that there was murder done . 
Poole , replied the lawyer , if you say that , it will become my duty to make certain . 
Ah , Mr. Utterson , that's talking ! cried the butler . 
And now comes the second question , resumed Utterson Who is going to do it ? Why , you and me , sir , was the undaunted reply . 
That's very well said , returned the lawyer and whatever comes of it , I shall make it my business to see you are no loser . 
There is an axe in the theatre , continued Poole and you might take the kitchen poker for yourself . 
The lawyer took that rude but weighty instrument into his hand , and balanced it . 
It is well , then that we should be frank , said the other . 
We both think more than we have said let us make a clean breast . 
I don't know , Mr. Utterson , if you ever met this Mr. Hyde ? Yes , said the lawyer , I once spoke with him . 
I own I felt something of what you describe , said Mr. Utterson . 
Quite so , sir , returned Poole . 
Well , when that masked thing like a monkey jumped from among the chemicals and whipped into the cabinet , it went down my spine like ice . 
My fears incline to the same point . 
Evil , I fear , founded evil was sure to come of that connection . 
is still lurking in his victim's room . 
Well , let our name be vengeance . 
The footman came at the summons , very white and nervous . 
Put yourself together , Bradshaw , said the lawyer . 
This suspense , I know , is telling upon all of you but it is now our intention to make an end of it . 
Poole , here , and I are going to force our way into the cabinet . 
If all is well , my shoulders are broad enough to bear the blame . 
We give you ten minutes , to get to your stations . 
As Bradshaw left , the lawyer looked at his watch . 
And now , Poole , let us get to ours , he said and taking the poker under his arm , led the way into the yard . 
The scud had banked over the moon , and it was now quite dark . 
London hummed solemnly all around but nearer at hand , the stillness was only broken by the sounds of a footfall moving to and fro along the cabinet floor . 
So it will walk all day , sir , whispered Poole ay , and the better part of the night . 
Only when a new sample comes from the chemist , there's a bit of a break . 
Is there never anything else ? he asked . 
Once I heard it weeping ! Weeping ? how that ? said the lawyer , conscious of a sudden chill of horror . 
Weeping like a woman or a lost soul , said the butler . 
I came away with that upon my heart , that I could have wept too . 
But now the ten minutes drew to an end . 
Jekyll , cried Utterson , with a loud voice , I demand to see you . 
He paused a moment , but there came no reply . 
Down with the door , Poole ! Poole swung the axe over his shoulder the blow shook the building , and the red baize door leaped against the lock and hinges . 
A dismal screech , as of mere animal terror , rang from the cabinet . 
The besiegers , appalled by their own riot and the stillness that had succeeded , stood back a little and peered in . 
Right in the middle there lay the body of a man sorely contorted and still twitching . 
They drew near on tiptoe , turned it on its back and beheld the face of Edward Hyde . 
We have come too late , he said sternly , whether to save or punish . 
Hyde is gone to his account and it only remains for us to find the body of your master . 
A corridor joined the theatre to the door on the by street and with this the cabinet communicated separately by a second flight of stairs . 
There were besides a few dark closets and a spacious cellar . 
All these they now thorougly examined . 
Each closet needed but a glance , for all were empty , and all , by the dust that fell from their doors , had stood long unopened . 
No where was there any trace of Henry Jekyll dead or alive . 
Poole stamped on the flags of the corridor . 
He must be buried here , he said , hearkening to the sound . 
Or he may have fled , said Utterson , and he turned to examine the door in the by street . 
It was locked and lying near by on the flags , they found the key , already stained with rust . 
This does not look like use , observed the lawyer . 
Do you not see , sir , it is broken ? much as if a man had stamped on it . 
Ay , continued Utterson , and the fractures , too , are rusty . 
The two men looked at each other with a scare . 
This is beyond me , Poole , said the lawyer . 
Let us go back to the cabinet . 
They mounted the stair in silence , and still with an occasional awestruck glance at the dead body , proceeded more thoroughly to examine the contents of the cabinet . 
That is the same drug that I was always bringing him , said Poole and even as he spoke , the kettle with a startling noise boiled over . 
This brought them to the fireside , where the easy chair was drawn cosily up , and the tea things stood ready to the sitter's elbow , the very sugar in the cup . 
Next , in the course of their review of the chamber , the searchers came to the cheval glass , into whose depths they looked with an involuntary horror . 
This glass has seen some strange things , sir , whispered Poole . 
And surely none stranger than itself , echoed the lawyer in the same tones . 
For what did Jekyll he caught himself up at the word with a start , and then conquering the weakness what could Jekyll want with it ? he said . 
You may say that ! said Poole . 
Next they turned to the business table . 
On the desk , among the neat array of papers , a large envelope was uppermost , and bore , in the doctor's hand , the name of Mr. Utterson . 
The lawyer unsealed it , and several enclosures fell to the floor . 
He looked at Poole , and then back at the paper , and last of all at the dead malefactor stretched upon the carpet . 
My head goes round , he said . 
He has been all these days in possession he had no cause to like me he must have raged to see himself displaced and he has not destroyed this document . 
He caught up the next paper it was a brief note in the doctor's hand and dated at the top . 
O Poole ! the lawyer cried , he was alive and here this day . 
I foresee that we may yet involve your master in some dire catastrophe . 
Why don't you read it , sir ? asked Poole . 
Because I fear , replied the lawyer solemnly . 
There was a third enclosure ? asked Utterson . 
Here , sir , said Poole , and gave into his hands a considerable packet sealed in several places . 
The lawyer put it in his pocket . 
I would say nothing of this paper . 
If your master has fled or is dead , we may at least save his credit . 
It is now ten I must go home and read these documents in quiet but I shall be back before midnight , when we shall send for the police . 
The contents increased my wonder for this is how the letter ran th December , . 
Lanyon my life , my honour , my reason , are all at your mercy if you fail me to night , I am lost . 
You might suppose , after this preface , that I am going to ask you for something dishonourable to grant . 
Poole , my butler , has his orders you will find him waiting your arrival with a locksmith . 
the third from the bottom . 
This drawer I beg of you to carry back with you to Cavendish Square exactly as it stands . 
That is the first part of the service now for the second . 
Then you will have played your part and earned my gratitude completely . 
Confident as I am that you will not trifle with this appeal , my heart sinks and my hand trembles at the bare thought of such a possibility . 
Serve me , my dear Lanyon and save Your friend , H. J. P. S. I had already sealed this up when a fresh terror struck upon my soul . 
It is possible that the post office may fail me , and this letter not come into your hands until to morrow morning . 
In that case , dear Lanyon , do my errand when it shall be most convenient for you in the course of the day and once more expect my messenger at midnight . 
It may then already be too late and if that night passes without event , you will know that you have seen the last of Henry Jekyll . 
Upon the reading of this letter , I made sure my colleague was insane but till that was proved beyond the possibility of doubt , I felt bound to do as he requested . 
I rose accordingly from table , got into a hansom , and drove straight to Jekyll's house . 
The butler was awaiting my arrival he had received by the same post as mine a registered letter of instruction , and had sent at once for a locksmith and a carpenter . 
The tradesmen came while we were yet speaking and we moved in a body to old Dr . 
Jekyll's private cabinet is most conveniently entered . 
But this last was a handy fellow , and after two hour's work , the door stood open . 
The press marked E was unlocked and I took out the drawer , had it filled up with straw and tied in a sheet , and returned with it to Cavendish Square . 
Here I proceeded to examine its contents . 
At the other ingredients I could make no guess . 
The book was an ordinary version book and contained little but a series of dates . 
These covered a period of many years , but I observed that the entries ceased nearly a year ago and quite abruptly . 
to no end of practical usefulness . 
Twelve o'clock had scarce rung out over London , ere the knocker sounded very gently on the door . 
I went myself at the summons , and found a small man crouching against the pillars of the portico . 
Are you come from Dr . 
He told me yes by a constrained gesture and when I had bidden him enter , he did not obey me without a searching backward glance into the darkness of the square . 
There was a policeman not far off , advancing with his bull's eye open and at the sight , I thought my visitor started and made greater haste . 
These particulars struck me , I confess , disagreeably and as I followed him into the bright light of the consulting room , I kept my hand ready on my weapon . 
Here , at last , I had a chance of clearly seeing him . 
I had never set eyes on him before , so much was certain . 
This bore some resemblance to incipient rigour , and was accompanied by a marked sinking of the pulse . 
Strange to relate , this ludicrous accoutrement was far from moving me to laughter . 
These observations , though they have taken so great a space to be set down in , were yet the work of a few seconds . 
My visitor was , indeed , on fire with sombre excitement . 
Have you got it ? he cried . 
Have you got it ? And so lively was his impatience that he even laid his hand upon my arm and sought to shake me . 
I put him back , conscious at his touch of a certain icy pang along my blood . 
Come , sir , said I. You forget that I have not yet the pleasure of your acquaintance . 
Be seated , if you please . 
I beg your pardon , Dr . 
Lanyon , he replied civilly enough . 
What you say is very well founded and my impatience has shown its heels to my politeness . 
I come here at the instance of your colleague , Dr . 
Henry Jekyll , on a piece of business of some moment and I understood . 
But here I took pity on my visitor's suspense , and some perhaps on my own growing curiosity . 
There it is , sir , said I , pointing to the drawer , where it lay on the floor behind a table and still covered with the sheet . 
Compose yourself , said I. He turned a dreadful smile to me , and as if with the decision of despair , plucked away the sheet . 
At sight of the contents , he uttered one loud sob of such immense relief that I sat petrified . 
And the next moment , in a voice that was already fairly well under control , Have you a graduated glass ? he asked . 
I rose from my place with something of an effort and gave him what he asked . 
He thanked me with a smiling nod , measured out a few minims of the red tincture and added one of the powders . 
Suddenly and at the same moment , the ebullition ceased and the compound changed to a dark purple , which faded again more slowly to a watery green . 
And now , said he , to settle what remains . 
But I have gone too far in the way of inexplicable services to pause before I see the end . 
It is well , replied my visitor . 
Lanyon , you remember your vows what follows is under the seal of our profession . 
As for the moral turpitude that man unveiled to me , even with tears of penitence , I can not , even in memory , dwell on it without a start of horror . 
will be more than enough . 
I say two , because the state of my own knowledge does not pass beyond that point . 
I , for my part , from the nature of my life , advanced infallibly in one direction and in one direction only . 
It was the curse of mankind that these incongruous faggots were thus bound together that in the agonised womb of consciousness , these polar twins should be continuously struggling . 
I began to perceive more deeply than it has ever yet been stated , the trembling immateriality , the mistlike transience , of this seemingly so solid body in which we walk attired . 
Certain agents I found to have the power to shake and pluck back that fleshly vestment , even as a wind might toss the curtains of a pavilion . 
For two good reasons , I will not enter deeply into this scientific branch of my confession . 
Second , because , as my narrative will make , alas ! too evident , my discoveries were incomplete . 
I hesitated long before I put this theory to the test of practice . 
But the temptation of a discovery so singular and profound at last overcame the suggestions of alarm . 
The most racking pangs succeeded a grinding in the bones , deadly nausea , and a horror of the spirit that cannot be exceeded at the hour of birth or death . 
Then these agonies began swiftly to subside , and I came to myself as if out of a great sickness . 
There was something strange in my sensations , something indescribably new and , from its very novelty , incredibly sweet . 
I stretched out my hands , exulting in the freshness of these sensations and in the act , I was suddenly aware that I had lost in stature . 
I must here speak by theory alone , saying not that which I know , but that which I suppose to be most probable . 
The evil side of my nature , to which I had now transferred the stamping efficacy , was less robust and less developed than the good which I had just deposed . 
And hence , as I think , it came about that Edward Hyde was so much smaller , slighter and younger than Henry Jekyll . 
Even as good shone upon the countenance of the one , evil was written broadly and plainly on the face of the other . 
had left on that body an imprint of deformity and decay . 
And yet when I looked upon that ugly idol in the glass , I was conscious of no repugnance , rather of a leap of welcome . 
This , too , was myself . 
It seemed natural and human . 
In my eyes it bore a livelier image of the spirit , it seemed more express and single , than the imperfect and divided countenance I had been hitherto accustomed to call mine . 
And in so far I was doubtless right . 
I have observed that when I wore the semblance of Edward Hyde , none could come near to me at first without a visible misgiving of the flesh . 
That night I had come to the fatal cross roads . 
At that time my virtue slumbered my evil , kept awake by ambition , was alert and swift to seize the occasion and the thing that was projected was Edward Hyde . 
The movement was thus wholly toward the worse . 
Even at that time , I had not conquered my aversions to the dryness of a life of study . 
undignified , and I was not only well known and highly considered , but growing towards the elderly man , this incoherency of my life was daily growing more unwelcome . 
It was on this side that my new power tempted me until I fell in slavery . 
I had but to drink the cup , to doff at once the body of the noted professor , and to assume , like a thick cloak , that of Edward Hyde . 
I smiled at the notion it seemed to me at the time to be humourous and I made my preparations with the most studious care . 
I took and furnished that house in Soho , to which Hyde was tracked by the police and engaged as a housekeeper a creature whom I knew well to be silent and unscrupulous . 
was to have full liberty and power about my house in the square and to parry mishaps , I even called and made myself a familiar object , in my second character . 
I next drew up that will to which you so much objected so that if anything befell me in the person of Dr . 
Jekyll , I could enter on that of Edward Hyde without pecuniary loss . 
And thus fortified , as I supposed , on every side , I began to profit by the strange immunities of my position . 
Men have before hired bravos to transact their crimes , while their own person and reputation sat under shelter . 
I was the first that ever did so for his pleasures . 
But for me , in my impenetrable mantle , the safely was complete . 
The pleasures which I made haste to seek in my disguise were , as I have said , undignified I would scarce use a harder term . 
But in the hands of Edward Hyde , they soon began to turn toward the monstrous . 
When I would come back from these excursions , I was often plunged into a kind of wonder at my vicarious depravity . 
Henry Jekyll stood at times aghast before the acts of Edward Hyde but the situation was apart from ordinary laws , and insidiously relaxed the grasp of conscience . 
It was Hyde , after all , and Hyde alone , that was guilty . 
Jekyll was no worse he woke again to his good qualities seemingly unimpaired he would even make haste , where it was possible , to undo the evil done by Hyde . 
And thus his conscience slumbered . 
I have no design of entering I mean but to point out the warnings and the successive steps with which my chastisement approached . 
I met with one accident which , as it brought on no consequence , I shall no more than mention . 
I was still so engaged when , in one of my more wakeful moments , my eyes fell upon my hand . 
was professional in shape and size it was large , firm , white and comely . 
It was the hand of Edward Hyde . 
At the sight that met my eyes , my blood was changed into something exquisitely thin and icy . 
Yes , I had gone to bed Henry Jekyll , I had awakened Edward Hyde . 
Jekyll had returned to his own shape and was sitting down , with a darkened brow , to make a feint of breakfasting . 
Small indeed was my appetite . 
The power of the drug had not been always equally displayed . 
All things therefore seemed to point to this that I was slowly losing hold of my original and better self , and becoming slowly incorporated with my second and worse . 
Between these two , I now felt I had to choose . 
My two natures had memory in common , but all other faculties were most unequally shared between them . 
Jekyll had more than a father's interest Hyde had more than a son's indifference . 
To cast in my lot with Jekyll , was to die to those appetites which I had long secretly indulged and had of late begun to pamper . 
To cast it in with Hyde , was to die to a thousand interests and aspirations , and to become , at a blow and forever , despised and friendless . 
Yet it was by these that I was punished . 
My devil had been long caged , he came out roaring . 
I was conscious , even when I took the draught , of a more unbridled , a more furious propensity to ill . 
Instantly the spirit of hell awoke in me and raged . 
Hyde had a song upon his lips as he compounded the draught , and as he drank it , pledged the dead man . 
The veil of self indulgence was rent from head to foot . 
As the acuteness of this remorse began to die away , it was succeeded by a sense of joy . 
The problem of my conduct was solved . 
It was not only a crime , it had been a tragic folly . 
I think I was glad to know it I think I was glad to have my better impulses thus buttressed and guarded by the terrors of the scaffold . 
Jekyll was now my city of refuge let but Hyde peep out an instant , and the hands of all men would be raised to take and slay him . 
I resolved in my future conduct to redeem the past and I can say with honesty that my resolve was fruitful of some good . 
There comes an end to all things the most capacious measure is filled at last and this brief condescension to my evil finally destroyed the balance of my soul . 
And yet I was not alarmed the fall seemed natural , like a return to the old days before I had made my discovery . 
And at the very moment of that vainglorious thought , a qualm came over me , a horrid nausea and the most deadly shuddering . 
I looked down my clothes hung formlessly on my shrunken limbs the hand that lay on my knee was corded and hairy . 
I was once more Edward Hyde . 
My reason wavered , but it did not fail me utterly . 
I set myself to solve . 
The laboratory door I had closed . 
If I sought to enter by the house , my own servants would consign me to the gallows . 
I saw I must employ another hand , and thought of Lanyon . 
Thereupon , I arranged my clothes as best I could , and summoning a passing hansom , drove to an hotel in Portland Street , the name of which I chanced to remember . 
the driver could not conceal his mirth . 
Hyde in danger of his life was a creature new to me shaken with inordinate anger , strung to the pitch of murder , lusting to inflict pain . 
He , I say I cannot say , I. That child of Hell had nothing human nothing lived in him but fear and hatred . 
He walked fast , hunted by his fears , chattering to himself , skulking through the less frequented thoroughfares , counting the minutes that still divided him from midnight . 
Once a woman spoke to him , offering , I think , a box of lights . 
He smote her in the face , and she fled . 
A change had come over me . 
It was no longer the fear of the gallows , it was the horror of being Hyde that racked me . 
I received Lanyon's condemnation partly in a dream it was partly in a dream that I came home to my own house and got into bed . 
I slept after the prostration of the day , with a stringent and profound slumber which not even the nightmares that wrung me could avail to break . 
I awoke in the morning shaken , weakened , but refreshed . 
The powers of Hyde seemed to have grown with the sickliness of Jekyll . 
And certainly the hate that now divided them was equal on each side . 
With Jekyll , it was a thing of vital instinct . 
The hatred of Hyde for Jekyll was of a different order . 
My provision of the salt , which had never been renewed since the date of the first experiment , began to run low . 
I sent out for a fresh supply and mixed the draught the ebullition followed , and the first change of colour , not the second I drank it and it was without efficiency . 
About a week has passed , and I am now finishing this statement under the influence of the last of the old powders . 
And indeed the doom that is closing on us both has already changed and crushed him . 
and give ear to every sound of menace . 
Here then , as I lay down the pen and proceed to seal up my confession , I bring the life of that unhappy Henry Jekyll to an end . 
