HOLE IN THE DAY INDIAN HEROES AND GREAT CHIEFTAINS RED CLOUD EVERY age , every race , has its leaders and heroes . 
There were over sixty distinct tribes of Indians on this continent , each of which boasted its notable men . 
The names and deeds of some of these men will live in American history , yet in the true sense they are unknown , because misunderstood . 
This powerful tribe then roamed over the whole extent of the Mississippi valley , between that river and the Rockies . 
Their usages and government united the various bands more closely than was the case with many of the neighboring tribes . 
After these , we have a coterie of new leaders , products of the new conditions brought about by close contact with the conquering race . 
It is a singular fact that many of the chiefs , well known as such to the American public , were not chiefs at all according to the accepted usages of their tribesmen . 
Their prominence was simply the result of an abnormal situation , in which representatives of the United States Government made use of them for a definite purpose . 
Red Cloud was born about near the forks of the Platte River . 
He was one of a family of nine children whose father , an able and respected warrior , reared his son under the old Spartan regime . 
This last trait , together with a singularly musical and agreeable voice , has always been characteristic of the man . 
The little fellow , instead of going for advice and help to his grandfather , as most Indian boys would have done , began quietly to practice throwing the lariat . 
In a little while he was able to lasso the colt . 
He was dragged off his feet at once , but hung on , and finally managed to picket him near the teepee . 
When the big boys drove the herd of ponies to water , he drove his colt with the rest . 
Presently the pony became used to him and allowed himself to be handled . 
From that time on he told me that he broke all his own ponies , and before long his father's as well . 
The old men , his contemporaries , have often related to me how Red Cloud was always successful in the hunt because his horses were so well broken . 
At the age of nine , he began to ride his father's pack pony upon the buffalo hunt . 
The furious animal tossed his massive head sidewise , and boy and horse were whirled into the air . 
Fortunately , the boy was thrown on the farther side of his pony , which received the full force of the second attack . 
I once asked Red Cloud if he could recall having ever been afraid , and in reply he told me this story . 
Red Cloud had followed a single buffalo bull into the Bad Lands and was out of sight and hearing of his companions . 
Every few minutes he paused in his work to scrutinize the landscape , for he had a feeling that danger was not far off . 
Suddenly , almost over his head , as it seemed , he heard a tremendous war whoop , and glancing sidewise , thought he beheld the charge of an overwhelming number of warriors . 
His subsequent career would indicate that the lesson was well learned . 
The future leader was still a very young man when he joined a war party against the Utes . 
Having pushed eagerly forward on the trail , he found himself far in advance of his companions as night came on , and at the same time rain began to fall heavily . 
Among the scattered scrub pines , the lone warrior found a natural cave , and after a hasty examination , he decided to shelter there for the night . 
Scarcely had he rolled himself in his blanket when he heard a slight rustling at the entrance , as if some creature were preparing to share his retreat . 
He could see nothing , but judged that it must be either a man or a grizzly . 
There was not room to draw a bow . 
It must be between knife and knife , or between knife and claws , he said to himself . 
The intruder made no search but quietly lay down in the opposite corner of the cave . 
Red Cloud remained perfectly still , scarcely breathing , his hand upon his knife . 
Hour after hour he lay broad awake , while many thoughts passed through his brain . 
Suddenly , without warning , he sneezed , and instantly a strong man sprang to a sitting posture opposite . 
The first gray of morning was creeping into their rocky den , and behold ! a Ute hunter sat before him . 
Desperate as the situation appeared , it was not without a grim humor . 
Neither could afford to take his eyes from the other's the tension was great , till at last a smile wavered over the expressionless face of the Ute . 
Red Cloud answered the smile , and in that instant a treaty of peace was born between them . 
Put your knife in its sheath . 
I shall do so also , and we will smoke together , signed Red Cloud . 
The other assented gladly , and they ratified thus the truce which assured to each a safe return to his friends . 
Having finished their smoke , they shook hands and separated . 
Neither had given the other any information . 
Red Cloud returned to his party and told his story , adding that he had divulged nothing and had nothing to report . 
Some were inclined to censure him for not fighting , but he was sustained by a majority of the warriors , who commended his self restraint . 
The old things were fast giving place to new . 
The Ogallalas held aloof from this proposal , but Bear Bull , an Ogallala chief , after having been plied with whisky , undertook to dictate submission to the rest of the clan . 
Enraged by failure , he fired upon a group of his own tribesmen , and Red Cloud's father and brother fell dead . 
According to Indian custom , it fell to him to avenge the deed . 
Calmly , without uttering a word , he faced old Bear Bull and his son , who attempted to defend his father , and shot them both . 
He did what he believed to be his duty , and the whole band sustained him . 
From this time on he was a recognized leader . 
Man Afraid of His Horse , then head chief of the Ogallalas , took council with Red Cloud in all important matters , and the young warrior rapidly advanced in authority and influence . 
In , when he was barely thirty five years old , the various bands were again encamped near Fort Laramie . 
A Mormon emigrant train , moving westward , left a footsore cow behind , and the young men killed her for food . 
The next day , to their astonishment , an officer with thirty men appeared at the Indian camp and demanded of old Conquering Bear that they be given up . 
The chief in vain protested that it was all a mistake and offered to make reparation . 
The old chief refused to be intimidated and was shot dead on the spot . 
Not one soldier ever reached the gate of Fort Laramie ! Here Red Cloud led the young Ogallalas , and so intense was the feeling that they even killed the half breed interpreter . 
In , a grave outbreak was precipitated by the eastern Sioux in Minnesota under Little Crow , in which the western bands took no part . 
Yet this event ushered in a new period for their race . 
Red Cloud's position was uncompromisingly against submission . 
Friends , said Red Cloud , it has been our misfortune to welcome the white man . 
But I wish to say to you that if you would possess these things for yourselves , you must begin anew and put away the wisdom of your fathers . 
You must lay up food , and forget the hungry . 
The tension of feeling against the invaders had now reached its height . 
There was no dissenting voice in the council upon the Powder River , when it was decided to oppose to the uttermost the evident purpose of the government . 
Red Cloud was not altogether ignorant of the numerical strength and the resourcefulness of the white man , but he was determined to face any odds rather than submit . 
Hear ye , Dakotas ! he exclaimed . 
Our old chiefs thought to show their friendship and good will , when they allowed this dangerous snake in our midst . 
They promised to protect the wayfarers . 
Yet before the ashes of the council fire are cold , the Great Father is building his forts among us . 
You have heard the sound of the white soldier's ax upon the Little Piney . 
His presence here is an insult and a threat . 
It is an insult to the spirits of our ancestors . 
Every detail of the attack had been planned with care , though not without heated discussion , and nearly every well known Sioux chief had agreed in striking the blow . 
The brilliant young war leader , Crazy Horse , was appointed to lead the charge . 
His lieutenants were Sword , Hump , and Dull Knife , with Little Chief of the Cheyennes , while the older men acted as councilors . 
In less than half an hour , they had cut down nearly a hundred men under Captain Fetterman , whom they drew out of the fort by a ruse and then annihilated . 
Instead of sending troops to punish , the government sent a commission to treat with the Sioux . 
The result was the famous treaty of , which Red Cloud was the last to sign , having refused to do so until all of the forts within their territory should be vacated . 
Scarcely was this treaty signed , however , when gold was discovered in the Black Hills , and the popular cry was Remove the Indians ! This was easier said than done . 
It was this state of affairs that led to the last great speech made by Red Cloud , at a gathering upon the Little Rosebud River . 
It is brief , and touches upon the hopelessness of their future as a race . 
He seems at about this time to have reached the conclusion that resistance could not last much longer in fact , the greater part of the Sioux nation was already under government control . 
We are told , said he , that Spotted Tail has consented to be the Beggars' Chief . 
As for me , I have listened patiently to the promises of the Great Father , but his memory is short . 
I am now done with him . 
This is all I have to say . 
The wilder bands separated soon after this council , to follow the drift of the buffalo , some in the vicinity of the Black Hills and others in the Big Horn region . 
Small war parties came down from time to time upon stray travelers , who received no mercy at their hands , or made dashes upon neighboring forts . 
Red Cloud claimed the right to guard and hold by force , if need be , all this territory which had been conceded to his people by the treaty of . 
The land became a very nest of outlawry . 
Aside from organized parties of prospectors , there were bands of white horse thieves and desperadoes who took advantage of the situation to plunder immigrants and Indians alike . 
After much guerrilla warfare , an important military campaign against the Sioux was set on foot in , ending in Custer's signal defeat upon the Little Big Horn . 
In this notable battle , Red Cloud did not participate in person , nor in the earlier one with Crook upon the Little Rosebud , but he had a son in both fights . 
But the inevitable end was near . 
One morning in the fall of Red Cloud was surrounded by United States troops under the command of Colonel McKenzie , who disarmed his people and brought them into Fort Robinson , Nebraska . 
Thence they were removed to the Pine Ridge agency , where he lived for more than thirty years as a reservation Indian . 
In order to humiliate him further , government authorities proclaimed the more tractable Spotted Tail head chief of the Sioux . 
Of course , Red Cloud's own people never recognized any other chief . 
He was already an old man , and became almost entirely blind before his death in in his ninetieth year . 
His private life was exemplary . 
He was faithful to one wife all his days , and was a devoted father to his children . 
He was ambitious for his only son , known as Jack Red Cloud , and much desired him to be a great warrior . 
He started him on the warpath at the age of fifteen , not then realizing that the days of Indian warfare were well nigh at an end . 
SPOTTED TAIL Among the Sioux chiefs of the transition period only one was shrewd enough to read coming events in their true light . 
Thus he was somewhat at a disadvantage among the other boys yet even this fact may have helped to develop in him courage and ingenuity . 
One little incident of his boy life , occurring at about his tenth year , is characteristic of the man . 
In the midst of a game , two boys became involved in a dispute which promised to be a serious one , as both drew knives . 
The young Spotted Tail instantly began to cry , The Shoshones are upon us ! To arms ! to arms ! and the other boys joined in the war whoop . 
This distracted the attention of the combatants and ended the affair . 
It is known , however , that he began at an early age to carve out a position for himself . 
It is personal qualities alone that tell among our people , and the youthful Spotted Tail gained at every turn . 
At the age of seventeen , he had become a sure shot and a clever hunter but , above all , he had already shown that he possessed a superior mind . 
He was accustomed to watch closely and listen attentively whenever any of this strange race had dealings with his people . 
Yet it was not long before he had achieved his ambition , though in doing so he received several ugly wounds . 
It was in a battle with the Utes that he first notably served his people and their cause . 
The Utes were the attacking party and far outnumbered the Sioux on this occasion . 
The Sioux pursued on horseback and it was in this pursuit that the noted chief Two Strike gained his historical name . 
But the chief honors of the fight belonged to Spotted Tail . 
The old chiefs , Conquering Bear and the rest , thanked him and at once made him a war chief . 
No sooner had the Oregon Trail been secured from the Sioux than Fort Laramie and other frontier posts were strengthened , and the soldiers became more insolent and overbearing than ever . 
It was soon discovered that the whites were prepared to violate most of the articles of their treaty as the Indians understood it . 
Every summer there were storm clouds blowing between these two clouds usually taking their rise in some affair of the travelers along the trail . 
In an event occurred which has already been described and which snapped the last link of friendship between the races . 
By this time Spotted Tail had proved his courage both abroad and at home . 
He had fought a duel with one of the lesser chiefs , by whom he was attacked . 
He killed his opponent with an arrow , but himself received upon his head a blow from a battle axe which brought him senseless to the ground . 
He was left for dead , but fortunately revived just as the men were preparing his body for burial . 
The Brules sustained him in this quarrel , as he had acted in self defense and for a few years he led them in bloody raids against the whites along the historic trail . 
He ambushed many stagecoaches and emigrant trains , and was responsible for waylaying the Kincaid coach with twenty thousand dollars . 
This relentless harrying of travelers soon brought General Harney to the Brule Sioux to demand explanations and reparation . 
The old chiefs of the Brules now appealed to Spotted Tail and his young warriors not to bring any general calamity upon the tribe . 
To the surprise of all , Spotted Tail declared that he would give himself up . 
He therefore voluntarily surrendered to General Harney , and two of his lieutenants , Red Leaf and Old Woman , followed his example . 
Thus Spotted Tail played an important part at the very outset of those events which were soon to overthrow the free life of his people . 
Thus suddenly he found himself in prison , a hostage for the good behavior of his followers . 
There were many rumors as to the punishment reserved for him but luckily for Spotted Tail , the promises of General Harney to the Brule chiefs in respect to him were faithfully kept . 
One of his fellow prisoners committed suicide , but the other held out bravely for the two year term of his imprisonment . 
During the second year , it was well understood that neither of the men sought to escape , and they were given much freedom . 
One day some Indian horse thieves of another tribe stampeded the horses and mules belonging to the garrison . 
Spotted Tail asked permission of the commanding officer to accompany the pursuers . 
When they returned to the fort without him , everybody agreed that he would never turn up . 
He had made good use of his two years at the fort , and completed his studies of civilization to his own satisfaction . 
From this time on he was desirous of reconciling the Indian and the white man , thoroughly understanding the uselessness of opposition . 
He was accordingly in constant communication with the military but the other chiefs did not understand his views and seem to have been suspicious of his motives . 
It was , however , reported at the post that these two men had maltreated the women while under their care . 
A pitched battle was fought , in which the soldiers got the worst of it . 
Even the associate chief , Big Mouth , was against Spotted Tail , who was practically forced against his will and judgment to take up arms once more . 
Spotted Tail at about this time seems to have conceived the idea of uniting all the Rocky Mountain Indians in a great confederacy . 
We can imagine that he threw all his wonderful tact and personal magnetism into this last effort at conciliation . 
'Hay , hay , hay ! Alas , alas ! Thus speaks the old man , when he knows that his former vigor and freedom is gone from him forever . 
So we may exclaim to day , Alas ! There is a time appointed to all things . 
Yet note how the decay of one nation invigorates another . 
This strange white man consider him , his gifts are manifold ! His tireless brain , his busy hand do wonders for his race . 
Those things which we despise he holds as treasures yet he is so great and so flourishing that there must be some virtue and truth in his philosophy . 
I wish to say to you , my friends Be not moved alone by heated arguments and thoughts of revenge ! These are for the young . 
We are young no longer let us think well , and give counsel as old men ! These words were greeted with an ominous silence . 
The situation was critical for Spotted Tail the only man present to advocate submission to the stronger race whose ultimate supremacy he recognized as certain . 
The decision to attack Fort Phil Kearny was unanimous without him , and in order to hold his position among his tribesmen he joined in the charge . 
Several bullets passed through his war bonnet , and he was slightly wounded . 
He often puzzled and embarrassed them by his remarkable speeches , the pointed questions that he put , and his telling allusions to former negotiations . 
Meanwhile Red Cloud would not come into the council until after several deputations of Indians had been sent to him , and Sitting Bull did not come at all . 
The famous treaty was signed , and from this time on Spotted Tail never again took up arms against the whites . 
On the contrary , it was mainly attributed to his influence that the hostiles were subdued much sooner than might have been expected . 
He came into the reservation with his band , urged his young men to enlist as government scouts , and assisted materially in all negotiations . 
, which was called Spotted Tail Agency . 
The name of Spotted Tail was prominently before the people during the rest of his life . 
An obscure orphan , he had achieved distinction by his bravery and sagacity but he copied the white politician too closely after he entered the reservation . 
He became a good manipulator , and was made conceited and overbearing by the attentions of the military and of the general public . 
Furthermore , there was an old feud in his immediate band which affected him closely . 
These two men had hoped that one or the other of them might obtain the succession . 
Thus retribution lay in wait for him while at the height of his fame . 
Several high handed actions of his at this time , including his elopement with another man's wife , increased his unpopularity with a large element of his own tribe . 
Such was the end of the man who may justly be called the Pontiac of the west . 
It was on account of his father's name , mistranslated Crow , that he was called by the whites Little Crow . 
His real name was Taoyateduta , His Red People . 
inhabited the Mille Lacs region . 
Later they dwelt about St . 
Croix Falls , and still later near St . 
In , Cetanwakuwa was still living in what is now West St . 
Paul , but he was soon after killed by the accidental discharge of his gun . 
It was during a period of demoralization for the Kaposias that Little Crow became the leader of his people . 
His father , a well known chief , had three wives , all from different bands of the Sioux . 
He was the only son of the first wife , a Leaf Dweller . 
Two kegs of whisky were bought , and all the men of the tribe invited to a feast . 
It was planned to pick some sort of quarrel when all were drunk , and in the confusion Little Crow was to be murdered . 
The plot went smoothly until the last instant , when a young brave saved the intended victim by knocking the gun aside with his hatchet , so that the shot went wild . 
However , it broke his right arm , which remained crooked all his life . 
Such was the opening of a stormy career . 
My son , she would say , if you are to be a leader of men , you must listen in silence to the mystery , the spirit . 
At a very early age she made a feast for her boy and announced that he would fast two days . 
This is what might be called a formal presentation to the spirit or God . 
She greatly desired him to become a worthy leader according to the ideas of her people . 
It appears that she left her husband when he took a second wife , and lived with her own band till her death . 
She did not marry again . 
Little Crow was an intensely ambitious man and without physical fear . 
He was always in perfect training and early acquired the art of warfare of the Indian type . 
It is told of him that when he was about ten years old , he engaged with other boys in a sham battle on the shore of a lake near St . 
Both sides were encamped at a little distance from one another , and the rule was that the enemy must be surprised , otherwise the attack would be considered a failure . 
One must come within so many paces undiscovered in order to be counted successful . 
It is said that he also broke in , but both boys saved themselves by means of the line . 
As a young man , Little Crow was always ready to serve his people as a messenger to other tribes , a duty involving much danger and hardship . 
He was also known as one of the best hunters in his band . 
At this juncture in the history of the northwest and its native inhabitants , the various fur companies had paramount influence . 
Little Crow became quite popular with post traders and factors . 
He was an orator as well as a diplomat , and one of the first of his nation to indulge in politics and promote unstable schemes to the detriment of his people . 
At that period , these visiting chiefs , attired in all the splendor of their costumes of ceremony , were treated like ambassadors from foreign countries . 
There were present a number of Senators and members of Congress , as well as judges of the Supreme Court , cabinet officers , and other distinguished citizens . 
In other words , this is a warriors' feast , a braves' meal . 
I call upon the Ojibway chief , the Hole in the Day , to give the lone wolf's hunger call , after which we will join him in our usual manner . 
On one occasion Little Crow was invited by the commander of Fort Ridgeley , Minnesota , to call at the fort . 
His companion Ross was killed , but he managed to hold the war party at bay until help came and thus saved his life . 
More and more as time passed , this naturally brave and ambitious man became a prey to the selfish interests of the traders and politicians . 
The immediate causes of the Sioux outbreak of came in quick succession to inflame to desperate action an outraged people . 
The two bands on the so called lower reservations in Minnesota were Indians for whom nature had provided most abundantly in their free existence . 
They had signed the treaty under pressure , believing in these promises on the faith of a great nation . 
However , on entering the new life , the resources so rosily described to them failed to materialize . 
Many families faced starvation every winter , their only support the store of the Indian trader , who was baiting his trap for their destruction . 
Very gradually they awoke to the facts . 
Little Crow made the greatest mistake of his life when he signed this agreement . 
Meanwhile , to make matters worse , the cash annuities were not paid for nearly two years . 
When it was learned that the traders had taken all of the ninety eight thousand dollars on account , there was very bitter feeling . 
In fact , the heads of the leading stores were afraid to go about as usual , and most of them stayed in St . 
Little Crow was justly held in part responsible for the deceit , and his life was not safe . 
The murder of a white family near Acton , Minnesota , by a party of Indian duck hunters in August , , precipitated the break . 
Messengers were sent to every village with the news , and at the villages of Little Crow and Little Six the war council was red hot . 
It was proposed to take advantage of the fact that north and south were at war to wipe out the white settlers and to regain their freedom . 
A few men stood out against such a desperate step , but the conflagration had gone beyond their control . 
, fought desperately for the lives of the half breeds and the missionaries . 
The chiefs had great confidence in my father , yet they would not commit themselves , since their braves were clamoring for blood . 
There were moments when the pacifists were in grave peril . 
It was almost daybreak when my father saw that the approaching calamity could not be prevented . 
He and two others said to Little Crow If you want war , you must personally lead your men to morrow . 
We will not murder women and children , but we will fight the soldiers when they come . 
They then left the council and hastened to warn my brother in law , Faribault , and others who were in danger . 
He ordered his war leader , Many Hail , to fire the first shot , killing the trader James Lynd , in the door of his store . 
There was now a price upon his head , but he planned to reach St . 
Paul undetected and there surrender himself to his friends , who he hoped would protect him in return for past favors . 
It is true that he had helped them to secure perhaps the finest country held by any Indian nation for a mere song . 
He left Canada with a few trusted friends , including his youngest and favorite son . 
When within two or three days' journey of St . 
Paul , he told the others to return , keeping with him only his son , Wowinape , who was but fifteen years of age . 
He meant to steal into the city by night and go straight to Governor Ramsey , who was his personal friend . 
He was very hungry and was obliged to keep to the shelter of the deep woods . 
The next morning , as he was picking and eating wild raspberries , he was seen by a wood chopper named Lamson . 
The man did not know who he was . 
He only knew that he was an Indian , and that was enough for him , so he lifted his rifle to his shoulder and fired , then ran at his best pace . 
The brilliant but misguided chief , who had made that part of the country unsafe for any white man to live in , sank to the ground and died without a struggle . 
Meanwhile Lamson reached home breathless and made his report . 
TAMAHAY There was once a Sioux brave who declared that he would die young , yet not by his own hand . 
Tamahay was of heroic proportions , herculean in strength , a superb runner in fact , he had all the physical qualities of an athlete or a typical Indian . 
In his scanty dress , he was beautiful as an antique statue in living bronze . 
When a mere youth , seventeen years of age , he met with an accident which determined his career . 
It was the loss of an eye , a fatal injury to the sensitive and high spirited Indian . 
He announced his purpose in these words The 'Great Mystery' has decreed that I must be disgraced . 
There will be no pleasure for me now , and I shall be ridiculed even by my enemies . 
It will be well for me to enter soon into Paradise , for I shall be happy in spending my youth there . 
But I will sell my life dearly . 
Hereafter my name shall be spoken in the traditions of our race . 
With this speech Tamahay began his career . 
He now sought glory and defied danger with even more than the ordinary Indian recklessness . 
He accepted a personal friend , which was a custom among the Sioux , where each man chose a companion for life and death . 
The tie was stronger than one of blood relationship , a friendship sealed by solemn vow and covenant . 
Tamahay's intimate was fortunately almost his equal in physical powers , and the pair became the terror of neighboring tribes , with whom the Dakotas were continually at war . 
They made frequent raids upon their enemies and were usually successful , although not without thrilling experiences and almost miraculous escapes . 
Upon one of these occasions the two friends went north into the country of the Ojibways . 
After many days' journey , they discovered a small village of the foe . 
The handsome strangers were well received by the Ojibway girls , but their perilous amusement was brought to an untimely close . 
A young maiden prematurely discovered their true characters , and her cry of alarm brought instantly to her side a jealous youth , who had been watching them from his place of concealment . 
With him Tamahay had a single handed contest , and before a general alarm was given he had dispatched the foe and fled with his scalp . 
The unfortunate brave had been a favorite and a leader among the tribe therefore the maddened Ojibways were soon in hot pursuit . 
The Sioux braves were fine runners , yet they were finally driven out upon the peninsula of a lake . 
As they became separated in their retreat , Tamahay shouted , I'll meet you at the mouth of the St . 
Croix River , or in the spirit land ! Both managed to swim the lake , and so made good their escape . 
The exploits of this man were not all of a warlike nature . 
He was a great traveler and an expert scout , and he had some wonderful experiences with wild animals . 
He was once sent , with his intimate friend , on a scout for game . 
They located a herd of buffaloes , and on their return to the camp espied a lonely buffalo . 
Tamahay suggested that they should chase it in order to take some fresh meat , as the law of the tribe allowed in the case of a single animal . 
His pony stumbled and threw him , after they had wounded the bison , and the latter attacked the dismounted man viciously . 
But he , as usual , was on the alert . 
He took the bull by the horns , as the saying is , and cleverly straddled him on the neck . 
The buffalo had no means of harming his enemy , but pawed the earth and struggled until his strength was exhausted , when the Indian used his knife on the animal's throat . 
On account of this feat he received the name Held the Bull by the Horns . 
The origin of his name Tamahay is related as follows . 
When he was a young man he accompanied the chief Wabashaw to Mackinaw , Michigan , together with some other warriors . 
He was out with his friend one day , viewing the wonderful sights in the white man's country , when they came upon a sow with her numerous pink little progeny . 
He was greatly amused and picked up one of the young pigs , but as soon as it squealed the mother ran furiously after them . 
On account of this watery adventure he was at once called Tamahay , meaning Pike . 
Tamahay assisted this officer in obtaining land from the Sioux upon which to build Fort Snelling . 
He appears in history under the name of Tahamie or the One Eyed Sioux . 
Always ready to brave danger and unpopularity , Tamahay was the only Sioux who sided with the United States in her struggle with Great Britain in . 
At one time he was confined in a fort called McKay , where now stands the town of Prairie du Chien , Wisconsin . 
He had just returned from St . 
Louis , and was suspected of exciting his people to rebel against British subjects . 
His life was even threatened , but to this Tamahay merely replied that he was ready to die . 
For this brave act he was rewarded with a present of a flag and medal . 
The Sioux long referred to the president of the United States as Tamahay's father . 
The following story is told of him in his later days . 
Later in the day a company of soldiers appeared in the Indian village , and escorted our hero to a sort of court martial at the fort . 
I did the latter , thinking that you would need the man more than the gun . 
Finally the officer said to them , I see you are both partly wrong . 
In a moment the bluecoat was down , amid shouts and peals of laughter from his comrades . 
Having thrown his man , the other turned and went home without a word . 
It is told of him that he was treated one winter's day to a drink of whisky in a trader's store . 
He afterwards went home but even the severe blizzard which soon arose did not prevent him from returning in the night to the friendly trader . 
He awoke that worthy from sleep about twelve o'clock by singing his death dirge upon the roof of the log cabin . 
In another moment he had jumped down the mud chimney , and into the blazing embers of a fire . 
The trader had to pour out to him some whisky in a tin pail , after which he begged the old man to be good and go home . 
These are some of his words , as reported to me by persons who were present . 
I stand before you on three legs , but the third leg has brought me wisdom referring to the staff with which he sup ported himself . 
I have traveled much , I have visited among the people whom you think to defy . 
This means the total surrender of our beautiful land , the land of a thousand lakes and streams . 
Behold the great Pontiac , whose grave I saw near St . 
It is supposed that this speech was his last , and it was made , though vainly , in defense of the Americans whom he had loved . 
He died at Fort Pierre , South Dakota , in . 
His people say that he died a natural death , of old age . 
And yet his exploits are not forgotten . 
The westward pressure of civilization during the past three centuries has been tremendous . 
When our hemisphere was discovered , it had been inhabited by the natives for untold ages , but it was held undiscovered because the original owners did not chart or advertise it . 
It was a soul development leading to essential manhood . 
Under this system they brought forth some striking characters . 
Gall was considered by both Indians and whites to be a most impressive type of physical manhood . 
From his picture you can judge of this for yourself . 
Let us follow his trail . 
He never asked a soft place for himself . 
He always played the game according to the rules and to a finish . 
To be sure , like every other man , he made some mistakes , but he was an Indian and never acted the coward . 
The earliest stories told of his life and doings indicate the spirit of the man in that of the boy . 
, intrusted her boy to an old Eskimo pack dog , experienced and reliable , except perhaps when unduly excited or very thirsty . 
On the day of removing camp the caravan made its morning march up the Powder River . 
as the moving village slowly progressed . 
As usual at such times , the trail was wide . 
An old jack rabbit had waited too long in hiding . 
Now , finding himself almost surrounded by the mighty plains people , he sprang up suddenly , his feathery ears conspicuously erect , a dangerous challenge to the dogs and the people . 
Every dog accepted the challenge . 
Forgotten were the bundles , the kits , even the babies they were drawing or carrying . 
The chase was on , and the screams of the women reechoed from the opposite cliffs of the Powder , mingled with the yelps of dogs and the neighing of horses . 
The hand of every man was against the daring warrior , the lone Jack , and the confusion was great . 
When the fleeing one cleared the mass of his enemies , he emerged with a swiftness that commanded respect and gave promise of a determined chase . 
Behind him , his pursuers stretched out in a thin line , first the speedy , unburdened dogs and then the travois dogs headed by the old Eskimo with his precious freight . 
The youthful Gall was in a travois , a basket mounted on trailing poles and harnessed to the sides of the animal . 
Hey ! hey ! they are gaining on him ! a warrior shouted . 
At this juncture two of the canines had almost nabbed their furry prey by the back . 
But he was too cunning for them . 
He dropped instantly and sent both dogs over his head , rolling and spinning , then made another flight at right angles to the first . 
This gave the Eskimo a chance to cut the triangle . 
He gained fifty yards , but being heavily handicapped , two unladen dogs passed him . 
He was losing speed , but likewise his pursuers were dropping off steadily . 
His black eyes were bulging almost out of their sockets his long hair flowed out behind like a stream of dark water . 
Each leap brought him nearer , fiercer and more determined . 
she screamed as she drew near . 
The boy seemed to be none the worse for his experience . 
Here , my grandson , give your friend something to drink . 
How , hechetu , pronounced an old warrior no longer in active service . 
This may be only an accident , an ordinary affair but such things sometimes indicate a career . 
The boy has had a wonderful ride . 
I prophesy that he will one day hold the attention of all the people with his doings . 
This is the first remembered story of the famous chief , but other boyish exploits foretold the man he was destined to be . 
He fought many sham battles , some successful and others not but he was always a fierce fighter and a good loser . 
Once he was engaged in a battle with snowballs . 
There were probably nearly a hundred boys on each side , and the rule was that every fair hit made the receiver officially dead . 
He must not participate further , but must remain just where he was struck . 
Gall's side was fast losing , and the battle was growing hotter every minute when the youthful warrior worked toward an old water hole and took up his position there . 
His side was soon annihilated and there were eleven men left to fight him . 
He was pressed close in the wash out , and as he dodged under cover before a volley of snowballs , there suddenly emerged in his stead a huge gray wolf . 
His opponents fled in every direction in superstitious terror , for they thought he had been transformed into the animal . 
The boys always looked upon this incident as an omen . 
Gall had an amiable disposition but was quick to resent insult or injustice . 
This sometimes involved him in difficulties , but he seldom fought without good cause and was popular with his associates . 
One of his characteristics was his ability to organize , and this was a large factor in his leadership when he became a man . 
He was tried in many ways , and never was known to hesitate when it was a question of physical courage and endurance . 
He entered the public service early in life , but not until he had proved himself competent and passed all tests . 
When a mere boy , he was once scouting for game in midwinter , far from camp , and was overtaken by a three days' blizzard . 
He was forced to abandon his horse and lie under the snow for that length of time . 
He afterward said he was not particularly hungry it was thirst and stiffness from which he suffered most . 
One reason the Indian so loved his horse or dog was that at such times the animal would stay by him like a brother . 
On this occasion Gall's pony was not more than a stone's throw away when the storm subsided and the sun shone . 
There was a herd of buffalo in plain sight , and the young hunter was not long in procuring a meal . 
This chief's contemporaries still recall his wrestling match with the equally powerful Cheyenne boy , Roman Nose , who afterward became a chief well known to American history . 
It was a custom of the northwestern Indians , when two friendly tribes camped together , to establish the physical and athletic supremacy of the youth of the respective camps . 
The Che hoo hoo is a wrestling game in which there may be any number on a side , but the numbers are equal . 
All the boys of each camp are called together by a leader chosen for the purpose and draw themselves up in line of battle then each at a given signal attacks his opponent . 
In this memorable contest , Matohinshda , or Gall , was placed opposite Roman Nose . 
The whole people turned out as spectators of the struggle , and the battlefield was a plateau between the two camps , in the midst of picturesque Bad Lands . 
There were many athletic youths present , but these two were really the Apollos of the two tribes . 
In this kind of sport it is not allowed to strike with the hand , nor catch around the neck , nor kick , nor pull by the hair . 
One may break away and run a few yards to get a fresh start , or clinch , or catch as catch can . 
When a boy is thrown and held to the ground , he is counted out . 
If a boy has met his superior , he may drop to the ground to escape rough handling , but it is very seldom one gives up without a full trial of strength . 
It seemed almost like a real battle , so great was the enthusiasm , as the shouts of sympathizers on both sides went up in a mighty chorus . 
At last all were either conquerors or subdued except Gall and Roman Nose . 
The pair seemed equally matched . 
Both were stripped to the breech clout , now tugging like two young buffalo or elk in mating time , again writhing and twisting like serpents . 
At times they fought like two wild stallions , straining every muscle of arms , legs , and back in the struggle . 
Every now and then one was lifted off his feet for a moment , but came down planted like a tree , and after swaying to and fro soon became rigid again . 
All eyes were upon the champions . 
Shout after shout went up on the Sioux side of the camp . 
The mother of Roman Nose came forward and threw a superbly worked buffalo robe over Gall , whose mother returned the compliment by covering the young Cheyenne with a handsome blanket . 
Undoubtedly these early contests had their influence upon our hero's career . 
It was his habit to appear most opportunely in a crisis , and in a striking and dramatic manner to take command of the situation . 
The best known example of this is his entrance on the scene of confusion when Reno surprised the Sioux on the Little Big Horn . 
Many of the excitable youths , almost unarmed , rushed madly and blindly to meet the intruder , and the scene might have unnerved even an experienced warrior . 
It was Gall , with not a garment upon his superb body , who on his black charger dashed ahead of the boys and faced them . 
He stopped them on the dry creek , while the bullets of Reno's men whistled about their ears . 
Sitting Bull had confidence in his men so long as Gall planned and directed the attack , whether against United States soldiers or the warriors of another tribe . 
He was a strategist , and able in a twinkling to note and seize upon an advantage . 
He was really the mainstay of Sitting Bull's effective last stand . 
He consistently upheld his people's right to their buffalo plains and believed that they should hold the government strictly to its agreements with them . 
When the treaty of was disregarded , he agreed with Sitting Bull in defending the last of their once vast domain , and after the Custer battle entered Canada with his chief . 
They hoped to bring their lost cause before the English government and were much disappointed when they were asked to return to the United States . 
Gall finally reported at Fort Peck , Montana , in , and brought half of the Hunkpapa band with him , whereupon he was soon followed by Sitting Bull himself . 
From this point they were returned to Standing Rock agency . 
When Buffalo Bill successfully launched his first show , he made every effort to secure both Sitting Bull and Gall for his leading attractions . 
The military was in complete accord with him in this , for they still had grave suspicions of these two leaders . 
While Sitting Bull reluctantly agreed , Gall haughtily said I am not an animal to be exhibited before the crowd , and retired to his teepee . 
His spirit was much worn , and he lost strength from that time on . 
That superb manhood dwindled , and in a few years he died . 
He was a real hero of a free and natural people , a type that is never to be seen again . 
CRAZY HORSE Crazy Horse was born on the Republican River about . 
He was killed at Fort Robinson , Nebraska , in , so that he lived barely thirty three years . 
He was an uncommonly handsome man . 
While not the equal of Gall in magnificence and imposing stature , he was physically perfect , an Apollo in symmetry . 
Furthermore he was a true type of Indian refinement and grace . 
He was modest and courteous as Chief Joseph the difference is that he was a born warrior , while Joseph was not . 
However , he was a gentle warrior , a true brave , who stood for the highest ideal of the Sioux . 
Notwithstanding all that biased historians have said of him , it is only fair to judge a man by the estimate of his own people rather than that of his enemies . 
The boyhood of Crazy Horse was passed in the days when the western Sioux saw a white man but seldom , and then it was usually a trader or a soldier . 
He was carefully brought up according to the tribal customs . 
At such times the parents often gave so generously to the needy that they almost impoverished themselves , thus setting an example to the child of self denial for the general good . 
Big heartedness , generosity , courage , and self denial are the qualifications of a public servant , and the average Indian was keen to follow this ideal . 
As every one knows , these characteristic traits become a weakness when he enters a life founded upon commerce and gain . 
Under such conditions the life of Crazy Horse began . 
His mother , like other mothers , tender and watchful of her boy , would never once place an obstacle in the way of his father's severe physical training . 
They laid the spiritual and patriotic foundations of his education in such a way that he early became conscious of the demands of public service . 
He was perhaps four or five years old when the band was snowed in one severe winter . 
They were very short of food , but his father was a tireless hunter . 
The buffalo , their main dependence , were not to be found , but he was out in the storm and cold every day and finally brought in two antelopes . 
The little boy got on his pet pony and rode through the camp , telling the old folks to come to his mother's teepee for meat . 
It turned out that neither his father nor mother had authorized him to do this . 
Before they knew it , old men and women were lined up before the teepee home , ready to receive the meat , in answer to his invitation . 
As a result , the mother had to distribute nearly all of it , keeping only enough for two meals . 
On the following day the child asked for food . 
You must live up to your reputation . 
Crazy Horse loved horses , and his father gave him a pony of his own when he was very young . 
He became a fine horseman and accompanied his father on buffalo hunts , holding the pack horses while the men chased the buffalo and thus gradually learning the art . 
In those days the Sioux had but few guns , and the hunting was mostly done with bow and arrows . 
They came to some wild cherry trees full of ripe fruit , and while they were enjoying it , the brothers were startled by the growl and sudden rush of a bear . 
As soon as he could , however , he turned him about and came back , yelling and swinging his lariat over his head . 
The bear at first showed fight but finally turned and ran . 
The old man who told me this story added that young as he was , he had some power , so that even a grizzly did not care to tackle him . 
Then these wild children would enjoy a mimic hunt , and lasso the calves or drive them into camp . 
Crazy Horse was found to be a determined little fellow , and it was settled one day among the larger boys that they would stump him to ride a good sized bull calf . 
At the age of sixteen he joined a war party against the Gros Ventres . 
Suddenly Hump's horse was shot from under him , and there was a rush of warriors to kill or capture him while down . 
At this period of his life , as was customary with the best young men , he spent much time in prayer and solitude . 
He loved Hump , that peerless warrior , and the two became close friends , in spite of the difference in age . 
Men called them the grizzly and his cub . 
Again and again the pair saved the day for the Sioux in a skirmish with some neighboring tribe . 
But one day they undertook a losing battle against the Snakes . 
The Sioux were in full retreat and were fast being overwhelmed by superior numbers . 
The old warrior fell in a last desperate charge but Crazy Horse and his younger brother , though dismounted , killed two of the enemy and thus made good their retreat . 
In attempting this very feat , he lost this only brother of his , who emulated him closely . 
The leader escaped without a scratch , but his young brother was brought down from his horse and killed . 
He had in one winter day killed ten buffalo cows with his bow and arrows , and the unsuccessful hunters or those who had no swift ponies were made happy by his generosity . 
When the hunters returned , these came chanting songs of thanks . 
He knew that his father was an expert hunter and had a good horse , so he took no meat home , putting in practice the spirit of his early teaching . 
He attained his majority at the crisis of the difficulties between the United States and the Sioux . 
Even before that time , Crazy Horse had already proved his worth to his people in Indian warfare . 
He had risked his life again and again , and in some instances it was considered almost a miracle that he had saved others as well as himself . 
He was no orator nor was he the son of a chief . 
His success and influence was purely a matter of personality . 
He had never fought the whites up to this time , and indeed no coup was counted for killing or scalping a white man . 
met in council to determine upon their future policy toward the invader . 
Their former agreements had been by individual bands , each for itself , and every one was friendly . 
They reasoned that the country was wide , and that the white traders should be made welcome . 
Up to this time they had anticipated no conflict . 
They had permitted the Oregon Trail , but now to their astonishment forts were built and garrisoned in their territory . 
Most of the chiefs advocated a strong resistance . 
There were a few influential men who desired still to live in peace , and who were willing to make another treaty . 
Among these were White Bull , Two Kettle , Four Bears , and Swift Bear . 
Even Spotted Tail , afterward the great peace chief , was at this time with the majority , who decided in the year to defend their rights and territory by force . 
Attacks were to be made upon the forts within their country and on every trespasser on the same . 
Crazy Horse took no part in the discussion , but he and all the young warriors were in accord with the decision of the council . 
Although so young , he was already a leader among them . 
The success of this stratagem was further enhanced by his masterful handling of his men . 
Yet during the following ten years of defensive war he was never known to make a speech , though his teepee was the rendezvous of the young men . 
He was depended upon to put into action the decisions of the council , and was frequently consulted by the older chiefs . 
He won from Custer and Fetterman and Crook . 
Early in the year , his runners brought word from Sitting Bull that all the roving bands would converge upon the upper Tongue River in Montana for summer feasts and conferences . 
There was conflicting news from the reservation . 
It was rumored that the army would fight the Sioux to a finish again , it was said that another commission would be sent out to treat with them . 
The Indians came together early in June , and formed a series of encampments stretching out from three to four miles , each band keeping separate camp . 
On June , scouts came in and reported the advance of a large body of troops under General Crook . 
The council sent Crazy Horse with seven hundred men to meet and attack him . 
These were nearly all young men , many of them under twenty , the flower of the hostile Sioux . 
They set out at night so as to steal a march upon the enemy , but within three or four miles of his camp they came unexpectedly upon some of his Crow scouts . 
There was a hurried exchange of shots the Crows fled back to Crook's camp , pursued by the Sioux . 
The soldiers had their warning , and it was impossible to enter the well protected camp . 
Again and again Crazy Horse charged with his bravest men , in the attempt to bring the troops into the open , but he succeeded only in drawing their fire . 
Toward afternoon he withdrew , and returned to camp disappointed . 
His scouts remained to watch Crook's movements , and later brought word that he had retreated to Goose Creek and seemed to have no further disposition to disturb the Sioux . 
It is well known to us that it is Crook rather than Reno who is to be blamed for cowardice in connection with Custer's fate . 
Here , with all their precautions , they were caught unawares by General Custer , in the midst of their midday games and festivities , while many were out upon the daily hunt . 
Here and there stood out a large , white , solitary teepee these were the lodges or clubs of the young men . 
Crazy Horse was a member of the Strong Hearts and the Tokala or Fox lodge . 
He was watching a game of ring toss when the warning came from the southern end of the camp of the approach of troops . 
The Sioux and the Cheyennes were minute men , and although taken by surprise , they instantly responded . 
Meanwhile , the women and children were thrown into confusion . 
Custer must have seen that wonderful dash up the sage bush plain , and one wonders whether he realized its meaning . 
In this dashing charge , Crazy Horse snatched his most famous victory out of what seemed frightful peril , for the Sioux could not know how many were behind Custer . 
He was caught in his own trap . 
To the soldiers it must have seemed as if the Indians rose up from the earth to overwhelm them . 
They closed in from three sides and fought until not a white man was left alive . 
Then they went down to Reno's stand and found him so well intrenched in a deep gully that it was impossible to dislodge him . 
Gall and his men held him there until the approach of General Terry compelled the Sioux to break camp and scatter in different directions . 
His name was held in wholesome respect . 
From time to time , delegations of friendly Indians were sent to him , to urge him to come in to the reservation , promising a full hearing and fair treatment . 
For some time he held out , but the rapid disappearance of the buffalo , their only means of support , probably weighed with him more than any other influence . 
At this juncture General Crook proclaimed Spotted Tail , who had rendered much valuable service to the army , head chief of the Sioux , which was resented by many . 
The attention paid Crazy Horse was offensive to Spotted Tail and the Indian scouts , who planned a conspiracy against him . 
They reported to General Crook that the young chief would murder him at the next council , and stampede the Sioux into another war . 
He was urged not to attend the council and did not , but sent another officer to represent him . 
Meanwhile the friends of Crazy Horse discovered the plot and told him of it . 
His reply was , Only cowards are murderers . 
Under these circumstances Crazy Horse again showed his masterful spirit by holding these young men in check . 
He said to them in his quiet way It is well to be brave in the field of battle it is cowardly to display bravery against one's own tribesmen . 
These scouts have been compelled to do what they did they are no better than servants of the white officers . 
I came here on a peaceful errand . 
The captain urged him to report at army headquarters to explain himself and correct false rumors , and on his giving consent , furnished him with a wagon and escort . 
It has been said that he went back under arrest , but this is untrue . 
Indians have boasted that they had a hand in bringing him in , but their stories are without foundation . 
He went of his own accord , either suspecting no treachery or determined to defy it . 
When he reached the military camp , Little Big Man walked arm in arm with him , and his cousin and friend , Touch the Cloud , was just in advance . 
After they passed the sentinel , an officer approached them and walked on his other side . 
He was unarmed but for the knife which is carried for ordinary uses by women as well as men . 
He stopped and tried to free himself and draw his knife , but both arms were held fast by Little Big Man and the officer . 
While he struggled thus , a soldier thrust him through with his bayonet from behind . 
They hid it somewhere in the Bad Lands , his resting place to this day . 
Thus died one of the ablest and truest American Indians . 
His life was ideal his record clean . 
He was never involved in any of the numerous massacres on the trail , but was a leader in practically every open fight . 
Such characters as those of Crazy Horse and Chief Joseph are not easily found among so called civilized people . 
SITTING BULL IT is not easy to characterize Sitting Bull , of all Sioux chiefs most generally known to the American people . 
There are few to whom his name is not familiar , and still fewer who have learned to connect it with anything more than the conventional notion of a bloodthirsty savage . 
The man was an enigma at best . 
He was not impulsive , nor was he phlegmatic . 
He was most serious when he seemed to be jocose . 
He was gifted with the power of sarcasm , and few have used it more artfully than he . 
His father was one of the best known members of the Unkpapa band of Sioux . 
The manner of this man's death was characteristic . 
One day , when the Unkpapas were attacked by a large war party of Crows , he fell upon the enemy's war leader with his knife . 
In a hand to hand combat of this sort , we count the victor as entitled to a war bonnet of trailing plumes . 
It means certain death to one or both . 
In this case , both men dealt a mortal stroke , and Jumping Buffalo , the father of Sitting Bull , fell from his saddle and died in a few minutes . 
The other died later from the effects of the wound . 
Sitting Bull's boyhood must have been a happy one . 
It was long after the day of the dog travaux , and his father owned many ponies of variegated colors . 
It was said of him in a joking way that his legs were bowed like the ribs of the ponies that he rode constantly from childhood . 
He had also a common nickname that was much to the point . 
It was Hunkeshnee , which means Slow , referring to his inability to run fast , or more probably to the fact that he seldom appeared on foot . 
In their boyish games he was wont to take the part of the old man , but this does not mean that he was not active and brave . 
It is told that after a buffalo hunt the boys were enjoying a mimic hunt with the calves that had been left behind . 
The boys shouted He has subdued the buffalo calf ! He made it sit down ! And from this incident was derived his familiar name of Sitting Bull . 
It is a mistake to suppose that Sitting Bull , or any other Indian warrior , was of a murderous disposition . 
It is true that savage warfare had grown more and more harsh and cruel since the coming of white traders among them , bringing guns , knives , and whisky . 
Yet it was still regarded largely as a sort of game , undertaken in order to develop the manly qualities of their youth . 
While the spoils of war were allowed , this did not extend to territorial aggrandizement , nor was there any wish to overthrow another nation and enslave its people . 
It was a point of honor in the old days to treat a captive with kindness . 
The common impression that the Indian is naturally cruel and revengeful is entirely opposed to his philosophy and training . 
The revengeful tendency of the Indian was aroused by the white man . 
True morality is more easily maintained in connection with the simple life . 
You must accept the truth that you demoralize any race whom you have subjugated . 
From this point of view we shall consider Sitting Bull's career . 
To be sure , he did not learn his lessons from books . 
This is second hand information at best . 
All that he learned he verified for himself and put into daily practice . 
In personal appearance he was rather commonplace and made no immediate impression , but as he talked he seemed to take hold of his hearers more and more . 
He was bull headed quick to grasp a situation , and not readily induced to change his mind . 
He was not suspicious until he was forced to be so . 
All his meaner traits were inevitably developed by the events of his later career . 
Sitting Bull's history has been written many times by newspaper men and army officers , but I find no account of him which is entirely correct . 
I met him personally in , and since his death I have gone thoroughly into the details of his life with his relatives and contemporaries . 
It has often been said that he was a physical coward and not a warrior . 
Judge of this for yourselves from the deed which first gave him fame in his own tribe , when he was about twenty eight years old . 
But the Crow merely poked his empty gun into his face and dodged back under cover . 
Then Sitting Bull stopped he saw that no one had followed him , and he also perceived that the enemy had no more ammunition left . 
He rode deliberately up to the barrier and threw his loaded gun over it then he went back to his party and told them what he thought of them . 
Now , said he , I have armed him , for I will not see a brave man killed unarmed . 
I will strike him again with my coup staff to count the first feather who will count the second ? Again he led the charge , and this time they all followed him . 
Sitting Bull was severely wounded by his own gun in the hands of the enemy , who was killed by those that came after him . 
This is a record that so far as I know was never made by any other warrior . 
The second incident that made him well known was his taking of a boy captive in battle with the Assiniboines . 
He saved this boy's life and adopted him as his brother . 
Hohay , as he was called , was devoted to Sitting Bull and helped much in later years to spread his fame . 
Sitting Bull was a born diplomat , a ready speaker , and in middle life he ceased to go upon the warpath , to become the councilor of his people . 
When Sitting Bull was a boy , there was no thought of trouble with the whites . 
All the early records show this friendly attitude of the Sioux , and the great fur companies for a century and a half depended upon them for the bulk of their trade . 
It was not until the middle of the last century that they woke up all of a sudden to the danger threatening their very existence . 
The drunkards and hangers on were ready to sell almost anything they had for the favor of the trader . 
The better and stronger element held aloof . 
They would not have anything of the white man except his hatchet , gun , and knife . 
As early as , the Ogallalas and Brules had trouble with the soldiers near Fort Laramie and again in Inkpaduta massacred several families of settlers at Spirit Lake , Iowa . 
While among his own people he was always affable and genial , he became boastful and domineering in his dealings with the hated race . 
He once remarked that if we wish to make any impression upon the pale face , it is necessary to put on his mask . 
I will give it in brief as it has been several times repeated to me by men who were present . 
Yet hear me , friends ! we have now to deal with another people , small and feeble when our forefathers first met with them , but now great and overbearing . 
Strangely enough , they have a mind to till the soil , and the love of possessions is a disease in them . 
They claim this mother of ours , the Earth , for their own use , and fence their neighbors away from her , and deface her with their buildings and their refuse . 
They compel her to produce out of season , and when sterile she is made to take medicine in order to produce again . 
This nation is like a spring freshet it overruns its banks and destroys all who are in its path . 
We cannot dwell side by side . 
Only seven years ago we made a treaty by which we were assured that the buffalo country should be left to us forever . 
Now they threaten to take that from us also . 
It may be said without fear of contradiction that Sitting Bull never killed any women or children . 
He was a fair fighter , and while not prominent in battle after his young manhood , he was the brains of the Sioux resistance . 
He has been called a medicine man and a dreamer . 
Strictly speaking , he was neither of these , and the white historians are prone to confuse the two . 
A medicine man is a doctor or healer a dreamer is an active war prophet who leads his war party according to his dream or prophecy . 
What is called by whites making medicine in war time is again a wrong conception . 
No one can make any medicine to affect the result of a battle , although it has been said that Sitting Bull did this at the battle of the Little Big Horn . 
When Custer and Reno attacked the camp at both ends , the chief was caught napping . 
The village was in danger of surprise , and the women and children must be placed in safety . 
Like other men of his age , Sitting Bull got his family together for flight , and then joined the warriors on the Reno side of the attack . 
Thus he was not in the famous charge against Custer nevertheless , his voice was heard exhorting the warriors throughout that day . 
During the autumn of , after the fall of Custer , Sitting Bull was hunted all through the Yellowstone region by the military . 
The following characteristic letter , doubtless written at his dictation by a half breed interpreter , was sent to Colonel Otis immediately after a daring attack upon his wagon train . 
I want to know what you are doing , traveling on this road . 
You scare all the buffalo away . 
I want to hunt in this place . 
I want you to turn back from here . 
If you don't , I will fight you again . 
I want you to leave what you have got here and turn back from here . 
I am your friend Sitting Bull . 
I mean all the rations you have got and some powder . 
Wish you would write me as soon as you can . 
Otis , however , kept on and joined Colonel Miles , who followed Sitting Bull with about four hundred soldiers . 
He overtook him at last on Cedar Creek , near the Yellowstone , and the two met midway between the lines for a parley . 
The army report says Sitting Bull wanted peace in his own way . 
The truth was that he wanted nothing more than had been guaranteed to them by the treaty of the exclusive possession of their last hunting ground . 
This the government was not now prepared to grant , as it had been decided to place all the Indians under military control upon the various reservations . 
Here he was joined from time to time by parties of malcontents from the reservation , driven largely by starvation and ill treatment to seek another home . 
He first refused to meet them at all , and only did so when advised to that effect by Major Walsh of the Canadian mounted police . 
This was his characteristic remark If you have one honest man in Washington , send him here and I will talk to him . 
It was , after all , to hunger and not to the strong arm of the military that he surrendered in the end . 
They made good progress much better , in fact , than that of the coffee coolers or loafer Indians , received the missionaries kindly and were soon a church going people . 
When the Commissions of and came to treat with the Sioux for a further cession of land and a reduction of their reservations , nearly all were opposed to consent on any terms . 
At the same time , rations were cut down , and there was general hardship and dissatisfaction . 
At this crisis a strange thing happened . 
This curious story spread like wildfire and met with eager acceptance among the suffering and discontented people . 
The teachings of Christian missionaries had prepared them to believe in a Messiah , and the prescribed ceremonial was much more in accord with their traditions than the conventional worship of the churches . 
These police are enlisted from among the tribesmen at each agency , and have proved uniformly brave and faithful . 
They harangued the crowd in vain Sitting Bull's blood was up , and he again appealed to his men . 
His adopted brother , the Assiniboine captive whose life he had saved so many years before , was the first to fire . 
His shot killed Lieutenant Bull Head , who held Sitting Bull by the arm . 
Then there was a short but sharp conflict , in which Sitting Bull and six of his defenders and six of the Indian police were slain , with many more wounded . 
The chief's young son , Crow Foot , and his devoted brother died with him . 
Thus ended the life of a natural strategist of no mean courage and ability . 
The great chief was buried without honors outside the cemetery at the post , and for some years the grave was marked by a mere board at its head . 
Recently some women have built a cairn of rocks there in token of respect and remembrance . 
It had been my experience that you cannot induce an Indian to tell a story , or even his own name , by asking him directly . 
At home , by the fireside , when the old men were asked to tell their brave deeds , again the pipe was passed . 
So come , let us smoke now to the memory of the old days ! He took of my tobacco and filled his long pipe , and we smoked . 
Then I told an old mirthful story to get him in the humor of relating his own history . 
The old man lay upon an iron bedstead , covered by a red blanket , in a corner of the little log cabin . 
He was all alone that day only an old dog lay silent and watchful at his master's feet . 
I was born near the forks of the Cheyenne River , about seventy years ago . 
My father was not a chief my grandfather was not a chief , but a good hunter and a feast maker . 
On my mother's side I had some noted ancestors , but they left me no chieftainship . 
I had to work for my reputation . 
When I was a boy , I loved to fight , he continued . 
In all our boyish games I had the name of being hard to handle , and I took much pride in the fact . 
I was about ten years old when we encountered a band of Cheyennes . 
We stole some of their horses , but were overtaken and had to abandon the horses and fight for our lives . 
I had wished my face to represent the sun when partly covered with darkness , so I painted it half black , half red . 
We fought all day in the rain , and my face was partly washed and streaked with red and black so again I was christened Rain in the Face . 
We considered it an honorable name . 
I had been on many warpaths , but was not especially successful until about the time the Sioux began to fight with the white man . 
One of the most daring attacks that we ever made was at Fort Totten , North Dakota , in the summer of . 
Hohay , the Assiniboine captive of Sitting Bull , was the leader in this raid . 
Wapaypay , the Fearless Bear , who was afterward hanged at Yankton , was the bravest man among us . 
He dared Hohay to make the charge . 
Hohay accepted the challenge , and in turn dared the other to ride with him through the agency and right under the walls of the fort , which was well garrisoned and strong . 
Wapaypay and I in those days called each other 'brother friend . 
It was a life and death vow . 
I painted as usual like an eclipse of the sun , half black and half red . 
His eyes gleamed and his face lighted up remarkably as he talked , pushing his black hair back from his forehead with a nervous gesture . 
This was bad for me , for by that time the soldiers had somewhat recovered from the surprise and were aiming better . 
Their big gun was like a toothless old dog , who only makes himself hotter the more noise he makes , he remarked with some humor . 
There was blood running down my leg , and I found that both my horse and I were slightly wounded . 
Some two years later we attacked a fort west of the Black Hills Fort Phil Kearny , Wyoming . 
It was there we killed one hundred soldiers . 
Of course such men as I were then comparatively unknown . 
However , there were many noted young warriors , among them Sword , the younger Young Man Afraid , American Horse afterward chief , Crow King , and others . 
This was the plan decided upon after many councils . 
The main war party lay in ambush , and a few of the bravest young men were appointed to attack the woodchoppers who were cutting logs to complete the building of the fort . 
This attack was hastened because most of the Sioux on the Missouri River and eastward had begun to talk of suing for peace . 
But even this did not stop the peace movement . 
Even with this agreement Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse were not satisfied , and they would not sign . 
Up to this time I had fought in some important battles , but had achieved no great deed . 
I was ambitious to make a name for myself . 
I joined war parties against the Crows , Mandans , Gros Ventres , and Pawnees , and gained some little distinction . 
I must say here that the chiefs who were loudest for war were among the first to submit and accept reservation life . 
Ugh ! he would have stayed with Sitting Bull to the last had it not been for his ambition . 
We did this to discourage the whites from coming into our country without our permission . 
It was the duty of our Great Father at Washington , by the agreement of , to keep his white children away . 
I had not yet become noted for any great deed . 
Finally , Wapaypay and I waylaid and killed a white soldier on his way from the fort to his home in the east . 
There were a few Indians who were liars , and never on the warpath , playing 'good Indian' with the Indian agents and the war chiefs at the forts . 
Some of this faithless set betrayed me , and told more than I ever did . 
I was seized and taken to the fort near Bismarck , North Dakota Fort Abraham Lincoln , by a brother Tom Custer of the Long Haired War Chief , and imprisoned there . 
I answered that I was not afraid to die . 
I shall shoot , but the voice of the gun will lie . 
That old soldier taught me that some of the white people have hearts , he added , quite seriously . 
I went back to Standing Rock in the night , and I had to hide for several days in the woods , where food was brought to me by my relatives . 
In the spring the hostile Sioux got together again upon the Tongue River . 
It was one of the greatest camps of the Sioux that I ever saw . 
We had decided to fight the white soldiers until no warrior should be left . 
At this point Rain in the Face took up his tobacco pouch and began again to fill his pipe . 
Of course the younger warriors were delighted with the prospect of a great fight ! Our scouts had discovered piles of oats for horses and other supplies near the Missouri River . 
They had been brought by the white man's fire boats . 
Presently they reported a great army about a day's travel to the south , with Shoshone and Crow scouts . 
There was excitement among the people , and a great council was held . 
I was asked the condition of those Indians who had gone upon the reservation , and I told them truly that they were nothing more than prisoners . 
It was decided to go out and meet Three Stars General Crook at a safe distance from our camp . 
We met him on the Little Rosebud . 
I believe that if we had waited and allowed him to make the attack , he would have fared no better than Custer . 
I think he was more wise than brave ! After we had left that neighborhood he might have pushed on and connected with the Long Haired Chief . 
That would have saved Custer and perhaps won the day . 
When we crossed from Tongue River to the Little Big Horn , on account of the scarcity of game , we did not anticipate any more trouble . 
Our runners had discovered that Crook had retraced his trail to Goose Creek , and we did not suppose that the white men would care to follow us farther into the rough country . 
Suddenly the Long Haired Chief appeared with his men ! It was a surprise . 
What part of the camp were you in when the soldiers attacked the lower end ? I asked . 
I had been invited to a feast at one of the young men's lodges a sort of club . 
There was a certain warrior who was making preparations to go against the Crows , and I had decided to go also , he said . 
Then we heard the reports of the soldiers' guns , which sounded differently from the guns fired by our people in battle . 
I ran to my teepee and seized my gun , a bow , and a quiver full of arrows . 
I already had my stone war club , for you know we usually carry those by way of ornament . 
Just as I was about to set out to meet Reno , a body of soldiers appeared nearly opposite us , at the edge of a long line of cliffs across the river . 
All of us who were mounted and ready immediately started down the stream toward the ford . 
There were Ogallalas , Minneconjous , Cheyennes , and some Unkpapas , and those around me seemed to be nearly all very young men . 
'Behold , there is among us a young woman ! I shouted . 
'Let no young man hide behind her garment ! I knew that would make those young men brave . 
The woman was Tashenamani , or Moving Robe , whose brother had just been killed in the fight with Three Stars . 
Holding her brother's war staff over her head , and leaning forward upon her charger , she looked as pretty as a bird . 
Always when there is a woman in the charge , it causes the warriors to vie with one another in displaying their valor , he added . 
The foremost warriors had almost surrounded the white men , and more were continually crossing the stream . 
The soldiers had dismounted , and were firing into the camp from the top of the cliff . 
My friend , was Sitting Bull in this fight ? I inquired . 
Later he joined the attack upon Custer , but was not among the foremost . 
The soldiers had mounted and started back , but when the onset came they dismounted again and separated into several divisions , facing different ways . 
They fired as fast as they could load their guns , while we used chiefly arrows and war clubs . 
There seemed to be two distinct movements among the Indians . 
One body moved continually in a circle , while the other rode directly into and through the troops . 
Presently some of the soldiers remounted and fled along the ridge toward Reno's position but they were followed by our warriors , like hundreds of blackbirds after a hawk . 
A larger body remained together at the upper end of a little ravine , and fought bravely until they were cut to pieces . 
I had always thought that white men were cowards , but I had a great respect for them after this day . 
It is generally said that a young man with nothing but a war staff in his hand broke through the column and knocked down the leader very early in the fight . 
We supposed him to be the leader , because he stood up in full view , swinging his big knife sword over his head , and talking loud . 
Some one unknown afterwards shot the chief , and he was probably killed also for if not , he would have told of the deed , and called others to witness it . 
So it is that no one knows who killed the Long Haired Chief General Custer . 
After the first rush was over , coups were counted as usual on the bodies of the slain . 
There was an Indian here called Appearing Elk , who died a short time ago . 
He was slightly wounded in the charge . 
I do not think he killed Custer , and if he had , the time to claim the honor was immediately after the fight . 
Many lies have been told of me . 
Some say that I killed the Chief , and others that I cut out the heart of his brother Tom Custer , because he had caused me to be imprisoned . 
Why , in that fight the excitement was so great that we scarcely recognized our nearest friends ! Everything was done like lightning . 
I have lived peaceably ever since we came upon the reservation . 
No one can say that Rain in the Face has broken the rules of the Great Father . 
I fought for my people and my country . 
When we were conquered I remained silent , as a warrior should . 
Rain in the Face was killed when he put down his weapons before the Great Father . 
His spirit was gone then only his poor body lived on , but now it is almost ready to lie down for the last time . 
Ho , hechetu ! It is well . 
TWO STRIKE It is a pity that so many interesting names of well known Indians have been mistranslated , so that their meaning becomes very vague if it is not wholly lost . 
In some cases an opposite meaning is conveyed . 
For instance there is the name , Young Man Afraid of His Horses . 
It does not mean that the owner of the name is afraid of his own horse far from it ! Tashunkekokipapi signifies The young men of the enemy fear his horses . 
Whenever that man attacks , the enemy knows there will be a determined charge . 
The name Tashunkewitko , or Crazy Horse , is a poetic simile . 
This leader was likened to an untrained or untouched horse , wild , ignorant of domestic uses , splendid in action , and unconscious of danger . 
The name of Two Strike is a deed name . 
In a battle with the Utes this man knocked two enemies from the back of a war horse . 
The true rendering of the name Nomkahpa would be , He knocked off two . 
I was well acquainted with Two Strike and spent many pleasant hours with him , both at Washington , D. C. , and in his home on the Rosebud reservation . 
What I have written is not all taken from his own mouth , because he was modest in talking about himself , but I had him vouch for the truth of the stories . 
He said that he was born near the Republican River about . 
His earliest recollection was of an attack by the Shoshones upon their camp on the Little Piney . 
The first white men he ever met were traders who visited his people when he was very young . 
The incident was still vividly with him , because , he said , They made my father crazy , drunk . 
This made a deep impression upon him , he told me , so that from that day he was always afraid of the white man's mysterious water . 
Two Strike was not a large man , but he was very supple and alert in motion , as agile as an antelope . 
His face was mobile and intelligent . 
Although he had the usual somber visage of an Indian , his expression brightened up wonderfully when he talked . 
In some ways wily and shrewd in intellect , he was not deceitful nor mean . 
He had a high sense of duty and honor . 
Patriotism was his ideal and goal of life . 
As a young man he was modest and even shy , although both his father and grandfather were well known chiefs . 
I could find few noteworthy incidents in his early life , save that he was an expert rider of wild horses . 
At one time I was pressing him to give me some interesting incident of his boyhood . 
He replied to the effect that there was plenty of excitement but not much in it . 
There was a delegation of Sioux chiefs visiting Washington , and we were spending an evening together in their hotel . 
how he lost the power of speech when he first tried to court a girl . 
Two Strike , although he was then close to eighty years of age , was visibly embarrassed by their chaff . 
Anyway , I stuck to the trail . 
I kept on till I got what I wanted , he muttered . 
And then came the story . 
A large herd of buffalo was reported by the game scout . 
The hunters gathered at daybreak prepared for the charge . 
The old chief had his tried charger equipped with a soft , pillow like Indian saddle and a lariat . 
His old sinew backed hickory bow was examined and strung , and a fine straight arrow with a steel head carefully selected for the test . 
He adjusted a keen butcher knife over his leather belt , which held a warm buffalo robe securely about his body . 
He wore neither shirt nor coat , although a piercing wind was blowing from the northwest . 
The youthful Two Strike had his favorite bow and his swift pony , which was perhaps dearer to him than his closest boy comrade . 
Now the hunters crouched upon their horses' necks like an army in line of battle , while behind them waited the boys and old men with pack ponies to carry the meat . 
Hukahey ! shouted the leader as a warning . 
and in an instant all the ponies leaped forward against the cutting wind , as if it were the start in a horse race . 
This was the object of the race . 
The chief had a fair start his horse was well trained and needed no urging nor guidance . 
Without the slightest pull on the lariat he dashed into the thickest of the herd . 
The youth's pony had been prancing and rearing impatiently he started a little behind , yet being swift passed many . 
His rider had one clear glimpse of his father ahead of him , then the snow arose in blinding clouds on the trail of the bison . 
He was unable to select his victim . 
At last the herd parted , and he cut out two fat cows , and was maneuvering for position when a rider appeared out of the snow cloud on their other side . 
In this instant he observed that the man who had joined him was his own father , who had met with the same difficulties as himself . 
The maddened buffalo , as sometimes happens in such cases , turned upon the pony and gored him to death . 
His bluff would not serve , so he flew back to pull out his solitary arrow from the body of the dead cow . 
Quickly wheeling again , he sent it into her side and she fell . 
The one arrow to kill had become one arrow to kill two buffalo ! At the council lodge that evening Two Strike was the hero . 
Many a life was risked in the effort to establish a reputation along these lines . 
Two Strike was the son and grandson of a chief , but he could not claim any credit for the deeds of his forbears . 
He had not only to guard their good name but achieve one for himself . 
This he had set out to do , and he did well . 
He was now of marriageable age with a war record , and admitted to the council , yet he did not seem to trouble himself at all about a wife . 
His was strictly a bachelor career . 
Now and then they would drop a sly hint , but with no perceptible effect . 
They did not and could not know of the inward struggle that racked his mind at this period of his life . 
At last his father appealed to him directly . 
There are several eligible young women in our band whose parents have intimated a wish to have you for their son in law . 
Two Strike made no reply , but he was greatly disturbed . 
He had no wish to have the old folks select his bride , for if the truth were told , his choice was already made . 
Here the young men were wont to take their stand , and , if fortunate , intercept the girl of their heart for a brief but fateful interview . 
Two Strike had determined to speak straight to the point , and as soon as he saw the pretty maid he came forward boldly and placed himself in her way . 
She glanced up at him shyly but not without encouragement . 
His teeth fairly chattered with fright , and he could not say a word . 
She looked again , noted his strange looks , and believed him suddenly taken ill . 
He appeared to be suffering . 
At last he feebly made signs for her to go on and leave him alone . 
The maiden was sympathetic , but as she did not know what else to do she obeyed his request . 
The poor youth was so ashamed of his cowardice that he afterward admitted his first thought was to take his own life . 
He believed he had disgraced himself forever in the eyes of the only girl he had ever loved . 
However , he determined to conquer his weakness and win her , which he did . 
The story came out many years after and was told with much enjoyment by the old men . 
Two Strike was better known by his own people than by the whites , for he was individually a terror in battle rather than a leader . 
He achieved his honorable name in a skirmish with the Utes in Colorado . 
The Sioux regarded these people as their bravest enemies , and the outcome of the fight was for some time uncertain . 
First the Sioux were forced to retreat and then their opponents , and at the latter point the horse of a certain Ute was shot under him . 
A friend came to his rescue and took him up behind him . 
Our hero overtook them in flight , raised his war club , and knocked both men off with one blow . 
He was a very old man when he died , only two or three years ago , on the Rosebud reservation . 
He had been tutored by his uncle , since his own father was killed in battle while he was still very young . 
He was a genial man , liking notoriety and excitement . 
He always seized an opportunity to leap into the center of the arena . 
In early life he was a clownish sort of boy among the boys an expert mimic and impersonator . 
This talent made him popular and in his way a leader . 
He was a natural actor , and early showed marked ability as a speaker . 
American Horse was about ten years old when he was attacked by three Crow warriors , while driving a herd of ponies to water . 
Here he displayed native cunning and initiative . 
It seemed he had scarcely a chance to escape , for the enemy was near . 
He yelled frantically at the ponies to start them toward home , while he dropped off into a thicket of willows and hid there . 
A part of the herd was caught in sight of the camp and there was a counter chase , but the Crows got away with the ponies . 
Of course his mother was frantic , believing her boy had been killed or captured but after the excitement was over , he appeared in camp unhurt . 
When questioned about his escape , he remarked I knew they would not take the time to hunt for small game when there was so much bigger close by . 
When he was quite a big boy , he joined in a buffalo hunt , and on the way back with the rest of the hunters his mule became unmanageable . 
But the boy turned actor , and made it appear that it was at his wish the mule had given this diverting performance . 
It was several years later that he went to sleep early one night and slept soundly , having been scouting for two nights previous . 
The laugh was on him , and he never recovered from his chagrin at this mistake . 
In fact , although he was undoubtedly fearless and tried hard to distinguish himself in warfare , he did not succeed . 
It is told of him that he once went with a war party of young men to the Wind River country against the Shoshones . 
While waiting thus , they ran short of food . 
It is still told of American Horse how he killed game and feasted between the ambush and the attack . 
At another time he was drying his sacred war bonnet and other gear over a small fire . 
These articles were held in great veneration by the Indians and handled accordingly . 
One could almost fill a book with his mishaps and exploits . 
I will give one of them in his own words as well as I can remember them . 
We were as promising a party of young warriors as our tribe ever sent against any of its ancestral enemies . 
It was midsummer , and after going two days' journey from home we began to send two scouts ahead daily while the main body kept a half day behind . 
The scouts set out every evening and traveled all night . 
One night the great war pipe was held out to me and to Young Man Afraid of His Horses . 
At daybreak , having met no one , we hid our horses and climbed to the top of the nearest butte to take an observation . 
It was a very hot day . 
We stuck some tall grass on our heads and proceeded to study the landscape spread before us for any sign of man . 
While intently watching some moving body at a distance , we could not yet tell whether of men or animals , I heard a faint noise behind me and slowly turned my head . 
'Separate ! separate ! he shouted , and as we did so , the bear chose me for his meat . 
I ran downhill as fast as I could , but he was gaining . 
'Dodge around a tree ! screamed Young Man Afraid . 
I took a deep breath and made a last spurt , desperately circling the first tree I came to . 
As the ground was steep just there , I turned a somersault one way and the bear the other . 
I don't think I ever had a narrower escape , he concluded . 
During the troublous times from to , American Horse advocated yielding to the government at any cost , being no doubt convinced of the uselessness of resistance . 
He was not a recognized leader until , when he took the name and place of his uncle . 
Since the older and better known chiefs , with the exception of Spotted Tail , were believed to be hostile at heart , the military made much use of him . 
Many of his young men enlisted as scouts by his advice , and even he himself entered the service . 
In the early part of the year , there was a rumor that certain bands were in danger of breaking away . 
Their leader was one Sioux Jim , so nicknamed by the soldiers . 
American Horse went to him as peacemaker , but was told he was a woman and no brave . 
He returned to his own camp and told his men that Sioux Jim meant mischief , and in order to prevent another calamity to the tribe , he must be chastised . 
He again approached the warlike Jim with several warriors at his back . 
The recalcitrant came out , gun in hand , but the wily chief was too quick for him . 
He shot and wounded the rebel , whereupon one of his men came forward and killed him . 
This quelled the people for the time being and up to the killing of Crazy Horse . 
In the crisis precipitated by this event , American Horse was again influential and energetic in the cause of the government . 
From this time on he became an active participant in the affairs of the Teton Sioux . 
He was noted for his eloquence , which was nearly always conciliatory , yet he could say very sharp things of the duplicity of the whites . 
He had much ease of manner and was a master of repartee . 
It was during the last struggle of his people , at the time of the Messiah craze in that he demonstrated as never before the real greatness of the man . 
While many of his friends were carried away by the new thought , he held aloof from it and cautioned his band to do the same . 
When it developed into an extensive upheaval among the nations he took his positive stand against it . 
Presently all Indians who did not dance the Ghost Dance were ordered to come into camp at Pine Ridge agency . 
American Horse was the first to bring in his people . 
I was there at the time and talked with him daily . 
When Little was arrested , it had been agreed among the disaffected to have him resist , which meant that he would be roughly handled . 
This was to be their excuse to attack the Indian police , which would probably lead to a general massacre or outbreak . 
I know that this desperate move was opposed from the beginning by American Horse , and it was believed that his life was threatened . 
On the day of the Big Issue , when thousands of Indians were gathered at the agency , this man Little , who had been in hiding , walked boldly among them . 
Of course the police would arrest him at sight , and he was led toward the guardhouse . 
He struggled with them , but was overpowered . 
What are you going to do ? he asked . 
He went on You are brave to day because you outnumber the white men , but what will you do to morrow ? There are railroads on all sides of you . 
The soldiers will pour in from every direction by thousands and surround you . 
You have little food or ammunition . 
It will be the end of your people . 
Stop , I say , stop now ! Jack Red Cloud , son of the old chief rushed up to him and thrust a revolver almost in his face . 
But his timely appearance and eloquence had saved the day . 
Others of the police force had time to reach the spot , and with a large crowd of friendly Indians had taken command of the situation . 
When I went into the office I found him alone but apparently quite calm . 
Where are the agent and the clerks ? I asked . 
They fled by the back door , he replied , smiling . 
I think they are in the cellar . 
These fools outside had almost caught us asleep , but I think it is over now . 
American Horse was one of the earliest advocates of education for the Indian , and his son Samuel and nephew Robert were among the first students at Carlisle . 
I think one or two of his daughters were the handsomest Indian girls of full blood that I ever saw . 
His record as a councilor of his people and his policy in the new situation that confronted them was manly and consistent . 
DULL KNIFE The life of Dull Knife , the Cheyenne , is a true hero tale . 
Simple , child like yet manful , and devoid of selfish aims , or love of gain , he is a pattern for heroes of any race . 
Dull Knife was a chief of the old school . 
Among all the Indians of the plains , nothing counts save proven worth . 
A man's caliber is measured by his courage , unselfishness and intelligence . 
Though orally preserved , their accounts are therefore accurate . 
But they have seldom been willing to give reliable information to strangers , especially when asked and paid for . 
Racial prejudice naturally enters into the account of a man's life by enemy writers , while one is likely to favor his own race . 
I am conscious that many readers may think that I have idealized the Indian . 
Therefore I will confess now that we have too many weak and unprincipled men among us . 
When I speak of the Indian hero , I do not forget the mongrel in spirit , false to the ideals of his people . 
Our trustfulness has been our weakness , and when the vices of civilization were added to our own , we fell heavily . 
It is said that Dull Knife as a boy was resourceful and self reliant . 
He was only nine years old when his family was separated from the rest of the tribe while on a buffalo hunt . 
Dull Knife was quite a youth when his tribe was caught one winter in a region devoid of game , and threatened with starvation . 
The situation was made worse by heavy storms , but he secured help and led a relief party a hundred and fifty miles , carrying bales of dried buffalo meat on pack horses . 
A story is told of an ancestor of the same name that illustrates well the spirit of the age . 
It was the custom in those days for the older men to walk ahead of the moving caravan and decide upon all halts and camping places . 
One day the councilors came to a grove of wild cherries covered with ripe fruit , and they stopped at once . 
Suddenly a grizzly charged from the thicket . 
The men yelped and hooted , but the bear was not to be bluffed . 
He knocked down the first warrior who dared to face him and dragged his victim into the bushes . 
The whole caravan was in the wildest excitement . 
Several of the swiftest footed warriors charged the bear , to bring him out into the open , while the women and dogs made all the noise they could . 
The bear accepted the challenge , and as he did so , the man whom they had supposed dead came running from the opposite end of the thicket . 
He would dare his enemy again ! The grizzly met him with a tremendous rush , and they went down together . 
Instantly the bear began to utter cries of distress , and at the same time the knife flashed , and he rolled over dead . 
The warrior was too quick for the animal he first bit his sensitive nose to distract his attention , and then used the knife to stab him to the heart . 
He fought many battles with knives thereafter and claimed that the spirit of the bear gave him success . 
It was from this incident that he received the name of Dull Knife , which was handed down to his descendant . 
As is well known , the Northern Cheyennes uncompromisingly supported the Sioux in their desperate defense of the Black Hills and Big Horn country . 
Why not ? It was their last buffalo region their subsistence . 
It was what our wheat fields are to a civilized nation . 
About the year , a propaganda was started for confining all the Indians upon reservations , where they would be practically interned or imprisoned , regardless of their possessions and rights . 
The men who were the strongest advocates of the scheme generally wanted the Indians' property the one main cause back of all Indian wars . 
Once disarmed and helpless , they were to be taken under military guard to the Indian Territory . 
A few resisted , and declared they would fight to the death rather than go . 
Among these were the Sioux , but nearly all the smaller tribes were deported against their wishes . 
Of course those Indians who came from a mountainous and cold country suffered severely . 
The moist heat and malaria decimated the exiles . 
Dull Knife was not successful in his plea , and the story of his flight is one of poignant interest . 
He was regarded by the authorities as a dangerous man , and with his depleted band was taken to the Indian Territory without his consent in . 
When he realized that his people were dying like sheep , he was deeply moved . 
Every man and woman declared that they would rather die in their own country than stay there longer , and they resolved to flee to their northern homes . 
Here again was displayed the genius of these people . 
From the Indian Territory to Dakota is no short dash for freedom . 
They knew what they were facing . 
Their line of flight lay through a settled country and they would be closely pursued by the army . 
No sooner had they started than the telegraph wires sang one song The panther of the Cheyennes is at large . 
Not a child or a woman in Kansas or Nebraska is safe . 
Yet they evaded all the pursuing and intercepting troops and reached their native soil . 
The strain was terrible , the hardship great , and Dull Knife , like Joseph , was remarkable for his self restraint in sparing those who came within his power on the way . 
But fate was against him , for there were those looking for blood money who betrayed him when he thought he was among friends . 
His people were tired out and famished when they were surrounded and taken to Fort Robinson . 
There the men were put in prison , and their wives guarded in camp . 
They were allowed to visit their men on certain days . 
Many of them had lost everything there were but a few who had even one child left . 
These despairing women appealed to their husbands to die fighting their liberty was gone , their homes broken up , and only slavery and gradual extinction in sight . 
At last Dull Knife listened . 
He said I have lived my life . 
As they had been allowed to carry moccasins and other things to the men , so they contrived to take in some guns and knives under this disguise . 
The plan was to kill the sentinels and run to the nearest natural trench , there to make their last stand . 
The women and children were to join them . 
This arrangement was carried out . 
Not every brave had a gun , but all had agreed to die together . 
They fought till their small store of ammunition was exhausted , then exposed their broad chests for a target , and the mothers even held up their little ones to be shot . 
Thus died the fighting Cheyennes and their dauntless leader . 
ROMAN NOSE This Cheyenne war chief was a contemporary of Dull Knife . 
While Dull Knife was noted in warfare among Indians , Roman Nose made his record against the whites , in defense of territory embracing the Republican and Arickaree rivers . 
He was killed on the latter river in , in the celebrated battle with General Forsythe . 
Save Chief Gall and Washakie in the prime of their manhood , this chief had no peer in bodily perfection and masterful personality . 
No Greek or Roman gymnast was ever a finer model of physical beauty and power . 
He thrilled his men to frenzied action when he came upon the field . 
It was said of him that he sacrificed more youths by his personal influence in battle than any other leader , being very reckless himself in grand stand charges . 
He was killed needlessly in this manner . 
Roman Nose always rode an uncommonly fine , spirited horse , and with his war bonnet and other paraphernalia gave a wonderful exhibition . 
The Indians used to say that the soldiers must gaze at him rather than aim at him , as they so seldom hit him even when running the gantlet before a firing line . 
He did a remarkable thing once when on a one arrow to kill buffalo hunt with his brother in law . 
His companion had selected his animal and drew so powerfully on his sinew bowstring that it broke . 
Roman Nose had killed his own cow and was whipping up close to the other when the misfortune occurred . 
Both horses were going at full speed and the arrow jerked up in the air . 
Roman Nose caught it and shot the cow for him . 
Another curious story told of him is to the effect that he had an intimate Sioux friend who was courting a Cheyenne girl , but without success . 
As the wooing of both Sioux and Cheyennes was pretty much all effected in the night time , Roman Nose told his friend to let him do the courting for him . 
He arranged with the young woman to elope the next night and to spend the honeymoon among his Sioux friends . 
He then told his friend what to do . 
The Sioux followed instructions and carried off the Cheyenne maid , and not until morning did she discover her mistake . 
It is said she never admitted it , and that the two lived happily together to a good old age , so perhaps there was no mistake after all . 
Perhaps no other chief attacked more emigrants going west on the Oregon Trail between and . 
The hat of one of the dead men was off , and although he had heavy hair and beard , the top of his head was bald from the forehead up . 
The first onset failed , and the command entrenched itself on a little island . 
The wily chief thought he could stampede them and urged on his braves with the declaration that the first to reach the island should be entitled to wear a trailing war bonnet . 
Nevertheless he was disappointed , and his men received such a warm reception that none succeeded in reaching it . 
In order to inspire them to desperate deeds he had led them in person , and with him that meant victory or death . 
According to the army accounts , it was a thrilling moment , and might well have proved disastrous to the Forsythe command , whose leader was wounded and helpless . 
The danger was acute until Roman Nose fell , and even then his lieutenants were bent upon crossing at any cost , but some of the older chiefs prevailed upon them to withdraw . 
Thus the brilliant war chief of the Cheyennes came to his death . 
If he had lived until , Sitting Bull would have had another bold ally . 
CHIEF JOSEPH The Nez Perce tribe of Indians , like other tribes too large to be united under one chief , was composed of several bands , each distinct in sovereignty . 
It was a loose confederacy . 
Joseph and his people occupied the Imnaha or Grande Ronde valley in Oregon , which was considered perhaps the finest land in that part of the country . 
When the last treaty was entered into by some of the bands of the Nez Perce , Joseph's band was at Lapwai , Idaho , and had nothing to do with the agreement . 
These peaceful non treaty Indians did not even know what land had been ceded until the agent read them the government order to leave . 
You and I would have done the same . 
General O. O. Howard , the Christian soldier , was sent to do the work . 
He had a long council with Joseph and his leading men , telling them they must obey the order or be driven out by force . 
We may be sure that he presented this hard alternative reluctantly . 
Joseph was a mere youth without experience in war or public affairs . 
General Howard told them in effect that they had no rights , no voice in the matter they had only to obey . 
He finally asked for thirty days' time in which to find and dispose of their stock , and this was granted . 
Depredations were committed , and finally the Indians , or some of them , retaliated , which was just what their enemies had been looking for . 
Joseph told me himself that during all of those thirty days a tremendous pressure was brought upon him by his own people to resist the government order . 
As a rule such men are unworthy , and this is so well known to the Indians that it makes them distrustful of the government's sincerity at the start . 
Moreover , while Indians unqualifiedly say what they mean , the whites have a hundred ways of saying what they do not mean . 
The center of the storm was this simple young man , who so far as I can learn had never been upon the warpath , and he stood firm for peace and obedience . 
However , the whites were unduly impatient to clear the coveted valley , and by their insolence they aggravated to the danger point an already strained situation . 
The murder of an Indian was the climax and this happened in the absence of the young chief . 
He returned to find the leaders determined to die fighting . 
The nature of the country was in their favor and at least they could give the army a chase , but how long they could hold out they did not know . 
Even Joseph's younger brother Ollicut was won over . 
This is not my judgment , but the unbiased opinion of men whose knowledge and experience fit them to render it . 
Bear in mind that these people were not scalp hunters like the Sioux , Cheyennes , and Utes , but peaceful hunters and fishermen . 
The first council of war was a strange business to Joseph . 
He had only this to say to his people I have tried to save you from suffering and sorrow . 
Resistance means all of that . 
You can see all we have at a glance . 
They have food and ammunition in abundance . 
We must suffer great hardship and loss . 
After this speech , he quietly began his plans for the defense . 
The main plan of campaign was to engineer a successful retreat into Montana and there form a junction with the hostile Sioux and Cheyennes under Sitting Bull . 
There were also decoy scouts set to trap Indian scouts of the army . 
I notice that General Howard charges his Crow scouts with being unfaithful . 
Their greatest difficulty was in meeting an unencumbered army , while carrying their women , children , and old men , with supplies and such household effects as were absolutely necessary . 
Perhaps no better ambush was ever planned than the one Chief Joseph set for the shrewd and experienced General Howard . 
He expected to be hotly pursued , but he calculated that the pursuing force would consist of not more than two hundred and fifty soldiers . 
He prepared false trails to mislead them into thinking that he was about to cross or had crossed the Salmon River , which he had no thought of doing at that time . 
They could even roll rocks upon them . 
In a very few minutes the troops had learned a lesson . 
The soldiers showed some fight , but a large body of frontiersmen who accompanied them were soon in disorder . 
The warriors chased them nearly ten miles , securing rifles and much ammunition , and killing and wounding many . 
The Nez Perces next crossed the river , made a detour and recrossed it at another point , then took their way eastward . 
All this was by way of delaying pursuit . 
As it was evident they had a long chase over trackless wilderness in prospect , he discarded his supply wagons and took pack mules instead . 
But by this time the Indians had a good start . 
Meanwhile General Howard had sent a dispatch to Colonel Gibbons , with orders to head Joseph off , which he undertook to do at the Montana end of the Lolo Trail . 
The wily commander had no knowledge of this move , but he was not to be surprised . 
He was too brainy for his pursuers , whom he constantly outwitted , and only gave battle when he was ready . 
There at the Big Hole Pass he met Colonel Gibbons' fresh troops and pressed them close . 
Here is what General Howard says of the affair . 
Bacon got into position soon enough but he did not have the heart to fight the Indians on account of their number . 
Meanwhile another incident had occurred . 
Right under the eyes of the chosen scouts and vigilant sentinels , Joseph's warriors fired upon the army camp at night and ran off their mules . 
He went straight on toward the park , where Lieutenant Bacon let him get by and pass through the narrow gateway without firing a shot . 
General Howard came upon the battle field soon afterward and saw that the Indians were off again , and from here he sent fresh messages to General Miles , asking for reinforcements . 
Joseph had now turned northeastward toward the Upper Missouri . 
He also believed that he had cleared all the forts . 
Therefore he went more slowly and tried to give his people some rest . 
Not one was ever left behind . 
He told me that he gave strict orders to his men not to kill any women or children . 
Another remarkable thing about this noted retreat is that Joseph's people stood behind him to a man , and even the women and little boys did each his part . 
The latter were used as scouts in the immediate vicinity of the camp . 
The Bittersweet valley , which they had now entered , was full of game , and the Indians hunted for food , while resting their worn out ponies . 
One morning they had a council to which Joseph rode over bareback , as they had camped in two divisions a little apart . 
His fifteen year old daughter went with him . 
They discussed sending runners to Sitting Bull to ascertain his exact whereabouts and whether it would be agreeable to him to join forces with the Nez Perces . 
In the midst of the council , a force of United States cavalry charged down the hill between the two camps . 
This once Joseph was surprised . 
He had seen no trace of the soldiers and had somewhat relaxed his vigilance . 
Meanwhile one set of the people fled while Joseph's own band entrenched themselves in a very favorable position from which they could not easily be dislodged . 
General Miles had received and acted on General Howard's message , and he now sent one of his officers with some Indian scouts into Joseph's camp to negotiate with the chief . 
Meantime Howard and Sturgis came up with the encampment , and Howard had with him two friendly Nez Perce scouts who were directed to talk to Joseph in his own language . 
He decided that there was nothing to do but surrender . 
He had believed that his escape was all but secure then at the last moment he was surprised and caught at a disadvantage . 
Some of his warriors still refused to surrender and slipped out of the camp at night and through the lines . 
His own story of the conditions he made was prepared by himself with my help in , when he came to Washington to present his grievances . 
The General said that every word of it was true . 
In the first place , his people were to be kept at Fort Keogh , Montana , over the winter and then returned to their reservation . 
Instead they were taken to Fort Leavenworth , Kansas , and placed between a lagoon and the Missouri River , where the sanitary conditions made havoc with them . 
Those who did not die were then taken to the Indian Territory , where the health situation was even worse . 
Joseph appealed to the government again and again , and at last by the help of Bishops Whipple and Hare he was moved to the Colville reservation in Washington . 
Here the land was very poor , unlike their own fertile valley . 
He did not hate the whites , for there was nothing small about him , and when he laid down his weapons he would not fight on with his mind . 
But he was profoundly disappointed in the claims of a Christian civilization . 
I call him great because he was simple and honest . 
Without education or special training he demonstrated his ability to lead and to fight when justice demanded . 
He outgeneraled the best and most experienced commanders in the army of the United States , although their troops were well provisioned , well armed , and above all unencumbered . 
He was great finally , because he never boasted of his remarkable feat . 
I am proud of him , because he was a true American . 
LITTLE WOLF If any people ever fought for liberty and justice , it was the Cheyennes . 
If any ever demonstrated their physical and moral courage beyond cavil , it was this race of purely American heroes , among whom Little Wolf was a leader . 
I knew the chief personally very well . 
As a young doctor , I was sent to the Pine Ridge agency in , as government physician to the Sioux and the Northern Cheyennes . 
No account could be clearer or simpler and then too , the author cannot be charged with a bias in favor of his own race . 
He had eaten nothing all day and was pretty hungry , but before he could lay hands on the meat a starving dog snatched it and bolted from the teepee . 
The mother ran after the dog and brought him back for punishment . 
She tied him to a post and was about to whip him when the boy interfered . 
'Don't hurt him , mother ! he cried 'he took the meat because he was hungrier than I am ! I was told of another kind act of his under trying circumstances . 
While still a youth , he was caught out with a party of buffalo hunters in a blinding blizzard . 
They were compelled to lie down side by side in the snowdrifts , and it was a day and a night before they could get out . 
The weather turned very cold , and when the men arose they were in danger of freezing . 
Little Wolf pressed his fine buffalo robe upon an old man who was shaking with a chill and himself took the other's thin blanket . 
As a full grown young man , he was attracted by a maiden of his tribe , and according to the custom then in vogue the pair disappeared . 
When they returned to the camp as man and wife , behold ! there was great excitement over the affair . 
But the girl herself had not given consent . 
The resentment of the disappointed suitor was great . 
It was reported in the village that he had openly declared that the young man who defied and insulted him must expect to be punished . 
As soon as Little Wolf heard of the threats , he told his father and friends that he had done only what it is every man's privilege to do . 
Tell the chief , said he , to come out with any weapon he pleases , and I will meet him within the circle of lodges . 
He shall either do this or eat his words . 
The woman is not his . 
Her people accepted his gifts against her wishes . 
The chief apologized , and thus avoided the inevitable duel , which would have been a fight to the death . 
The early life of Little Wolf offered many examples of the dashing bravery characteristic of the Cheyennes , and inspired the younger men to win laurels for themselves . 
He was still a young man , perhaps thirty five , when the most trying crisis in the history of his people came upon them . 
As I know and as Doctor Grinnell's book amply corroborates , he was the general who largely guided and defended them in that tragic flight from the Indian Territory to their northern home . 
I will not discuss the justice of their cause I prefer to quote Doctor Grinnell , lest it appear that I am in any way exaggerating the facts . 
They had come , he writes , from the high , dry country of Montana and North Dakota to the hot and humid Indian Territory . 
They had come from a country where buffalo and other game were still plentiful to a land where the game had been exterminated . 
Immediately on their arrival they were attacked by fever and ague , a disease wholly new to them . 
Food was scanty , and they began to starve . 
The agent testified before a committee of the Senate that he never received supplies to subsist the Indians for more than nine months in each year . 
These people were meat eaters , but the beef furnished them by the government inspectors was no more than skin and bone . 
The agent in describing their sufferings said 'They have lived and that is about all . 
The Indians endured this for about a year , and then their patience gave out . 
They left the agency to which they had been sent and started north . 
Though troops were camped close to them , they attempted no concealment of their purpose . 
Instead , they openly announced that they intended to return to their own country . 
Of the three hundred Indians , sixty or seventy were fighting men the rest old men , women , and children . 
The War Department set all its resources in operation against them , yet they kept on . 
If troops attacked them , they stopped and fought until they had driven off the soldiers , and then started north again . 
Sometimes they did not even stop , but marched along , fighting as they marched . 
It must not be overlooked that the appeal to justice had first been tried before taking this desperate step . 
Stay one more year , replied the agent , and then we will see what we can do for you . 
No , said Little Wolf . 
Before another year there will be none left to travel north . 
Soon after this it was found that three of the Indians had disappeared and the chief was ordered to surrender ten men as hostages for their return . 
Three men , said he , who are traveling over wild country can hide so that they cannot be found . 
You would never get back these three , and you would keep my men prisoners always . 
The agent then threatened if the ten men were not given up to withhold their rations and starve the entire tribe into submission . 
He forgot that he was addressing a Cheyenne . 
These people had not understood that they were prisoners when they agreed to friendly relations with the government and came upon the reservation . 
Little Wolf stood up and shook hands with all present before making his final deliberate address . 
Listen , my friends , I am a friend of the white people and have been so for a long time . 
I do not want to see blood spilt about this agency . 
I am going north to my own country . 
If you are going to send your soldiers after me , I wish you would let us get a little distance away . 
Then if you want to fight , I will fight you , and we can make the ground bloody at that place . 
The Cheyenne was not bluffing . 
He said just what he meant , and I presume the agent took the hint , for although the military were there they did not undertake to prevent the Indians' departure . 
Next morning the teepees were pulled down early and quickly . 
Toward evening of the second day , the scouts signaled the approach of troops . 
Little Wolf called his men together and advised them under no circumstances to fire until fired upon . 
An Arapahoe scout was sent to them with a message . 
If you surrender now , you will get your rations and be well treated . 
After what they had endured , it was impossible not to hear such a promise with contempt . 
Said Little Wolf We are going back to our own country . 
We do not want to fight . 
He was riding still nearer when the soldiers fired , and at a signal the Cheyennes made a charge . 
They succeeded in holding off the troops for two days , with only five men wounded and none killed , and when the military retreated the Indians continued northward carrying their wounded . 
This sort of thing was repeated again and again . 
Meanwhile Little Wolf held his men under perfect control . 
There were practically no depredations . 
They had now reached the buffalo country , and he always kept his main object in sight . 
Doctor Grinnell was told by one of his men years afterward Little Wolf did not seem like a human being . 
He seemed like a bear . 
It is true that a man of his type in a crisis becomes spiritually transformed and moves as one in a dream . 
At the Running Water the band divided , Dull Knife going toward Red Cloud agency . 
He was near Fort Robinson when he surrendered and met his sad fate . 
Little Wolf remained all winter in the Sand Hills , where there was plenty of game and no white men . 
There is a clear sky beyond the clouds of racial prejudice , and in that final Court of Honor a noble soul like that of Little Wolf has a place . 
HOLE IN THE DAY I wish to thank Reverend C. H. Beaulieu of Le Soeur , Minnesota , for much of the material used in this chapter . 
In the beginning of the nineteenth century , the Indian nations of the Northwest first experienced the pressure of civilization . 
At this period there were among them some brilliant leaders unknown to history , for the curious reason that they cordially received and welcomed the newcomers rather than opposed them . 
The only difficulties were those arising among the European nations themselves , and often involving the native tribes . 
Thus new environments brought new motives , and our temptations were increased manyfold with the new weapons , new goods , and above all the subtly destructive spirit water . 
Gradually it became known that the new race had a definite purpose , and that purpose was to chart and possess the whole country , regardless of the rights of its earlier inhabitants . 
Still the old chiefs cautioned their people to be patient , for , said they , the land is vast , both races can live on it , each in their own way . 
Let us therefore befriend them and trust to their friendship . 
While they reasoned thus , the temptations of graft and self aggrandizement overtook some of the leaders . 
was born in the opening days of this era . 
The word ki shig means either day or sky , and the name is perhaps more correctly translated Hole in the Sky . 
Hole in the Day the younger was a handsome man , tall and symmetrically formed , with much grace of manner and natural refinement . 
He was an astute student of diplomacy . 
The Ojibways allowed polygamy , and whether or not he approved the principle , he made political use of it by marrying the daughter of a chief in nearly every band . 
Through these alliances he held a controlling influence over the whole Ojibway nation . 
Reverend Claude H. Beaulieu says of him Hole in the Day was a man of distinguished appearance and native courtliness of manner . 
His voice was musical and magnetic , and with these qualities he had a subtle brain , a logical mind , and quite a remarkable gift of oratory . 
In speech he was not impassioned , but clear and convincing , and held fast the attention of his hearers . 
It is of interest to note that his everyday name among his tribesmen was The Boy . 
The Man applies to one who adds to these qualities wisdom and maturity of judgment . 
The Sioux tell many stories of both the elder and the younger Hole in the Day . 
Once when The Boy was still under ten years of age , he was fishing on Gull Lake in a leaky birch bark canoe . 
Presently there came such a burst of frantic warwhoops that his father was startled . 
He could not think of anything but an attack by the dreaded Sioux . 
The Boy was feeding and getting acquainted with them outside his mother's birch bark teepee , when suddenly he was heard to yell for help . 
The two little bears had treed The Boy and were waltzing around the tree . 
His mother scared them off , but again the father laughed at him for thinking that he could climb trees better than a bear . 
The elder Hole in the Day was a daring warrior and once attacked and scalped a Sioux who was carrying his pelts to the trading post , in full sight of his friends . 
Of course he was instantly pursued , and he leaped into a canoe which was lying near by and crossed to an island in the Mississippi River near Fort Snelling . 
It often happens that one who offers his life freely will after all die a natural death . 
The elder Hole in the Day so died when The Boy was still a youth . 
It was his to see the end of the original democracy on this continent . 
The clouds were fast thickening on the eastern horizon . 
Under such conditions the younger Hole in the Day undertook to guide his tribesmen . 
He maintained the territory won from the Sioux by his predecessors . 
He negotiated treaties with the ability of a born diplomat , with one exception , and that exception cost him his life . 
Like other able Indians who foresaw the inevitable downfall of their race , he favored a gradual change of customs leading to complete adoption of the white man's ways . 
In order to accustom the people to a new standard , he held that the chiefs must have authority and must be given compensation for their services . 
But there were difficulties to come with the Leech Lake and Red Lake bands , who held aloof from his policy , and the question of boundaries began to arise . 
Hole in the Day had by far the largest enrollment , therefore he got the lion's share of this fund . 
Furthermore he received another sum set apart for the use of the head chief , and these things did not look right to the tribe . 
In his home he had many white servants and henchmen and really lived like a lord . 
His moccasins were of the finest deerskin and beautifully worked . 
His long beautiful hair added much to his personal appearance . 
He was fond of entertaining and being entertained and was a favorite both among army officers and civilians . 
He was especially popular with the ladies , and this fact will appear later in the story . 
At about this time , the United States government took it upon itself to put an end to warfare between the Sioux and Ojibways . 
A peace meeting was arranged at Fort Snelling , with the United States as mediator . 
One of the Sioux remarked I thought this was to be a council of chiefs and braves , but I see many women among us . 
Thereupon the Ojibway arose and spoke in his courtliest manner . 
The Ojibway chiefs will feel highly honored , said he , if the ladies will consent to sit on our side . 
Being a man of means and influence , he was listened to with respect by the scattered white settlers in his vicinity . 
As I have said before , he was an unusually handsome man , and was not unresponsive to flattery and the attentions of women . 
At the time of this incident he was perhaps thirty five years old , but looked younger . 
He had called upon the President and was on his way back to his hotel , when he happened to pass the Treasury building just as the clerks were leaving for the day . 
He was immediately surrounded by an inquisitive throng . 
Hole in the Day replied If the beautiful lady is willing to risk calling on the chief at his hotel , her request will be granted . 
The lady went , and the result was so sudden and strong an attachment that both forgot all racial biases and differences of language and custom . 
She followed him as far as Minneapolis , and there the chief advised her to remain , for he feared the jealousy of some of his many wives . 
He was in personal danger from this source , and his life was twice attempted , but , though wounded , in each case he recovered . 
His popularity with Indian agents and officers lasted till the Republicans came into power in the sixties and there was a new deal . 
The chief no longer received the favors and tips to which he was accustomed in fact he was in want of luxuries , and worse still , his pride was hurt by neglect . 
In his indignation at this treatment , Hole in the Day began exposing the frauds on his people , and so at a late day was converted to their defense . 
Perhaps he had not fully understood the nature of graft until he was in a position to view it from the outside . 
He had wounded the ideals of his people beyond forgiveness , and he suffered the penalty yet his courage was not diminished by the mistakes of his past . 
In so doing they almost forced the Ojibways to fight under his leadership . 
The chief had no thought of alliance with the Sioux , and was wholly unaware of the proposed action of the military on pretense of such a conspiracy on his part . 
He was on his way to the agency in his own carriage when a runner warned him of his danger . 
He thereupon jumped down and instructed the driver to proceed . 
When the military reached the river bank he was still in sight , and the lieutenant called upon him to surrender . 
When he refused , the soldiers were ordered to fire upon him , but he replied with his own rifle , and with a whoop disappeared among the pine groves . 
It was remarkable how the whole tribe now rallied to the call of Hole in the Day . 
He allowed no depredations to the young men under his leadership , but camped openly near the agency and awaited an explanation . 
Presently Judge Cooper of St . 
Paul , a personal friend of the chief , appeared , and later on the Assistant Secretary of the Interior , accompanied by Mr. Nicolay , private secretary of President Lincoln . 
Apparently that great humanitarian President saw the whole injustice of the proceeding against a loyal nation , and the difficulty was at an end . 
Through the treaties of , , and was accomplished the final destiny of the Mississippi River Ojibways . 
He declared that he would never go on the new reservation , and he kept his word . 
He remained on one of his land grants near Crow Wing . 
As the other chiefs assumed more power , the old feeling of suspicion and hatred became stronger , especially among the Pillager and Red Lake bands . 
One day he was waylaid and shot by a party of these disaffected Indians . 
He uttered a whoop and fell dead from his buggy . 
Thus died one of the most brilliant chiefs of the Northwest , who never defended his birthright by force of arms , although almost compelled to do so . 
He succeeded in diplomacy so long as he was the recognized head of his people . 
Although he left many children , none seem to have made their mark , yet it may be that in one of his descendants that undaunted spirit will rise again . 
