OLD INDIAN LEGENDS OLD INDIAN LEGENDS RETOLD BY ZITKALA SA ITKALA SA . 
He wears brown deerskin leggins with long soft fringes on either side , and tiny beaded moccasins on his feet . 
His long black hair is parted in the middle and wrapped with red , red bands . 
Each round braid hangs over a small brown ear and falls forward over his shoulders . 
He even paints his funny face with red and yellow , and draws big black rings around his eyes . 
He wears a deerskin jacket , with bright colored beads sewed tightly on it . 
Iktomi dresses like a real Dakota brave . 
In truth , his paint and deerskins are the best part of him if ever dress is part of man or fairy . 
Iktomi is a wily fellow . 
His hands are always kept in mischief . 
He prefers to spread a snare rather than to earn the smallest thing with honest hunting . 
Why ! he laughs outright with wide open mouth when some simple folk are caught in a trap , sure and fast . 
He never dreams another lives so bright as he . 
Often his own conceit leads him hard against the common sense of simpler people . 
Poor Iktomi cannot help being a little imp . 
And so long as he is a naughty fairy , he cannot find a single friend . 
No one helps him when he is in trouble . 
No one really loves him . 
Those who come to admire his handsome beaded jacket and long fringed leggins soon go away sick and tired of his vain , vain words and heartless laughter . 
Thus Iktomi lives alone in a cone shaped wigwam upon the plain . 
One day he sat hungry within his teepee . 
Suddenly he rushed out , dragging after him his blanket . 
Quickly spreading it on the ground , he tore up dry tall grass with both his hands and tossed it fast into the blanket . 
Tying all the four corners together in a knot , he threw the light bundle of grass over his shoulder . 
Snatching up a slender willow stick with his free left hand , he started off with a hop and a leap . 
From side to side bounced the bundle on his back , as he ran light footed over the uneven ground . 
Soon he came to the edge of the great level land . 
On the hilltop he paused for breath . 
With wicked smacks of his dry parched lips , as if tasting some tender meat , he looked straight into space toward the marshy river bottom . 
With a thin palm shading his eyes from the western sun , he peered far away into the lowlands , munching his own cheeks all the while . 
Ah ha ! grunted he , satisfied with what he saw . 
A group of wild ducks were dancing and feasting in the marshes . 
With wings outspread , tip to tip , they moved up and down in a large circle . 
Within the ring , around a small drum , sat the chosen singers , nodding their heads and blinking their eyes . 
They sang in unison a merry dance song , and beat a lively tattoo on the drum . 
Following a winding footpath near by , came a bent figure of a Dakota brave . 
He bore on his back a very large bundle . 
With a willow cane he propped himself up as he staggered along beneath his burden . 
Ho ! who is there ? called out a curious old duck , still bobbing up and down in the circular dance . 
Hereupon the drummers stretched their necks till they strangled their song for a look at the stranger passing by . 
Ho , Iktomi ! Old fellow , pray tell us what you carry in your blanket . 
Do not hurry off ! Stop ! halt ! urged one of the singers . 
Stop ! stay ! Show us what is in your blanket ! cried out other voices . 
My friends , I must not spoil your dance . 
Oh , you would not care to see if you only knew what is in my blanket . 
Sing on ! dance on ! I must not show you what I carry on my back , answered Iktomi , nudging his own sides with his elbows . 
This reply broke up the ring entirely . 
Now all the ducks crowded about Iktomi . 
We must see what you carry ! We must know what is in your blanket ! they shouted in both his ears . 
Some even brushed their wings against the mysterious bundle . 
Nudging himself again , wily Iktomi said , My friends , 't is only a pack of songs I carry in my blanket . 
Oh , then let us hear your songs ! cried the curious ducks . 
At length Iktomi consented to sing his songs . 
With delight all the ducks flapped their wings and cried together , Hoye ! hoye ! Iktomi , with great care , laid down his bundle on the ground . 
I will build first a round straw house , for I never sing my songs in the open air , said he . 
Quickly he bent green willow sticks , planting both ends of each pole into the earth . 
These he covered thick with reeds and grasses . 
Soon the straw hut was ready . 
One by one the fat ducks waddled in through a small opening , which was the only entrance way . 
Beside the door Iktomi stood smiling , as the ducks , eyeing his bundle of songs , strutted into the hut . 
In a strange low voice Iktomi began his queer old tunes . 
All the ducks sat round eyed in a circle about the mysterious singer . 
It was dim in that straw hut , for Iktomi had not forgot to cover up the small entrance way . 
All of a sudden his song burst into full voice . 
As the startled ducks sat uneasily on the ground , Iktomi changed his tune into a minor strain . 
These were the words he sang Istokmus wacipo , tuwayatunwanpi kinhan ista nisasapi kta , which is , With eyes closed you must dance . 
He who dares to open his eyes , forever red eyes shall have . 
Up rose the circle of seated ducks and holding their wings close against their sides began to dance to the rhythm of Iktomi's song and drum . 
With eyes closed they did dance ! Iktomi ceased to beat his drum . 
He began to sing louder and faster . 
He seemed to be moving about in the center of the ring . 
No duck dared blink a wink . 
Each one shut his eyes very tight and danced even harder . 
Up and down ! Shifting to the right of them they hopped round and round in that blind dance . 
It was a difficult dance for the curious folk . 
At length one of the dancers could close his eyes no longer ! It was a Skiska who peeped the least tiny blink at Iktomi within the center of the circle . 
Oh ! oh ! squawked he in awful terror ! Run ! fly ! Iktomi is twisting your heads and breaking your necks ! Run out and fly ! fly ! he cried . 
Hereupon the ducks opened their eyes . 
There beside Iktomi's bundle of songs lay half of their crowd flat on their backs . 
Out they flew through the opening Skiska had made as he rushed forth with his alarm . 
Ah ha ! laughed Iktomi , untying the four corners of his blanket , I shall sit no more hungry within my dwelling . 
Homeward he trudged along with nice fat ducks in his blanket . 
He left the little straw hut for the rains and winds to pull down . 
Having reached his own teepee on the high level lands , Iktomi kindled a large fire out of doors . 
He planted sharp pointed sticks around the leaping flames . 
On each stake he fastened a duck to roast . 
A few he buried under the ashes to bake . 
Disappearing within his teepee , he came out again with some huge seashells . 
Placing one under each roasting duck , he muttered , The sweet fat oozing out will taste well with the hard cooked breasts . 
Heaping more willows upon the fire , Iktomi sat down on the ground with crossed shins . 
A long chin between his knees pointed toward the red flames , while his eyes were on the browning ducks . 
Just above his ankles he clasped and unclasped his long bony fingers . 
Now and then he sniffed impatiently the savory odor . 
The brisk wind which stirred the fire also played with a squeaky old tree beside Iktomi's wigwam . 
The dripping of amber oil into pearly dishes , drop by drop , pleased his hungry eyes . 
Still the old tree man called for help . 
He ! What sound is it that makes my ear ache ! exclaimed Iktomi , holding a hand on his ear . 
He rose and looked around . 
The squeaking came from the tree . 
Then he began climbing the tree to find the disagreeable sound . 
He placed his foot right on a cracked limb without seeing it . 
Just then a whiff of wind came rushing by and pressed together the broken edges . 
There in a strong wooden hand Iktomi's foot was caught . 
Oh ! my foot is crushed ! he howled like a coward . 
In vain he pulled and puffed to free himself . 
While sitting a prisoner on the tree he spied , through his tears , a pack of gray wolves roaming over the level lands . 
Don't you come to eat up my meal . 
From the tree Iktomi watched the hungry wolves eat up his nicely browned fat ducks . 
His foot pained him more and more . 
He heard them crack the small round bones with their strong long teeth and eat out the oily marrow . 
Now severe pains shot up from his foot through his whole body . 
Hin hin hin ! sobbed Iktomi . 
Real tears washed brown streaks across his red painted cheeks . 
Hin hin hin ! moaned Iktomi , when the wolves had scampered off . 
All too late , the sturdy breeze returned , and , passing by , pulled apart the broken edges of the tree . 
But alas ! he had no duck feast . 
IKTOMI'S BLANKET IKTOMI'S BLANKET ALONE within his teepee sat Iktomi . 
The sun was but a handsbreadth from the western edge of land . 
Those , bad , bad gray wolves ! They ate up all my nice fat ducks ! muttered he , rocking his body to and fro . 
He was cuddling the evil memory he bore those hungry wolves . 
At last he ceased to sway his body backward and forward , but sat still and stiff as a stone image . 
Oh ! I'll go to Inyan , the great grandfather , and pray for food ! he exclaimed . 
At once he hurried forth from his teepee and , with his blanket over one shoulder , drew nigh to a huge rock on a hillside . 
With half crouching , half running strides , he fell upon Inyan with outspread hands . 
Great grandfather , give me meat to eat ! he cried . 
All the while he stroked and caressed the face of the great stone god . 
The all powerful Great Spirit , who makes the trees and grass , can hear the voice of those who pray in many varied ways . 
The hearing of Inyan , the large hard stone , was the one most sought after . 
He was the great grandfather , for he had sat upon the hillside many , many seasons . 
He had seen the prairie put on a snow white blanket and then change it for a bright green robe more than a thousand times . 
Still unaffected by the myriad moons he rested on the everlasting hill , listening to the prayers of Indian warriors . 
Before the finding of the magic arrow he had sat there . 
Now , as Iktomi prayed and wept before the great grandfather , the sky in the west was red like a glowing face . 
The sunset poured a soft mellow light upon the huge gray stone and the solitary figure beside it . 
It was the smile of the Great Spirit upon the grandfather and the wayward child . 
Now , grandfather , accept my offering 'tis all I have , said Iktomi as he spread his half worn blanket upon Inyan's cold shoulders . 
Then Iktomi , happy with the smile of the sunset sky , followed a footpath leading toward a thicketed ravine . 
He had not gone many paces into the shrubbery when before him lay a freshly wounded deer ! This is the answer from the red western sky ! cried Iktomi with hands uplifted . 
Slipping a long thin blade from out his belt , he cut large chunks of choice meat . 
Sharpening some willow sticks , he planted them around a wood pile he had ready to kindle . 
On these stakes he meant to roast the venison . 
While he was rubbing briskly two long sticks to start a fire , the sun in the west fell out of the sky below the edge of land . 
Iktomi felt the cold night air upon his bare neck and shoulders . 
Ough ! he shivered as he wiped his knife on the grass . 
Tucking it in a beaded case hanging from his belt , Iktomi stood erect , looking about . 
Ough ! Ah ! I am cold . 
I wish I had my blanket ! whispered he , hovering over the pile of dry sticks and the sharp stakes round about it . 
Suddenly he paused and dropped his hands at his sides . 
The old great grandfather does not feel the cold as I do . 
He does not need my old blanket as I do . 
I wish I had not given it to him . 
Oh ! I think I'll run up there and take it back ! said he , pointing his long chin toward the large gray stone . 
Iktomi , in the warm sunshine , had no need of his blanket , and it had been very easy to part with a thing which he could not miss . 
But the chilly night wind quite froze his ardent thank offering . 
Thus running up the hillside , his teeth chattering all the way , he drew near to Inyan , the sacred symbol . 
Seizing one corner of the half worn blanket , Iktomi pulled it off with a jerk . 
Give my blanket back , old grandfather ! You do not need it . 
I do ! This was very wrong , yet Iktomi did it , for his wit was not wisdom . 
Drawing the blanket tight over his shoulders , he descended the hill with hurrying feet . 
He was soon upon the edge of the ravine . 
A young moon , like a bright bent bow , climbed up from the southwest horizon a little way into the sky . 
In this pale light Iktomi stood motionless as a ghost amid the thicket . 
His woodpile was not yet kindled . 
His pointed stakes were still bare as he had left them . 
But where was the deer the venison he had felt warm in his hands a moment ago ? It was gone . 
Only the dry rib bones lay on the ground like giant fingers from an open grave . 
At length , stooping over the white dried bones , he took hold of one and shook it . 
The bones , loose in their sockets , rattled together at his touch . 
Iktomi let go his hold . 
And though he wore a blanket his teeth chattered more than ever . 
The Great Spirit does not heed them ever . 
IKTOMI AND THE MUSKRAT IKTOMI AND THE MUSKRAT BESIDE a white lake , beneath a large grown willow tree , sat Iktomi on the bare ground . 
The heap of smouldering ashes told of a recent open fire . 
With ankles crossed together around a pot of soup , Iktomi bent over some delicious boiled fish . 
Fast he dipped his black horn spoon into the soup , for he was ravenous . 
Iktomi had no regular meal times . 
Often when he was hungry he went without food . 
Well hid between the lake and the wild rice , he looked nowhere save into the pot of fish . 
Not knowing when the next meal would be , he meant to eat enough now to last some time . 
How , how , my friend ! said a voice out of the wild rice . 
He almost choked with his soup . 
He peered through the long reeds from where he sat with his long horn spoon in mid air . 
How , my friend ! said the voice again , this time close at his side . 
Iktomi turned and there stood a dripping muskrat who had just come out of the lake . 
Oh , it is my friend who startled me . 
I wondered if among the wild rice some spirit voice was talking . 
How , how , my friend ! said Iktomi . 
He hummed an old dance song and beat gently on the edge of the pot with his buffalo horn spoon . 
The muskrat began to feel awkward before such lack of hospitality and wished himself under water . 
If I win , I shall not need to share it with you . 
If you win , you shall have half of it . 
Springing to his feet , Iktomi began at once to tighten the belt about his waist . 
My friend Ikto , I cannot run a race with you ! I am not a swift runner , and you are nimble as a deer . 
We shall not run any race together , answered the hungry muskrat . 
For a moment Iktomi stood with a hand on his long protruding chin . 
His eyes were fixed upon something in the air . 
The muskrat looked out of the corners of his eyes without moving his head . 
He watched the wily Iktomi concocting a plot . 
Yes , yes , said Iktomi , suddenly turning his gaze upon the unwelcome visitor I shall carry a large stone on my back . 
That will slacken my usual speed and the race will be a fair one . 
Saying this he laid a firm hand upon the muskrat's shoulder and started off along the edge of the lake . 
When they reached the opposite side Iktomi pried about in search of a heavy stone . 
He found one half buried in the shallow water . 
Pulling it out upon dry land , he wrapped it in his blanket . 
Now , my friend , you shall run on the left side of the lake , I on the other . 
The race is for the boiled fish in yonder kettle ! said Iktomi . 
The muskrat helped to lift the heavy stone upon Iktomi's back . 
Each took a narrow path through the tall reeds fringing the shore . 
Iktomi found his load a heavy one . 
Perspiration hung like beads on his brow . 
His chest heaved hard and fast . 
He looked across the lake to see how far the muskrat had gone , but nowhere did he see any sign of him . 
Well , he is running low under the wild rice ! said he . 
Yet as he scanned the tall grasses on the lake shore , he saw not one stir as if to make way for the runner . 
Ah , has he gone so fast ahead that the disturbed grasses in his trail have quieted again ? exclaimed Iktomi . 
With that thought he quickly dropped the heavy stone . 
No more of this ! said he , patting his chest with both hands . 
Off with a springing bound , he ran swiftly toward the goal . 
Tufts of reeds and grass fell flat under his feet . 
Hardly had they raised their heads when Iktomi was many paces gone . 
Soon he reached the heap of cold ashes . 
Iktomi halted stiff as if he had struck an invisible cliff . 
His black eyes showed a ring of white about them as he stared at the empty ground . 
He has laughed at me for carrying a weight on my back while he shot hither like an arrow ! Crying thus to himself , Iktomi stepped to the water's brink . 
He stooped forward with a hand on each bent knee and peeped far into the deep water . 
There ! he exclaimed , I see you , my friend , sitting with your ankles wound around my little pot of fish ! My friend , I am hungry . 
Give me a bone ! Ha ! ha ! ha ! laughed the water man , the muskrat . 
The sound did not rise up out of the lake , for it came down from overhead . 
With his hands still on his knees , Iktomi turned his face upward into the great willow tree . 
Iktomi almost choked to death before he could get it out . 
In the tree the muskrat sat laughing loud . 
Next time , say to a visiting friend , 'Be seated beside me , my friend . 
Let me share with you my food . 
IKTOMI AND THE COYOTE IKTOMI AND THE COYOTE AFAR off upon a large level land , a summer sun was shining bright . 
Here and there over the rolling green were tall bunches of coarse gray weeds . 
Iktomi in his fringed buckskins walked alone across the prairie with a black bare head glossy in the sunlight . 
He walked through the grass without following any well worn footpath . 
From one large bunch of coarse weeds to another he wound his way about the great plain . 
He lifted his foot lightly and placed it gently forward like a wildcat prowling noiselessly through the thick grass . 
He stopped a few steps away from a very large bunch of wild sage . 
From shoulder to shoulder he tilted his head . 
Still farther he bent from side to side , first low over one hip and then over the other . 
Far forward he stooped , stretching his long thin neck like a duck , to see what lay under a fur coat beyond the bunch of coarse grass . 
Carefully he raised one foot and cautiously reached out with his toes . 
Gently , gently he lifted the foot behind and placed it before the other . 
Thus he came nearer and nearer to the round fur ball lying motionless under the sage grass . 
Now Iktomi stood beside it , looking at the closed eyelids that did not quiver the least bit . 
Pressing his lips into straight lines and nodding his head slowly , he bent over the wolf . 
He held his ear close to the coyote's nose , but not a breath of air stirred from it . 
Dead ! said he at last . 
Dead , but not long since he ran over these plains ! See ! there in his paw is caught a fresh feather . 
Ah ha ! he laughed , as he seized the coyote by its two fore paws and its two hind feet and swung him over head across his shoulders . 
The wolf was large and the teepee was far across the prairie . 
Iktomi trudged along with his burden , smacking his hungry lips together . 
He blinked his eyes hard to keep out the salty perspiration streaming down his face . 
All the while the coyote on his back lay gazing into the sky with wide open eyes . 
His long white teeth fairly gleamed as he smiled and smiled . 
To ride on one's own feet is tiresome , but to be carried like a warrior from a brave fight is great fun ! said the coyote in his heart . 
He had never been borne on any one's back before and the new experience delighted him . 
He lay there lazily on Iktomi's shoulders , now and then blinking blue winks . 
Did you never see a birdie blink a blue wink ? This is how it first became a saying among the plains people . 
Sometimes when children grow drowsy they blink blue winks , while others who are too proud to look with friendly eyes upon people blink in this cold bird manner . 
The coyote was affected by both sleepiness and pride . 
His winks were almost as blue as the sky . 
In the midst of his new pleasure the swaying motion ceased . 
Iktomi had reached his dwelling place . 
The coyote felt drowsy no longer , for in the next instant he was slipping out of Iktomi's hands . 
He was falling , falling through space , and then he struck the ground with such a bump he did not wish to breathe for a while . 
He wondered what Iktomi would do , thus he lay still where he fell . 
Humming a dance song , one from his bundle of mystery songs , Iktomi hopped and darted about at an imaginary dance and feast . 
He gathered dry willow sticks and broke them in two against his knee . 
He built a large fire out of doors . 
The flames leaped up high in red and yellow streaks . 
Now Iktomi returned to the coyote who had been looking on through his eyelashes . 
Taking him again by his paws and hind feet , he swung him to and fro . 
Then as the wolf swung toward the red flames , Iktomi let him go . 
Once again the coyote fell through space . 
Hot air smote his nostrils . 
He saw red dancing fire , and now he struck a bed of cracking embers . 
With a quick turn he leaped out of the flames . 
From his heels were scattered a shower of red coals upon Iktomi's bare arms and shoulders . 
Dumbfounded , Iktomi thought he saw a spirit walk out of his fire . 
He thrust a palm to his face , hard over his mouth ! He could scarce keep from shrieking . 
Rolling over and over on the grass and rubbing the sides of his head against the ground , the coyote soon put out the fire on his fur . 
Iktomi's eyes were almost ready to jump out of his head as he stood cooling a burn on his brown arm with his breath . 
Sitting on his haunches , on the opposite side of the fire from where Iktomi stood , the coyote began to laugh at him . 
Another day , my friend , do not take too much for granted . 
Make sure the enemy is stone dead before you make a fire ! Then off he ran so swiftly that his long bushy tail hung out in a straight line with his back . 
IKTOMI AND THE FAWN IKTOMI AND THE FAWN IN one of his wanderings through the wooded lands , Iktomi saw a rare bird sitting high in a tree top . 
Its long fan like tail feathers had caught all the beautiful colors of the rainbow . 
Handsome in the glistening summer sun sat the bird of rainbow plumage . 
Iktomi hurried hither with his eyes fast on the bird . 
He stood beneath the tree looking long and wistfully at the peacock's bright feathers . 
I beg of you make me into a bird with green and purple feathers like yours ! implored Iktomi , tired now of playing the brave in beaded buckskins . 
The peacock then spoke to Iktomi I have a magic power . 
My touch will change you in a moment into the most beautiful peacock if you can keep one condition . 
Yes ! yes ! shouted Iktomi , jumping up and down , patting his lips with his palm , which caused his voice to vibrate in a peculiar fashion . 
Yes ! yes ! I could keep ten conditions if only you would change me into a bird with long , bright tail feathers . 
Right beside Iktomi he alighted . 
Then I pronounce you a handsome feathered bird . 
No longer are you Iktomi the mischief maker . 
Saying this the peacock touched Iktomi with the tips of his wings . 
Iktomi vanished at the touch . 
There stood beneath the tree two handsome peacocks . 
While one of the pair strutted about with a head turned aside as if dazzled by his own bright tinted tail feathers , the other bird soared slowly upward . 
He sat quiet and unconscious of his gay plumage . 
He seemed content to perch there on a large limb in the warm sunshine . 
After a little while the vain peacock , dizzy with his bright colors , spread out his wings and lit on the same branch with the elder bird . 
Oh ! he exclaimed , how hard to fly ! Brightly tinted feathers are handsome , but I wish they were light enough to fly ! Just there the elder bird interrupted him . 
That is the one condition . 
Never try to fly like other birds . 
Upon the day you try to fly you shall be changed into your former self . 
Oh , what a shame that bright feathers cannot fly into the sky ! cried the peacock . 
He longed to soar through space . 
He yearned to fly above the trees high upward to the sun . 
I want to try my wings . 
No , no ! clucked the elder bird . 
The flock of chattering birds flew by with whirring wings . 
Oop ! oop ! called some to their mates . 
Possessed by an irrepressible impulse the Iktomi peacock called out , He ! I want to come ! Wait for me ! and with that he gave a lunge into the air . 
The flock of flying feathers wheeled about and lowered over the tree whence came the peacock's cry . 
Only one rare bird sat on the tree , and beneath , on the ground , stood a brave in brown buckskins . 
I am my old self again ! groaned Iktomi in a sad voice . 
Make me over , pretty bird . 
Try me this once again ! he pleaded in vain . 
Old Iktomi wants to fly ! Ah ! We cannot wait for him ! sang the birds as they flew away . 
Muttering unhappy vows to himself , Iktomi had not gone far when he chanced upon a bunch of long slender arrows . 
One by one they rose in the air and shot a straight line over the prairie . 
Others shot up into the blue sky and were soon lost to sight . 
I want to strike yonder summer sun in its center . 
Make me into an arrow ! Can you keep a condition ? One condition , though hard it be ? the arrow turned to ask . 
Yes ! Yes ! shouted Iktomi , delighted . 
Hereupon the slender arrow tapped him gently with his sharp flint beak . 
There was no Iktomi , but two arrows stood ready to fly . 
Now , young arrow , this is the one condition . 
Your flight must always be in a straight line . 
Never turn a curve nor jump about like a young fawn , said the arrow magician . 
He spoke slowly and sternly . 
At once he set about to teach the new arrow how to shoot in a long straight line . 
This is the way to pierce the Blue overhead , said he and off he spun high into the sky . 
While he was gone a herd of deer came trotting by . 
Behind them played the young fawns together . 
They frolicked about like kittens . 
They bounced on all fours like balls . 
Then they pitched forward , kicking their heels in the air . 
The Iktomi arrow watched them so happy on the ground . 
Looking quickly up into the sky , he said in his heart , The magician is out of sight . 
I'll just romp and frolic with these fawns until he returns . 
Fawns ! Friends , do not fear me . 
I want to jump and leap with you . 
I long to be happy as you are , said he . 
The young fawns stopped with stiff legs and stared at the speaking arrow with large brown wondering eyes . 
See ! I can jump as well as you ! went on Iktomi . 
He gave one tiny leap like a fawn . 
All of a sudden the fawns snorted with extended nostrils at what they beheld . 
There among them stood Iktomi in brown buckskins , and the strange talking arrow was gone . 
Oh ! I am myself . 
My old self ! cried Iktomi , pinching himself and plucking imaginary pieces out of his jacket . 
Hin hin hin ! I wanted to fly ! The real arrow now returned to the earth . 
He alighted very near Iktomi . 
From the high sky he had seen the fawns playing on the green . 
He had seen Iktomi make his one leap , and the charm was broken . 
Iktomi became his former self . 
Arrow , my friend , change me once more ! begged Iktomi . 
No , no more , replied the arrow . 
Then away he shot through the air in the direction his comrades had flown . 
By this time the fawns gathered close around Iktomi . 
They poked their noses at him trying to know who he was . 
Iktomi's tears were like a spring shower . 
A new desire dried them quickly away . 
Stepping boldly to the largest fawn , he looked closely at the little brown spots all over the furry face . 
When I was very , very small , my mother marked them on my face with a red hot fire . 
She dug a large hole in the ground and made a soft bed of grass and twigs in it . 
Then she placed me gently there . 
She covered me over with dry sweet grass and piled dry cedars on top . 
From a neighbor's fire she brought hither a red , red ember . 
This she tucked carefully in at my head . 
This is how the brown spots were made on my face . 
I can dig the ground and fill it with dry grass and sticks . 
If you will jump into the pit , I'll cover you with sweet smelling grass and cedar wood , answered the fawn . 
I'll pile up grass and willows once oftener than my mother did . 
Now let us dig the hole , pull the grass , and gather sticks , cried Iktomi in glee . 
Thus with his own hands he aids in making his grave . 
After the hole was dug and cushioned with grass , Iktomi , muttering something about brown spots , leaped down into it . 
Lengthwise , flat on his back , he lay . 
Off scampered the fawns after their mothers and when a great distance away they looked backward . 
They saw a blue smoke rising , writhing upward till it vanished in the blue ether . 
Is that Iktomi's spirit ? asked one fawn of another . 
No ! I think he would jump out before he could burn into smoke and cinders , answered his comrade . 
THE BADGER AND THE BEAR THE BADGER AND THE BEAR ON the edge of a forest there lived a large family of badgers . 
In the ground their dwelling was made . 
Its walls and roof were covered with rocks and straw . 
Old father badger was a great hunter . 
He knew well how to track the deer and buffalo . 
Every day he came home carrying on his back some wild game . 
This kept mother badger very busy , and the baby badgers very chubby . 
While the well fed children played about , digging little make believe dwellings , their mother hung thin sliced meats upon long willow racks . 
As fast as the meats were dried and seasoned by sun and wind , she packed them carefully away in a large thick bag . 
This bag was like a huge stiff envelope , but far more beautiful to see , for it was painted all over with many bright colors . 
These firmly tied bags of dried meat were laid upon the rocks in the walls of the dwelling . 
In this way they were both useful and decorative . 
One day father badger did not go off for a hunt . 
He stayed at home , making new arrows . 
His children sat about him on the ground floor . 
Their small black eyes danced with delight as they watched the gay colors painted upon the arrows . 
All of a sudden there was heard a heavy footfall near the entrance way . 
The oval shaped door frame was pushed aside . 
In stepped a large black foot with great big claws . 
Then the other clumsy foot came next . 
All the while the baby badgers stared hard at the unexpected comer . 
After the second foot , in peeped the head of a big black bear ! His black nose was dry and parched . 
Silently he entered the dwelling and sat down on the ground by the doorway . 
His black eyes never left the painted bags on the rocky walls . 
He guessed what was in them . 
He was a very hungry bear . 
Seeing the racks of red meat hanging in the yard , he had come to visit the badger family . 
Will you eat with us ? Yes , my friend , said the bear . 
I saw your racks of red fresh meat , and knowing your heart is kind , I came hither . 
Give me meat to eat , my friend . 
How , how ! replied the bear , drawing himself closer to the wall and crossing his shins together . 
Mother badger chose the most tender red meat , and soon over a bed of coals she broiled the venison . 
That day the bear had all he could eat . 
At nightfall he rose , and smacking his lips together , that is the noisy way of saying the food was very good ! he left the badger dwelling . 
The baby badgers , peeping through the door flap after the shaggy bear , saw him disappear into the woods near by . 
Day after day the crackling of twigs in the forest told of heavy footsteps . 
Out would come the same black bear . 
He never lifted the door flap , but thrusting it aside entered slowly in . 
Always in the same place by the entrance way he sat down with crossed shins . 
His daily visits were so regular that mother badger placed a fur rug in his place . 
She did not wish a guest in her dwelling to sit upon the bare hard ground . 
At last one time when the bear returned , his nose was bright and black . 
He had grown fat upon the badger's hospitality . 
As he entered the dwelling a pair of wicked gleams shot out of his shaggy head . 
He said I am strong , very strong ! Yes , yes , so you are , replied the badger . 
From the farther end of the room mother badger muttered over her bead work Yes , you grew strong from our well filled bowls . 
The bear smiled , showing a row of large sharp teeth . 
I have no bags of dried meat . 
All these I have found here on this spot , said he , stamping his heavy foot . 
I want them ! See ! I am strong ! repeated he , lifting both his terrible paws . 
Quietly the father badger spoke I fed you . 
I called you friend , though you came here a stranger and a beggar . 
For the sake of my little ones leave us in peace . 
Mother badger , in her excited way , had pierced hard through the buckskin and stuck her fingers repeatedly with her sharp awl until she had laid aside her work . 
Now , while her husband was talking to the bear , she motioned with her hands to the children . 
On tiptoe they hastened to her side . 
For reply came a low growl . 
It grew louder and more fierce . 
Wa ough ! he roared , and by force hurled the badgers out . 
First the father badger then the mother . 
The little badgers he tossed by pairs . 
He threw them hard upon the ground . 
No sooner had the baby badgers caught their breath than they howled and shrieked with pain and fright . 
He made it of bent willows and covered it with dry grass and twigs . 
This was shelter for the night but alas ! it was empty of food and arrows . 
All day father badger prowled through the forest , but without his arrows he could not get food for his children . 
Upon his return , the cry of the little ones for meat , the sad quiet of the mother with bowed head , hurt him like a poisoned arrow wound . 
I'll beg meat for you ! said he in an unsteady voice . 
Covering his head and entire body in a long loose robe he halted beside the big black bear . 
The bear was slicing red meat to hang upon the rack . 
He did not pause for a look at the comer . 
As the badger stood there unrecognized , he saw that the bear had brought with him his whole family . 
Little cubs played under the high hanging new meats . 
They laughed and pointed with their wee noses upward at the thin sliced meats upon the poles . 
Have you no heart , Black Bear ? My children are starving . 
Give me a small piece of meat for them , begged the badger . 
Wa ough ! growled the angry bear , and pounced upon the badger . 
Be gone ! said he , and with his big hind foot he sent father badger sprawling on the ground . 
All the little ruffian bears hooted and shouted ha ha ! to see the beggar fall upon his face . 
There was one , however , who did not even smile . 
He was the youngest cub . 
His fur coat was not as black and glossy as those his elders wore . 
The hair was dry and dingy . 
It looked much more like kinky wool . 
He was the ugly cub . 
Poor little baby bear ! he had always been laughed at by his older brothers . 
He could not help being himself . 
He could not change the differences between himself and his brothers . 
Thus again , though the rest laughed aloud at the badger's fall , he did not see the joke . 
His face was long and earnest . 
In his heart he was sad to see the badgers crying and starving . 
In his breast spread a burning desire to share his food with them . 
I shall not ask my father for meat to give away . 
He would say 'No ! Then my brothers would laugh at me , said the ugly baby bear to himself . 
In an instant , as if his good intention had passed from him , he was singing happily and skipping around his father at work . 
He was ambling toward the small round hut . 
When directly in front of the entrance way , he made a quick side kick with his left hind leg . 
Lo ! there fell into the badger's hut a piece of fresh meat . 
It was tough meat , full of sinews , yet it was the only piece he could take without his father's notice . 
Thus having given meat to the hungry badgers , the ugly baby bear ran quickly away to his father again . 
On the following day the father badger came back once more . 
He stood watching the big bear cutting thin slices of meat . 
Give he began , when the bear turning upon him with a growl , thrust him cruelly aside . 
The badger fell on his hands . 
He fell where the grass was wet with the blood of the newly carved buffalo . 
His keen starving eyes caught sight of a little red clot lying bright upon the green . 
Looking fearfully toward the bear and seeing his head was turned away , he snatched up the small thick blood . 
Underneath his girdled blanket he hid it in his hand . 
On his return to his family , he said within himself I'll pray the Great Spirit to bless it . 
Thus he built a small round lodge . 
Sprinkling water upon the heated heap of sacred stones within , he made ready to purge his body . 
The buffalo blood , too , must be purified before I ask a blessing upon it , thought the badger . 
He carried it into the sacred vapor lodge . 
After placing it near the sacred stones , he sat down beside it . 
After a long silence , he muttered Great Spirit , bless this little buffalo blood . 
Then he arose , and with a quiet dignity stepped out of the lodge . 
Close behind him some one followed . 
The badger turned to look over his shoulder and to his great joy he beheld a Dakota brave in handsome buckskins . 
In his hand he carried a magic arrow . 
Across his back dangled a long fringed quiver . 
In answer to the badger's prayer , the avenger had sprung from out the red globules . 
My son ! exclaimed the badger with extended right hand . 
How , father , replied the brave I am your avenger ! Immediately the badger told the sad story of his hungry little ones and the stingy bear . 
Listening closely the young man stood looking steadily upon the ground . 
At length the father badger moved away . 
Where ? queried the avenger . 
My son , we have no food . 
I am going again to beg for meat , answered the badger . 
Then I go with you , replied the young brave . 
This made the old badger happy . 
He was proud of his son . 
He was delighted to be called father by the first human creature . 
The bear saw the badger coming in the distance . 
He narrowed his eyes at the tall stranger walking beside him . 
At once he guessed it was the avenger of whom he had heard long , long ago . 
As they approached , the bear stood erect with a hand on his thigh . 
How , badger , my friend ! Here is my knife . 
Cut your favorite pieces from the deer , said he , holding out a long thin blade . 
How ! said the badger eagerly . 
He wondered what had inspired the big bear to such a generous deed . 
The young avenger waited till the badger took the long knife in his hand . 
Gazing full into the black bear's face , he said I come to do justice . 
You have returned only a knife to my poor father . 
Now return to him his dwelling . 
His voice was deep and powerful . 
In his black eyes burned a steady fire . 
The long strong teeth of the bear rattled against each other , and his shaggy body shook with fear . 
Ahow ! cried he , as if he had been shot . 
Running into the dwelling he gasped , breathless and trembling , Come out , all of you ! This is the badger's dwelling . 
We must flee to the forest for fear of the avenger who carries the magic arrow . 
Out they hurried , all the bears , and disappeared into the woods . 
Singing and laughing , the badgers returned to their own dwelling . 
Then the avenger left them . 
I go , said he in parting , over the earth . 
THE TREE BOUND THE TREE BOUND IT was a clear summer day . 
The blue , blue sky dropped low over the edge of the green level land . 
A large yellow sun hung directly overhead . 
The singing of birds filled the summer space between earth and sky with sweet music . 
Again and again sang a yellow breasted birdie Koda Ni Dakota ! He insisted upon it . 
He was handsome in his paint and feathers , proud with his great buckskin quiver on his back and a long bow in his hand . 
Afar to an eastern camp of cone shaped teepees he was going . 
There over the Indian village hovered a large red eagle threatening the safety of the people . 
Every morning rose this terrible red bird out of a high chalk bluff and spreading out his gigantic wings soared slowly over the round camp ground . 
Then it was that the people , terror stricken , ran screaming into their lodges . 
Covering their heads with their blankets , they sat trembling with fear . 
No one dared to venture out till the red eagle had disappeared beyond the west , where meet the blue and green . 
In vain tried the chieftain of the tribe to find among his warriors a powerful marksman who could send a death arrow to the man hungry bird . 
At last to urge his men to their utmost skill he bade his crier proclaim a new reward . 
Of the chieftain's two beautiful daughters he would have his choice who brought the dreaded red eagle with an arrow in its breast . 
Upon hearing these words , the men of the village , both young and old , both heroes and cowards , trimmed new arrows for the contest . 
Some cunning old warriors stayed not with the group . 
They crouched low upon the open ground . 
But all eyes alike were fixed upon the top of the high bluff . 
Breathless they watched for the soaring of the red eagle . 
From within the dwellings many eyes peeped through the small holes in the front lapels of the teepee . 
With shaking knees and hard set teeth , the women peered out upon the Dakota men prowling about with bows and arrows . 
At length when the morning sun also peeped over the eastern horizon at the armed Dakotas , the red eagle walked out upon the edge of the cliff . 
Pluming his gorgeous feathers , he ruffled his neck and flapped his strong wings together . 
Then he dived into the air . 
Slowly he winged his way over the round camp ground over the men with their strong bows and arrows ! In an instant the long bows were bent . 
Strong straight arrows with red feathered tips sped upward to the blue sky . 
Ah ! slowly moved those indifferent wings , untouched by the poison beaked arrows . 
Off to the west beyond the reach of arrow , beyond the reach of eye , the red eagle flew away . 
A sudden clamor of high pitched voices broke the deadly stillness of the dawn . 
The women talked excitedly about the invulnerable red of the eagle's feathers , while the would be heroes sulked within their wigwams . 
He he he ! groaned the chieftain . 
On the evening of the same day sat a group of hunters around a bright burning fire . 
They were talking of a strange young man whom they spied while out upon a hunt for deer beyond the bluffs . 
They saw the stranger taking aim . 
Following the point of his arrow with their eyes , they beheld a herd of buffalo . 
The arrow sprang from the bow ! It darted into the skull of the foremost buffalo . 
But unlike other arrows it pierced through the head of the creature and spinning in the air lit into the next buffalo head . 
One by one the buffalo fell upon the sweet grass they were grazing . 
With straight quivering limbs they lay on their sides . 
The young man stood calmly by , counting on his fingers the buffalo as they dropped dead to the ground . 
When the last one fell , he ran thither and picking up his magic arrow wiped it carefully on the soft grass . 
He slipped it into his long fringed quiver . 
He is going to make a feast for some hungry tribe of men or beasts ! cried the hunters among themselves as they hastened away . 
They were afraid of the stranger with the sacred arrow . 
When the hunter's tale of the stranger's arrow reached the ears of the chieftain , his face brightened with a smile . 
He sent forth fleet horsemen , to learn of him his birth , his name , and his deeds . 
If he is the avenger with the magic arrow , sprung up from the earth out of a clot of buffalo blood , bid him come hither . 
Let him kill the red eagle with his magic arrow . 
After four days and nights the braves returned . 
He is coming , they said . 
He is straight and tall handsome in face , with large black eyes . 
He paints his round cheeks with bright red , and wears the penciled lines of red over his temples like our men of honored rank . 
He carries on his back a long fringed quiver in which he keeps his magic arrow . 
His bow is long and strong . 
He is coming now to kill the big red eagle . 
All around the camp ground from mouth to ear passed those words of the returned messengers . 
Now it chanced that immortal Iktomi , fully recovered from the brown burnt spots , overheard the people talking . 
At once he was filled with a new desire . 
If only I had the magic arrow , I would kill the red eagle and win the chieftain's daughter for a wife , said he in his heart . 
Back to his lonely wigwam he hastened . 
Beneath the tree in front of his teepee he sat upon the ground with chin between his drawn up knees . 
His keen eyes scanned the wide plain . 
He was watching for the avenger . 
'He is coming ! said the people , muttered old Iktomi . 
All of a sudden he raised an open palm to his brow and peered afar into the west . 
The summer sun hung bright in the middle of a cloudless sky . 
There across the green prairie was a man walking bareheaded toward the east . 
Ha ! ha ! 'tis he ! the man with the magic arrow ! laughed Iktomi . 
The young avenger walked with swaying strides nearer and nearer toward the lonely wigwam and tree . 
Iktomi heard the swish ! swish ! of the stranger's feet through the tall grass . 
You are going to some feast or dance , may I ask ? Seeing the young man only smiled Iktomi went on I have not had a mouthful of food this day . 
Have pity on me , young brave , and shoot yonder bird for me ! With these words Iktomi pointed toward the tree top , where sat a bird on the highest branch . 
The young avenger , always ready to help those in distress , sent an arrow upward and the bird fell . 
In the next branch it was caught between the forked prongs . 
My friend , climb the tree and get the bird . 
I cannot climb so high . 
I would get dizzy and fall , pleaded Iktomi . 
The avenger began to scale the tree , when Iktomi cried to him My friend , your beaded buckskins may be torn by the branches . 
Leave them safe upon the grass till you are down again . 
You are right , replied the young man , quickly slipping off his long fringed quiver . 
Together with his dangling pouches and tinkling ornaments , he placed it on the ground . 
Now he climbed the tree unhindered . 
Soon from the top he took the bird . 
My friend , toss to me your arrow that I may have the honor of wiping it clean on soft deerskin ! exclaimed Iktomi . 
How ! said the brave , and threw the bird and arrow to the ground . 
At once Iktomi seized the arrow . 
Rubbing it first on the grass and then on a piece of deerskin , he muttered indistinct words all the while . 
Again stooping over the arrow Iktomi continued his repetition of charm words . 
Grow fast , grow fast to the bark of the tree , he whispered . 
Still the young man moved slowly downward . 
Ah ! ha ! laughed the bad Iktomi . 
But Iktomi's ears were like the fungus on a tree . 
He did not hear with them . 
Wearing the handsome buckskins and carrying proudly the magic arrow in his right hand , he started off eastward . 
Imitating the swaying strides of the avenger , he walked away with a face turned slightly skyward . 
Oh , set me free ! I am glued to the tree like its own bark ! Cut me loose ! moaned the prisoner . 
A young woman , carrying on her strong back a bundle of tightly bound willow sticks , passed near by the lonely teepee . 
She heard the wailing man's voice . 
She paused to listen to the sad words . 
Looking around she saw nowhere a human creature . 
It may be a spirit , thought she . 
Oh ! cut me loose ! set me free ! Iktomi has played me false ! He has made me bark of his tree ! cried the voice again . 
The young woman dropped her pack of firewood to the ground . 
With her stone axe she hurried to the tree . 
There before her astonished eyes clung a young brave close to the tree . 
Too shy for words , yet too kind hearted to leave the stranger tree bound , she cut loose the whole bark . 
Like an open jacket she drew it to the ground . 
With it came the young man also . 
Free once more , he started away . 
Looking backward , a few paces from the young woman , he waved his hand , upward and downward , before her face . 
This was a sign of gratitude used when words failed to interpret strong emotion . 
When the bewildered woman reached her dwelling , she mounted a pony and rode swiftly across the rolling land . 
To the camp ground in the east , to the chieftain troubled by the red eagle , she carried her story . 
SHOOTING OF THE RED EAGLE SHOOTING OF THE RED EAGLE A MAN in buckskins sat upon the top of a little hillock . 
The setting sun shone bright upon a strong bow in his hand . 
His face was turned toward the round camp ground at the foot of the hill . 
He had walked a long journey hither . 
He was waiting for the chieftain's men to spy him . 
Soon four strong men ran forth from the center wigwam toward the hillock , where sat the man with the long bow . 
He is the avenger come to shoot the red eagle , cried the runners to each other as they bent forward swinging their elbows together . 
They reached the side of the stranger , but he did not heed them . 
Proud and silent he gazed upon the cone shaped wigwams beneath him . 
Spreading a handsomely decorated buffalo robe before the man , two of the warriors lifted him by each shoulder and placed him gently on it . 
Then the four men took , each , a corner of the blanket and carried the stranger , with long proud steps , toward the chieftain's teepee . 
Ready to greet the stranger , the tall chieftain stood at the entrance way . 
How , you are the avenger with the magic arrow ! said he , extending to him a smooth soft hand . 
How , great chieftain ! replied the man , holding long the chieftain's hand . 
Entering the teepee , the chieftain motioned the young man to the right side of the doorway , while he sat down opposite him with a center fire burning between them . 
Wordless , like a bashful Indian maid , the avenger ate in silence the food set before him on the ground in front of his crossed shins . 
With the magic arrow in his quiver the stranger felt not in the least too presuming in addressing the woman as his mother in law . 
Complaining of fatigue , he covered his face with his blanket and soon within the chieftain's teepee he lay fast asleep . 
The young man is not handsome after all ! whispered the woman in her husband's ear . 
Ah , but after he has killed the red eagle he will seem handsome enough ! answered the chieftain . 
That night the star men in their burial procession in the sky reached the low northern horizon , before the center fires within the teepees had flickered out . 
The ringing laughter which had floated up through the smoke lapels was now hushed , and only the distant howling of wolves broke the quiet of the village . 
But the lull between midnight and dawn was short indeed . 
Very early the oval shaped door flaps were thrust aside and many brown faces peered out of the wigwams toward the top of the highest bluff . 
Now the sun rose up out of the east . 
The red painted avenger stood ready within the camp ground for the flying of the red eagle . 
He appeared , that terrible bird ! He hovered over the round village as if he could pounce down upon it and devour the whole tribe . 
All his arrows he spent in vain . 
Ah ! my blanket brushed my elbow and shifted the course of my arrow ! said the stranger as the people gathered around him . 
During this happening , a woman on horseback halted her pony at the chieftain's teepee . 
It was no other than the young woman who cut loose the tree bound captive ! While she told the story the chieftain listened with downcast face . 
I passed him on my way . 
He is near ! she ended . 
Indignant at the bold impostor , the wrathful eyes of the chieftain snapped fire like red cinders in the night time . 
At length to the woman he said How , you have done me a good deed . 
Then with quick decision he gave command to a fleet horseman to meet the avenger . 
Clothe him in these my best buckskins , said he , pointing to a bundle within the wigwam . 
In the meanwhile strong men seized Iktomi and dragged him by his long hair to the hilltop . 
There upon a mock pillared grave they bound him hand and feet . 
Grown ups and children sneered and hooted at Iktomi's disgrace . 
For a half day he lay there , the laughing stock of the people . 
Upon the arrival of the real avenger , Iktomi was released and chased away beyond the outer limits of the camp ground . 
On the following morning at daybreak , peeped the people out of half open door flaps . 
There again in the midst of the large camp ground was a man in beaded buckskins . 
In his hand was a strong bow and red tipped arrow . 
Again the big red eagle appeared on the edge of the bluff . 
He plumed his feathers and flapped his huge wings . 
The young man crouched low to the ground . 
He placed the arrow on the bow , drawing a poisoned flint for the eagle . 
The bird rose into the air . 
He moved his outspread wings one , two , three times and lo ! the eagle tumbled from the great height and fell heavily to the earth . 
In awe and amazement the village was dumb . 
And when the avenger , plucking a red eagle feather , placed it in his black hair , a loud shout of the people went up to the sky . 
Then hither and thither ran singing men and women making a great feast for the avenger . 
Thus he won the beautiful Indian princess who never tired of telling to her children the story of the big red eagle . 
stood bent over a newly slain deer . 
The red tipped arrow he drew from the wounded deer was unlike the arrows in his own quiver . 
Another's stray shot had killed the deer . 
Patkasa had hunted all the morning without so much as spying an ordinary blackbird . 
At last returning homeward , tired and heavy hearted that he had no meat for the hungry mouths in his wigwam , he walked slowly with downcast eyes . 
Kind ghosts pitied the unhappy hunter and led him to the newly slain deer , that his children should not cry for food . 
When Patkasa stumbled upon the deer in his path , he exclaimed Good spirits have pushed me hither ! Thus he leaned long over the gift of the friendly ghosts . 
How , my friend ! said a voice behind his ear , and a hand fell on his shoulder . 
It was not a spirit this time . 
How , Iktomi ! answered Patkasa , still stooping over the deer . 
My friend , you are a skilled hunter , began Iktomi , smiling a thin smile which spread from one ear to the other . 
Suddenly raising up his head Patkasa's black eyes twinkled as he asked Oh , you really say so ? Yes , my friend , you are a skillful fellow . 
Now let us have a little contest . 
Let us see who can jump over the deer without touching a hair on his hide , suggested Iktomi . 
Oh , I fear I cannot do it ! cried Patkasa , rubbing his funny , thick palms together . 
Have no coward's doubt , Patkasa . 
I say you are a skillful fellow who finds nothing hard to do . 
With these words Iktomi led Patkasa a short distance away . 
In little puffs Patkasa laughed uneasily . 
Now , you may jump first , said Iktomi . 
Patkasa , with doubled fists , swung his fat arms to and fro , all the while biting hard his under lip . 
Just before the run and leap Iktomi put in Let the winner have the deer to eat ! It was too late now to say no . 
Patkasa was more afraid of being called a coward than of losing the deer . 
Ho wo , he replied , still working his short arms . 
At length he started off on the run . 
So quick and small were his steps that he seemed to be kicking the ground only . 
Then the leap ! But Patkasa tripped upon a stick and fell hard against the side of the deer . 
He he he ! exclaimed Iktomi , pretending disappointment that his friend had fallen . 
The game is mine ! laughed he , patting the sullen Patkasa on the back . 
My friend , watch the deer while I go to bring my children , said Iktomi , darting lightly through the tall grass . 
Patkasa was always ready to believe the words of scheming people and to do the little favors any one asked of him . 
However , on this occasion , he did not answer Yes , my friend . 
He realized that Iktomi's flattering tongue had made him foolish . 
The sound of laughter grew louder and louder . 
All of a sudden it became hushed . 
Old Iktomi led his young Iktomi brood to the place where he had left the turtle , but it was vacant . 
Nowhere was there any sign of Patkasa or the deer . 
Then the babes did howl ! Be still ! said father Iktomi to his children . 
I know where Patkasa lives . 
I shall take you to the turtle's dwelling . 
He ran along a narrow footpath toward the creek near by . 
Close upon his heels came his children with tear streaked faces . 
There ! said Iktomi in a loud whisper as he gathered his little ones on the bank . 
They peered into the water . 
Now , I will cool Patkasa's fire . 
I shall bring you the broiled venison . 
Thus saying Iktomi plunged into the creek . 
Splash ! splash ! the water leaped upward into spray . 
Scarcely had it become leveled and smooth than there bubbled up many black spots . 
The creek was seething with the dancing of round black things . 
The cooled fire ! The coals ! laughed the brood of Iktomis . 
Clapping together their little hands , they chased one another along the edge of the creek . 
They shouted and hooted with great glee . 
Ahas ! said a gruff voice across the water . 
In a large willow tree leaning far over the water he sat upon a large limb . 
On the very same branch was a bright burning fire over which Patkasa broiled the venison . 
By this time the water was calm again . 
No more danced those black spots on its surface , for they were the toes of old Iktomi . 
The Iktomi children hurried away from the creek , crying and calling for their water dead father . 
DANCE IN A BUFFALO SKULL DANCE IN A BUFFALO SKULL IT was night upon the prairie . 
Overhead the stars were twinkling bright their red and yellow lights . 
A silvery thread among the stars , it soon drifted low beneath the horizon . 
Upon the ground the land was pitchy black . 
There are night people on the plain who love the dark . 
Amid the black level land they meet to frolic under the stars . 
Then when their sharp ears hear any strange footfalls nigh they scamper away into the deep shadows of night . 
There they are safely hid from all dangers , they think . 
Thus it was that one very black night , afar off from the edge of the level land , out of the wooded river bottom glided forth two balls of fire . 
They came farther and farther into the level land . 
They grew larger and brighter . 
The dark hid the body of the creature with those fiery eyes . 
They came on and on , just over the tops of the prairie grass . 
It might have been a wildcat prowling low on soft , stealthy feet . 
Slowly but surely the terrible eyes drew nearer and nearer to the heart of the level land . 
They were laughing and talking among themselves while their chosen singers sang loud a merry tune . 
They built a small open fire within the center of their queer dance house . 
The light streamed out of the buffalo skull through all the curious sockets and holes . 
A light on the plain in the middle of the night was an unusual thing . 
But so merry were the mice they did not hear the king , king of sleepy birds , disturbed by the unaccustomed fire . 
Even the cry of the wolves was unheeded by the mice within the lighted buffalo skull . 
They were feasting and dancing they were singing and laughing those funny little furry fellows . 
All the while across the dark from out the low river bottom came that pair of fiery eyes . 
Now closer and more swift , now fiercer and glaring , the eyes moved toward the buffalo skull . 
All unconscious of those fearful eyes , the happy mice nibbled at dried roots and venison . 
The singers had started another song . 
The drummers beat the time , turning their heads from side to side in rhythm . 
In a ring around the fire hopped the mice , each bouncing hard on his two hind feet . 
Some carried their tails over their arms , while others trailed them proudly along . 
Ah , very near are those round yellow eyes ! Very low to the ground they seem to creep creep toward the buffalo skull . 
All of a sudden they slide into the eye sockets of the old skull . 
Spirit of the buffalo ! squeaked a frightened mouse as he jumped out from a hole in the back part of the skull . 
A cat ! a cat ! cried other mice as they scrambled out of holes both large and snug . 
Noiseless they ran away into the dark . 
THE TOAD AND THE BOY THE TOAD AND THE BOY THE water fowls were flying over the marshy lakes . 
It was now the hunting season . 
Indian men , with bows and arrows , were wading waist deep amid the wild rice . 
Near by , within their wigwams , the wives were roasting wild duck and making down pillows . 
In the largest teepee sat a young mother wrapping red porcupine quills about the long fringes of a buckskin cushion . 
Beside her lay a black eyed baby boy cooing and laughing . 
Reaching and kicking upward with his tiny hands and feet , he played with the dangling strings of his heavy beaded bonnet hanging empty on a tent pole above him . 
At length the mother laid aside her red quills and white sinew threads . 
The babe fell fast asleep . 
Leaning on one hand and softly whispering a little lullaby , she threw a light cover over her baby . 
It was almost time for the return of her husband . 
She was strong and swung an ax as skillfully as any man . 
Her loose buckskin dress was made for such freedom . 
Soon carrying easily a bundle of long willows on her back , with a loop of rope over both her shoulders , she came striding homeward . 
Near the entrance way she stooped low , at once shifting the bundle to the right and with both hands lifting the noose from over her head . 
Having thus dropped the wood to the ground , she disappeared into her teepee . 
In a moment she came running out again , crying , My son ! My little son is gone ! Her keen eyes swept east and west and all around her . 
There was nowhere any sign of the child . 
We have not seen your child ! What has happened ? queried the women . 
With great tears in her eyes the mother told her story . 
We will search with you , they said to her as she started off . 
They met the returning husbands , who turned about and joined in the hunt for the missing child . 
Along the shore of the lakes , among the high grown reeds , they looked in vain . 
He was nowhere to be found . 
After many days and nights the search was given up . 
It was sad , indeed , to hear the mother wailing aloud for her little son . 
It was growing late in the autumn . 
The birds were flying high toward the south . 
The teepees around the lakes were gone , save one lonely dwelling . 
Till the winter snow covered the ground and ice covered the lakes , the wailing woman's voice was heard from that solitary wigwam . 
From some far distance was also the sound of the father's voice singing a sad song . 
Thus ten summers and as many winters have come and gone since the strange disappearance of the little child . 
Every autumn with the hunters came the unhappy parents of the lost baby to search again for him . 
One evening , across the lake from where the crying woman stood , a pair of bright black eyes peered at her through the tall reeds and wild rice . 
A little wild boy stopped his play among the tall grasses . 
His long , loose hair hanging down his brown back and shoulders was carelessly tossed from his round face . 
He wore a loin cloth of woven sweet grass . 
Crouching low to the marshy ground , he listened to the wailing voice . 
As the voice grew hoarse and only sobs shook the slender figure of the woman , the eyes of the wild boy grew dim and wet . 
At length , when the moaning ceased , he sprang to his feet and ran like a nymph with swift outstretched toes . 
He rushed into a small hut of reeds and grasses . 
Mother ! Mother ! Tell me what voice it was I heard which pleased my ears , but made my eyes grow wet ! said he , breathless . 
Han , my son , grunted a big , ugly toad . 
It was the voice of a weeping woman you heard . 
My son , do not say you like it . 
Do not tell me it brought tears to your eyes . 
You have never heard me weep . 
I can please your ear and break your heart . 
Listen ! replied the great old toad . 
Stepping outside , she stood by the entrance way . 
She was old and badly puffed out . 
She had reared a large family of little toads , but none of them had aroused her love , nor ever grieved her . 
She had heard the wailing human voice and marveled at the throat which produced the strange sound . 
Now , in her great desire to keep the stolen boy awhile longer , she ventured to cry as the Dakota woman does . 
Having shrieked in a torturing voice and mouthed extravagant names , the old toad rolled her tearless eyes with great satisfaction . 
I cannot keep him longer , I fear . 
Oh , no , I cannot give away the pretty creature I have taught to call me 'mother' all these many winters . 
Mother , went on the child voice , tell me one thing . 
Tell me why my little brothers and sisters are all unlike me . 
The big , ugly toad , looking at her pudgy children , said The eldest is always best . 
This reply quieted the boy for a while . 
Very closely watched the old toad mother her stolen human son . 
When by chance he started off alone , she shoved out one of her own children after him , saying Do not come back without your big brother . 
Thus the wild boy with the long , loose hair sits every day on a marshy island hid among the tall reeds . 
But he is not alone . 
Always at his feet hops a little toad brother . 
One day an Indian hunter , wading in the deep waters , spied the boy . 
He had heard of the baby stolen long ago . 
This is he ! murmured the hunter to himself as he ran to his wigwam . 
I saw among the tall reeds a black haired boy at play ! shouted he to the people . 
At once the unhappy father and mother cried out , 'Tis he , our boy ! Quickly he led them to the lake . 
Peeping through the wild rice , he pointed with unsteady finger toward the boy playing all unawares . 
'Tis he ! 'tis he ! cried the mother , for she knew him . 
In silence the hunter stood aside , while the happy father and mother caressed their baby boy grown tall . 
IYA , THE CAMP EATER IYA , THE CAMP EATER FROM the tall grass came the voice of a crying babe . 
The huntsmen who were passing nigh heard and halted . 
The tallest one among them hastened toward the high grass with long , cautious strides . 
He waded through the growth of green with just a head above it all . 
Suddenly exclaiming Hunhe ! he dropped out of sight . 
In another instant he held up in both his hands a tiny little baby , wrapped in soft brown buckskins . 
Oh ho , a wood child ! cried the men , for they were hunting along the wooded river bottom where this babe was found . 
While the hunters were questioning whether or no they should carry it home , the wee Indian baby kept up his little howl . 
His voice is strong ! said one . 
At times it sounds like an old man's voice ! whispered a superstitious fellow , who feared some bad spirit hid in the small child to cheat them by and by . 
Let us take it to our wise chieftain , at length they said and the moment they started toward the camp ground the strange wood child ceased to cry . 
Beside the chieftain's teepee waited the hunters while the tall man entered with the child . 
How ! how ! nodded the kind faced chieftain , listening to the queer story . 
Then rising , he took the infant in his strong arms gently he laid the black eyed babe in his daughter's lap . 
This is to be your little son ! said he , smiling . 
Yes , father , she replied . 
Pleased with the child , she smoothed the long black hair fringing his round brown face . 
Tell the people that I give a feast and dance this day for the naming of my daughter's little son , bade the chieftain . 
No ! no ! Let us not be overcautious . 
It would be cowardly to leave a baby in the wild wood where prowl the hungry wolves ! answered an elderly man . 
The tall man now came out of the chieftain's teepee . 
With a word he sent them to their dwellings half running with joy . 
A feast ! a dance for the naming of the chieftain's grandchild ! cried he in a loud voice to the village people . 
What ? what ? asked they in great surprise , holding a hand to the ear to catch the words of the crier . 
There was a momentary silence among the people while they listened to the ringing voice of the man walking in the center ground . 
Then broke forth a rippling , laughing babble among the cone shaped teepees . 
All were glad to hear of the chieftain's grandson . 
They were happy to attend the feast and dance for its naming . 
With excited fingers they twisted their hair into glossy braids and painted their cheeks with bright red paint . 
To and fro hurried the women , handsome in their gala day dress . 
Men in loose deerskins , with long tinkling metal fringes , strode in small numbers toward the center of the round camp ground . 
Here underneath a temporary shade house of green leaves they were to dance and feast . 
The children in deerskins and paints , just like their elders , were jolly little men and women . 
Beside their eager parents they skipped along toward the green dance house . 
Here seated in a large circle , the people were assembled , the proud chieftain rose with the little baby in his arms . 
The noisy hum of voices was hushed . 
Not a tinkling of a metal fringe broke the silence . 
The crier came forward to greet the chieftain , then bent attentively over the small babe , listening to the words of the chieftain . 
When he paused the crier spoke aloud to the people This woodland child is adopted by the chieftain's eldest daughter . 
He wears the title of the eldest son . 
In honor of Chaske the chieftain gives this feast and dance ! These are the words of him you see holding a baby in his arms . 
Yes ! Yes ! Hinnu ! How ! came from the circle . 
At once the drummers beat softly and slowly their drum while the chosen singers hummed together to find the common pitch . 
The beat of the drum grew louder and faster . 
The singers burst forth in a lively tune . 
Then the drumbeats subsided and faintly marked the rhythm of the singing . 
Here and there bounced up men and women , both young and old . 
They danced and sang with merry light hearts . 
Then came the hour of feasting . 
Late into the night the air of the camp ground was alive with the laughing voices of women and the singing in unison of young men . 
Within her father's teepee sat the chieftain's daughter . 
Proud of her little one , she watched over him asleep in her lap . 
Gradually a deep quiet stole over the camp ground , as one by one the people fell into pleasant dreams . 
Now all the village was still . 
Alone sat the beautiful young mother watching the babe in her lap , asleep with a gaping little mouth . 
Amid the quiet of the night , her ear heard the far off hum of many voices . 
The faint sound of murmuring people was in the air . 
Upward she glanced at the smoke hole of the wigwam and saw a bright star peeping down upon her . 
Spirits in the air above ? she wondered . 
Yet there was no sign to tell her of their nearness . 
The fine small sound of voices grew larger and nearer . 
Father ! rise ! I hear the coming of some tribe . 
Hostile or friendly I cannot tell . 
Rise and see ! whispered the young woman . 
Yes , my daughter ! answered the chieftain , springing to his feet . 
Though asleep , his ear was ever alert . 
Thus rushing out into the open , he listened for strange sounds . 
With an eagle eye he scanned the camp ground for some sign . 
Returning he said My daughter , I hear nothing and see no sign of evil nigh . 
Oh ! the sound of many voices comes up from the earth about me ! exclaimed the young mother . 
Bending low over her babe she gave ear to the ground . 
Mother , listen and tell me if this child is an evil spirit come to destroy our camp ! she whispered loud . 
Placing an ear close to the open baby mouth , the chieftain and his wife , each in turn heard the voices of a great camp . 
The singing of men and women , the beating of the drum , the rattling of deer hoofs strung like bells on a string , these were the sounds they heard . 
We must go away , said the chieftain , leading them into the night . 
Out in the open he whispered to the frightened young woman Iya , the camp eater , has come in the guise of a babe . 
Had you gone to sleep , he would have jumped out into his own shape and would have devoured our camp . 
He is a giant with spindling legs . 
He cannot fight , for he cannot run . 
He is powerful only in the night with his tricks . 
We are safe as soon as day breaks . 
Then moving closer to the woman , he whispered If he wakes now , he will swallow the whole tribe with one hideous gulp ! Come , we must flee with our people . 
Thus creeping from teepee to teepee a secret alarm signal was given . 
At midnight the teepees were gone and there was left no sign of the village save heaps of dead ashes . 
So quietly had the people folded their wigwams and bundled their tent poles that they slipped away unheard by the sleeping Iya babe . 
When the morning sun arose , the babe awoke . 
Seeing himself deserted , he threw off his baby form in a hot rage . 
Wearing his own ugly shape , his huge body toppled to and fro , from side to side , on a pair of thin legs far too small for their burden . 
Though with every move he came dangerously nigh to falling , he followed in the trail of the fleeing people . 
I shall eat you in the sight of a noon day sun ! cried Iya in his vain rage , when he spied them encamped beyond a river . 
By some unknown cunning he swam the river and sought his way toward the teepees . 
Hin ! hin ! he grunted and growled . 
With perspiration beading his brow he strove to wiggle his slender legs beneath his giant form . 
Ha ! ha ! laughed all the village people to see Iya made foolish with anger . 
Such spindle legs cannot stand to fight by daylight ! shouted the brave ones who were terror struck the night before by the name Iya . 
Warriors with long knives rushed forth and slew the camp eater . 
Lo ! there rose out of the giant a whole Indian tribe their camp ground , their teepees in a large circle , and the people laughing and dancing . 
We are glad to be free ! said these strange people . 
Thus Iya was killed and no more are the camp grounds in danger of being swallowed up in a single night time . 
MANSTIN , THE RABBIT MANSTIN , THE RABBIT MANSTIN was an adventurous brave , but very kind hearted . 
Stamping a moccasined foot as he drew on his buckskin leggins , he said Grandmother , beware of Iktomi ! Do not let him lure you into some cunning trap . 
I am going to the North country on a long hunt . 
With these words of caution to the bent old rabbit grandmother with whom he had lived since he was a tiny babe , Manstin started off toward the north . 
He was scarce over the great high hills when he heard the shrieking of a human child . 
Wan ! he ejaculated , pointing his long ears toward the direction of the sound Wan ! that is the work of cruel Double Face . 
With a wicked gleaming eye , he watched the little black haired baby he held in his strong arm . 
In a laughing voice he hummed an Indian mother's lullaby , A boo ! Aboo ! and at the same time he switched the naked baby with a thorny wild rose bush . 
Quickly Manstin jumped behind a large sage bush on the brow of the hill . 
He bent his bow and the sinewy string twanged . 
Now an arrow stuck above the ear of Double Face . 
It was a poisoned arrow , and the giant fell dead . 
Then Manstin took the little brown baby and hurried away from the ravine . 
Soon he came to a teepee from whence loud wailing voices broke . 
It was the teepee of the stolen baby and the mourners were its heart broken parents . 
When gallant Manstin returned the child to the eager arms of the mother there came a sudden terror into the eyes of both the Dakotas . 
They feared lest it was Double Face come in a new guise to torture them . 
The rabbit understood their fear and said I am Manstin , the kind hearted , Manstin , the noted huntsman . 
That night a strange thing happened . 
While the father and mother slept , Manstin took the wee baby . 
With his feet placed gently yet firmly upon the tiny toes of the little child , he drew upward by each small hand the sleeping child till he was a full grown man . 
Henceforth we are friends , to help each other , said Manstin , shaking a right hand in farewell . 
The earth is our common ear , to carry from its uttermost extremes one's slightest wish for the other ! Ho ! Be it so ! answered the newly made man . 
Upon leaving his friend , Manstin hurried away toward the North country whither he was bound for a long hunt . 
Suddenly he came upon the edge of a wide brook . 
His alert eye caught sight of a rawhide rope staked to the water's brink , which led away toward a small round hut in the distance . 
The ground was trodden into a deep groove beneath the loosely drawn rawhide rope . 
Hun he ! exclaimed Manstin , bending over the freshly made footprints in the moist bank of the brook . 
A man's footprints ! he said to himself . 
At once his eyes became fixed upon the solitary dwelling and hither he followed his curiosity , a real blind man's rope . 
Quietly he lifted the door flap and entered in . 
An old toothless grandfather , blind and shaky with age , sat upon the ground . 
He was not deaf however . 
He heard the entrance and felt the presence of some stranger . 
How , grandchild , he mumbled , for he was old enough to be grandparent to every living thing , how ! I cannot see you . 
Pray , speak your name ! Grandfather , I am Manstin , answered the rabbit , all the while looking with curious eyes about the wigwam . 
Grandfather , what is it so tightly packed in all these buckskin bags placed against the tent poles ? he asked . 
My grandchild , those are dried buffalo meat and venison . 
These are magic bags which never grow empty . 
I am blind and cannot go on a hunt . 
Hence a kind Maker has given me these magic bags of choicest foods . 
Then the old , bent man pulled at a rope which lay by his right hand . 
My grandchild , your eyes are your luxury ! you would be unhappy without them ! the old man replied . 
Grandfather , I would give you my two eyes for your place ! cried Manstin . 
How ! you have said it . 
Take out your eyes and give them to me . 
Henceforth you are at home here in my stead . 
For a short time it was a most pleasant pastime to smoke willow bark and to eat from the magic bags . 
Manstin grew thirsty , but there was no water in the small dwelling . 
Taking one of the rawhide ropes he started toward the brook to quench his thirst . 
He was young and unwilling to trudge slowly in the old man's footpath . 
He was full of glee , for it had been many long moons since he had tasted such good food . 
Thus he skipped confidently along jerking the old weather eaten rawhide spasmodically till all of a sudden it gave way and Manstin fell headlong into the water . 
En ! En ! he grunted kicking frantically amid stream . 
All along the slippery bank he vainly tried to climb , till at last he chanced upon the old stake and the deeply worn footpath . 
Exhausted and inwardly disgusted with his mishaps , he crawled more cautiously on all fours to his wigwam door . 
Dripping with his recent plunge he sat with chattering teeth within his unfired wigwam . 
The sun had set and the night air was chilly , but there was no fire wood in the dwelling . 
Hin ! murmured Manstin and bravely tried the other rope . 
I go for some fire wood ! he said , following the rawhide rope which led into the forest . 
Soon he stumbled upon thickly strewn dry willow sticks . 
Eagerly with both hands he gathered the wood into his outspread blanket . 
Manstin was naturally an energetic fellow . 
Then pausing a moment , he set his fan like ears to catch any sound of approaching footsteps . 
Not even a night bird twittered to help him out of his predicament . 
With a bold face , he made a start at random . 
He fell into some tangled wood where he was held fast . 
Manstin let go his bundle and began to lament having given away his two eyes . 
Scarcely had he spoken when the sound of voices was audible on the outer edge of the forest . 
Nearer and louder grew the voices one was the clear flute tones of a young brave and the other the tremulous squeaks of an old grandfather . 
It was Manstin's friend with the Earth Ear and the old grandfather . 
Here Manstin , take back your eyes , said the old man , I knew you would not be content in my stead , but I wanted you to learn your lesson . 
The old grandfather crept into his wigwam , which is often mistaken for a mere oak tree by little Indian girls and boys . 
Manstin , with his own bright eyes fitted into his head again , went on happily to hunt in the North country . 
As they were talking excitedly , waving their fists in violent gestures , a wind came and blew the Ashes away . 
Ho ! cried the others , he could not fight , this one ! The six went on running to make war more quickly . 
They descended a deep valley , the Fire going foremost until they came to a river . 
The Fire said Hsss tchu ! and was gone . 
Ho ! hooted the others , he could not fight , this one ! Therefore the five went on the more quickly to make war . 
They came to a great wood . 
While they were going through it , the Bladder was heard to sneer and to say , He ! you should rise above these , brothers . 
With these words he went upward among the tree tops and the thorn apple pricked him . 
He fell through the branches and was nothing ! You see this ! said the four , this one could not fight . 
Still the remaining warriors would not turn back . 
The four went boldly on to make war . 
The Grasshopper with his cousin , the Dragon Fly , went foremost . 
They reached a marshy place , and the mire was very deep . 
He would not be comforted , for he loved his cousin dearly . 
The more he grieved , the louder he cried , till his body shook with great violence . 
He blew his red swollen nose with a loud noise so that his head came off his slender neck , and he was fallen upon the grass . 
You see how it is , said the Fish , lashing his tail impatiently , these people were not warriors ! Come ! he said , let us go on to make war . 
Thus the Fish and the Turtle came to a large camp ground . 
With a peculiar omission of syllables , he said Shu . 
hi pi ! Wan ! what ? what ? clamored eager voices of men and women . 
Again the Fish said Shu . 
hi pi ! Everywhere stood young and old with a palm to an ear . 
Still no one guessed what the Fish had mumbled ! From the bewildered crowd witty old Iktomi came forward . 
He , listen ! he shouted , rubbing his mischievous palms together , for where there was any trouble brewing , he was always in the midst of it . 
This little strange man says , 'Zuya unhipi ! We come to make war ! Uun ! resented the people , suddenly stricken glum . 
Let us kill the silly pair ! They can do nothing ! They do not know the meaning of the phrase . 
Let us build a fire and boil them both ! If you put us on to boil , said the Fish , there will be trouble . 
Ho ho ! laughed the village folk . 
And so they made a fire . 
I have never been so angered ! said the Fish . 
The Turtle in a whispered reply said We shall die ! When a pair of strong hands lifted the Fish over the sputtering water , he put his mouth downward . 
He blew the water all over the people , so that many were burned and could not see . 
Screaming with pain , they ran away . 
Oh , what shall we do with these dreadful ones ? they said . 
Others exclaimed Let us carry them to the lake of muddy water and drown them ! Instantly they ran with them . 
They threw the Fish and the Turtle into the lake . 
Toward the center of the large lake the Turtle dived . 
E han ! whooped the Fish , this is where I live ! Oh , what have we done ! said the frightened people , this will be our undoing . 
Then a wise chief said Iya , the Eater , shall come and swallow the lake ! So one went running . 
He brought Iya , the Eater and Iya drank all day at the lake till his belly was like the earth . 
Then the Fish and the Turtle dived into the mud and Iya said They are not in me . 
Hearing this the people cried greatly . 
Iktomi wading in the lake had been swallowed like a gnat in the water . 
Within the great Iya he was looking skyward . 
So deep was the water in the Eater's stomach that the surface of the swallowed lake almost touched the sky . 
I will go that way , said Iktomi , looking at the concave within arm's reach . 
He struck his knife upward in the Eater's stomach , and the water falling out drowned those people of the village . 
Now when the great water fell into its own bed , the Fish and the Turtle came to the shore . 
They went home painted victors and loud voiced singers . 
