The Martin Luther King , Jr . 
Day , , Memorial Issue . 
Table of Contents Sojourner Truth , the Libyan Sibyl . 
Frederick Douglass An Appeal to Congress for Impartial Suffrage . 
Frederick Douglas The Negro Exodus . 
James B. Runnion My Escape from Slavery . 
Frederick Douglass The Goophered Grapevine . 
Charles W. Chesnutt Po' Sandy . 
Charles W. Chesnutt Dave's Neckliss . 
Charles W. Chesnutt The Awakening of the Negro . 
Booker T. Washington The Story of Uncle Tom's Cabin . 
Charles Dudley Warner Strivings of the Negro People . 
W. E. Burghardt Du Bois The Wife of his Youth . 
Charles W. Chesnutt The Bouquet . 
Charles W. Chesnutt The Case of the Negro . 
Booker T. Washington Hot Foot Hannibal . 
Charles W. Chesnutt A Negro Schoolmaster in the New South . 
W. E. Burghardt Du Bois The Capture of a Slaver . 
J. Taylor Wood Mr. Charles W. Chesnutt's Stories . 
W. D. Howells Paths of Hope for the Negro Practical Suggestions of a Southerner . 
Jerome Dowd Signs of Progress Among the Negroes . 
Booker T. Washington The March of Progress . 
Charles W. Chesnutt The Freedmen's Bureau . 
W. E. Burghardt Du Bois Of the Training of Black Men . 
W. E. Burghardt Du Bois The Fruits of Industrial Training . 
Booker T. Washington The Negro in the Regular Army . 
Oswald Garrison Villard Baxter's Procrustes . 
Charles W. Chesnutt The Heart of the Race Problem . 
Quincy Ewing Negro Suffrage in a Democracy . 
I had myself often remarked the name , but never met the individual . 
Knowing nothing of her but her singular name , I went down , prepared to make the interview short , as the pressure of many other engagements demanded . 
When I went into the room , a tall , spare form arose to meet me . 
I do not recollect ever to have been conversant with any one who had more of that silent and subtle power which we call personal presence than this woman . 
In the modern Spiritualistic phraseology , she would be described as having a strong sphere . 
Her tall form , as she rose up before me , is still vivid to my mind . 
She was dressed in some stout , grayish stuff , neat and clean , though dusty from travel . 
On her head , she wore a bright Madras handkerchief , arranged as a turban , after the manner of her race . 
Her whole air had at times a gloomy sort of drollery which impressed one strangely . 
So this is YOU , she said . 
Well , honey , de Lord bless ye ! I jes' thought I'd like to come an' have a look at ye . 
You's heerd o' me , I reckon ? she added . 
Yes , I think I have . 
You go about lecturing , do you not ? Yes , honey , that's what I do . 
The Lord has made me a sign unto this nation , an' I go round a'testifyin' , an' showin' on 'em their sins agin my people . 
She looked at him with an indulgent sadness , and then at me . 
Laws , Ma'am , HE don't know nothin' about it HE don't . 
She surveyed him soberly , without the slightest irritation . 
Well , you may bless the Lord you CAN laugh but I tell you , 't wa'n't no laughin' matter . 
By this time I thought her manner so original that it might be worth while to call down my friends and she seemed perfectly well pleased with the idea . 
An audience was what she wanted , it mattered not whether high or low , learned or ignorant . 
She had things to say , and was ready to say them at all times , and to any one . 
Beecher , Professor Allen , and two or three other clergymen , who , together with my husband and family , made a roomful . 
No princess could have received a drawing room with more composed dignity than Sojourner her audience . 
She stood among them , calm and erect , as one of her own native palm trees waving alone in the desert . 
I presented one after another to her , and at last said , Sojourner , this is Dr . 
He is a very celebrated preacher . 
IS he ? she said , offering her hand in a condescending manner , and looking down on his white head . 
Ye dear lamb , I'm glad to see ye ! De Lord bless ye ! I loves preachers . 
I'm a kind o' preacher myself . 
You are ? said Dr . 
Do you preach from the Bible ? No , honey , can't preach from de Bible , can't read a letter . 
When I preaches , I has jest one text to preach from , an' I always preaches from this one . 
MY text is , 'WHEN I FOUND JESUS . 
Well , you couldn't have a better one , said one of the ministers . 
I grew up pretty lively an' strong , an' could row a boat , or ride a horse , or work round , an' do 'most anything . 
At last I got sold away to a real hard massa an' missis . 
Oh , I tell you , they WAS hard ! 'Peared like I couldn't please 'em , nohow . 
Well , I shouldn't wonder ef you couldn't . 
Well , now , I tell you , I'll make a bargain with you . 
Ef you'll help me to git away from my massa an' missis , I'll agree to be good but ef you don't help me , I really don't think I can be . 
Then the Lord said to me , 'Git up two or three hours afore daylight , an' start off . 
An' says I , 'Thank 'ee , Lord ! that's a good thought . 
An' then I begun to think I didn't know nothin' where to go . 
So I kneeled down , and says I , 'Well , Lord , you've started me out , an' now please to show me where to go . 
Well , honey , I was kind o' skeered when they left me alone with that great white bed 'cause I never had been in a bed in my life . 
It never came into my mind they could mean me to sleep in it . 
An' so I jes' camped down under it , on the floor , an' then I slep' pretty well . 
In the mornin' , when they came in , they asked me ef I hadn't been asleep an' I said , 'Yes , I never slep' better . 
Well , ye see , honey , I stayed an' lived with 'em . 
Pretty well don't need no help an' I gin up prayin . 
An' I told him I did . 
So he said , ef I'd jes' git into the wagon with him , he'd carry me over . 
Jesus loved me ! I knowed it , I felt it . 
Jesus would love me always . 
I didn't dare tell nobody 't was a great secret . 
I won't let any one know . 
But , Sojourner , had you never been told about Jesus Christ ? No , honey . 
I hadn't heerd no preachin' , been to no meetin' . 
I'd kind o' heerd of Jesus , but thought he was like Gineral Lafayette , or some o' them . 
I started , 'cause he told about Jesus . 
'There is a holy city , A world of light above , Above the stairs and regions , Built by the God of Love . 
An Everlasting temple , And saints arrayed in white There serve their great Redeemer And dwell with him in light . 
And what shall be my journey , How long I'll stay below , Or what shall be my trials , Are not for me to know . 
In every day of trouble I'll raise my thoughts on high , I'll think of that bright temple And crowns above the sky . 
Well , den ye see , after a while , I thought I'd go back an' see de folks on de ole place . 
I tell you , I stretched up . 
I felt as tall as the world ! 'Missis , says I , 'I'LL HAVE MY SON BACK AGIN ! She laughed . 
'YOU will , you nigger ? How you goin' to do it ? You ha'n't got no money . 
'No , Missis , but GOD has , an' you'll see He'll help me ! an' I turned round an' went out . 
Oh , but I WAS angry to have her speak to me so haughty an' so scornful , as ef my chile wasn't worth anything . 
I said to God , 'O Lord , render unto her double ! It was a dreadful prayer , an' I didn't know how true it would come . 
Well , I talked with people , an' they said I must git the case before a grand jury . 
So I went into the town when they was holdin' a court , to see ef I could find any grand jury . 
So I carried it to the man all out , an' said , 'Take it all , only be sure an' git him . 
Well , you see , honey , I told you how I prayed the Lord to render unto her double . 
Then says I , 'O Lord , I didn't mean all that ! You took me up too quick . 
Well , I went in an' tended that poor critter all night . 
I wa'n't goin' to keep nothin' of Egypt on me , an' so I went to the Lord an' asked Him to give me a new name . 
And the Lord gave me Sojourner , because I was to travel up an' down the land , showin' the people their sins , an' bein' a sign unto them . 
Afterwards I told the Lord I wanted another name , 'cause everybody else had two names and the Lord gave me Truth , because I was to declare the truth to the people . 
I tells 'em about Jesus , an' I tells 'em about the sins of this people . 
A great many always comes to hear me an' they're right good to me , too , an' say they want to hear me agin . 
Sojourner stayed several days with us , a welcome guest . 
Sojourner , what do you think of Women's Rights ? Well , honey , I's ben to der meetins , an' harked a good deal . 
Dey wanted me for to speak . 
Says I , 'Sisters , I a'n't clear what you'd be after . 
An' I told 'em I had Bloomers enough when I was in bondage . 
Sojourner then proceeded to give her views of the relative capacity of the sexes , in her own way . 
S'pose a man's mind holds a quart , an' a woman's don't hold but a pint ef her pint is FULL , it's as good as his quart . 
In the truth thus set forth she seemed to have the most simple faith . 
Sojourner , said the Professor to her , one day , when he heard her singing , you seem to be very sure about heaven . 
Well , I be , she answered , triumphantly . 
There was at the time an invalid in the house , and Sojourner , on learning it , felt a mission to go and comfort her . 
One felt as if the dark , strange woman were quite able to take up the invalid in her bosom , and bear her as a lamb , both physically and spiritually . 
There was both power and sweetness in that great warm soul and that vigorous frame . 
At length , Sojourner , true to her name , departed . 
She had her mission elsewhere . 
Where now she is I know not but she left deep memories behind her . 
To these recollections of my own I will add one more anecdote , related by Wendell Phillips . 
He related a scene of which he was witness . 
It was at a crowded public meeting in Faneuil Hall , where Frederick Douglas was one of the chief speakers . 
It must come to blood they must fight for themselves , and redeem themselves , or it would never be done . 
Not another word she said or needed to say it was enough . 
One longs to know what such beings might have become , if suffered to unfold and expand under the kindly developing influences of education . 
I cannot but think that Sojourner with the same culture might have spoken words as eloquent and undying as those of the African Saint Augustine or Tertullian . 
Some years ago , when visiting Rome , I related Sojourner's history to Mr. Story at a breakfast at his house . 
A few days after , he told me that he had conceived the idea of a statue which he should call the Libyan Sibyl . 
Mr. Story requested me to come and repeat to him the history of Sojourner Truth , saying that the conception had never left him . 
I did so and a day or two after , he showed me the clay model of the Libyan Sibyl . 
I have never seen the marble statue but am told by those who have , that it was by far the most impressive work of art at the Exhibition . 
A notice of the two statues from the London Athenaeum must supply a description which I cannot give . 
The Sibilla Libica has crossed her knees , an action universally held amongst the ancients as indicative of reticence or secrecy , and of power to bind . 
Good artistic example might be quoted on both sides . 
crest , that bears the mystery of the Tetragrammaton upon its upturned front . 
Over her full bosom , mother of myriads as she was , hangs the same symbol . 
Her face has a Nubian cast , her hair wavy and plaited , as is meet . 
We hope to see the day when copies both of the Cleopatra and the Libyan Sibyl shall adorn the Capitol at Washington . 
Seldom has any legislative body been the subject of a solicitude more intense , or of aspirations more sincere and ardent . 
There are the best of reasons for this profound interest . 
Questions of vast moment , left undecided by the last session of Congress , must be manfully grappled with by this . 
No political skirmishing will avail . 
The last session really did nothing which can be considered final as to these questions . 
To change the character of the government at this point is neither possible nor desirable . 
All that is necessary to be done is to make the government consistent with itself , and render the rights of the States compatible with the sacred rights of human nature . 
The arm of the Federal government is long , but it is far too short to protect the rights of individuals in the interior of distant States . 
They must have the power to protect themselves , or they will go unprotected , spite of all the laws the Federal government can put upon the national statute book . 
Slavery , like all other great systems of wrong , founded in the depths of human selfishness , and existing for ages , has not neglected its own conservation . 
It has steadily exerted an influence upon all around it favorable to its own continuance . 
And to day it is so strong that it could exist , not only without law , but even against law . 
This , of course , cannot be done , and ought not even if it could . 
One of the invaluable compensations of the late Rebellion is the highly instructive disclosure it made of the true source of danger to republican government . 
What was theory before the war has been made fact by the war . 
There is cause to be thankful even for rebellion . 
It is an impressive teacher , though a stern and terrible one . 
In both characters it has come to us , and it was perhaps needed in both . 
It is an instructor never a day before its time , for it comes only when all other means of progress and enlightenment have failed . 
The yawning seam and corroded bolt conceal their defects from the mariner until the storm calls all hands to the pumps . 
It is no disparagement to truth , that it can only prevail where reason prevails . 
War begins where reason ends . 
The thing worse than rebellion is the thing that causes rebellion . 
What that thing is , we have been taught to our cost . 
It remains now to be seen whether we have the needed courage to have that cause entirely removed from the Republic . 
At any rate , to this grand work of national regeneration and entire purification Congress must now address Itself , with full purpose that the work shall this time be thoroughly done . 
The deadly upas , root and branch , leaf and fibre , body and sap , must be utterly destroyed . 
The country is evidently not in a condition to listen patiently to pleas for postponement , however plausible , nor will it permit the responsibility to be shifted to other shoulders . 
Authority and power are here commensurate with the duty imposed . 
There are no cloud flung shadows to obscure the way . 
Truth shines with brighter light and intenser heat at every moment , and a country torn and rent and bleeding implores relief from its distress and agony . 
If time was at first needed , Congress has now had time . 
All the requisite materials from which to form an intelligent judgment are now before it . 
For the omissions of the last session , some excuses may be allowed . 
A treacherous President stood in the way and it can be easily seen how reluctant good men might be to admit an apostasy which involved so much of baseness and ingratitude . 
It was natural that they should seek to save him by bending to him even when he leaned to the side of error . 
But all is changed now . 
Congress knows now that it must go on without his aid , and even against his machinations . 
The advantage of the present session over the last is immense . 
Where that investigated , this has the facts . 
Where that walked by faith , this may walk by sight . 
The members go to Washington fresh from the inspiring presence of the people . 
Radicalism , so far from being odious , is not the popular passport to power . 
The men most bitterly charged with it go to Congress with the largest majorities , while the timid and doubtful are sent by lean majorities , or else left at home . 
The strange controversy between the President and the Congress , at one time so threatening , is disposed of by the people . 
The high reconstructive powers which he so confidently , ostentatiously , and haughtily claimed , have been disallowed , denounced , and utterly repudiated while those claimed by Congress have been confirmed . 
Of the spirit and magnitude of the canvass nothing need be said . 
The appeal was to the people , and the verdict was worthy of the tribunal . 
No vindication could be more complete , no condemnation could be more absolute and humiliating . 
Unless reopened by the sword , as recklessly threatened in some circles , this question is now closed for all time . 
Their State governments were overthrown , and the lives and property of the leaders of the Rebellion were forfeited . 
In reconstructing the institutions of these shattered and overthrown States , Congress should begin with a clean slate , and make clean work of it . 
Let there be no hesitation . 
It is not , however , within the scope of this paper to point out the precise steps to be taken , and the means to be employed . 
The people are less concerned about these than the grand end to be attained . 
This horrible business they require shall cease . 
No Chinese wall can now be tolerated . 
The South must be opened to the light of law and liberty , and this session of Congress is relied upon to accomplish this important work . 
This great measure is sought as earnestly by loyal white men as by loyal blacks , and is needed alike by both . 
Let sound political prescience but take the place of an unreasoning prejudice , and this will be done . 
The policy that emancipated and armed the negro now seen to have been wise and proper by the dullest was not certainly more sternly demanded than is now the policy of enfranchisement . 
If with the negro was success in war , and without him failure , so in peace it will be found that the nation must fall or flourish with the negro . 
Fortunately , the Constitution of the United States knows no distinction between citizens on account of color . 
Neither does it know any difference between a citizen of a State and a citizen of the United States . 
Citizenship evidently includes all the rights of citizens , whether State or national . 
If the Constitution knows none , it is clearly no part of the duty of a Republican Congress now to institute one . 
It is supported by reasons as broad as the nature of man , and as numerous as the wants of society . 
Man is the only government making animal in the world . 
His right to a participation in the production and operation of government is an inference from his nature , as direct and self evident as is his right to acquire property or education . 
The fundamental and unanswerable argument in favor of the enfranchisement of the negro is found in the undisputed fact of his manhood . 
He is a man , and by every fact and argument by which any man can sustain his right to vote , the negro can sustain his right equally . 
It is plain that , if the right belongs to any , it belongs to all . 
The doctrine that some men have no rights that others are bound to respect , is a doctrine which we must banish as we have banished slavery , from which it emanated . 
If black men have no rights in the eyes of white men , of course the whites can have none in the eyes of the blacks . 
The result is a war of races , and the annihilation of all proper human relations . 
But suffrage for the negro , while easily sustained upon abstract principles , demands consideration upon what are recognized as the urgent necessities of the case . 
It is a measure of relief , a shield to break the force of a blow already descending with violence , and render it harmless . 
The work of destruction has already been set in motion all over the South . 
but rather of statement and appeal . 
the negroes are evidently a permanent part of the American population . 
They are too numerous and useful to be colonized , and too enduring and self perpetuating to disappear by natural causes . 
Here they are , four millions of them , and , for weal or for woe , here they must remain . 
What O'Connell said of the history of Ireland may with greater truth be said of the negro's . 
It may be traced like a wounded man through a crowd , by the blood . 
They now stand before Congress and the country , not complaining of the past , but simply asking for a better future . 
But no such appeal shall be relied on here . 
Hardships , services , sufferings , and sacrifices are all waived . 
It is true that they came to the relief of the country at the hour of its extremest need . 
It is true that , in many of the rebellious States , they were almost the only reliable friends the nation had throughout the whole tremendous war . 
All this and more is true of these loyal negroes . 
Many daring exploits will be told to their credit . 
Impartial history will paint them as men who deserved well of their country . 
But upon none of these things is reliance placed . 
These facts speak to the better dispositions of the human heart but they seem of little weight with the opponents of impartial suffrage . 
It is true that a strong plea for equal suffrage might be addressed to the national sense of honor . 
Something , too , might be said of national gratitude . 
A nation might well hesitate before the temptation to betray its allies . 
There is something immeasurably mean , to say nothing of the cruelty , in placing the loyal negroes of the South under the political power of their Rebel masters . 
But of this let nothing be said in this place . 
For in respect to this grand measure it is the good fortune of the negro that enlightened selfishness , not less than justice , fights on his side . 
National interest and national duty , if elsewhere separated , are firmly united here . 
Strong as we are , we need the energy that slumbers in the black man's arm to make us stronger . 
We want no longer any heavy footed , melancholy service from the negro . 
We want the cheerful activity of the quickened manhood of these sable millions . 
Nor can we afford to endure the moral blight which the existence of a degraded and hated class must necessarily inflict upon any people among whom such a class may exist . 
If these bless them , they are blest indeed but if these blast them , they are blasted indeed . 
Give the negro the elective franchise , and you give him at once a powerful motive for all noble exertion , and make him a man among men . 
A character is demanded of him , and here as elsewhere demand favors supply . 
It is nothing against this reasoning that all men who vote are not good men or good citizens . 
Masses of men can take care of themselves . 
Besides , the disabilities imposed upon all are necessarily without that bitter and stinging element of invidiousness which attaches to disfranchisement in a republic . 
What is common to all works no special sense of degradation to any . 
As a nation , we cannot afford to have amongst us either this indifference and stupidity , or that burning sense of wrong . 
These sable millions are too powerful to be allowed to remain either indifferent or discontented . 
Enfranchise them , and they become self respecting and country loving citizens . 
Disfranchise them , and the mark of Cain is set upon them less mercifully than upon the first murderer , for no man was to hurt him . 
History is said to repeat itself , and , if so , having wanted the negro once , we may want him again . 
Disguise it as we may , we are still a divided nation . 
The Rebel States have still an anti national policy . 
There is that , all over the South , which frightens Yankee industry , capital , and skill from its borders . 
We have crushed the Rebellion , but not its hopes or its malign purposes . 
The South fought for perfect and permanent control over the Southern laborer . 
It was a war of the rich against the poor . 
They who waged it had no objection to the government , while they could use it as a means of confirming their power over the laborer . 
Though the battle is for the present lost , the hope of gaining this object still exists , and pervades the whole South with a feverish excitement . 
We have thus far only gained a Union without unity , marriage without love , victory without peace . 
There is but one safe and constitutional way to banish that mischievous hope from the South , and that is by lifting the laborer beyond the unfriendly political designs of his former master . 
Give the negro the elective franchise , and you at once destroy the purely sectional policy , and wheel the Southern States into line with national interests and national objects . 
The last and shrewdest turn of Southern politics is a recognition of the necessity of getting into Congress immediately , and at any price . 
The South will comply with any conditions but suffrage for the negro . 
The proposition is as modest as that made on the mountain All these things will I give unto thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me . 
Under the potent shield of State Rights , the game would be in their own hands . 
King Cotton is deposed , but only deposed , and is ready to day to reassert all his ancient pretensions upon the first favorable opportunity . 
Foreign countries abound with his agents . 
They are able , vigilant , devoted . 
The young men of the South burn with the desire to regain what they call the lost cause the women are noisily malignant towards the Federal government . 
In fact , all the elements of treason and rebellion are there under the thinnest disguise which necessity can impose . 
What , then , is the work before Congress ? It is to save the people of the South from themselves , and the nation from detriment on their account . 
Congress must supplant the evident sectional tendencies of the South by national dispositions and tendencies . 
It must cause national ideas and objects to take the lead and control the politics of those States . 
It must cease to recognize the old slave masters as the only competent persons to rule the South . 
The new wine must be put into new bottles . 
The lamb may not be trusted with the wolf . 
Loyalty is hardly safe with traitors . 
Statesmen of America ! beware what you do . 
The ploughshare of rebellion has gone through the land beam deep . 
The soil is in readiness , and the seed time has come . 
Nations , not less than individuals , reap as they sow . 
The dreadful calamities of the past few years came not by accident , nor unbidden , from the ground . 
You shudder to day at the harvest of blood sown in the spring time of the Republic by your patriot fathers . 
The principle of slavery , which they tolerated under the erroneous impression that it would soon die out , became at last the dominant principle and power at the South . 
It early mastered the Constitution , became superior to the Union , and enthroned itself above the law . 
This evil principle again seeks admission into our body politic . 
It comes now in shape of a denial of political rights to four million loyal colored people . 
The South does not now ask for slavery . 
It only asks for a large degraded caste , which shall have no political rights . 
Statesmen , beware what you do . 
The destiny of unborn and unnumbered generations is in your hands . 
The emigration of blacks to Kansas began early in the spring of this year . 
For a time there was a stampede from two or three of the river parishes in Louisiana and as many counties opposite in Mississippi . 
had left their cabins before the rush could be stayed or the excitement lulled . 
This is the negro version of the trouble , which is elaborated on occasion into a harrowing story of oppression and plunder . 
These are the two extremes of opinion at the South . 
There is a political tinge in almost everything in the extreme Southern States . 
The fact seems to be that the emigration movement among the blacks was spontaneous to the extent that they were ready and anxious to go . 
Kansas was naturally the favorite goal of the negro emigre , for it was associated in his mind with the names of Jim Lane and John Brown , which are hallowed to him . 
The timid learned that they could escape what they have come to regard as a second bondage , and they flocked together to gain the moral support which comes from numbers . 
of the peculiar plantation system of slavery days . 
The cotton lands at the South are owned now , as they were before the war , in large tracts . 
But it was found impracticable to maintain the wage system in the cotton districts . 
The negroes themselves fought against it , because it reminded them too much of the slave gang , driven out at daybreak and home at sundown . 
Then the system of working on shares was tried . 
This was reasonably fair , and the negro laborers were satisfied as long as it lasted . 
The owners of the land , under this system , would furnish the indispensable mule and the farming implements , and take one half the product . 
The planters themselves relinquished this system . 
Now the renting system is almost universal . 
The land owners usually claim that they make no money even at these exorbitant figures . 
The credit system , which is as universal as the renting system , is even more illogical and oppressive . 
upon the pledge of their growing crop . 
The negro's necessities have developed an offensive race , called merchants by courtesy , who keep supply stores at the cross roads and steamboat landings , and live upon extortion . 
These people would be called sharks , harpies , and vampires in any Northwestern agricultural community , and they would not survive more than one season . 
There is no concealment about the extortion every store keeper has his cash price and his credit price , and in nearly all cases the latter is one hundred per cent . 
But the necessities of the planter , if not his greed , often betray him into plundering the negro . 
The planter himself is generally a victim to usury . 
He still draws on the city factor to the extent of ten dollars a bale upon his estimated crop . 
He pays this factor two and one half per cent . 
commission for the advance , eight per cent . 
interest for the money , two and one half per cent . 
more for disposing of the crop when consigned to him , and sometimes still another commission for the purchase of the supplies . 
The planter who furnishes his tenants with supplies on credit is usually paying an interest of fifteen to eighteen per cent . 
But whether the negro deals with the merchant or the land owner , his extravagance almost invariably exhausts his credit , even if it be large . 
The negro is a sensuous creature , and luxurious in his way . 
The land owner's rent and the merchant's advances are both secured by a chattel mortgage on the tenant's personal property , and by a pledge of the growing crop . 
It is easy to understand why the negro rarely gets ahead in the world . 
This mortgaging of future services , which is practically what a pledge of the growing crop amounts to , is in the nature of bondage . 
And , though the negro is the loser , the white man is not often the gainer , from this false plantation and mercantile system . 
Political oppression has contributed largely to the discontent which is the prime cause of the exodus . 
Bulldozing is the term by which all forms of this oppression are known . 
For the rest , the evidences of political oppression are abundant and convincing . 
The bulldozers as a class are more impecunious and irresponsible than the negroes , and , unlike the negroes , they will not work . 
No one who is at all familiar with the freedman can doubt that the abridgment of his political rights has been one of the main causes of the exodus . 
The women , though free from personal assaults , suffer from the terrorism that prevails in certain districts as much as the men . 
We might as well starve or freeze to death in Kansas , they say , as to be shot gunned here . 
If they talk to you in confidence , they declare that the ruling purpose is to escape from the slaughter pens of the South . 
Political persecution , and not the extortion they suffer , is the refrain of all the speakers at negro meetings that are held in encouragement and aid of the emigration . 
Much of the intimidation of the blacks has been tolerated , if not suggested , by a fear of negro uprisings . 
The apprehension is a legacy from the days of slavery , and is more unreasonable now than it was then but still it exists . 
This is not an excuse , but an explanation . 
The negro may be lazy it seems impossible to be otherwise in the Southern climate . 
The negro , as a rule , has no ambition to become a land owner he prefers to invest his surplus money , when he has any , in personal and movable property . 
These are some of the faults and misfortunes on the part of the blacks which enter into the race troubles . 
Had such a course been taken , there would not have been the fear of reenslavement , which actually prevails to a considerable extent among the negroes . 
There is danger that the Southern whites will , as a rule , misinterpret the meaning of the exodus . 
Many are inclined to underrate its importance , and those who appreciate its significance are apt to look for temporary and superficial remedies . 
Had the convention adopted some definite plan of action , such as ex Governor Foote , of Mississippi , submitted , its session might not have been in vain . 
It is short sighted for the Southern people to make mere temporary concessions , such as have been made in some cases this year , for that course would establish an annual strike . 
Education will be the most useful agent to employ in the permanent harmonizing of the two races , and the redemption of both from the faults and follies which constitute their troubles . 
The blacks need the education to protect them from designing white men the whites need it to teach them that their own interests will be best served by abandoning bulldozing of all kinds . 
They can be secured only through the active and earnest efforts of the whites . 
The blacks will be found responsive . 
The second reason was , if possible , still more binding to silence the publication of details would certainly have put in peril the persons and property of those who assisted . 
Murder itself was not more sternly and certainly punished in the State of Maryland than that of aiding and abetting the escape of a slave . 
Many colored men , for no other crime than that of giving aid to a fugitive slave , have , like Charles T. Torrey , perished in prison . 
The abolition of slavery in my native State and throughout the country , and the lapse of time , render the caution hitherto observed no longer necessary . 
I shall now , however , cease to avail myself of this formula , and , as far as I can , endeavor to satisfy this very natural curiosity . 
My success was due to address rather than courage , to good luck rather than bravery . 
My means of escape were provided for me by the very men who were making laws to hold and bind me more securely in slavery . 
It was the custom in the State of Maryland to require the free colored people to have what were called free papers . 
These instruments they were required to renew very often , and by charging a fee for this writing , considerable sums from time to time were collected by the State . 
This device in some measure defeated itself since more than one man could be found to answer the same general description . 
The operation was a hazardous one for the lender as well as for the borrower . 
It was , therefore , an act of supreme trust on the part of a freeman of color thus to put in jeopardy his own liberty that another might be free . 
It was , however , not unfrequently bravely done , and was seldom discovered . 
I was not so fortunate as to resemble any of my free acquaintances sufficiently to answer the description of their papers . 
The instrument had at its head the American eagle , which gave it the appearance at once of an authorized document . 
This protection , when in my hands , did not describe its bearer very accurately . 
Indeed , it called for a man much darker than myself , and close examination of it would have caused my arrest at the start . 
Had I gone into the station and offered to purchase a ticket , I should have been instantly and carefully examined , and undoubtedly arrested . 
One element in my favor was the kind feeling which prevailed in Baltimore and other sea ports at the time , toward those who go down to the sea in ships . 
Free trade and sailors' rights just then expressed the sentiment of the country . 
In my clothing I was rigged out in sailor style . 
I had on a red shirt and a tarpaulin hat , and a black cravat tied in sailor fashion carelessly and loosely about my neck . 
I was well on the way to Havre de Grace before the conductor came into the negro car to collect tickets and examine the papers of his black passengers . 
This was a critical moment in the drama . 
My whole future depended upon the decision of this conductor . 
Agitated though I was while this ceremony was proceeding , still , externally , at least , I was apparently calm and self possessed . 
He went on with his duty examining several colored passengers before reaching me . 
He was somewhat harsh in tome and peremptory in manner until he reached me , when , strange enough , and to my surprise and relief , his whole manner changed . 
With this I drew from my deep sailor's pocket my seaman's protection , as before described . 
The merest glance at the paper satisfied him , and he took my fare and went on about his business . 
This moment of time was one of the most anxious I ever experienced . 
Though I was not a murderer fleeing from justice , I felt perhaps quite as miserable as such a criminal . 
The train was moving at a very high rate of speed for that epoch of railroad travel , but to my anxious mind it was moving far too slowly . 
Minutes were hours , and hours were days during this part of my flight . 
The border lines between slavery and freedom were the dangerous ones for the fugitives . 
I got away from my old and inconvenient acquaintance as soon as I could decently do so , and went to another part of the boat . 
Once across the river , I encountered a new danger . 
Only a few days before , I had been at work on a revenue cutter , in Mr. Price's ship yard in Baltimore , under the care of Captain McGowan . 
Fortunately , in the hurry of the moment , he did not see me and the trains soon passed each other on their respective ways . 
But this was not my only hair breadth escape . 
I really believe he knew me , but had no heart to betray me . 
At any rate , he saw me escaping and held his peace . 
The last point of imminent danger , and the one I dreaded most , was Wilmington . 
Here we left the train and took the steam boat for Philadelphia . 
In making the change here I again apprehended arrest , but no one disturbed me , and I was soon on the broad and beautiful Delaware , speeding away to the Quaker City . 
On reaching Philadelphia in the afternoon , I inquired of a colored man how I could get on to New York . 
He directed me to the William street depot , and thither I went , taking the train that night . 
I reached New York Tuesday morning , having completed the journey in less than twenty four hours . 
My free life began on the third of September , . 
Though dazzled with the wonders which met me on every hand , my thoughts could not be much withdrawn from my strange situation . 
For the moment , the dreams of my youth and the hopes of my manhood were completely fulfilled . 
The bonds that had held me to old master were broken . 
No man now had a right to call me his slave or assert mastery over me . 
I was in the rough and tumble of an outdoor world , to take my chance with the rest of its busy number . 
I have often been asked how I felt when first I found myself on free soil . 
There is scarcely anything in my experience about which I could not give a more satisfactory answer . 
A new world had opened upon me . 
If life is more than breath and the quick round of blood , I lived more in that one day than in a year of my slave life . 
It was a time of joyous excitement which words can but tamely describe . 
In a letter written to a friend soon after reaching New York , I said I felt as one might feel upon escape from a den of hungry lions . 
Anguish and grief , like darkness and rain , may be depicted but gladness and joy , like the rainbow , defy the skill of pen or pencil . 
This contest was now ended my chains were broken , and the victory brought me unspeakable joy . 
But my gladness was short lived , for I was not yet out of the reach and power of the slave holders . 
I soon found that New York was not quite so free or so safe a refuge as I had supposed , and a sense of loneliness and insecurity again oppressed me most sadly . 
I chanced to meet on the street , a few hours after my landing , a fugitive slave whom I had once known well in slavery . 
The information received from him alarmed me . 
The fugitive in question was known in Baltimore as Allender's Jake , but in New York he wore the more respectable name of William Dixon . 
Jake , in law , was the property of Doctor Allender , and Tolly Allender , the son of the doctor , had once made an effort to recapture MR . 
DIXON , but had failed for want of evidence to support his claim . 
Jake told me the circumstances of this attempt , and how narrowly he escaped being sent back to slavery and torture . 
This picture , given by poor Jake , of New York , was a damper to my enthusiasm . 
Every door seemed closed against me . 
I was in the midst of an ocean of my fellow men , and yet a perfect stranger to every one . 
In such an extremity , a man had something besides his new born freedom to think of . 
As he approached me , I ventured a remark to him which at once enlisted his interest in me . 
have finished their work on earth . 
Once in the hands of these brave and wise men , I felt comparatively safe . 
She was a free woman , and came at once on getting the good news of my safety . 
We were married by Rev . 
J. W. C. Pennington , then a well known and respected Presbyterian minister . 
I had no money with which to pay the marriage fee , but he seemed well pleased with our thanks . 
Learning that my trade was that of a calker , he promptly decided that the best place for me was in New Bedford , Mass . 
He told me that many ships for whaling voyages were fitted out there , and that I might there find work at my trade and make a good living . 
They were compelled , whatever the weather might be , whether cold or hot , wet or dry , to spend the night on deck . 
Unjust as this regulation was , it did not trouble us much we had fared much harder before . 
We arrived at Newport the next morning , and soon after an old fashioned stage coach , with New Bedford in large yellow letters on its sides , came down to the wharf . 
I had not money enough to pay our fare , and stood hesitating what to do . 
I never obeyed an order with more alacrity , and we were soon on our way to our new home . 
When we reached Stone Bridge the passengers alighted for breakfast , and paid their fares to the driver . 
We took no breakfast , and , when asked for our fares , I told the driver I would make it right with him when we reached New Bedford . 
I expected some objection to this on his part , but he made none . 
Mr. and Mrs. Nathan Johnson reached a good old age , and now rest from their labors . 
I am under many grateful obligations to them . 
They not only took me in when a stranger and fed me when hungry , but taught me how to make an honest living . 
Thus , in a fortnight after my flight from Maryland , I was safe in New Bedford , a citizen of the grand old commonwealth of Massachusetts . 
The name given me by my dear mother was no less pretentious and long than Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey . 
I had , however , while living in Maryland , dispensed with the Augustus Washington , and retained only Frederick Bailey . 
Nathan Johnson , mine host , placed great emphasis upon this necessity , and wished me to allow him to select a name for me . 
I consented , and he called me by my present name the one by which I have been known for three and forty years Frederick Douglass . 
Mr. Johnson had just been reading the Lady of the Lake , and so pleased was he with its great character that he wished me to bear his name . 
Sure am I that , if any slave catcher had entered his domicile with a view to my recapture , Johnson would have shown himself like him of the stalwart hand . 
The reader may be surprised at the impressions I had in some way conceived of the social and material condition of the people at the North . 
I had no proper idea of the wealth , refinement , enterprise , and high civilization of this section of the country . 
My Columbian Orator , almost my only book , had done nothing to enlighten me concerning Northern society . 
I had been taught that slavery was the bottom fact of all wealth . 
With this foundation idea , I came naturally to the conclusion that poverty must be the general condition of the people of the free States . 
There , too , the black man's children attended the public schools with the white man's children , and apparently without objection from any quarter . 
The fifth day after my arrival , I put on the clothes of a common laborer , and went upon the wharves in search of work . 
On my way down Union street I saw a large pile of coal in front of the house of Rev . 
Ephraim Peabody , the Unitarian minister . 
I went to the kitchen door and asked the privilege of bringing in and putting away this coal . 
What will you charge ? said the lady . 
I will leave that to you , madam . 
You may put it away , she said . 
I was not long in accomplishing the job , when the dear lady put into my hand TWO SILVER HALF DOLLARS . 
My next job was stowing a sloop at Uncle Gid . 
Howland's wharf with a cargo of oil for New York . 
I was not only a freeman , but a free working man , and no master stood ready at the end of the week to seize my hard earnings . 
The season was growing late and work was plenty . 
Ships were being fitted out for whaling , and much wood was used in storing them . 
The sawing this wood was considered a good job . 
I got a saw and buck , and went at it . 
When I went into a store to buy a cord with which to brace up my saw in the frame , I asked for a fip's worth of cord . 
The man behind the counter looked rather sharply at me , and said with equal sharpness , You don't belong about here . 
I was alarmed , and thought I had betrayed myself . 
A fip in Maryland was six and a quarter cents , called fourpence in Massachusetts . 
But no harm came from the fi'penny bit blunder , and I confidently and cheerfully went to work with my saw and buck . 
Notwithstanding the just and humane sentiment of New Bedford three and forty years ago , the place was not entirely free from race and color prejudice . 
The good influence of the Roaches , Rodmans , Arnolds , Grinnells , and Robesons did not pervade all classes of its people . 
The test of the real civilization of the community came when I applied for work at my trade , and then my repulse was emphatic and decisive . 
I had some skill in both branches , and applied to Mr. French for work . 
He , generous man that he was , told me he would employ me , and I might go at once to the vessel . 
This uncivil , inhuman , and selfish treatment was not so shocking and scandalous in my eyes at the time as it now appears to me . 
Slavery had inured me to hardships that made ordinary trouble sit lightly upon me . 
Could I have worked at my trade I could have earned two dollars a day , but as a common laborer I received but one dollar . 
Becoming satisfied that I could not rely on my trade in New Bedford to give me a living , I prepared myself to do any kind of work that came to hand . 
I sawed wood , shoveled coal , dug cellars , moved rubbish from back yards , worked on the wharves , loaded and unloaded vessels , and scoured their cabins . 
I afterward got steady work at the brass foundry owned by Mr. Richmond . 
My duty here was to blow the bellows , swing the crane , and empty the flasks in which castings were made and at times this was hot and heavy work . 
The articles produced here were mostly for ship work , and in the busy season the foundry was in operation night and day . 
I have often worked two nights and every working day of the week . 
My foreman , Mr. Cobb , was a good man , and more than once protected me from abuse that one or more of the hands was disposed to throw upon me . 
While in this situation I had little time for mental improvement . 
I certainly saw nothing in the conduct of those around to inspire me with such interest they were all devoted exclusively to what their hands found to do . 
The bellows which I worked by main strength was , after I left , moved by a steam engine . 
I was engaged in grape culture in northern Ohio , and decided to look for a locality suitable for carrying on the same business in some Southern State . 
A cordial invitation to visit him while I looked into the matter was accepted . 
We found the weather delightful at that season , the end of the summer , and were most hospitably entertained . 
Our host placed a horse and buggy at our disposal , and himself acted as guide until I got somewhat familiar with the country . 
I went several times to look at a place which I thought might suit me . 
It had been at one time a thriving plantation , but shiftless cultivation had well night exhausted the soil . 
There had been a vineyard of some extent on the place , but it had not been attended to since the war , and had fallen into utter neglect . 
One day I went over with my wife , to show her the place . 
We drove between the decayed gate posts the gate itself had long since disappeared and up the straight , sandy lane to the open space where a dwelling house had once stood . 
But the house had fallen a victim to the fortunes of war , and nothing remained of it except the brick pillars upon which the sills had rested . 
One end of the log was already occupied by a venerable looking colored man . 
He respectfully rose as we approached , and was moving away , when I begged him to keep his seat . 
Don't let us disturb you , I said . 
There's plenty of room for us all . 
He resumed his seat with somewhat of embarrassment . 
Do you live around here ? I asked , anxious to put him at his ease . 
I lives des ober yander , behine de nex' san' hill , on de Lumberton plank road . 
Do you know anything about the time when this vineyard was cultivated ? Lawd bless yer , suh , I knows all about it . 
Dey ain' na'er a man in dis settlement w'at won' tell yer ole Julius McAdoo 'uz bawn an' raise' on dis yer same plantation . 
Why not ? I asked . 
Is what ? I asked , not grasping the meaning of this unfamiliar word . 
Is goophered , cunju'd , bewitch' . 
How do you know it is bewitched ? I asked . 
I wouldn' spec' fer you ter b'lieve me 'less you know all 'bout de fac's . 
We assured him that we would be glad to hear how it all happened , and he began to tell us . 
At first the current of his memory or imagination seemed somewhat sluggish but as his embarrassment wore off , his language flowed more freely , and the story acquired perspective and coherence . 
Ole Mars Dugal' McAdoo bought dis place long many years befo' de wah , en I 'member well w'en he sot out all dis yer part er de plantation in scuppernon's . 
De vimes growed monst'us fas' , en Mars Dugal' made a thousan' gallon er scuppernon' wine eve'y year . 
Now , ef dey's an'thing a nigger lub , nex' ter 'possum , en chick'n , en watermillyums , it's scuppernon's . 
Dey ain' nuffin dat kin stan' up side'n de scuppernon' fer sweetness sugar ain't a suckumstance ter scuppernon' . 
Dey wuz a sight er niggers in de naberhood er de vimya'd . 
So atter a w'ile Mars Dugal' begin ter miss his scuppernon's . 
Co'se he 'cuse' de niggers er it , but dey all 'nied it ter de las' . 
But somehow er nudder dey couldn' nebber ketch none er de niggers . 
I dunner how it happen , but it happen des like I tell yer , en de grapes kep' on a goin des de same . 
But bimeby ole Mars Dugal' fix' up a plan ter stop it . 
Dey 'uz a cunjuh 'ooman livin' down mongs' de free niggers on de Wim'l'ton Road , en all de darkies fum Rockfish ter Beaver Crick wuz feared uv her . 
Mars Dugal' hearn 'bout Aun' Peggy's doin's , en begun ter 'flect whe'r er no he couldn' git her ter he'p him keep de niggers off'n de grapevimes . 
He tuk de basket in , en had a long talk wid Aun' Peggy . 
De nex' day Aun' Peggy come up ter de vimya'd . 
De niggers seed her slippin' 'roun' , en dey soon foun' out what she 'uz doin' dere . 
Mars Dugal' had hi'ed her ter goopher de grapevimes . 
Nobody didn' notice it at de time , but dat night , on de way home , de gemman's hoss runned away en kill' de coachman . 
Den one er de nigger chilluns runned away fum de quarters one day , en got in de scuppernon's , en died de nex' week . 
W'ite folks say he die' er de fevuh , but de niggers knowed it wuz de goopher . 
So you k'n be sho de darkies didn' hab much ter do wid dem scuppernon' vimes . 
So I 'low ez he paid Aun' Peggy ten dollars fer to goopher de grapevimes . 
He fotch de noo nigger home wid 'im . 
He wuz er ole nigger , er de color er a gingy cake , en ball ez a hoss apple on de top er his head . 
He wuz a peart ole nigger , do' , en could do a big day's wuk . 
Co'se he smell de grapes en see de vimes , an atter dahk de fus' thing he done wuz ter slip off ter de grapevimes 'dout sayin' nuffin ter nobody . 
Nex' mawnin' he tole some er de niggers 'bout de fine bait er scuppernon' he et de night befo' . 
W'en dey tole 'im 'bout de goopher on de grapevimes , he 'uz dat tarrified dat he turn pale , en look des like he gwine ter die right in his tracks . 
Sho nuff , it rain de nex' day , en de oberseah went ober ter Aun' Peggy's wid Henry . 
So she fotch out er bottle wid some cunjuh medicine in it , en po'd some out in a go'd fer Henry ter drink . 
He manage ter git it down he say it tas'e like whiskey wid sump'n bitter in it . 
Nex' spring , w'en de sap commence' ter rise in de scuppernon' vime , Henry tuk a ham one night . 
Whar'd he git de ham ? I doan know dey wa'nt no hams on de plantation 'cep'n' w'at 'uz in de smoke house , but I never see Henry 'bout de smoke house . 
En bein' ez he fotch her de ham , she fix' it so he kin eat all de scuppernon' he want . 
So Henry 'n'int his head wid de sap out'n de big grapevime des ha'f way 'twix' de quarters en de big house , en de goopher nebber wuk agin him dat summer . 
But de beatenes' thing you eber see happen ter Henry . 
So he gin it up , en tried ter keep de grapes down by havin' his ha'r cut sho't . 
A small card , resembling a curry comb in construction , and used by negroes in the rural districts instead of a comb . 
But dat wa'nt de quares' thing 'bout de goopher . 
When Henry come ter de plantation , he wuz gittin' a little ole an stiff in de j'ints . 
But de mos' cur'ouses' thing happen' in de fall , when de sap begin ter go down in de grapevimes . 
Co'se de man w'at bought Henry didn' know nuffin 'bout de goopher , en Mars Dugal' didn' see no 'casion fer ter tell 'im . 
He sent fer a mighty fine doctor , but de med'cine didn' 'pear ter do no good de goopher had a good holt . 
Henry tole de doctor 'bout de goopher , but de doctor des laff at 'im . 
One day in de winter Mars Dugal' went ter town , en wuz santerin' 'long de Main Street , when who should he meet but Henry's noo marster . 
'Spec' I made a bad bahgin when I bought dat nigger . 
Henry done good wuk all de summer , but sence de fall set in he 'pears ter be sorter pinin' away . 
I spec's you wukked him too ha'd dis summer , er e'se de swamps down here don't agree wid de san' hill nigger . 
So you des lemme know , en ef he gits any wusser I'll be willin' ter gib yer five hund'ed dollars fer 'im , en take my chances on his livin' . 
Henry nebber say nuffin 'bout de goopher ter his noo marsters , 'caze he know he gwine ter be tuk good keer uv de nex' winter , w'en Mars Dugal' buy him back . 
En Mars Dugal' made 'nuff money off'n Henry ter buy anudder plantation ober on Beaver Crick . 
But long 'bout de een' er dat five year dey come a stranger ter stop at de plantation . 
De fus' day he 'uz dere he went out wid Mars Dugal' en spent all de mawnin' lookin' ober de vimya'd , en atter dinner dey spent all de evenin' playin' kya'ds . 
De niggers soon 'skiver' dat he wuz a Yankee , en dat he come down ter Norf C'lina fer ter learn de w'ite folks how to raise grapes en make wine . 
En ole Mars Dugal' des drunk it all in , des 'peared ter be bewitched wit dat Yankee . 
W'en de darkies see dat Yankee runnin' 'roun de vimya'd en diggin' under de grapevimes , dey shuk dere heads , en 'lowed dat dey feared Mars Dugal' losin' his min' . 
Mars Dugal' had all de dirt dug away fum under de roots er all de scuppernon' vimes , an' let 'em stan' dat away fer a week er mo' . 
Den dat Yankee made de niggers fix up a mixtry er lime en ashes en manyo , en po' it roun' de roots er de grapevimes . 
Den he 'vise' Mars Dugal' fer ter trim de vimes close't , en Mars Dugal' tuck 'n done eve'ything de Yankee tole him ter do . 
W'en de sap ris nex' spring , ole Henry 'n'inted his head ez yuzhal , en his ha'r commence' ter grow des de same ez it done eve'y year . 
So he kep' Henry on de plantation . 
Mars Dugal' tuck 'n water de vimes en done all he could , but 't wan' no use dat Yankee done bus' de watermillyum . 
All dis time de goopher wuz a wukkin' . 
W'en de vimes commence' ter wither , Henry commence' ter complain er his rheumatiz , en when de leaves begin ter dry up his ha'r commence' ter drap out . 
Dey didn't 'pear ter be nuffin de matter wid 'im , 'cep'n de rheumatiz , but his strenk des dwinel' away 'tel he didn' hab ernuff lef' ter draw his bref . 
De goopher had got de under holt , en th'owed Henry fer good en all dat time . 
He sot de vimya'd out ober agin , but it wuz th'ee er fo' year befo' de vimes got ter b'arin' any scuppernon's . 
W'en de wah broke out , Mars Dugal' raise' a comp'ny , en went off ter fight de Yankees . 
He saw he wuz mighty glad dat wah come , en he des want ter kill a Yankee fer eve'y dollar he los' 'long er dat grape raisin' Yankee . 
En I 'spec' he would a done it , too , ef de Yankees hadn' s'picioned sump'n , en killed him fus' . 
Atter de s'render ole miss move' ter town , de niggers all scattered 'way fum de plantation , en de vimya'd ain' be'n cultervated sence . 
Is that story true ? asked Annie , doubtfully , but seriously , as the old man concluded his narrative . 
It's des ez true ez I'm a settin' here , miss . 
Dey's a easy way ter prove it I kin lead de way right ter Henry's grave ober yander in de plantation buryin' groun' . 
But I thought you said all the old vines died . 
Dey did 'pear ter die , but a few ov 'em come out ag'in , en is mixed in mongs' de yuthers . 
I ain' skeered ter eat de grapes , 'caze I knows de old vimes fum de noo ones but wid strangers dey ain' no tellin' w'at might happen . 
I wouldn' 'vise yer ter buy dis vimya'd . 
I have not noticed any developments of the goopher in the vineyard , although I have a mild suspicion that our colored assistants do not suffer from want of grapes during the season . 
I found , when I bought the vineyard , that Uncle Julius had occupied a cabin on the place for many years , and derived a respectable revenue from the neglected grapevines . 
This , doubtless , accounted for his advice to me not to buy the vineyard , though whether it inspired the goopher story I am unable to state . 
I believe , however , that the wages I pay him for his services are more than an equivalent for anything he lost by the sale of the vineyard . 
It was built of pine lumber , and contained but one room , to which one window gave light and one door admission . 
Its weather beaten sides revealed a virgin innocence of paint . 
These evidences of decay were but partially concealed by a creeping vine , which extended its slender branches hither and thither in an ambitious but futile attempt to cover the whole chimney . 
The wooden shutter , which had once protected the unglazed window , had fallen from its hinges , and lay rotting in the rank grass and jimson weeds beneath . 
One day my wife requested me to build her a new kitchen . 
Of course I had to build it . 
Our carriage jolted over the half rotted corduroy road which traversed the swamp , and then climbed the long hill leading to the saw mill . 
We remained seated in the carriage , a few rods from the mill , and watched the leisurely movements of the mill hands . 
The sound rose and fell in a sort of rhythmic cadence , which , heard from where we sat , was not unpleasing , and not loud enough to prevent conversation . 
The pathetic intonation with which he lengthened out the po' Sandy touched a responsive chord in our own hearts . 
And who was poor Sandy ? asked my wife , who takes a deep interest in the stories of plantation life which she hears from the lips of the older colored people . 
Sandy , said Julius , in reply to my wife's question , was a nigger w'at useter b'long ter ole Mars Marrabo McSwayne . 
Mars Marrabo's place wuz on de yuther side'n de swamp , right nex' ter yo' place . 
One time w'en Sandy wuz lent out ez yushal , a spekilater come erlong wid a lot er niggers , en Mars Marrabo swap' Sandy's wife off fer a noo 'oman . 
Sandy en his noo wife got on mighty well tergedder , en de niggers all 'mence' ter talk about how lovin' dey wuz . 
Sandy's marster wuz one er dese yer easy gwine folks w'at wanter please eve'ybody , en he says yas , he could len' 'im Sandy . 
En Mars Marrabo tole Sandy fer ter git ready ter go down ter Robeson nex' day , fer ter stay a mont' er so . 
Hit wuz monst'us hard on Sandy fer ter take 'im 'way fum Tenie . 
Sandy wuz mighty sad en cas' down atter w'at Mars Marrabo tole 'im , en he says ter Tenie , sezee 'I'm gittin monstus ti'ed er dish yer gwine roun' so much . 
I wisht I wuz a tree , er a stump , er a rock , er sump'n w'at could stay on de plantation fer a w'ile . 
Atter Sandy got thoo talkin' , Tenie didn' say naer word , but des sot dere by de fier , studyin' en studyin' . 
Ef you'll des say de word , I kin turn yer ter w'ateber yer wanter be , en yer kin stay right whar yer wanter , ez long ez yer mineter . 
Sandy say he doan keer he's willin' fer ter do anythin' fer ter stay close ter Tenie . 
Den Tenie ax 'im ef he doan wanter be turnt inter a rabbit . 
Sandy say , 'No , de dogs mout git atter me . 
'Shill I turn yer ter a wolf ? sez Tenie . 
'No , eve'ybody's skeered er a wolf , en I doan want nobody ter be skeered er me . 
'Shill I turn yer ter a mawkin' bird ? 'No , a hawk mout ketch me . 
I wanter be turnt inter sump'n w'at'll stay in one place . 
'I kin turn yer ter a tree , sez Tenie . 
'You won't hab no mouf ner years , but I kin turn yer back oncet in a w'ile , so yer kin git sump'n ter eat , en hear w'at's gwine on . 
Well , Sandy say dat'll do . 
W'en Mars Marrabo 'skiver' dat Sandy wuz gone , he 'lowed Sandy had runned away . 
He got de dogs out , but de las' place dey could track Sandy ter wuz de foot er dat pine tree . 
But Sandy didn' git erlong widout his trials en tribberlations . 
Nudder time , Mars Marrabo sent a nigger out in de woods fer ter chop tuppentime boxes . 
De man chop a box in dish yer tree , en hack' de bark up two er th'ee feet , fer ter let de tuppentime run . 
But dey ain' no tellin' w'at's gwine ter happen in dis worl' . 
Tenie's mistiss say sen Tenie she wuz a good nuss . 
Young mars wuz in a tarrible hurry fer ter git back home . 
Tenie wuz washin' at de big house dat day , en her mistiss say she should go right 'long wid her young marster . 
Her mistiss say it doan matter 'bout de bonnet her head hankcher wuz good 'nuff . 
De po' gal felt monst'us bad erbout de way things wuz gwine on , en she knowed Sandy mus' be a wond'rin' why she didn' come en turn 'im back no mo' . 
En I dunno how it come to be so , but he happen fer ter hit on de ve'y tree w'at Sandy wuz turnt inter . 
Tenie wuz gone , en dey wa'n't nobody ner nuffin' fer ter watch de tree . 
It wuz de beatenis' thing ! W'en dey got de tree all trim' up , dey chain it up ter a timber waggin , en start fer de saw mill . 
W'en dey start' on ag'in , de chain kep' a comin' loose , en dey had ter keep a stoppin' en a stoppin' fer ter hitch de log up ag'in . 
De nex' mawnin' atter de day de tree wuz haul' ter de saw mill , Tenie come home . 
W'en she got back ter her cabin , de fus' thing she done wuz ter run down ter de woods en see how Sandy wuz gittin' on . 
W'en she seed de stump standin' dere , wid de sap runnin' out'n it , en de limbs layin' scattered roun' , she nigh 'bout went out'n her mine . 
She run ter her cabin , en got her goopher mixtry , en den foller de track er de timber waggin ter de saw mill . 
She knowed Sandy couldn' lib mo' d'n a minute er so ef she turn' him back , fer he wuz all chop' up so he'd a be'n bleedst ter die . 
But she wanted ter turn 'im back long ernuff fer ter 'splain ter 'im dat she hadn' went off a purpose , en lef' 'im ter be chop' down en sawed up . 
She didn' want Sandy ter die wid no hard feelin's to'ds her . 
But it wuz mighty hard wuk fer of all de sweekin' , en moanin' , en groanin' , dat log done it w'iles de saw wuz a cuttin' thoo it . 
De saw wuz one er dese yer ole timey , up en down saws , en hit tuk longer dem days ter saw a log 'en it do now . 
Dey greased de saw , but dat didn' stop de fuss hit kep' right on , tel finely dey got de log all sawed up . 
En de oberseah sent two er th'ee er de han's fer ter take Tenie back ter her marster's plantation . 
Tenie 'peared ter be out'n her mine fer a long time , en her marster ha' ter lock her up in de smoke 'ouse tel she got ober her spells . 
Wiles Tenie wuz lock up in de smoke 'ouse , Mars Marrabo tuk'n' haul de lumber fum de saw mill , en put up his noo kitchen . 
De noo kitchen Mars Marrabo buil' wuzn' much use , fer it hadn' be'n put up long befo' de niggers 'mence' ter notice quare things erbout it . 
But somehow er nudder de niggers foun' out all 'bout it , en dey knowed de kitchen wuz ha'anted by Sandy's sperrit . 
En bimeby hit got so Mars Marrabo's wife herse'f wuz skeered ter go out in de yard atter dark . 
W'en it come ter dat , Mars Marrabo tuk 'n' to' de kitchen down , en use' de lumber fer ter buil' dat ole school 'ouse w'at youer talkin' 'bout pullin' down . 
De school 'ouse wuzn' use' 'cep'n' in de daytime , en on dark nights folks gwine 'long de road would hear quare soun's en see quare things . 
Po' ole Tenie useter go down dere at night , en wander 'roun' de school 'ouse en de niggers all 'lowed she went fer ter talk wid Sandy's sperrit . 
Dere didn' 'pear ter be nuffin' pertickler de matter wid her , she had des grieve' herse'f ter def fer her Sandy . 
Mars Marrabo didn' shed no tears . 
W'en de wah broke out , de school stop' , en de ole school 'ouse be'n stannin' empty ever sence , dat is , 'cep'n' fer de ha'nts . 
Annie had listened to this gruesome narrative with strained attention . 
What a system it was , she exclaimed , when Julius had finished , under which such things were possible ! What things ? I asked , in amazement . 
But I don't think I should ever be able to take any pleasure in that kitchen if it were built out of that lumber . 
Besides , I think the kitchen would look better and last longer if the lumber were all new . 
Of course she had her way . 
I bought the new lumber , though not without grumbling . 
A week or two later I was called away from home on business . 
About half the members have come out from the main body , and set up for themselves . 
Uncle Julius is one of the seceders , and he came to me yesterday and asked if they might not hold their meetings in the old school house for the present . 
I hope you didn't let the old rascal have it , I returned , with some warmth . 
I had just received a bill for the new lumber I had bought . 
Well , she replied , I could not refuse him the use of the house for so good a purpose . 
And I'll venture to say , I continued , that you subscribed something toward the support of the new church ? She did not attempt to deny it . 
What are they going to do about the ghost ? I asked , somewhat curious to know how Julius would get around this obstacle . 
DAVE'S NECKLISS by Charles W. Chesnutt Have some dinner , Uncle Julius ? said my wife . 
It was a Sunday afternoon in early autumn . 
Our two women servants had gone to a camp meeting some miles away , and would not return until evening . 
No , said Annie , I won't . 
Just sit down to the table and help yourself eat all you want , and don't be bashful . 
Julius drew a chair up to the table , while my wife and I went out on the piazza . 
I threw myself into a hammock , from which I could see Julius through an open window . 
He ate with evident relish , devoting his attention chiefly to the ham , slice after slice of which disappeared in the spacious cavity of his mouth . 
At first the old man ate rapidly , but after the edge of his appetite had been taken off he proceeded in a more leisurely manner . 
But the emotion , whatever the thought that caused it , was transitory , and in a moment he continued his dinner . 
When he was through eating , he came out on the porch , and resumed his seat with the satisfied expression of countenance that usually follows a good dinner . 
Julius , I said , you seemed to be affected by something , a moment ago . 
Was the mustard so strong that it moved you to tears ? No , suh , it wa'n't de mustard I wuz studyin' 'bout Dave . 
Who was Dave , and what about him ? I asked . 
The conditions were all favorable to story telling . 
There was an autumnal languor in the air , and a dreamy haze softened the dark green of the distant pines and the deep blue of the Southern sky . 
The generous meal he had made had put the old man in a very good humor . 
He was not always so , for his curiously undeveloped nature was subject to moods which were almost childish in their variableness . 
It was only now and then that we were able to study , through the medium of his recollection , the simple but intensely human inner life of slavery . 
His way of looking at the past seemed very strange to us his view of certain sides of life was essentially different from ours . 
I fear not and if not , then centuries of repression had borne their legitimate fruit . 
Dave wuz a tall man , en monst'us strong he could do mo' wuk in a day dan any yuther two niggers on de plantation . 
He wuz one er dese yer solemn kine er men , en nebber run on wid much foolishness , like de yuther darkies . 
Dave had l'arn' how ter read de Bible . 
Dey wuz a free nigger boy in de settlement w'at wuz monst'us smart , en could write en cipher , en wuz alluz readin' books er papers . 
En Dave had hi'ed dis free boy fer ter l'arn 'im how ter read . 
Hit wuz 'g'in de law , but co'se none er de niggers didn' say nuffin ter de w'ite folks 'bout it . 
Howsomedever , one day Mars Walker he wuz de oberseah foun' out Dave could read . 
Mars Dugal' sont fer Dave , en ax' 'im 'bout it . 
Dave didn't hardly knowed w'at ter do but he couldn' tell no lie , so he 'fessed he could read de Bible a little by spellin' out de words . 
Mars Dugal' look' mighty solemn . 
'Dis yer is a se'ious matter , sezee 'it's 'g'in de law ter l'arn niggers how ter read , er 'low 'em ter hab books . 
Mars Dugal' sorter smile' en laf' ter hisse'f , like he 'uz might'ly tickle' 'bout sump'n , en sezee 'Doan 'pear ter me lack readin' de Bible done yer much harm , Dave . 
Dat's w'at I wants all my niggers fer ter know . 
Yer keep right on readin' , en tell de yuther han's w'at yer be'n tellin' me . 
How would yer lack fer ter preach ter de niggers on Sunday ? Dave say he'd be glad fer ter do w'at he could . 
Dave wuz one er dese yer men w'at didn' keer much fer de gals , leastways he didn' tel Dilsey come ter de plantation . 
She had b'long' ter a gemman over on Rockfish , w'at died , en whose 'state ha' ter be sol' fer ter pay his debts . 
Dey wuz a fine lookin' couple , Dave en Dilsey wuz , bofe tall , en well shape' , en soopl' . 
En dey sot a heap by one ernudder . 
Mars Dugal' seed 'em tergedder one Sunday , en de nex' time he seed Dave atter dat , sezee Sweetheart . 
Dave , w'en yer en Dilsey gits ready fer ter git married , I ain' got no rejections . 
Dey's a poun' er so er chawin' terbacker up at de house , en I reckon yo' mist'iss kin fine a frock en a ribbin er two fer Dilsey . 
But dere wuz one man on de plantation w'at didn' lack ter see Dave en Dilsey tergedder ez much ez ole marster did . 
W'en Mars Dugal' went ter de sale whar he got Dilsey en Mahaly , he bought ernudder han' , by de name er Wiley . 
Wiley wuz one er dese yer shiny eyed , double headed little niggers , sha'p ez a steel trap , en sly ez de fox w'at keep out'n it . 
Dis yer Wiley had be'n pesterin' Dilsey 'fo' she come ter our plantation , en had nigh 'bout worried de life out'n her . 
She didn' keer nuffin fer 'im , but he pestered her so she ha' ter th'eaten ter tell her marster fer ter make Wiley let her 'lone . 
Dave en Dilsey made up dere min's fer ter git married long 'bout Christmas time , w'en dey'd hab mo' time fer a weddin' . 
But 'long 'bout two weeks befo' dat time ole mars 'mence' ter lose a heap er bacon . 
Eve'y night er so somebody 'ud steal a side er bacon , er a ham , er a shoulder , er sump'n , fum one er de smoke 'ouses . 
De smoke 'ouses wuz lock' , but somebody had a key , en manage' ter git in some way er 'nudder . 
Dey's mo' ways 'n one ter skin a cat , en dey's mo' d'n one way ter git in a smoke 'ouse , leastways dat's w'at I hearn say . 
Folks w'at had bacon fer ter sell didn' hab no trouble 'bout gittin' rid un it . 
Hit wuz 'g'in' de law fer ter buy things fum slabes but Lawd ! dat law didn' 'mount ter a hill er peas . 
Eve'y week er so one er dese yer big covered waggins would come 'long de road , peddlin' terbacker en w'iskey . 
En he say he'd gin fi' dollars ter de nigger w'at 'skiver' de rogue . 
Mars Walker say he s'picion' one er two er de niggers , but he couldn' tell fer sho , en co'se dey all 'nied it w'en he 'cuse em un it . 
Dey wa'n't no bacon stole' fer a week er so , 'tel one dark night w'en somebody tuk a ham fum one er de smoke 'ouses . 
W'en Mars Walker hearn dis fum Wiley , he went en sarch' Dave's cabin , en foun' de ham hid under de flo' . 
Eve'ybody wuz 'stonish' but dere wuz de ham . 
Co'se Dave 'nied it ter de las' , but dere wuz de ham . 
W'en Mars Dugal' hearn 'bout de ham , he say he wuz might'ly 'ceived en disapp'inted in Dave . 
Well , it des 'peared ez if fum dat time Dave didn' hab nuffin but trouble . 
De niggers all turnt ag'in' 'im , caze he be'n de 'casion er Mars Dugal' turnin' 'em all ober ter Mars Walker . 
Mars Dugal' wa'n't a bad marster hisse'f , but Mars Walker wuz hard ez a rock . 
Dave kep' on sayin' he didn' take de ham , but none un 'em didn' b'lieve 'im . 
Dilsey wa'n't on de plantation w'en Dave wuz 'cused er stealin' de bacon . 
'Yer des oughter look at dat nigger reckon yer wouldn' want 'im fer yo' junesey no mo' . 
Mars Walker cotch 'im stealin' bacon , en gone en fasten' a ham roun' his neck , so he can't git it off'n hisse'f . 
He sut'nly do look quare . 
En den de 'ooman bus' out laffin' fit ter kill herse'f . 
W'en she got thoo laffin' she up'n tole Dilsey all 'bout de ham , en all de yuther lies w'at de niggers be'n tellin' on Dave . 
W'en Dilsey started down ter de quarters , who should she meet but Dave , comin' in fum de cotton fiel' . 
She turnt her head ter one side , en purten' lack she didn' seed Dave . 
Dilsey walk' right on , en didn' notice 'im . 
'OH , Dilsey ! Dilsey didn' paid no 'tention ter 'im , en den Dave knowed some er de niggers be'n tellin' her 'bout de ham . 
Yer ain' gwine back on yo' Dave , is yer ? But w'at Dave say didn' hab no 'fec' on Dilsey . 
Dem lies folks b'en tellin' her had p'isen' her min' 'g'in' Dave . 
'I doan wanter talk ter no nigger , says she , 'w'at be'n whip' fer stealin' , en w'at gwine roun' wid sich a lookin' thing ez dat hung roun' his neck . 
I's a 'spectable gal , I is . 
De las' one he had 'pended on fer ter stan' by 'im had gone back on 'im , en dey didn' 'pear ter be nuffin mo' wuf libbin' fer . 
He couldn' hol' no mo' pra'r meetin's , fer Mars Walker wouldn' 'low 'im ter preach , en de darkies wouldn' 'a' listen' ter 'im ef he had preach' . 
En ter make it still harder fer Dave , Dilsey tuk up wid Wiley . 
Dave could see him gwine up ter Aun' Mahaly's cabin , en settin' out on de bench in de moonlight wid Dilsey , en singin' sinful songs en playin' de banjer . 
Dave use' ter scrouch down behine de bushes , en wonder w'at de Lawd sen' 'im all dem tribberlations fer . 
But all er Dave's yuther troubles wa'n't nuffin side er dat ham . 
W'eneber he went ter lay down , dat ham would be in de way . 
Ef he turn ober in his sleep , dat ham would be tuggin' at his neck . 
It wuz de las' thing he seed at night , en de fus' thing he seed in de mawnin' . 
W'eneber he met a stranger , de ham would be de fus' thing de stranger would see . 
Fus' Dave didn' mine it so much , caze he knowed he hadn' done nuffin . 
He got ter gwine roun' talkin' ter hisse'f , en singin' corn shuckin' songs , en laffin' fit ter kill 'bout nuffin . 
So he sont Dave down ter de blacksmif shop en had de ham tak off . 
W'en de ham had be'n tuk off'n Dave , folks kinder stopped talkin' 'bout 'im so much . 
But de ham had be'n on his neck so long dat Dave had sorter got use' ter it . 
Fac' , it 'peared lack Dave done gone clean out'n his mine . 
En atter a w'ile he got one er de quarest notions you eber hearn tell un . 
It wuz 'bout dat time dat I come back ter de plantation fer ter wuk , I had be'n out ter Mars Dugal's yuther place on Beaver Crick for a mont' er so . 
'Julius' , sic sezee , 'did yer knowed yer wuz wukkin' long yer wid a ham ? I couldn 'magine w'at he meant . 
'G'way fum yer , Dave , says I. 'Yer ain' wearin' no ham no mo' try en fergit 'bout dat 't ain' gwine ter do yer no good fer ter 'member it . 
'Kin I trus' yer , Julius ? Will yer cross yo' heart ? I cross' my heart . 
Hit wa'n't long atter dat befo' Mars Archie McIntyre , ober on de Wimbleton road , 'mence' ter complain 'bout somebody stealin' chickens fum his hen 'ouse . 
De chickens kip' on gwine , en at las' Mars Archie tole de han's on his plantation dat he gwine ter shoot de fus' man he ketch in his hen 'ouse . 
In less'n a week atter he gin dis warnin' , he cotch a nigger in de hen 'ouse , en fill' 'im full er squir'l shot . 
W'en he got a light , he 'skivered it wuz a strange nigger en w'en he call' one er his own sarven's , de nigger tole 'im it wuz our Wiley . 
Mars Dugal' wuz mad at fus' but w'en he got ober dere en hearn how it all happen' , he didn' hab much ter say . 
Dave didn' steal dat bacon w'at wuz tuk out'n de smoke 'ouse . 
I stole it all , en I hid de ham under Dave's cabin fer ter th'ow de blame on him en may de good Lawd fergib me fer it . 
Mars Dugal' had Wiley tuk back ter de plantation , en sont fer a doctor fer ter pick de shot out'n 'im . 
En de ve'y nex' mawnin' Mars Dugal' sont fer Dave ter come up ter de big house he felt kinder sorry fer de way Dave had be'n treated . 
Co'se it wa'n't no fault er Mars Dugal's , but he wuz gwine ter do w'at he could fer ter make up fer it . 
So he sont word down ter de quarters fer Dave en all de yuther han's ter 'semble up in de yard befo' de big house at sun up nex' mawnin' . 
yearly in de mawnin' de niggers all swarm' up in de yard . 
Mars Dugal' wuz feelin' so kine dat he had brung up a bairl er cider , en tole de niggers all fer ter he'p deyselves . 
All dey han's on de plantation come but Dave en bimeby , w'en it seem lack he wa'n't comin' , Mars Dugal' sont a nigger down ter de quarters ter look fer 'im . 
I wants ter treat all my niggers right , en I wants yer all ter know dat I sets a heap by all er my han's w'at is hones' en smart . 
En de fus' one I ketch sayin' anythin' 'g'in Dave , I'll tell Mister Walker ter gin 'im forty . 
Now take ernudder drink er cider all roun' , en den git at dat cotton , fer I wanter git dat Persimmon Hill trac' all pick' ober ter day . 
W'en de niggers wuz gwine 'way , Mars Dugal' tole me fer ter go en hunt up Dave , en bring 'im up ter de house . 
I went down ter Dave's cabin , but couldn' fine 'im dere . 
Den I look' roun' de plantation , en in de aidge er de woods , en 'long de road but I couldn' fine no sign er Dave . 
I wuz 'bout ter gin up de sarch , w'en I happen' fer ter run 'cross a foot track w'at look' lack Dave's . 
I had wukked 'long wid Dave so much dat I knowed his tracks he had a monst'us long foot , wid a holler instep , w'ich wuz sump'n skase 'mongs' black folks . 
So I follered dat track 'cross de fiel' fum de quarters 'tel I got ter de smoke 'ouse . 
I couldn' 'magine fer ter sabe my life w'at Dave wuz doin' in dat smoke 'ouse . 
I went up ter de do' en hollered 'Dave ! Dey didn' nobody answer . 
So I sorter knock at de do' en call' out ag'in 'O Dave , hit's me Julius ! Doan be skeered . 
Mars Dugal' wants yer ter come up ter de big house , he done 'skivered who stole de ham . 
Den I knowed how it all happen' . 
Dave wuz buried down by de swamp , in de plantation buryin' groun' . 
En w'en de een' er de year come , Mars Dugal' turnt Mars Walker off , en run de plantation hisse'f atter dat . 
Eber sence den , said Julius in conclusion , w'eneber I eats ham , it min's me er Dave . 
I went into the house . 
When I came out , half an hour later , I saw Julius disappearing down the lane , with a basket on his arm . 
At breakfast , next morning , it occurred to me that I should like a slice of ham . 
I said as much to my wife . 
Oh , no , John , she responded , you shouldn't eat anything so heavy for breakfast . 
The fact is , she said , pensively , I couldn't have eaten any more of that ham , and so I gave it to Julius . 
I noted the poverty , the untidiness , the want of system and thrift , that existed about the cabin , notwithstanding his knowledge of French and other academic subjects . 
Another time , when riding on the outer edges of a town in the South , I heard the sound of a piano coming from a cabin of the same kind . 
Perhaps I may be forgiven for the seeming egotism if I mention the expansion of my own life partly as an example of what I mean . 
My earliest recollection is of a small one room log hut on a large slave plantation in Virginia . 
After the close of the war , while working in the coal mines of West Virginia for the support of my mother , I heart in some accidental way of the Hampton Institute . 
Bidding my mother good by , I started out one morning to find my way to Hampton , though I was almost penniless and had no definite idea where Hampton was . 
By walking , begging rides , and paying for a portion of the journey on the steam cars , I finally succeeded in reaching the city of Richmond , Virginia . 
I was without money or friends . 
My work began at Tuskegee , Alabama , in , in a small shanty and church , with one teacher and thirty students , without a dollar's worth of property . 
What is the object of all this outlay ? First , it must be borne in mind that we have in the South a peculiar and unprecedented state of things . 
The problem that the Tuskegee Institute keeps before itself constantly is how to prepare these leaders . 
From the outset , in connection with religious and academic training , it has emphasized industrial or hand training as a means of finding the way out of present conditions . 
First , we have found the industrial teaching useful in giving the student a chance to work out a portion of his expenses while in school . 
Second , the school furnishes labor that has an economic value , and at the same time gives the student a chance to acquire knowledge and skill while performing the labor . 
Most of all , we find the industrial system valuable in teaching economy , thrift , and the dignity of labor , and in giving moral backbone to students . 
A more detailed example of our methods at Tuskegee may be of interest . 
For example , we cultivate by student labor six hundred and fifty acres of land . 
Friends have recently provided means for the erection of a large new chapel at Tuskegee . 
Our students have made the bricks for this chapel . 
In this way all but three of the thirty buildings on the grounds have been erected . 
This is far from being the object at Tuskegee . 
How can this be done ? I give but one or two examples . 
He found the negroes in debt . 
Ever since the war they had been mortgaging their crops for the food on which to live while the crops were growing . 
The school had been taught in a wreck of a log cabin , with no apparatus , and had never been in session longer than three months out of twelve . 
In spite of the evil , the negro got the habit of work from slavery . 
The young man just referred to had been trained at Tuskegee , as most of our graduates are , to meet just this condition of things . 
He took the three months' public school as a nucleus for his work . 
Then he organized the older people into a club , or conference , that held meetings every week . 
, and to live without mortgaging their crops . 
The following year the weekly meetings were continued , and two months were added to the original three months of school . 
The next year two more months were added . 
The improvement has gone on , until now these people have every year an eight months' school . 
I wish my readers could have the chance that I have had of going into this community . 
I wish they could look into the faces of the people and see them beaming with hope and delight . 
The teacher has a good cottage and a well kept farm that serve as models . 
One community on its feet presents an object lesson for the adjoining communities , and soon improvements show themselves in other places . 
It would be easy for me to fill many pages describing the influence of the Tuskegee graduates in every part of the South . 
We find it a pretty hard thing to make a good Christian of a hungry man . 
No matter how much our people get happy and shout in church , if they go home at night from church hungry , they are tempted to find something before morning . 
This is a principle of human nature , and is not confined to the negro . 
The negro has within him immense power for self uplifting , but for years it will be necessary to guide and stimulate him . 
They come in ox carts , mule carts , buggies , on muleback and horseback , on foot , by railroad some traveling all night in order to be present . 
After listening to the story of the conditions and needs from the people themselves , the Workers' Conference finds much food for thought and discussion . 
Nothing else so soon brings about right relations between the two races in the South as the industrial progress of the negro . 
This is another reason why at Tuskegee we push the industrial training . 
The white man on whose house the mortgage rests will not try to prevent that negro from voting when he goes to the polls . 
Whether he will or not , a white man respects a negro who owns a two story brick house . 
The negro in turn looked down upon the poor whites with a certain contempt because they had to work . 
Labor with him was a badge of degradation . 
Then , in addition to these influences , the slave system discouraged labor saving machinery . 
To use labor saving machinery intelligence was required , and intelligence and slavery were not on friendly terms hence the negro always associated labor with toil , drudgery , something to be escaped . 
Out of these conditions grew the Southern habit of putting off till to morrow and the day after the duty that should be done promptly to day . 
The leaky house was not repaired while the sun shone , for then the rain did not come through . 
While the rain was falling , no one cared to expose himself to stop the leak . 
The plough , on the same principle , was left where the last furrow was run , to rot and rust in the field during the winter . 
There was no need to repair the wooden chimney that was exposed to the fire , because water could be thrown on it when it was on fire . 
There was no need to trouble about the payment of a debt to day , for it could just as well be paid next week or next year . 
To me it seemed perfectly plain that here was a condition of things that could not be met by the ordinary process of education . 
have to refuse admission to hundreds of applicants . 
The social lines that were once sharply drawn between those who labored with the hand and those who did not are disappearing . 
The South is beginning to see labor raised up , dignified and beautified , and in this sees its salvation . 
In proportion as the love of labor grows , the large idle class which has long been one of the curses of the South disappears . 
As its members become absorbed in occupations , they have less time to attend to everybody else's business , and more time for their own . 
Any force that brings the rank and file of the people to a greater love of industry is therefore especially valuable . 
This result industrial education is surely bringing about . 
It stimulates production and increases trade , trade between the races , and in this new and engrossing relation both forget the past . 
Many of those who a few years ago opposed general education are now among its warmest advocates . 
This industrial training , emphasizing as it does the idea of economic production , is gradually bringing the South to the point where it is feeding itself . 
THE STORY OF UNCLE TOM'S CABIN by Charles Dudley Warner On the th of June , , Henry Clay died . 
This was the publication of Uncle Tom's Cabin . 
The compromise of satisfied neither the North nor the South . 
The fugitive slave law was hateful to the North not only because it was cruel and degrading , but because it was seen to be a move formed for nationalizing slavery . 
It was unsatisfactory to the South because it was deemed inadequate in its provisions , and because the South did not believe the North would execute it in good faith . 
Henry Clay was a patriot , a typical American . 
The republic and its preservation were the passions of his life . 
Like Lincoln , who was born in the State of his adoption , he was willing to make almost any sacrifice for the maintenance of the Union . 
He had no sympathy with the system of slavery . 
There is no doubt that he would have been happy in the belief that it was in the way of gradual and peaceful extinction . 
With him , it was always the Union before state rights and before slavery . 
Unlike Lincoln , he had not the clear vision to see that the republic could not endure half slave and half free . 
We are not liable to overrate his influence as a compromising pacificator from to . 
History will no doubt say that it was largely due to him that the war on the Union was postponed to a date when its success was impossible . 
It was the fugitive slave law that brought the North face to face with slavery nationalized , and it was the fugitive slave law that produced Uncle Tom's Cabin . 
The effect of this story was immediate and electric . 
It went straight to the hearts of tens of thousands of people who had never before considered slavery except as a political institution for which they had no personal responsibility . 
The facts had all been published . 
The subject had to be carried home to the conscience . 
Pamphleteering , convention holding , sermons , had failed to do this . 
Evidence had not done this , passionate appeals had not done it , vituperation had not done it . 
What was needed ? If we can discover this , we shall have the secret of this epoch making novel . 
The story of this book has often been told . 
At the age of twenty four the author was married and went to live in Cincinnati , where her husband held a chair in the Lane Theological Seminary . 
There for the first time she was brought into relations with the African race and saw the effects of slavery . 
She visited slaveholders in Kentucky and had friends among them . 
In some homes she saw the patriarchal institution at its best . 
The Beecher family were anti slavery , but they had not been identified with the abolitionists , except perhaps Edward , who was associated with the murdered Lovejoy . 
It was long a reproach brought by the abolitionists against Henry Ward Beecher that he held entirely aloof from their movement . 
At Cincinnati , however , the personal aspects of the case were brought home to Mrs. Stowe . 
She learned the capacities and peculiarities of the negro race . 
These things crowded upon her mind and awoke her deepest compassion . 
But what could she do against all the laws , the political and commercial interests , the great public apathy ? Relieve a case here and there , yes . 
But to dwell upon the gigantic evil , with no means of making head against it , was to invite insanity . 
But when she reached New England the excitement over the fugitive slave law was at its height . 
There was a panic in Boston among the colored people settled there , who were daily fleeing to Canada . 
Every mail brought her pitiful letters from Boston , from Illinois , and elsewhere , of the terror and despair caused by the law . 
Still more was the impressed by the apathy of the Christian world at the North , and surely , she said , the people did not understand what the system was . 
Appeals were made to her , who had some personal knowledge of the subject , to take up her pen . 
The task seemed beyond her in every way . 
The dependence was upon the small salary of Professor Stowe , and the few dollars she could earn by an occasional newspaper or magazine article . 
She wanted to do this with entire fairness , showing all the mitigations of the patriarchal system , and all that individuals concerned in it could do to alleviate its misery . 
The first part of the book ever committed to writing this is the statement of Mrs. Stowe was the death of Uncle Tom . 
This scene presented itself almost as a tangible vision to her mind while sitting at the communion table in the little church in Brunswick . 
She was perfectly overcome by it , and could scarcely restrain the convulsion of tears and sobbings that shook her frame . 
She hastened home and wrote it , and her husband being away , read it to her two sons of ten and twelve years of age . 
Scenes , incidents , conversations rushed upon her with a vividness and importunity that would not be denied . 
The book insisted upon getting itself into being , and would take no denial . 
When two or three chapters were written she wrote to her friend , Dr . 
Bailey , of Washington , the editor of The National Era , to which she had contributed , that she was planning a story that might run through several numbers of the Era . 
The story was at once applied for , and thereafter weekly installments were sent on regularly , in spite of all cares and distractions . 
But they did not break the spell or destroy her abstraction . 
With a smile and a word and a motion of the hand she would wave them off , and keep on in her magician's work . 
Long afterwards they recalled this , dimly understood at the time , and wondered at her power of concentration . 
Usually at night the chapters were read to the family , who followed the story with intense feeling . 
Mrs. Stowe was in her fortieth year . 
In shaping her material the author had but one purpose , to show the institution of slavery truly , just as it existed . 
She had visited in Kentucky had formed the acquaintance of people who were just , upright , and generous , and yet slave holders . 
She had heard their views , and appreciated their situation she felt that justice required that their difficulties should be recognized and their virtues acknowledged . 
This is her own account of the process , years after . 
But it is evident that , whether consciously or unconsciously , she did but follow the inevitable law of all great dramatic creators and true story tellers since literature began . 
For this story Mrs. Stowe received from the Era the sum of three hundred dollars . 
Before it was finished it attracted the attention of Mr. J. P. Jewett , of Boston , a young and then unknown publisher , who offered to issue it in book form . 
Mrs. Stowe replied that she did not make the story , that the story made itself , and that she could not stop it till it was done . 
Mr. Jewett proposed to Professor Stowe to publish it on half profits if he would share the expenses . 
This offer was declined , for the Stowes had no money to advance , and the common royalty of ten per cent on the sales was accepted . 
Mrs. Stowe was not interested in this business transaction . 
She was thinking only of having the book circulated for the effect she had at heart . 
The intense absorption in the story held her until the virtual end in the death of Uncle Tom , and then it seemed as if the whole vital force had left her . 
She sank into a profound discouragement . 
Then she waited for the result . 
She had not long to wait . 
The success of the book was immediate . 
Within a year three hundred thousand copies were sold . 
No work of fiction ever spread more quickly throughout the reading community or awakened a greater amount of public feeling . 
At first it seemed to go by acclamation . 
But this was not altogether owing to sympathy with the theme . 
I believe that it was its power as a novel that carried it largely . 
The community was generally apathetic when it was not hostile to any real effort to be rid of slavery . 
At first there were few dissenting voices from the chorus of praise . 
But when the effect of the book began to be evident it met with an opposition fiercer and more personal than the great wave of affectionate thankfulness which greeted it at first . 
The South and the defenders and apologists of slavery everywhere were up in arms . 
It was denounced in pulpit and in press , and some of the severest things were said of it at the North . 
The leading religious newspaper of the country , published in New York , declared that it was anti Christian . 
Mrs. Stowe was twice astonished first by its extraordinary sale , and second by the quarter from which the assault on it came . 
She herself says that her expectations were strikingly different from the facts . 
She had painted slaveholders as amiable , generous , and just . 
Her expectation was that the professed abolitionists would denounce it as altogether too mild in its dealings with slaveholders . 
To her astonishment , it was the extreme abolitionists who received , and the entire South who rose up against it . 
And yet from her point of view it was not altogether unreasonable . 
Her blackest villain and most loathsome agent of the system , Legree , was a native of Vermont . 
The slave traders and the overseers were tolerated as perhaps necessary in the system , but they were never admitted into respectable society . 
This feeling Mrs. Stowe regarded as a condemnation of the system . 
Pecuniary reward was the last thing that Mrs. Stowe expected for her disinterested labor , but it suits the world's notion of the fitness of things that this was not altogether wanting . 
Four months after the publication of the book Professor Stowe was in the publisher's office , and Mr. Jewett asked him how much he expected to receive . 
I hope , said Professor Stowe , with a whimsical smile , that it will be enough to buy my wife a silk dress . 
The publisher handed him a check for ten thousand dollars . 
Before Mrs. Stowe had a response to the letters accompanying the books privately sent to England , the novel was getting known there . 
Its career in Great Britain paralleled its success in America . 
In April a copy reached London in the hands of a gentleman who had taken it on the steamer to read . 
He gave it to Mr. Henry Vizetelly , who submitted it to Mr. David Bogue , a man known for his shrewdness and enterprise . 
He took a night to consider it , and then declined it , although it was offered to him for five pounds . 
A Mr. Gilpin also declined it . 
It was then submitted to Mr. Salisbury , a printer . 
This taster for the public sat up with the book till four o'clock in the morning , alternately weeping and laughing . 
It seems , therefore , that Mr. Vizetelly ventured to risk five pounds , and the volume was brought out through the nominal agency of Clarke Company . 
In the first week an edition of seven thousand was worked off . 
It made no great stir until the middle of June , but during July it sold at the rate of one thousand a week . 
By the th of August the demand for it was overwhelming . 
The printing firm was then employing four hundred people in getting it out , and seventeen printing machines , besides hand presses . 
Already one hundred and fifty thousand copies were sold . 
Mr. Vizetelly disposed of his interest , and a new printing firm began to issue monster editions . 
A shilling edition followed the one and sixpence , and then one complete for sixpence . 
to the cheap popular editions of s . 
Later , abridgments were published . 
Almost simultaneously with this furor in England the book made its way on the Continent . 
Several translations appeared in Germany and France , and for the authorized French edition Mrs. Stowe wrote a new preface , which served thereafter for most of the European editions . 
Into some of these languages several translations were made . 
In the British Museum contained thirty five editions of the original text , and eight editions of abridgments or adaptations . 
Mrs. Stowe had neglected to secure the dramatic rights , and she derived no benefit from the great popularity of a drama which still holds the stage . 
In some of them appeared a curious evidence of the English sensitiveness to criticism . 
This occurred in the defense of the institution by St . 
Clare , but it was treated by the British correspondents as the opinion of Mrs. Stowe . 
The charge was disposed of in Mrs. Stowe's reply The remark on that subject occurs in the dramatic part of the book , in the mouth of an intelligent Southerner . 
As a fair minded person , bound to state for both sides all that could be said , in the person of St . 
This is the slaveholder's stereo typed apology a defense it cannot be , unless two wrongs make one right . 
In April , , Mr. and Mrs. Stowe and the latter's brother , Charles Beecher , sailed for Europe . 
Her reception there was like a royal progress . 
She was met everywhere by deputations and addresses , and the enthusiasm her presence called forth was thoroughly democratic , extending from the highest in rank to the lowest . 
At Edinburgh there was presented to her a national penny offering , consisting of a thousand golden sovereigns on a magnificent silver salver , an unsolicited contribution in small sums by the people . 
At a reception in Stafford House , London , the Duchess of Sutherland presented her with a massive gold bracelet , which has an interesting history . 
It is made of ten oval links in imitation of slave fetters . 
It was Mrs. Stowe's privilege to add to these inscriptions the following Emancipation D. C. Apl . 
, and on the clasp link , Constitution amended by Congress Jan . 
Two of the links are vacant . 
The signatures of , women were obtained , with their occupations and residences , from the nobility on the steps of the throne down to maids in the kitchen . 
The address is handsomely engrossed on vellum . 
The names are contained in twenty six massive volumes , each fourteen inches high by nine in breadth and three inches thick , inclosed in an oak case . 
It is believed that this is the most numerously signed address in existence . 
This powerful reply made a profound impression in England . 
This is in brief the story of the book . 
It is still read , and read the world over , with tears and with laughter it is still played to excited audiences . 
I feared to renew acquaintance with it lest I should find only the shell of an exploded cartridge . 
I took it up at the beginning of a three hours' railway journey . 
To my surprise the journey did not seem to last half an hour , and half the time I could not keep back the tears from my eyes . 
A London critic , full of sympathy with Mrs. Stowe and her work , recently said , Yet she was not an artist , she was not a great woman . 
What is greatness ? What is art ? In probably no one who knew General Grant would have called him a great man . 
This woman did something with her pen , on the whole , the most remarkable and effective book in her generation . 
How did she do it ? Without art ? George Sand said , In matters of art there is but one rule , to paint and to move . 
Women , too , are here judged and painted with a master hand . 
This subtle critic , in her overpoweringly tender and enthusiastic review , had already inquired about the capacity of this writer . 
Mrs. Stowe is all instinct it is the very reason that she appears to some not to have talent . 
The reviewer is , however , candid For a long time we have striven in France against the prolix explanations of Walter Scott . 
Let us learn then to appreciate all kinds of treatment , where the effect is good , and where they bear the seal of a master hand . 
Abundant material was in her hands , and the author burned to make it serviceable . 
What should she do ? She might have done what she did afterwards in The Key , presented to the public a mass of statistics , of legal documents . 
The evidence would have been unanswerable , but the jury might not have been moved by it they would have balanced it by considerations of political and commercial expediency . 
I presume that Mrs. Stowe made no calculation of this kind . 
She felt her course , and went on in it . 
What would an artist have done , animated by her purpose and with her material ? He would have done what Cervantes did , what Tourgenieff did , what Mrs. Stowe did . 
He would have dramatized his facts in living personalities , in effective scenes , in vivid pictures of life . 
Mrs. Stowe exhibited the system of slavery by a succession of dramatized pictures , not always artistically welded together , but always effective as an exhibition of the system . 
Cervantes also showed a fading feudal romantic condition by a series of amusing and pathetic adventures , grouped rather loosely about a singularly fascinating figure . 
I believe the three writers followed their instincts , without an analytic argument as to the method , as the great painter follows his when he puts an idea upon canvas . 
He may invent a theory about it afterwards if he does not , some one else will invent it for him . 
There are degrees of art . 
One painter will put in unnecessary accessories , another will exhibit his sympathy too openly , the technique or the composition of another can be criticised . 
But the question is , is the picture great and effective ? Mrs. Stowe had not Tourgenieff's artistic calmness . 
Her mind was fused into a white heat with her message . 
The reader becomes interested in a shrewd study of human nature , of a section of life , with its various refinement , coarseness , fastidiousness and vulgarity , its humor and pathos . 
, and faithful adhesion to it in all vicissitudes , is one of the rarest and highest attributes of genius . 
All the chief characters in the book follow this line of absolutely consistent development , from Uncle Tom and Legree down to the most aggravating and contemptible of all , Marie St . 
The selfish and hysterical woman has never been so faithfully depicted by any other author . 
Distinguished as the novel is by its character drawing and its pathos , I doubt if it would have captivated the world without its humor . 
This quality is never wanting in the book , either for the reader's entertainment by the way , or to heighten the pathos of the narrative by contrast . 
The introduction of Topsy into the New Orleans household saves us in the dangerous approach to melodrama in the religious passages between Tom and St . 
, are based upon authentic occurrences . 
The want of unity in construction of which the critics complain is partially explained by the necessity of exhibiting the effect of slavery in its entirety . 
The parallel plots , one running to Louisiana and the other to Canada , are tied together by this consideration , and not by any real necessity to each other . 
In her own account , when she reached the death of Uncle Tom , the whole vital force left her . 
This appeal to the emotion of millions of readers cannot , however , be overlooked . 
Many regard the book as effective in regions remote from our perplexities by reason of this grace . 
Hidden Perfume , for that was the English equivalent of her name , said she was wishful to be good like Harriet Beecher Stowe . 
Poor Tom , indeed , seems to have seen deeper things in the holy book than I. . 
But a poor negro slave reads with his back , and understands better than we do . 
But I , who used to make citations from Homer , now begin to quote the Bible as Uncle Tom does . 
Uncle Tom's Cabin does that . 
Considering certain artistic deficiencies , which the French writers perceived , we might say that it was the timeliness of its theme that gave it currency in England and America . 
But that argument falls before the world wide interest in it as a mere story , in so many languages , by races unaffected by our own relation to slavery . 
A half century is not much in the life of a people it is in time an inadequate test of the staying power of a book . 
Nothing is more futile than prophecy on contemporary literary work . 
All , nevertheless , flutter round it . 
To the real question , How does it feel to be a problem ? I answer seldom a word . 
And yet , being a problem is a strange experience , peculiar even for one who has never been anything else , save perhaps in babyhood and in Europe . 
It is in the early days of rollicking boyhood that the revelation first bursts upon one , all in a day , as it were . 
I remember well when the shadow swept across me . 
I was a little thing , away up in the hills of New England , where the dark Housatonic winds between Hoosac and Taghanic to the sea . 
In a wee wooden schoolhouse , something put it into the boys' and girls' heads to buy gorgeous visiting cards ten cents a package and exchange . 
The exchange was merry , till one girl , a tall newcomer , refused my card , refused it peremptorily , with a glance . 
That sky was bluest when I could beat my mates at examination time , or beat them at a foot race , or even beat their stringy heads . 
Alas , with the years all this fine contempt began to fade for the world I longed for , and all its dazzling opportunities , were theirs , not mine . 
But they should not keep these prizes , I said some , all , I would wrest from them . 
Just how I would do it I could never decide by reading law , by healing the sick , by telling the wonderful tales that swam in my head , some way . 
The history of the American Negro is the history of this strife , this longing to attain self conscious manhood , to merge his double self into a better and truer self . 
In this merging he wishes neither of the older selves to be lost . 
This is the end of his striving to be a co worker in the kingdom of culture , to escape both death and isolation , and to husband and use his best powers . 
In his songs and exhortations swelled one refrain , liberty in his tears and curses the god he implored had freedom in his right hand . 
At last it came , suddenly , fearfully , like a dream . 
Thirty years of national life , thirty years of renewal and development , and yet the swarthy ghost of Banquo sits in its old place at the national feast . 
As the decade closed , however , he began to grasp a new idea . 
The ideal of liberty demanded for its attainment powerful means , and these the Fifteenth Amendment gave him . 
The decade fled away , a decade containing , to the freedman's mind , nothing but suppressed votes , stuffed ballot boxes , and election outrages that nullified his vaunted right of suffrage . 
And yet that decade from to held another powerful movement , the rise of another ideal to guide the unguided , another pillar of fire by night after a clouded day . 
Mission and night schools began in the smoke of battle , ran the gauntlet of reconstruction , and at last developed into permanent foundations . 
The cold statistician wrote down the inches of progress here and there , noted also where here and there a foot had slipped or some one had fallen . 
To the tired climbers , the horizon was ever dark , the mists were often cold , the Canaan was always dim and far away . 
He began to have a dim feeling that , to attain his place in the world , he must be himself , and not another . 
For the first time he sought to analyze the burden he bore upon his back , that dead weight of social degradation partially masked behind a half named Negro problem . 
He felt his poverty without a cent , without a home , without land , tools , or savings , he had entered into competition with rich , landed , skilled neighbors . 
To be a poor man is hard , but to be a poor race in a land of dollars is the very bottom of hardships . 
Nor was his burden all poverty and ignorance . 
A people thus handicapped ought not to be asked to race with the world , but rather allowed to give all its time and thought to its own social problems . 
But alas ! while sociologists gleefully count his bastards and his prostitutes , the very soul of the toiling , sweating black man is darkened by the shadow of a vast despair . 
Men call the shadow prejudice , and learnedly explain it as the natural defense of culture against barbarism , learning against ignorance , purity against crime , the higher against the lower races . 
Thus the second decade of the American Negro's freedom was a period of conflict , of inspiration and doubt , of faith and vain questionings , of Sturm and Drang . 
The ideals of physical freedom , of political power , of school training , as separate all sufficient panaceas for social ills , became in the third decade dim and overcast . 
They were the vain dreams of credulous race childhood not wrong , but incomplete and over simple . 
The power of the ballot we need in sheer self defense , and as a guarantee of good faith . 
We may misuse it , but we can scarce do worse in this respect than our whilom masters . 
Freedom , too , the long sought , we still seek , the freedom of life and limb , the freedom to work and think . 
THE WIFE OF HIS YOUTH by Charles W. Chesnutt I. Mr. Ryder was going to give a ball . 
There were several reasons why this was an opportune time for such an event . 
Mr. Ryder might aptly be called the dean of the Blue Veins . 
The original Blue Veins were a little society of colored persons organized in a certain Northern city shortly after the war . 
Its purpose was to establish and maintain correct social standards among a people whose social condition presented almost unlimited room for improvement . 
By accident , combined perhaps with some natural affinity , the society consisted of individuals who were , generally speaking , more white than black . 
Some envious outsider made the suggestion that no one was eligible for membership who was not white enough to show blue veins . 
Opinions differed , too , as to the usefulness of the society . 
Mr. Ryder was one of the most conservative . 
There were still other reasons for his popularity . 
While he was not as white as some of the Blue Veins , his appearance was such as to confer distinction upon them . 
His features were of a refined type , his hair was almost straight he was always neatly dressed his manners were irreproachable , and his morals above suspicion . 
He was economical , and had saved money he owned and occupied a very comfortable house on a respectable street . 
His residence was handsomely furnished , containing among other things a good library , especially rich in poetry , a piano , and some choice engravings . 
He generally shared his house with some young couple , who looked after his wants and were company for him for Mr. Ryder was a single man . 
In the early days of his connection with the Blue Veins he had been regarded as quite a catch , and ladies and their mothers had manoeuvred with much ingenuity to capture him . 
Not , however , until Mrs. Molly Dixon visited Groveland had any woman ever made him wish to change his condition to that of a married man . 
Mrs. Dixon had come to Groveland from Washington in the spring , and before the summer was over she had won Mr. Ryder's heart . 
She possessed many attractive qualities . 
She was much younger than he in fact , he was old enough to have been her father , though no one knew exactly how old he was . 
She was whiter than he , and better educated . 
She had moved in the best colored society of the country , at Washington , and had taught in the schools of that city . 
Such a superior person had been eagerly welcomed to the Blue Vein Society , and had taken a leading part in its activities . 
Her husband had been a government clerk , and at his death had left a considerable life insurance . 
She was visiting friends in Groveland , and , finding the town and the people to her liking , had prolonged her stay indefinitely . 
She had not seemed displeased at Mr. Ryder's attentions , but on the contrary had given him every proper encouragement indeed , a younger and less cautious man would long since have spoken . 
But he had made up his mind , and had only to determine the time when he would ask her to be his wife . 
He decided to give a ball in her honor , and at some time during the evening of the ball to offer her his heart and hand . 
Mr. Ryder resolved that this ball should mark an epoch in the social history of Groveland . 
He knew , of course , no one could know better , the entertainments that had taken place in past years , and what must be done to surpass them . 
His ball must be worthy of the lady in whose honor it was to be given , and must , by the quality of its guests , set an example for the future . 
He had a theory of his own . 
I have no race prejudice , he would say , but we people of mixed blood are ground between the upper and the nether millstone . 
Our fate lies between absorption by the white race and extinction in the black . 
The one doesn't want us yet , but may take us in time . 
The other would welcome us , but it would be for us a backward step . 
'With malice towards none , with charity for all , we must do the best we can for ourselves and those who are to follow us . 
Self preservation is the first law of nature . 
The ball was to take place on Friday night . 
He expected to respond to the toast The Ladies , at the supper , and from a volume of Tennyson his favorite poet was fortifying himself with apt quotations . 
The volume was open at A Dream of Fair Women . 
His eyes fell on these lines , and he read them aloud to judge better of their effect At length I saw a lady within call . 
Stiller than chisell'd marble , standing there A daughter of the gods , divinely tall , And most divinely fair . 
He marked the verse , and turning the page read the stanza beginning , O sweet pale Margaret , O rare pale Margaret . 
He weighed the passage a moment , and decided that it would not do . 
Mrs. Dixon was the palest lady he expected at the ball , and she was of a rather ruddy complexion , and of lively disposition and buxom build . 
As Mr. Ryder murmured these words audibly , with an appreciative thrill , he heard the latch of his gate click , and a light footfall sounding on the steps . 
He turned his head , and saw a woman standing before the door . 
She was a little woman , not five feet tall , and proportioned to her height . 
And she was very black so black that her toothless gums , revealed when she opened her mouth to speak , were not red , but blue . 
He rose from his chair and came over to where she stood . 
Good afternoon , madam , he said . 
Good evenin' , suh , she answered , ducking suddenly with a quaint curtsy . 
Her voice was shrill and piping , but softened somewhat by age . 
Yes , he replied , with an air of kindly patronage , unconsciously flattered by her manner , I am Mr. Ryder . 
Did you want to see me ? Yas , suh , ef I ain't 'sturbin' of you too much . 
Have a seat over here behind the vine , where it is cool . 
There used to be many such cases right after the war , he said , but it has been so long that I have forgotten them . 
There are very few now . 
But tell me your story , and it may refresh my memory . 
She sat back farther in her chair so as to be more comfortable , and folded her withered hands in her lap . 
My name's 'Liza , she began , 'Liza Jane . 
Wen I wuz young I us'ter b'long ter Marse Bob Smif , down in old Missourn . 
I wuz bawn down dere . 
W'en I wuz a gal I wuz married ter a man named Jim . 
But Jim died , an' after dat I married a merlatter man named Sam Taylor . 
Sam wuz free bawn , but his mammy and daddy died , an' de w'ite folks 'prenticed him ter my marster fer ter work fer 'im 'tel he wuz growed up . 
Sam worked in de fiel' , an' I wuz de cook . 
One day Ma'y Ann , ole miss's maid , come rushin' out ter de kitchen , an' says she , ''Liza Jane , ole marse gwine sell yo' Sam down de ribber . 
'Go way f'm yere , says I 'my husban's free ! 'Don' make no diff'ence . 
W'en Sam come home f'm de fiel' , dat night , I tole him 'bout ole marse gwine steal 'im , an' Sam run erway . 
An' I know he'd 'a' done it , fer he thought a heap er me , Sam did . 
But w'en he come back he didn' fin' me , fer I wuzn' dere . 
Ole marse had heerd dat I warned Sam , so he had me whip' an' sol' down de ribber . 
Den de wah broke out , an' w'en it wuz ober de cullud folks wuz scattered . 
I went back ter de ole home but Sam wuzn' dere , an' I couldn' l'arn nuffin' 'bout 'im . 
But I knowed he'd be'n dere to look fer me an' hadn' foun' me , an' had gone erway ter hunt fer me . 
I's be'n lookin' fer 'im eber sence , she added simply , as though twenty five years were but a couple of weeks , an' I knows he's be'n lookin' fer me . 
I went back down de ribber , fer I 'lowed he'd gone down dere lookin' fer me . 
I's be'n ter Noo Orleens , an' Atlanty , an' Charleston , an' Richmon' an' w'en I'd be'n all ober de Souf I come ter de Norf . 
A smile stole over her withered countenance as she paused a moment , and her bright eyes softened into a far away look . 
This was the substance of the old woman's story . 
She had wandered a little here and there . 
Mr. Ryder was looking at her curiously when she finished . 
How have you lived all these years ? he asked . 
Does you know anybody w'at needs a good cook , suh ? I's stoppin' wid a cullud fam'ly roun' de corner yonder 'tel I kin fin' a place . 
Do you really expect to find your husband ? He may be dead long ago . 
She shook her head emphatically . 
Oh no , he ain' dead . 
De signs an' de tokens tells me . 
I dremp three nights runnin' on'y dis las' week dat I foun' him . 
He may have married another woman . 
Your slave marriage would not have prevented him , for you never lived with him after the war , and without that your marriage doesn't count . 
Wouldn' make no diff'ence wid Sam . 
He wouldn' marry no yuther 'ooman 'tel he foun' out 'bout me . 
I knows it , she added . 
Sump'n's be'n tellin' me all dese years dat I's gwine fin' Sam 'fo I dies . 
Perhaps he's outgrown you , and climbed up in the world where he wouldn't care to have you find him . 
No , indeed , suh , she replied , Sam ain' dat kin' er man . 
He wuz good ter me , Sam wuz , but he wuzn' much good ter nobody e'se , fer he wuz one er de triflin'es' han's on de plantation . 
I 'spec's ter haf ter suppo't 'im w'en I fin' 'im , fer he nebber would work 'less'n he had ter . 
But den he wuz free , an' he didn' git no pay fer his work , an' I don' blame 'im much . 
Mebbe he's done better sence he run erway , but I ain' 'spectin' much . 
You may have passed him on the street a hundred times during the twenty five years , and not have known him time works great changes . 
I'd know 'im 'mongs' a hund'ed men . 
Fer dey wuzn' no yuther merlatter man like my man Sam , an' I couldn' be mistook . 
I's toted his picture roun' wid me twenty five years . 
May I see it ? asked Mr. Ryder . 
It might help me to remember whether I have seen the original . 
As she drew a small parcel from her bosom , he saw that it was fastened to a string that went around her neck . 
Removing several wrappers , she brought to light an old fashioned daguerreotype in a black case . 
He looked long and intently at the portrait . 
It was faded with time , but the features were still distinct , and it was easy to see what manner of man it had represented . 
He closed the case , and with a slow movement handed it back to her . 
I don't know of any man in town who goes by that name , he said , nor have I heard of any one making such inquiries . 
But if you will leave me your address , I will give the matter some attention , and if I find out anything I will let you know . 
She gave him the number of a house in the neighborhood , and went away , after thanking him warmly . 
He wrote down the address on the flyleaf of the volume of Tennyson , and , when she had gone , rose to his feet and stood looking after her curiously . 
As she walked down the street with mincing step , he saw several persons whom she passed turn and look back at her with a smile of kindly amusement . 
A black servant in evening dress waited at the door and directed the guests to the dressing rooms . 
Most of the ladies were in evening costume , and dress coats and dancing pumps were the rule among the men . 
A band of string music , stationed in an alcove behind a row of palms , played popular airs while the guests were gathering . 
The dancing began at half past nine . 
At eleven o'clock supper was served . 
Mr. Ryder had left the ballroom some little time before the intermission , but reappeared at the supper table . 
The spread was worthy of the occasion , and the guests did full justice to it . 
When the coffee had been served , the toastmaster , Mr. Solomon Sadler , rapped for order . 
He made a brief introductory speech , complimenting host and guests , and then presented in their order the toasts of the evening . 
They were responded to with a very fair display of after dinner wit . 
The last toast , said the toast master , when he reached the end of the list , is one which must appeal to us all . 
Mr. Ryder will now respond to the toast , The Ladies . 
There was a pensive look in Mr. Ryder's eyes as he took the floor and adjusted his eyeglasses . 
History is full of examples , but has recorded none more striking than one which only to day came under my notice . 
He then related , simply but effectively , the story told by his visitor of the afternoon . 
He told it in the same soft dialect , which came readily to his lips , while the company listened attentively and sympathetically . 
For the story had awakened a responsive thrill in many hearts . 
Mr. Ryder went on Such devotion and such confidence are rare even among women . 
She came to me to day in the hope that I might be able to help her find this long lost husband . 
And when she was gone I gave my fancy rein , and imagined a case I will put to you . 
My friends , what would the man do ? I will suppose that he was one who loved honor , and tried to deal justly with all men . 
I will even carry the case further , and suppose that perhaps he had set his heart upon another , whom he had hoped to call his own . 
I tried to discuss it impartially . 
It suggested more than mere sympathy with an imaginary situation it seemed rather in the nature of a personal appeal . 
It was observed , too , that his look rested more especially upon Mrs. Dixon , with a mingled expression of renunciation and inquiry . 
She had listened , with parted lips and streaming eyes . 
She was the first to speak He should have acknowledged her . 
Yes , they all echoed , he should have acknowledged her . 
My friends and companions , responded Mr. Ryder , I thank you , one and all . 
It is the answer I expected , for I knew your hearts . 
He turned and walked toward the closed door of an adjoining room , while every eye followed him in wondering curiosity . 
He came back in a moment , leading by the hand his visitor of the afternoon , who stood startled and trembling at the sudden plunge into this scene of brilliant gayety . 
She was neatly dressed in gray , and wore the white cap of an elderly woman . 
Ladies and gentlemen , he said , this is the woman , and I am the man , whose story I have told you . 
Permit me to introduce to you the wife of my youth . 
THE BOUQUET by Charles W. Chesnutt Mary Myrover's friends were somewhat surprised when she began to teach a colored school . 
Miss Myrover's friends are mentioned here , because nowhere more than in a Southern town is public opinion a force which cannot be lightly contravened . 
Previous to that time there had been a Freedman's Bureau school and a Presbyterian missionary school , but these had been withdrawn when the need for them became less pressing . 
The colored people of the town had been for some time agitating their right to teach their own schools , but as yet the claim had not been conceded . 
But Mary Myrover belonged to one of the proudest of the old families . 
Her ancestors had been people of distinction in Virginia before a collateral branch of the main stock had settled in North Carolina . 
Before the war they had been able to live up to their pedigree . 
But the war brought sad changes . 
Miss Myrover's brother , too , had fallen in the conflict but his bones lay in some unknown trench , with those of a thousand others who had fallen on the same field . 
There had been a little left . 
Mrs. Myrover was thrifty , and had laid by a few hundred dollars , which she kept in the house to meet unforeseen contingencies . 
With their shrunken resources , Miss Myrover and her mother were able to hold up their heads without embarrassment for some years after the close of the war . 
Miss Myrover looked over the field of employment , never very wide for women in the South , and found it occupied . 
Even teaching was a doubtful experiment it was not what she would have preferred , but it was the best that could be done . 
I don't like it , Mary , said her mother . 
It's a long step from owning such people to teaching them . 
What do they need with education ? It will only make them unfit for work . 
They're free now , mother , and perhaps they'll work better if they're taught something . 
Besides , it's only a business arrangement , and doesn't involve any closer contact than we have with our servants . 
Well , I should say not ! sniffed the old lady . 
Not one of them will ever dare to presume on your position to take any liberties with us . 
Miss Myrover began her work as a teacher in the autumn , at the opening of the school year . 
It was a novel experience at first . 
The work was unfamiliar to her . 
She was not physically very strong , and at the close of the first day she went home with a splitting headache . 
If she could have resigned then and there without causing comment or annoyance to others , she would have felt it a privilege to do so . 
But a night's rest banished her headache and improved her spirits , and the next morning she went to her work with renewed vigor , fortified by the experience of the first day . 
Miss Myrover's second day was more satisfactory . 
She had some natural talent for organization , though she had never known it , and in the course of the day she got her classes formed and lessons under way . 
When she was fairly broken in she found the work rather to her liking , and derived much pleasure from such success as she achieved as a teacher . 
It was natural that she should be more attracted to some of her pupils than to others . 
Perhaps her favorite or rather , the one she liked best , for she was too fair and just for conscious favoritism was Sophy Tucker . 
Just the ground for the teacher's liking for Sophy might not at first be apparent . 
The girl was far from the whitest of Miss Myrover's pupils in fact , she was one of the darker ones . 
She was not the brightest in intellect , though she always tried to learn her lessons . 
She was not the best dressed , for her mother was a poor widow , who went out washing and scrubbing for a living . 
Perhaps the real tie between them was Sophy's intense devotion to the teacher . 
It had manifested itself almost from the first day of the school , in the rapt look of admiration Miss Myrover always saw on the little black face turned toward her . 
Miss Myrover was fond of flowers , and liked to have them about her . 
The children soon learned of this taste of hers , and kept the vases on her desk filled with blossoms during their season . 
Sophy was perhaps the most active in providing them . 
When I die , Sophy , Miss Myrover said to the child one day , I want to be covered with roses . 
And when they bury me , I'm sure I shall rest better if my grave is banked with flowers , and roses are planted at my head and at my feet . 
Miss Myrover was at first amused at Sophy's devotion but when she grew more accustomed to it , she found it rather to her liking . 
She was kind to Sophy , and permitted her to play the role she had assumed , which caused sometimes a little jealousy among the other girls . 
Once she gave Sophy a yellow ribbon which she took from her own hair . 
The child carried it home , and cherished it as a priceless treasure , to be worn only on the greatest occasions . 
Sophy had a rival in her attachment to the teacher , but the rivalry was altogether friendly . 
Miss Myrover had a little dog , a white spaniel , answering to the name of Prince . 
He was a clever dog , and could fetch and carry , sit up on his haunches , extend his paw to shake hands , and possessed several other canine accomplishments . 
At school Sophy and Prince vied with each other in their attentions to Miss Myrover . 
But when school was over , Prince went away with her , and Sophy stayed behind for Miss Myrover was white and Sophy was black , which they both understood perfectly well . 
Miss Myrover taught the colored children , but she could not be seen with them in public . 
If they occasionally met her on the street , they did not expect her to speak to them , unless she happened to be alone and no other white person was in sight . 
Once Miss Myrover wished to carry home a parcel of books . 
She had the bundle in her hand when Sophy came up . 
Lemme tote yo' bundle fer yer , Miss Ma'y ? she asked eagerly . 
Thank you , Sophy , was the reply . 
I'll be glad if you will . 
Sophy followed the teacher at a respectful distance . 
When they reached Miss Myrover's home Sophy carried the bundle to the doorstep , where Miss Myrover took it and thanked her . 
Mrs. Myrover came out on the piazza as Sophy was moving away . 
She said , in the child's hearing , and perhaps with the intention that she should hear Mary , I wish you wouldn't let those little darkies follow you to the house . 
I don't want them in the yard . 
I should think you'd have enough of them all day . 
Very well , mother , replied her daughter . 
I won't bring any more of them . 
The child was only doing me a favor . 
She did not bring Sophy to the house again , nor did Sophy again offer her services as porter . 
One day in spring Sophy brought her teacher a bouquet of yellow roses . 
I'm gwine bring 'em all ter you as long as dey las' . 
Thank you , Sophy , said the teacher you are a very good girl . 
For another year Mary Myrover taught the colored school , and did excellent service . 
Toward the end of her second year she sickened , and after a brief illness died . 
Old Mrs. Myrover was inconsolable . 
She ascribed her daughter's death to her labors as teacher of negro children . 
Just how the color of the pupils had produced the fatal effects she did not stop to explain . 
I always feared something would happen to Mary , she said . 
It seemed unnatural for her to be wearing herself out teaching little negroes who ought to have been working for her . 
She gave strict orders that no colored people should be admitted to the house . 
Some of her friends heard of this , and remonstrated . 
They knew the teacher was loved by the pupils , and felt that sincere respect from the humble would be a worthy tribute to the proudest . 
But Mrs. Myrover was obdurate . 
They had my daughter when she was alive , she said , and they've killed her . 
But she's mine now , and I won't have them come near her . 
I don't want one of them at the funeral or anywhere around . 
But not until her teacher's death had they become full blown roses . 
When Miss Myrover died , Sophy determined to pluck the roses and lay them on her coffin . 
Perhaps , she thought , they might even put them in her hand or on her breast . 
For Sophy remembered Miss Myrover's thanks and praise when she had brought her the yellow roses the spring before . 
She went round to the side gate the house stood on a corner and stole up the path to the kitchen . 
A colored woman , whom she did not know , came to the door . 
W'at yer want , chile ? she inquired . 
Kin I see Miss Ma'y ? asked Sophy timidly . 
I don' know , honey . 
Ole Miss Myrover say she don' want no cullud folks roun' de house endyoin' dis fun'al . 
I'll look an' see if she's roun' de front room , whar de co'pse is . 
You sed down heah an' keep still , an' ef she's upstairs maybe I kin git yer in dere a minute . 
Ef I can't , I kin put yo' bokay 'mongs' de res' , whar she won't know nuthin' erbout it . 
A moment after she had gone there was a step in the hall , and old Mrs. Myrover came into the kitchen . 
Dinah ! she said in a peevish tone . 
Dinah ! Receiving no answer , Mrs. Myrover peered around the kitchen , and caught sight of Sophy . 
What are you doing here ? she demanded . 
I I'm m waitin' ter see de cook , ma'am , stammered Sophy . 
The cook isn't here now . 
I don't know where she is . 
Besides , my daughter is to be buried to day , and I won't have any one visiting the servants until the funeral is over . 
Come back some other day , or see the cook at her own home in the evening . 
Dinah , said Mrs. Myrover , when the cook came back , I don't want any strange people admitted here to day . 
The house will be full of our friends , and we have no room for others . 
Yas'm , said the cook . 
She understood perfectly what her mistress meant and what the cook thought about her mistress was a matter of no consequence . 
The funeral services were held at St . 
John's Episcopal Church , where the Myrovers had always worshiped . 
Quite a number of Miss Myrover's pupils went to the church to attend the services . 
The church was not a large one . 
I'm sorry , he said , but I have had orders to admit no one until the friends of the family have all been seated . 
If you wish to wait until the white people have all gone in , and there's any room left , you may be able to get into the back part of the gallery . 
Of course I can't tell yet whether there'll be any room or not . 
Now the statement of the usher was a very reasonable one but , strange to say , none of the colored people chose to remain except Sophy . 
She still hoped to use her floral offering for its destined end , in some way , though she did not know just how . 
She waited in the yard until the church was filled with white people , and a number who could not gain admittance were standing about the doors . 
The window was of stained glass , of somewhat ancient make . 
The church was old , had indeed been built in colonial times , and the stained glass had been brought from England . 
The design of the window showed Jesus blessing little children . 
Time had dealt gently with the window but just at the feet of the figure of Jesus a small triangular piece of glass had been broken out . 
To this aperture Sophy applied her eyes , and through it saw and heard what she could of the services within . 
Before the chancel , on trestles draped in black , stood the sombre casket in which lay all that was mortal of her dear teacher . 
The top of the casket was covered with flowers and lying stretched out underneath it she saw Miss Myrover's little white dog , Prince . 
He had followed the body to the church , and , slipping in unnoticed among the mourners , had taken his place , from which no one had the heart to remove him . 
When the services were over , Sophy sprang down from her perch , and , taking her flowers , followed the procession . 
She did not walk with the rest , but at a proper and respectful distance from the last mourner . 
No one noticed the little black girl with the bunch of yellow flowers , or thought of her as interested in the funeral . 
The cortege reached the cemetery and filed slowly through the gate but Sophy stood outside , looking at a small sign in white letters on a black background NOTICE . 
This cemetery is for white people only . 
Sophy , thanks to Miss Myrover's painstaking instruction , could read this sign very distinctly . 
In fact , she had often read it before . 
Since that time the cemetery gate had been locked at night . 
So Sophy stayed outside , and looked through the fence . 
Her poor bouquet had begun to droop by this time , and the yellow ribbon had lost some of its freshness . 
Sophy could see the rector standing by the grave , the mourners gathered round she could faintly distinguish the solemn words with which ashes were committed to ashes , and dust to dust . 
When the mourners began to move toward the gate , Sophy walked slowly down the street , in a direction opposite to that taken by most of the people who came out . 
When they had all gone away , and the sexton had come out and locked the gate behind him , Sophy crept back . 
Her roses were faded now , and from some of them the petals had fallen . 
Sophy's eyes lighted up with a sudden glow . 
Prince ! Here , Prince ! she called . 
The little dog rose , and trotted down to the gate . 
Sophy pushed the poor bouquet between the iron bars . 
Take that ter Miss Ma'y , Prince , she said , that's a good doggie . 
The dog wagged his tail intelligently , took the bouquet carefully in his mouth , carried it to his mistress's grave , and laid it among the other flowers . 
The bunch of roses was so small that from where she stood Sophy could see only a dash of yellow against the white background of the mass of flowers . 
When Prince had performed his mission he turned his eyes toward Sophy inquiringly , and when she gave him a nod of approval lay down and resumed his watch by the graveside . 
Sophy looked at him a moment with a feeling very much like envy , and then turned and moved slowly away . 
The next census will probably show that we have nearly ten million black people in the United States , about eight millions of whom are in the Southern states . 
In fact , we have almost a nation within a nation . 
The Negro population in the United States lacks but two millions of being as large as the whole population of Mexico , and is nearly twice as large as that of Canada . 
Our black people equal in number the combined populations of Switzerland , Greece , Honduras , Nicaragua , Cuba , Uraguay sic , Santo Domingo , Paraguay , and Costa Rica . 
At most , even if the government were to provide the means , but a few hundred thousand could be transported each year . 
The yearly increase in population would more than likely overbalance the number transported . 
Even if it did not , the time required to get rid of the Negro by this method would perhaps be fifty or seventy five years . 
Some have advised that the Negro leave the South , and take up his residence in the Northern states . 
I question whether this would make him any better off than he is in the South , when all things are considered . 
Another point of great danger for the colored man who goes North is the matter of morals , owing to the numerous temptations by which he finds himself surrounded . 
More ways offer in which he can spend money than in the South , but fewer avenues of employment for earning money are open to him . 
The only conclusion which any one can reach , from this and like instances , is that the Negroes are to remain in the Southern states . 
As a race they do not want to leave the South , and the Southern white people do not want them to leave . 
We must therefore find some basis of settlement that will be constitutional , just , manly that will be fair to both races in the South and to the whole country . 
This cannot be done in a day , a year , or any short period of time . 
We can , however , with the present light , decide upon a reasonably safe method of solving the problem , and turn our strength and effort in that direction . 
In doing this , I would not have the Negro deprived of any privilege guaranteed to him by the Constitution of the United States . 
But I wish first to mention some elements of danger in the present situation , which all who desire the permanent welfare of both races in the South should carefully take into account . 
We must not fall into the temptation of believing that we can raise ourselves by abusing some one else . 
No race or people ever got upon its feet without severe and constant struggle , often in the face of the greatest discouragement . 
Every possible influence should be exerted to prevent this . 
At no time , in no place , is the white woman safe from the insults and assaults of these creatures . 
In judging the Negro we must not be too harsh . 
That perfection has not been reached in one generation , with the obstacles that the parents have been compelled to overcome , is not to be wondered at . 
Such legislation injures and retards the progress of both races . 
It is an injustice to the poor white man , because it takes from him incentive to secure education and property as prerequisites for voting . 
He feels that because he is a white man , regardless of his possessions , a way will be found for him to vote . 
I would label all such measures laws to keep the poor white man in ignorance and poverty . 
The Talladega News Reporter , a Democratic newspaper of Alabama , recently said But it is a weak cry when the white man asks odds on intelligence over the Negro . 
When nature has already so handicapped the African in the race for knowledge , the cry of the boasted Anglo Saxon for still further odds seems babyish . 
And why not ? No the thing to do the only thing that will stand the test of time is to do right , exactly right , let come what will . 
Nothing short of this will do . 
Every exemption , on whatsoever ground , is an outrage that can only rob some legitimate voter of his rights . 
Such laws are hurtful , again , because they keep alive in the heart of the black man the feeling that the white man means to oppress him . 
The only safe way out is to set a high standard as a test of citizenship , and require blacks and whites alike to come up to it . 
When this is done , both will have a higher respect for the election laws , and for those who make them . 
Such a policy has proved very hurtful to both races . 
Where it is a matter of principle , where a question of right or wrong is involved , I would advise the Negro to stand by principle at all hazards . 
Now as to the policy that should be pursued . 
On this subject I claim to possess no superior wisdom or unusual insight . 
I may be wrong I may be in some degree right . 
In no other way , it seems to me , can we get a foundation for peace and progress . 
He who advises against this policy will advise the Negro to do that which no people in history , who have succeeded , have done . 
The white man , North or South , who advises the Negro against it advises him to do that which he himself has not done . 
There is at present no other safe course for the black man to pursue . 
Our object is to obtain fair play for the Outlanders , but the best way to do it is to enable them to help themselves . 
This policy , I think , is equally safe when applied to conditions in the South . 
The foreigner who comes to America identifies himself as soon as possible , in business , education , and politics , with the community in which he settles . 
The Negro in Cuba has practically settled the race question there , because he has made himself a part of Cuba in thought and action . 
What I have tried to indicate cannot be accomplished by any sudden revolution of methods , but it does seem that the tendency should be more and more in this direction . 
Let me emphasize this by a practical example . 
The North sends thousands of dollars into the South every year for the education of the Negro . 
The teachers in most of the Southern schools supported by the North are Northern men and women of the highest Christian culture and most unselfish devotion . 
The Negro owes them a debt of gratitude which can never be paid . 
Can this be done ? Yes . 
This gives the people of Raleigh the feeling that the school is theirs , and not something located in , but not a part of , the South . 
In Augusta , Georgia , the Payne Institute , one of the best colleges for our people , is officered and taught almost wholly by Southern white men and women . 
The Presbyterian Theological School at Tuscaloosa , Alabama , has only Southern white men as instructors . 
In all history , those who have possessed the property and intelligence have exercised the greatest control in government , regardless of color , race , or geographical location . 
To bring this about , the Negro must begin at the bottom and lay a sure foundation , and not be lured by any temptation into trying to rise on a false footing . 
While the Negro is laying this foundation , he will need help and sympathy and justice from the law . 
Progress by any other method will be but temporary and superficial , and the end of it will be worse than the beginning . 
Under slavery , the Negro was taught every trade , every industry , that furnishes the means of earning a living . 
Let me be more specific . 
Agriculture is or has been the basic industry of nearly every race or nation that has succeeded . 
The Negro got a knowledge of this under slavery hence in a large measure he is in possession of this industry in the South to day . 
Taking the whole South , I should say that eighty per cent of the Negroes live by agriculture in some form , though it is often a very primitive and crude form . 
The Negro can buy land in the South , as a rule , wherever the white man can buy it , and at very low prices . 
It is better to show a man how to make a place for himself than to put him in one that some one else has made for him . 
I know a Negro , Hon . 
Isaiah T. Montgomery , in Mississippi , who is mayor of a town it is true that the town is composed almost wholly of Negroes . 
Let us help the Negro by every means possible to acquire such an education in farming , dairying , stock raising , horticulture , etc . 
The race , like the individual , which produces something of superior worth that has a common human interest , wins a permanent place , and is bound to be recognized . 
In a material sense the South is still an undeveloped country . 
While in some other affairs race prejudice is strongly marked , in the matter of business , of commercial and industrial development , there are few obstacles in the Negro's way . 
A Negro who produces or has for sale something that the community wants finds customers among white people as well as black . 
Upon equal security , a Negro can borrow money at the bank as readily as a white man can . 
A bank in Birmingham , Alabama , which has existed ten years , is officered and controlled wholly by Negroes . 
This bank has white borrowers and white depositors . 
A graduate of the Tuskegee Institute keeps a well appointed grocery store in Tuskegee , and he tells me that he sells about as many goods to one race as to the other . 
What I have said of the opening that awaits the Negro in the business of agriculture is almost equally true of mechanics , manufacturing , and all the domestic arts . 
The field is before him and right about him . 
The architect or contractor would not only receive support , but through his example numbers of young colored men would learn such trades as carpentry , brickmasonry , plastering , painting , etc . 
But I may be asked , Would you confine the Negro to agriculture , mechanics , the domestic arts , etc . 
? Not at all but just now and for a number of years the stress should be laid along the lines that I have mentioned . 
No race can permanently succeed until its mind is awakened and strengthened by the ripest thought . 
Frederick Douglass , of sainted memory , once , in addressing his race , used these words We are to prove that we can better our own condition . 
One way to do this is to accumulate property . 
This may sound to you like a new gospel . 
You have been accustomed to hear that money is the root of all evil , etc . 
The Negro should be taught that material development is not an end , but merely a means to an end . 
As professor W. E. B. Du Bois puts it , the idea should not be simply to make men carpenters , but to make carpenters men . 
Equally does he need to be taught to put so much intelligence into his labor that he will see dignity and beauty in the occupation , and love it for its own sake . 
The Negro needs to be taught to apply more of the religion that manifests itself in his happiness in prayer meeting to the performance of his daily task . 
Much will depend upon the sense of justice which can be kept alive in the breast of the American people almost as much will depend upon the good sense of the Negro himself . 
That question , I confess , does not give me the most concern just now . 
Time , patience , and constant achievement are great factors in the rise of a race . 
I was walking the street of a certain town in the South lately in company with the most prominent Negro there . 
But a short time ago I read letters from nearly every prominent white man in Birmingham , Alabama , asking that the Rev . 
W. R. Pettiford , a Negro , be appointed to a certain important federal office . 
What is the explanation of this ? For nine years Mr. Pettiford has been the president of the Negro bank in Birmingham , to which I have alluded . 
Such individual examples will have to be multiplied , till they become more nearly the rule than the exception they now are . 
While we are multiplying these examples , the Negro must keep a strong and courageous heart . 
He cannot improve his condition by any short cut course or by artificial methods . 
An important question often asked is , Does the white man in the South want the Negro to improve his present condition ? I say yes . 
Daily Advertiser I clip the following in reference to the closing of a colored school in a town in Alabama EUFALA , May , . 
The closing exercises of the city colored public school were held at St . 
Luke's A. M. E. Church last night , and were witnessed by a large gathering , including many whites . 
The recitations by the pupils were excellent , and the music was also an interesting feature . 
R. T. Pollard delivered the address , which was quite an able one , and the certificates were presented by Professor T. L. McCoy , white , of the Sanford Street School . 
The success of the exercises reflects great credit on Professor S. M. Murphy , the principal , who enjoys a deserved good reputation as a capable and efficient educator . 
The Southern white Presbyterians support a theological school for Negroes at Tuscaloosa . 
For a number of years the Southern white Baptists have contributed toward Negro education . 
Other denominations have done the same . 
If these people do not want the Negro educated to a higher standard , there is no reason why they should pretend they do . 
I quote from the address of the Rev . 
I have a right to speak on the subject , and I propose to be heard . 
The time has come for every lover of the South to set the might of an angered and resolute manhood against the shame and peril of the lynch demon . 
These people whose fiendish glee taunts their victim as his flesh crackles in the flames do not represent the South . 
I have not a syllable of apology for the sickening crime they meant to avenge . 
But it is high time we were learning that lawlessness is no remedy for crime . 
If we go on making progress in the directions that I have tried to indicate , more and more the South will be drawn to one course . 
This would put upon the South a burden under which no government could stand and prosper . 
Every article in our Federal Constitution was placed there with a view of stimulating and encouraging the highest type of citizenship . 
In other ways than this the injury would be as great to the white man as to the Negro . 
The more the Negro is stimulated and encouraged , the sooner will he be able to bear a larger share of the burdens of the South . 
As I have said elsewhere There is no escape , through law of man or God , from the inevitable . 
'The laws of changeless justice bind Oppressor with oppressed And close as sin and suffering joined We march to fate abreast . 
Nearly sixteen millions of hands will aid you in pulling the load upwards , or they will pull the load downwards against you . 
The industrial development of the Negro in connection with education and Christian character will help to hasten this end . 
I do not suffer myself to take too optimistic a view of the conditions in the South . 
But I believe that if the principles which I have tried to indicate are followed , a solution of the question will come . 
I had been dozing in my hammock on the front piazza , behind the honeysuckle vine . 
The girl , I knew , was quite as high spirited as young Murchison . 
I feared she was not so just , and hoped she would prove more yielding . 
I knew that her affections were strong and enduring , but that her temperament was capricious , and her sunniest moods easily overcast by some small cloud of jealousy or pique . 
I had never imagined , however , that she was capable of such intensity as was revealed by these few words of hers . 
As I say , I felt concerned . 
The match thus rudely broken off had promised to be another link binding me to the kindly Southern people among whom I had not long before taken up my residence . 
Young Murchison came out of the door , cleared the piazza in two strides without seeming aware of my presence , and went off down the lane at a furious pace . 
I hoped that time might heal the breach and bring the two young people together again . 
I told my wife what I had overheard . 
In return she gave me Mabel's version of the affair . 
I do not see how it can ever be settled , my wife said . 
It is something more than a mere lovers' quarrel . 
It began , it is true , because she found fault with him for going to church with that hateful Branson girl . 
But before it ended there were things said that no woman of any spirit could stand . 
I am afraid it is all over between them . 
I was sorry to hear this . 
In spite of the very firm attitude taken by my wife and her sister , I still hoped that the quarrel would be made up within a day or two . 
Nevertheless , when a week had passed with no word from young Murchison , and with no sign of relenting on Mabel's part , I began to think myself mistaken . 
Which way shall we go , I asked , the short road or the long one ? I guess we had better take the short road , answered my wife . 
We will get there sooner . 
It's a mighty fine dribe roun' by de big road , Mis' Annie , observed Julius , en it doan take much longer to git dere . 
No , said my wife , I think we will go by the short road . 
There is a bay tree in blossom near the mineral spring , and I wish to get some of the flowers . 
I 'spec's you'd find some bay trees 'long de big road , ma'am , said Julius . 
But I know about the flowers on the short road , and they are the ones I want . 
We drove down the lane to the highway , and soon struck into the short road leading past the mineral spring . 
When I resumed my seat in the rockaway , Julius started the mare . 
She went on for a few rods , until we had reached the edge of a branch crossing the road , when she stopped short . 
Why did you stop , Julius ? I asked . 
I didn' , suh , he replied . 
'T wuz de mare stop' . 
G' 'long dere , Lucy ! W'at you mean by dis foolis'ness ? Julius jerked the reins and applied the whip lightly , but the mare did not stir . 
Perhaps you had better get down and lead her , I suggested . 
If you get her started , you can cross on the log and keep your feet dry . 
Julius alighted , took hold of the bridle , and vainly essayed to make the mare move . 
She planted her feet with even more evident obstinacy . 
I don't know what to make of this , I said . 
I have never known her to balk before . 
Have you , Julius ? No , suh , replied the old man , I nebber has . 
It's a cu'ous thing ter me , suh . 
What's the best way to make her go ? I 'spec's , suh , dat ef I'd tu'n her roun' she'd go de udder way . 
But we want her to go this way . 
Well , suh , I 'low ef we des set heah fo' er fibe minutes , she'll sta't up by herse'f . 
All right , I rejoined , it is cooler here than any place I have struck to day . 
We'll let her stand for a while , and see what she does . 
We had sat in silence for a few minutes , when Julius suddenly ejaculated , Uh huh ! I knows w'y dis mare doan go . 
It des flash 'cross my reccommemb'ance . 
Why is it , Julius ? I inquired . 
Where is Chloe ? I demanded . 
Chloe's done be'n dead dese fo'ty years er mo' , the old man returned . 
Her ha'nt is settin' ober yander on de udder side er de branch , unner dat willer tree , dis blessed minute . 
Why , Julius ! said my wife , do you see the haunt ? No'm , he answered , shaking his head , I doan see 'er , but de mare sees 'er . 
How do you know ? I inquired . 
Well , suh , dis yer is a gray hoss , en dis yer is a Friday en a gray hoss kin alluz see a ha'nt w'at walks on Friday . 
Who was Chloe ? said Mabel . 
And why does Chloe's haunt walk ? asked my wife . 
It's all in de tale , ma'am , Julius replied , with a deep sigh . 
It's all in de tale . 
Tell us the tale , I said . 
Perhaps , by the time you get through , the haunt will go away and the mare will cross . 
I was willing to humor the old man's fancy . 
Chloe , Julius began in a subdued tone , use' ter b'long ter ole Mars' Dugal' McAdoo my ole marster . 
I wuz a young boy den , en use' ter wuk about de stables , so I knowed ev'ythin' dat wuz gwine on roun' de plantation . 
Well , one time Mars' Dugal' wanted a house boy , en sont down ter de qua'ters fer hab Jeff en Hannibal come up ter de big house nex' mawnin' . 
Heah , Hannibal , you'll wuk at de house fum now on . 
En ef you're a good nigger en min's yo' bizness , I'll gib you Chloe fer a wife nex' spring . 
You other nigger , you Jeff , you kin go back ter de qua'ters . 
We ain' gwine ter need you . 
He wuz peart en soopl' , quick ez lightnin' , en sha'p ez a razor . 
But Chloe didn' lak his ways . 
You gwine ter be mine in de spring . 
You doan 'pear ter be ez fon' er me ez you oughter be . 
Aun' Peggy tol' 'im she'd wuk 'er roots , en fer 'im ter come back de nex' night , en she'd tell 'im w'at she c'd do fer 'im . 
'Dis yer baby doll , sez she , 'is Hannibal . 
Dis yer peth head is Hannibal's head , en dese yer pepper feet is Hannibal's feet . 
You take dis en hide it unner de house , on de sill unner de do' , whar Hannibal'll hafter walk ober it ev'y day . 
En Chloe showed 'im how ter git unner de house , en w'en he had put de cunjuh doll on de sill he went 'long back ter de qua'ters en des waited . 
Nex' day , sho' 'nuff , de goopher 'mence' ter wuk . 
De nex' mawnin' he overslep' hisse'f , en got inter mo' trouble . 
Atter breakfus' , Mars' Dugal' sont 'im ober ter Mars' Marrabo Utley's fer ter borry a monkey wrench . 
He oughter be'n back in ha'f an hour , but he come pokin' home 'bout dinner'time wid a screw driver stidder a monkey wrench . 
Mars' Dugal' sont ernudder nigger back wid de screw driver , en Hannibal didn' git no dinner . 
But w'at Hannibal got fum de oberseah didn' 'pear ter do no good . 
You's had 'casion ter deal wid 'im once , so he knows w'at ter expec' . 
You des take 'im in han' , en lemme know how he tu'ns out . 
En w'en de han's comes in fum de fiel' dis ebenin' you kin sen' dat yaller nigger Jeff up ter de house . 
I'll try 'im , en see ef he's any better'n Hannibal . 
Now , dis yer Hannibal was a monst'us sma't nigger , en w'en he got rid er dem so' feet his min' kep' runnin' on 'is udder troubles . 
En de mo' Hannibal studied 'bout it de mo' madder he got , 'tel he fin'ly swo' he wuz gwine ter git eben wid Jeff en Chloe ef it wuz de las' ac' . 
So Hannibal slipped 'way fum de qua'ters one Sunday en hid in de co'n up close ter de big house , 'tel he see Chloe gwine down de road . 
'I 'lows dat's none er yo' bizness , nigger . 
I doan see w'at 'casion any common fiel' han' has got ter mix in wid de 'fairs er folks w'at libs in de big house . 
'No , no ! sezee , 'I wouldn' 'spec' ter be 'vited ter de weddin' , a common , low down fiel' han' lak I is . 
But I's glad ter heah you en Jeff is gittin' 'long so well . 
I didn' knowed but w'at he had 'mence' ter be a little ti'ed . 
'Ti'ed er me ? Dat's rediklus ! sez Chloe . 
'W'y , dat nigger lubs me so I b'liebe he'd go th'oo fier en water fer me . 
Dat nigger is des wrop' up in me . 
'Yas , hit is ernudder nigger , en you is a liah w'en you say it wuz Jeff . 
'Mebbe I is a liah , en mebbe I ain' got good eyes . 
Well , Chloe tol' Hannibal she didn' b'liebe a wud he said , en call' 'im a low down nigger who wuz tryin' ter slander Jeff 'ca'se he wuz mo' luckier'n he wuz . 
But all de same , she couldn' keep her min' fum runnin' on w'at Hannibal had said . 
She 'membered she'd heared one er de niggers say dey wuz a gal ober at Mars' Marrabo Utley's plantation w'at Jeff use' ter go wid some befo' he got 'quainted wid Chloe . 
En den she 'mence' ter 'member little things w'at she hadn' tuk no notice of befo' , en w'at 'u'd make it 'pear lak Jeff had sump'n on his min' . 
Chloe set a monst'us heap er sto' by Jeff , en would 'a' done mos' anythin' fer 'im , so long ez he stuck ter her . 
En ev'y now en den he'd git up en look up de road to'ds Mars' Marrabo's on de udder side er de swamp . 
Fus' Chloe felt lak she'd go right ober de crick en gib Jeff a piece er her min' . 
Den she 'lowed she better be sho' befo' she done anythin' . 
Mars' Dugal' wuz monst'us mad . 
He didn' let on at fus' lak he b'liebed Chloe , but w'en she tuk en showed 'im whar ter fin' de baby doll , Mars' Dugal' tu'nt w'ite ez chalk . 
'What debil's wuk is dis ? sezee . 
'No wonder de po' nigger's feet eetched . 
Sump'n got ter be done ter l'arn dat ole witch ter keep her han's off'n my niggers . 
En ez fer dis yer Jeff , I'm gwine ter do des w'at I promus' , so de darkies on dis plantation'll know I means w'at I sez . 
En wi'les Mars' Dugal' say he didn' b'liebe in cunj'in' en sich , he 'peared ter 'low it wuz bes' ter be on de safe side , en let Aun' Peggy alone . 
So Mars' Dugal' done des ez he say . 
Ef ole mis' had ple'd fer Jeff he mought 'a' kep' 'im . 
But ole mis' hadn' got ober losin' dem bulbs yit , en she nebber said a wud . 
Now , w'en Chloe tol' ole Mars' Dugal' 'bout dis yer baby doll en dis udder goopher , she hadn' ha'dly 'lowed Mars' Dugal' would sell Jeff down Souf . 
Howsomeber , she wuz so mad wid Jeff dat she 'suaded herse'f she didn' keer en so she hilt her head up en went roun' lookin' lak she wuz rale glad 'bout it . 
But one day she wuz walkin' down de road , w'en who sh'd come 'long but dis yer Hannibal . 
I ain' nebber laf' so much sence I be'n bawn . 
Chloe tu'nt pale , en her hea't come up in her mouf . 
'W'at you mean , nigger ? sez she , ketchin' holt er a bush by de road fer ter stiddy herse'f . 
En now I reckon you en Jeff bofe knows w'at it means ter mess wid a nigger lak me . 
W'en she did , she crep' up ter de house des ez pale ez a ghos' . 
W'en he tol' Mars' Dugal' , Mars' Dugal' lafft , en said he'd fix dat . 
She could hab de noo house boy fer a husban' . 
But ole mis' say , no , Chloe ain' dat kinder gal , en dat Mars' Dugal' should buy Jeff back . 
Chloe 'mence' ter pick up a little w'en ole mis' tol' her 'bout dis letter . 
Well , atter Chloe heared dis she pu'tended ter do her wuk , en ole mis' wa'n't much mo' use ter nobody . 
But dey didn' none un 'em do no good . 
There was silence when the old man had finished , and I am sure I saw a tear in my wife's eye , and more than one in Mabel's . 
I think , Julius , said my wife after a moment , that you may turn the mare around and go by the long road . 
The old man obeyed with alacrity , and I noticed no reluctance on the mare's part . 
You are not afraid of Chloe's haunt , are you ? I asked jocularly . 
My mood was not responded to , and neither of the ladies smiled . 
Oh no , said Annie , but I've changed my mind . 
I prefer the other route . 
We recognized the man as Malcolm Murchison's servant , and drew up a moment to speak to him . 
Who's going away , Marshall ? I inquired . 
Young Mistah Ma'colm gwine 'way on de boat ter Noo Yo'k dis ebenin' , suh , en I'm takin' his things down ter de wharf , suh . 
This was news to me , and I heard it with regret . 
My wife looked sorry , too , and I could see that Mabel was trying hard to hide her concern . 
He's comin' 'long behin' , suh , en I 'spec's you'll meet 'im up de road a piece . 
He's gwine ter walk down ez fur ez Mistah Jim Williams's , en take de buggy fum dere ter town . 
He 'spec's ter be gone a long time , suh , en say prob'ly he ain' nebber comin' back . 
There were a few words exchanged in an undertone between my wife and Mabel , which I did not catch . 
Then Annie said Julius , you may stop the rockaway a moment . 
There are some trumpet flowers by the road there that I want . 
Will you get them for me , John ? I sprang into the underbrush , and soon returned with a great bunch of scarlet blossoms . 
Where is Mabel ? I asked , noting her absence . 
She has walked on ahead . 
We shall overtake her in a few minutes . 
The carriage had gone only a short distance when my wife discovered that she had dropped her fan . 
I had it where we were stopping . 
Julius , will you go back and get it for me ? Julius got down and went back for the fan . 
He was an unconscionably long time finding it . 
After we got started again we had gone only a little way , when we saw Mabel and young Murchison coming toward us . 
They were walking arm in arm , and their faces were aglow with the light of love . 
He was fond of Mabel , but I was old enough , and knew Julius well enough , to be skeptical of his motives . 
For some reason or other , however , he preferred to remain with us . 
The mare , I might add , was never known to balk again . 
Young and happy , I too went , and I shall not soon forget that summer , ten years ago . 
A picnic now and then , and a supper , and the rough world was softened by laughter and song . 
I remember how But I wander . 
There came a day when all the teachers left the Institute , and began the hunt for schools . 
Sprinkled over hill and dale lay cabins and farmhouses , shut out from the world by the forests and the rolling hills toward the east . 
There I found at last a little school . 
Josie told me of it she was a thin , homely girl of twenty , with a dark brown face and thick , hard hair . 
It was a dull frame cottage with four rooms , perched just below the brow of the hill , amid peach trees . 
The father was a quiet , simple soul , calmly ignorant , with no touch of vulgarity . 
The mother was different , strong , bustling , and energetic , with a quick , restless tongue , and an ambition to live like folks . 
There was a crowd of children . 
Two boys had gone away . 
There remained two growing girls a shy midget of eight John , tall , awkward , and eighteen Jim , younger , quicker , and better looking and two babies of indefinite age . 
Then there was Josie herself . 
I saw much of this family afterward , and grew to love them for their honest efforts to be decent and comfortable , and for their knowledge of their own ignorance . 
There was with them no affectation . 
I remember the day I rode horseback out to the commissioner's house , with a pleasant young white fellow , who wanted the white school . 
The road ran down the bed of a stream the sun laughed and the water jingled , and we rode on . 
Come in , said the commissioner , come in . 
Yes , that certificate will do . 
The schoolhouse was a log hut , where Colonel Wheeler used to shelter his corn . 
It sat in a lot behind a rail fence and thorn bushes , near the sweetest of springs . 
There was an entrance where a door once was , and within , a massive rickety fireplace great chinks between the logs served as windows . 
A pale blackboard crouched in the corner . 
My desk was made of three boards , reinforced at critical points , and my chair , borrowed from the landlady , had to be returned every night . 
Seats for the children , these puzzled me much . 
I was haunted by a New England vision of neat little desks and chairs , but , alas , the reality was rough plank benches without backs , and at times without legs . 
They had the one virtue of making naps dangerous , possibly fatal , for the floor was not to be trusted . 
It was a hot morning late in July when the school opened . 
I trembled when I heard the patter of little feet down the dusty road , and saw the growing row of dark solemn faces and bright eager eyes facing me . 
First came Josie and her brothers and sisters . 
There were the Burkes , two brown and yellow lads , and a tiny haughty eyed girl . 
Fat Reuben's little chubby girl came , with golden face and old gold hair , faithful and solemn . 
'Thenie was on hand early , a jolly , ugly , good hearted girl , who slyly dipped snuff and looked after her little bow legged brother . 
When her mother could spare her , 'Tildy came , a midnight beauty , with starry eyes and tapering limbs and her brother , correspondingly homely . 
And then the big boys the hulking Lawrences the lazy Neills , unfathered sons of mother and daughter Hickman , with a stoop in his shoulders and the rest . 
I loved my school , and the fine faith the children had in the wisdom of their teacher was truly marvelous . 
We read and spelled together , wrote a little , picked flowers , sang , and listened to stories of the world beyond the hill . 
At times the school would dwindle away , and I would start out . 
But we'll start them again next week . 
On Friday nights I often went home with some of the children sometimes to Doc Burke's farm . 
His wife was a magnificent Amazon , with saffron face and shining hair , uncorseted and barefooted , and the children were strong and beautiful . 
They lived in a one and a half room cabin in the hollow of the farm , near the spring . 
The front room was full of great fat white beds , scrupulously neat and there were bad chromos on the walls , and a tired centre table . 
In the tiny back kitchen I was often invited to take out and help myself to fried chicken and wheat biscuit , meat and corn pone , string beans and berries . 
At first I used to be a little alarmed at the approach of bed time in the one lone bedroom , but embarrassment was very deftly avoided . 
In the morning all were up and away before I thought of awaking . 
Across the road , where fat Reuben lived , they all went outdoors while the teacher retired , because they did not boast the luxury of a kitchen . 
I liked to stay with the Dowells , for they had four rooms and plenty of good country fare . 
For two summers I lived in this little world it was dull and humdrum . 
The girls looked at the hill in wistful longing , and the boys fretted , and haunted Alexandria . 
Alexandria was town , a straggling , lazy village of houses , churches , and shops , and an aristocracy of Toms , Dicks , and Captains . 
Cuddled on the hill to the north was the village of the colored folks , who lived in three or four room unpainted cottages , some neat and homelike , and some dirty . 
The dwellings were scattered rather aimlessly , but they centred about the twin temples of the hamlet , the Methodist and the Hard Shell Baptist churches . 
These , in turn , leaned gingerly on a sad colored schoolhouse . 
Then the soft melody and mighty cadences of Negro song fluttered and thundered . 
All this caused us to think some thoughts together but these , when ripe for speech , were spoken in various languages . 
Such a paradox they could not understand , and therefore sank into listless indifference , or shiftlessness , or reckless bravado . 
Ill could they be content , born without and beyond the World . 
And their weak wings beat against their barriers , barriers of caste , of youth , of life at last , in dangerous moments , against everything that opposed even a whim . 
The ten years that follow youth , the years when first the realization comes that life is leading somewhere , these were the years that passed after I left my little school . 
When they were past , I came by chance once more to the walls of Fisk University , to the halls of the chapel of melody . 
Josie was dead , and the gray haired mother said simply , We've had a heap of trouble since you've been away . 
I had feared for Jim . 
With a cultured parentage and a social caste to uphold him , he might have made a venturesome merchant or a West Point cadet . 
They told Jim to run away but he would not run , and the constable came that afternoon . 
It grieved Josie , and great awkward John walked nine miles every day to see his little brother through the bars of Lebanon jail . 
At last the two came back together in the dark night . 
The mother cooked supper , and Josie emptied her purse , and the boys stole away . 
Josie grew thin and silent , yet worked the more . 
The hill became steep for the quiet old father , and with the boys away there was little to do in the valley . 
Josie helped them sell the old farm , and they moved nearer town . 
I paused to scent the breeze as I entered the valley . 
The Lawrences have gone father and son forever , and the other son lazily digs in the earth to live . 
A new young widow rents out their cabin to fat Reuben . 
There are babies a plenty , and one half witted girl . 
My log schoolhouse was gone . 
In its place stood Progress , and Progress , I understand , is necessarily ugly . 
Some of the window glass was broken , and part of an old iron stove lay mournfully under the house . 
I peeped through the window half reverently , and found things that were more familiar . 
The blackboard had grown by about two feet , and the seats were still without backs . 
The county owns the lot now , I hear , and every year there is a session of school . 
As I sat by the spring and looked on the Old and the New I felt glad , very glad , and yet After two long drinks I started on . 
There was the great double log house on the corner . 
I remembered the broken , blighted family that used to live there . 
The strong , hard face of the mother , with its wilderness of hair , rose before me . 
She had driven her husband away , and while I taught school a strange man lived there , big and jovial , and people talked . 
I felt sure that Ben and 'Tildy would come to naught from such a home . 
A hard life the lad had led , toiling for meat , and laughed at because he was homely and crooked . 
There was Sam Carlon , an impudent old skinflint , who had definite notions about niggers , and hired Ben a summer and would not pay him . 
Doc Burke saved a murder and a lynching that day . 
The story reminded me again of the Burkes , and an impatience seized me to know who won in the battle , Doc or the seventy five acres . 
For it is a hard thing to make a farm out of nothing , even in fifteen years . 
So I hurried on , thinking of the Burkes . 
They used to have a certain magnificent barbarism about them that I liked . 
I hurried by the cottage of the misborn Neill boys . 
It was empty , and they were grown into fat , lazy farm hands . 
I saw the home of the Hickmans , but Albert , with his stooping shoulders , had passed from the world . 
And lo ! the cabin in the hollow had climbed the hill and swollen to a half finished six room cottage . 
The Burkes held a hundred acres , but they were still in debt . 
Indeed , the gaunt father who toiled night and day would scarcely be happy out of debt , being so used to it . 
Some day he must stop , for his massive frame is showing decline . 
The mother wore shoes , but the lionlike physique of other days was broken . 
The children had grown up . 
Rob , the image of his father , was loud and rough with laughter . 
Birdie , my school baby of six , had grown to a picture of maiden beauty , tall and tawny . 
Edgar is gone , said the mother , with head half bowed , gone to work in Nashville he and his father couldn't agree . 
Little Doc , the boy born since the time of my school , took me horseback down the creek next morning toward Farmer Dowell's . 
The road and the stream were battling for mastery , and the stream had the better of it . 
We splashed and waded , and the merry boy , perched behind me , chattered and laughed . 
He showed me where Simon Thompson had bought a bit of ground and a home but his daughter Lana , a plump , brown , slow girl , was not there . 
She had married a man and a farm twenty miles away . 
We wound on down the stream till we came to a gate that I did not recognize , but the boy insisted that it was Uncle Bird's . 
The farm was fat with the growing crop . 
In that little valley was a strange stillness as I rode up for death and marriage had stolen youth , and left age and childhood there . 
We sat and talked that night , after the chores were done . 
Uncle Bird was grayer , and his eyes did not see so well , but he was still jovial . 
We talked of the acres bought , one hundred and twenty five , of the new guest chamber added , of Martha's marrying . 
Then we talked of death Fanny and Fred were gone a shadow hung over the other daughter , and when it lifted she was to go to Nashville to school . 
And next morning she died in the home that her little bow legged brother , working and saving , had bought for their widowed mother . 
My journey was done , and behind me lay hill and dale , and Life and Death . 
Most of the vessels so employed were small corvettes , brigs , or schooners steam at that time was just being introduced into the navies of the world . 
Nearly fifty years ago I was midshipman on the United States brig Porpoise , of ten guns . 
Some of my readers may remember these little ten gun coffins , as many of them proved to be to their crews . 
With a crew of eighty all told , Lieutenant Thompson was in command , Lieutenant Bukett executive officer , and two midshipmen were the line officers . 
She was so slow that we could hardly hope for a prize except by a fluke . 
Repeatedly we had chased suspicious craft only to be out sailed . 
The slavers were generally small , handy craft fast , of course usually schooner rigged , and carrying flying topsails and forecourse . 
Many were built in England or elsewhere purposely for the business , without , of course , the knowledge of the builders , ostensibly as yachts or traders . 
The Spaniards and Portuguese were the principal offenders , with occasionally an English speaking renegade . 
The slave depots , or barracoons , were generally located some miles up a river . 
Here the slaver was secure from capture and could embark his live cargo at his leisure . 
We had been cruising off the coast of Liberia doing nothing , when we were ordered to the Gulf of Guinea to watch the Bonny and Cameroons mouths of the great Niger River . 
Our consort was H. M. schooner Bright , a beautiful craft about our tonnage , but with half our crew , and able to sail three miles to our two . 
She was an old slaver , captured and adapted as a cruiser . 
She had been very successful , making several important captures of full cargoes , and twice or thrice her commanding officer and others had been promoted . 
A few glasses of rum or a string of beads would loosen the tongue of almost any one . 
At Little Bonny we heard that two vessels were some miles up the river , ready to sail , and were only waiting until the coast was clear . 
We both stood to that direction . 
Of course we were watched from the shore , and the slavers were kept posted as to our movements . 
The night was dark with occasional rain squalls , when the heavens would open and the water come down in a flood . 
Anxiously we all watched for daylight , which comes under the equator with a suddenness very different from the prolonged twilight of higher latitudes . 
At the first glimmer in the east every eye was strained on the horizon , all eager , all anxious to be the first to sight anything within our vision . 
The darkness soon gave way to gray morn . 
Day was dawning , when suddenly a Krooman by my side seized my hand and , without saying a word , pointed inshore . 
I looked , but could see nothing . 
All eyes were focused in that direction , and in a few minutes the faint outline of a vessel appeared against the sky . 
, standing across our bows , with all studding sails set on the starboard side , indeed everything that could pull , including water sails and save all . 
We were on the same tack heading to the northward . 
We set everything that would draw , and kept off two points , bringing the wind abeam so as to head her off . 
The breeze was light and off the land . 
We had not yet been seen against the darker western horizon , but we knew it could only be a few minutes longer before their sharp eyes would make us out . 
Soon we saw the studding sails and all kites come down by the run and her yards braced up sharp on the same tack as ours . 
We also hauled by the wind . 
At sunrise she was four points on our weather bow , distant about four miles . 
We soon perceived that she could outsail our brig and if the wind held would escape . 
Gradually she drew away from us until she was hull down . 
Our only hope now was that the land breeze would cease and the sea breeze come in . 
As the sun rose we gladly noticed the wind lessening , until at eleven o'clock it was calm . 
Not a breath ruffled the surface of the sea the sun's rays in the zenith were reflected as from a mirror the waters seemed like molten lead . 
What if this should last ? what a fate ! The Rime of the Ancient Mariner comes to our mind . 
Come storm and tempest , come hurricanes and blizzards , anything but an endless stagnation . 
For some hours we watched earnestly the horizon to the westward , looking for the first dark break on the smooth sea . 
Not a cloud was in the heavens . 
The brig appeared to be leaving us either by towing or by sweeps only her topgallant sail was above the horizon . 
It looked as if the sea breeze would desert us . 
It usually came in about one o'clock , but that hour and another had passed and yet we watched for the first change . 
Without a breeze our chances of overhauling the stranger were gone . 
Only a white speck like the wing of a gull now marked her whereabouts on the edge of the horizon , and in another hour she would be invisible even from the masthead . 
When we were about to despair , our head Krooman drew the captain's attention to the westward and said the breeze was coming . 
We saw no signs of it , but his quick eye had noticed light feathery clouds rising to the westward , a sure indication of the coming breeze . 
The crew needed no encouragement to spring to their work . 
As the little brig felt the breeze and gathered steerageway , she was headed for the chase , bringing the wind on her starboard quarter . 
In less than five minutes all the studding sails that would draw were set , as well as everything that would pull . 
The best quartermaster was sent to the wheel , with orders to keep the chase directly over the weather end of the spritsail yard . 
The captain ordered the sails wet , an expedient I never had much faith in , unless the sails are very old . 
But as if to recompense us for the delay , the breeze came in strong and steady . 
All hands were piped to quarters , and the long eighteen pounder on the forecastle was loaded with a full service charge on this piece we relied to cripple the chase . 
We were now rapidly raising her , and I was sent aloft on the fore topsail yard , with a good glass to watch her movements . 
Her hull was in sight and she was still becalmed , though her head was pointed in the right direction , and everything was set to catch the coming breeze . 
She carried a boat on each side at the davits like a man of war , and I reported that I could make out men securing them . 
They had been towing her , and only stopped when they saw us drawing near . 
Anxiously we watched the breeze on the water as it narrowed the sheen between us , and we were yet two miles or more distant when she first felt the breeze . 
Fortunately the wind continued to freshen and the Porpoise was doing wonderfully well . 
We were rapidly closing the distance between us . 
We fired another gun , but no attention was paid to it . 
I noticed from the movements of the crew of the brig that they were getting ready for some manoeuvre , and reported to the captain . 
We felt certain now of the character of our friend , and the men were already calculating the amount of their prize money . 
We were now within range , and must clip her wings if possible . 
The first lieutenant was ordered to open fire with the eighteen pounder . 
Carefully the gun was laid , and as the order fire was given , down came our English flag , and the stop of the Stars and Stripes was broken at the gaff . 
The first shot touched the water abeam of the chase and ricochetted ahead of her . 
She showed the Spanish flag . 
The captain of the gun was ordered to elevate a little more and try again . 
The second shot let daylight through her fore topsail , but the third was wide again . 
Then the sharp , quick order of the captain , Fore topsail yard there , come down on deck , sir ! brought me down on the run . 
Have both cutters cleared away and ready for lowering , were my orders as I reached the quarter deck . 
Her captain had lost no time in taking in his studding sails halyards , tacks , and sheets had all been cut together and dropped overboard . 
It was a bold and well executed manoeuvre , and we could not help admiring the skill with which she was handled . 
However , we had been prepared for this move . 
Haul down the studding sails . 
Ease away the weather braces . 
Trim down the head sheets , were the orders which followed in rapid succession , and were as quickly executed . 
She was both head reaching and outsailing us in half an hour she would have been right ahead of us , and in an hour the sun would be down . 
It was now or never . 
We could bring nothing to bear except the gun on the forecastle . 
Fortunately it continued smooth , and we were no longer troubled with smoke . 
Shot after shot went hissing through the air after her a number tore through the sails or rigging , but not a spar was touched nor an important rope cut . 
We could see some of her crew aloft reeving and stopping braces and ready to repair any damage done , working as coolly under fire as old man of war's men . 
But while we were looking , down came the gaff of her mainsail , and the gaff topsail fell all adrift a lucky shot had cut her peak halyards . 
Our crew cheered with a will . 
Well done , Hobson try it again ! called the captain to the boatswain's mate , who was captain of the gun . 
After the next shot , the topgallant yard swayed for a few minutes and fell forward . 
The order was given to cease firing she was at our mercy . 
We were rapidly nearing the chase , when she backed her topsail . 
We kept off , and when within easy range of the carronades hove to to windward . 
Lieutenant Bukett was ordered to board her in the first cutter and take charge . 
I followed in the second cutter , with orders to bring the captain on board with his papers . 
A few strokes sent us alongside of a brig about our tonnage , but with a low rail and a flush deck . 
The crew , some eighteen or twenty fine looking seamen , were forward eagerly discussing the situation of affairs . 
The captain was aft with his two officers , talking to Lieutenant Bukett . 
He spoke fairly good English , and was violently denouncing the outrage done to his flag his government would demand instant satisfaction for firing upon a legitimate trader on the high seas . 
I have the lieutenant Captain Thompson's orders , to bring the captain and his papers on board at once . 
His harangue was cut short by orders to get on board my boat . 
He swore with a terrible oath that he would never leave his vessel . 
Come on board , men , said I , and twenty of our crew were on deck in a jiffy . 
I stationed my coxswain , Parker , at the cabin companion way with orders to allow no one to pass . 
Now , said Lieutenant Bukett to the Spaniard , I will take you on board in irons unless you go quietly . 
He hesitated a moment , then said he would come as soon as he had gone below to bring up his papers . 
No , never mind your papers I will find them , said the lieutenant , for he saw the devil in the Spaniard's eyes , and knew he meant mischief . 
Our captive made one bound for the companion way , however , and seizing Parker by the throat hurled him into the water ways as if he had been a rag baby . 
But fortunately he slipped on a small grating and fell on his knees , and before he could recover himself two of our men threw themselves upon him . 
I closed the companion way . 
The struggle was desperate for a few minutes , for the Spaniard seemed possessed of the furies , and his efforts were almost superhuman . 
Twice he threw the men from him across the deck , but they were reinforced by Parker , who , smarting under his discomfiture , rushed in , determined to down him . 
I was anxious to end it with my pistol , but Lieutenant Bukett would not consent . 
The Spaniard's officers and men made some demonstration to assist , but they were quickly disposed of his two mates were put in irons and the crew driven forward . 
Only then he succumbed , and begged Lieutenant Bukett to blow out his brains , for he had been treated like a pirate . 
Without doubt if he had reached the cabin he would have blown up the vessel , for in a locker over the transom were two open kegs of powder . 
I led him to my boat , assisted him in , and returned to the Porpoise . 
As soon as the Spaniard reached the deck the captain ordered his irons removed , and expressed his regret that it had been necessary to use force . 
The prisoner only bowed and said nothing . 
The captain asked him what his cargo consisted of . 
He replied , About four hundred blacks bound to the Brazils . 
The crew of twenty men , when brought on board , consisted of Spaniards , Greeks , Malays , Arabs , white and black , but had not one Anglo Saxon . 
They were ironed in pairs and put under guard . 
In the hold were three or four hundred human beings , gasping , struggling for breath , dying their bodies , limbs , faces , all expressing terrible suffering . 
In their agonizing fight for life , some had torn or wounded themselves or their neighbors dreadfully some were stiffened in the most unnatural positions . 
As soon as I knew the condition of things I sent the boat back for the doctor and some whiskey . 
A little water and stimulant revived most of them some , however , were dead or too far gone to be resuscitated . 
The doctor worked earnestly over each one , but seventeen were beyond human skill . 
As fast as he pronounced them dead they were quickly dropped overboard . 
Night closed in with our decks covered so thickly with the ebony bodies that with difficulty we could move about fortunately they were as quiet as so many snakes . 
In the meantime the first officer , Mr. Block , was sending up a new topgallant yard , reeving new rigging , repairing the sails , and getting everything ataunto aloft . 
The Kroomen were busy washing out and fumigating the hold , getting ready for our cargo again . 
It would have been a very anxious night , except that I felt relieved by the presence of the brig which kept within hail . 
Soon after daybreak Captain Thompson came on board again , and we made a count of the captives as they were sent below men and boys , and women and girls . 
From the first I kept all hands aft except two men on the lookout , and the weather was so warm that we could all sleep on deck . 
Born and bred a slave he never thought of any other condition , and he accepted the situation without a murmur . 
I had never heard of blacks rising or attempting to gain their freedom on board a slaver . 
All were slashed , or had the scars of branding on their foreheads and cheeks these marks were the distinguishing features of different tribes or families . 
The men's hair had been cut short , and their heads looked in some cases as if they had been shaven . 
Their features were of the pronounced African type , but , notwithstanding this disfigurement , were not unpleasing in appearance . 
The figures of all were very good , straight , well developed , some of the young men having bodies that would have graced a Mercury or an Apollo . 
Their hands were small , showing no evidences of work , only the cruel marks of shackles . 
These in some cases had worn deep furrows on their wrists or ankles . 
They were obedient to all orders as far as they understood them , and would , I believe , have jumped overboard if told to do so . 
I forbade the men to treat them harshly or cruelly . 
I had the sick separated from the others , and allowed them to remain on deck all the time , and in this way I partly gained their confidence . 
I was anxious to learn their story . 
Fortunately one of the Kroomen found among the prisoners a native of a tribe living near the coast , and with him as interpreter was able to make himself understood . 
They had been sold by their kings or by their parents to the Arab trader for firearms or for rum . 
Once at the depots near the coast , they were sold by the Arabs or other traders to the slave captains for from twenty five to fifty dollars a head . 
In the Brazils or West Indies they were worth from two to five hundred dollars . 
This wide margin , of course , attracted unscrupulous and greedy adventurers , who if they succeeded in running a few cargoes would enrich themselves . 
Our daily routine was simple . 
A large pan of boiled paddy was then placed in the centre by the cook and all went to work with their hands . 
A few minutes sufficed to dispose of every grain then one of the Kroomen gave each of them a cup of water from a bucket . 
At the end of this time they were sent below and another fifty brought up , and so on until all had been fed and watered . 
Paddy or rice was the staple article of food . 
At dinner boiled yams were given with the rice . 
Our passengers were quartered on a flying deck extending from the foremast to a point twenty feet abaft the main hatch from which came light and air . 
The height was about five feet the men had one side and the women the other . 
Of course there was no furnishing of any kind , but all lay prone upon the bare deck in rows . 
Every morning after breakfast the Kroomen would rig the force pump , screw on the hose and drench them all , washing out thoroughly between decks . 
They appeared to enjoy this , and it was cooling , for be it remembered we were close under the equator , the thermometer dancing about deg . 
As the water was sluiced over them they would rub and scrub each other . 
Only the girls would try not to get their hair wet , for they were at all times particular about their headdress . 
It may be that this was the only part of their toilet that gave them any concern . 
The winds were baffling and light , so we made but slow progress . 
I found on inspection that there were at least thirty days' provisions on board , so on this score and that of water I felt easy . 
Two or three prints of his favorite saints , ornamented with sharks' teeth , hung on one bulkhead . 
I found also some choice vintages from the Douro and Bordeaux snugly stowed in his spirit locker , which proved good medicines for some of our captives , who required stimulants . 
Several of the girls were much reduced , refused nearly all food , and were only kept alive by a little wine and water . 
Two finally died of mere inanition . 
The fifth day after parting from the brig we encountered a tropical storm . 
The sun rose red and angry , and owing to the great refraction appeared three times its natural size . 
It climbed lazily to the zenith , and at noon we were shadowless . 
The sky was as calm as a vault , and the surface of the water was like burnished steel . 
The heat became so stifling that even the Africans were gasping for breath , and we envied them their freedom from all impediments . 
The least exertion was irksome , and attended with extreme lassitude . 
During the afternoon thin cirri clouds , flying very high , spread out over the western heavens like a fan . 
As the day lengthened they thickened to resemble the scales of a fish , bringing to mind the old saying , A mackerel sky and a mare's tail , etc . 
The signs were all unmistakable , and even the gulls recognized a change , and , screaming , sought shelter on our spars . 
The sun disappeared behind a mountainous mass of leaden colored clouds which rose rapidly in the southern and western quarters . 
To the eastward , also , the signs were threatening . 
Night came on suddenly as it does in the tropics . 
Soon the darkness enveloped us , a palpable veil . 
A noise like the march of a mighty host was heard , which proved to be the approach of a tropical flood , heralded by drops as large as marbles . 
It churned the still waters into a phosphorescent foam which rendered the darkness only more oppressive . 
The rain came down as it can come only in the Bight of Benin . 
The avalanche cooled us , reducing the temperature ten or fifteen degrees , giving us new life , and relieving our fevered blood . 
I told Mr. Block to throw back the tarpaulin over the main hatch and let our dusky friends get some benefit of it . 
In half an hour the rain ceased , but it was as calm and ominous as ever . 
Without intermission , one blaze after another and thunder crashing until our eyes were blinded and our ears deafened , a thousand times ten thousand pieces of artillery thundered away . 
We seemed utterly helpless and insignificant . 
How wonderful are Thy works , came to my mind . 
Still no wind the brig lay helpless . 
Suddenly , as a slap in the face , the wind struck us , on the starboard quarter , fortunately . 
Hanl aft port fore staysail sheet , I called . 
But before she could gather way she was thrown down by the wind like a reed . 
She was coming to instead of going off , and I tried to get the main storm staysail down but could not make myself heard . 
She was lying on her broadside . 
Luckily the water was smooth as yet . 
The main staysail shot out of the boltropes with a report like a twelve pounder , and this eased her so that if the fore staysail would only hold she would go off . 
I knew we were too near the vortex of the disturbance for the wind to hang long in one quarter , so watched anxiously for a change . 
I passed an anxious night , most concerned about the poor creatures under hatches , whose sufferings must have been terrible . 
To prevent their suffocating I kept two men at the main hatch with orders to lift one corner of the tarpaulin whenever possible , even if some water did go below . 
Toward morning the wind and the sea went down rapidly , and as the sun rose it chased the clouds off , giving us the promise of a fine day . 
When the cook brought me a cup of coffee , I do not know that I ever enjoyed anything more . 
Hatches off , I jumped down into the hold to look after my prisoners . 
Battered and bruised they lay around in heaps . 
Only the shifting boards had kept them from being beaten into an indistinguishable mass . 
One boy , when I motioned for him to go on deck , pointed quietly to his leg , and upon examination I found a fracture just above the knee . 
I had seen limbs set , and had some rough idea how it should be done . 
That done I put on the splints and wrapped the bandages tightly . 
Three weeks later I landed him in a fair way of recovery . 
Gradually I allowed a larger number of the blacks to remain on deck , a privilege which they greatly enjoyed . 
To lie basking in the sun like saurians , half sleeping , half waking , appeared to satisfy all their wishes . 
They were perfectly docile and obedient , and not by word , gesture , or look did they express any dissatisfaction with orders given them . 
But again for any little acts of kindness they expressed no kind of appreciation or gratitude . 
Physically they were men and women , but otherwise as far removed from the Anglo Saxon as the oyster from the baboon , or the mole from the horse . 
On the fourteenth day from parting with the brig we made the palms on Cape Mesurado , the entrance to Monrovia Harbor . 
A great responsibility seemed lifted from my shoulders , and I enjoyed a long and refreshing sleep for the first time in a fortnight . 
At nine the next morning I went on shore and reported to the authorities , the officials of Liberia , of which Monrovia is the capital . 
The passages of the negroes were paid each family was given a tract of land and sufficient means to build a house . 
Several thousand had been sent out , most of whom had settled at Monrovia , and a few at other places on the coast . 
They had made no impression on the natives . 
The form of government was modeled after that of the United States , but it was top heavy . 
Honorables , colonels , and judges were thicker than in Georgia . 
Only privates were scarce for nothing delights a negro more than a little show or a gaudy uniform . 
With him were three or four others in the same rig , except the epaulettes . 
He introduced himself as Colonel Harrison , chief of police . 
I asked to be directed to the custom house . 
The collector proved to be an old negro from Raleigh , N. C. , gray as a badger , spectacled , with manners of Lord Grandison and language of Mrs. Malaprop . 
I reported my arrival , and asked permission to land my cargo as soon as possible . 
He replied that in a matter of so much importance , devolving questions of momentous interest , it would be obligatory on him to consult the Secretary of the Treasury . 
I said I trusted he would so facilitate affairs that I might at an early hour disembarrass myself of my involuntary prisoners . 
I returned on board , and the day passed without any answer . 
The next morning I determined to go at once to headquarters and find out the cause of the delay by calling on the President . 
He received me without any formality . 
I made my case as strong as possible , and pressed for an immediate answer . 
In reply he assured me he would consult with other members of his cabinet , and give me a final answer the next morning . 
That evening I dined with him en famille , and recognized some old Virginia dishes on the table . 
About eleven o'clock a boat came off with an officer in full uniform , who introduced himself as Colonel Royal , bearer of dispatches from his Excellency the President . 
He handed me a letter couched in diplomatic language , as long as some of his brother presidents' messages on this side of the Atlantic . 
I had hardly patience to read it . 
This was something I had not anticipated , and outside of my instructions . 
However , I thought it best to comply with the wishes of the government of our only colony . 
Getting under way we stood to the southward and eastward , taking advantage of the light land and sea breeze , keeping the coast close aboard . 
The colonel had come on board without any impediments , and I wondered if he intended to make the voyage in his cocked hat , epaulettes , sword , etc . 
But soon after we had started he disappeared and emerged from the cabin bareheaded , barefooted , and without clothing except a blue dungaree shirt and trousers . 
Like a provident negro , having stowed away all his trappings , he appeared as a roustabout on a Western steamer . 
But he had not laid aside with his toggery any of his important and consequential airs . 
He ran foul of Mr. Block , who called him Mr. Cuffy , and ordered him to give him a pull with the main sheet . 
The colonel complained to me that he was not addressed by his name or title , and that he was not treated as a representative of his government should be . 
I reprimanded Mr. Block , and told him to give the visitor all his title . 
All right , sir , but the colonel must keep off the weather side of the deck , growled the officer . 
The cook , the crew , and even the Kroomen , all took their cue from the first officer , and the colonel's lot was made most unhappy . 
Toward evening it moderated , and a canoe with three naked natives came off . 
One I found could speak a little English . 
I told him to say to the governor that I would come on shore in the morning and see him , and land my cargo at the same time . 
A pair of blue flannel trousers completed his outfit . 
An interpreter introduced him as King George of Grand Bassa . 
With him were about a dozen followers , each one wearing a different sort of garment and seldom more than a single one representing old uniforms of many countries . 
Two coats I noticed were buttoned up the back . 
The king began by saying that he was and always had been a friend of the Americans that he was a big man , had plenty of men and five wives , etc . 
While he was speaking , a white bearded old colored gentleman came over the gangway , dressed in a linen roundabout and trousers , with a wide brimmed straw hat . 
At the same time Colonel Royal came up from the cabin in grande tenue and introduced us to the Hon . 
Mr. Marshall , governor of Bassa , formerly of Kentucky . 
In a few minutes he explained the situation . 
With a few settlers he was located at this place , on the frontier of the colony , and they were there on sufferance only from the natives . 
I told him Colonel Royal would explain my mission to him and the king . 
The king listened for a few minutes , and then interrupted him . 
I asked the interpreter what he said . 
He replied , King say he fool nigger if he comes on shore he give him to Voodoo women . 
Then turning his back he walked forward . 
The colonel dropped his paper , and drawing his sword , in the most dramatic manner claimed protection in the name of the government , declaring that he had been insulted . 
I told him to keep cool , since he was certainly safe as long as he was on board my ship . 
He grumbled and muttered terrible things , but subsided gradually like the departing thunder of a summer storm . 
I arranged the landing of the passengers with Governor Marshall , whom I found a sensible , clear headed old man , ready to cooperate in every way . 
But he suggested that I had better consult the king before doing anything . 
I did so , and he at once said they could not land . 
If that is the case , I replied , I will hold you on board as a hostage for their good behavior . 
This threat surprised him , and he changed his tactics . 
However , I told the king I would send his wives some cloth and buttons . 
He grunted his approval but returned again to the charge , and asked that he might choose a few of the captives for his own use , before landing . 
Certainly not , I answered , neither on board nor on shore , and added that he would be held accountable for their good treatment as free men and women . 
He left thoroughly disappointed and bent on mischief . 
In the meantime Mr. Block had made all preparations for landing , and had the boats lowered and ranged alongside , with sufficient rice to last the blacks a week or ten days . 
The men and boys were sent first . 
When they were called up from the hold and ordered into the boats not one of them moved . 
They evidently divined what had been going on and dreaded leaving the vessel , though our Kroomen tried to explain that they would be safe and free on shore . 
The explanation was without effect , however , and they refused to move . 
The could only understand that they were changing masters , and they preferred the present ones . 
Sending three or four men down , I told them to pass up the negroes one at a time . 
By noon the men were all on shore , and then we began with the girls . 
They were more demonstrative than the men , and by their looks and gestures begged not to be taken out of the vessel . 
And I could not help thinking what their fate would be , thrown upon the shore hundreds of miles from their homes , and among a people strange to them in language . 
Even Mr. Block was deeply stirred . 
He had not shipped , he said , for such work . 
I went to my cabin and left him in charge . 
In the course of an hour he reported , All ashore , sir . 
I told him to have the gig manned and I would go on shore with Colonel Royal , and get a receipt from Governor Marshall for my late cargo . 
The colonel declined to accompany me , alleging sickness and requesting me to get the necessary papers signed . 
No doubt he felt safer on board than within reach of King George . 
We landed through the surf on a sandy beach , on which the waves of the Atlantic were fretting . 
Near by was a thick grove of cocoanut trees , under which in groups of four and five were those who had just been landed . 
With the exception of him and a few of his head men , the clothing of the company would not have covered a rag baby . 
They were no doubt discussing the appearance of the strangers and making their selections . 
I found the governor's house and the houses of the few settlers some distance back on a slight elevation . 
The governor was comfortably , though plainly situated , with a large family around him . 
He gave me a receipt for the number of blacks landed , but said it would be impossible for him to prevent the natives from taking and enslaving them . 
I agreed with him , and said he must repeat to the king what I had told him . 
Then bidding him good by I returned on board , sad and weary as one often feels after being relieved of a great burden . 
Sierra Leone being a crown colony , the English could land all their captives there and provide for them until they were able to work for themselves . 
In this respect they had a great advantage over us . 
Getting under way , I proceeded to Monrovia to land Colonel Royal , and then to Porto Praya , our squadron's headquarters . 
There I found Commodore Gregory in the flagship corvette Portsmouth , and reported to him . 
Soon after the Porpoise came in , and I joined my old craft , giving up my command of the captured slaver rather reluctantly . 
Quite as striking as this novelty of the material was the author's thorough mastery of it , and his unerring knowledge of the life he had chosen in its peculiar racial characteristics . 
It is not from their racial interest that we could first wish to speak of them , though that must have a very great and very just claim upon the critic . 
It is much more simply and directly , as works of art , that they make their appeal , and we must allow the force of this quite independently of the other interest . 
Yet it cannot always be allowed . 
There are times in each of the stories of the first volume when the simplicity lapses , and the effect is as of a weak and uninstructed touch . 
There are other times when the attitude , severely impartial and studiously aloof , accuses itself of a little pompousness . 
There are still other times when the literature is a little too ornate for beauty , and the diction is journalistic , reporteristic . 
He belongs , in other words , to the good school , the only school , all aberrations from nature being so much truancy and anarchy . 
He sees his people very clearly , very justly , and he shows them as he sees them , leaving the reader to divine the depth of his feeling for them . 
In some others the comedy degenerates into satire , with a look in the reader's direction which the author's friend must deplore . 
Character , the most precious thing in fiction , is as faithfully portrayed against the poetic background as in the setting of the Stories of the Color Line . 
He has not shown the dwellers there as very different from ourselves . 
It is not , in such cases , their negro blood that characterizes them but it is their negro blood that excludes them , and that will imaginably fortify them and exalt them . 
But that is his personal affair . 
Our own more universal interest in him arises from the more than promise he has given in a department of literature where Americans hold the foremost place . 
He has sounded a fresh note , boldly , not blatantly , and he has won the ear of the more intelligent public . 
If his presence here has been beneficial , or is ever to prove so , the price of the benefit has already been dearly paid for . 
He was the occasion of the deadliest and most expensive war in modern times . 
In the next place , his presence has corrupted politics and has limited statesmanship to a mere question of race supremacy . 
On the charts of illiteracy and crime the South is represented by an immense black spot . 
Such are a few items of the account . 
It will require millions more of dollars and generations more of earnest work before the total cost is met of bringing the black man to this side of the globe . 
But the debt has been incurred and must be liquidated . 
The higher we raise the standard of living among the Negroes , the higher will be the wages of the white people in the same occupations . 
The low standard of the Negroes is the result of low productive power . 
High wages generally indicate high productive power and general wealth , while low wages indicate the opposite . 
Only benefits can arise from better wages . 
In the next place , the Negro's propensity to crime tends to excite the criminal tendencies of the white man . 
The physical well being of the one race has such a conspicuous influence upon that of the other that the subject requires no elaboration . 
Again , the lack of refinement in intellect , manners , and dress among the Negroes is an obstacle to the cultivated life of the whites . 
Furthermore , the corrupt , coarse , and vulgar language of the Negroes is largely responsible for the jumbled and distorted English spoken by many of the Southern whites . 
These settlements are often outside the corporate limits . 
The houses are built along narrow , crooked , and dirty lanes , and the community is without sanitary regulations or oversight . 
These quarters should be brought under municipal control , the lanes widened into streets and cleaned , and provision made to guard against the opening of similar ones in the future . 
In the next place , property owners should build better houses for the Negroes to live in . 
The weakness in the civilization of the Negroes is most pronounced in their family life . 
But improvement in this respect is not possible without an improvement in the character and the comforts of the houses they live in . 
Bad houses breed bad people and bad neighborhoods . 
There is no more distinctive form of crime than the building and renting of houses unfit for human habitation . 
Scarcely second in importance to improvements in house architecture is the need among Negroes of more time to spend with their families . 
Employers of Negro labor should be less exacting in the number of hours required for a day's work . 
Many domestic servants now work from six in the morning until nine and ten o'clock at night . 
The Southern habit of keeping open shopping places until late at night encourages late suppers , retains cooks , butlers , and nurses until bedtime , and robs them of all home life . 
If the merchants would close their shops at six o'clock , as is the custom in the North , the welfare of both races would be greatly promoted . 
Again , a revolution is needed in the character of the Negro's religion . 
At present it is too largely an affair of the emotions . 
He needs to be taught that the religious life is something to grow into by the perfection of personality , and not to be jumped into or sweated into at camp meetings . 
The theological seminaries and the graduate preachers should assume the task of grafting upon the religion of the Negro that much sanity at least . 
A reform is as much needed in the methods and aims of Negro education . 
Up to the present Negro education has shared with that of the white man the fault of being top heavy . 
Colleges and universities have developed out of proportion to , and at the expense of , common schools . 
Then , the kind of education afforded the Negro has not been fitted to his capacities and needs . 
He has been made to pursue courses of study parallel to those prescribed for the whites , as though the individuals of both races had to fill the same positions in life . 
Much of the Negro's education has had nothing to do with his real life work . 
It has only made him discontented and disinclined to unfold his arms . 
The survival of the Negroes in the race for existence depends upon their retaining possession of the few bread winning occupations now open to them . 
But instead of better qualifying themselves for these occupations they have been poring over dead languages and working problems in mathematics . 
Every year the number of occupations open to him becomes fewer because of his lack of progress in them . 
Too much cannot be said in behalf of the revolution in the life of the Negro which the work of these schools promises and , in part , has already wrought . 
Changes are needed in the methods of Negro education as well as in its scope . 
Educators should take into account , more than they have yet done , the differences in the mental characteristics of the two races . 
It is also well known that the inferior races , being deficient in generalization , which is a subjective process , are absorbed almost entirely in the things that are objective . 
They have strong and alert eyesight , and are susceptible to impressions through the medium of the eye to an extent that is impossible to any of the white races . 
This fact is evidenced in the great number of pictures found in the homes of the Negroes . 
In default of anything better , they will paper their walls with advertisements of the theater and the circus , and even with pictures from vicious newspapers . 
They delight in street pageantry , fancy costumes , theatrical performances , and similar spectacles . 
Factories employing Negroes generally find it necessary to suspend operations on circus day . 
They love stories of adventure and any fiction that gives play to their imaginations . 
All their tastes lie in the realm of the objective and the concrete . 
Hence , in the school room stress should be laid on those studies that appeal to the eye and the imagination . 
Lessons should be given in sketching , painting , drawing , and casting . 
Reprints of the popular works of art should be placed before the Negroes , that their love for art may be gratified and their taste cultivated at the same time . 
Fancy needlework , dress making , and home decorations should also have an important place . 
These studies , while not contributing directly to bread winning , have a refining and softening influence upon character , and inspire efforts to make the home more attractive . 
Recitations and dialogues should be more generally and more frequently required . 
In history emphasis should be given to what is picturesque , dramatic , and biographical . 
When the Negroes become intelligent factors in society , when they become thrifty and accumulate wealth , they will find the way to larger exercise of citizenship . 
Before they can take on larger political responsibilities they must demonstrate their ability to meet them . 
The Negroes will never be allowed to control State governments so long as they vote at every election upon the basis of color , without regard whatever to political issues or private convictions . 
But as there is no present prospect of their voting upon any other basis than that of color , the white people are forced to accept the situation and protect themselves accordingly . 
Years of bitter and costly experience have demonstrated over and over again that Negro rule is not only incompetent and corrupt , but a menace to civilization . 
It should be well understood by this time that no foreign race inhabiting this country and acting together politically can dominate the native whites . 
Our national government , in making laws for Hawaii , has carefully provided for white supremacy by an educational qualification for suffrage that excludes the semi civilized natives . 
No sane man , let us hope , would think of placing Manila under the control of a government of the Philippine Islands based upon universal suffrage . 
Yet the problem in the South and the problem in the Philippines and in Hawaii differ only in degree . 
If the suffrage is not thus limited it is necessary for the whites to resort to technicalities and ballot laws , to bribery or intimidation . 
But the writer does not believe in the principle nor in the necessity for a grandfather clause . 
A white man who would disfranchise a Negro because of his color or for mere party advantage is himself unworthy of the suffrage . 
When the question of Negro domination is settled the path of progress of both races will be very much cleared . 
Race conflicts will then be less frequent and race feeling less bitter . 
The field is broad enough in the South for both races to attain all that is possible to them . 
The general condition has been too often judged by the acts of a small minority . 
The Southern people understand the Negroes , and feel a real fondness for those that are thrifty and well behaved . 
When fairly treated the Negro has a strong affection for his employer . 
He seldom forgets a kindness , and is quick to forget a wrong . 
If he does not stay long at one place , it is not that he dislikes his employer so much as that he has a restless temperament and craves change . 
His disposition is full of mirth and sunshine , and not a little of the fine flavor of Southern wit and humor is due to his influence . 
His nature is plastic , and while he is easily molded into a monster , he is also capable of a high degree of culture . 
Many Negroes are thoroughly honest , notwithstanding their bad environment and hereditary disposition to steal . 
Negro servants are trusted with the keys to households to an extent that , probably , is not the case among domestics elsewhere in the civilized world . 
It is strange that two races working side by side should possess so many opposite traits of character . 
The white man has strong will and convictions and is set in his ways . 
He lives an indoor , monotonous life , restrains himself like a Puritan , and is inclined to melancholy . 
The prevalence of Populism throughout the South is nothing but the outcome of this morbid tendency . 
The few entertainments that receive sanction generally exclude all but the well to do by the cost of admission . 
The life of the poor in town and country is bleak and bare to the last degree . 
Contrasting with this tendency is the free and easy life of the blacks . 
The burdens of the present and the future weigh lightly upon their shoulders . 
They love all the worldly amusements in their homes they are free entertainers , and in their fondness for conversation and love of street life they are equal to the French or Italians . 
We have , however , one advantage in approaching the question of the education of our new neighbors . 
To tell what has already been accomplished in the South under most difficult circumstances is to tell what may be done in Cuba and Porto Rico . 
To this end let me tell a story . 
At the close of the war he found his fortune gone , except that which was represented in land , of which he owned several thousand acres . 
Of the two hundred slaves a large proportion decided , after their freedom , to continue on the plantation of their former owner . 
Some years after the war a young black boy , who seemed to have rained down , was discovered on the plantation by Mr. S , the owner . 
This boy , whose name was William , made known to the plantation hands his wish to go to the Tuskegee school . 
Strange to say , he made the long distance with an expenditure of only twenty cents in cash . 
He frankly told every one with whom he came in contact where he was going and what he was seeking . 
One can easily imagine his appearance when he first arrived at Tuskegee , with his blistered feet and small white bundle , which contained all the clothing he possessed . 
On being shown into my office his first words were I's come . 
S'pose you been lookin' for me , but I didn't come on de railroad . 
Looking up the records , it was found that this young man had been given permission to come several months ago , but the correspondence had long since been forgotten . 
At first he seemed drowsy and dull in the night school , and would now and then fall asleep while trying to study but he did not grow discouraged . 
In this condition the farm instructor found him plowing without a word of complaint . 
A pair of second hand shoes was secured for him , and he was soon very happy . 
Toward the end of the year he found himself in need of money with which to buy books , clothing , etc . 
In the letter he told Mr. S how he got to Tuskegee , what he was doing , and what his needs were , and asked Mr. S to lend him fifteen dollars . 
Before receiving this letter Mr. S had not thought once about the boy during his two years' absence in fact , did not know that he had left the plantation . 
Mr. S was a good deal shocked , as well as amused , over such a request from such a source . 
The letter went to the wastebasket without being answered . 
A few weeks later William sent a second letter , in which he took it for granted that the first letter had not been received . 
The second letter shared the same fate as the first . 
A third letter reached Mr. S in a few weeks , making the same request . 
In answer to the third letter Mr. S told me that , moved by some impulse which he himself never understood , he sent William the fifteen dollars . 
William paid Mr. S the fifteen dollars with interest , which he had earned while teaching school after leaving Tuskegee . 
This simple experience with this young colored man made a new and different person of Mr. S , so far as the negro was concerned . 
He thought of the long past , but he thought most of the future , and of his duty toward the hundreds of colored people on his plantation and in his community . 
After careful thought he asked William Edwards to open a school on his plantation in a vacant log cabin . 
That was seven years ago . 
The school has forty acres of land . 
Gifts from a few friends in the North have been received , and the colored people have given their labor and small sums in cash . 
When the people cannot find money to give , they have often given corn , chickens , and eggs . 
The school has grown so popular that almost every leading white man in the community is willing to make a small gift toward its maintenance . 
In addition to the work done directly in the school for the children , the teachers in the Snow Hill school have organized a kind of university extension movement . 
The farmers are organized into conferences , which hold meetings each month . 
No one is a more interested visitor at these meetings than Mr. S himself . 
The matter does not end in mere talk and advice . 
The women teachers go right into the cabins of the people and show them how to keep them clean , how to dust , sweep , and cook . 
Most of them were living on rented land in small one room log cabins , and attempting to pay an enormous rate of interest on the value of their food advances . 
As one old colored man expressed it , I ain't got but six feet of land , and I is got to die to git dat . 
The little school taught in a cabin lasted only three or four months in the year . 
The religion was largely a matter of the emotions , with almost no practical ideas of morality . 
It was the white man for himself and the negro for himself , each in too many cases trying to take advantage of the other . 
The situation was pretty well described by a black man who said to me I tells you how we votes . 
We always watches de white man , and we keeps watchin' de white man . 
De nearer it gits to 'lection time de more we watches de white man . 
We keeps watchin' de white man till we find out which way he gwine to vote den we votes 'zactly de odder way . 
Den we knows we is right . 
Within half a dozen years I have heard Dr . 
This solution will not come all at once , but gradually . 
The foundation must exist in the commercial and industrial development of the people of my race in the South and in the West Indian Islands . 
The most intelligent whites are beginning to realize that they cannot go much higher than they lift the negro at the same time . 
When a black man owns and cultivates the best farm to be found in his county he will have the confidence and respect of most of the white people in that county . 
When a black man is the largest taxpayer in his community his white neighbor will not object very long to his voting , and having that vote honestly counted . 
Even now a black man who has five hundred dollars to lend has no trouble in finding a white man who is willing to borrow his money . 
The negro who is a large stockholder in a railroad company will always be treated with justice on that railroad . 
Many of the negroes are learning that it is folly not to cultivate in every honorable way the friendship of the white man who is their next door neighbor . 
The audience was about equally divided between white men and women and black men and women . 
But I was anxious to see how the late election had been conducted in that community . 
Colored men had mortgages on white men's crops , and vice versa , and colored people not only owned land , but in several cases were renting land to white men . 
Black men were in debt to white men , and white men were in debt to black men . 
In a word , the industrial and commercial relations of the races were interwoven just as if all had been of one race . 
An object lesson in civilization is more potent in compelling people to act right than a law compelling them to do so . 
After a while this colored teacher was married to an educated colored man , and they built a little cottage , which , in connection with her husband's farm , was a model . 
A conversation took place concerning the flowers . 
This acquaintance has now ripened and broadened , so that to day there are few people in that community more highly respected than this colored family . 
What did it all ? This object lesson . 
No one could explain that away . 
One such object lesson in every community in the South is more powerful than all the laws Congress can pass in the direction of bringing about right relations between blacks and whites . 
Both the colored people and numbers of white visitors were astonished at the creditable exhibits made by the colored people . 
Most of these white people saw the school work at Calhoun for the first time . 
I cannot describe all these places of power . 
Perhaps the whole South and the whole country are most indebted to the Hampton Institute in Virginia . 
Some of these do a different grade of work , but one much needed . 
Counting the students and the families of the instructors , the visitor will find a black village of about twelve hundred people . 
Instead of the old , worn out plantation that was there fifteen years ago , there is a modern farm of seven hundred acres cultivated by student labor . 
There are Jersey and Holstein cows and Berkshire pigs , and the butter used is made by the most modern process . 
Perhaps the most interesting thing in connection with these buildings is that , with the exception of three , they have been built by student labor . 
The friends of the school have furnished money to pay the teachers and for material . 
The school has the building in the end , and the students have the knowledge of the trade . 
Twenty six different industries are here in constant operation . 
One other thing should not be overlooked in our efforts to develop the black man . 
As bad as slavery was , almost every large plantation in the South during that time was , in a measure , an industrial school . 
It had its farming department , its blacksmith , wheelwright , brickmaking , carpentry , and sewing departments . 
Thus at the close of the war our people were in possession of all the common and skilled labor in the South . 
No one understands his value in the labor world better than the old colored man . 
The negro in the South has another advantage . 
White men and black men work at the same carpenter's bench and on the same brick wall . 
Sometimes the white man is the boss , sometimes the black man is the boss . 
I would not have my readers get the thought that the problem in the South is settled , that there is nothing else to be done far from this . 
There are bright spots here and there that point the way . 
For more than thirty years we have been trying to solve one of the most serious problems in the history of the world largely by passing around a hat in the North . 
The problem of lifting up the negro in Cuba and Porto Rico is an easier one in one respect , even if it proves more difficult in others . 
It will be less difficult , because there is the absence of that higher degree of race feeling which exists in many parts of the United States . 
Oppression has not cowed and unmanned the Cuban negro in certain respects as it has the American negro . 
In only a few instances is the color line drawn . 
How Americans will treat the negro Cuban , and what will be the tendency of American influences in the matter of the relation of the races , remains an interesting and open question . 
Phillips Brooks once said , One generation gathers the material , and the next builds the palaces . 
Very largely this must be the material gathering generation of black people , but in due time the palaces will come if we are patient . 
While the choice had not pleased everybody , for instance , some of the other applicants , it was acquiesced in with general satisfaction . 
The former teacher , Miss Henrietta Noble , had applied for the school . 
She had taught the colored children of Patesville for fifteen years . 
When the Freedmen's Bureau , after the military occupation of North Carolina , had called for volunteers to teach the children of the freedmen , Henrietta Nobel had offered her services . 
Henrietta had no brothers or sisters , and her nearest relatives were cousins living in the far West . 
The only human being in whom she felt any special personal interest was a certain captain in her father's regiment , who had paid her some attention . 
She had loved this man deeply , in a maidenly , modest way but he had gone away without speaking , and had not since written . 
He had escaped the fate of many others , and at the close of the war was alive and well , stationed in some Southern garrison . 
She had a fair education and had read many good books . 
It was not easy to find employment such as she desired . 
She wrote to her Western cousins , and they advised her to come to them , as they thought they could do something for her if she were there . 
She had almost decided to accept their offer , when the demand arose for teachers in the South . 
She had come to Patesville when the children were mostly a mob of dirty little beggars . 
And she had not wrought in vain . 
Fifteen years is a long time . 
She had lived a lonely life . 
Once or twice nature had asserted itself , and she had longed for her own kind , and had visited her New England home . 
But for several reasons the school at Patesville was of more importance to Miss Noble at this particular time than it ever had been before . 
During the last few years her health had not been good . 
You are getting along very well now , and if you will take care of yourself and avoid excitement , you will be better . 
Miss Noble had not anticipated any trouble about the school . 
She was much surprised at first , and later alarmed , to find a rival for her position as teacher of the grammar school . 
She had many friends and supporters , but she soon found out that her opponent had considerable strength . 
The other candidate was a young man who in former years had been one of Miss Noble's brightest pupils . 
When he had finished his course in the grammar school , his parents , with considerable sacrifice , had sent him to a college for colored youth . 
He had come home at the end of his school life , and was very naturally seeking the employment for which he had fitted himself . 
He was a bright mulatto , with straight hair , an intelligent face , and a well set figure . 
He was the popular candidate among the progressive element of his people , and rather confidently expected the appointment . 
The meeting of the committee was held in the Methodist church , where , in fact , the grammar school was taught , for want of a separate school house . 
After the preliminary steps to effect an organization , Mr. Gillespie , who had been elected chairman , took the floor . 
The principal business to be brought befo' the meet'n' this evenin' , he said , is the selection of a teacher for our grammar school for the ensuin' year . 
Two candidates have filed applications , which , if there is no objection , I will read to the committee . 
The first is from Miss Noble , who has been the teacher ever since the grammar school was started . 
Mr. Gillespie then read the application of the other candidate , Andrew J. Williams . 
You have heard the readin' of the applications , said the chairman . 
If nobody else has anything to obse've , I will make a few remarks . 
Mr. Gillespie cleared his throat , and , assuming an oratorical attitude , proceeded The time has come in the history of our people when we should stand together . 
In this age of organization the march of progress requires that we help ourselves , or be forever left behind . 
They can't be lawyers or doctors yet , because we haven't got the money to send 'em to medical colleges an' law schools . 
We can't elect many of 'em to office , for various reasons . 
There's just two things they can find to do to preach in our own pulpits , an' teach in our own schools . 
If it wasn't for that , they'd have to go on forever waitin' on white folks , like their fo'fathers have done , because they couldn't help it . 
If we expect our race to progress , we must educate our young men an' women . 
If we want to encourage 'em to get education , we must find 'em employment when they are educated . 
Of co'se there are two sides to the question . 
We have got to consider the claims of Miss Noble . 
She has been with us a long time an' has done much good work for our people , an' we'll never forget her work an' frien'ship . 
If she don't get this school , there's probably a dozen others she can get at the North . 
Now , gentlemen , that's the situation . 
Shall we keep Miss Noble , or shall we stand by our own people ? It seems to me there can hardly be but one answer . 
Self preservation is the first law of nature . 
Are there any other remarks ? Old Abe was moving restlessly in his seat . 
He did not say anything , however , and the chairman turned to the other member . 
We all have nothin' but kind feelin's fer Miss Noble , an' I came here to night somewhat undecided how to vote on this question . 
As a business man , I am inclined to think Brother Glaspy is right . 
There was no intention of cuttin' you off . 
The committee will be please' to have you ventilate yo' views . 
Ef I should try ter tell all de things dat Miss Noble has done fer de niggers er dis town , it'd take me till ter morrer mawnin' . 
Fer fifteen long yeahs I has watched her incomin's an' her outgoin's . 
Her daddy was a Yankee kunnel , who died fighting fer ou' freedom . 
She come heah when we yas , Mr. Chuhman , when you an' Br'er Cotten was jes sot free , an' when none er us didn' have a rag ter ou' backs . 
She come heah , an' she tuk yo' child'n an' my child'n , an' she teached 'em sense an' manners an' religion an' book l'arnin' . 
When she come heah we didn' hab no chu'ch . 
An' I can 'member , Br'er Cotten , when you didn' own fo' houses an' a fahm . 
Let him wait ef I reads de signs right he won't hab ter wait long fer dis job . 
Let him teach in de primary schools , er in de country an' ef he can't do dat , let 'im work awhile . 
But don't let de fus thing we do as a committee be somethin' we ought ter be 'shamed of as long as we lib . 
I votes fer Miss Noble , fus , las' , an' all de time ! When Old Abe sat down the chairman's face bore a troubled look . 
For they had loved one another much , and her death had been to them both a hard and bitter thing . 
The house was lighted , so they knew she had not gone to bed . 
They went in at the gate , and Cotten knocked at the door . 
The colored maid opened it . 
Is Miss Noble home ? said Cotten . 
She's waitin' ter hear from the committee . 
The woman showed them into the parlor . 
Miss Noble rose from her seat by the table , where she had been reading , and came forward to meet them . 
They did not for a moment observe , as she took a step toward them , that her footsteps wavered . 
In her agitation she was scarcely aware of it herself . 
Miss Noble , announced Cotten , we have come to let you know that you have be'n 'lected teacher of the grammar school fer the next year . 
Thank you oh , thank you so much ! she said . 
Mary she put her hand to her side suddenly and tottered Mary , will you A spasm of pain contracted her face and cut short her speech . 
She would have fallen had Old Abe not caught her and , with Mary's help , laid her on a couch . 
The remedies applied by Mary , and by the physician who was hastily summoned , proved unavailing . 
The teacher did not regain consciousness . 
TWO weeks after Miss Noble's funeral the other candidate took charge of the grammar school , which went on without any further obstacles to the march of progress . 
Curious it was , too , how this deeper question ever forced itself to the surface , despite effort and disclaimer . 
No sooner had the armies , east and west , penetrated Virginia and Tennessee than fugitive slaves appeared within their lines . 
Two methods of treating these newcomers seemed equally logical to opposite sorts of minds . 
Said some , We have nothing to do with slaves . 
Hereafter , commanded Halleck , no slaves should be allowed to come into your lines at all if any come without your knowledge , when owners call for them , deliver them . 
But others said , We take grain and fowl why not slaves ? Whereupon Fremont , as early as August , , declared the slaves of Missouri rebels free . 
Evidently , too , slaves were a source of strength to the Confederacy , and were being used as laborers and producers . 
They constitute a military resource , wrote the Secretary of War , late in and being such , that they should not be turned over to the enemy is too plain to discuss . 
So the tone of the army chiefs changed , Congress forbade the rendition of fugitives , and Butler's contrabands were welcomed as military laborers . 
This complicated rather than solved the problem for now the scattering fugitives became a steady stream , which flowed faster as the armies marched . 
Then the long headed man , with care chiseled face , who sat in the White House , saw the inevitable , and emancipated the slaves of rebels on New Year's , . 
A month later Congress called earnestly for the Negro soldiers whom the act of July , , had half grudgingly allowed to enlist . 
Thus the barriers were leveled , and the deed was done . 
Being specially detailed from the ranks to care for the freedmen at Fortress Monroe , he afterward founded the celebrated Port Royal experiment and started the Freedmen's Aid Societies . 
Thus , under the timid Treasury officials and bold army officers , Pierce's plan widened and developed . 
Centres of massed freedmen arose at Fortress Monroe , Va . 
, Washington , D. C. , Beaufort and Port Royal , S. C. , New Orleans , La . 
, Vicksburg and Corinth , Miss . 
, and elsewhere , and the army chaplains found here new and fruitful fields . 
Then came the Freedmen's Aid Societies , born of the touching appeals for relief and help from these centres of distress . 
All they did was needed , for the destitution of the freedmen was often reported as too appalling for belief , and the situation was growing daily worse rather than better . 
And daily , too , it seemed more plain that this was no ordinary matter of temporary relief , but a national crisis for here loomed a labor problem of vast dimensions . 
Masses of Negroes stood idle , or , if they worked spasmodically , were never sure of pay and if perchance they received pay , squandered the new thing thoughtlessly . 
In these and in other ways were camp life and the new liberty demoralizing the freedmen . 
The broader economic organization thus clearly demanded sprang up here and there as accident and local conditions determined . 
Here again Pierce's Port Royal plan of leased plantations and guided workmen pointed out the rough way . 
General Dix gave over estates to the freedmen of Fortress Monroe , and so on through the South . 
The government and the benevolent societies furnished the means of cultivation , and the Negro turned again slowly to work . 
It made out pay rolls , registered all freedmen , inquired into grievances and redressed them , laid and collected taxes , and established a system of public schools . 
So too Colonel Eaton , the superintendent of Tennessee and Arkansas , ruled over , , leased and cultivated acres of cotton land , and furnished food for , paupers . 
In South Carolina was General Saxton , with his deep interest in black folk . 
Three characteristic things one might have seen in Sherman's raid through Georgia , which threw the new situation in deep and shadowy relief the Conqueror , the Conquered , and the Negro . 
Some see all significance in the grim front of the destroyer , and some in the bitter sufferers of the lost cause . 
There too came the characteristic military remedy The islands from Charleston south , the abandoned ricefields along the rivers for thirty miles back from the sea , and the country bordering the St . 
John's River , Florida , are reserved and set apart for the settlement of Negroes now made free by act of war . 
So read the celebrated field order . 
All these experiments , orders , and systems were bound to attract and perplex the government and the nation . 
Directly after the Emancipation Proclamation , Representative Eliot had introduced a bill creating a Bureau of Emancipation , but it was never reported . 
Some half hearted steps were early taken by the government to put both freedmen and abandoned estates under the supervision of the Treasury officials . 
This bill passed , but too late for action in the House . 
The debate wandered over the whole policy of the administration and the general question of slavery , without touching very closely the specific merits of the measure in hand . 
Meantime the election took place , and the administration , returning from the country with a vote of renewed confidence , addressed itself to the matter more seriously . 
The bill was conservative , giving the new department general superintendence of all freedmen . 
It was to establish regulations for them , protect them , lease them lands , adjust their wages , and appear in civil and military courts as their next friend . 
There were many limitations attached to the powers thus granted , and the organization was made permanent . 
Nevertheless , the Senate defeated the bill , and a new conference committee was appointed . 
This last compromise was a hasty bit of legislation , vague and uncertain in outline . 
A commissioner , appointed by the President and Senate , was to control the Bureau , with an office force not exceeding ten clerks . 
The President might also appoint commissioners in the seceded states , and to all these offices military officials might be detailed at regular pay . 
Thus did the United States government definitely assume charge of the emancipated Negro as the ward of the nation . 
It was a tremendous undertaking . 
Any man might well have hesitated to assume charge of such a work , with vast responsibilities , indefinite powers , and limited resources . 
Less than a month after the weary emancipator passed to his rest , his successor assigned Major General Oliver O. Howard to duty as commissioner of the new Bureau . 
He was a Maine man , then only thirty five years of age . 
He had marched with Sherman to the sea , had fought well at Gettysburg , and had but a year before been assigned to the command of the Department of Tennessee . 
On May , , Howard was appointed , and he assumed the duties of his office promptly on the th , and began examining the field of work . 
The Bureau invited continued cooperation with benevolent societies , and declared , It will be the object of all commissioners to introduce practicable systems of compensated labor , and to establish schools . 
Forthwith nine assistant commissioners were appointed . 
First , there were the abandoned lands of the South . 
But this poetry done into solemn prose meant either wholesale confiscation of private property in the South , or vast appropriations . 
The second difficulty lay in perfecting the local organization of the Bureau throughout the wide field of work . 
Thus , after a year's work , vigorously as it was pushed , the problem looked even more difficult to grasp and solve than at the beginning . 
The annals of this Ninth Crusade are yet to be written , the tale of a mission that seemed to our age far more quixotic than the quest of St . 
Behind the mists of ruin and rapine waved the calico dresses of women who dared , and after the hoarse mouthings of the field guns rang the rhythm of the alphabet . 
Rich and poor they were , serious and curious . 
They did their work well . 
In that first year they taught , souls , and more . 
Evidently , Congress must soon legislate again on the hastily organized Bureau , which had so quickly grown into wide significance and vast possibilities . 
An institution such as that was well nigh as difficult to end as to begin . 
Early in Congress took up the matter , when Senator Trumbull , of Illinois , introduced a bill to extend the Bureau and enlarge its powers . 
This measure received , at the hands of Congress , far more thorough discussion and attention than its predecessor . 
The war cloud had thinned enough to allow a clearer conception of the work of emancipation . 
The bill which finally passed enlarged and made permanent the Freedmen's Bureau . 
It was promptly vetoed by President Johnson , as unconstitutional , unnecessary , and extrajudicial , and failed of passage over the veto . 
Meantime , however , the breach between Congress and the President began to broaden , and a modified form of the lost bill was finally passed over the President's second veto , July . 
The act of gave the Freedmen's Bureau its final form , the form by which it will be known to posterity and judged of men . 
It was thus that the Freedmen's Bureau became a full fledged government of men . 
Then , amid all this crouched the freed slave , bewildered between friend and foe . 
They welcomed freedom with a cry . 
They fled to the friends that had freed them . 
They shrank from the master who still strove for their chains . 
So the cleft between the white and black South grew . 
Idle to say it never should have been it was as inevitable as its results were pitiable . 
Thus it is doubly difficult to write of this period calmly , so intense was the feeling , so mighty the human passions , that swayed and blinded men . 
There were , in , Bureau officials scattered from Washington to Texas , ruling , directly and indirectly , many millions of men . 
Up to June , , over half a million patients had been treated by Bureau physicians and surgeons , and sixty hospitals and asylums had been in operation . 
In fifty months of work , , free rations were distributed at a cost of over , , , beginning at the rate of , rations a day in , and discontinuing in . 
Next came the difficult question of labor . 
First , , black men were transported from the refuges and relief stations back to the farms , back to the critical trial of a new way of working . 
Plain , simple instructions went out from Washington , the freedom of laborers to choose employers , no fixed rates of wages , no peonage or forced labor . 
So far so good but where local agents differed toto coelo in capacity and character , where the personnel was continually changing , the outcome was varied . 
The largest element of success lay in the fact that the majority of the freedmen were willing , often eager , to work . 
So contracts were written , , in a single state , laborers advised , wages guaranteed , and employers supplied . 
These were the Devil and the Deep Sea . 
In the work of establishing the Negroes as peasant proprietors the Bureau was severely handicapped , as I have shown . 
Nevertheless , something was done . 
Abandoned lands were leased so long as they remained in the hands of the Bureau , and a total revenue of , derived from black tenants . 
Some other lands to which the nation had gained title were sold , and public lands were opened for the settlement of the few blacks who had tools and capital . 
The vision of landowning , however , the righteous and reasonable ambition for forty acres and a mule which filled the freedmen's dreams , was doomed in most cases to disappointment . 
Yet , with help and striving , the Negro gained some land , and by , in the one state of Georgia , owned near , acres . 
The greatest success of the Freedmen's Bureau lay in the planting of the free school among Negroes , and the idea of free elementary education among all classes in the South . 
State superintendents of education were appointed , and by , children were in school . 
The opposition to Negro education was bitter in the South , for the South believed an educated Negro to be a dangerous Negro . 
Nevertheless , men strive to know . 
Such contributions , together with the buying of land and various other enterprises , showed that the ex slave was handling some free capital already . 
The chief initial source of this was labor in the army , and his pay and bounty as a soldier . 
Consequently , payments were accompanied by such frauds that Congress , by joint resolution in , put the whole matter in the hands of the Freedmen's Bureau . 
In two years , , was thus distributed to claimants , and in the end the sum exceeded , , . 
Even in this system , fraud was frequent but still the work put needed capital in the hands of practical paupers , and some , at least , was well spent . 
The most perplexing and least successful part of the Bureau's work lay in the exercise of its judicial functions . 
The former masters of the land were peremptorily ordered about , seized and imprisoned , and punished over and again , with scant courtesy from army officers . 
The former slaves were intimidated , beaten , raped , and butchered by angry and revengeful men . 
Bureau courts tended to become centres simply for punishing whites , while the regular civil courts tended to become solely institutions for perpetuating the slavery of blacks . 
It is all well enough for us of another generation to wax wise with advice to those who bore the burden in the heat of the day . 
All this is easy , but it is neither sensible nor just . 
Had that control been from within , the Negro would have been reenslaved , to all intents and purposes . 
The regular Bureau court consisted of one representative of the employer , one of the Negro , and one of the Bureau . 
On the other hand , to leave the Negro in the hands of Southern courts was impossible . 
What the Freedmen's Bureau cost the nation is difficult to determine accurately . 
Its methods of bookkeeping were not good , and the whole system of its work and records partook of the hurry and turmoil of the time . 
General Howard himself disbursed some , , during his incumbency but this includes the bounties paid colored soldiers , which perhaps should not be counted as an expense of the Bureau . 
In bounties , prize money , and all other expenses , the Bureau disbursed over , , before all of its departments were finally closed . 
Such was the work of the Freedmen's Bureau . 
Its successes were the result of hard work , supplemented by the aid of philanthropists and the eager striving of black men . 
Its failures were the result of bad local agents , inherent difficulties of the work , and national neglect . 
The Freedmen's Bureau expired by limitation in , save its educational and bounty departments . 
The educational work came to an end in , and General Howard's connection with the Bureau ceased at that time . 
The work of paying bounties was transferred to the adjutant general's office , where it was continued three or four years longer . 
Such an institution , from its wide powers , great responsibilities , large control of moneys , and generally conspicuous position , was naturally open to repeated and bitter attacks . 
It sustained a searching congressional investigation at the instance of Fernando Wood in . 
It was , with blunt discourtesy , transferred from Howard's control , in his absence , to the supervision of Secretary of War Belknap in , on the Secretary's recommendation . 
Finally , in consequence of grave intimations of wrongdoing made by the Secretary and his subordinates , General Howard was court martialed in . 
In each of these trials , and in other attacks , the commissioner of the Freedmen's Bureau was exonerated from any willful misdoing , and his work heartily commended . 
Yet it is but fair to say that the perfect honesty of purpose and unselfish devotion of General Howard have passed untarnished through the fire of criticism . 
The most bitter attacks on the Freedmen's Bureau were aimed not so much at its conduct or policy under the law as at the necessity for any such organization at all . 
by a grant of unconstitutional power . 
The argument was of tremendous strength , but its very strength was its weakness . 
The alternative offered the nation then was not between full and restricted Negro suffrage else every sensible man , black and white , would easily have chosen the latter . 
It was rather a choice between suffrage and slavery , after endless blood and gold had flowed to sweep human bondage away . 
In such a situation , the granting of the ballot to the black man was a necessity , the very least a guilty nation could grant a wronged race . 
That such an institution was unthinkable in was due in part to certain acts of the Freedmen's Bureau itself . 
It came to regard its work as merely temporary , and Negro suffrage as a final answer to all present perplexities . 
So the Freedmen's Bureau died , and its child was the Fifteenth Amendment . 
The passing of a great human institution before its work is done , like the untimely passing of a single soul , but leaves a legacy of striving for other men . 
The legacy of the Freedmen's Bureau is the heavy heritage of this generation . 
In the most cultured sections and cities of the South the Negroes are a segregated servile caste , with restricted rights and privileges . 
Before the courts , both in law and custom , they stand on a different and peculiar basis . 
Taxation without representation is the rule of their political life . 
And the result of all this is , and in nature must have been , lawlessness and crime . 
That is the large legacy of the Freedmen's Bureau , the work it did not do because it could not . 
I have seen a land right merry with the sun where children sing , and rolling hills lie like passioned women , wanton with harvest . 
And there in the King's Highway sat and sits a figure , veiled and bowed , by which the traveler's footsteps hasten as they go . 
On the tainted air broods fear . 
Three centuries' thought has been the raising and unveiling of that bowed human heart , and now , behold , my fellows , a century new for the duty and the deed . 
The problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the color line . 
Hence arises a new human unity , pulling the ends of earth nearer , and all men , black , yellow , and white . 
To be sure , behind this thought lurks the afterthought of force and dominion , the making of brown men to delve when the temptation of beads and red calico cloys . 
This is the tangle of thought and afterthought wherein we are called to solve the problem of training men for life . 
Behind all its curiousness , so attractive alike to sage and dilettante , lie its dim dangers , throwing across us shadows at once grotesque and awful . 
Again , we may decry the color prejudice of the South , yet it remains a heavy fact . 
Such curious kinks of the human mind exist and must be reckoned with soberly . 
They cannot be laughed away , nor always successfully stormed at , nor easily abolished by act of legislature . 
And yet they cannot be encouraged by being let alone . 
They must be recognized as facts , but unpleasant facts things that stand in the way of civilization and religion and common decency . 
They can be met in but one way by the breadth and broadening of human reason , by catholicity of taste and culture . 
And so , too , the native ambition and aspiration of men , even though they be black , backward , and ungraceful , must not lightly be dealt with . 
To stimulate wildly weak and untrained minds is to play with mighty fires to flout their striving idly is to welcome a harvest of brutish crime and shameless lethargy in our very laps . 
The guiding of thought and the deft coordination of deed is at once the path of honor and humanity . 
Johnson blandly assured us that education was needed solely for the embellishments of life , and was useless for ordinary vermin . 
In rough approximation we may point out four varying decades of work in Southern education since the Civil War . 
From the close of the war until was the period of uncertain groping and temporary relief . 
There were army schools , mission schools , and schools of the Freedmen's Bureau in chaotic disarrangement , seeking system and cooperation . 
Then followed ten years of constructive definite effort toward the building of complete school systems in the South . 
Normal schools and colleges were founded for the freedmen , and teachers trained there to man the public schools . 
There was the inevitable tendency of war to underestimate the prejudice of the master and the ignorance of the slave , and all seemed clear sailing out of the wreckage of the storm . 
Meantime , starting in this decade yet especially developing from to , began the industrial revolution of the South . 
The land saw glimpses of a new destiny and the stirring of new ideals . 
The educational system striving to complete itself saw new obstacles and a field of work ever broader and deeper . 
Especially has criticism been directed against the former educational efforts to aid the Negro . 
This development has been sharply ridiculed as a logical anomaly and flat reversal of nature . 
That a system logically so complete was historically impossible , it needs but a little thought to prove . 
Thus it was no accident that gave birth to universities centuries before the common schools , that made fair Harvard the first flower of our wilderness . 
So in the South the mass of the freedmen at the end of the war lacked the intelligence so necessary to modern workingmen . 
They must first have the common school to teach them to read , write , and cipher . 
The white teachers who flocked South went to establish such a common school system . 
They had no idea of founding colleges they themselves at first would have laughed at the idea . 
But they faced , as all men since them have faced , that central paradox of the South , the social separation of the races . 
Then it was the sudden volcanic rupture of nearly all relations between black and white , in work and government and family life . 
Southern whites would not teach them Northern whites in sufficient numbers could not be had . 
If the Negro was to learn , he must teach himself , and the most effective help that could be given him was the establishment of schools to train Negro teachers . 
Such higher training schools tended naturally to deepen broader development at first they were common and grammar schools , then some became high schools . 
And finally , by , some thirty four had one year or more of studies of college grade . 
This development was reached with different degrees of speed in different institutions Hampton is still a high school , while Fisk University started her college in , and Spelman Seminary about . 
Among white Southerners this feeling is widespread and positive . 
A prominent Southern journal voiced this in a recent editorial The experiment that has been made to give the colored students classical training has not been satisfactory . 
The whole scheme has proved a waste of time , efforts , and the money of the state . 
We must not forget that most Americans answer all queries regarding the Negro a priori , and that the least that human courtesy can do is to listen to evidence . 
And this latter question can be settled in but one way by a first hand study of the facts . 
This was the gift of New England to the freed Negro not alms , but a friend not cash , but character . 
The teachers in these institutions came not to keep the Negroes in their place , but to raise them out of their places where the filth of slavery had wallowed them . 
The colleges they founded were social settlements homes where the best of the sons of the freedmen came in close and sympathetic touch with the best traditions of New England . 
They lived and ate together , studies and worked , hoped and harkened in the dawning light . 
In actual formal content their curriculum was doubtless old fashioned , but in educational power it was supreme , for it was the contact of living souls . 
From such schools about two thousand Negroes have gone forth with the bachelor's degree . 
The number in itself is enough to put at rest the argument that too large a proportion of Negroes are receiving higher training . 
Fifty years ago the ability of Negro students in any appreciable numbers to master a modern college course would have been difficult to prove . 
Here we have , then , nearly twenty five hundred Negro graduates , of whom the crucial query must be made . 
In , the Conference at Atlanta University undertook to study these graduates , and published the results . 
First they sought to know what these graduates were doing , and succeeded in getting answers from nearly two thirds of the living . 
The direct testimony was in almost all cases corroborated by the reports of the colleges where they graduated , so that in the main the reports were worthy of credence . 
Fifty three per cent of these graduates were teachers , presidents of institutions , heads of normal schools , principals of city school systems , and the like . 
Seventeen per cent were clergymen another seventeen per cent were in the professions , chiefly as physicians . 
Over six per cent were merchants , farmers , and artisans , and four per cent were in the government civil service . 
Granting even that a considerable proportion of the third unheard from are unsuccessful , this is a record of usefulness . 
With all their larger vision and deeper sensibility , these men have usually been conservative , careful leaders . 
They have seldom been agitators , have withstood the temptation to head the mob , and have worked steadily and faithfully in a thousand communities in the South . 
As teachers they have given the South a commendable system of city schools and large numbers of private normal schools and academies . 
All this is needful work . 
But such transformation calls for singular wisdom and patience . 
It will demand broad minded , upright men both white and black , and in its final accomplishment American civilization will triumph . 
So far as white men are concerned , this fact is to day being recognized in the South , and a happy renaissance of university education seems imminent . 
But the very voices that cry Hail ! to this good work are , strange to relate , largely silent or antagonistic to the higher education of the Negro . 
Strange to relate ! for this is certain , no secure civilization can be built in the South with the Negro as an ignorant , turbulent proletariat . 
From Southern Negro colleges there were , in the same three periods , , , and over graduates . 
Such waste of energy cannot be spared if the South is to catch up with civilization . 
Even to day the masses of the Negroes see all too clearly the anomalies of their position and the moral crookedness of yours . 
That one wise method of doing this lies in the closer knitting of the Negro to the great industrial possibilities of the South is a great truth . 
And this the common schools and the manual training and trade schools are working to accomplish . 
But these alone are not enough . 
The foundations of knowledge in this race , as in others , must be sunk deep in the college and university if we would build a solid , permanent structure . 
We shall hardly induce black men to believe that if their bellies be full it matters little about their brains . 
And finally , beyond all this , it must develop men . 
Such souls aforetime have inspired and guided worlds , and if we be not wholly bewitched by our Rhine gold , they shall again . 
I sit with Shakespeare and he winces not . 
Across the color line I move arm in arm with Balzac and Dumas , where smiling men and welcoming women glide in gilded halls . 
So , wed with Truth , I dwell above the Veil . 
The education of the race was conducted quietly , and attracted comparatively little attention , just as is true at the present time . 
At practically every point where there was a political question to be decided in the South the blacks would array themselves on one side and the whites on the other . 
I remember that very soon after I began teaching school in Alabama an old colored man came to me just prior to an election . 
He added I tell you how we does . 
We watches de white man we keeps watching de white man de nearer it gits to election time de more we watches de white man . 
We watches him till we finds out which way he gwine to vote . 
After we finds out which way he gwine to vote , den we votes exactly de other way den we knows we 's right . 
Unfortunately such antagonism did not end with matters political , but in many cases affected the relation of the races in nearly every walk of life . 
Aside from political strife , there was naturally deep feeling between the North and the South on account of the war . 
On nearly every question growing out of the war , which was debated in Congress , or in political campaigns , there was the keenest difference and often the deepest feeling . 
It is needless to say that in many cases the Negro was the sufferer . 
He was being ground between the upper and nether millstones . 
Few of the great Republican leaders appear on Southern platforms , because they feel that nothing will be gained . 
I speak of this man as my friend , because there was no personal favor in reason which he would have refused me . 
He was equally friendly to the race , and was generous in giving for its education , and in helping individuals to buy land . 
His campaign took him into one of the white counties , where there were few colored people , and where the whites were unusually ignorant . 
I was surprised one morning to read in the daily papers of a bitter attack he had made on the Negro while speaking in this county . 
The next time I saw him I informed him of my surprise . 
The white teachers , who came from the North to work in missionary schools , received for years little recognition or encouragement from the rank and file of their own race . 
I want to call attention here to a phase of Reconstruction policy which is often overlooked . 
All now agree that there was much in Reconstruction which was unwise and unfortunate . 
Much that was done by those in charge of Reconstruction legislation has been overturned , but the public school system still remains . 
True , it has been modified and improved , but the system remains , and is every day growing in popularity and strength . 
It is and has been very generally thought that what is termed higher education of the Negro has been from the first opposed by the white South . 
This opinion is far from being correct . 
I heard no one oppose what he thought our course of study was to embrace . 
In fact , there are many white people in the South at the present time who do not know that instruction in the dead languages is not given at the Tuskegee Institute . 
This was true as far back as . 
It is not unusual to meet at this time Southern white people who are as emphatic in their belief in the value of classical education as a certain element of colored people themselves . 
But the breach between the white churches in the South and North remains . 
In matters of education the difference was much less sharp . 
The truth is that a large element in the South had little faith in the efficacy of the higher or any other kind of education of the Negro . 
This element has thus far been successful in shaping and leading public opinion , and I think that it will continue to do so more and more . 
In discussing the small amount of direct taxes the Negro pays , the fact that he pays tremendous indirect taxes is often overlooked . 
This was , at the least , something in the way of construction . 
Many people , I think , fail to appreciate the difference between the problems now before us and those that existed previous to the civil war . 
Slavery presented a problem of destruction freedom presents a problem of construction . 
They naturally had not learned to appreciate the fact that they had been WORKED , and that one of the great lessons for freemen to learn is to WORK . 
They had not learned the vast difference between WORKING and BEING WORKED . 
Furthermore , industrial education appealed directly to the individual and community interest of the white people . 
They saw at once that intelligence coupled with skill would add wealth to the community and to the state , in which both races would have an added share . 
There was no family whose interest in intelligent and skillful nursing was not now and then quickened by the presence of a trained nurse . 
For some time it has been his custom to prepare articles containing information concerning the conditions of local crops , and warning the farmers against the ravages of certain insects and diseases . 
The local white papers are always glad to publish these articles , and they are read by white and colored farmers . 
Some months ago a white land holder in Montgomery County asked Mr. Carver to go through his farm with him for the purpose of inspecting it . 
While doing so Mr. Carver discovered traces of what he thought was a valuable mineral deposit , used in making a certain kind of paint . 
The interests of the land owner and the agricultural instructor at once became mutual . 
Specimens of the deposits were taken to the laboratories of the Tuskegee Institute and analyzed by Mr. Carver . 
In due time the land owner received a report of the analysis , together with a statement showing the commercial value and application of the mineral . 
I hardly need to add that Mr. Carver has been freely consulted at every step , and his services generously recognized in the organization of the concern . 
Ferric oxides have long been recognized as the essential constituents of such paints as Venetian red , Turkish red , oxide red , Indian red , and scarlet . 
They are most desirable , being quite permanent when exposed to light and air . 
As a stain they are most valuable . 
Wallace Buttrick , Mr. John D. Rockefeller , of the North , and Mr. Edgar Gardner Murphy , Chancellor Hill , Dr . 
Dabney , and others of the South , will have furnished the material for one of the brightest and most encouraging chapters in the history of our country . 
It is true that as yet the Negro has not been invited to share in these discussions . 
Many realized that the South would be tying itself to a body of death if it did not help the Negro up . 
In this connection I want to call attention to the fact that the official records show that within one year about one million foreigners came into the United States . 
One ship sometimes brings as many to New York . 
Various reasons are given to explain why these foreigners systematically avoid the South . 
This phase of it has proved of interest in making hand training a conciliatory element between the races . 
In I was delivering an address on industrial education before the colored State Teachers' Association of one of our Southern states . 
When I had finished , some of the teachers began to ask the State Superintendent of Education , who was on the programme , some questions about the subject . 
He politely but firmly stopped the questions by stating that he knew absolutely nothing about industrial training , and had never heard it discussed before . 
At that time there was no such education being given at any white institution in that state . 
With one or two exceptions this case will illustrate what was true of all the Southern states . 
Manual training or industrial and technical schools for the whites have , for the most part , been established under state auspices , and are at this time chiefly maintained by the states . 
It was often argued that the white boys and girls would be left behind unless they had the opportunities for securing the same kind of training that was being given the colored people . 
Any one who has not looked into the subject will be surprised to find how thorough and high grade the work is . 
I have met no Southern white educators who have not been generous in their praise of the Negro schools for taking the initiative in hand training . 
This fact has again served to create in matters relating to education a bond of sympathy between the two races in the South . 
It was the first school of high literary grade to introduce courses in Domestic Science into the regular curriculum . 
The results were so gratifying as to lead to the equipment of Experiment Hall , a special building , fitted for the purpose of studying the principles of Applied Housekeeping . 
Here the girls do the actual work of cooking , marketing , arranging menus , and attend to all the affairs of a well arranged household . 
Courses are arranged also in sewing , dressmaking , and millinery they are conducted on a similarly practical basis , and equip the student with a thorough knowledge of the subject . 
A dozen years ago I do not believe that any such announcement would have been made . 
Both before and since he became President I have had many conversations with him , and at all times I have found him enthusiastic over the plan that I have described . 
The sight of this body of men and women would surprise a large part of American citizens who do not really know the better side of the Negro's life . 
Most of those who manifested such opposition were actuated by the highest and most honest motives . 
From the first the rank and file of the blacks were quick to see the advantages of industrial training , as is shown by the fact that industrial schools have always been overcrowded . 
Again , others opposed it because they feared that it meant the abandonment of all political privileges , and the higher or classical education of the race . 
They feared that the final outcome would be the materialization of the Negro , and the smothering of his spiritual and aesthetic nature . 
Others felt that industrial education had for its object the limitation of the Negro's development , and the branding him for all time as a special hand working class . 
Industrial education in this generation is contributing in the highest degree to make what is called higher education a success . 
It is now realized that in so far as the race has intelligent and skillful producers , the greater will be the success of the minister , lawyer , doctor , and teacher . 
It is now seen that the result of such education will be to help the black man to make for himself an independent place in our great American life . 
The official reports show that in Saxony , Germany , alone , there are industrial schools , or one such school to every , people . 
This is true of a people who have back of them centuries of wealth and culture . 
In the South I am safe in saying that there is not more than one effective industrial school for every , colored people . 
A recent dispatch from Germany says that the German Emperor has had a kitchen fitted up in the palace for the single purpose of having his daughter taught cooking . 
This had already been demonstrated in Louisiana by colored regiments under the command of General Godfrey Weitzel in the attack upon Port Hudson on May of the same year . 
After that there was no more talk in the portion of the country of the natural cowardice of the negro . 
Colonel Shaw's raising of a colored regiment aroused quite as much comment in the North because of the race prejudice it defied , as because of the novelty of the new organization . 
General Weitzel tendered his resignation the instant General B. F. Butler assigned black soldiers to his brigade , and was with difficulty induced to serve on . 
His change of mind was a wise one , and not only because these colored soldiers covered him with glory at Port Hudson . 
It was his good fortune to be the central figure in one of the dramatic incidents of a war that must ever rank among the most thrilling and tragic the world has seen . 
, the feeling against negro troops was insurmountable until the last days of the struggle . 
Then no straw could be overlooked . 
When the army was again reduced in , the Thirty eighth and Forty first became the Twenty fourth Infantry , and the Thirty ninth and Fortieth became the Twenty fifth . 
This left four colored regiments in the regular army as it was constituted from until . 
There has never been a colored artillery organization in the regular service . 
To these new regiments came a motley mixture of veterans of volunteer organizations , newly released slaves , and some freedmen of several years' standing but without military experience . 
But if ever officers had to father and mother their soldiers they were the company officers of these regiments . 
The captains in particular had to be bankers , secretaries , advisers , and judges for their men . 
As Lieutenant Grote Hutcheson has stated it , The men knew nothing , and the non commissioned officers but little more . 
From the very circumstances of their preceding life it could not be otherwise . 
They had no independence , no self reliance , not a thought except for the present , and were filled with superstition . 
Yet the officers were determined to prove the wisdom of the experiment . 
To do this they were forced to give their own attention to the minutest details of military administration , and to act as non commissioned officers . 
The total lack of education among the men necessitated an enormous amount of writing by the officers . 
In the Ninth Cavalry only one man was found able to write well enough to be sergeant major , and not for several years was it possible to obtain troop clerks . 
When the Tenth Cavalry was being recruited an officer was sent to Philadelphia with the express purpose of picking up educated colored men for the non commissioned positions . 
As the years passed the character of the colored soldiers naturally changed . 
They depended less upon their officers , both in the barracks and in the field , yet they reverenced and cared for them as much as did their predecessors . 
Their greatest faults then as now were gambling and quarreling . 
On the other hand , the negro regiments speedily became favorably known because of greater sobriety and of fewer desertions than among the white soldiers . 
It was the Ninth Cavalry which a few years ago astonished the army by reporting not a single desertion in twelve months , an unheard of and perhaps undreamed of record . 
In all that goes to make a good soldier , in drill , fidelity , and smartness , the negro regular from the first took front rank . 
Nor was there ever any lack of the fighting quality which had gratified the nation at Fort Wagner , or at Fort Blakely , Ala . 
, where the Seventy third Colored Infantry , under Colonel Henry C. Merriam , stormed the enemy's works , in advance of orders , in one of the last actions of the war . 
In September , , a little over two years after their organization , three troops of the Ninth Cavalry did well in an action against Indians at Horsehead Hills , Texas . 
On one of these campaigns Lieutenant Powhatan H. Clarke gave effective proof of the affection which the officers of colored regiments have for their men . 
For this gallant act Lieutenant Clarke rightly received a medal of honor . 
The Twenty fourth Infantry , on the other hand , has contributed a striking instance of the devotion of colored soldiers to their officers . 
Some of them stood their ground although badly wounded , notably Sergeant Benjamin Brown , who continued to fight and to encourage his men until shot through both arms . 
Five of the medal of honor men now in the service are colored soldiers , while fifteen others have certificates of merit also awarded for conspicuous deeds of bravery . 
It was not until the battle of Santiago , however , that the bulk of the American people realized that the standing army comprised regiments composed wholly of black men . 
Up to that time only one company of colored soldiers had served at a post east of the Mississippi . 
This feat was the more remarkable because Major Henry's command had just completed a march of more than one hundred miles in twenty four hours . 
But in the battle at Santiago , the four colored regiments won praise from all sides , particularly for their advance upon Kettle Hill , in which the Rough Riders also figured . 
From the very beginning of the movement of the army after its landing , the negro troops were in the front of the fighting , and contributed largely to the successful result . 
Although they suffered heavy losses , especially in officers , the men fought with the same gallantry they had displayed on the plains , as is attested by the honors awarded . 
In every company there were instances of personal gallantry . 
The first sergeants especially lived up to the responsibilities placed upon them . 
In several emergencies where troops or companies lost their white officers , the senior sergeants took command and handled their men in a faultless manner , notably in the Tenth Cavalry . 
Indeed , the conduct of these men has done much to dispel the old belief that colored soldiers will fight only when they have efficient white officers . 
This may well have been true at one period of the civil war when the colored race as a whole had never even had the responsibilities attaching to free men . 
It is growing less and less true as time passes and better educated men enter the ranks . 
None of these organizations were in service long enough to become really efficient , and a few were never properly disciplined . 
Nevertheless , a majority of the officers promoted from the colored regulars bore themselves well under exceedingly trying circumstances . 
At Santiago the characteristic cheerfulness of the negro soldiers was as striking as their bravery . 
In his little book called The Nth Foot In War , Lieutenant M. B. Stewart says of them The negro troops were in a high good humor . 
To have heard them that night no one would have ever thought that they had lived for twelve mortal hours under a galling fire . 
They were laughing and joking over the events of the day , in the same manner they would have done had they been returning from a picnic . 
'Golly , laughed a six foot sergeant , 'dere was music in de air sho' nuff . 
Dat lead was flying around in sheets , I tell you . 
I seen a buzzard flying around in front of our line , and I says to myself , Buzzard , you is in a mighty dangerous position . 
You better git out uf dat , 'cause dey ain't room out dar for a muskeeter . 
Another remarked , 'Say , did you see dat man Brown pity dat man been killed . 
He'd a been a corporal , sho . 
In the utter exhaustion of the moment all race and social distinctions were forgotten . 
Officers lay down among their men and slept like logs . 
The negro troops sought out soft places along the sides of the road and lay down with their white comrades . 
There was a little commotion among the latter , and an officer was heard to yell 'Here , you man , take your feet off my stomach . 
Well , I'll be damned if it ain't a nigger . 
Get out , you black rascal . 
As the commotion subsided , the negro was heard to remark , 'Well , if dat ain't de mos' particler man I ever see . 
You wants to look out for dese yere sharpshooters , for dey is mighty careless with dere weapons , and dey is specially careless when dey is officers aroun' . 
In the peaceful camp of the Third Alabama , in that state , the scenes were similar . 
There was always a steady hum of laughter and talk , dance , song , shout , and the twang of musical instruments . 
The colonel found great difficulty in getting men to work alone . 
Two would volunteer for any service . 
Colonel , said a visitor to the camp , your sentinels are sociable fellows . 
I saw No. over at the end of his beat entertaining No. with some fancy manual of arms . 
Afterwards , with equal amiability , No. executed a most artistic cake walk for his friend . 
It must be remembered here that this colonel's men were typical Southern negroes , literate and illiterate , and all new to military life . 
In addition to the Forty eighth and Forty ninth Volunteers , the four regular colored regiments have served in the Philippines . 
Here the work was particularly trying and the temptations to misconduct many . 
The Filipino women were especially attractive to the men because of their color , and it is on record that several soldiers were tempted from their allegiance to the United States . 
Two of these , whose sympathy and liking for the Filipinos overcame their judgment , paid the full penalty of desertion , being hanged by their former comrades . 
Both belonged to the Ninth Cavalry . 
During this time they were frequently under fire . 
General Burt bore high testimony to their soldierly bearing , their capacity and ability , and expressed great regret when he was forced to let them go . 
McBryar had won a medal of honor for gallantry against Indians in Arizona in . 
No white company remotely approached this record . 
More extraordinary still is the fact that during this same period not one of these men ever went before a court martial . 
This is surely a striking illustration of what can be done by colored officers . 
The Forty ninth Volunteers was a very unhappy regiment during its brief life , but its troubles were largely due to its white officers . 
One of these , a major , was dismissed for misconduct , and his place was filled by the senior captain , a colored man . 
Several other white officers and one colored captain got into serious trouble , the last being dismissed . 
The Forty eighth was , on the contrary , a contented organization in which the colored officers were treated in a kindly and courteous manner by their white associates and superiors . 
The two regiments afford a striking illustration of Napoleon's saying , There are no such things as poor regiments , only poor colonels . 
Yet as fighting machines , the Indian soldiers may be the equals if not the superiors of the Englishmen . 
They are so great , he says , as to require the military commander to treat the negro as a different species . 
He must fit his methods of instruction and discipline to the characteristics of the race . 
Yet this seems to have been the case in the Forty ninth United States Volunteers . 
To such appeals there is ever a prompt response . 
One of the most effective ways of disciplining an offender is by holding him up to the ridicule of his fellows . 
The desire of the colored soldiers to amuse and to be amused gives the officers an easy way of obtaining a hold upon them and their affections . 
The regimental rifle team , the baseball nine , the minstrel troupe , and the regimental band offer positions of importance for which the competition is much keener than in the white regiments . 
There is also a friendly rivalry between companies , which is much missed elsewhere in the service . 
The negroes are natural horsemen and riders . 
It is a pleasure to them to take care of their mounts , and a matter of pride to keep their animals in good condition . 
Personally they are clean and neat , and they take the greatest possible pride in their uniforms . 
In no white regiment is there a similar feeling . 
They would rather sit up and tell stories and crack jokes than go to bed , no matter how hard the day has been . 
Frequent failure to act honorably toward a comrade in some trifling matter is apt to cause scuffling and fighting until the men are well disciplined . 
Women are another cause of quarrels , and are at all times a potent temptation to misconduct and neglect of duty . 
It is very difficult to impress upon the men the value of government property , and duty which requires memorizing of orders is always the most difficult to teach . 
For the study of guard duty manuals or of tactics they have no natural aptitude . 
The non commissioned officers are of very great importance , and in the regulars they are looked up to and obeyed implicitly , much more so than is the case with white troops . 
It is necessary , however , for the officers to back up the sergeants and corporals very vigorously , even when they are slightly in the wrong . 
Then colored men are more easily rattled by poor officers than are their white comrades . 
There was a striking instance of this two or three years ago when a newly appointed and wholly untrained white officer lost his head at a post in Texas . 
His black subordinates , largely recruits , followed suit , and in carrying out his hysterical orders imperiled many lives in the neighboring town . 
Selections for service with colored troops should therefore be most carefully made . 
If the position of a white officer is a difficult one , that of the colored officer is still more so . 
While the United States Navy has hitherto been closed to negroes who aspire to be officers , the army has pursued a wiser and more just policy . 
The contrast between the two services is really remarkable . 
On almost every war vessel white and black sailors sleep and live together in crowded quarters without protest or friction . 
But the negro naval officer is kept out of the service by hook or by crook for the avowed reason that the cramped quarters of the wardroom would make association with him intolerable . 
In the army , on the other hand , the experiment of mixed regiments has never been tried . 
A good colored soldier can nevertheless obtain a commission by going through West Point , or by rising from the ranks , or by being appointed directly from civil life . 
Three were graduated and commissioned as second lieutenants of cavalry , Henry Ossian Flipper , John Hanks Alexander , and Charles Young . 
Of these , Lieutenant Flipper was dismissed June , , for conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman . 
Lieutenant Alexander died suddenly in . 
In announcing his death in a regimental order his colonel spoke of him in terms of high praise , and did not use the customary stereotyped phrases of regret . 
His fellow white officers all had good words for him . 
Nothing else has impressed foreign visitors at West Point half so much . 
Lieutenant Davis's former troop commander , a West Pointer , openly rejoiced at his success , and predicted that he would make an excellent officer . 
It was thought that there would be a severe strain upon discipline when a colored officer rose to the rank of captain and to the command of white officers . 
But in Captain Young's case his white subordinates seem to have realized that it is the position and rank that they are compelled to salute and obey , and not the individual . 
This principle is at the bottom of all discipline . 
Only too frequently do subordinates throughout the army have to remind themselves of this when obeying men for whose social qualities and character they have neither regard nor respect . 
During the war with Spain Captain Young commanded a negro battalion from Ohio , which was pronounced the best drilled organization in the large army assembled at Camp Alger near Washington . 
In addition to these officers , Captain John R. Lynch , formerly a Congressman from Mississippi , and four colored chaplains represent their race on the commissioned rolls of the army . 
All of these men are doing well . 
One colored chaplain was dismissed for drunkenness in . 
Beyond this their record is unblemished . 
Every colonel of volunteers was allowed to designate for examination for appointment to the regular army the best officers in his regiment . 
The excuse most often heard is that the negroes already have sufficient representation in comparison with the percentage of negroes to white persons within the borders of the United States . 
To say the least , the decision of the War Department smacks considerably of ingratitude . 
Nevertheless , the negro regiments have come to stay , both in the regulars and in the volunteers . 
The hostilities of the last five years have dispelled any doubt which may have existed upon this point . 
BAXTER'S PROCRUSTES by Charles W. Chesnutt Baxter's Procrustes is one of the publications of the Bodleian Club . 
The Bodleian Club is composed of gentlemen of culture , who are interested in books and book collecting . 
The Bodleian has entertained Mark Twain , Joseph Jefferson , and other literary and histrionic celebrities . 
Its library contains a number of rare books , including a fine collection on chess , of which game several of the members are enthusiastic devotees . 
The activities of the club are not , however , confined entirely to books . 
We have a very handsome clubhouse , and much taste and discrimination have been exercised in its adornment . 
There are many good paintings , including portraits of the various presidents of the club , which adorn the entrance hall . 
After books , perhaps the most distinctive feature of the club is our collection of pipes . 
A large supply of the very best smoking mixture is laid in . 
This ceremony facetiously known as hitting the pipe being thus concluded , the membership pipes are carefully cleaned out and replaced in the club rack . 
Even its catalogues are works of art , published in numbered editions , and sought by libraries and book collectors . 
The matter of contents was , it must be confessed , a less important consideration . 
At first it was felt by the publishing committee that nothing but the finest products of the human mind should be selected for enshrinement in the beautiful volumes which the club should issue . 
The length of the work was an important consideration , long things were not compatible with wide margins and graceful slenderness . 
For instance , we brought out Coleridge's Ancient Mariner , an essay by Emerson , and another by Thoreau . 
Our Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam was Heron Allen's translation of the original MS in the Bodleian Library at Oxford , which , though less poetical than FitzGerald's , was not so common . 
Several years ago we began to publish the works of our own members . 
Bascom's Essay on Pipes was a very creditable performance . 
The second publication of local origin was Baxter's Procrustes . 
I have omitted to say that once or twice a year , at a meeting of which notice has been given , an auction is held at the Bodleian . 
The members of the club send in their duplicate copies , or books they for any reason wish to dispose of , which are auctioned off to the highest bidder . 
At these sales , which are well attended , the club's publications have of recent years formed the leading feature . 
Three years ago , number three of Bascom's Essay on Pipes sold for fifteen dollars the original cost of publication was one dollar and seventy five cents . 
Later in the evening an uncut copy of the same brought thirty dollars . 
At the next auction the price of the cut copy was run up to twenty five dollars , while the uncut copy was knocked down at seventy five dollars . 
The club had always appreciated the value of uncut copies , but this financial indorsement enhanced their desirability immensely . 
This rise in the Essay on Pipes was not without a sympathetic effect upon all the club publications . 
The prices , thus inflated , were not permitted to come down appreciably . 
Since every member of the club possessed one or more of these valuable editions , they were all manifestly interested in keeping up the price . 
The publication , however , which brought the highest prices , and , but for the sober second thought , might have wrecked the whole system , was Baxter's Procrustes . 
Baxter was , perhaps , the most scholarly member of the club . 
He was about thirty five when he joined the club , and apparently some bitter experience some disappointment in love or ambition had left its mark upon his character . 
With light , curly hair , fair complexion , and gray eyes , one would have expected Baxter to be genial of temper , with a tendency toward wordiness of speech . 
What it might be no one knew . 
He had means and social position , and was an uncommonly handsome man . 
It had occurred to me , in a vague way , that perhaps Baxter might be an unsuccessful author . 
That he was a poet we knew very well , and typewritten copies of his verses had occasionally circulated among us . 
The notion of publishing Baxter's Procrustes did not emanate from Baxter , I must do him the justice to say this . 
As I , for one , gathered , it was quite along the line of Baxter's philosophy . 
The world was full of men and women who were merely square pegs in round holes , and vice versa . 
Most marriages were unhappy because the contracting parties were not properly mated . 
Life would soon become so monotonously uniform and so uniformly monotonous as to be scarce worth the living . 
It was Smith , I think , who first proposed that the club publish Baxter's Procrustes . 
The poet himself did not seem enthusiastic when the subject was broached he demurred for some little time , protesting that the poem was not worthy of publication . 
But when it was proposed that the edition be limited to fifty copies he agreed to consider the proposition . 
The manuscript was duly presented to the literary committee . 
The details of the bookmaking , however , were gone into thoroughly . 
The paper was to be of hand made linen , from the Kelmscott Mills the type black letter , with rubricated initials . 
Baxter was authorized to contract with the printer and superintend the publication . 
This impressed the members greatly . 
It was a novel idea . 
The possessor of such a treasure could enjoy it by the eye of imagination , having at the same time the exaltation of grasping what was for others the unattainable . 
The literary committee were so impressed with this idea that they presented it to Baxter in regard to the Procrustes . 
Baxter making no objection , the subscribers who might wish their copies delivered sealed were directed to notify the author . 
I sent in my name . 
When the Procrustes was ready for distribution , each subscriber received his copy by mail , in a neat pasteboard box . 
Each number was wrapped in a thin and transparent but very strong paper through which the cover design and tooling were clearly visible . 
Upon resolution , offered by a member who had not subscribed for the volume , a committee of three was appointed to review the Procrustes at the next literary meeting of the club . 
Of this committee it was my doubtful fortune to constitute one . 
In pursuance of my duty in the premises , it of course became necessary for me to read the Procrustes . 
At this meeting a copy of the book , still sealed , was offered for sale , and bought by a non subscriber for the unprecedented price of one hundred and fifty dollars . 
As I had no desire to appear mercenary , I said nothing about my own copy , and made no attempt to borrow . 
Baxter assured me , with every evidence of regret , that he had considered them of so little importance that he had thrown them into the fire . 
This indifference of Baxter to literary values struck me as just a little overdone . 
The proof sheets of Hamlet , corrected in Shakespeare's own hand , would be well nigh priceless . 
I presumed , of course , that Thompson and Davis had each read the book , they were among the subscribers , and I was desirous of getting their point of view . 
Well , replied Davis , it seemed to me a little cautiously , it is not exactly Spencerian , although it squints at the Spencerian view , with a slight deflection toward Hegelianism . 
I should consider it an harmonious fusion of the best views of all the modern philosophers , with a strong Baxterian flavor . 
Yes , said Thompson , the charm of the chapter lies in this very quality . 
The style is an emanation from Baxter's own intellect , he has written himself into the poem . 
Baxter had come in during this colloquy , and was standing by the fireplace smoking a pipe . 
I therefore drew no conclusions from Baxter's somewhat enigmatical smile . 
He left the room at this point in the conversation , somewhat to my relief . 
I think , I replied , that they are in harmony with those of Schopenhauer , without his bitterness with those of Nordau , without his flippancy . 
His materialism is Haeckel's , presented with something of the charm of Omar Khayyam . 
Yes , chimed in Davis , it answers the strenuous demand of our day , dissatisfaction with an unjustified optimism , and voices for us the courage of human philosophy facing the unknown . 
Quotation , like imitation , is a superior grade of flattery . 
To be appreciated the poem should be read as a whole , I shall say as much in my review . 
What shall you say of the letter press ? he concluded , addressing me . 
I was supposed to discuss the technical excellence of the volume from the connoisseur's viewpoint . 
The setting , I replied judicially , is worthy of the gem . 
The dark green cover , elaborately tooled , the old English lettering , the heavy linen paper , mark this as one of our very choicest publications . 
The letter press is of course De Vinne's best , there is nothing better on this side of the Atlantic . 
The text is a beautiful , slender stream , meandering gracefully through a wide meadow of margin . 
For some reason I left the room for a minute . 
What a ridiculous scene ! he remarked . 
He had covered up his delight at our appreciation by this simulated interest in the hunting print . 
The critical essays were well considered , if a trifle vague . 
Baxter received credit for poetic skill of a high order . 
Our brother Baxter , said Thompson , should no longer bury his talent in a napkin . 
This gem , of course , belongs to the club , but the same brain from which issued this exquisite emanation can produce others to inspire and charm an appreciative world . 
I then pointed out the beauties of the volume as a piece of bookmaking . 
I knew , from conversation with the publication committee , the style of type and rubrication , and could see the cover through the wrapper of my sealed copy . 
The dark green morocco , I said , in summing up , typified the author's serious view of life , as a thing to be endured as patiently as might be . 
The cap and bells border was significant of the shams by which the optimist sought to delude himself into the view that life was a desirable thing . 
Applying this test to the club , this work , which might be said to represent all that the Bodleian stood for , was in itself sufficient to justify the club's existence . 
If the Bodleian had done nothing else , if it should do nothing more , it had produced a masterpiece . 
When the last review was read , and the generous applause had subsided , there were cries for Baxter . 
But this outburst of enthusiasm was too much even for Baxter , and it was clear that he was struggling with strong emotion when he rose to speak . 
I thank you again , and again , and when I say that I am too full for utterance , I'm sure you will excuse me from saying any more . 
Baxter took his seat , and the applause had begun again when it was broken by a sudden exclamation . 
By Jove ! exclaimed our English visitor , who still sat behind the table , what an extraordinary book ! Every one gathered around him . 
Every one knew instinctively , without further investigation , that the club had been badly sold . 
He offered to pay all the bills for the sham Procrustes , or to replace the blank copies with the real thing , as we might choose . 
Of course , after such an insult , the club did not care for the poem . 
He was permitted to pay the expense , however , and it was more than hinted to him that his resignation from the club would be favorably acted upon . 
He never sent it in , and , as he went to Europe shortly afterwards , the affair had time to blow over . 
Baxter , said our president one evening to a select few of us who sat around the fireplace , was wiser than we knew , or than he perhaps appreciated . 
His Procrustes , from the collector's point of view , is entirely logical , and might be considered as the acme of bookmaking . 
To the true collector , a book is a work of art , of which the contents are no more important than the words of an opera . 
Fine binding is a desideratum , and , for its cost , that of the Procrustes could not be improved upon . 
The paper is above criticism . 
The true collector loves wide margins , and the Procrustes , being all margin , merely touches the vanishing point of the perspective . 
The smaller the edition , the greater the collector's eagerness to acquire a copy . 
There are but six uncut copies left , I am told , of the Procrustes , and three sealed copies , of one of which I am the fortunate possessor . 
Governor JAMES K. VARDAMAN , Mississippi , . 
They are creatures of brutal , untamed instincts , and uncontrolled feral passions , which give frequent expression of themselves in crimes of horrible ferocity . 
Because they are spatially in a civilization to which they are morally and intellectually repugnant , they cannot but be as a foreign irritant to the body social . 
is stated , or even fairly indicated , in the foregoing answer . 
We shall see why , presently . 
The statements just made demand immediate justification . 
For they are doubtless surprising to a degree , and to some readers may prove startling . 
The reason is not dissatisfaction with Negro labor , but simply that there is not enough of it to meet the requirements of the large plantations . 
No Negro is a sheriff , or judge , or justice of the peace , or grand or petit juryman , or member of a pardoning board . 
He is without means , except occasionally , to fight his case through appeals to higher courts , and errors sleep in many a record that on review would upset the verdict . 
The frequent charge that the Negro's worst crimes partake of a brutality that is peculiarly racial , is not supported by facts . 
Let any one who doubts the statement observe for one week the criminal statistics of any cosmopolitan newspaper , and he will have his doubt removed . 
My own idea is , that the character of education for the Negro ought to be changed . 
Slavery is the only process by which he has ever been partially civilized . 
God Almighty created the Negro for a menial , he is essentially a servant . 
What seems race aversion is frequently something else , namely , revulsion aroused by the presence of the strange , the unusual , the uncanny , the not understood . 
So much for what the race problem is not . 
Let me without further delay state what it is . 
So , stated differently , the race problem is the problem how to keep the Negro in focus with the traditional standpoint . 
But we are very far from needing to rely upon any general consideration in support of the proposition advanced above . 
It is supported by evidences on every hand , waiting only the eye of recognition . 
Let me instance a few such evidences . 
Consider , first , the Jim Crow legislation in the manner of its enforcement . 
Such legislation is supposed to have for its object the separation of the races in trains , street cars , etc . 
, to save the white people from occasional contact with drunken , rowdy , ill smelling Negroes , and to prevent personal encounters between the whites and blacks . 
In Birmingham , Alabama , the front seats are assigned to Negroes in all closed cars , and the back seats in all open ones . 
The underlying purpose of it would seem to be the separation of the races in status . 
Such is the real spirit of the Jim Crow laws . 
It can hardly be that permission is withheld because theatres and baseball games are so well attended by half the population that first class seats could not be furnished for the other half . 
As a matter of fact , theatre auditoriums and baseball grand stands are seldom crowded the rule is , not all first class seats occupied , but many vacant . 
There , neither they nor others will be tempted to forget that as things are they must continue . 
Here again the heart of the race problem is laid bare . 
Almost anything , the Negro may do in the South , and anywhere he may go , provided the manner of his doing and his doing is that of an inferior . 
Such is the premium put upon his inferiority such his inducement to maintain it . 
The race problem being what it is , the status of any Negro is logically the status of every other . 
There are recognizable degrees of inferiority among Negroes themselves some are vastly superior to others . 
But there is only one degree of inferiority separating the Negro from the white person , attached to all Negroes alike . 
of the anti miscegenation bill , a measure designed to prohibit sexual cohabitation between white persons and Negroes to be specific , between white men and Negro women . 
But there was no inconsistency whatever in the defeat of that bill . 
They have no rights that they can insist upon they are simply privileged to exist by society's permission , and may be any moment legislated out of their vocation . 
Hence the defeat of an anti miscegenation measure by Southern legislators cannot be construed as a failure on their part to live up to their conviction of race superiority . 
In its essence , it is the same problem , magnified , which besets every neighborhood , even every family . 
I have contended so far , and I here repeat , that the race problem is essentially NOT what this writer declares it to be . 
It is emphatically not , in the South , the problem of living with human beings who are not like us , whether they are in our estimation our superiors or inferiors . 
Assuredly there would be no race problem , anywhere , were there no contact with others unlike ourselves ! The unlikeness of the unlike is everywhere its indispensable foundation . 
But we get nowhither unless we carefully distinguish between the foundation of the problem and the problem itself . 
There is nothing in the unlikeness of the unlike that is necessarily problematical it may be simply accepted and dealt with as a fact , like any other fact . 
The problem arises only when the people of one race are minded to adopt and act upon some policy more or less oppressive or repressive in dealing with the people of another race . 
In the absence of some such policy , there has never been a race problem since the world began . 
It is the existence of such a policy become traditional , and supported by immovable conviction , which constitutes the race problem of the Southern states . 
Perhaps they cannot be answered at all in our time . 
Certain is it , that their only real and satisfactory answer will be many years ahead of the present generation . 
As I see it , the question of Negro suffrage in the United States presents two distinct aspects FIRST the legal aspect . 
Our registration and ballot laws eliminate hundreds of thousands of voters and finally , we bar out everywhere the defective and criminal classes of our population . 
We do not realize , sometimes , I think , how limited the franchise really is , even in America . 
We forget that out of nearly ninety million people in the United States , fewer than fifteen million cast their votes for President in or about one in every six . 
Thus the practice of a restricted suffrage is very deeply implanted in our system of government . 
It is everywhere recognized that even in a democracy lines must be drawn , and that the ballot , the precious instrument of government , must be hedged about with stringent regulations . 
The question is , where shall these lines be drawn in order that the best interests , not of any particular class , but of the whole nation , shall be served . 
Powerful organizations of women are now agitating for the right to vote there is an organization which demands the suffrage for Chinese and Japanese who wish to become citizens . 
Thus we disagree , and government is the resultant of all these diverse views and forces . 
No one can say dogmatically how far democracy should go in distributing the enormously important powers of active government . 
Democracy is not a dogma it is not even a dogma of free suffrage . 
Democracy is a life , a spirit , a growth . 
If a democracy cannot provide such stability , then the people go back to some form of oligarchy . 
Having secured a fair measure of stability , a democracy proceeds with caution toward the extension of the suffrage to more and more people trying foreigners , trying women , trying Negroes . 
And no one can prophesy how far a democracy will ultimately go in the matter of suffrage . 
We know only the tendency . 
We know that in the beginning , even in America , the right to vote was a very limited matter . 
Thus the line has been constantly advancing , but with many fluctuations , eddies , and back currents like any other stream of progress . 
At the present time the fundamental principles which underlie popular government , and especially the whole matter of popular suffrage , are much in the public mind . 
The tendency of government throughout the entire civilized world is strongly in the direction of placing more and more power in the hands of the people . 
The principle of local option , which is nothing but that of direct government by the people , is being everywhere accepted . 
All these changes affect , fundamentally , the historic structure of our government , making it less republican and more democratic . 
More and more , private business is becoming public business . 
Now , then , as the weight of responsibility upon the popular vote is increased , it becomes more and more important that the ballot should be jealously guarded and honestly exercised . 
It becomes a more and more serious matter every year to be an American citizen , more of an honor , more of a duty . 
Revolutions , indeed , change names , but they do not at once change human relationships . 
Mankind is reconstructed not by proclamations , or legislation , or military occupation , but by time , growth , education , religion , thought . 
At that time , then , the nation drove down the stakes of its idealism in government far beyond the point it was able to reach in the humdrum activities of everyday existence . 
That questioning continues to this day . 
This amendment wiped out the color line in politics so far as any written law could possibly do it . 
For now , however short the practice falls of reaching the legal standard , the principle is woven into the warp and woof of Southern life and Southern legislation . 
Many Southern white leaders of thought are to day CONVINCED , not FORCED believers in the principle and that is a great omen . 
Limitations have come about , it is true , and were to be expected as the back currents of the revolution . 
These provisions , whatever the opinion entertained as to the wisdom of such laws , are well within the principle laid down by the Fifteenth Amendment . 
These unfair 'grandfather laws , however , in some of the states adopting them , have now expired by limitation . 
Let me then lay down this general proposition Nowhere in the South to day is the Negro cut off LEGALLY , as a Negro , from the ballot . 
I have emphasized the word legally , for I know the PRACTICAL difficulties which confront the Negro votes in many parts of the South . 
Now , then , if we are interested in the problem of democracy , we have two courses open to us . 
We may think the laws are unjust to the Negro , and incidentally to the 'poor white' man as well . 
Every change in the legislation upon this subject should , indeed , be jealously watched , that the principle of political equality between the races be not legally curtailed . 
The doctrine laid down in the Fifteenth Amendment must , at any hazard , be maintained . 
In short , let us for the time being accept the laws as they are , and build upward from that point . 
The second difficulty is peculiar to the Negro . 
It consists in open or concealed intimidation on the part of the white men who control the election machinery . 
Thus we have to meet a vast amount of apathy and ignorance and poverty on the one hand , and the threat of intimidation on the other . 
He stands there and , law or no law , keeps out many Negroes who might vote and he represents in most parts of the South the prevailing public opinion . 
There is now , in short , no disposition anywhere in the North to interfere in internal affairs in the South not even with the force of public opinion . 
We might as well , here and now , dismiss the idea of force , express or implied . 
There are times of last resort which call for force but this is not such a time . 
What other alternatives are there ? Accepting the laws as they are , then , there are two methods of procedure , neither sensational nor exciting . 
I have no quick cure to suggest , but only old and tried methods of commonplace growth . 
The underlying causes of the trouble in the country being plainly ignorance and prejudice , we must meet ignorance and prejudice with their antidotes , education and association . 
Every effort should be made to extend free education among both Negroes and white people . 
A great extension of education is now going forward in the South . 
The Negro is not by any means getting his full share but , as certainly as sunshine makes things grow , education in the South will produce tolerance . 
That there is already such a growing tolerance no one who has talked with the leading white men in the South can doubt . 
The old fire eating , Negro baiting leaders of the Tillman Vardaman type are swiftly passing away a far better and broader group is coming into power . 
I know no advocate of such admission . 
I think it most likely that from now on there will be a gradual increase of the Negro vote . 
And I honestly believe that the less said about it , the surer the increase will be . 
Democracy does not consist in mere voting , but in association , the spirit of common effort , of which the ballot is a mere visible expression . 
When we come to know one another we soon find that the points of likeness are much more numerous than the points of difference . 
As one of the leaders of the Negro race , Dr . 
Du Bois , has said , 'Herein lies the tragedy of the age . 
Not that men are poor all men know something of poverty . 
Not that men are wicked who is good ? Not that men are ignorant what is truth ? Nay , but that men know so little of each other . 
After the Atlanta riot I attended a number of conferences between leading white men and leading colored men . 
A white man told me after one of the meetings , 'I did not know that there were any such sensible Negroes in the South . 
More and more these associations of white and colored men , at certain points of contact , must and will come about . 
And it is common enough now , where it was unheard of a few years ago , for both white men and Negroes to speak from the same platform in the South . 
I have attended a number of such meetings . 
These things cannot be forced . 
'Here we all live together in a great country , say the apostles of this view 'let us all get together and develop it . 
Let the Negro do his best to educate himself , to own his own land , and to buy and sell with the white people in the fairest possible way . 
It is wonderful , indeed , how close together men who are stooping to a common task soon come . 
learns to do his job well , how he finds himself in a democratic relationship with other men . 
I remember asking a prominent white citizen of a town in Central Georgia if he knew anything about Tuskegee . 
He said , 'Yes I had rather a curious experience last fall . 
I was building a hotel and couldn't get any one to do the plastering as I wanted it done . 
One day I saw two Negro plasterers at work in a new house that a friend of mine was building . 
I watched them for an hour . 
They seemed to know their trade . 
I invited them to come over and see me . 
I found that they had learned their trade at Tuskegee . 
They averaged four dollars a day each in wages . 
We tried to get them to locate in our town , but they went back to school . 
When I was in Mississippi a prominent banker showed me his business letter heads . 
'Good job , isn't it ? he said . 
'A Negro printer did it . 
He wrote to me asking if he might bid on my work . 
I replied that although I had known him a long time I couldn't give him the job merely because he was a Negro . 
I let him try , and now he does most of our printing . 
And that will inevitably lead to an extension upon the soundest possible basis of the Negro franchise . 
I know cases where white men have urged intelligent Negroes to come and cast their ballots , and have stood sponsor for them , out of genuine respect . 
As a result , to day , the Negroes who vote in the South are , as a class , men of substance and intelligence , fully equal to the tasks of citizenship . 
Another influence also will tend to change the status of the Negro as a voter . 
That is the pending break up of the political solidarity of the South . 
All the signs point to a political realignment upon new issues in this country , both South and North . 
Old party names may even pass away . 
And that break up , with the attendant struggle for votes , is certain to bring into politics thousands of Negroes and white men now disfranchised . 
With such a division on new issues the Negro will tend to exercise more and more political power , dividing , not on the color line , but on the principles at stake . 
Thus in spite of the difficulties which now confront the Negro , I cannot but look upon the situation in a spirit of optimism . 
I think sometimes we are tempted to set a higher value upon the ritual of a belief than upon the spirit which underlies it . 
What we should look to , then , primarily , is not the shadow , but the substance of democracy in this country . 
Nor must we look for results too swiftly our progress toward democracy is slow of growth and needs to be cultivated with patience and watered with faith . 
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SOURCES SOJOURNER TRUTH , THE LIBYAN SIBYL by Harriet Beecher Stowe Atlantic Monthly . 
RECONSTRUCTION by Frederick Douglass Atlantic Monthly . 
AN APPEAL TO CONGRESS FOR IMPARTIAL SUFFRAGE by Frederick Douglas Atlantic Monthly . 
THE NEGRO EXODUS by James B. Runnion Atlantic Monthly . 
MY ESCAPE FROM SLAVERY by Frederick Douglass The Century Illustrated Magazine , n . 
THE GOOPHERED GRAPEVINE by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly . 
PO' SANDY by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly . 
DAVE'S NECKLISS by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly . 
THE AWAKENING OF THE NEGRO by Booker T. Washington Atlantic Monthly . 
THE STORY OF UNCLE TOM'S CABIN by Charles Dudley Warner Atlantic Monthly . 
STRIVINGS OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE by W. E. Burghardt Du Bois Atlantic Monthly . 
THE WIFE OF HIS YOUTH by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly . 
THE BOUQUET by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly . 
THE CASE OF THE NEGRO by Booker T. Washington Atlantic Monthly . 
HOT FOOT HANNIBAL by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly . 
A NEGRO SCHOOLMASTER IN THE NEW SOUTH by W. E. Burghardt Du Bois Atlantic Monthly . 
THE CAPTURE OF A SLAVER by J. Taylor Wood Atlantic Monthly . 
CHARLES W. CHESNUTT'S STORIES by W. D. Howells Atlantic Monthly . 
PATHS OF HOPE FOR THE NEGRO PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS OF A SOUTHERNER by Jerome Dowd Century Magazine . 
SIGNS OF PROGRESS AMONG THE NEGROES by Booker T. Washington Century Magazine . 
THE MARCH OF PROGRESS by Charles W. Chesnutt Century Magazine . 
THE FREEDMEN'S BUREAU by W. E. Burghardt Du Bois Atlantic Monthly . 
OF THE TRAINING OF BLACK MEN by W. E. Burghardt Du Bois Atlantic Monthly . 
THE FRUITS OF INDUSTRIAL TRAINING by Booker T. Washington Atlantic Monthly . 
THE NEGRO IN THE REGULAR ARMY by Oswald Garrison Villard Atlantic Monthly . 
BAXTER'S PROCRUSTES by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly . 
THE HEART OF THE RACE PROBLEM by Quincy Ewing Atlantic Monthly . 
NEGRO SUFFRAGE IN A DEMOCRACY by Ray Stannard Baker Atlantic Monthly . 
End of the Project Gutenberg Etext of Project Gutenberg Anthology , The Martin Luther King , Jr . 
Day , , Memorial Issue . 
