Earth , with her thousand voices , praises GOD ! COLERIDGE . 
FOREWORD We also have a religion which was given to our forefathers , and has been handed down to us their children . 
It teaches us to be thankful , to be united , and to love one another ! We never quarrel about religion . 
I have attempted to paint the religious life of the typical American Indian as it was before he knew the white man . 
I have long wished to do this , because I cannot find that it has ever been seriously , adequately , and sincerely done . 
The religion of the Indian is the last thing about him that the man of another race will ever understand . 
First , the Indian does not speak of these deep matters so long as he believes in them , and when he has ceased to believe he speaks inaccurately and slightingly . 
Second , even if he can be induced to speak , the racial and religious prejudice of the other stands in the way of his sympathetic comprehension . 
Third , practically all existing studies on this subject have been made during the transition period , when the original beliefs and philosophy of the native American were already undergoing rapid disintegration . 
Some of it has even been invented for commercial purposes . 
It is as true as I can make it to my childhood teaching and ancestral ideals , but from the human , not the ethnological standpoint . 
I have not cared to pile up more dry bones , but to clothe them with flesh and blood . 
So much as has been written by strangers of our ancient faith and worship treats it chiefly as matter of curiosity . 
They even told us that we were eternally lost , unless we adopted a tangible symbol and professed a particular form of their hydra headed faith . 
We of the twentieth century know better ! We know that all religious aspiration , all sincere worship , can have but one source and one goal . 
CONTENTS I. THE GREAT MYSTERY II . 
CEREMONIAL AND SYMBOLIC WORSHIP IV . 
BARBARISM AND THE MORAL CODE V. THE UNWRITTEN SCRIPTURES VI . 
ON THE BORDER LAND OF SPIRITS I THE GREAT MYSTERY THE SOUL OF THE INDIAN I THE GREAT MYSTERY Solitary Worship . 
Spiritual Gifts versus Material Progress . 
The Paradox of Christian Civilization . 
The original attitude of the American Indian toward the Eternal , the Great Mystery that surrounds and embraces us , was as simple as it was exalted . 
To him it was the supreme conception , bringing with it the fullest measure of joy and satisfaction possible in this life . 
The worship of the Great Mystery was silent , solitary , free from all self seeking . 
It was silent , because all speech is of necessity feeble and imperfect therefore the souls of my ancestors ascended to God in wordless adoration . 
It was solitary , because they believed that He is nearer to us in solitude , and there were no priests authorized to come between a man and his Maker . 
None might exhort or confess or in any way meddle with the religious experience of another . 
Among us all men were created sons of God and stood erect , as conscious of their divinity . 
There were no temples or shrines among us save those of nature . 
Being a natural man , the Indian was intensely poetical . 
It may better be interpreted as consciousness of the divine . 
The first bambeday , or religious retreat , marked an epoch in the life of the youth , which may be compared to that of confirmation or conversion in Christian experience . 
Knowing that God sets no value upon material things , he took with him no offerings or sacrifices other than symbolic objects , such as paints and tobacco . 
Wishing to appear before Him in all humility , he wore no clothing save his moccasins and breech clout . 
Sometimes he would chant a hymn without words , or offer the ceremonial filled pipe . 
In this holy trance or ecstasy the Indian mystic found his highest happiness and the motive power of his existence . 
When he returned to the camp , he must remain at a distance until he had again entered the vapor bath and prepared himself for intercourse with his fellows . 
Of the vision or sign vouchsafed to him he did not speak , unless it had included some commission which must be publicly fulfilled . 
Sometimes an old man , standing upon the brink of eternity , might reveal to a chosen few the oracle of his long past youth . 
The native American has been generally despised by his white conquerors for his poverty and simplicity . 
They forget , perhaps , that his religion forbade the accumulation of wealth and the enjoyment of luxury . 
Furthermore , it was the rule of his life to share the fruits of his skill and success with his less fortunate brothers . 
It was not , then , wholly from ignorance or improvidence that he failed to establish permanent towns and to develop a material civilization . 
To the untutored sage , the concentration of population was the prolific mother of all evils , moral no less than physical . 
The red man divided mind into two parts , the spiritual mind and the physical mind . 
In this type of prayer there was no beseeching of favor or help . 
The rites of this physical worship , again , were wholly symbolic , and the Indian no more worshiped the Sun than the Christian adores the Cross . 
The Sun and the Earth , by an obvious parable , holding scarcely more of poetic metaphor than of scientific truth , were in his view the parents of all organic life . 
This is the material or physical prayer . 
We believed that the spirit pervades all creation and that every creature possesses a soul in some degree , though not necessarily a soul conscious of itself . 
The tree , the waterfall , the grizzly bear , each is an embodied Force , and as such an object of reverence . 
In every religion there is an element of the supernatural , varying with the influence of pure reason over its devotees . 
It was clear to him that virtue and happiness are independent of these things , if not incompatible with them . 
There was undoubtedly much in primitive Christianity to appeal to this man , and Jesus' hard sayings to the rich and about the rich would have been entirely comprehensible to him . 
To him , it appeared shocking and almost incredible that there were among this people who claimed superiority many irreligious , who did not even pretend to profess the national faith . 
More than this , even in those white men who professed religion we found much inconsistency of conduct . 
They spoke much of spiritual things , while seeking only the material . 
But it was not so easy to overlook or to excuse national bad faith . 
It is my personal belief , after thirty five years' experience of it , that there is no such thing as Christian civilization . 
I believe that Christianity and modern civilization are opposed and irreconcilable , and that the spirit of Christianity and of our ancient religion is essentially the same . 
II THE FAMILY ALTAR THE FAMILY ALTAR Pre natal Influence . 
The Function of the Aged . 
Woman , Marriage and the Family . 
Loyalty , Hospitality , Friendship . 
The American Indian was an individualist in religion as in war . 
He had neither a national army nor an organized church . 
There was no priest to assume responsibility for another's soul . 
The Indian was a religious man from his mother's womb . 
Her attitude and secret meditations must be such as to instill into the receptive soul of the unborn child the love of the Great Mystery and a sense of brotherhood with all creation . 
Silence and isolation are the rule of life for the expectant mother . 
She has been trained and prepared in body and mind for this her holiest duty , ever since she can remember . 
It is still a part of herself , since both are nourished by the same mouthful , and no look of a lover could be sweeter than its deep , trusting gaze . 
She continues her spiritual teaching , at first silently a mere pointing of the index finger to nature then in whispered songs , bird like , at morning and evening . 
To her and to the child the birds are real people , who live very close to the Great Mystery the murmuring trees breathe His presence the falling waters chant His praise . 
If the child should chance to be fretful , the mother raises her hand . 
Silence , love , reverence , this is the trinity of first lessons and to these she later adds generosity , courage , and chastity . 
In due time the child takes of his own accord the attitude of prayer , and speaks reverently of the Powers . 
He thinks that he is a blood brother to all living creatures , and the storm wind is to him a messenger of the Great Mystery . 
At the age of about eight years , if he is a boy , she turns him over to his father for more Spartan training . 
If a girl , she is from this time much under the guardianship of her grandmother , who is considered the most dignified protector for the maiden . 
Indeed , the distinctive work of both grandparents is that of acquainting the youth with the national traditions and beliefs . 
The old are dedicated to the service of the young , as their teachers and advisers , and the young in turn regard them with love and reverence . 
Our old age was in some respects the happiest period of life . 
No one who is at all acquainted with the Indian in his home can deny that we are a polite people . 
Our people , though capable of strong and durable feeling , were not demonstrative in their affection at any time , least of all in the presence of guests or strangers . 
There was no religious ceremony connected with marriage among us , while on the other hand the relation between man and woman was regarded as in itself mysterious and holy . 
We believed that two who love should be united in secret , before the public acknowledgment of their union , and should taste their apotheosis alone with nature . 
An exchange of presents and entertainments between the two families usually followed , but the nuptial blessing was given by the High Priest of God , the most reverend and holy Nature . 
The family was not only the social unit , but also the unit of government . 
The clan is nothing more than a larger family , with its patriarchal chief as the natural head , and the union of several clans by intermarriage and voluntary connection constitutes the tribe . 
The very name of our tribe , Dakota , means Allied People . 
There were , indeed , few plural marriages except among the older and leading men , and plural wives were usually , though not necessarily , sisters . 
A marriage might honorably be dissolved for cause , but there was very little infidelity or immorality , either open or secret . 
It has been said that the position of woman is the test of civilization , and that of our women was secure . 
In them was vested our standard of morals and the purity of our blood . 
The wife did not take the name of her husband nor enter his clan , and the children belonged to the clan of the mother . 
All of the family property was held by her , descent was traced in the maternal line , and the honor of the house was in her hands . 
When she fell , the whole race fell with her . 
Before this calamity came upon us , you could not find anywhere a happier home than that created by the Indian woman . 
There was nothing of the artificial about her person , and very little disingenuousness in her character . 
Indian names were either characteristic nicknames given in a playful spirit , deed names , birth names , or such as have a religious and symbolic meaning . 
It has been said that when a child is born , some accident or unusual appearance determines his name . 
This is sometimes the case , but is not the rule . 
A man of forcible character , with a fine war record , usually bears the name of the buffalo or bear , lightning or some dread natural force . 
Another of more peaceful nature may be called Swift Bird or Blue Sky . 
A woman's name usually suggested something about the home , often with the adjective pretty or good , and a feminine termination . 
Such a name was sometimes borne by three generations , but each individual must prove that he is worthy of it . 
In the life of the Indian there was only one inevitable duty , the duty of prayer the daily recognition of the Unseen and Eternal . 
His daily devotions were more necessary to him than daily food . 
He wakes at daybreak , puts on his moccasins and steps down to the water's edge . 
Here he throws handfuls of clear , cold water into his face , or plunges in bodily . 
After the bath , he stands erect before the advancing dawn , facing the sun as it dances upon the horizon , and offers his unspoken orison . 
His mate may precede or follow him in his devotions , but never accompanies him . 
He sees no need for setting apart one day in seven as a holy day , since to him all days are God's . 
Every act of his life is , in a very real sense , a religious act . 
He recognizes the spirit in all creation , and believes that he draws from it spiritual power . 
When he becomes an old man , he loves to make a notable effort to prove his gratitude . 
He cuts off the choicest morsel of the meat and casts it into the fire the purest and most ethereal element . 
The hospitality of the wigwam is only limited by the institution of war . 
Friendship is held to be the severest test of character . 
It is easy , we think , to be loyal to family and clan , whose blood is in our own veins . 
Love between man and woman is founded on the mating instinct and is not free from desire and self seeking . 
This bond is between man and man , is usually formed in early youth , and can only be broken by death . 
It is the essence of comradeship and fraternal love , without thought of pleasure or gain , but rather for moral support and inspiration . 
III CEREMONIAL AND SYMBOLIC WORSHIP Modern Perversions of Early Religious Rites . 
The Vapor Bath and the Ceremonial of the Pipe . 
The public religious rites of the Plains Indians are few , and in large part of modern origin , belonging properly to the so called transition period . 
We have no authentic study of them until well along in the transition period , when whiskey and trade had already debauched their native ideals . 
Even their music shows the influence of the Catholic chants . 
Most of the material collected by modern observers is necessarily of this promiscuous character . 
Thus the physical ordeal was the fulfillment of a vow , and a sort of atonement for what might otherwise appear to be reprehensible weakness in the face of death . 
It was in the nature of confession and thank offering to the Great Mystery , through the physical parent , the Sun , and did not embrace a prayer for future favors . 
They naturally included the making of a feast , and the giving away of much savage wealth in honor of the occasion , although these were no essential part of the religious rite . 
When the day came to procure the pole , it was brought in by a party of warriors , headed by some man of distinction . 
The tree selected was six to eight inches in diameter at the base , and twenty to twenty five feet high . 
Meanwhile , one of the most noted of our old men had carved out of rawhide , or later of wood , two figures , usually those of a man and a buffalo . 
Sometimes the figure of a bird , supposed to represent the Thunder , was substituted for the buffalo . 
I have never been able to determine that this cross had any significance it was probably nothing more than a dramatic coincidence that surmounted the Sun Dance pole with the symbol of Christianity . 
The buffalo hung opposite the image of his own body in death , because it was the support of his physical self , and a leading figure in legendary lore . 
The dancer was cut or scarified on the chest , sufficient to draw blood and cause pain , the natural accompaniments of his figurative death . 
He took his position opposite the singers , facing the pole , and dragging the skull by leather thongs which were merely fastened about his shoulders . 
Moreover , instead of an atonement or thank offering , it became the accompaniment of a prayer for success in war , or in a raid upon the horses of the enemy . 
The number of dancers was increased , and they were made to hang suspended from the pole by their own flesh , which they must break loose before being released . 
Perhaps the most remarkable organization ever known among American Indians , that of the Grand Medicine Lodge , was apparently an indirect result of the labors of the early Jesuit missionaries . 
In it Caucasian ideas are easily recognizable , and it seems reasonable to suppose that its founders desired to establish an order that would successfully resist the encroachments of the Black Robes . 
Thus in each case an Indian religious revival or craze , though more or less threatening to the invader , was of distinctively alien origin . 
No person might become a member unless his moral standing was excellent , all candidates remained on probation for one or two years , and murderers and adulterers were expelled . 
My grandmother was a well known and successful practitioner , and both my mother and father were members , but did not practice . 
The food was only partaken of by invited guests , and not by the hosts , or lodge making the feast . 
Invitations were sent out in the form of small bundles of tobacco . 
Two very large teepees were pitched facing one another , a hundred feet apart , half open , and connected by a roofless hall or colonnade of fresh cut boughs . 
They were selected from among the best and bravest warriors of the tribe . 
The closing ceremony , which was intensely dramatic in its character , was the initiation of the novices , who had received their final preparation on the night before . 
Both sexes wore the hair loose , as if in mourning or expectation of death . 
All then assumed an attitude of superb power and dignity , crouching slightly as if about to spring forward in a foot race , and grasping their medicine bags firmly in both hands . 
Swinging their arms forward at the same moment , they uttered their guttural Yo ho ho ho ! in perfect unison and with startling effect . 
Instantly they all fell forward , apparently lifeless . 
With this thrilling climax , the drums were vigorously pounded and the dance began again with energy . 
The whole performance was clearly symbolic of death and resurrection . 
But at a later period it became still further demoralized and fell under suspicion of witchcraft . 
As a doctor he was originally very adroit and often successful . 
He employed only healing bark , roots , and leaves with whose properties he was familiar , using them in the form of a distillation or tea and always singly . 
The stomach or internal bath was a valuable discovery of his , and the vapor or Turkish bath was in general use . 
He could set a broken bone with fair success , but never practiced surgery in any form . 
The Sioux word for the healing art is wah pee yah , which literally means readjusting or making anew . 
Pay jee hoo tah , literally root , means medicine , and wakan signifies spirit or mystery . 
Thus the three ideas , while sometimes associated , were carefully distinguished . 
It is important to remember that in the old days the medicine man received no payment for his services , which were of the nature of an honorable function or office . 
It is fortunate that his day is practically over . 
Ever seeking to establish spiritual comradeship with the animal creation , the Indian adopted this or that animal as his totem , the emblematic device of his society , family , or clan . 
It is probable that the creature chosen was the traditional ancestress , as we are told that the First Man had many wives among the animal people . 
The totem or charm used in medicine was ordinarily that of the medicine lodge to which the practitioner belonged , though there were some great men who boasted a special revelation . 
There are two ceremonial usages which , so far as I have been able to ascertain , were universal among American Indians , and apparently fundamental . 
These have already been referred to as the eneepee , or vapor bath , and the chan du hu pah yu za pee , or ceremonial of the pipe . 
In our Siouan legends and traditions these two are preeminent , as handed down from the most ancient time and persisting to the last . 
In the other pit he made a fire and heated four round stones , which he rolled one by one into the lodge of boughs . 
Having closed every aperture save one , he sang a mystic chant while he thrust in his arm and sprinkled water upon the stones with a bunch of sage . 
Immediately steam arose , and as the legend says , there was an appearance of life . 
A second time he sprinkled water , and the dry bones rattled together . 
This story gives the traditional origin of the eneepee , which has ever since been deemed essential to the Indian's effort to purify and recreate his spirit . 
It is used both by the doctor and by his patient . 
Every man must enter the cleansing bath and take the cold plunge which follows , when preparing for any spiritual crisis , for possible death , or imminent danger . 
For the rock we have a special reverent name Tunkan , a contraction of the Sioux word for Grandfather . 
The natural boulder enters into many of our solemn ceremonials , such as the Rain Dance , and the Feast of Virgins . 
In all the war ceremonies and in medicine a special pipe is used , but at home or on the hunt the warrior employs his own . 
The pulverized weed is mixed with aromatic bark of the red willow , and pressed lightly into the bowl of the long stone pipe . 
There are modern variations , as holding the pipe to the Four Winds , the Fire , Water , Rock , and other elements or objects of reverence . 
For baptism we substitute the eneepee , the purification by vapor , and in our holy communion we partake of the soothing incense of tobacco in the stead of bread and wine . 
IV BARBARISM AND THE MORAL CODE Silence the Corner Stone of Character . 
Give All or Nothing ! Rules of Honorable Warfare . 
An Indian Conception of Courage . 
Long before I ever heard of Christ , or saw a white man , I had learned from an untutored woman the essence of morality . 
With the help of dear Nature herself , she taught me things simple but of mighty import . 
I perceived what goodness is . 
I saw and loved what is really beautiful . 
Civilization has not taught me anything better ! As a child , I understood how to give I have forgotten that grace since I became civilized . 
I lived the natural life , whereas I now live the artificial . 
Any pretty pebble was valuable to me then every growing tree an object of reverence . 
The first American mingled with his pride a singular humility . 
Spiritual arrogance was foreign to his nature and teaching . 
He never claimed that the power of articulate speech was proof of superiority over the dumb creation on the other hand , it is to him a perilous gift . 
He believes profoundly in silence the sign of a perfect equilibrium . 
Silence is the absolute poise or balance of body , mind , and spirit . 
Silence is the cornerstone of character . 
Upon this truth the Indian built a rigid system of physical training , a social and moral code that was the law of his life . 
He was required to fast from time to time for short periods , and to work off his superfluous energy by means of hard running , swimming , and the vapor bath . 
The bodily fatigue thus induced , especially when coupled with a reduced diet , is a reliable cure for undue sexual desires . 
Personal modesty was early cultivated as a safeguard , together with a strong self respect and pride of family and race . 
This was accomplished in part by keeping the child ever before the public eye , from his birth onward . 
Thus habits of perfect self control were early established , and there were no unnatural conditions or complex temptations to beset him until he was met and overthrown by a stronger race . 
To keep the young men and young women strictly to their honor , there were observed among us , within my own recollection , certain annual ceremonies of a semi religious nature . 
It always took place in midsummer , when a number of different clans were gathered together for the summer festivities , and was held in the centre of the great circular encampment . 
The inner circle was for the maidens , and the outer one for their grandmothers or chaperones , who were supposed to have passed the climacteric . 
Upon the outskirts of the feast there was a great public gathering , in which order was kept by certain warriors of highest reputation . 
Each girl in turn approached the sacred rock and laid her hand upon it with all solemnity . 
This was her religious declaration of her virginity , her vow to remain pure until her marriage . 
It was our belief that the love of possessions is a weakness to be overcome . 
Its appeal is to the material part , and if allowed its way it will in time disturb the spiritual balance of the man . 
Therefore the child must early learn the beauty of generosity . 
He is taught to give what he prizes most , and that he may taste the happiness of giving , he is made at an early age the family almoner . 
Public giving is a part of every important ceremony . 
It properly belongs to the celebration of birth , marriage , and death , and is observed whenever it is desired to do special honor to any person or event . 
Upon such occasions it is common to give to the point of utter impoverishment . 
Orphans and the aged are invariably cared for , not only by their next of kin , but by the whole clan . 
It is the loving parent's pride to have his daughters visit the unfortunate and the helpless , carry them food , comb their hair , and mend their garments . 
The name Wenonah , bestowed upon the eldest daughter , distinctly implies all this , and a girl who failed in her charitable duties was held to be unworthy of the name . 
The true Indian sets no price upon either his property or his labor . 
His generosity is only limited by his strength and ability . 
The only exception to the rule is in the case of food , which is always free to the hungry if there is none by to offer it . 
The property of the enemy is spoil of war , and it is always allowable to confiscate it if possible . 
However , in the old days there was not much plunder . 
Warfare we regarded as an institution of the Great Mystery an organized tournament or trial of courage and skill , with elaborate rules and counts for the coveted honor of the eagle feather . 
It was held to develop the quality of manliness and its motive was chivalric or patriotic , but never the desire for territorial aggrandizement or the overthrow of a brother nation . 
The slayer of a man in battle was expected to mourn for thirty days blackening his face and loosening his hair according to the custom . 
He of course considered it no sin to take the life of an enemy , and this ceremonial mourning was a sign of reverence for the departed spirit . 
A scalp might originally be taken by the leader of the war party only and at that period no other mutilation was practiced . 
It was a small lock not more than three inches square , which was carried only during the thirty days' celebration of a victory , and afterward given religious burial . 
He made no attempt to escape or to evade justice . 
That the crime was committed in the depths of the forest or at dead of night , witnessed by no human eye , made no difference to his mind . 
Otherwise the murdered man's next of kin were authorized to take his life and if they refrained from doing so , as often happened , he remained an outcast from the clan . 
A willful murder was a rare occurrence before the days of whiskey and drunken rows , for we were not a violent or a quarrelsome people . 
It is well remembered that Crow Dog , who killed the Sioux chief , Spotted Tail , in , calmly surrendered himself and was tried and convicted by the courts in South Dakota . 
After his conviction , he was permitted remarkable liberty in prison , such as perhaps no white man has ever enjoyed when under sentence of death . 
Crow Dog was under a vow to slay the chief , in case he ever betrayed or disgraced the name of the Brule Sioux . 
When he did not appear at the time set , the sheriff dispatched the Indian police after him . 
They did not find him , and his wife simply said that Crow Dog had desired to ride alone to the prison , and would reach there on the day appointed . 
All doubt was removed next day by a telegram from Rapid City , two hundred miles distant , saying Crow Dog has just reported here . 
The incident drew public attention to the Indian murderer , with the unexpected result that the case was reopened , and Crow Dog acquitted . 
He still lives , a well preserved man of about seventy five years , and is much respected among his own people . 
It is said that , in the very early days , lying was a capital offense among us . 
His own conception of bravery makes of it a high moral virtue , for to him it consists not so much in aggressive self assertion as in absolute self control . 
This was his childlike conception of courage . 
V THE UNWRITTEN SCRIPTURES A Living Book . 
The Sioux Story of Creation . 
Another Version of the Flood . 
A missionary once undertook to instruct a group of Indians in the truths of his holy religion . 
He told them of the creation of the earth in six days , and of the fall of our first parents by eating an apple . 
The courteous savages listened attentively , and , after thanking him , one related in his turn a very ancient tradition concerning the origin of the maize . 
Upon its hoary wisdom of proverb and fable , its mystic and legendary lore thus sacredly preserved and transmitted from father to son , was based in large part our customs and philosophy . 
His imaginative and poetic mind , like that of the Greek , assigns to every mountain , tree , and spring its spirit , nymph , or divinity either beneficent or mischievous . 
In the Sioux story of creation , the great Mysterious One is not brought directly upon the scene or conceived in anthropomorphic fashion , but remains sublimely in the background . 
The Sun and the Earth , representing the male and female principles , are the main elements in his creation , the other planets being subsidiary . 
The enkindling warmth of the Sun entered into the bosom of our mother , the Earth , and forthwith she conceived and brought forth life , both vegetable and animal . 
They beheld him with wonder and awe , for they could do nothing without his knowledge . 
He had pitched his tent in the centre of the land , and there was no spot impossible for him to penetrate . 
Only the monsters of the deep sea listened , and presently took his life , hiding his body in the bottom of the sea . 
Nevertheless , by the magic power of the First Born , the body was recovered and was given life again in the sacred vapor bath , as described in a former chapter . 
Once more our first ancestor roamed happily among the animal people , who were in those days a powerful nation . 
After a time the young man discovered the plot , and came home very sorrowful . 
He loved his animal friends , and was grieved that they should combine against him . 
Besides , he was naked and unarmed . 
But his Elder Brother armed him with a bow and flint headed arrows , a stone war club and a spear . 
He likewise tossed a pebble four times into the air , and each time it became a cliff or wall of rock about the teepee . 
Bears and wolves were closing in from all directions , and now from the sky the Thunder gave his fearful war whoop , answered by the wolf's long howl . 
The badgers and other burrowers began at once to undermine his rocky fortress , while the climbers undertook to scale its perpendicular walls . 
He called for help upon his Elder Brother , who ordered him to strike the rocks with his stone war club . 
As soon as he had done so , sparks of fire flew upon the dry grass of the prairie and it burst into flame . 
A mighty smoke ascended , which drove away the teasing swarms of the insect people , while the flames terrified and scattered the others . 
Our people have always claimed that the stone arrows which are found so generally throughout the country are the ones that the first man used in his battle with the animals . 
It is not recorded in our traditions , much less is it within the memory of our old men , that we have ever made or used similar arrow heads . 
It is possible that they were made by some pre historic race who used much longer and stronger bows , and who were workers in stone , which our people were not . 
He is always characterized as tricky , treacherous , and at the same time affable and charming , being not without the gifts of wit , prophecy , and eloquence . 
He is an adroit magician , able to assume almost any form at will , and impervious to any amount of ridicule and insult . 
The warning conveyed in the story of Unk to mee was ever used with success by Indian parents , and especially grandparents , in the instruction of their children . 
After the battle with the animals , there followed a battle with the elements , which in some measure parallels the Old Testament story of the flood . 
In this case , the purpose seems to have been to destroy the wicked animal people , who were too many and too strong for the lone man . 
The legend tells us that when fall came , the First Born advised his younger brother to make for himself a warm tent of buffalo skins , and to store up much food . 
No sooner had he done this than it began to snow , and the snow fell steadily during many moons . 
The Little Boy Man made for himself snow shoes , and was thus enabled to hunt easily , while the animals fled from him with difficulty . 
Finally wolves , foxes , and ravens came to his door to beg for food , and he helped them , but many of the fiercer wild animals died of cold and starvation . 
One day , when the hungry ones appeared , the snow was higher than the tops of the teepee poles , but the Little Boy Man's fire kept a hole open and clear . 
The youth had now passed triumphantly through the various ordeals of his manhood . 
One day his Elder Brother spoke to him and said You have now conquered the animal people , and withstood the force of the elements . 
But how am I to do this ? replied the first man , who was only an inexperienced boy . 
He had no idea how to make love , so that the first courtship was done by the pretty and coquettish maidens of the Bird , Beaver , and Bear tribes . 
There are some touching and whimsical love stories which the rich imagination of the Indian has woven into this old legend . 
She was modestly dressed in gray , with a touch of jet about her pretty face , and she carried a basket of wild cherries which she shyly offered to the young man . 
His next camp was beside a clear , running stream , where a plump and industrious maid was busily at work chopping wood . 
He fell promptly in love with her also , and for some time they lived together in her cosy house by the waterside . 
After their boy was born , the wanderer wished very much to go back to his Elder Brother and to show him his wife and child . 
But the beaver woman refused to go , so at last he went alone for a short visit . 
This was the bear woman , from whom again he was afterward separated by some mishap . 
I have sometimes wondered why the scientific doctrine of man's descent has not in the same way apparently increased the white man's respect for these our humbler kin . 
Of the many later heroes or Hiawathas who appear in this voluminous unwritten book of ours , each introduced an epoch in the long story of man and his environment . 
It was this last who fought for man against his strongest enemies , such as Wazeeyah , the Cold or North Wind . 
There was a desperate battle between these two , in which first one had the advantage and then the other , until both were exhausted and declared a truce . 
VI ON THE BORDER LAND OF SPIRITS Death and Funeral Customs . 
The Sacred Lock of Hair . 
Reincarnation and the Converse of Spirits . 
The attitude of the Indian toward death , the test and background of life , is entirely consistent with his character and philosophy . 
Death has no terrors for him he meets it with simplicity and perfect calm , seeking only an honorable end as his last gift to his family and descendants . 
Therefore he courts death in battle on the other hand , he would regard it as disgraceful to be killed in a private quarrel . 
If one be dying at home , it is customary to carry his bed out of doors as the end approaches , that his spirit may pass under the open sky . 
Next to this , the matter that concerns him most is the parting with his dear ones , especially if he have any little children who must be left behind to suffer want . 
His family affections are strong , and he grieves intensely for the lost , even though he has unbounded faith in a spiritual companionship . 
The outward signs of mourning for the dead are far more spontaneous and convincing than is the correct and well ordered black of civilization . 
Both men and women among us loosen their hair and cut it according to the degree of relationship or of devotion . 
The men blacken their faces , and widows or bereaved parents sometimes gash their arms and legs till they are covered with blood . 
It was prepared by dressing in the finest clothes , together with some personal possessions and ornaments , wrapped in several robes , and finally in a secure covering of raw hide . 
Then the whole people would break camp and depart to a distance , leaving the dead alone in an honorable solitude . 
It was usual to choose a prominent hill with a commanding outlook for the last resting place of our dead . 
I recall a touching custom among us , which was designed to keep the memory of the departed near and warm in the bereaved household . 
A lock of hair of the beloved dead was wrapped in pretty clothing , such as it was supposed that he or she would like to wear if living . 
This spirit bundle , as it was called , was suspended from a tripod , and occupied a certain place in the lodge which was the place of honor . 
Certainly the Indian never doubted the immortal nature of the spirit or soul of man , but neither did he care to speculate upon its probable state or condition in a future life . 
The idea of a happy hunting ground is modern and probably borrowed , or invented by the white man . 
So much of reverence was due the disembodied spirit , that it was not customary with us even to name the dead aloud . 
A Sioux prophet predicted the coming of the white man fully fifty years before the event , and even described accurately his garments and weapons . 
Nevertheless , even during this period there was here and there a man of the old type who was implicitly believed in to the last . 
There were to be seven battles , all successful except the last , in which the Sioux were to be taken at a disadvantage and suffer crushing defeat . 
This was carried out to the letter . 
Our people surprised and slew many of the Ojibways in their villages , but in turn were followed and cunningly led into an ambush whence but few came out alive . 
This was only one of his remarkable prophecies . 
Another famous medicine man was born on the Rum River about one hundred and fifty years ago , and lived to be over a century old . 
He was born during a desperate battle with the Ojibways , at a moment when , as it seemed , the band of Sioux engaged were to be annihilated . 
The men immediately sent out scouts , and felled trees for a stockade , barely in time to meet and repel the predicted attack . 
Five years later , he repeated the service , and again saved his people from awful slaughter . 
The father of Little Crow , the chief who led the Minnesota massacre of , was another prophet of some note . 
Three of the Ojibways were indeed slain as he had said , but in the battle the old war prophet lost both of his two sons . 
There are many trustworthy men , and men of Christian faith , to vouch for these and similar events occurring as foretold . 
Some of us seemed to have a peculiar intuition for the locality of a grave , which they explained by saying that they had received a communication from the spirit of the departed . 
Of course , the outward signs of burial had been long since obliterated . 
The Scotch would certainly have declared that she had the second sight , for she had other remarkable premonitions or intuitions within my own recollection . 
I have heard her speak of a peculiar sensation in the breast , by which , as she said , she was advised of anything of importance concerning her absent children . 
Other native women have claimed a similar monitor , but I never heard of one who could interpret it with such accuracy . 
We were once camping on Lake Manitoba when we received news that my uncle and his family had been murdered several weeks before , at a fort some two hundred miles distant . 
While all our clan were wailing and mourning their loss , my grandmother calmly bade them cease , saying that her son was approaching , and that they would see him shortly . 
Although we had no other reason to doubt the ill tidings , it is a fact that my uncle came into camp two days after his reported death . 
It was already after sundown , but my grandmother became unaccountably nervous , and positively refused to pitch her tent . 
So we reluctantly went on down the river , and camped after dark at a secluded place . 
This incident made a great impression upon our people . 
Many of the Indians believed that one may be born more than once , and there were some who claimed to have full knowledge of a former incarnation . 
There were also those who held converse with a twin spirit , who had been born into another tribe or race . 
There was a well known Sioux war prophet who lived in the middle of the last century , so that he is still remembered by the old men of his band . 
After he had reached middle age , he declared that he had a spirit brother among the Ojibways , the ancestral enemies of the Sioux . 
He even named the band to which his brother belonged , and said that he also was a war prophet among his people . 
Since this was to be their first meeting since they were born as strangers , he earnestly begged the young men to resist the temptation to join battle with their tribal foes . 
The response came in like manner , and they entered the camp , with the peace pipe in the hands of the prophet . 
Lo , the stranger prophet advanced to meet them , and the people were greatly struck with the resemblance between the two men , who met and embraced one another with unusual fervor . 
It was quickly agreed by both parties that they should camp together for several days , and one evening the Sioux made a warriors' feast to which they invited many of the Ojibways . 
The prophet asked his twin brother to sing one of his sacred songs , and behold ! it was the very song that he himself was wont to sing . 
This proved to the warriors beyond doubt or cavil the claims of their seer . 
