There was nothing notable about him , except a slight contrast between the holiday gaiety of his clothes and the official gravity of his face . 
His clothes included a slight , pale grey jacket , a white waistcoat , and a silver straw hat with a grey blue ribbon . 
His lean face was dark by contrast , and ended in a curt black beard that looked Spanish and suggested an Elizabethan ruff . 
He was smoking a cigarette with the seriousness of an idler . 
Probably he would travel as some minor clerk or secretary connected with it but , of course , Valentin could not be certain nobody could be certain about Flambeau . 
Flambeau was a figure as statuesque and international as the Kaiser . 
Almost every morning the daily paper announced that he had escaped the consequences of one extraordinary crime by committing another . 
It is due to him to say that his fantastic physical strength was generally employed in such bloodless though undignified scenes his real crimes were chiefly those of ingenious and wholesale robbery . 
But each of his thefts was almost a new sin , and would make a story by itself . 
It was he who ran the great Tyrolean Dairy Company in London , with no dairies , no cows , no carts , no milk , but with some thousand subscribers . 
These he served by the simple operation of moving the little milk cans outside people's doors to the doors of his own customers . 
A sweeping simplicity , however , marked many of his experiments . 
It is said that he once repainted all the numbers in a street in the dead of night merely to divert one traveller into a trap . 
It is quite certain that he invented a portable pillar box , which he put up at corners in quiet suburbs on the chance of strangers dropping postal orders into it . 
Lastly , he was known to be a startling acrobat despite his huge figure , he could leap like a grasshopper and melt into the tree tops like a monkey . 
Hence the great Valentin , when he set out to find Flambeau , was perfectly aware that his adventures would not end when he had found him . 
But how was he to find him ? On this the great Valentin's ideas were still in process of settlement . 
There was one thing which Flambeau , with all his dexterity of disguise , could not cover , and that was his singular height . 
If Valentin's quick eye had caught a tall apple woman , a tall grenadier , or even a tolerably tall duchess , he might have arrested them on the spot . 
But all along his train there was nobody that could be a disguised Flambeau , any more than a cat could be a disguised giraffe . 
About the people on the boat he had already satisfied himself and the people picked up at Harwich or on the journey limited themselves with certainty to six . 
When it came to the last case , Valentin gave it up and almost laughed . 
The Eucharistic Congress had doubtless sucked out of their local stagnation many such creatures , blind and helpless , like moles disinterred . 
Valentin was a sceptic in the severe style of France , and could have no love for priests . 
But he could have pity for them , and this one might have provoked pity in anybody . 
He had a large , shabby umbrella , which constantly fell on the floor . 
He did not seem to know which was the right end of his return ticket . 
at Tottenham with all his parcels , and came back for his umbrella . 
When he did the last , Valentin even had the good nature to warn him not to take care of the silver by telling everybody about it . 
He alighted at Liverpool Street , however , quite conscientiously secure that he had not missed the criminal so far . 
As he was walking in the streets and squares beyond Victoria , he paused suddenly and stood . 
It was a quaint , quiet square , very typical of London , full of an accidental stillness . 
The tall , flat houses round looked at once prosperous and uninhabited the square of shrubbery in the centre looked as deserted as a green Pacific islet . 
It was an unreasonably attractive object , with dwarf plants in pots and long , striped blinds of lemon yellow and white . 
Valentin stood and smoked in front of the yellow white blinds and considered them long . 
The most incredible thing about miracles is that they happen . 
A few clouds in heaven do come together into the staring shape of one human eye . 
A tree does stand up in the landscape of a doubtful journey in the exact and elaborate shape of a note of interrogation . 
I have seen both these things myself within the last few days . 
Nelson does die in the instant of victory and a man named Williams does quite accidentally murder a man named Williamson it sounds like a sort of infanticide . 
In short , there is in life an element of elfin coincidence which people reckoning on the prosaic may perpetually miss . 
As it has been well expressed in the paradox of Poe , wisdom should reckon on the unforeseen . 
Aristide Valentin was unfathomably French and the French intelligence is intelligence specially and solely . 
He was not a thinking machine for that is a brainless phrase of modern fatalism and materialism . 
A machine only is a machine because it cannot think . 
But he was a thinking man , and a plain man at the same time . 
All his wonderful successes , that looked like conjuring , had been gained by plodding logic , by clear and commonplace French thought . 
The French electrify the world not by starting any paradox , they electrify it by carrying out a truism . 
They carry a truism so far as in the French Revolution . 
But exactly because Valentin understood reason , he understood the limits of reason . 
Only a man who knows nothing of motors talks of motoring without petrol only a man who knows nothing of reason talks of reasoning without strong , undisputed first principles . 
Here he had no strong first principles . 
In such a naked state of nescience , Valentin had a view and a method of his own . 
In such cases he reckoned on the unforeseen . 
In such cases , when he could not follow the train of the reasonable , he coldly and carefully followed the train of the unreasonable . 
He defended this crazy course quite logically . 
Somewhere a man must begin , and it had better be just where another man might stop . 
He went up the steps , and sitting down at a table by the window , asked for a cup of black coffee . 
He thought his detective brain as good as the criminal's , which was true . 
But he fully realised the disadvantage . 
He had put salt in it . 
He looked at the vessel from which the silvery powder had come it was certainly a sugar basin as unmistakably meant for sugar as a champagne bottle for champagne . 
He wondered why they should keep salt in it . 
He looked to see if there were any more orthodox vessels . 
Yes there were two salt cellars quite full . 
Perhaps there was some speciality in the condiment in the salt cellars . 
He tasted it it was sugar . 
Except for an odd splash of some dark fluid on one of the white papered walls , the whole place appeared neat , cheerful and ordinary . 
He rang the bell for the waiter . 
asked him to taste the sugar and see if it was up to the high reputation of the hotel . 
The result was that the waiter yawned suddenly and woke up . 
Do you play this delicate joke on your customers every morning ? inquired Valentin . 
He picked up the sugar basin and looked at it he picked up the salt cellar and looked at that , his face growing more and more bewildered . 
At last he abruptly excused himself , and hurrying away , returned in a few seconds with the proprietor . 
The proprietor also examined the sugar basin and then the salt cellar the proprietor also looked bewildered . 
Suddenly the waiter seemed to grow inarticulate with a rush of words . 
I zink , he stuttered eagerly , I zink it is those two clergy men . 
What two clergymen ? The two clergymen , said the waiter , that threw soup at the wall . 
Threw soup at the wall ? repeated Valentin , feeling sure this must be some singular Italian metaphor . 
Yes , yes , said the attendant excitedly , and pointed at the dark splash on the white paper threw it over there on the wall . 
Valentin looked his query at the proprietor , who came to his rescue with fuller reports . 
Yes , sir , he said , it's quite true , though I don't suppose it has anything to do with the sugar and salt . 
Two clergymen came in and drank soup here very early , as soon as the shutters were taken down . 
But he went at last . 
Only , the instant before he stepped into the street he deliberately picked up his cup , which he had only half emptied , and threw the soup slap on the wall . 
I was in the back room myself , and so was the waiter so I could only rush out in time to find the wall splashed and the shop empty . 
It don't do any particular damage , but it was confounded cheek and I tried to catch the men in the street . 
They were too far off though I only noticed they went round the next corner into Carstairs Street . 
The detective was on his feet , hat settled and stick in hand . 
He had already decided that in the universal darkness of his mind he could only follow the first odd finger that pointed and this finger was odd enough . 
Paying his bill and clashing the glass doors behind him , he was soon swinging round into the other street . 
It was fortunate that even in such fevered moments his eye was cool and quick . 
Something in a shop front went by him like a mere flash yet he went back to look at it . 
The shop was a popular greengrocer and fruiterer's , an array of goods set out in the open air and plainly ticketed with their names and prices . 
In the two most prominent compartments were two heaps , of oranges and of nuts respectively . 
On the heap of nuts lay a scrap of cardboard , on which was written in bold , blue chalk , Best tangerine oranges , two a penny . 
On the oranges was the equally clear and exact description , Finest Brazil nuts , d . 
M. Valentin looked at these two placards and fancied he had met this highly subtle form of humour before , and that somewhat recently . 
He drew the attention of the red faced fruiterer , who was looking rather sullenly up and down the street , to this inaccuracy in his advertisements . 
The fruiterer said nothing , but sharply put each card into its proper place . 
The detective , leaning elegantly on his walking cane , continued to scrutinise the shop . 
At last he said , Pray excuse my apparent irrelevance , my good sir , but I should like to ask you a question in experimental psychology and the association of ideas . 
Indeed ? asked the detective , with great sympathy . 
Did they upset your apples ? One of 'em did , said the heated shopman rolled 'em all over the street . 
I'd 'ave caught the fool but for havin' to pick 'em up . 
Which way did these parsons go ? asked Valentin . 
Up that second road on the left hand side , and then across the square , said the other promptly . 
Thanks , replied Valentin , and vanished like a fairy . 
I 'ave , sir and if you arst me , one of 'em was drunk . 
He stood in the middle of the road that bewildered that Which way did they go ? snapped Valentin . 
They took one of them yellow buses over there , answered the man them that go to Hampstead . 
In a minute and a half the French detective was joined on the opposite pavement by an inspector and a man in plain clothes . 
Well , sir , began the former , with smiling importance , and what may ? Valentin pointed suddenly with his cane . 
I'll tell you on the top of that omnibus , he said , and was darting and dodging across the tangle of the traffic . 
When all three sank panting on the top seats of the yellow vehicle , the inspector said We could go four times as quick in a taxi . 
Quite true , replied their leader placidly , if we only had an idea of where we were going . 
Well , where are you going ? asked the other , staring . 
Stray when he strays stop when he stops travel as slowly as he . 
Then you may see what he saw and may act as he acted . 
All we can do is to keep our eyes skinned for a queer thing . 
What sort of queer thing do you mean ? asked the inspector . 
Any sort of queer thing , answered Valentin , and relapsed into obstinate silence . 
London died away in draggled taverns and dreary scrubs , and then was unaccountably born again in blazing high streets and blatant hotels . 
It was like passing through thirteen separate vulgar cities all just touching each other . 
It was a large window , forming part of the long facade of a gilt and palatial public house it was the part reserved for respectable dining , and labelled Restaurant . 
Our cue at last , cried Valentin , waving his stick the place with the broken window . 
What window ? What cue ? asked his principal assistant . 
Why , what proof is there that this has anything to do with them ? Valentin almost broke his bamboo stick with rage . 
Good God ! the man is looking for proof ! Why , of course , the chances are twenty to one that it has nothing to do with them . 
Not that it was very informative to them even then . 
Got your window broken , I see , said Valentin to the waiter as he paid the bill . 
Yes , sir , answered the attendant , bending busily over the change , to which Valentin silently added an enormous tip . 
The waiter straightened himself with mild but unmistakable animation . 
Ah , yes , sir , he said . 
Very odd thing , that , sir . 
Indeed ? Tell us about it , said the detective with careless curiosity . 
Well , two gents in black came in , said the waiter two of those foreign parsons that are running about . 
They had a cheap and quiet little lunch , and one of them paid for it and went out . 
The other was just going out to join him when I looked at my change again and found he'd paid me more than three times too much . 
Here , I says to the chap who was nearly out of the door , you've paid too much . 
Oh , he says , very cool , have we ? 'Yes , I says , and picks up the bill to show him . 
Well , that was a knock out . 
What do you mean ? asked his interlocutor . 
Well , I'd have sworn on seven Bibles that I'd put s . 
But now I saw I'd put s . 
, as plain as paint . 
What window ? I says . 
The one I'm going to break , he says , and smashed that blessed pane with his umbrella . 
The man marched out of the place and joined his friend just round the corner . 
Then they went so quick up Bullock Street that I couldn't catch them , though I ran round the bars to do it . 
Bullock Street , said the detective , and shot up that thoroughfare as quickly as the strange couple he pursued . 
Their journey now took them through bare brick ways like tunnels streets with few lights and even with few windows streets that seemed built out of the blank backs of everything and everywhere . 
Dusk was deepening , and it was not easy even for the London policemen to guess in what exact direction they were treading . 
The inspector , however , was pretty certain that they would eventually strike some part of Hampstead Heath . 
Abruptly one bulging gas lit window broke the blue twilight like a bull's eye lantern and Valentin stopped an instant before a little garish sweetstuff shop . 
After an instant's hesitation he went in he stood amid the gaudy colours of the confectionery with entire gravity and bought thirteen chocolate cigars with a certain care . 
He was clearly preparing an opening but he did not need one . 
Oh , she said , if you've come about that parcel , I've sent it off already . 
Parcel ? repeated Valentin and it was his turn to look inquiring . 
I mean the parcel the gentleman left the clergyman gentleman . 
For goodness' sake , said Valentin , leaning forward with his first real confession of eagerness , for Heaven's sake tell us what happened exactly . 
And sure enough , though I thought I'd looked everywhere , I found he'd left a brown paper parcel , so I posted it to the place he said . 
I can't remember the address now it was somewhere in Westminster . 
But as the thing seemed so important , I thought perhaps the police had come about it . 
So they have , said Valentin shortly . 
Is Hampstead Heath near here ? Straight on for fifteen minutes , said the woman , and you'll come right out on the open . 
Valentin sprang out of the shop and began to run . 
The other detectives followed him at a reluctant trot . 
A perfect dome of peacock green sank into gold amid the blackening trees and the dark violet distances . 
The glowing green tint was just deep enough to pick out in points of crystal one or two stars . 
All that was left of the daylight lay in a golden glitter across the edge of Hampstead and that popular hollow which is called the Vale of Health . 
The holiday makers who roam this region had not wholly dispersed a few couples sat shapelessly on benches and here and there a distant girl still shrieked in one of the swings . 
The glory of heaven deepened and darkened around the sublime vulgarity of man and standing on the slope and looking across the valley , Valentin beheld the thing which he sought . 
Among the black and breaking groups in that distance was one especially black which did not break a group of two figures clerically clad . 
Though they seemed as small as insects , Valentin could see that one of them was much smaller than the other . 
Though the other had a student's stoop and an inconspicuous manner , he could see that the man was well over six feet high . 
He shut his teeth and went forward , whirling his stick impatiently . 
Whoever was the tall priest , there could be no doubt about the identity of the short one . 
It was his friend of the Harwich train , the stumpy little cure of Essex whom he had warned about his brown paper parcels . 
Now , so far as this went , everything fitted in finally and rationally enough . 
This undoubtedly was the silver with blue stones and Father Brown undoubtedly was the little greenhorn in the train . 
Now there was nothing wonderful about the fact that what Valentin had found out Flambeau had also found out Flambeau found out everything . 
Also there was nothing wonderful in the fact that when Flambeau heard of a sapphire cross he should try to steal it that was the most natural thing in all natural history . 
And most certainly there was nothing wonderful about the fact that Flambeau should have it all his own way with such a silly sheep as the man with the umbrella and the parcels . 
So far the crime seemed clear enough and while the detective pitied the priest for his helplessness , he almost despised Flambeau for condescending to so gullible a victim . 
, he had usually grasped the clue , but nevertheless missed the criminal . 
Here he had grasped the criminal , but still he could not grasp the clue . 
The two figures that they followed were crawling like black flies across the huge green contour of a hill . 
They were evidently sunk in conversation , and perhaps did not notice where they were going but they were certainly going to the wilder and more silent heights of the Heath . 
Once over an abrupt dip of land and a dense tangle of thickets , the detectives actually lost the two figures they were following . 
Under a tree in this commanding yet neglected spot was an old ramshackle wooden seat . 
On this seat sat the two priests still in serious speech together . 
After he had listened for a minute and a half , he was gripped by a devilish doubt . 
Perhaps he had dragged the two English policemen to the wastes of a nocturnal heath on an errand no saner than seeking figs on its thistles . 
For the two priests were talking exactly like priests , piously , with learning and leisure , about the most aerial enigmas of theology . 
But no more innocently clerical conversation could have been heard in any white Italian cloister or black Spanish cathedral . 
The first he heard was the tail of one of Father Brown's sentences , which ended . 
what they really meant in the Middle Ages by the heavens being incorruptible . 
I know that people charge the Church with lowering reason , but it is just the other way . 
Alone on earth , the Church makes reason really supreme . 
Alone on earth , the Church affirms that God himself is bound by reason . 
Valentin behind his tree was tearing his fingernails with silent fury . 
He seemed almost to hear the sniggers of the English detectives whom he had brought so far on a fantastic guess only to listen to the metaphysical gossip of two mild old parsons . 
Don't they look as if they were single diamonds and sapphires ? Well , you can imagine any mad botany or geology you please . 
Think of forests of adamant with leaves of brilliants . 
Think the moon is a blue moon , a single elephantine sapphire . 
But don't fancy that all that frantic astronomy would make the smallest difference to the reason and justice of conduct . 
On plains of opal , under cliffs cut out of pearl , you would still find a notice board , Thou shalt not steal . 
Valentin was just in the act of rising from his rigid and crouching attitude and creeping away as softly as might be , felled by the one great folly of his life . 
But something in the very silence of the tall priest made him stop until the latter spoke . 
The mystery of heaven is unfathomable , and I for one can only bow my head . 
The utterly unaltered voice and attitude added a strange violence to that shocking change of speech . 
But the guarder of the relic only seemed to turn his head by the smallest section of the compass . 
He seemed still to have a somewhat foolish face turned to the stars . 
Perhaps he had not understood . 
Or , perhaps , he had understood and sat rigid with terror . 
Yes , said the tall priest , in the same low voice and in the same still posture , yes , I am Flambeau . 
Then , after a pause , he said Come , will you give me that cross ? No , said the other , and the monosyllable had an odd sound . 
Flambeau suddenly flung off all his pontifical pretensions . 
The great robber leaned back in his seat and laughed low but long . 
No , he cried , you won't give it me , you proud prelate . 
You won't give it me , you little celibate simpleton . 
Shall I tell you why you won't give it me ? Because I've got it already in my own breast pocket . 
Really , you're as good as a three act farce , he cried . 
Yes , you turnip , I am quite sure . 
I had the sense to make a duplicate of the right parcel , and now , my friend , you've got the duplicate and I've got the jewels . 
An old dodge , Father Brown a very old dodge . 
Yes , said Father Brown , and passed his hand through his hair with the same strange vagueness of manner . 
Yes , I've heard of it before . 
The colossus of crime leaned over to the little rustic priest with a sort of sudden interest . 
You have heard of it ? he asked . 
Where have you heard of it ? Well , I mustn't tell you his name , of course , said the little man simply . 
He was a penitent , you know . 
He had lived prosperously for about twenty years entirely on duplicate brown paper parcels . 
And so , you see , when I began to suspect you , I thought of this poor chap's way of doing it at once . 
Began to suspect me ? repeated the outlaw with increased intensity . 
You see , I suspected you when we first met . 
It's that little bulge up the sleeve where you people have the spiked bracelet . 
When I was a curate in Hartlepool , there were three of them with spiked bracelets . 
So , as I suspected you from the first , don't you see , I made sure that the cross should go safe , anyhow . 
I'm afraid I watched you , you know . 
So at last I saw you change the parcels . 
Then , don't you see , I changed them back again . 
And then I left the right one behind . 
Left it behind ? repeated Flambeau , and for the first time there was another note in his voice beside his triumph . 
Well , it was like this , said the little priest , speaking in the same unaffected way . 
I went back to that sweet shop and asked if I'd left a parcel , and gave them a particular address if it turned up . 
Well , I knew I hadn't but when I went away again I did . 
So , instead of running after me with that valuable parcel , they have sent it flying to a friend of mine in Westminster . 
Then he added rather sadly I learnt that , too , from a poor fellow in Hartlepool . 
He used to do it with handbags he stole at railway stations , but he's in a monastery now . 
Oh , one gets to know , you know , he added , rubbing his head again with the same sort of desperate apology . 
We can't help being priests . 
People come and tell us these things . 
Flambeau tore a brown paper parcel out of his inner pocket and rent it in pieces . 
There was nothing but paper and sticks of lead inside it . 
He sprang to his feet with a gigantic gesture , and cried I don't believe you . 
I don't believe a bumpkin like you could manage all that . 
First , because I really haven't still got it . 
And , second , because we are not alone . 
Flambeau stopped in his stride forward . 
Behind that tree , said Father Brown , pointing , are two strong policemen and the greatest detective alive . 
So I just tested you to see if anything would make you show yourself . 
A man generally makes a small scene if he finds salt in his coffee if he doesn't , he has some reason for keeping quiet . 
I changed the salt and sugar , and you kept quiet . 
A man generally objects if his bill is three times too big . 
If he pays it , he has some motive for passing unnoticed . 
I altered your bill , and you paid it . 
The world seemed waiting for Flambeau to leap like a tiger . 
But he was held back as by a spell he was stunned with the utmost curiosity . 
Well , went on Father Brown , with lumbering lucidity , as you wouldn't leave any tracks for the police , of course somebody had to . 
At every place we went to , I took care to do something that would get us talked about for the rest of the day . 
I didn't do much harm a splashed wall , spilt apples , a broken window but I saved the cross , as the cross will always be saved . 
It is at Westminster by now . 
I rather wonder you didn't stop it with the Donkey's Whistle . 
With the what ? asked Flambeau . 
I'm glad you've never heard of it , said the priest , making a face . 
I'm sure you're too good a man for a Whistler . 
I couldn't have countered it even with the Spots myself I'm not strong enough in the legs . 
What on earth are you talking about ? asked the other . 
Well , I did think you'd know the Spots , said Father Brown , agreeably surprised . 
Oh , you can't have gone so very wrong yet ! How in blazes do you know all these horrors ? cried Flambeau . 
The shadow of a smile crossed the round , simple face of his clerical opponent . 
Oh , by being a celibate simpleton , I suppose , he said . 
What ? asked the thief , almost gaping . 
You attacked reason , said Father Brown . 
And even as he turned away to collect his property , the three policemen came out from under the twilight trees . 
Flambeau was an artist and a sportsman . 
He stepped back and swept Valentin a great bow . 
Do not bow to me , mon ami , said Valentin with silver clearness . 
Let us both bow to our master . 
And they both stood an instant uncovered while the little Essex priest blinked about for his umbrella . 
The Secret Garden Aristide Valentin , Chief of the Paris Police , was late for his dinner , and some of his guests began to arrive before him . 
Valentin's house was perhaps as peculiar and celebrated as its master . 
The garden was large and elaborate , and there were many exits from the house into the garden . 
As Ivan explained to the guests , their host had telephoned that he was detained for ten minutes . 
He was , in truth , making some last arrangements about executions and such ugly things and though these duties were rootedly repulsive to him , he always performed them with precision . 
Ruthless in the pursuit of criminals , he was very mild about their punishment . 
Since he had been supreme over French and largely over European policial methods , his great influence had been honourably used for the mitigation of sentences and the purification of prisons . 
He was one of the great humanitarian French freethinkers and the only thing wrong with them is that they make mercy even colder than justice . 
When Valentin arrived he was already dressed in black clothes and the red rosette an elegant figure , his dark beard already streaked with grey . 
He went straight through his house to his study , which opened on the grounds behind . 
A sharp moon was fighting with the flying rags and tatters of a storm , and Valentin regarded it with a wistfulness unusual in such scientific natures as his . 
Perhaps such scientific natures have some psychic prevision of the most tremendous problem of their lives . 
From any such occult mood , at least , he quickly recovered , for he knew he was late , and that his guests had already begun to arrive . 
A glance at his drawing room when he entered it was enough to make certain that his principal guest was not there , at any rate . 
He saw Lady Galloway , slim and threadlike , with silver hair and a face sensitive and superior . 
He saw her daughter , Lady Margaret Graham , a pale and pretty girl with an elfish face and copper coloured hair . 
He saw the Duchess of Mont St . 
Michel , black eyed and opulent , and with her her two daughters , black eyed and opulent also . 
He saw Father Brown , of Cobhole , in Essex , whom he had recently met in England . 
This was Commandant O'Brien , of the French Foreign Legion . 
He was by birth an Irish gentleman , and in boyhood had known the Galloways especially Margaret Graham . 
He had left his country after some crash of debts , and now expressed his complete freedom from British etiquette by swinging about in uniform , sabre and spurs . 
When he bowed to the Ambassador's family , Lord and Lady Galloway bent stiffly , and Lady Margaret looked away . 
But for whatever old causes such people might be interested in each other , their distinguished host was not specially interested in them . 
No one of them at least was in his eyes the guest of the evening . 
Valentin was expecting , for special reasons , a man of world wide fame , whose friendship he had secured during some of his great detective tours and triumphs in the United States . 
One of his hobbies was to wait for the American Shakespeare a hobby more patient than angling . 
He admired Walt Whitman , but thought that Luke P. Tanner , of Paris , Pa . 
, was more progressive than Whitman any day . 
He liked anything that he thought progressive . 
He thought Valentin progressive , thereby doing him a grave injustice . 
The solid appearance of Julius K. Brayne in the room was as decisive as a dinner bell . 
He had this great quality , which very few of us can claim , that his presence was as big as his absence . 
He was a huge fellow , as fat as he was tall , clad in complete evening black , without so much relief as a watch chain or a ring . 
Except on one point the Galloways were genial and casual enough . 
Nevertheless , old Lord Galloway was restless and almost rude . 
He was stung every sixty seconds with the thought that the scamp O'Brien might be signalling to Margaret somehow he did not attempt to imagine how . 
He was left over the coffee with Brayne , the hoary Yankee who believed in all religions , and Valentin , the grizzled Frenchman who believed in none . 
They could argue with each other , but neither could appeal to him . 
After a time this progressive logomachy had reached a crisis of tedium Lord Galloway got up also and sought the drawing room . 
They also , he thought with a curse , were probably arguing about science and religion . 
But the instant he opened the salon door he saw only one thing he saw what was not there . 
He saw that Commandant O'Brien was absent , and that Lady Margaret was absent too . 
Rising impatiently from the drawing room , as he had from the dining room , he stamped along the passage once more . 
His notion of protecting his daughter from the Irish Algerian n'er do weel had become something central and even mad in his mind . 
The moon with her scimitar had now ripped up and rolled away all the storm wrack . 
The argent light lit up all four corners of the garden . 
A tall figure in blue was striding across the lawn towards the study door a glint of moonlit silver on his facings picked him out as Commandant O'Brien . 
He vanished through the French windows into the house , leaving Lord Galloway in an indescribable temper , at once virulent and vague . 
The blue and silver garden , like a scene in a theatre , seemed to taunt him with all that tyrannic tenderness against which his worldly authority was at war . 
The length and grace of the Irishman's stride enraged him as if he were a rival instead of a father the moonlight maddened him . 
As he did so he tripped over some tree or stone in the grass looked down at it first with irritation and then a second time with curiosity . 
The next instant the moon and the tall poplars looked at an unusual sight an elderly English diplomatist running hard and crying or bellowing as he ran . 
His hoarse shouts brought a pale face to the study door , the beaming glasses and worried brow of Dr . 
Simon , who heard the nobleman's first clear words . 
Lord Galloway was crying A corpse in the grass a blood stained corpse . 
O'Brien at last had gone utterly out of his mind . 
We must tell Valentin at once , said the doctor , when the other had brokenly described all that he had dared to examine . 
It is fortunate that he is here and even as he spoke the great detective entered the study , attracted by the cry . 
It was almost amusing to note his typical transformation he had come with the common concern of a host and a gentleman , fearing that some guest or servant was ill . 
When he was told the gory fact , he turned with all his gravity instantly bright and businesslike for this , however abrupt and awful , was his business . 
A scarlet serpent of blood crawled from under his fallen face . 
At least , said Simon , with a deep and singular intonation , he is none of our party . 
Examine him , doctor , cried Valentin rather sharply . 
He may not be dead . 
He is not quite cold , but I am afraid he is dead enough , he answered . 
Just help me to lift him up . 
They lifted him carefully an inch from the ground , and all doubts as to his being really dead were settled at once and frightfully . 
It had been entirely sundered from the body whoever had cut his throat had managed to sever the neck as well . 
Even Valentin was slightly shocked . 
He must have been as strong as a gorilla , he muttered . 
Not without a shiver , though he was used to anatomical abortions , Dr . 
It was slightly slashed about the neck and jaw , but the face was substantially unhurt . 
All present seemed to look at it with the coldest eye of ignorance . 
Simon said , the man had never been of their party . 
But he might very well have been trying to join it , for he had come dressed for such an occasion . 
Nothing rewarded their grovellings except a few twigs , snapped or chopped into very small lengths , which Valentin lifted for an instant's examination and then tossed away . 
Twigs , he said gravely twigs , and a total stranger with his head cut off that is all there is on this lawn . 
I say , he said meekly , there are no gates to this garden , do you know . 
Valentin's black brows had come together somewhat crossly , as they did on principle at the sight of the cassock . 
But he was far too just a man to deny the relevance of the remark . 
You are right , he said . 
Before we find out how he came to be killed , we may have to find out how he came to be here . 
Now listen to me , gentlemen . 
If it can be done without prejudice to my position and duty , we shall all agree that certain distinguished names might well be kept out of this . 
There are ladies , gentlemen , and there is a foreign ambassador . 
If we must mark it down as a crime , then it must be followed up as a crime . 
But till then I can use my own discretion . 
I am the head of the police I am so public that I can afford to be private . 
Please Heaven , I will clear everyone of my own guests before I call in my men to look for anybody else . 
Gentlemen , upon your honour , you will none of you leave the house till tomorrow at noon there are bedrooms for all . 
Simon , I think you know where to find my man , Ivan , in the front hall he is a confidential man . 
Tell him to leave another servant on guard and come to me at once . 
Lord Galloway , you are certainly the best person to tell the ladies what has happened , and prevent a panic . 
Father Brown and I will remain with the body . 
When this spirit of the captain spoke in Valentin he was obeyed like a bugle . 
Simon went through to the armoury and routed out Ivan , the public detective's private detective . 
Galloway went to the drawing room and told the terrible news tactfully enough , so that by the time the company assembled there the ladies were already startled and already soothed . 
Meanwhile the good priest and the good atheist stood at the head and foot of the dead man motionless in the moonlight , like symbolic statues of their two philosophies of death . 
His livid face was quite lively with the glow of this domestic detective story , and it was with almost unpleasant eagerness that he asked his master's permission to examine the remains . 
Yes look , if you like , Ivan , said Valentin , but don't be long . 
We must go in and thrash this out in the house . 
Ivan lifted the head , and then almost let it drop . 
Why , he gasped , it's no , it isn't it can't be . 
Do you know this man , sir ? No , said Valentin indifferently we had better go inside . 
Between them they carried the corpse to a sofa in the study , and then all made their way to the drawing room . 
The detective sat down at a desk quietly , and even without hesitation but his eye was the iron eye of a judge at assize . 
He made a few rapid notes upon paper in front of him , and then said shortly Is everybody here ? Not Mr. Brayne , said the Duchess of Mont St . 
No , said Lord Galloway in a hoarse , harsh voice . 
And not Mr. Neil O'Brien , I fancy . 
I saw that gentleman walking in the garden when the corpse was still warm . 
Ivan , said the detective , go and fetch Commandant O'Brien and Mr. Brayne . 
Mr. Brayne , I know , is finishing a cigar in the dining room Commandant O'Brien , I think , is walking up and down the conservatory . 
The faithful attendant flashed from the room , and before anyone could stir or speak Valentin went on with the same soldierly swiftness of exposition . 
Everyone here knows that a dead man has been found in the garden , his head cut clean from his body . 
Simon , you have examined it . 
It's not easy to hack a neck through even clumsily , and this was a very clean cut . 
It could be done with a battle axe or an old headsman's axe , or an old two handed sword . 
But , good heavens ! cried the Duchess , almost in hysterics , there aren't any two handed swords and battle axes round here . 
Valentin was still busy with the paper in front of him . 
Amid that frozen silence Dr . 
Simon managed to say A sabre yes , I suppose it could . 
Thank you , said Valentin . 
The confidential Ivan opened the door and ushered in Commandant Neil O'Brien , whom he had found at last pacing the garden again . 
The Irish officer stood up disordered and defiant on the threshold . 
What do you want with me ? he cried . 
Please sit down , said Valentin in pleasant , level tones . 
Why , you aren't wearing your sword . 
Where is it ? I left it on the library table , said O'Brien , his brogue deepening in his disturbed mood . 
It was a nuisance , it was getting Ivan , said Valentin , please go and get the Commandant's sword from the library . 
Then , as the servant vanished , Lord Galloway says he saw you leaving the garden just before he found the corpse . 
What were you doing in the garden ? The Commandant flung himself recklessly into a chair . 
Oh , he cried in pure Irish , admirin' the moon . 
Communing with Nature , me bhoy . 
A heavy silence sank and endured , and at the end of it came again that trivial and terrible knocking . 
Ivan reappeared , carrying an empty steel scabbard . 
This is all I can find , he said . 
Put it on the table , said Valentin , without looking up . 
There was an inhuman silence in the room , like that sea of inhuman silence round the dock of the condemned murderer . 
The Duchess's weak exclamations had long ago died away . 
Lord Galloway's swollen hatred was satisfied and even sobered . 
The voice that came was quite unexpected . 
I think I can tell you , cried Lady Margaret , in that clear , quivering voice with which a courageous woman speaks publicly . 
I can tell you what Mr. O'Brien was doing in the garden , since he is bound to silence . 
He was asking me to marry him . 
I refused I said in my family circumstances I could give him nothing but my respect . 
He was a little angry at that he did not seem to think much of my respect . 
I wonder , she added , with rather a wan smile , if he will care at all for it now . 
For I offer it him now . 
I will swear anywhere that he never did a thing like this . 
Lord Galloway had edged up to his daughter , and was intimidating her in what he imagined to be an undertone . 
Hold your tongue , Maggie , he said in a thunderous whisper . 
But if he wasn't innocent , he was still with me . 
Everyone else sat tingling at the touch of those satanic tragedies that have been between lovers before now . 
They saw the proud , white face of the Scotch aristocrat and her lover , the Irish adventurer , like old portraits in a dark house . 
The long silence was full of formless historical memories of murdered husbands and poisonous paramours . 
I mean , said little Father Brown , from the corner of the room , I mean that cigar Mr. Brayne is finishing . 
It seems nearly as long as a walking stick . 
Despite the irrelevance there was assent as well as irritation in Valentin's face as he lifted his head . 
Quite right , he remarked sharply . 
Ivan , go and see about Mr. Brayne again , and bring him here at once . 
The instant the factotum had closed the door , Valentin addressed the girl with an entirely new earnestness . 
Lady Margaret , he said , we all feel , I am sure , both gratitude and admiration for your act in rising above your lower dignity and explaining the Commandant's conduct . 
But there is a hiatus still . 
You have to remember , replied Margaret , with a faint irony in her voice , that I had just refused him , so we should scarcely have come back arm in arm . 
He is a gentleman , anyhow and he loitered behind and so got charged with murder . 
In those few moments , said Valentin gravely , he might really The knock came again , and Ivan put in his scarred face . 
Beg pardon , sir , he said , but Mr. Brayne has left the house . 
Left ! cried Valentin , and rose for the first time to his feet . 
Evaporated , replied Ivan in humorous French . 
His hat and coat are gone , too , and I'll tell you something to cap it all . 
I ran outside the house to find any traces of him , and I found one , and a big trace , too . 
What do you mean ? asked Valentin . 
I'll show you , said his servant , and reappeared with a flashing naked cavalry sabre , streaked with blood about the point and edge . 
In other words , I found it just where your respectable Mr. Brayne threw it when he ran away . 
There was again a silence , but of a new sort . 
Valentin took the sabre , examined it , reflected with unaffected concentration of thought , and then turned a respectful face to O'Brien . 
Commandant , he said , we trust you will always produce this weapon if it is wanted for police examination . 
Meanwhile , he added , slapping the steel back in the ringing scabbard , let me return you your sword . 
At the military symbolism of the action the audience could hardly refrain from applause . 
For Neil O'Brien , indeed , that gesture was the turning point of existence . 
Lord Galloway was a gentleman , and had offered him an apology . 
The devil was cast out of the house he had cast himself out . 
Still , the riddle remained and when O'Brien threw himself on a garden seat beside Dr . 
Simon , that keenly scientific person at once resumed it . 
He did not get much talk out of O'Brien , whose thoughts were on pleasanter things . 
I can't say it interests me much , said the Irishman frankly , especially as it seems pretty plain now . 
Apparently Brayne hated this stranger for some reason lured him into the garden , and killed him with my sword . 
Then he fled to the city , tossing the sword away as he went . 
By the way , Ivan tells me the dead man had a Yankee dollar in his pocket . 
So he was a countryman of Brayne's , and that seems to clinch it . 
I don't see any difficulties about the business . 
There are five colossal difficulties , said the doctor quietly like high walls within walls . 
I don't doubt that Brayne did it his flight , I fancy , proves that . 
But as to how he did it . 
Is a trifle , I suppose , said the doctor , but I think an odd one . 
When I first saw how the head had been slashed , I supposed the assassin had struck more than once . 
But on examination I found many cuts across the truncated section in other words , they were struck after the head was off . 
Did Brayne hate his foe so fiendishly that he stood sabring his body in the moonlight ? Horrible ! said O'Brien , and shuddered . 
The little priest , Brown , had arrived while they were talking , and had waited , with characteristic shyness , till they had finished . 
Then he said awkwardly I say , I'm sorry to interrupt . 
But I was sent to tell you the news ! News ? repeated Simon , and stared at him rather painfully through his glasses . 
Yes , I'm sorry , said Father Brown mildly . 
There's been another murder , you know . 
Both men on the seat sprang up , leaving it rocking . 
And , what's stranger still , continued the priest , with his dull eye on the rhododendrons , it's the same disgusting sort it's another beheading . 
They found the second head actually bleeding into the river , a few yards along Brayne's road to Paris so they suppose that he Great Heaven ! cried O'Brien . 
Is Brayne a monomaniac ? There are American vendettas , said the priest impassively . 
Then he added They want you to come to the library and see it . 
Commandant O'Brien followed the others towards the inquest , feeling decidedly sick . 
it was not true that two heads were better than one . 
As he crossed the study he almost staggered at a shocking coincidence . 
Upon Valentin's table lay the coloured picture of yet a third bleeding head and it was the head of Valentin himself . 
But O'Brien was an Irishman , with a kind of chastity even in his sins and his gorge rose against that great brutality of the intellect which belongs only to France . 
He felt Paris as a whole , from the grotesques on the Gothic churches to the gross caricatures in the newspapers . 
He remembered the gigantic jests of the Revolution . 
The library was long , low , and dark what light entered it shot from under low blinds and had still some of the ruddy tinge of morning . 
Valentin and his servant Ivan were waiting for them at the upper end of a long , slightly sloping desk , on which lay the mortal remains , looking enormous in the twilight . 
The big black figure and yellow face of the man found in the garden confronted them essentially unchanged . 
Father Brown , who did not seem to share O'Brien's sensibilities in the least , went up to the second head and examined it with his blinking care . 
Good morning , Commandant O'Brien , said Valentin , with quiet cordiality . 
Well , it seems common sense , said Valentin , with his hands in his pockets . 
Killed in the same way as the other . 
Found within a few yards of the other . 
And sliced by the same weapon which we know he carried away . 
Yes , yes I know , replied Father Brown submissively . 
Yet , you know , I doubt whether Brayne could have cut off this head . 
Why not ? inquired Dr . 
Simon , with a rational stare . 
Well , doctor , said the priest , looking up blinking , can a man cut off his own head ? I don't know . 
O'Brien felt an insane universe crashing about his ears but the doctor sprang forward with impetuous practicality and pushed back the wet white hair . 
Oh , there's no doubt it's Brayne , said the priest quietly . 
He had exactly that chip in the left ear . 
The detective , who had been regarding the priest with steady and glittering eyes , opened his clenched mouth and said sharply You seem to know a lot about him , Father Brown . 
I do , said the little man simply . 
I've been about with him for some weeks . 
He was thinking of joining our church . 
The star of the fanatic sprang into Valentin's eyes he strode towards the priest with clenched hands . 
And , perhaps , he cried , with a blasting sneer , perhaps he was also thinking of leaving all his money to your church . 
Perhaps he was , said Brown stolidly it is possible . 
In that case , cried Valentin , with a dreadful smile , you may indeed know a great deal about him . 
About his life and about his Commandant O'Brien laid a hand on Valentin's arm . 
Drop that slanderous rubbish , Valentin , he said , or there may be more swords yet . 
Well , he said shortly , people's private opinions can wait . 
You gentlemen are still bound by your promise to stay you must enforce it on yourselves and on each other . 
Ivan here will tell you anything more you want to know I must get to business and write to the authorities . 
We can't keep this quiet any longer . 
I shall be writing in my study if there is any more news . 
Is there any more news , Ivan ? asked Dr . 
Simon , as the chief of police strode out of the room . 
Only one more thing , I think , sir , said Ivan , wrinkling up his grey old face , but that's important , too , in its way . 
There's that old buffer you found on the lawn , and he pointed without pretence of reverence at the big black body with the yellow head . 
We've found out who he is , anyhow . 
Indeed ! cried the astonished doctor , and who is he ? His name was Arnold Becker , said the under detective , though he went by many aliases . 
He was a wandering sort of scamp , and is known to have been in America so that was where Brayne got his knife into him . 
We didn't have much to do with him ourselves , for he worked mostly in Germany . 
We've communicated , of course , with the German police . 
But , oddly enough , there was a twin brother of his , named Louis Becker , whom we had a great deal to do with . 
In fact , we found it necessary to guillotine him only yesterday . 
Well , it's a rum thing , gentlemen , but when I saw that fellow flat on the lawn I had the greatest jump of my life . 
If I hadn't seen Louis Becker guillotined with my own eyes , I'd have sworn it was Louis Becker lying there in the grass . 
Then , of course , I remembered his twin brother in Germany , and following up the clue The explanatory Ivan stopped , for the excellent reason that nobody was listening to him . 
Stop , stop , stop ! he cried stop talking a minute , for I see half . 
Will God give me strength ? Will my brain make the one jump and see all ? Heaven help me ! I used to be fairly good at thinking . 
I could paraphrase any page in Aquinas once . 
Will my head split or will it see ? I see half I only see half . 
When Father Brown's hands fell they showed a face quite fresh and serious , like a child's . 
He heaved a huge sigh , and said Let us get this said and done with as quickly as possible . 
Look here , this will be the quickest way to convince you all of the truth . 
He turned to the doctor . 
Simon , he said , you have a strong head piece , and I heard you this morning asking the five hardest questions about this business . 
Well , if you will ask them again , I will answer them . 
Simon's pince nez dropped from his nose in his doubt and wonder , but he answered at once . 
Why ? asked O'Brien , with interest . 
And the next question ? asked Father Brown . 
Well , why didn't the man cry out or anything ? asked the doctor sabres in gardens are certainly unusual . 
Twigs , said the priest gloomily , and turned to the window which looked on the scene of death . 
No one saw the point of the twigs . 
so far from any tree ? They were not snapped off they were chopped off . 
The murderer occupied his enemy with some tricks with the sabre , showing how he could cut a branch in mid air , or what not . 
Then , while his enemy bent down to see the result , a silent slash , and the head fell . 
Well , said the doctor slowly , that seems plausible enough . 
But my next two questions will stump anyone . 
The priest still stood looking critically out of the window and waited . 
You know how all the garden was sealed up like an air tight chamber , went on the doctor . 
Well , how did the strange man get into the garden ? Without turning round , the little priest answered There never was any strange man in the garden . 
There was a silence , and then a sudden cackle of almost childish laughter relieved the strain . 
The absurdity of Brown's remark moved Ivan to open taunts . 
Hang it all , cried Simon , a man gets into a garden , or he doesn't . 
Not necessarily , said the priest , with a faint smile . 
What is the nest question , doctor ? I fancy you're ill , exclaimed Dr . 
Simon sharply but I'll ask the next question if you like . 
How did Brayne get out of the garden ? He didn't get out of the garden , said the priest , still looking out of the window . 
Didn't get out of the garden ? exploded Simon . 
Not completely , said Father Brown . 
Simon shook his fists in a frenzy of French logic . 
A man gets out of a garden , or he doesn't , he cried . 
Not always , said Father Brown . 
Simon sprang to his feet impatiently . 
I have no time to spare on such senseless talk , he cried angrily . 
If you can't understand a man being on one side of a wall or the other , I won't trouble you further . 
Doctor , said the cleric very gently , we have always got on very pleasantly together . 
If only for the sake of old friendship , stop and tell me your fifth question . 
The impatient Simon sank into a chair by the door and said briefly The head and shoulders were cut about in a queer way . 
It seemed to be done after death . 
Yes , said the motionless priest , it was done so as to make you assume exactly the one simple falsehood that you did assume . 
It was done to make you take for granted that the head belonged to the body . 
The borderland of the brain , where all the monsters are made , moved horribly in the Gaelic O'Brien . 
He felt the chaotic presence of all the horse men and fish women that man's unnatural fancy has begotten . 
A voice older than his first fathers seemed saying in his ear Keep out of the monstrous garden where grows the tree with double fruit . 
Avoid the evil garden where died the man with two heads . 
Father Brown had turned round at last , and stood against the window , with his face in dense shadow but even in that shadow they could see it was pale as ashes . 
Nevertheless , he spoke quite sensibly , as if there were no Gaelic souls on earth . 
Gentlemen , he said , you did not find the strange body of Becker in the garden . 
You did not find any strange body in the garden . 
Simon's rationalism , I still affirm that Becker was only partly present . 
you never saw that man in your lives . 
Did you ever see this man ? He rapidly rolled away the bald , yellow head of the unknown , and put in its place the white maned head beside it . 
And there , complete , unified , unmistakable , lay Julius K. Brayne . 
The murderer , went on Brown quietly , hacked off his enemy's head and flung the sword far over the wall . 
But he was too clever to fling the sword only . 
He flung the head over the wall also . 
you all imagined a totally new man . 
Clap on another head ! said O'Brien staring . 
They grow in the basket of the guillotine , beside which the chief of police , Aristide Valentin , was standing not an hour before the murder . 
Oh , my friends , hear me a minute more before you tear me in pieces . 
Valentin is an honest man , if being mad for an arguable cause is honesty . 
He has fought for it and starved for it , and now he has murdered for it . 
Brayne's crazy millions had hitherto been scattered among so many sects that they did little to alter the balance of things . 
But Valentin heard a whisper that Brayne , like so many scatter brained sceptics , was drifting to us and that was quite a different thing . 
Brayne would pour supplies into the impoverished and pugnacious Church of France he would support six Nationalist newspapers like The Guillotine . 
The battle was already balanced on a point , and the fanatic took flame at the risk . 
He resolved to destroy the millionaire , and he did it as one would expect the greatest of detectives to commit his only crime . 
He abstracted the severed head of Becker on some criminological excuse , and took it home in his official box . 
Driving the unhappy Brown before them like a hostage or sacrifice , they rushed together into the sudden stillness of Valentin's study . 
The great detective sat at his desk apparently too occupied to hear their turbulent entrance . 
They paused a moment , and then something in the look of that upright and elegant back made the doctor run forward suddenly . 
you ask him why , he will probably answer that he does it to avoid being mistaken for a waiter . 
You will then retire crushed . 
But you will leave behind you a mystery as yet unsolved and a tale worth telling . 
He is perhaps a little proud of this wild and wonderful guess of his , and it is possible that he might refer to it . 
The Vernon Hotel at which The Twelve True Fishermen held their annual dinners was an institution such as can only exist in an oligarchical society which has almost gone mad on good manners . 
It was that topsy turvy product an exclusive commercial enterprise . 
That is , it was a thing which paid not by attracting people , but actually by turning people away . 
In the heart of a plutocracy tradesmen become cunning enough to be more fastidious than their customers . 
They positively create difficulties so that their wealthy and weary clients may spend money and diplomacy in overcoming them . 
If there were a fashionable hotel in London which no man could enter who was under six foot , society would meekly make up parties of six foot men to dine in it . 
If there were an expensive restaurant which by a mere caprice of its proprietor was only open on Thursday afternoon , it would be crowded on Thursday afternoon . 
The Vernon Hotel stood , as if by accident , in the corner of a square in Belgravia . 
It was a small hotel and a very inconvenient one . 
But its very inconveniences were considered as walls protecting a particular class . 
One inconvenience , in particular , was held to be of vital importance the fact that practically only twenty four people could dine in the place at once . 
The only big dinner table was the celebrated terrace table , which stood open to the air on a sort of veranda overlooking one of the most exquisite old gardens in London . 
Thus it happened that even the twenty four seats at this table could only be enjoyed in warm weather and this making the enjoyment yet more difficult made it yet more desired . 
The existing owner of the hotel was a Jew named Lever and he made nearly a million out of it , by making it difficult to get into . 
Of course he combined with this limitation in the scope of his enterprise the most careful polish in its performance . 
The wines and cooking were really as good as any in Europe , and the demeanour of the attendants exactly mirrored the fixed mood of the English upper class . 
The proprietor knew all his waiters like the fingers on his hand there were only fifteen of them all told . 
It was much easier to become a Member of Parliament than to become a waiter in that hotel . 
Each waiter was trained in terrible silence and smoothness , as if he were a gentleman's servant . 
And , indeed , there was generally at least one waiter to every gentleman who dined . 
These were always laid out for the fish course , and the fish course was always the most magnificent in that magnificent repast . 
The society had a vast number of ceremonies and observances , but it had no history and no object that was where it was so very aristocratic . 
You did not have to be anything in order to be one of the Twelve Fishers unless you were already a certain sort of person , you never even heard of them . 
It had been in existence twelve years . 
Its president was Mr. Audley . 
Its vice president was the Duke of Chester . 
As far as that is concerned , my story is simple , or even vulgar . 
Father Brown , therefore , with a meek impudence which he would have shown equally in Buckingham Palace , asked to be provided with a room and writing materials . 
Mr. Lever was torn in two . 
He was a kind man , and had also that bad imitation of kindness , the dislike of any difficulty or scene . 
At the same time the presence of one unusual stranger in his hotel that evening was like a speck of dirt on something just cleaned . 
There was never any borderland or anteroom in the Vernon Hotel , no people waiting in the hall , no customers coming in on chance . 
It would be as startling to find a new guest in the hotel that night as to find a new brother taking breakfast or tea in one's own family . 
Moreover , the priest's appearance was second rate and his clothes muddy a mere glimpse of him afar off might precipitate a crisis in the club . 
Mr. Lever at last hit on a plan to cover , since he might not obliterate , the disgrace . 
, and just beyond the office , on the way to the servants' quarters , was the gentlemen's cloak room , the last boundary of the gentlemen's domain . 
The story which Father Brown was writing down was very likely a much better story than this one , only it will never be known . 
I can merely state that it was very nearly as long , and that the last two or three paragraphs of it were the least exciting and absorbing . 
When he became conscious of the thing he found what it was only the ordinary patter of feet passing the door , which in an hotel was no very unlikely matter . 
Nevertheless , he stared at the darkened ceiling , and listened to the sound . 
After he had listened for a few seconds dreamily , he got to his feet and listened intently , with his head a little on one side . 
Then he sat down again and buried his brow in his hands , now not merely listening , but listening and thinking also . 
The footsteps outside at any given moment were such as one might hear in any hotel and yet , taken as a whole , there was something very strange about them . 
There were no other footsteps . 
One could not conceive any place where there was less reason to apprehend anything irregular . 
But these footsteps were so odd that one could not decide to call them regular or irregular . 
Father Brown followed them with his finger on the edge of the table , like a man trying to learn a tune on the piano . 
First , there came a long rush of rapid little steps , such as a light man might make in winning a walking race . 
At a certain point they stopped and changed to a sort of slow , swinging stamp , numbering not a quarter of the steps , but occupying about the same time . 
The moment the last echoing stamp had died away would come again the run or ripple of light , hurrying feet , and then again the thud of the heavier walking . 
there were no other boots about , and partly because they had a small but unmistakable creak in them . 
Father Brown had the kind of head that cannot help asking questions and on this apparently trivial question his head almost split . 
He had seen men run in order to jump . 
He had seen men run in order to slide . 
Neither suggestion seemed to make much sense . 
His brain was growing darker and darker , like his room . 
Was it a heathen religious dance ? Or some entirely new kind of scientific exercise ? Father Brown began to ask himself with more exactness what the steps suggested . 
Taking the slow step first it certainly was not the step of the proprietor . 
Men of his type walk with a rapid waddle , or they sit still . 
It could not be any servant or messenger waiting for directions . 
It did not sound like it . 
sometimes lurch about when they are slightly drunk , but generally , and especially in such gorgeous scenes , they stand or sit in constrained attitudes . 
It was a gentleman of western Europe , and probably one who had never worked for his living . 
Just as he came to this solid certainty , the step changed to the quicker one , and ran past the door as feverishly as a rat . 
The listener remarked that though this step was much swifter it was also much more noiseless , almost as if the man were walking on tiptoe . 
Yet it was not associated in his mind with secrecy , but with something else something that he could not remember . 
He was maddened by one of those half memories that make a man feel half witted . 
Surely he had heard that strange , swift walking somewhere . 
Suddenly he sprang to his feet with a new idea in his head , and walked to the door . 
His room had no direct outlet on the passage , but let on one side into the glass office , and on the other into the cloak room beyond . 
He tried the door into the office , and found it locked . 
Then he looked at the window , now a square pane full of purple cloud cleft by livid sunset , and for an instant he smelt evil as a dog smells rats . 
He remembered that the proprietor had told him that he should lock the door , and would come later to release him . 
He told himself that twenty things he had not thought of might explain the eccentric sounds outside he reminded himself that there was just enough light left to finish his own proper work . 
Bringing his paper to the window so as to catch the last stormy evening light , he resolutely plunged once more into the almost completed record . 
He had written for about twenty minutes , bending closer and closer to his paper in the lessening light then suddenly he sat upright . 
He had heard the strange feet once more . 
This time they had a third oddity . 
Previously the unknown man had walked , with levity indeed and lightning quickness , but he had walked . 
One could hear the swift , soft , bounding steps coming along the corridor , like the pads of a fleeing and leaping panther . 
Whoever was coming was a very strong , active man , in still yet tearing excitement . 
Yet , when the sound had swept up to the office like a sort of whispering whirlwind , it suddenly changed again to the old slow , swaggering stamp . 
Father Brown flung down his paper , and , knowing the office door to be locked , went at once into the cloak room on the other side . 
The attendant of this place was temporarily absent , probably because the only guests were at dinner and his office was a sinecure . 
There was a light immediately above the semicircular arch of this opening . 
It threw little illumination on Father Brown himself , who seemed a mere dark outline against the dim sunset window behind him . 
But it threw an almost theatrical light on the man who stood outside the cloak room in the corridor . 
His face , now flung back in the lamplight , was swarthy and vivacious , the face of a foreigner . 
Father Brown took the paper without a word , and obediently went to look for the coat it was not the first menial work he had done in his life . 
And he threw down half a sovereign , and caught up his coat . 
Father Brown's figure remained quite dark and still but in that instant he had lost his head . 
His head was always most valuable when he had lost it . 
In such moments he put two and two together and made four million . 
did not approve of it . 
Often he did not approve of it himself . 
But it was real inspiration important at rare crises when whosoever shall lose his head the same shall save it . 
I think , sir , he said civilly , that you have some silver in your pocket . 
The stranger looked at him curiously . 
Then he looked still more curiously up the passage towards the main entrance . 
Then he looked back at Brown again , and then he looked very carefully at the window beyond Brown's head , still coloured with the after glow of the storm . 
Then he seemed to make up his mind . 
He put one hand on the counter , vaulted over as easily as an acrobat and towered above the priest , putting one tremendous hand upon his collar . 
Stand still , he said , in a hacking whisper . 
You're a rum sort of cloak room clerk , said the other . 
I am a priest , Monsieur Flambeau , said Brown , and I am ready to hear your confession . 
The other stood gasping for a few moments , and then staggered back into a chair . 
The first two courses of the dinner of The Twelve True Fishermen had proceeded with placid success . 
I do not possess a copy of the menu and if I did it would not convey anything to anybody . 
It was written in a sort of super French employed by cooks , but quite unintelligible to Frenchmen . 
There was a tradition in the club that the hors d'oeuvres should be various and manifold to the point of madness . 
They were taken seriously because they were avowedly useless extras , like the whole dinner and the whole club . 
There was also a tradition that the soup course should be light and unpretending a sort of simple and austere vigil for the feast of fish that was to come . 
Cabinet ministers on both sides were alluded to by their Christian names with a sort of bored benignity . 
The Tory leader , whom all Liberals were supposed to hate as a tyrant , was discussed and , on the whole , praised as a Liberal . 
It seemed somehow that politicians were very important . 
And yet , anything seemed important about them except their politics . 
Mr. Audley , the chairman , was an amiable , elderly man who still wore Gladstone collars he was a kind of symbol of all that phantasmal and yet fixed society . 
He had never done anything not even anything wrong . 
He was not fast he was not even particularly rich . 
He was simply in the thing and there was an end of it . 
No party could ignore him , and if he had wished to be in the Cabinet he certainly would have been put there . 
The Duke of Chester , the vice president , was a young and rising politician . 
That is to say , he was a pleasant youth , with flat , fair hair and a freckled face , with moderate intelligence and enormous estates . 
In public his appearances were always successful and his principle was simple enough . 
When he thought of a joke he made it , and was called brilliant . 
When he could not think of a joke he said that this was no time for trifling , and was called able . 
In private , in a club of his own class , he was simply quite pleasantly frank and silly , like a schoolboy . 
Mr. Audley , never having been in politics , treated them a little more seriously . 
Sometimes he even embarrassed the company by phrases suggesting that there was some difference between a Liberal and a Conservative . 
He himself was a Conservative , even in private life . 
He had a roll of grey hair over the back of his collar , like certain old fashioned statesmen , and seen from behind he looked like the man the empire wants . 
Seen from the front he looked like a mild , self indulgent bachelor , with rooms in the Albany which he was . 
As has been remarked , there were twenty four seats at the terrace table , and only twelve members of the club . 
The chairman sat in the centre of the line , and the vice president at the right hand end of it . 
But before the first chink of knife and fork this army of retainers had vanished , only the one or two required to collect and distribute the plates darting about in deathly silence . 
Mr. Lever , the proprietor , of course had disappeared in convulsions of courtesy long before . 
It would be exaggerative , indeed irreverent , to say that he ever positively appeared again . 
So it did , for all I know . 
Nowhere , said Mr. Audley , in a deep bass voice , turning to the speaker and nodding his venerable head a number of times . 
Nowhere , assuredly , except here . 
It was represented to me that the same could be done at the Cafe Anglais . 
Nothing like it , sir , he said , shaking his head ruthlessly , like a hanging judge . 
for the first time for some months . 
Oh , I don't know , said the Duke of Chester , who was an optimist , it's jolly good for some things . 
You can't beat it at A waiter came swiftly along the room , and then stopped dead . 
They felt as you and I would feel if the inanimate world disobeyed if a chair ran away from us . 
The waiter stood staring a few seconds , while there deepened on every face at table a strange shame which is wholly the product of our time . 
It is the combination of modern humanitarianism with the horrible modern abyss between the souls of the rich and poor . 
A genuine historic aristocrat would have thrown things at the waiter , beginning with empty bottles , and very probably ending with money . 
A genuine democrat would have asked him , with comrade like clearness of speech , what the devil he was doing . 
But these modern plutocrats could not bear a poor man near to them , either as a slave or as a friend . 
That something had gone wrong with the servants was merely a dull , hot embarrassment . 
They did not want to be brutal , and they dreaded the need to be benevolent . 
They wanted the thing , whatever it was , to be over . 
The waiter , after standing for some seconds rigid , like a cataleptic , turned round and ran madly out of the room . 
When he reappeared in the room , or rather in the doorway , it was in company with another waiter , with whom he whispered and gesticulated with southern fierceness . 
Then the first waiter went away , leaving the second waiter , and reappeared with a third waiter . 
By the time a fourth waiter had joined this hurried synod , Mr. Audley felt it necessary to break the silence in the interests of Tact . 
He used a very loud cough , instead of a presidential hammer , and said Splendid work young Moocher's doing in Burmah . 
Now , no other nation in the world could have A fifth waiter had sped towards him like an arrow , and was whispering in his ear So sorry . 
Important ! Might the proprietor speak to you ? The chairman turned in disorder , and with a dazed stare saw Mr. Lever coming towards them with his lumbering quickness . 
The gait of the good proprietor was indeed his usual gait , but his face was by no means usual . 
Generally it was a genial copper brown now it was a sickly yellow . 
You will pardon me , Mr. Audley , he said , with asthmatic breathlessness . 
Your fish plates , they are cleared away with the knife and fork on them ! Well , I hope so , said the chairman , with some warmth . 
You see him ? panted the excited hotel keeper you see the waiter who took them away ? You know him ? Know the waiter ? answered Mr. Audley indignantly . 
Certainly not ! Mr. Lever opened his hands with a gesture of agony . 
I never send him , he said . 
I know not when or why he come . 
I send my waiter to take away the plates , and he find them already away . 
Are all your waiters here ? demanded the colonel , in his low , harsh accent . 
I noticed it myself , cried the young duke , pushing his boyish face into the inmost ring . 
Always count 'em as I come in they look so queer standing up against the wall . 
But surely one cannot exactly remember , began Mr. Audley , with heavy hesitation . 
I remember exactly , I tell you , cried the duke excitedly . 
There never have been more than fifteen waiters at this place , and there were no more than fifteen tonight , I'll swear no more and no less . 
The proprietor turned upon him , quaking in a kind of palsy of surprise . 
You say you say , he stammered , that you see all my fifteen waiters ? As usual , assented the duke . 
What is the matter with that ! Nothing , said Lever , with a deepening accent , only you did not . 
For one of zem is dead upstairs . 
There was a shocking stillness for an instant in that room . 
that each of those idle men looked for a second at his soul , and saw it as a small dried pea . 
Then , as to the clang of doom , they awoke to their own position . 
For a few weird seconds they had really felt as if the fifteenth waiter might be the ghost of the dead man upstairs . 
They had been dumb under that oppression , for ghosts were to them an embarrassment , like beggars . 
But the remembrance of the silver broke the spell of the miraculous broke it abruptly and with a brutal reaction . 
The colonel flung over his chair and strode to the door . 
If there was a fifteenth man here , friends , he said , that fifteenth fellow was a thief . 
Down at once to the front and back doors and secure everything then we'll talk . 
The twenty four pearls of the club are worth recovering . 
At the same instant a sixth waiter ran into the room , and declared that he had found the pile of fish plates on a sideboard , with no trace of the silver . 
The crowd of diners and attendants that tumbled helter skelter down the passages divided into two groups . 
Most of the Fishermen followed the proprietor to the front room to demand news of any exit . 
Colonel Pound , with the chairman , the vice president , and one or two others darted down the corridor leading to the servants' quarters , as the more likely line of escape . 
Hallo , there ! called out the duke . 
Have you seen anyone pass ? The short figure did not answer the question directly , but merely said Perhaps I have got what you are looking for , gentlemen . 
It took the form of a dozen quaintly shaped forks and knives . 
You you began the colonel , quite thrown off his balance at last . 
Valuable things to deposit in a cloak room , aren't they ? remarked the clergyman , with cheerful composure . 
Did did you steal those things ? stammered Mr. Audley , with staring eyes . 
If I did , said the cleric pleasantly , at least I am bringing them back again . 
But you didn't , said Colonel Pound , still staring at the broken window . 
To make a clean breast of it , I didn't , said the other , with some humour . 
And he seated himself quite gravely on a stool . 
But you know who did , said the , colonel . 
I don't know his real name , said the priest placidly , but I know something of his fighting weight , and a great deal about his spiritual difficulties . 
I formed the physical estimate when he was trying to throttle me , and the moral estimate when he repented . 
Oh , I say repented ! cried young Chester , with a sort of crow of laughter . 
Father Brown got to his feet , putting his hands behind him . 
If you doubt the penitence as a practical fact , there are your knives and forks . 
You are The Twelve True Fishers , and there are all your silver fish . 
But He has made me a fisher of men . 
Did you catch this man ? asked the colonel , frowning . 
Father Brown looked him full in his frowning face . 
There was a long silence . 
All the other men present drifted away to carry the recovered silver to their comrades , or to consult the proprietor about the queer condition of affairs . 
But the grim faced colonel still sat sideways on the counter , swinging his long , lank legs and biting his dark moustache . 
At last he said quietly to the priest He must have been a clever fellow , but I think I know a cleverer . 
He was a clever fellow , answered the other , but I am not quite sure of what other you mean . 
I mean you , said the colonel , with a short laugh . 
I don't want to get the fellow jailed make yourself easy about that . 
But I'd give a good many silver forks to know exactly how you fell into this affair , and how you got the stuff out of him . 
I reckon you're the most up to date devil of the present company . 
Father Brown seemed rather to like the saturnine candour of the soldier . 
He hopped over the barrier with unexpected activity , and sat beside Colonel Pound , kicking his short legs like a little boy on a gate . 
He began to tell the story as easily as if he were telling it to an old friend by a Christmas fire . 
But they were both made by the same feet , I swear , and they came in rotation first the run and then the walk , and then the run again . 
I wondered at first idly and then wildly why a man should act these two parts at once . 
One walk I knew it was just like yours , colonel . 
It was the walk of a well fed gentleman waiting for something , who strolls about rather because he is physically alert than because he is mentally impatient . 
I knew that I knew the other walk , too , but I could not remember what it was . 
Then I thought for a minute and a half more . 
And I believe I saw the manner of the crime , as clearly as if I were going to commit it . 
Colonel Pound looked at him keenly , but the speaker's mild grey eyes were fixed upon the ceiling with almost empty wistfulness . 
A crime , he said slowly , is like any other work of art . 
Don't look surprised crimes are by no means the only works of art that come from an infernal workshop . 
But every work of art , divine or diabolic , has one indispensable mark I mean , that the centre of it is simple , however much the fulfilment may be complicated . 
Well , this also , he said , getting slowly down from his seat with a smile , this also is the plain tragedy of a man in black . 
Yes , he went on , seeing the colonel look up in some wonder , the whole of this tale turns on a black coat . 
In this , as in Hamlet , there are the rococo excrescences yourselves , let us say . 
There is the dead waiter , who was there when he could not be there . 
There is the invisible hand that swept your table clear of silver and melted into air . 
But every clever crime is founded ultimately on some one quite simple fact some fact that is not itself mysterious . 
The mystification comes in covering it up , in leading men's thoughts away from it . 
most profitable crime , was built on the plain fact that a gentleman's evening dress is the same as a waiter's . 
All the rest was acting , and thundering good acting , too . 
Still , said the colonel , getting up and frowning at his boots , I am not sure that I understand . 
He did not go and hide in dim corners where suspicion might have searched for him . 
He kept constantly on the move in the lighted corridors , and everywhere that he went he seemed to be there by right . 
Don't ask me what he was like you have seen him yourself six or seven times tonight . 
You were waiting with all the other grand people in the reception room at the end of the passage there , with the terrace just beyond . 
Whenever he came among you gentlemen , he came in the lightning style of a waiter , with bent head , flapping napkin and flying feet . 
He shot out on to the terrace , did something to the table cloth , and shot back again towards the office and the waiters' quarters . 
By the time he had come under the eye of the office clerk and the waiters he had become another man in every inch of his body , in every instinctive gesture . 
He strolled among the servants with the absent minded insolence which they have all seen in their patrons . 
Why should the gentlemen look at a chance waiter ? Why should the waiters suspect a first rate walking gentleman ? Once or twice he played the coolest tricks . 
In the proprietor's private quarters he called out breezily for a syphon of soda water , saying he was thirsty . 
He said genially that he would carry it himself , and he did he carried it quickly and correctly through the thick of you , a waiter with an obvious errand . 
Of course , it could not have been kept up long , but it only had to be kept up till the end of the fish course . 
The rest went like winking . 
If any waiter caught him away from the table , that waiter caught a languid aristocrat . 
He had only to time himself two minutes before the fish was cleared , become a swift servant , and clear it himself . 
till he came to the cloak room . 
There he had only to be a plutocrat again a plutocrat called away suddenly on business . 
He had only to give his ticket to the cloak room attendant , and go out again elegantly as he had come in . 
Only only I happened to be the cloak room attendant . 
What did you do to him ? cried the colonel , with unusual intensity . 
What did he tell you ? I beg your pardon , said the priest immovably , that is where the story ends . 
And the interesting story begins , muttered Pound . 
I think I understand his professional trick . 
But I don't seem to have got hold of yours . 
I must be going , said Father Brown . 
They walked together along the passage to the entrance hall , where they saw the fresh , freckled face of the Duke of Chester , who was bounding buoyantly along towards them . 
Come along , Pound , he cried breathlessly . 
I've been looking for you everywhere . 
The dinner's going again in spanking style , and old Audley has got to make a speech in honour of the forks being saved . 
We want to start some new ceremony , don't you know , to commemorate the occasion . 
One never knows what mistakes may arise when one looks so like a waiter . 
Oh , hang it all ! said the young man , a gentleman never looks like a waiter . 
Nor a waiter like a gentleman , I suppose , said Colonel Pound , with the same lowering laughter on his face . 
Reverend sir , your friend must have been very smart to act the gentleman . 
Father Brown buttoned up his commonplace overcoat to the neck , for the night was stormy , and took his commonplace umbrella from the stand . 
And saying Good evening , he pushed open the heavy doors of that palace of pleasures . 
The golden gates closed behind him , and he went at a brisk walk through the damp , dark streets in search of a penny omnibus . 
The Flying Stars The most beautiful crime I ever committed , Flambeau would say in his highly moral old age , was also , by a singular coincidence , my last . 
It was committed at Christmas . 
, I wished to frame him , if I make myself clear , in the green lawns and grey towers of some cathedral town . 
, it gratified me to get his indignant head relieved against a grey line of clipped poplars , and those solemn plains of Gaul over which broods the mighty spirit of Millet . 
Well , my last crime was a Christmas crime , a cheery , cosy , English middle class crime a crime of Charles Dickens . 
Enough , you know the species . 
I really think my imitation of Dickens's style was dexterous and literary . 
It seems almost a pity I repented the same evening . 
Flambeau would then proceed to tell the story from the inside and even from the inside it was odd . 
Seen from the outside it was perfectly incomprehensible , and it is from the outside that the stranger must study it . 
But for the attractive face she might have been a small toddling bear . 
On one side of the house stood the stable , on the other an alley or cloister of laurels led to the larger garden behind . 
, passed unobutrusively down the lane of laurels and into a glimmering plantation of evergreens behind . 
Here she gave an exclamation of wonder , real or ritual , and looking up at the high garden wall above her , beheld it fantastically bestridden by a somewhat fantastic figure . 
Oh , don't jump , Mr. Crook , she called out in some alarm it's much too high . 
This showed the more plainly because he wore an aggressive red tie , the only part of his costume of which he seemed to take any care . 
Perhaps it was a symbol . 
He took no notice of the girl's alarmed adjuration , but leapt like a grasshopper to the ground beside her , where he might very well have broken his legs . 
I can't see any harm in it , anyhow . 
How can you say such things ! she remonstrated . 
Well , said the young man , if you're born on the wrong side of the wall , I can't see that it's wrong to climb over it . 
I never know what you will say or do next , she said . 
I don't often know myself , replied Mr. Crook but then I am on the right side of the wall now . 
And which is the right side of the wall ? asked the young lady , smiling . 
Whichever side you are on , said the young man named Crook . 
Hullo , hullo ! said the young man with the red tie , here's somebody born on the right side , anyhow . 
I didn't know , Miss Adams , that your Santa Claus was so modern as this . 
Oh , that's my godfather , Sir Leopold Fischer . 
He always comes on Boxing Day . 
Then , after an innocent pause , which unconsciously betrayed some lack of enthusiasm , Ruby Adams added He is very kind . 
But he said nothing and grimly watched the unloading of the motor car , which was rather a long process . 
had come out himself to invite his eminent guest inside . 
With him was his brother in law , lately come from Canada , a big and rather boisterous young gentleman farmer , with a yellow beard , by name James Blount . 
In the large entrance hall of the house there was ample room even for Sir Leopold and the removal of his wraps . 
In front of the large hall fire , over which hung the colonel's sword , the process was completed and the company , including the saturnine Crook , presented to Sir Leopold Fischer . 
With an unaffected vain glory that had something disarming about it he held out the case before them all it flew open at a touch and half blinded them . 
It was just as if a crystal fountain had spurted in their eyes . 
In a nest of orange velvet lay like three eggs , three white and vivid diamonds that seemed to set the very air on fire all round them . 
Fischer stood beaming benevolently and drinking deep of the astonishment and ecstasy of the girl , the grim admiration and gruff thanks of the colonel , the wonder of the whole group . 
I'll put 'em back now , my dear , said Fischer , returning the case to the tails of his coat . 
I had to be careful of 'em coming down . 
They're the three great African diamonds called The Flying Stars , because they've been stolen so often . 
All the big criminals are on the track but even the rough men about in the streets and hotels could hardly have kept their hands off them . 
I might have lost them on the road here . 
Quite natural , I should say , growled the man in the red tie . 
I shouldn't blame 'em if they had taken 'em . 
When they ask for bread , and you don't even give them a stone , I think they might take the stone for themselves . 
I won't have you talking like that , cried the girl , who was in a curious glow . 
You've only talked like that since you became a horrid what's his name . 
You know what I mean . 
What do you call a man who wants to embrace the chimney sweep ? A saint , said Father Brown . 
I think , said Sir Leopold , with a supercilious smile , that Ruby means a Socialist . 
A radical does not mean a man who lives on radishes , remarked Crook , with some impatience and a Conservative does not mean a man who preserves jam . 
Neither , I assure you , does a Socialist mean a man who desires a social evening with the chimney sweep . 
A Socialist means a man who wants all the chimneys swept and all the chimney sweeps paid for it . 
But who won't allow you , put in the priest in a low voice , to own your own soot . 
Crook looked at him with an eye of interest and even respect . 
Does one want to own soot ? he asked . 
One might , answered Brown , with speculation in his eye . 
I've heard that gardeners use it . 
And I once made six children happy at Christmas when the conjuror didn't come , entirely with soot applied externally . 
Oh , splendid , cried Ruby . 
Oh , I wish you'd do it to this company . 
, when a knock sounded at the double front doors . 
The priest opened them , and they showed again the front garden of evergreens , monkey tree and all , now gathering gloom against a gorgeous violet sunset . 
The scene thus framed was so coloured and quaint , like a back scene in a play , that they forgot a moment the insignificant figure standing in the door . 
He was dusty looking and in a frayed coat , evidently a common messenger . 
Any of you gentlemen Mr. Blount ? he asked , and held forward a letter doubtfully . 
Mr. Blount started , and stopped in his shout of assent . 
Ripping up the envelope with evident astonishment he read it his face clouded a little , and then cleared , and he turned to his brother in law and host . 
, and he seems to have business for me , though I hardly guess what . 
Of course , of course , replied the colonel carelessly My dear chap , any friend of yours . 
No doubt he will prove an acquisition . 
He'll black his face , if that's what you mean , cried Blount , laughing . 
I don't doubt he'd black everyone else's eyes . 
I don't care I'm not refined . 
I like the jolly old pantomime where a man sits on his top hat . 
Not on mine , please , said Sir Leopold Fischer , with dignity . 
Well , well , observed Crook , airily , don't let's quarrel . 
There are lower jokes than sitting on a top hat . 
What is it , pray ? Letting a top hat sit on you , for instance , said the Socialist . 
Now , now , now , cried the Canadian farmer with his barbarian benevolence , don't let's spoil a jolly evening . 
What I say is , let's do something for the company tonight . 
Not blacking faces or sitting on hats , if you don't like those but something of the sort . 
Why couldn't we have a proper old English pantomime clown , columbine , and so on . 
I saw one when I left England at twelve years old , and it's blazed in my brain like a bonfire ever since . 
I came back to the old country only last year , and I find the thing's extinct . 
Nothing but a lot of snivelling fairy plays . 
I want a hot poker and a policeman made into sausages , and they give me princesses moralising by moonlight , Blue Birds , or something . 
Blue Beard's more in my line , and him I like best when he turned into the pantaloon . 
I'm all for making a policeman into sausages , said John Crook . 
It's a better definition of Socialism than some recently given . 
But surely the get up would be too big a business . 
Not a scrap , cried Blount , quite carried away . 
A harlequinade's the quickest thing we can do , for two reasons . 
First , one can gag to any degree and , second , all the objects are household things tables and towel horses and washing baskets , and things like that . 
That's true , admitted Crook , nodding eagerly and walking about . 
But I'm afraid I can't have my policeman's uniform ? Haven't killed a policeman lately . 
Blount frowned thoughtfully a space , and then smote his thigh . 
Yes , we can ! he cried . 
I've got Florian's address here , and he knows every costumier in London . 
I'll phone him to bring a police dress when he comes . 
And he went bounding away to the telephone . 
Oh , it's glorious , godfather , cried Ruby , almost dancing . 
I'll be columbine and you shall be pantaloon . 
The millionaire held himself stiff with a sort of heathen solemnity . 
I think , my dear , he said , you must get someone else for pantaloon . 
I will be pantaloon , if you like , said Colonel Adams , taking his cigar out of his mouth , and speaking for the first and last time . 
You ought to have a statue , cried the Canadian , as he came back , radiant , from the telephone . 
There , we are all fitted . 
Mr. Crook shall be clown he's a journalist and knows all the oldest jokes . 
I can be harlequin , that only wants long legs and jumping about . 
My friend Florian 'phones he's bringing the police costume he's changing on the way . 
We can act it in this very hall , the audience sitting on those broad stairs opposite , one row above another . 
These front doors can be the back scene , either open or shut . 
Shut , you see an English interior . 
Open , a moonlit garden . 
It all goes by magic . 
How even such a banquet of bosh was got ready in the time remained a riddle . 
As always happens , the invention grew wilder and wilder through the very tameness of the bourgeois conventions from which it had to create . 
The columbine looked charming in an outstanding skirt that strangely resembled the large lamp shade in the drawing room . 
In fact he would certainly have done so , had not Ruby unearthed some old pantomime paste jewels she had worn at a fancy dress party as the Queen of Diamonds . 
Indeed , her uncle , James Blount , was getting almost out of hand in his excitement he was like a schoolboy . 
He put a paper donkey's head unexpectedly on Father Brown , who bore it patiently , and even found some private manner of moving his ears . 
He even essayed to put the paper donkey's tail to the coat tails of Sir Leopold Fischer . 
This , however , was frowned down . 
Uncle is too absurd , cried Ruby to Crook , round whose shoulders she had seriously placed a string of sausages . 
Why is he so wild ? He is harlequin to your columbine , said Crook . 
I am only the clown who makes the old jokes . 
I wish you were the harlequin , she said , and left the string of sausages swinging . 
The pantomime was utterly chaotic , yet not contemptible there ran through it a rage of improvisation which came chiefly from Crook the clown . 
, the prompter , the scene painter , the scene shifter , and , above all , the orchestra . 
At abrupt intervals in the outrageous performance he would hurl himself in full costume at the piano and bang out some popular music equally absurd and appropriate . 
Then the harlequin rushed right into the arms of the policeman and fell on top of him , amid a roar of applause . 
Then it was that the strange actor gave that celebrated imitation of a dead man , of which the fame still lingers round Putney . 
It was almost impossible to believe that a living person could appear so limp . 
The athletic harlequin swung him about like a sack or twisted or tossed him like an Indian club all the time to the most maddeningly ludicrous tunes from the piano . 
When the harlequin heaved the comic constable heavily off the floor the clown played I arise from dreams of thee . 
Then he sat down nervously , still fumbling , and then stood up again . 
The priest had only watched for a few more minutes the absurd but not inelegant dance of the amateur harlequin over his splendidly unconscious foe . 
With real though rude art , the harlequin danced slowly backwards out of the door into the garden , which was full of moonlight and stillness . 
The vamped dress of silver paper and paste , which had been too glaring in the footlights , looked more and more magical and silvery as it danced away under a brilliant moon . 
The audience was closing in with a cataract of applause , when Brown felt his arm abruptly touched , and he was asked in a whisper to come into the colonel's study . 
He followed his summoner with increasing doubt , which was not dispelled by a solemn comicality in the scene of the study . 
Sir Leopold Fischer was leaning against the mantelpiece and heaving with all the importance of panic . 
This is a very painful matter , Father Brown , said Adams . 
The truth is , those diamonds we all saw this afternoon seem to have vanished from my friend's tail coat pocket . 
I only ask you to give me the assistance that any gentleman might give . 
The colonel looked at him long , and then said , Do you know , I should like to see the inside of your head more than the inside of your pockets . 
My daughter is one of your people , I know well , she has lately and he stopped . 
She has lately , cried out old Fischer , opened her father's house to a cut throat Socialist , who says openly he would steal anything from a richer man . 
This is the end of it . 
Here is the richer man and none the richer . 
If you want the inside of my head you can have it , said Brown rather wearily . 
What it's worth you can say afterwards . 
But the first thing I find in that disused pocket is this that men who mean to steal diamonds don't talk Socialism . 
They are more likely , he added demurely , to denounce it . 
Both the others shifted sharply and the priest went on You see , we know these people , more or less . 
That Socialist would no more steal a diamond than a Pyramid . 
We ought to look at once to the one man we don't know . 
The fellow acting the policeman Florian . 
Where is he exactly at this minute , I wonder . 
The pantaloon sprang erect and strode out of the room . 
The curtain has gone up and down six times he is still lying there . 
Father Brown dropped his book and stood staring with a look of blank mental ruin . 
Very slowly a light began to creep in his grey eyes , and then he made the scarcely obvious answer . 
Please forgive me , colonel , but when did your wife die ? Wife ! replied the staring soldier , she died this year two months . 
Her brother James arrived just a week too late to see her . 
The little priest bounded like a rabbit shot . 
Come on ! he cried in quite unusual excitement . 
, and Father Brown bent over the prostrate comic policeman . 
Chloroform , he said as he rose I only guessed it just now . 
There was a startled stillness , and then the colonel said slowly , Please say seriously what all this means . 
Father Brown suddenly shouted with laughter , then stopped , and only struggled with it for instants during the rest of his speech . 
Gentlemen , he gasped , there's not much time to talk . 
I must run after the criminal . 
He was ? called Fischer inquiringly . 
A real policeman , said Father Brown , and ran away into the dark . 
He sparkles from head to heel , as if clad in ten million moons the real moon catches him at every movement and sets a new inch of him on fire . 
Well , Flambeau , says the voice , you really look like a Flying Star but that always means a Falling Star at last . 
The silver , sparkling figure above seems to lean forward in the laurels and , confident of escape , listens to the little figure below . 
You never did anything better , Flambeau . 
just a week after Mrs. Adams died , when no one was in a mood to ask questions . 
It was cleverer to have marked down the Flying Stars and the very day of Fischer's coming . 
But there's no cleverness , but mere genius , in what followed . 
Stealing the stones , I suppose , was nothing to you . 
You could have done it by sleight of hand in a hundred other ways besides that pretence of putting a paper donkey's tail to Fischer's coat . 
But in the rest you eclipsed yourself . 
The silvery figure among the green leaves seems to linger as if hypnotised , though his escape is easy behind him he is staring at the man below . 
Oh , yes , says the man below , I know all about it . 
I know you not only forced the pantomime , but put it to a double use . 
You were going to steal the stones quietly news came by an accomplice that you were already suspected , and a capable police officer was coming to rout you up that very night . 
A common thief would have been thankful for the warning and fled but you are a poet . 
You already had the clever notion of hiding the jewels in a blaze of false stage jewellery . 
Now , you saw that if the dress were a harlequin's the appearance of a policeman would be quite in keeping . 
The worthy officer started from Putney police station to find you , and walked into the queerest trap ever set in this world . 
Oh , you will never do anything better . 
And now , by the way , you might give me back those diamonds . 
There is still youth and honour and humour in you don't fancy they will last in that trade . 
Men may keep a sort of level of good , but no man has ever been able to keep on one level of evil . 
That road goes down and down . 
The kind man drinks and turns cruel the frank man kills and lies about it . 
Many a man I've known started like you to be an honest outlaw , a merry robber of the rich , and ended stamped into slime . 
Maurice Blum started out as an anarchist of principle , a father of the poor he ended a greasy spy and tale bearer that both sides used and despised . 
Harry Burke started his free money movement sincerely enough now he's sponging on a half starved sister for endless brandies and sodas . 
Lord Amber went into wild society in a sort of chivalry now he's paying blackmail to the lowest vultures in London . 
Captain Barillon was the great gentleman apache before your time he died in a madhouse , screaming with fear of the narks and receivers that had betrayed him and hunted him down . 
I know the woods look very free behind you , Flambeau I know that in a flash you could melt into them like a monkey . 
But some day you will be an old grey monkey , Flambeau . 
You will sit up in your free forest cold at heart and close to death , and the tree tops will be very bare . 
Everything continued still , as if the small man below held the other in the tree in some long invisible leash and he went on Your downward steps have begun . 
You used to boast of doing nothing mean , but you are doing something mean tonight . 
You are leaving suspicion on an honest boy with a good deal against him already you are separating him from the woman he loves and who loves him . 
But you will do meaner things than that before you die . 
Three flashing diamonds fell from the tree to the turf . 
The small man stooped to pick them up , and when he looked up again the green cage of the tree was emptied of its silver bird . 
The Invisible Man In the cool blue twilight of two steep streets in Camden Town , the shop at the corner , a confectioner's , glowed like the butt of a cigar . 
Such rainbow provocations could naturally collect the youth of the neighbourhood up to the ages of ten or twelve . 
But this corner was also attractive to youth at a later stage and a young man , not less than twenty four , was staring into the same shop window . 
To him , also , the shop was of fiery charm , but this attraction was not wholly to be explained by chocolates which , however , he was far from despising . 
He was a tall , burly , red haired young man , with a resolute face but a listless manner . 
had disinherited him for Socialism , because of a lecture which he had delivered against that economic theory . 
His name was John Turnbull Angus . 
His order was evidently a usual one . 
I want , please , he said with precision , one halfpenny bun and a small cup of black coffee . 
An instant before the girl could turn away he added , Also , I want you to marry me . 
The young lady of the shop stiffened suddenly and said , Those are jokes I don't allow . 
The red haired young man lifted grey eyes of an unexpected gravity . 
Really and truly , he said , it's as serious as serious as the halfpenny bun . 
It is expensive , like the bun one pays for it . 
It is indigestible , like the bun . 
The dark young lady had never taken her dark eyes off him , but seemed to be studying him with almost tragic exactitude . 
At the end of her scrutiny she had something like the shadow of a smile , and she sat down in a chair . 
Don't you think , observed Angus , absently , that it's rather cruel to eat these halfpenny buns ? They might grow up into penny buns . 
I shall give up these brutal sports when we are married . 
The dark young lady rose from her chair and walked to the window , evidently in a state of strong but not unsympathetic cogitation . 
They included a pyramid of highly coloured sweets , several plates of sandwiches , and the two decanters containing that mysterious port and sherry which are peculiar to pastry cooks . 
In the middle of this neat arrangement he had carefully let down the enormous load of white sugared cake which had been the huge ornament of the window . 
What on earth are you doing ? she asked . 
Duty , my dear Laura , he began . 
Oh , for the Lord's sake , stop a minute , she cried , and don't talk to me in that way . 
I mean , what is all that ? A ceremonial meal , Miss Hope . 
And what is that ? she asked impatiently , pointing to the mountain of sugar . 
The wedding cake , Mrs. Angus , he said . 
You don't give me any time to think , she said . 
I'm not such a fool , he answered that's my Christian humility . 
She was still looking at him but she had grown considerably graver behind the smile . 
Mr. Angus , she said steadily , before there is a minute more of this nonsense I must tell you something about myself as shortly as I can . 
Delighted , replied Angus gravely . 
You might tell me something about myself , too , while you are about it . 
Oh , do hold your tongue and listen , she said . 
It's nothing that I'm ashamed of , and it isn't even anything that I'm specially sorry about . 
Well , you must listen to the story first , said Laura , persistently . 
To begin with , I must tell you that my father owned the inn called the Red Fish' at Ludbury , and I used to serve people in the bar . 
I have often wondered , he said , why there was a kind of a Christian air about this one confectioner's shop . 
Even these wretched young rotters were not very common at our house but there were two of them that were a lot too common common in every sort of way . 
They both lived on money of their own , and were wearisomely idle and over dressed . 
It wasn't exactly a deformity either it was more an oddity . 
One of them was a surprisingly small man , something like a dwarf , or at least like a jockey . 
His name was Isidore Smythe and I can see him still , with his little dark face , just coming up to the counter , making a jumping kangaroo out of five cigars . 
The other fellow was more silent and more ordinary but somehow he alarmed me much more than poor little Smythe . 
When he looked straight at you , you didn't know where you were yourself , let alone what he was looking at . 
never did anything except soak in our bar parlour , and go for great walks by himself in the flat , grey country all round . 
All the same , I think Smythe , too , was a little sensitive about being so small , though he carried it off more smartly . 
And so it was that I was really puzzled , as well as startled , and very sorry , when they both offered to marry me in the same week . 
Well , I did what I've since thought was perhaps a silly thing . 
So I made up some gas of another sort , about never meaning to marry anyone who hadn't carved his way in the world . 
I said it was a point of principle with me not to live on money that was just inherited like theirs . 
Two days after I had talked in this well meaning sort of way , the whole trouble began . 
The first thing I heard was that both of them had gone off to seek their fortunes , as if they were in some silly fairy tale . 
Well , I've never seen either of them from that day to this . 
But I've had two letters from the little man called Smythe , and really they were rather exciting . 
Ever heard of the other man ? asked Angus . 
No , he never wrote , said the girl , after an instant's hesitation . 
That was his first letter . 
His second was much more of a startler , and I only got it last week . 
The man called Angus emptied his coffee cup and regarded her with mild and patient eyes . 
Oh , I don't know much about it , it's some clockwork invention for doing all the housework by machinery . 
You know the sort of thing Press a Button A Butler who Never Drinks . 
Turn a Handle Ten Housemaids who Never Flirt . 
You must have seen the advertisements . 
Well , whatever these machines are , they are making pots of money and they are making it all for that little imp whom I knew down in Ludbury . 
And the other man ? repeated Angus with a sort of obstinate quietude . 
Laura Hope got to her feet suddenly . 
My friend , she said , I think you are a witch . 
Yes , you are quite right . 
I have not seen a line of the other man's writing and I have no more notion than the dead of what or where he is . 
But it is of him that I am frightened . 
It is he who is all about my path . 
It is he who has half driven me mad . 
Indeed , I think he has driven me mad for I have felt him where he could not have been , and I have heard his voice when he could not have spoken . 
Well , my dear , said the young man , cheerfully , if he were Satan himself , he is done for now you have told somebody . 
One goes mad all alone , old girl . 
But when was it you fancied you felt and heard our squinting friend ? I heard James Welkin laugh as plainly as I hear you speak , said the girl , steadily . 
There was nobody there , for I stood just outside the shop at the corner , and could see down both streets at once . 
I had forgotten how he laughed , though his laugh was as odd as his squint . 
I had not thought of him for nearly a year . 
But it's a solemn truth that a few seconds later the first letter came from his rival . 
Did you ever make the spectre speak or squeak , or anything ? asked Angus , with some interest . 
Laura suddenly shuddered , and then said , with an unshaken voice , Yes . 
Just when I had finished reading the second letter from Isidore Smythe announcing his success . 
Just then , I heard Welkin say , He shan't have you , though . 
It was quite plain , as if he were in the room . 
It is awful , I think I must be mad . 
If you really were mad , said the young man , you would think you must be sane . 
But certainly there seems to me to be something a little rum about this unseen gentleman . 
In the same flash of time a small man in a shiny top hat stood stamping in the outer room . 
Angus , who had hitherto maintained hilarious ease from motives of mental hygiene , revealed the strain of his soul by striding abruptly out of the inner room and confronting the new comer . 
A glance at him was quite sufficient to confirm the savage guesswork of a man in love . 
For a moment the two men , instinctively understanding each other's air of possession , looked at each other with that curious cold generosity which is the soul of rivalry . 
There's no time to explain other things , said the small millionaire shortly . 
There's some tomfoolery going on here that has to be investigated . 
Laura , said Angus , putting his big red head into the shop , you're not mad . 
It's the writing of that fellow Welkin , said Smythe gruffly . 
I haven't seen him for years , but he's always bothering me . 
Five times in the last fortnight he's had threatening letters left at my flat , and I can't even find out who leaves them , let alone if it is Welkin himself . 
Well , sir , I can assure you I appreciate your common sense in dealing so directly with the matter . 
We can talk about other things afterwards . 
The fellow cannot be very far off yet , for I swear there was no paper there when I went last to the window , ten or fifteen minutes ago . 
On the other hand , he's too far off to be chased , as we don't even know the direction . 
If you'll take my advice , Mr. Smythe , you'll put this at once in the hands of some energetic inquiry man , private rather than public . 
I know an extremely clever fellow , who has set up in business five minutes from here in your car . 
His name's Flambeau , and though his youth was a bit stormy , he's a strictly honest man now , and his brains are worth money . 
He lives in Lucknow Mansions , Hampstead . 
That is odd , said the little man , arching his black eyebrows . 
I live , myself , in Himylaya Mansions , round the corner . 
Perhaps you might care to come with me I can go to my rooms and sort out these queer Welkin documents , while you run round and get your friend the detective . 
You are very good , said Angus politely . 
Well , the sooner we act the better . 
Both men , with a queer kind of impromptu fairness , took the same sort of formal farewell of the lady , and both jumped into the brisk little car . 
I use them in my own flat , said the little black bearded man , laughing , partly for advertisements , and partly for real convenience . 
But I'll never deny , between ourselves , that such servants have their disadvantages , too . 
Indeed ? said Angus is there something they can't do ? Yes , replied Smythe coolly they can't tell me who left those threatening letters at my flat . 
The man's motor was small and swift like himself in fact , like his domestic service , it was of his own invention . 
If he was an advertising quack , he was one who believed in his own wares . 
The sense of something tiny and flying was accentuated as they swept up long white curves of road in the dead but open daylight of evening . 
Soon the white curves came sharper and dizzier they were upon ascending spirals , as they say in the modern religions . 
For , indeed , they were cresting a corner of London which is almost as precipitous as Edinburgh , if not quite so picturesque . 
Terrace rose above terrace , and the special tower of flats they sought , rose above them all to almost Egyptian height , gilt by the level sunset . 
These were the only human shapes in that high suburban solitude but he had an irrational sense that they expressed the speechless poetry of London . 
He felt as if they were figures in a story . 
The little car shot up to the right house like a bullet , and shot out its owner like a bomb shell . 
He was immediately inquiring of a tall commissionaire in shining braid , and a short porter in shirt sleeves , whether anybody or anything had been seeking his apartments . 
Just come in for a minute , said the breathless Smythe . 
I want to show you those Welkin letters . 
Then you might run round the corner and fetch your friend . 
He pressed a button concealed in the wall , and the door opened of itself . 
On this occasion , at least , nobody did . 
For between the two rows of these domestic dummies lay something more interesting than most of the mechanics of the world . 
It was a white , tattered scrap of paper scrawled with red ink and the agile inventor had snatched it up almost as soon as the door flew open . 
He handed it to Angus without a word . 
The red ink on it actually was not dry , and the message ran , If you have been to see her today , I shall kill you . 
There was a short silence , and then Isidore Smythe said quietly , Would you like a little whiskey ? I rather feel as if I should . 
Thank you I should like a little Flambeau , said Angus , gloomily . 
This business seems to me to be getting rather grave . 
I'm going round at once to fetch him . 
Right you are , said the other , with admirable cheerfulness . 
Bring him round here as quick as you can . 
There did seem something a trifle weird about leaving the little man alone among those dead servants , who were coming to life as the door closed . 
Six steps down from Smythe's landing the man in shirt sleeves was doing something with a pail . 
The chestnut seller , turning up the collar of his coat , told him he should probably be moving shortly , as he thought it was going to snow . 
Indeed , the evening was growing grey and bitter , but Angus , with all his eloquence , proceeded to nail the chestnut man to his post . 
Keep yourself warm on your own chestnuts , he said earnestly . 
Eat up your whole stock I'll make it worth your while . 
He then walked away smartly , with a last look at the besieged tower . 
I've made a ring round that room , anyhow , he said . 
They can't all four of them be Mr. Welkin's accomplices . 
Lucknow Mansions were , so to speak , on a lower platform of that hill of houses , of which Himylaya Mansions might be called the peak . 
This is my friend Father Brown , said Flambeau . 
I've often wanted you to meet him . 
Splendid weather , this a little cold for Southerners like me . 
Yes , I think it will keep clear , said Angus , sitting down on a violet striped Eastern ottoman . 
No , said the priest quietly , it has begun to snow . 
And , indeed , as he spoke , the first few flakes , foreseen by the man of chestnuts , began to drift across the darkening windowpane . 
Well , said Angus heavily . 
I'm afraid I've come on business , and rather jumpy business at that . 
When it came to the scribbled stamp paper pasted on the window , Flambeau rose , seeming to fill the room with his huge shoulders . 
If you don't mind , he said , I think you had better tell me the rest on the nearest road to this man's house . 
It strikes me , somehow , that there is no time to be lost . 
Delighted , said Angus , rising also , though he's safe enough for the present , for I've set four men to watch the only hole to his burrow . 
They turned out into the street , the small priest trundling after them with the docility of a small dog . 
He merely said , in a cheerful way , like one making conversation , How quick the snow gets thick on the ground . 
The chestnut seller , both before and after receiving a sovereign , swore stubbornly that he had watched the door and seen no visitor enter . 
The policeman was even more emphatic . 
And when all three men gathered round the gilded commissionaire , who still stood smiling astride of the porch , the verdict was more final still . 
Nobody's been in here , sir , you can take it from me , said the official , with beaming authority . 
Then I wonder what that is ? said the priest , and stared at the ground blankly like a fish . 
The others all looked down also and Flambeau used a fierce exclamation and a French gesture . 
The green and red of their coats were all darkened in the dusk and their likeness to human shapes slightly increased by their very shapelessness . 
But in the middle of them all , exactly where the paper with the red ink had lain , there lay something that looked like red ink spilt out of its bottle . 
But it was not red ink . 
With a French combination of reason and violence Flambeau simply said Murder ! and , plunging into the flat , had explored , every corner and cupboard of it in five minutes . 
But if he expected to find a corpse he found none . 
Isidore Smythe was not in the place , either dead or alive . 
After the most tearing search the two men met each other in the outer hall , with streaming faces and staring eyes . 
My friend , said Flambeau , talking French in his excitement , not only is your murderer invisible , but he makes invisible also the murdered man . 
Angus looked round at the dim room full of dummies , and in some Celtic corner of his Scotch soul a shudder started . 
One of the life size dolls stood immediately overshadowing the blood stain , summoned , perhaps , by the slain man an instant before he fell . 
Matter had rebelled , and these machines had killed their master . 
He recovered his mental health by an emphatic effort , and said to Flambeau , Well , there it is . 
The poor fellow has evaporated like a cloud and left a red streak on the floor . 
The tale does not belong to this world . 
There is only one thing to be done , said Flambeau , whether it belongs to this world or the other . 
I must go down and talk to my friend . 
I just sent him down the road to investigate something that I just thought worth investigating . 
Well , we want him back pretty soon , said Angus abruptly , for the wretched man upstairs has not only been murdered , but wiped out . 
How ? asked the priest . 
Father , said Flambeau , after a pause , upon my soul I believe it is more in your department than mine . 
No friend or foe has entered the house , but Smythe is gone , as if stolen by the fairies . 
If that is not supernatural , I As he spoke they were all checked by an unusual sight the big blue policeman came round the corner of the crescent , running . 
He came straight up to Brown . 
You're right , sir , he panted , they've just found poor Mr. Smythe's body in the canal down below . 
Angus put his hand wildly to his head . 
Did he run down and drown himself ? he asked . 
He never came down , I'll swear , said the constable , and he wasn't drowned either , for he died of a great stab over the heart . 
And yet you saw no one enter ? said Flambeau in a grave voice . 
Let us walk down the road a little , said the priest . 
As they reached the other end of the crescent he observed abruptly , Stupid of me ! I forgot to ask the policeman something . 
I wonder if they found a light brown sack . 
Why a light brown sack ? asked Angus , astonished . 
I am pleased to hear it , said Angus with hearty irony . 
It hasn't begun , so far as I am concerned . 
You must tell us all about it , said Flambeau with a strange heavy simplicity , like a child . 
Unconsciously they were walking with quickening steps down the long sweep of road on the other side of the high crescent , Father Brown leading briskly , though in silence . 
At last he said with an almost touching vagueness , Well , I'm afraid you'll think it so prosy . 
We always begin at the abstract end of things , and you can't begin this story anywhere else . 
Have you ever noticed this that people never answer what you say ? They answer what you mean or what they think you mean . 
She says There is nobody staying with us , meaning nobody of the sort you mean . 
But suppose a doctor inquiring into an epidemic asks , Who is staying in the house ? then the lady will remember the butler , the parlourmaid , and the rest . 
All language is used like that you never get a question answered literally , even when you get it answered truly . 
When those four quite honest men said that no man had gone into the Mansions , they did not really mean that no man had gone into them . 
They meant no man whom they could suspect of being your man . 
A man did go into the house , and did come out of it , but they never noticed him . 
An invisible man ? inquired Angus , raising his red eyebrows . 
A mentally invisible man , said Father Brown . 
A minute or two after he resumed in the same unassuming voice , like a man thinking his way . 
Of course you can't think of such a man , until you do think of him . 
That's where his cleverness comes in . 
But I came to think of him through two or three little things in the tale Mr. Angus told us . 
First , there was the fact that this Welkin went for long walks . 
And then there was the vast lot of stamp paper on the window . 
And then , most of all , there were the two things the young lady said things that couldn't be true . 
Don't get annoyed , he added hastily , noting a sudden movement of the Scotchman's head she thought they were true . 
A person can't be quite alone in a street a second before she receives a letter . 
She can't be quite alone in a street when she starts reading a letter just received . 
There must be somebody pretty near her he must be mentally invisible . 
Why must there be somebody near her ? asked Angus . 
Because , said Father Brown , barring carrier pigeons , somebody must have brought her the letter . 
Do you really mean to say , asked Flambeau , with energy , that Welkin carried his rival's letters to his lady ? Yes , said the priest . 
Welkin carried his rival's letters to his lady . 
You see , he had to . 
Oh , I can't stand much more of this , exploded Flambeau . 
You have not noticed such a man as this , for example . 
He took three quick strides forward , and put his hand on the shoulder of an ordinary passing postman who had bustled by them unnoticed under the shade of the trees . 
Nobody ever notices postmen somehow , he said thoughtfully yet they have passions like other men , and even carry large bags where a small corpse can be stowed quite easily . 
The postman , instead of turning naturally , had ducked and tumbled against the garden fence . 
He was a lean fair bearded man of very ordinary appearance , but as he turned an alarmed face over his shoulder , all three men were fixed with an almost fiendish squint . 
Flambeau went back to his sabres , purple rugs and Persian cat , having many things to attend to . 
John Turnbull Angus went back to the lady at the shop , with whom that imprudent young man contrives to be extremely comfortable . 
But Father Brown walked those snow covered hills under the stars for many hours with a murderer , and what they said to each other will never be known . 
It stopped one end of the glen or hollow like a blind alley and it looked like the end of the world . 
This note of a dreamy , almost a sleepy devilry , was no mere fancy from the landscape . 
For Scotland has a double dose of the poison called heredity the sense of blood in the aristocrat , and the sense of doom in the Calvinist . 
None were deeper in that labyrinthine ambition , in chamber within chamber of that palace of lies that was built up around Mary Queen of Scots . 
The rhyme in the country side attested the motive and the result of their machinations candidly As green sap to the simmer trees Is red gold to the Ogilvies . 
For many centuries there had never been a decent lord in Glengyle Castle and with the Victorian era one would have thought that all eccentricities were exhausted . 
The last Glengyle , however , satisfied his tribal tradition by doing the only thing that was left for him to do he disappeared . 
I do not mean that he went abroad by all accounts he was still in the castle , if he was anywhere . 
But though his name was in the church register and the big red Peerage , nobody ever saw him under the sun . 
If anyone saw him it was a solitary man servant , something between a groom and a gardener . 
He was so deaf that the more business like assumed him to be dumb while the more penetrating declared him to be half witted . 
If society needed any further proof that he was there , the servant persistently asserted that he was not at home . 
were summoned to the castle . 
There they found that the gardener , groom and cook had added to his many professions that of an undertaker , and had nailed up his noble master in a coffin . 
had lain for some time in the little churchyard on the hill . 
As Father Brown passed through the dim garden and came under the shadow of the chateau , the clouds were thick and the whole air damp and thundery . 
Against the last stripe of the green gold sunset he saw a black human silhouette a man in a chimney pot hat , with a big spade over his shoulder . 
The combination was queerly suggestive of a sexton but when Brown remembered the deaf servant who dug potatoes , he thought it natural enough . 
Even the man's start and suspicious stare as the priest went by were consonant enough with the vigilance and jealousy of such a type . 
The great door was opened by Flambeau himself , who had with him a lean man with iron grey hair and papers in his hand Inspector Craven from Scotland Yard . 
The entrance hall was mostly stripped and empty but the pale , sneering faces of one or two of the wicked Ogilvies looked down out of black periwigs and blackening canvas . 
Through the whole of its remaining length it was occupied by detached objects arranged at intervals objects about as inexplicable as any objects could be . 
One looked like a small heap of glittering broken glass . 
Another looked like a high heap of brown dust . 
A third appeared to be a plain stick of wood . 
Not a geological museum , replied Flambeau say a psychological museum . 
Oh , for the Lord's sake , cried the police detective laughing , don't let's begin with such long words . 
Don't you know what psychology means ? asked Flambeau with friendly surprise . 
Psychology means being off your chump . 
Still I hardly follow , replied the official . 
Well , said Flambeau , with decision , I mean that we've only found out one thing about Lord Glengyle . 
The black silhouette of Gow with his top hat and spade passed the window , dimly outlined against the darkening sky . 
But what makes you think it was lunacy ? Well , said Flambeau , you just listen to the list of things Mr. Craven has found in the house . 
We must get a candle , said Craven , suddenly . 
A storm is getting up , and it's too dark to read . 
Have you found any candles , asked Brown smiling , among your oddities ? Flambeau raised a grave face , and fixed his dark eyes on his friend . 
That is curious , too , he said . 
Twenty five candles , and not a trace of a candlestick . 
In the rapidly darkening room and rapidly rising wind , Brown went along the table to where a bundle of wax candles lay among the other scrappy exhibits . 
As he did so he bent accidentally over the heap of red brown dust and a sharp sneeze cracked the silence . 
Hullo ! he said , snuff ! He took one of the candles , lit it carefully , came back and stuck it in the neck of the whisky bottle . 
The unrestful night air , blowing through the crazy window , waved the long flame like a banner . 
And on every side of the castle they could hear the miles and miles of black pine wood seething like a black sea around a rock . 
I will read the inventory , began Craven gravely , picking up one of the papers , the inventory of what we found loose and unexplained in the castle . 
The list is as follows First item . 
A very considerable hoard of precious stones , nearly all diamonds , and all of them loose , without any setting whatever . 
Of course , it is natural that the Ogilvies should have family jewels but those are exactly the jewels that are almost always set in particular articles of ornament . 
The Ogilvies would seem to have kept theirs loose in their pockets , like coppers . 
It looks as if the old gentleman would not take the trouble to look in a pocket or lift a lid . 
Here and there about the house curious little heaps of minute pieces of metal , some like steel springs and some in the form of microscopic wheels . 
As if they had gutted some mechanical toy . 
The wax candles , which have to be stuck in bottle necks because there is nothing else to stick them in . 
Now I wish you to note how very much queerer all this is than anything we anticipated . 
For the central riddle we are prepared we have all seen at a glance that there was something wrong about the last earl . 
But suppose the worst in all this , the most lurid or melodramatic solution you like . 
The core of the tale we could imagine it is the fringes that are mysterious . 
By no stretch of fancy can the human mind connect together snuff and diamonds and wax and loose clockwork . 
I think I see the connection , said the priest . 
This Glengyle was mad against the French Revolution . 
He was an enthusiast for the ancien regime , and was trying to re enact literally the family life of the last Bourbons . 
Both the other men were staring at him with round eyes . 
What a perfectly extraordinary notion ! cried Flambeau . 
I give you that connection off hand . 
The real truth , I am very sure , lies deeper . 
He paused a moment and listened to the wailing of the wind in the turrets . 
Then he said , The late Earl of Glengyle was a thief . 
He lived a second and darker life as a desperate housebreaker . 
He did not have any candlesticks because he only used these candles cut short in the little lantern he carried . 
The snuff he employed as the fiercest French criminals have used pepper to fling it suddenly in dense masses in the face of a captor or pursuer . 
But the final proof is in the curious coincidence of the diamonds and the small steel wheels . 
Surely that makes everything plain to you ? Diamonds and small steel wheels are the only two instruments with which you can cut out a pane of glass . 
The bough of a broken pine tree lashed heavily in the blast against the windowpane behind them , as if in parody of a burglar , but they did not turn round . 
Their eyes were fastened on Father Brown . 
Diamonds and small wheels , repeated Craven ruminating . 
The true tale , of course , is something much more humdrum . 
Glengyle had found , or thought he had found , precious stones on his estate . 
Somebody had bamboozled him with those loose brilliants , saying they were found in the castle caverns . 
The little wheels are some diamond cutting affair . 
He had to do the thing very roughly and in a small way , with the help of a few shepherds or rude fellows on these hills . 
Snuff is the one great luxury of such Scotch shepherds it's the one thing with which you can bribe them . 
They didn't have candlesticks because they didn't want them they held the candles in their hands when they explored the caves . 
Is that all ? asked Flambeau after a long pause . 
Have we got to the dull truth at last ? Oh , no , said Father Brown . 
Ten false philosophies will fit the universe ten false theories will fit Glengyle Castle . 
But we want the real explanation of the castle and the universe . 
But are there no other exhibits ? Craven laughed , and Flambeau rose smiling to his feet and strolled down the long table . 
Items five , six , seven , etc . 
, he said , and certainly more varied than instructive . 
A curious collection , not of lead pencils , but of the lead out of lead pencils . 
A senseless stick of bamboo , with the top rather splintered . 
It might be the instrument of the crime . 
Only , there isn't any crime . 
We only put them in the museum because they seem curiously cut about and defaced . 
The heady tempest without drove a dreadful wrack of clouds across Glengyle and threw the long room into darkness as Father Brown picked up the little illuminated pages to examine them . 
He spoke before the drift of darkness had passed but it was the voice of an utterly new man . 
If I were you I should start now . 
There is only one reason I know of for this being done and the reason goes down to the roots of the world . 
These religious pictures are not just dirtied or torn or scrawled over , which might be done in idleness or bigotry , by children or by Protestants . 
These have been treated very carefully and very queerly . 
In every place where the great ornamented name of God comes in the old illuminations it has been elaborately taken out . 
The only other thing that has been removed is the halo round the head of the Child Jesus . 
Therefore , I say , let us get our warrant and our spade and our hatchet , and go up and break open that coffin . 
What do you mean ? demanded the London officer . 
I mean , answered the little priest , and his voice seemed to rise slightly in the roar of the gale . 
There is black magic somewhere at the bottom of this . 
How should I know ? How can I guess all their mazes down below ? Perhaps you can make a torture out of snuff and bamboo . 
Perhaps lunatics lust after wax and steel filings . 
Perhaps there is a maddening drug made of lead pencils ! Our shortest cut to the mystery is up the hill to the grave . 
His comrades hardly knew that they had obeyed and followed him till a blast of the night wind nearly flung them on their faces in the garden . 
The path up the hill to the churchyard was crooked but short only under that stress of wind it seemed laborious and long . 
Far as the eye could see , farther and farther as they mounted the slope , were seas beyond seas of pines , now all aslope one way under the wind . 
And that universal gesture seemed as vain as it was vast , as vain as if that wind were whistling about some unpeopled and purposeless planet . 
Through all that infinite growth of grey blue forests sang , shrill and high , that ancient sorrow that is in the heart of all heathen things . 
You see , said Father Brown in low but easy tone , Scotch people before Scotland existed were a curious lot . 
In fact , they're a curious lot still . 
But in the prehistoric times I fancy they really worshipped demons . 
That , he added genially , is why they jumped at the Puritan theology . 
Now , devil worship is a perfectly genuine religion . 
They had come up on the grassy scalp of the hill , one of the few bald spots that stood clear of the crashing and roaring pine forest . 
A mean enclosure , partly timber and partly wire , rattled in the tempest to tell them the border of the graveyard . 
At the foot of the grave grew great tall thistles , grey and silver in their decay . 
Once or twice , when a ball of thistledown broke under the breeze and flew past him , Craven jumped slightly as if it had been an arrow . 
Flambeau drove the blade of his spade through the whistling grass into the wet clay below . 
Then he seemed to stop and lean on it as on a staff . 
Go on , said the priest very gently . 
We are only trying to find the truth . 
What are you afraid of ? I am afraid of finding it , said Flambeau . 
The London detective spoke suddenly in a high crowing voice that was meant to be conversational and cheery . 
I wonder why he really did hide himself like that . 
Something nasty , I suppose was he a leper ? Something worse than that , said Flambeau . 
And what do you imagine , asked the other , would be worse than a leper ? I don't imagine it , said Flambeau . 
He dug for some dreadful minutes in silence , and then said in a choked voice , I'm afraid of his not being the right shape . 
Nor was that piece of paper , you know , said Father Brown quietly , and we survived even that piece of paper . 
Flambeau dug on with a blind energy . 
Craven stepped forward with his axe a thistle top touched him , and he flinched . 
Bones , said Craven and then he added , but it is a man , as if that were something unexpected . 
A vast heave went over Flambeau's huge figure . 
It's like the dream of an atheist . 
Pine trees and more pine trees and millions more pine trees God ! cried the man by the coffin , but he hasn't got a head . 
While the others stood rigid the priest , for the first time , showed a leap of startled concern . 
No head ! he repeated . 
No head ? as if he had almost expected some other deficiency . 
But even in that stiffened instant the tale took no root in them and seemed to have no reason in it . 
They stood listening to the loud woods and the shrieking sky quite foolishly , like exhausted animals . 
Thought seemed to be something enormous that had suddenly slipped out of their grasp . 
There are three headless men , said Father Brown , standing round this open grave . 
Sleep ! cried Father Brown . 
We have come to the end of the ways . 
And we need a sacrament , if only a natural one . 
Something has fallen on us that falls very seldom on men perhaps the worst thing that can fall on them . 
Towards daybreak the rocking storm had ended in roaring rains , and the day came with a curious freshness . 
He's a valuable man , that , said Father Brown . 
He does the potatoes amazingly . 
Still , he added , with a dispassionate charity , he has his faults which of us hasn't ? He doesn't dig this bank quite regularly . 
There , for instance , and he stamped suddenly on one spot . 
I'm really very doubtful about that potato . 
And why ? asked Craven , amused with the little man's hobby . 
I'm doubtful about it , said the other , because old Gow was doubtful about it himself . 
He put his spade in methodically in every place but just this . 
There must be a mighty fine potato just here . 
Flambeau pulled up the spade and impetuously drove it into the place . 
He turned up , under a load of soil , something that did not look like a potato , but rather like a monstrous , over domed mushroom . 
But it struck the spade with a cold click it rolled over like a ball , and grinned up at them . 
The Earl of Glengyle , said Brown sadly , and looked down heavily at the skull . 
Then , after a momentary meditation , he plucked the spade from Flambeau , and , saying We must hide it again , clamped the skull down in the earth . 
If one could only conceive , he muttered , the meaning of this last monstrosity . 
And leaning on the large spade handle , he buried his brows in his hands , as men do in church . 
All the corners of the sky were brightening into blue and silver the birds were chattering in the tiny garden trees so loud it seemed as if the trees themselves were talking . 
But the three men were silent enough . 
Well , I give it all up , said Flambeau at last boisterously . 
My brain and this world don't fit each other and there's an end of it . 
Snuff , spoilt Prayer Books , and the insides of musical boxes what Brown threw up his bothered brow and rapped on the spade handle with an intolerance quite unusual with him . 
Oh , tut , tut , tut , tut ! he cried . 
All that is as plain as a pikestaff . 
I understood the snuff and clockwork , and so on , when I first opened my eyes this morning . 
And since then I've had it out with old Gow , the gardener , who is neither so deaf nor so stupid as he pretends . 
There's nothing amiss about the loose items . 
I was wrong about the torn mass book , too there's no harm in that . 
But it's this last business . 
And , striding about again , he smoked moodily . 
My friend , said Flambeau , with a grim humour , you must be careful with me and remember I was once a criminal . 
The great advantage of that estate was that I always made up the story myself , and acted it as quick as I chose . 
This detective business of waiting about is too much for my French impatience . 
He stood rolling his eyes , the exact picture of an idiot . 
Lord , what a turnip I am ! he kept saying . 
Lord , what a turnip ! Then , in a somewhat groggy kind of way , he began to laugh . 
The dentist ! he repeated . 
I will get some sense out of this , cried Flambeau , striding forward , if I use the tortures of the Inquisition . 
You don't know how unhappy I have been . 
And now I know that there has been no deep sin in this business at all . 
Only a little lunacy , perhaps and who minds that ? He spun round once more , then faced them with gravity . 
This is not a story of crime , he said rather it is the story of a strange and crooked honesty . 
We are dealing with the one man on earth , perhaps , who has taken no more than his due . 
It is a study in the savage living logic that has been the religion of this race . 
That old local rhyme about the house of Glengyle As green sap to the simmer trees Is red gold to the Ogilvies was literal as well as metaphorical . 
It did not merely mean that the Glengyles sought for wealth it was also true that they literally gathered gold they had a huge collection of ornaments and utensils in that metal . 
They were , in fact , misers whose mania took that turn . 
In the light of that fact , run through all the things we found in the castle . 
And , mad as it sounds , because the halos and the name of God in the old missals were of real gold these also were taken away . 
The garden seemed to brighten , the grass to grow gayer in the strengthening sun , as the crazy truth was told . 
Flambeau lit a cigarette as his friend went on . 
Were taken away , continued Father Brown were taken away but not stolen . 
Thieves would never have left this mystery . 
Thieves would have taken the gold snuff boxes , snuff and all the gold pencil cases , lead and all . 
We have to deal with a man with a peculiar conscience , but certainly a conscience . 
I found that mad moralist this morning in the kitchen garden yonder , and I heard the whole story . 
The late Archibald Ogilvie was the nearest approach to a good man ever born at Glengyle . 
But his bitter virtue took the turn of the misanthrope he moped over the dishonesty of his ancestors , from which , somehow , he generalised a dishonesty of all men . 
More especially he distrusted philanthropy or free giving and he swore if he could find one man who took his exact rights he should have all the gold of Glengyle . 
Having delivered this defiance to humanity he shut himself up , without the smallest expectation of its being answered . 
One day , however , a deaf and seemingly senseless lad from a distant village brought him a belated telegram and Glengyle , in his acrid pleasantry , gave him a new farthing . 
At least he thought he had done so , but when he turned over his change he found the new farthing still there and a sovereign gone . 
The accident offered him vistas of sneering speculation . 
Either way , the boy would show the greasy greed of the species . 
Either he would vanish , a thief stealing a coin or he would sneak back with it virtuously , a snob seeking a reward . 
In the middle of that night Lord Glengyle was knocked up out of his bed for he lived alone and forced to open the door to the deaf idiot . 
The idiot brought with him , not the sovereign , but exactly nineteen shillings and eleven pence three farthings in change . 
Then the wild exactitude of this action took hold of the mad lord's brain like fire . 
He swore he was Diogenes , that had long sought an honest man , and at last had found one . 
He made a new will , which I have seen . 
He took the literal youth into his huge , neglected house , and trained him up as his solitary servant and after an odd manner his heir . 
So far , that is all and that is simple . 
He has stripped the house of gold , and taken not a grain that was not gold not so much as a grain of snuff . 
He lifted the gold leaf off an old illumination , fully satisfied that he left the rest unspoilt . 
All that I understood but I could not understand this skull business . 
I was really uneasy about that human head buried among the potatoes . 
It distressed me till Flambeau said the word . 
It will be all right . 
He will put the skull back in the grave , when he has taken the gold out of the tooth . 
If anyone walks along one of these roads he will pass a house which will probably catch his eye , though he may not be able to explain its attraction . 
In fact , it is an old fashioned house , very English and very suburban in the good old wealthy Clapham sense . 
And yet the house has a look of having been built chiefly for the hot weather . 
Looking at its white paint and sun blinds one thinks vaguely of pugarees and even of palm trees . 
I cannot trace the feeling to its root perhaps the place was built by an Anglo Indian . 
Anyone passing this house , I say , would be namelessly fascinated by it would feel that it was a place about which some story was to be told . 
And he would have been right , as you shall shortly hear . 
would have seen the front door open , and Father Brown , of the small church of St . 
Mungo , come out smoking a large pipe in company with a very tall French friend of his called Flambeau , who was smoking a very small cigarette . 
The whole house was built upon the plan of a T , but a T with a very long cross piece and a very short tail piece . 
The first of these two rooms was the study in which the celebrated Mr. Quinton wrote his wild Oriental poems and romances . 
The farther room was a glass conservatory full of tropical blossoms of quite unique and almost monstrous beauty , and on such afternoons as these glowing with gorgeous sunlight . 
Leonard Quinton , the poet , had himself most carefully arranged this effect and it is doubtful whether he so perfectly expressed his personality in any of his poems . 
For he was a man who drank and bathed in colours , who indulged his lust for colour somewhat to the neglect of form even of good form . 
might possibly not regard as genuine . 
Quinton was a genius , if a morbid one and even his morbidity appeared more in his life than in his work . 
In temperament he was weak and waspish , and his health had suffered heavily from oriental experiments with opium . 
Choking oneself with opium and writing little erotic verses on vellum was not his notion of how a gentleman should go to the devil . 
I say , he said breathlessly , I want to see old Quinton . 
Has he gone ? Mr. Quinton is in , I believe , said Father Brown , cleaning his pipe , but I do not know if you can see him . 
The doctor is with him at present . 
See Mr. Quinton ? said the doctor coolly . 
No , I'm afraid you can't . 
In fact , you mustn't on any account . 
Nobody must see him I've just given him his sleeping draught . 
No , but look here , old chap , said the youth in the red tie , trying affectionately to capture the doctor by the lapels of his coat . 
I'm simply sewn up , I tell you . 
He was a bull necked , good tempered little man with a small moustache , inexpressibly ordinary , yet giving an impression of capacity . 
That was a sound , spanking lie I told just now , remarked the medical man , laughing . 
In point of fact , poor Quinton doesn't have his sleeping draught for nearly half an hour . 
But I'm not going to have him bothered with that little beast , who only wants to borrow money that he wouldn't pay back if he could . 
He's a dirty little scamp , though he is Mrs. Quinton's brother , and she's as fine a woman as ever walked . 
Yes , said Father Brown . 
So I propose to hang about the garden till the creature has cleared off , went on the doctor , and then I'll go in to Quinton with the medicine . 
Atkinson can't get in , because I locked the door . 
In that case , Dr . 
Harris , said Flambeau , we might as well walk round at the back by the end of the conservatory . 
There's no entrance to it that way , but it's worth seeing , even from the outside . 
What is this ? asked Father Brown , regarding it with some disfavour . 
Oh , Quinton's , I suppose , said Dr . 
Harris carelessly he has all sorts of Chinese knickknacks about the place . 
Or perhaps it belongs to that mild Hindoo of his whom he keeps on a string . 
What Hindoo ? asked Father Brown , still staring at the dagger in his hand . 
Oh , some Indian conjuror , said the doctor lightly a fraud , of course . 
You don't believe in magic ? asked Father Brown , without looking up . 
O crickey ! magic ! said the doctor . 
It's very beautiful , said the priest in a low , dreaming voice the colours are very beautiful . 
But it's the wrong shape . 
What for ? asked Flambeau , staring . 
It's the wrong shape in the abstract . 
Don't you ever feel that about Eastern art ? The colours are intoxicatingly lovely but the shapes are mean and bad deliberately mean and bad . 
I have seen wicked things in a Turkey carpet . 
Mon Dieu ! cried Flambeau , laughing . 
They are letters and symbols in a language I don't know but I know they stand for evil words , went on the priest , his voice growing lower and lower . 
The lines go wrong on purpose like serpents doubling to escape . 
What the devil are you talking about ? said the doctor with a loud laugh . 
Flambeau spoke quietly to him in answer . 
Oh , rats ! said the scientist . 
Why , look at it , cried Father Brown , holding out the crooked knife at arm's length , as if it were some glittering snake . 
Don't you see it is the wrong shape ? Don't you see that it has no hearty and plain purpose ? It does not point like a spear . 
It does not sweep like a scythe . 
It does not look like a weapon . 
It looks like an instrument of torture . 
Well , as you don't seem to like it , said the jolly Harris , it had better be taken back to its owner . 
Haven't we come to the end of this confounded conservatory yet ? This house is the wrong shape , if you like . 
You don't understand , said Father Brown , shaking his head . 
The shape of this house is quaint it is even laughable . 
But there is nothing wrong about it . 
As they spoke they came round the curve of glass that ended the conservatory , an uninterrupted curve , for there was neither door nor window by which to enter at that end . 
These traits were well known to all three of them but even had it not been so , it may be doubted whether they would have looked at Quinton just then . 
Their eyes were riveted on another object . 
He was looking through the glass at the sleeper , and he was more motionless than a mountain . 
Who is that ? cried Father Brown , stepping back with a hissing intake of his breath . 
Oh , it is only that Hindoo humbug , growled Harris but I don't know what the deuce he's doing here . 
It looks like hypnotism , said Flambeau , biting his black moustache . 
Why are you unmedical fellows always talking bosh about hypnotism ? cried the doctor . 
It looks a deal more like burglary . 
Well , we will speak to it , at any rate , said Flambeau , who was always for action . 
One long stride took him to the place where the Indian stood . 
Bowing from his great height , which overtopped even the Oriental's , he said with placid impudence Good evening , sir . 
Do you want anything ? Quite slowly , like a great ship turning into a harbour , the great yellow face turned , and looked at last over its white shoulder . 
They were startled to see that its yellow eyelids were quite sealed , as in sleep . 
Thank you , said the face in excellent English . 
Then , half opening the lids , so as to show a slit of opalescent eyeball , he repeated , I want nothing . 
Then he opened his eyes wide with a startling stare , said , I want nothing , and went rustling away into the rapidly darkening garden . 
The Christian is more modest , muttered Father Brown he wants something . 
What on earth was he doing ? asked Flambeau , knitting his black brows and lowering his voice . 
I should like to talk to you later , said Father Brown . 
The sunlight was still a reality , but it was the red light of evening , and the bulk of the garden trees and bushes grew blacker and blacker against it . 
They turned round the end of the conservatory , and walked in silence down the other side to get round to the front door . 
To their surprise , however , he had not been alone . 
She looked a little stern , but was entirely courteous . 
Harris , was all she said . 
Good evening , Mrs. Quinton , said the little doctor heartily . 
I am just going to give your husband his sleeping draught . 
Yes , she said in a clear voice . 
I think it is quite time . 
And she smiled at them , and went sweeping into the house . 
That woman's over driven , said Father Brown that's the kind of woman that does her duty for twenty years , and then does something dreadful . 
The little doctor looked at him for the first time with an eye of interest . 
Did you ever study medicine ? he asked . 
You have to know something of the mind as well as the body , answered the priest we have to know something of the body as well as the mind . 
Well , said the doctor , I think I'll go and give Quinton his stuff . 
They had turned the corner of the front facade , and were approaching the front doorway . 
As they turned into it they saw the man in the white robe for the third time . 
He came so straight towards the front door that it seemed quite incredible that he had not just come out of the study opposite to it . 
Yet they knew that the study door was locked . 
Father Brown and Flambeau , however , kept this weird contradiction to themselves , and Dr . 
Harris was not a man to waste his thoughts on the impossible . 
He permitted the omnipresent Asiatic to make his exit , and then stepped briskly into the hall . 
There he found a figure which he had already forgotten . 
The inane Atkinson was still hanging about , humming and poking things with his knobby cane . 
The doctor's face had a spasm of disgust and decision , and he whispered rapidly to his companion I must lock the door again , or this rat will get in . 
But I shall be out again in two minutes . 
He rapidly unlocked the door and locked it again behind him , just balking a blundering charge from the young man in the billycock . 
The young man threw himself impatiently on a hall chair . 
Flambeau looked at a Persian illumination on the wall Father Brown , who seemed in a sort of daze , dully eyed the door . 
In about four minutes the door was opened again . 
Atkinson was quicker this time . 
Oh , I know what you want . 
Take it , and leave me in peace . 
I'm writing a song about peacocks . 
Before the door closed half a sovereign came flying through the aperture and Atkinson , stumbling forward , caught it with singular dexterity . 
So that's settled , said the doctor , and , locking the door savagely , he led the way out into the garden . 
Poor Leonard can get a little peace now , he added to Father Brown he's locked in all by himself for an hour or two . 
Yes , answered the priest and his voice sounded jolly enough when we left him . 
Then he said abruptly Where is Mrs. Quinton ! She has gone up to her room , said the doctor . 
That is her shadow on the blind . 
Father Brown looked up , and frowningly scrutinised a dark outline at the gas lit window . 
Yes , he said , that is her shadow , and he walked a yard or two and threw himself upon a garden seat . 
Flambeau sat down beside him but the doctor was one of those energetic people who live naturally on their legs . 
He walked away , smoking , into the twilight , and the two friends were left together . 
I think it's that Indian at least , partly . 
He sank into silence , and watched the distant outline of the Indian , who still sat rigid as if in prayer . 
The landscape was growing rapidly dark , as if for a storm , but they could still see all the figures in their various places . 
When that Indian spoke to us , went on Brown in a conversational undertone , I had a sort of vision , a vision of him and all his universe . 
Yet he only said the same thing three times . 
When first he said I want nothing , it meant only that he was impenetrable , that Asia does not give itself away . 
And when he said the third time , I want nothing , he said it with blazing eyes . 
And the same instant the doctor down by the end of the conservatory began running towards them , calling out something as he ran . 
Foul play ! he cried what have you been doing to him , you dog ? The priest had sprung erect , and had the voice of steel of a soldier in command . 
No fighting , he cried coolly we are enough to hold anyone we want to . 
What is the matter , doctor ? Things are not right with Quinton , said the doctor , quite white . 
I could just see him through the glass , and I don't like the way he's lying . 
It's not as I left him , anyhow . 
Let us go in to him , said Father Brown shortly . 
You can leave Mr. Atkinson alone . 
I have had him in sight since we heard Quinton's voice . 
I will stop here and watch him , said Flambeau hurriedly . 
You go in and see . 
The doctor and the priest flew to the study door , unlocked it , and fell into the room . 
In the middle of this table lay a single sheet of paper , evidently left there on purpose . 
Father Brown read the words three times before he put down the paper . 
The words were I die by my own hand yet I die murdered ! They were in the quite inimitable , not to say illegible , handwriting of Leonard Quinton . 
Then Father Brown , still keeping the paper in his hand , strode towards the conservatory , only to meet his medical friend coming back with a face of assurance and collapse . 
He's done it , said Harris . 
Into his left side was thrust the queer dagger that they had picked up in the garden , and his limp hand still rested on the hilt . 
Outside the storm had come at one stride , like the night in Coleridge , and garden and glass roof were darkened with driving rain . 
Father Brown seemed to be studying the paper more than the corpse he held it close to his eyes and seemed trying to read it in the twilight . 
Then he held it up against the faint light , and , as he did so , lightning stared at them for an instant so white that the paper looked black against it . 
Darkness full of thunder followed , and after the thunder Father Brown's voice said out of the dark Doctor , this paper is the wrong shape . 
What do you mean ? asked Doctor Harris , with a frowning stare . 
It isn't square , answered Brown . 
It has a sort of edge snipped off at the corner . 
What does it mean ? How the deuce should I know ? growled the doctor . 
Shall we move this poor chap , do you think ? He's quite dead . 
No , answered the priest we must leave him as he lies and send for the police . 
But he was still scrutinising the paper . 
As they went back through the study he stopped by the table and picked up a small pair of nail scissors . 
Ah , he said , with a sort of relief , this is what he did it with . 
But yet And he knitted his brows . 
Oh , stop fooling with that scrap of paper , said the doctor emphatically . 
It was a fad of his . 
He had hundreds of them . 
He cut all his paper like that , as he pointed to a stack of sermon paper still unused on another and smaller table . 
Father Brown went up to it and held up a sheet . 
It was the same irregular shape . 
Quite so , he said . 
And here I see the corners that were snipped off . 
And to the indignation of his colleague he began to count them . 
That's all right , he said , with an apologetic smile . 
Twenty three sheets cut and twenty two corners cut off them . 
And as I see you are impatient we will rejoin the others . 
Who is to tell his wife ? asked Dr . 
Will you go and tell her now , while I send a servant for the police ? As you will , said Father Brown indifferently . 
And he went out to the hall door . 
Here also he found a drama , though of a more grotesque sort . 
Flambeau was about to leap upon his enemy and secure him once more , when the priest patted him easily on the shoulder . 
Make it up with Mr. Atkinson , my friend , he said . 
Beg a mutual pardon and say Good night . 
We need not detain him any longer . 
turned involuntarily towards the dim grassy bank amid the tossing trees purple with twilight , where they had last seen the brown man swaying in his strange prayers . 
Confound him , cried the doctor , stamping furiously . 
Now I know that it was that nigger that did it . 
I thought you didn't believe in magic , said Father Brown quietly . 
No more I did , said the doctor , rolling his eyes . 
I only know that I loathed that yellow devil when I thought he was a sham wizard . 
And I shall loathe him more if I come to think he was a real one . 
Well , his having escaped is nothing , said Flambeau . 
For we could have proved nothing and done nothing against him . 
One hardly goes to the parish constable with a story of suicide imposed by witchcraft or auto suggestion . 
Meanwhile Father Brown had made his way into the house , and now went to break the news to the wife of the dead man . 
When he came out again he looked a little pale and tragic , but what passed between them in that interview was never known , even when all was known . 
You have sent for the police , haven't you ? he asked . 
They ought to be here in ten minutes . 
Will you do me a favour ? said the priest quietly . 
Now , I want you to write out a report of this case for my private use . 
Yours is a clever trade , he said , looking the doctor gravely and steadily in the face . 
I sometimes think that you know some details of this matter which you have not thought fit to mention . 
Mine is a confidential trade like yours , and I will treat anything you write for me in strict confidence . 
Flambeau , said Father Brown , there is a long seat there under the veranda , where we can smoke out of the rain . 
You are my only friend in the world , and I want to talk to you . 
Or , perhaps , be silent with you . 
My friend , he said at length , this is a very queer case . 
I should think it was , said Flambeau , with something like a shudder . 
You call it queer , and I call it queer , said the other , and yet we mean quite opposite things . 
The modern mind always mixes up two different ideas mystery in the sense of what is marvellous , and mystery in the sense of what is complicated . 
That is half its difficulty about miracles . 
A miracle is startling but it is simple . 
It is simple because it is a miracle . 
instead of indirectly through nature or human wills . 
Now , you mean that this business is marvellous because it is miraculous , because it is witchcraft worked by a wicked Indian . 
Understand , I do not say that it was not spiritual or diabolic . 
Heaven and hell only know by what surrounding influences strange sins come into the lives of men . 
The quality of a miracle is mysterious , but its manner is simple . 
Now , the manner of this business has been the reverse of simple . 
The storm that had slackened for a little seemed to be swelling again , and there came heavy movements as of faint thunder . 
As one knows the crooked track of a snail , I know the crooked track of a man . 
It was crookeder than the dagger that killed him . 
You mean the paper on which Quinton confessed his suicide , said Flambeau . 
I mean the paper on which Quinton wrote , I die by my own hand , answered Father Brown . 
The shape of that paper , my friend , was the wrong shape the wrong shape , if ever I have seen it in this wicked world . 
It only had a corner snipped off , said Flambeau , and I understand that all Quinton's paper was cut that way . 
It was a very odd way , said the other , and a very bad way , to my taste and fancy . 
His handwriting , though hard to read , was bold and beautiful . 
I can't prove what I say I can't prove anything . 
But I tell you with the full force of conviction that he could never have cut that mean little piece off a sheet of paper . 
Do you remember the shape ? It was a mean shape . 
It was a wrong shape . 
But , said Flambeau , as the priest put his cigar in his mouth again and leaned back , staring at the roof , suppose somebody else did use the scissors . 
Flambeau laid his cigar down . 
You mean , he said , that the writing was forged ? No , said Father Brown . 
Quinton wrote it all right . 
Well , there you are , said the aggravated Flambeau Quinton wrote , I die by my own hand , with his own hand on a plain piece of paper . 
Of the wrong shape , said the priest calmly . 
Oh , the shape be damned ! cried Flambeau . 
What has the shape to do with it ? There were twenty three snipped papers , resumed Brown unmoved , and only twenty two pieces snipped off . 
Therefore one of the pieces had been destroyed , probably that from the written paper . 
Does that suggest anything to you ? A light dawned on Flambeau's face , and he said There was something else written by Quinton , some other words . 
They will tell you I die by my own hand , or Do not believe that Hotter , as the children say , said his friend . 
But the piece was hardly half an inch across there was no room for one word , let alone five . 
What about quotation marks ? said the priest , and flung his cigar far into the darkness like a shooting star . 
He At this moment the door opened briskly behind them , and the doctor came out with his hat on . 
He put a long envelope into the priest's hands . 
That's the document you wanted , he said , and I must be getting home . 
Good night , said Father Brown , as the doctor walked briskly to the gate . 
He had left the front door open , so that a shaft of gaslight fell upon them . 
In the light of this Brown opened the envelope and read the following words DEAR FATHER BROWN , Vicisti Galilee . 
Otherwise , damn your eyes , which are very penetrating ones . 
Long before I became a doctor , when I was a schoolboy keeping mice and spiders , I believed that to be a good animal is the best thing in the world . 
But just now I am shaken I have believed in Nature but it seems as if Nature could betray a man . 
Can there be anything in your bosh ? I am really getting morbid . 
What was there wrong in that ? Nature told me to , and it's love that makes the world go round . 
I also thought quite sincerely that she would be happier with a clean animal like me than with that tormenting little lunatic . 
What was there wrong in that ? I was only facing facts , like a man of science . 
She would have been happier . 
According to my own creed I was quite free to kill Quinton , which was the best thing for everybody , even himself . 
But as a healthy animal I had no notion of killing myself . 
I resolved , therefore , that I would never do it until I saw a chance that would leave me scot free . 
I saw that chance this morning . 
I have been three times , all told , into Quinton's study today . 
I left the room , and went out into the garden intoxicated with a frightful opportunity . 
We walked round the house and two more things happened in my favour . 
You suspected an Indian , and you found a dagger which the Indian might most probably use . 
Taking the opportunity to stuff it in my pocket I went back to Quinton's study , locked the door , and gave him his sleeping draught . 
Quinton lay down in the conservatory , and I came through the study . 
I am a quick man with my hands , and in a minute and a half I had done what I wanted to do . 
I had emptied all the first part of Quinton's romance into the fireplace , where it burnt to ashes . 
Then I saw that the quotation marks wouldn't do , so I snipped them off , and to make it seem likelier , snipped the whole quire to match . 
Then I came out with the knowledge that Quinton's confession of suicide lay on the front table , while Quinton lay alive but asleep in the conservatory beyond . 
The last act was a desperate one you can guess it I pretended to have seen Quinton dead and rushed to his room . 
I delayed you with the paper , and , being a quick man with my hands , killed Quinton while you were looking at his confession of suicide . 
He was half asleep , being drugged , and I put his own hand on the knife and drove it into his body . 
The knife was of so queer a shape that no one but an operator could have calculated the angle that would reach his heart . 
I wonder if you noticed this . 
When I had done it , the extraordinary thing happened . 
I felt just as if I had done something wrong . 
What is the matter with me ? . 
or can one have remorse , just as if one were in Byron's poems ! I cannot write any more . 
He took it , moreover , in little rivers in the Eastern counties , rivers so small that the boat looked like a magic boat , sailing on land through meadows and cornfields . 
The vessel was just comfortable for two people there was room only for necessities , and Flambeau had stocked it with such things as his special philosophy considered necessary . 
Like a true philosopher , Flambeau had no aim in his holiday but , like a true philosopher , he had an excuse . 
He had a sort of half purpose , which he took just so seriously that its success would crown the holiday , but just so lightly that its failure would not spoil it . 
It consisted simply of a visiting card , in an envelope with an English postmark . 
On the back of the card was written in French and in green ink If you ever retire and become respectable , come and see me . 
I want to meet you , for I have met all the other great men of my time . 
That trick of yours of getting one detective to arrest the other was the most splendid scene in French history . 
On the front of the card was engraved in the formal fashion , Prince Saradine , Reed House , Reed Island , Norfolk . 
He had not troubled much about the prince then , beyond ascertaining that he had been a brilliant and fashionable figure in southern Italy . 
The prince then lived in Vienna for a time , but his more recent years seemed to have been passed in perpetual and restless travel . 
Whether he should find the place he had no idea and , indeed , it was sufficiently small and forgotten . 
But , as things fell out , he found it much sooner than he expected . 
They had moored their boat one night under a bank veiled in high grasses and short pollarded trees . 
Sleep , after heavy sculling , had come to them early , and by a corresponding accident they awoke before it was light . 
Both men had simultaneously a reminiscence of childhood , of the elfin and adventurous time when tall weeds close over us like woods . 
Standing up thus against the large low moon , the daisies really seemed to be giant daisies , the dandelions to be giant dandelions . 
Somehow it reminded them of the dado of a nursery wall paper . 
The drop of the river bed sufficed to sink them under the roots of all shrubs and flowers and make them gaze upwards at the grass . 
By Jove ! said Flambeau , it's like being in fairyland . 
Father Brown sat bolt upright in the boat and crossed himself . 
His movement was so abrupt that his friend asked him , with a mild stare , what was the matter . 
The people who wrote the mediaeval ballads , answered the priest , knew more about fairies than you do . 
It isn't only nice things that happen in fairyland . 
Oh , bosh ! said Flambeau . 
Only nice things could happen under such an innocent moon . 
I am for pushing on now and seeing what does really come . 
We may die and rot before we ever see again such a moon or such a mood . 
All right , said Father Brown . 
I never said it was always wrong to enter fairyland . 
I only said it was always dangerous . 
It was already an easy twilight , in which all things were visible , when they came under the hanging roofs and bridges of this riverside hamlet . 
The houses , with their long , low , stooping roofs , seemed to come down to drink at the river , like huge grey and red cattle . 
The broadening and whitening dawn had already turned to working daylight before they saw any living creature on the wharves and bridges of that silent town . 
By an impulse not to be analysed , Flambeau rose to his full height in the swaying boat and shouted at the man to ask if he knew Reed Island or Reed House . 
The prosperous man's smile grew slightly more expansive , and he simply pointed up the river towards the next bend of it . 
Flambeau went ahead without further speech . 
The early morning breeze rustled the reeds round the island and sang in the strange ribbed house as in a giant pan pipe . 
By George ! cried Flambeau here is the place , after all ! Here is Reed Island , if ever there was one . 
Here is Reed House , if it is anywhere . 
I believe that fat man with whiskers was a fairy . 
Perhaps , remarked Father Brown impartially . 
If he was , he was a bad fairy . 
But even as he spoke the impetuous Flambeau had run his boat ashore in the rattling reeds , and they stood in the long , quaint islet beside the odd and silent house . 
The visitors approached it , therefore , by a small path running round nearly three sides of the house , close under the low eaves . 
The front door , when they came round to it at last , was flanked by two turquoise blue flower pots . 
His Highness may be here any minute , he said , and would be distressed to have just missed any gentleman he had invited . 
We have orders always to keep a little cold lunch for him and his friends , and I am sure he would wish it to be offered . 
Moved with curiosity to this minor adventure , Flambeau assented gracefully , and followed the old man , who ushered him ceremoniously into the long , lightly panelled room . 
It was somehow like lunching out of doors . 
Asked by Flambeau whether the soldierly person was the prince , the butler answered shortly in the negative it was the prince's younger brother , Captain Stephen Saradine , he said . 
And with that the old man seemed to dry up suddenly and lose all taste for conversation . 
It appeared that she and the butler were the only survivors of the prince's original foreign menage the other servants now in the house being new and collected in Norfolk by the housekeeper . 
Pretty and unique as it was , the place had about it a curious luminous sadness . 
Hours passed in it like days . 
The long , well windowed rooms were full of daylight , but it seemed a dead daylight . 
We have taken a wrong turning , and come to a wrong place , said Father Brown , looking out of the window at the grey green sedges and the silver flood . 
Never mind one can sometimes do good by being the right person in the wrong place . 
The butler indeed was naturally uncommunicative . 
He betrayed a sullen and almost animal affection for his master who , he said , had been very badly treated . 
The chief offender seemed to be his highness's brother , whose name alone would lengthen the old man's lantern jaws and pucker his parrot nose into a sneer . 
Captain Stephen was a ne'er do weel , apparently , and had drained his benevolent brother of hundreds and thousands forced him to fly from fashionable life and live quietly in this retreat . 
That was all Paul , the butler , would say , and Paul was obviously a partisan . 
The Italian housekeeper was somewhat more communicative , being , as Brown fancied , somewhat less content . 
Her tone about her master was faintly acid though not without a certain awe . 
Flambeau and his friend were standing in the room of the looking glasses examining the red sketch of the two boys , when the housekeeper swept in swiftly on some domestic errand . 
But Flambeau , who had his face close up to the picture , was already saying in a loud voice , The brothers Saradine , I suppose . 
They both look innocent enough . 
It would be hard to say which is the good brother and which the bad . 
Then , realising the lady's presence , he turned the conversation with some triviality , and strolled out into the garden . 
But Father Brown still gazed steadily at the red crayon sketch and Mrs. Anthony still gazed steadily at Father Brown . 
She had large and tragic brown eyes , and her olive face glowed darkly with a curious and painful wonder as of one doubtful of a stranger's identity or purpose . 
He says it would be hard to pick out the good and bad brothers . 
Oh , it would be hard , it would be mighty hard , to pick out the good one . 
I don't understand you , said Father Brown , and began to move away . 
The woman took a step nearer to him , with thunderous brows and a sort of savage stoop , like a bull lowering his horns . 
There isn't a good one , she hissed . 
There was badness enough in the captain taking all that money , but I don't think there was much goodness in the prince giving it . 
The captain's not the only one with something against him . 
A light dawned on the cleric's averted face , and his mouth formed silently the word blackmail . 
Even as he did so the woman turned an abrupt white face over her shoulder and almost fell . 
The door had opened soundlessly and the pale Paul stood like a ghost in the doorway . 
By the weird trick of the reflecting walls , it seemed as if five Pauls had entered by five doors simultaneously . 
His Highness , he said , has just arrived . 
In the same flash the figure of a man had passed outside the first window , crossing the sunlit pane like a lighted stage . 
An instant later he passed at the second window and the many mirrors repainted in successive frames the same eagle profile and marching figure . 
He was erect and alert , but his hair was white and his complexion of an odd ivory yellow . 
He had that short , curved Roman nose which generally goes with long , lean cheeks and chin , but these were partly masked by moustache and imperial . 
When he came round to the front door they heard the stiff Paul open it , and heard the new arrival say cheerfully , Well , you see I have come . 
The stiff Mr. Paul bowed and answered in his inaudible manner for a few minutes their conversation could not be heard . 
Then the butler said , Everything is at your disposal and the glove flapping Prince Saradine came gaily into the room to greet them . 
They beheld once more that spectral scene five princes entering a room with five doors . 
The prince put the white hat and yellow gloves on the table and offered his hand quite cordially . 
Delighted to see you here , Mr. Flambeau , he said . 
Knowing you very well by reputation , if that's not an indiscreet remark . 
Not at all , answered Flambeau , laughing . 
Very few reputations are gained by unsullied virtue . 
The prince flashed a sharp look at him to see if the retort had any personal point then he laughed also and offered chairs to everyone , including himself . 
Pleasant little place , this , I think , he said with a detached air . 
Not much to do , I fear but the fishing is really good . 
The priest , who was staring at him with the grave stare of a baby , was haunted by some fancy that escaped definition . 
He looked at the grey , carefully curled hair , yellow white visage , and slim , somewhat foppish figure . 
These were not unnatural , though perhaps a shade prononce , like the outfit of a figure behind the footlights . 
The nameless interest lay in something else , in the very framework of the face Brown was tormented with a half memory of having seen it somewhere before . 
The man looked like some old friend of his dressed up . 
Then he suddenly remembered the mirrors , and put his fancy down to some psychological effect of that multiplication of human masks . 
Prince Saradine distributed his social attentions between his guests with great gaiety and tact . 
He had evidently lived in varied cities and very motley societies , for some of his cheerfullest stories were about gambling hells and opium dens , Australian bushrangers or Italian brigands . 
Father Brown knew that the once celebrated Saradine had spent his last few years in almost ceaseless travel , but he had not guessed that the travels were so disreputable or so amusing . 
All these were left to the two old servants , especially to the butler , who was plainly the central pillar of the house . 
The same singular sentiment of some sad and evil fairyland crossed the priest's mind again like a little grey cloud . 
I wish Flambeau were back , he muttered . 
Do you believe in doom ? asked the restless Prince Saradine suddenly . 
No , answered his guest . 
The prince turned from the window and stared at him in a singular manner , his face in shadow against the sunset . 
What do you mean ? he asked . 
I mean that we here are on the wrong side of the tapestry , answered Father Brown . 
The things that happen here do not seem to mean anything they mean something somewhere else . 
Somewhere else retribution will come on the real offender . 
Here it often seems to fall on the wrong person . 
The prince made an inexplicable noise like an animal in his shadowed face the eyes were shining queerly . 
A new and shrewd thought exploded silently in the other's mind . 
Then Father Brown awoke tardily to a second truth . 
In the mirrors before him he could see the silent door standing open , and the silent Mr. Paul standing in it , with his usual pallid impassiveness . 
A boat ! repeated the prince a gentleman ? and he rose to his feet . 
But except for the accident that both outlines were aquiline , they had little in common . 
The association was assisted by something old and odd about the whole get up , as of a man who had never troubled to change the fashions of his fathers . 
He had a shabby blue frock coat , a red , soldierly looking waistcoat , and a kind of coarse white trousers common among the early Victorians , but strangely incongruous today . 
From all this old clothes shop his olive face stood out strangely young and monstrously sincere . 
The deuce ! said Prince Saradine , and clapping on his white hat he went to the front door himself , flinging it open on the sunset garden . 
By that time the new comer and his followers were drawn up on the lawn like a small stage army . 
The six boatmen had pulled the boat well up on shore , and were guarding it almost menacingly , holding their oars erect like spears . 
They were swarthy men , and some of them wore earrings . 
But one of them stood forward beside the olive faced young man in the red waistcoat , and carried a large black case of unfamiliar form . 
Your name , said the young man , is Saradine ? Saradine assented rather negligently . 
The new comer had dull , dog like brown eyes , as different as possible from the restless and glittering grey eyes of the prince . 
Confound this crystal palace ! he muttered . 
One sees everything too many times . 
If you are Prince Saradine , said the young man , I may tell you that my name is Antonelli . 
Antonelli , repeated the prince languidly . 
Somehow I remember the name . 
Permit me to present myself , said the young Italian . 
The prince , whatever he was , was evidently not a coward he sprang at his enemy's throat and almost bore him backwards to the grass . 
But his enemy extricated himself with a singularly inappropriate air of hurried politeness . 
That is all right , he said , panting and in halting English . 
Marco , open the case . 
The man beside him with the earrings and the big black case proceeded to unlock it . 
He took out of it two long Italian rapiers , with splendid steel hilts and blades , which he planted point downwards in the lawn . 
But everything else was unchanged , so sudden had been the interruption . 
The sunset gold still glowed on the lawn , and the bittern still boomed as announcing some small but dreadful destiny . 
Prince Saradine , said the man called Antonelli , when I was an infant in the cradle you killed my father and stole my mother my father was the more fortunate . 
You did not kill him fairly , as I am going to kill you . 
You and my wicked mother took him driving to a lonely pass in Sicily , flung him down a cliff , and went on your way . 
I could imitate you if I chose , but imitating you is too vile . 
I have followed you all over the world , and you have always fled from me . 
But this is the end of the world and of you . 
I have you now , and I give you the chance you never gave my father . 
Choose one of those swords . 
Father Brown had also sprung forward , striving to compose the dispute but he soon found his personal presence made matters worse . 
Saradine was a French freemason and a fierce atheist , and a priest moved him by the law of contraries . 
And for the other man neither priest nor layman moved him at all . 
This young man with the Bonaparte face and the brown eyes was something far sterner than a puritan a pagan . 
He was a simple slayer from the morning of the earth a man of the stone age a man of stone . 
One hope remained , the summoning of the household and Father Brown ran back into the house . 
But the moment she turned a ghastly face upon him , he resolved one of the riddles of the house of mirrors . 
The heavy brown eyes of Antonelli were the heavy brown eyes of Mrs. Anthony and in a flash he saw half the story . 
Your son is outside , he said without wasting words either he or the prince will be killed . 
Where is Mr. Paul ? He is at the landing stage , said the woman faintly . 
He is he is signalling for help . 
Mrs. Anthony , said Father Brown seriously , there is no time for nonsense . 
My friend has his boat down the river fishing . 
Your son's boat is guarded by your son's men . 
There is only this one canoe what is Mr. Paul doing with it ? Santa Maria ! I do not know , she said and swooned all her length on the matted floor . 
Father Brown lifted her to a sofa , flung a pot of water over her , shouted for help , and then rushed down to the landing stage of the little island . 
But the canoe was already in mid stream , and old Paul was pulling and pushing it up the river with an energy incredible at his years . 
I will save my master , he cried , his eyes blazing maniacally . 
A duel is bad enough , he muttered , rubbing up his rough dust coloured hair , but there's something wrong about this duel , even as a duel . 
I feel it in my bones . 
Away on the farthest cape or headland of the long islet , on a strip of turf beyond the last rank of roses , the duellists had already crossed swords . 
Evening above them was a dome of virgin gold , and , distant as they were , every detail was picked out . 
The two swords sparkled from point to pommel like two diamond pins . 
There was something frightful in the two figures appearing so little and so gay . 
They looked like two butterflies trying to pin each other to a cork . 
Father Brown ran as hard as he could , his little legs going like a wheel . 
For the two men were singularly well matched , the prince using his skill with a sort of cynical confidence , the Sicilian using his with a murderous care . 
Few finer fencing matches can ever have been seen in crowded amphitheatres than that which tinkled and sparkled on that forgotten island in the reedy river . 
The dizzy fight was balanced so long that hope began to revive in the protesting priest by all common probability Paul must soon come back with the police . 
It would be some comfort even if Flambeau came back from his fishing , for Flambeau , physically speaking , was worth four other men . 
But there was no sign of Flambeau , and , what was much queerer , no sign of Paul or the police . 
No other raft or stick was left to float on in that lost island in that vast nameless pool , they were cut off as on a rock in the Pacific . 
Almost as he had the thought the ringing of the rapiers quickened to a rattle , the prince's arms flew up , and the point shot out behind between his shoulder blades . 
He went over with a great whirling movement , almost like one throwing the half of a boy's cart wheel . 
The sword flew from his hand like a shooting star , and dived into the distant river . 
The Sicilian had made blood offering to the ghost of his father . 
The priest was instantly on his knees by the corpse but only to make too sure that it was a corpse . 
The little priest rose with a distinctly dubious grimace . 
I shall not say anything , said the monomaniac , with a wonderful and peaceful face . 
I shall never say anything more . 
I am very happy , and I only want to be hanged . 
The light died along the river mist rose in the marshy banks a few belated birds flitted fitfully across . 
was an unspeakable certainty that there was something still unexplained . 
This sense that had clung to him all day could not be fully explained by his fancy about looking glass land . 
Somehow he had not seen the real story , but some game or masque . 
And yet people do not get hanged or run through the body for the sake of a charade . 
Flambeau ! he cried , and shook his friend by both hands again and again , much to the astonishment of that sportsman , as he came on shore with his fishing tackle . 
Flambeau , he said , so you're not killed ? Killed ! repeated the angler in great astonishment . 
And why should I be killed ? Oh , because nearly everybody else is , said his companion rather wildly . 
Saradine got murdered , and Antonelli wants to be hanged , and his mother's fainted , and I , for one , don't know whether I'm in this world or the next . 
But , thank God , you're in the same one . 
And he took the bewildered Flambeau's arm . 
They beheld a lamp lit interior well calculated to arrest their eyes . 
The table in the long dining room had been laid for dinner when Saradine's destroyer had fallen like a stormbolt on the island . 
With a gesture of powerful impatience , Flambeau rattled at the window , wrenched it open , and put an indignant head into the lamp lit room . 
This dinner and this house and garden happen to belong to me . 
A thought flashed across Flambeau's face . 
You mean to say , he began , that the will of Prince Saradine I am Prince Saradine , said the old man , munching a salted almond . 
Father Brown , who was looking at the birds outside , jumped as if he were shot , and put in at the window a pale face like a turnip . 
You are what ? he repeated in a shrill voice . 
Paul , Prince Saradine , A vos ordres , said the venerable person politely , lifting a glass of sherry . 
I live here very quietly , being a domestic kind of fellow and for the sake of modesty I am called Mr. Paul , to distinguish me from my unfortunate brother Mr. Stephen . 
He died , I hear , recently in the garden . 
Of course , it is not my fault if enemies pursue him to this place . 
It is owing to the regrettable irregularity of his life . 
He was not a domestic character . 
He relapsed into silence , and continued to gaze at the opposite wall just above the bowed and sombre head of the woman . 
They saw plainly the family likeness that had haunted them in the dead man . 
Then his old shoulders began to heave and shake a little , as if he were choking , but his face did not alter . 
My God ! cried Flambeau after a pause , he's laughing ! Come away , said Father Brown , who was quite white . 
Come away from this house of hell . 
Let us get into an honest boat again . 
Father Brown took his cigar out of his mouth and said I suppose you can guess the whole story now ? After all , it's a primitive story . 
A man had two enemies . 
He was a wise man . 
And so he discovered that two enemies are better than one . 
I do not follow that , answered Flambeau . 
Oh , it's really simple , rejoined his friend . 
Simple , though anything but innocent . 
This squalid officer fell from beggar to blackmailer , and one ugly day he got his hold upon his brother , the prince . 
Obviously it was for no light matter , for Prince Paul Saradine was frankly fast , and had no reputation to lose as to the mere sins of society . 
In plain fact , it was a hanging matter , and Stephen literally had a rope round his brother's neck . 
He had somehow discovered the truth about the Sicilian affair , and could prove that Paul murdered old Antonelli in the mountains . 
The captain raked in the hush money heavily for ten years , until even the prince's splendid fortune began to look a little foolish . 
But Prince Saradine bore another burden besides his blood sucking brother . 
, but with the old weapons of vendetta . 
The fact is that he began to flee for his life , passing from place to place like a hunted criminal but with one relentless man upon his trail . 
That was Prince Paul's position , and by no means a pretty one . 
The more money he spent on eluding Antonelli the less he had to silence Stephen . 
The more he gave to silence Stephen the less chance there was of finally escaping Antonelli . 
Then it was that he showed himself a great man a genius like Napoleon . 
Instead of resisting his two antagonists , he surrendered suddenly to both of them . 
He gave way like a Japanese wrestler , and his foes fell prostrate before him . 
He gave up the race round the world , and he gave up his address to young Antonelli then he gave up everything to his brother . 
He sent Stephen money enough for smart clothes and easy travel , with a letter saying roughly This is all I have left . 
You have cleaned me out . 
I still have a little house in Norfolk , with servants and a cellar , and if you want more from me you must take that . 
Come and take possession if you like , and I will live there quietly as your friend or agent or anything . 
He knew that the Sicilian had never seen the Saradine brothers save , perhaps , in pictures he knew they were somewhat alike , both having grey , pointed beards . 
Then he shaved his own face and waited . 
The unhappy captain , in his new clothes , entered the house in triumph as a prince , and walked upon the Sicilian's sword . 
There was one hitch , and it is to the honour of human nature . 
Evil spirits like Saradine often blunder by never expecting the virtues of mankind . 
It was a bad minute for Prince Paul when Antonelli's chivalry proposed a formal duel , with all its possible explanations . 
It was then that I found him putting off in his boat with wild eyes . 
He was fleeing , bareheaded , in an open boat before Antonelli should learn who he was . 
But , however agitated , he was not hopeless . 
He knew the adventurer and he knew the fanatic . 
It was certain that Antonelli , the fanatic , would hold his tongue , and be hanged without telling tales of his family . 
Paul hung about on the river till he knew the fight was over . 
Then he roused the town , brought the police , saw his two vanquished enemies taken away forever , and sat down smiling to his dinner . 
Laughing , God help us ! said Flambeau with a strong shudder . 
Do they get such ideas from Satan ? He got that idea from you , answered the priest . 
God forbid ! ejaculated Flambeau . 
With an enemy on each side of him , he slipped swiftly out of the way and let them collide and kill each other . 
Flambeau tore Prince Saradine's card from the priest's hands and rent it savagely in small pieces . 
The last gleam of white card and green ink was drowned and darkened a faint and vibrant colour as of morning changed the sky , and the moon behind the grasses grew paler . 
Father , said Flambeau suddenly , do you think it was all a dream ? The priest shook his head , whether in dissent or agnosticism , but remained mute . 
The Hammer of God The little village of Bohun Beacon was perched on a hill so steep that the tall spire of its church seemed only like the peak of a small mountain . 
Wilfred Bohun was very devout , and was making his way to some austere exercises of prayer or contemplation at dawn . 
The colonel was not particular . 
The Bohuns were one of the very few aristocratic families really dating from the Middle Ages , and their pennon had actually seen Palestine . 
But it is a great mistake to suppose that such houses stand high in chivalric tradition . 
Few except the poor preserve traditions . 
Aristocrats live not in traditions but in fashions . 
The Bohuns had been Mohocks under Queen Anne and Mashers under Queen Victoria . 
Certainly there was something hardly human about the colonel's wolfish pursuit of pleasure , and his chronic resolution not to go home till morning had a touch of the hideous clarity of insomnia . 
He was a tall , fine animal , elderly , but with hair still startlingly yellow . 
He would have looked merely blonde and leonine , but his blue eyes were sunk so deep in his face that they looked black . 
They were a little too close together . 
He had very long yellow moustaches on each side of them a fold or furrow from nostril to jaw , so that a sneer seemed cut into his face . 
He was proud of appearing in such incongruous attires proud of the fact that he always made them look congruous . 
This charge was doubtful , while the man's practical piety was indubitable . 
On the hypothesis that the colonel was interested in the church he did not waste any speculations . 
There only remained the blacksmith's shop , and though the blacksmith was a Puritan and none of his people , Wilfred Bohun had heard some scandals about a beautiful and rather celebrated wife . 
He flung a suspicious look across the shed , and the colonel stood up laughing to speak to him . 
Good morning , Wilfred , he said . 
Like a good landlord I am watching sleeplessly over my people . 
I am going to call on the blacksmith . 
Wilfred looked at the ground , and said The blacksmith is out . 
He is over at Greenford . 
I know , answered the other with silent laughter that is why I am calling on him . 
Norman , said the cleric , with his eye on a pebble in the road , are you ever afraid of thunderbolts ? What do you mean ? asked the colonel . 
I know your hobby is blasphemy , retorted the religious man , stung in the one live place of his nature . 
But if you do not fear God , you have good reason to fear man . 
The elder raised his eyebrows politely . 
Fear man ? he said . 
Barnes the blacksmith is the biggest and strongest man for forty miles round , said the clergyman sternly . 
I know you are no coward or weakling , but he could throw you over the wall . 
This struck home , being true , and the lowering line by mouth and nostril darkened and deepened . 
For a moment he stood with the heavy sneer on his face . 
But in an instant Colonel Bohun had recovered his own cruel good humour and laughed , showing two dog like front teeth under his yellow moustache . 
In that case , my dear Wilfred , he said quite carelessly , it was wise for the last of the Bohuns to come out partially in armour . 
And he took off the queer round hat covered with green , showing that it was lined within with steel . 
Wilfred recognised it indeed as a light Japanese or Chinese helmet torn down from a trophy that hung in the old family hall . 
It was the first hat to hand , explained his brother airily always the nearest hat and the nearest woman . 
The blacksmith is away at Greenford , said Wilfred quietly the time of his return is unsettled . 
And with that he turned and went into the church with bowed head , crossing himself like one who wishes to be quit of an unclean spirit . 
As he entered the church , hitherto always empty at that hour , a kneeling figure rose hastily to its feet and came towards the full daylight of the doorway . 
When the curate saw it he stood still with surprise . 
For the early worshipper was none other than the village idiot , a nephew of the blacksmith , one who neither would nor could care for the church or for anything else . 
As he passed the priest , his moon calf countenance gave no hint of what he had been doing or thinking of . 
He had never been known to pray before . 
What sort of prayers was he saying now ? Extraordinary prayers surely . 
The last thing he saw was the colonel throwing pennies at the open mouth of Joe , with the serious appearance of trying to hit it . 
This ugly sunlit picture of the stupidity and cruelty of the earth sent the ascetic finally to his prayers for purification and new thoughts . 
He went up to a pew in the gallery , which brought him under a coloured window which he loved and always quieted his spirit a blue window with an angel carrying lilies . 
There he began to think less about the half wit , with his livid face and mouth like a fish . 
He began to think less of his evil brother , pacing like a lean lion in his horrible hunger . 
He sank deeper and deeper into those cold and sweet colours of silver blossoms and sapphire sky . 
In this place half an hour afterwards he was found by Gibbs , the village cobbler , who had been sent for him in some haste . 
He got to his feet with promptitude , for he knew that no small matter would have brought Gibbs into such a place at all . 
The cobbler was , as in many villages , an atheist , and his appearance in church was a shade more extraordinary than Mad Joe's . 
It was a morning of theological enigmas . 
What is it ? asked Wilfred Bohun rather stiffly , but putting out a trembling hand for his hat . 
The atheist spoke in a tone that , coming from him , was quite startlingly respectful , and even , as it were , huskily sympathetic . 
You must excuse me , sir , he said in a hoarse whisper , but we didn't think it right not to let you know at once . 
I'm afraid a rather dreadful thing has happened , sir . 
I'm afraid your brother Wilfred clenched his frail hands . 
What devilry has he done now ? he cried in voluntary passion . 
Why , sir , said the cobbler , coughing , I'm afraid he's done nothing , and won't do anything . 
I'm afraid he's done for . 
You had really better come down , sir . 
The curate followed the cobbler down a short winding stair which brought them out at an entrance rather higher than the street . 
Bohun saw the tragedy in one glance , flat underneath him like a plan . 
In the yard of the smithy were standing five or six men mostly in black , one in an inspector's uniform . 
They included the doctor , the Presbyterian minister , and the priest from the Roman Catholic chapel , to which the blacksmith's wife belonged . 
The latter was speaking to her , indeed , very rapidly , in an undertone , as she , a magnificent woman with red gold hair , was sobbing blindly on a bench . 
Between these two groups , and just clear of the main heap of hammers , lay a man in evening dress , spread eagled and flat on his face . 
Wilfred Bohun gave but one glance , and ran down the steps into the yard . 
The doctor , who was the family physician , saluted him , but he scarcely took any notice . 
He could only stammer out My brother is dead . 
What do you mean ? asked Wilfred , with a white face . 
It's plain enough , answered Gibbs . 
There is only one man for forty miles round that could have struck such a blow as that , and he's the man that had most reason to . 
Mr. Gibbs says that only one man in this district could have done it . 
I should have said myself that nobody could have done it . 
A shudder of superstition went through the slight figure of the curate . 
I can hardly understand , he said . 
Mr. Bohun , said the doctor in a low voice , metaphors literally fail me . 
It is inadequate to say that the skull was smashed to bits like an eggshell . 
Fragments of bone were driven into the body and the ground like bullets into a mud wall . 
It was the hand of a giant . 
He was silent a moment , looking grimly through his glasses then he added The thing has one advantage that it clears most people of suspicion at one stroke . 
If you or I or any normally made man in the country were accused of this crime , we should be acquitted as an infant would be acquitted of stealing the Nelson column . 
That's what I say , repeated the cobbler obstinately there's only one man that could have done it , and he's the man that would have done it . 
Where's Simeon Barnes , the blacksmith ? He's over at Greenford , faltered the curate . 
More likely over in France , muttered the cobbler . 
No he is in neither of those places , said a small and colourless voice , which came from the little Roman priest who had joined the group . 
As a matter of fact , he is coming up the road at this moment . 
The little priest was not an interesting man to look at , having stubbly brown hair and a round and stolid face . 
But if he had been as splendid as Apollo no one would have looked at him at that moment . 
He was a bony and gigantic man , with deep , dark , sinister eyes and a dark chin beard . 
He was walking and talking quietly with two other men and though he was never specially cheerful , he seemed quite at his ease . 
My God ! cried the atheistic cobbler , and there's the hammer he did it with . 
No , said the inspector , a sensible looking man with a sandy moustache , speaking for the first time . 
There's the hammer he did it with over there by the church wall . 
We have left it and the body exactly as they are . 
All glanced round and the short priest went across and looked down in silence at the tool where it lay . 
After a silence the short priest spoke without looking up , and there was a new note in his dull voice . 
Mr. Gibbs was hardly right , he said , in saying that there is no mystery . 
There is at least the mystery of why so big a man should attempt so big a blow with so little a hammer . 
Oh , never mind that , cried Gibbs , in a fever . 
What are we to do with Simeon Barnes ? Leave him alone , said the priest quietly . 
He is coming here of himself . 
I know those two men with him . 
They are very good fellows from Greenford , and they have come over about the Presbyterian chapel . 
Even as he spoke the tall smith swung round the corner of the church , and strode into his own yard . 
Then he stood there quite still , and the hammer fell from his hand . 
The inspector , who had preserved impenetrable propriety , immediately went up to him . 
I won't ask you , Mr. Barnes , he said , whether you know anything about what has happened here . 
You are not bound to say . 
I hope you don't know , and that you will be able to prove it . 
But I must go through the form of arresting you in the King's name for the murder of Colonel Norman Bohun . 
You are not bound to say anything , said the cobbler in officious excitement . 
They've got to prove everything . 
They haven't proved yet that it is Colonel Bohun , with the head all smashed up like that . 
That won't wash , said the doctor aside to the priest . 
That's out of the detective stories . 
I was the colonel's medical man , and I knew his body better than he did . 
He had very fine hands , but quite peculiar ones . 
The second and third fingers were the same length . 
Oh , that's the colonel right enough . 
As he glanced at the brained corpse upon the ground the iron eyes of the motionless blacksmith followed them and rested there also . 
Is Colonel Bohun dead ? said the smith quite calmly . 
Don't say anything ! Oh , don't say anything , cried the atheist cobbler , dancing about in an ecstasy of admiration of the English legal system . 
For no man is such a legalist as the good Secularist . 
The blacksmith turned on him over his shoulder the august face of a fanatic . 
It's well for you infidels to dodge like foxes because the world's law favours you , he said but God guards His own in His pocket , as you shall see this day . 
Then he pointed to the colonel and said When did this dog die in his sins ? Moderate your language , said the doctor . 
Moderate the Bible's language , and I'll moderate mine . 
When did he die ? I saw him alive at six o'clock this morning , stammered Wilfred Bohun . 
God is good , said the smith . 
Mr. Inspector , I have not the slightest objection to being arrested . 
It is you who may object to arresting me . 
I don't mind leaving the court without a stain on my character . 
You do mind perhaps leaving the court with a bad set back in your career . 
In Greenford itself twenty people could swear to me for all that time . 
If I were a heathen , Mr. Inspector , I would let you walk on to your downfall . 
But as a Christian man I feel bound to give you your chance , and ask you whether you will hear my alibi now or in court . 
The inspector seemed for the first time disturbed , and said , Of course I should be glad to clear you altogether now . 
The smith walked out of his yard with the same long and easy stride , and returned to his two friends from Greenford , who were indeed friends of nearly everyone present . 
Each of them said a few words which no one ever thought of disbelieving . 
When they had spoken , the innocence of Simeon stood up as solid as the great church above them . 
One of those silences struck the group which are more strange and insufferable than any speech . 
Madly , in order to make conversation , the curate said to the Catholic priest You seem very much interested in that hammer , Father Brown . 
Yes , I am , said Father Brown why is it such a small hammer ? The doctor swung round on him . 
It is not a question of force or courage between the sexes . 
It's a question of lifting power in the shoulders . 
A bold woman could commit ten murders with a light hammer and never turn a hair . 
She could not kill a beetle with a heavy one . 
Wilfred Bohun was staring at him with a sort of hypnotised horror , while Father Brown listened with his head a little on one side , really interested and attentive . 
Who knows what insolence or treachery he had shown her look there ! He made a momentary gesture towards the red haired woman on the bench . 
She had lifted her head at last and the tears were drying on her splendid face . 
But the eyes were fixed on the corpse with an electric glare that had in it something of idiocy . 
You are like so many doctors , he said your mental science is really suggestive . 
It is your physical science that is utterly impossible . 
I agree that the woman wants to kill the co respondent much more than the petitioner does . 
And I agree that a woman will always pick up a small hammer instead of a big one . 
But the difficulty is one of physical impossibility . 
No woman ever born could have smashed a man's skull out flat like that . 
Then he added reflectively , after a pause These people haven't grasped the whole of it . 
The man was actually wearing an iron helmet , and the blow scattered it like broken glass . 
Silence held them all up again , and then the doctor said rather sulkily Well , I may be wrong there are objections to everything . 
But I stick to the main point . 
No man but an idiot would pick up that little hammer if he could use a big hammer . 
With that the lean and quivering hands of Wilfred Bohun went up to his head and seemed to clutch his scanty yellow hair . 
After an instant they dropped , and he cried That was the word I wanted you have said the word . 
Then he continued , mastering his discomposure The words you said were , No man but an idiot would pick up the small hammer . 
Yes , said the doctor . 
Well ? Well , said the curate , no man but an idiot did . 
The rest stared at him with eyes arrested and riveted , and he went on in a febrile and feminine agitation . 
I am a priest , he cried unsteadily , and a priest should be no shedder of blood . 
I I mean that he should bring no one to the gallows . 
And I thank God that I see the criminal clearly now because he is a criminal who cannot be brought to the gallows . 
You will not denounce him ? inquired the doctor . 
He would not be hanged if I did denounce him , answered Wilfred with a wild but curiously happy smile . 
When I went into the church this morning I found a madman praying there that poor Joe , who has been wrong all his life . 
God knows what he prayed but with such strange folk it is not incredible to suppose that their prayers are all upside down . 
Very likely a lunatic would pray before killing a man . 
When I last saw poor Joe he was with my brother . 
My brother was mocking him . 
By Jove ! cried the doctor , this is talking at last . 
But how do you explain The Rev . 
Wilfred was almost trembling with the excitement of his own glimpse of the truth . 
Don't you see don't you see , he cried feverishly that is the only theory that covers both the queer things , that answers both the riddles . 
The two riddles are the little hammer and the big blow . 
The smith might have struck the big blow , but would not have chosen the little hammer . 
His wife would have chosen the little hammer , but she could not have struck the big blow . 
But the madman might have done both . 
As for the little hammer why , he was mad and might have picked up anything . 
When silence had fallen he said with marked respect Mr. Bohun , yours is the only theory yet propounded which holds water every way and is essentially unassailable . 
I think , therefore , that you deserve to be told , on my positive knowledge , that it is not the true one . 
And with that the old little man walked away and stared again at the hammer . 
That fellow seems to know more than he ought to , whispered the doctor peevishly to Wilfred . 
Those popish priests are deucedly sly . 
No , no , said Bohun , with a sort of wild fatigue . 
The group of the two clerics and the doctor had fallen away from the more official group containing the inspector and the man he had arrested . 
Now , however , that their own party had broken up , they heard voices from the others . 
The priest looked up quietly and then looked down again as he heard the blacksmith say in a loud voice I hope I've convinced you , Mr. Inspector . 
I'm a strong man , as you say , but I couldn't have flung my hammer bang here from Greenford . 
My hammer hasn't got wings that it should come flying half a mile over hedges and fields . 
The inspector laughed amicably and said No , I think you can be considered out of it , though it's one of the rummiest coincidences I ever saw . 
I can only ask you to give us all the assistance you can in finding a man as big and strong as yourself . 
Then , seeing the scared eyes turn towards his wife on the bench , he put his huge hand on her shoulder and said Nor a woman either . 
What do you mean ? asked the inspector jocularly . 
Wilfred made a sudden forward movement and peered at him with burning eyes . 
I believe that One who walks invisible in every house defended the honour of mine , and laid the defiler dead before the door of it . 
I believe the force in that blow was just the force there is in earthquakes , and no force less . 
Wilfred said , with a voice utterly undescribable I told Norman myself to beware of the thunderbolt . 
That agent is outside my jurisdiction , said the inspector with a slight smile . 
You are not outside His , answered the smith see you to it , and , turning his broad back , he went into the house . 
The shaken Wilfred was led away by Father Brown , who had an easy and friendly way with him . 
Let us get out of this horrid place , Mr. Bohun , he said . 
May I look inside your church ? I hear it's one of the oldest in England . 
We take some interest , you know , he added with a comical grimace , in old English churches . 
Wilfred Bohun did not smile , for humour was never his strong point . 
But he nodded rather eagerly , being only too ready to explain the Gothic splendours to someone more likely to be sympathetic than the Presbyterian blacksmith or the atheist cobbler . 
By all means , he said let us go in at this side . 
And he led the way into the high side entrance at the top of the flight of steps . 
Sir , said the physician harshly , you appear to know some secrets in this black business . 
But if you think I have been discourteously reticent with you or anyone , I will go to the extreme limit of my custom . 
I will give you two very large hints . 
Well , sir ? said the doctor gloomily . 
First , said Father Brown quietly , the thing is quite in your own province . 
It is a matter of physical science . 
The blacksmith is mistaken , not perhaps in saying that the blow was divine , but certainly in saying that it came by a miracle . 
It was no miracle , doctor , except in so far as man is himself a miracle , with his strange and wicked and yet half heroic heart . 
The force that smashed that skull was a force well known to scientists one of the most frequently debated of the laws of nature . 
The doctor , who was looking at him with frowning intentness , only said And the other hint ? The other hint is this , said the priest . 
Well , added Father Brown , with a broad smile , that fairy tale was the nearest thing to the real truth that has been said today . 
And with that he turned his back and stumped up the steps after the curate . 
The little Latin priest explored and admired everything exhaustively , talking cheerfully but in a low voice all the time . 
Come up here , Mr. Bohun , he called . 
The air will do you good . 
Clear and square , but quite small beneath them , was the blacksmith's yard , where the inspector still stood taking notes and the corpse still lay like a smashed fly . 
Might be the map of the world , mightn't it ? said Father Brown . 
Yes , said Bohun very gravely , and nodded his head . 
Immediately beneath and about them the lines of the Gothic building plunged outwards into the void with a sickening swiftness akin to suicide . 
This church was hewn out of ancient and silent stone , bearded with old fungoids and stained with the nests of birds . 
Details of stone , enormous by their proximity , were relieved against a pattern of fields and farms , pygmy in their distance . 
A carved bird or beast at a corner seemed like some vast walking or flying dragon wasting the pastures and villages below . 
I think there is something rather dangerous about standing on these high places even to pray , said Father Brown . 
Heights were made to be looked at , not to be looked from . 
Do you mean that one may fall over , asked Wilfred . 
I mean that one's soul may fall if one's body doesn't , said the other priest . 
I scarcely understand you , remarked Bohun indistinctly . 
Look at that blacksmith , for instance , went on Father Brown calmly a good man , but not a Christian hard , imperious , unforgiving . 
Well , his Scotch religion was made up by men who prayed on hills and high crags , and learnt to look down on the world more than to look up at heaven . 
Humility is the mother of giants . 
One sees great things from the valley only small things from the peak . 
But he he didn't do it , said Bohun tremulously . 
No , said the other in an odd voice we know he didn't do it . 
After a moment he resumed , looking tranquilly out over the plain with his pale grey eyes . 
And once in one of those dizzy places , where the whole world seemed to turn under him like a wheel , his brain turned also , and he fancied he was God . 
So that , though he was a good man , he committed a great crime . 
Wilfred's face was turned away , but his bony hands turned blue and white as they tightened on the parapet of stone . 
He thought it was given to him to judge the world and strike down the sinner . 
He would never have had such a thought if he had been kneeling with other men upon a floor . 
But he saw all men walking about like insects . 
He saw one especially strutting just below him , insolent and evident by a bright green hat a poisonous insect . 
Rooks cawed round the corners of the belfry but there was no other sound till Father Brown went on . 
See , the inspector is strutting just below us in the smithy . 
If I were to toss a pebble over this parapet it would be something like a bullet by the time it struck him . 
If I were to drop a hammer even a small hammer Wilfred Bohun threw one leg over the parapet , and Father Brown had him in a minute by the collar . 
Not by that door , he said quite gently that door leads to hell . 
Bohun staggered back against the wall , and stared at him with frightful eyes . 
How do you know all this ? he cried . 
Are you a devil ? I am a man , answered Father Brown gravely and therefore have all devils in my heart . 
Listen to me , he said after a short pause . 
I know what you did at least , I can guess the great part of it . 
Recoiling , you thrust it under your buttoned coat instead , and rushed into the church . 
Then something snapped in your soul , and you let God's thunderbolt fall . 
I say I know all this but no one else shall know it . 
The next step is for you I shall take no more steps I will seal this with the seal of confession . 
If you ask me why , there are many reasons , and only one that concerns you . 
I leave things to you because you have not yet gone very far wrong , as assassins go . 
You did not help to fix the crime on the smith when it was easy or on his wife , when that was easy . 
You tried to fix it on the imbecile because you knew that he could not suffer . 
That was one of the gleams that it is my business to find in assassins . 
And now come down into the village , and go your own way as free as the wind for I have said my last word . 
They went down the winding stairs in utter silence , and came out into the sunlight by the smithy . 
Wilfred Bohun carefully unlatched the wooden gate of the yard , and going up to the inspector , said I wish to give myself up I have killed my brother . 
The official description of the tall man was M. Hercule Flambeau , private detective , and he was going to his new offices in a new pile of flats facing the Abbey entrance . 
The official description of the short man was the Reverend J. Brown , attached to St . 
Francis Xavier's Church , Camberwell , and he was coming from a Camberwell deathbed to see the new offices of his friend . 
The building was American in its sky scraping altitude , and American also in the oiled elaboration of its machinery of telephones and lifts . 
But the first glance at the new tower of flats caught something much more arresting . 
Save for a few relics of scaffolding , the one glaring object was erected outside the office just above Flambeau's . 
It was an enormous gilt effigy of the human eye , surrounded with rays of gold , and taking up as much room as two or three of the office windows . 
What on earth is that ? asked Father Brown , and stood still . 
Oh , a new religion , said Flambeau , laughing one of those new religions that forgive your sins by saying you never had any . 
Rather like Christian Science , I should think . 
has taken the flat just above me . 
I have two lady typewriters underneath me , and this enthusiastic old humbug on top . 
He calls himself the New Priest of Apollo , and he worships the sun . 
Let him look out , said Father Brown . 
The sun was the cruellest of all the gods . 
Their two great symbols are the sun and the open eye for they say that if a man were really healthy he could stare at the sun . 
If a man were really healthy , said Father Brown , he would not bother to stare at it . 
Well , that's all I can tell you about the new religion , went on Flambeau carelessly . 
It claims , of course , that it can cure all physical diseases . 
Can it cure the one spiritual disease ? asked Father Brown , with a serious curiosity . 
And what is the one spiritual disease ? asked Flambeau , smiling . 
Oh , thinking one is quite well , said his friend . 
Flambeau was more interested in the quiet little office below him than in the flamboyant temple above . 
He was a lucid Southerner , incapable of conceiving himself as anything but a Catholic or an atheist and new religions of a bright and pallid sort were not much in his line . 
But humanity was always in his line , especially when it was good looking moreover , the ladies downstairs were characters in their way . 
The office was kept by two sisters , both slight and dark , one of them tall and striking . 
She had a dark , eager and aquiline profile , and was one of those women whom one always thinks of in profile , as of the clean cut edge of some weapon . 
She seemed to cleave her way through life . 
She had eyes of startling brilliancy , but it was the brilliancy of steel rather than of diamonds and her straight , slim figure was a shade too stiff for its grace . 
Her younger sister was like her shortened shadow , a little greyer , paler , and more insignificant . 
They both wore a business like black , with little masculine cuffs and collars . 
There are thousands of such curt , strenuous ladies in the offices of London , but the interest of these lay rather in their real than their apparent position . 
had driven her to what she considered a harsher and a higher existence . 
She had not , indeed , surrendered her money in that there would have been a romantic or monkish abandon quite alien to her masterful utilitarianism . 
She held her wealth , she would say , for use upon practical social objects . 
How far Joan , her sister and partner , shared this slightly prosaic idealism no one could be very sure . 
But she followed her leader with a dog like affection which was somehow more attractive , with its touch of tragedy , than the hard , high spirits of the elder . 
For Pauline Stacey had nothing to say to tragedy she was understood to deny its existence . 
Her rigid rapidity and cold impatience had amused Flambeau very much on the first occasion of his entering the flats . 
He had lingered outside the lift in the entrance hall waiting for the lift boy , who generally conducts strangers to the various floors . 
But this bright eyed falcon of a girl had openly refused to endure such official delay . 
She said sharply that she knew all about the lift , and was not dependent on boys or men either . 
Her bright black eyes blazed with abstract anger against those who rebuke mechanic science and ask for the return of romance . 
Everyone , she said , ought to be able to manage machines , just as she could manage the lift . 
She certainly had a temper , of a snappy , practical sort the gestures of her thin , elegant hands were abrupt or even destructive . 
She was already in the rapids of an ethical tirade about the sickly medical notions and the morbid admission of weakness implied in such an apparatus . 
She dared her sister to bring such artificial , unhealthy rubbish into the place again . 
She asked if she was expected to wear wooden legs or false hair or glass eyes and as she spoke her eyes sparkled like the terrible crystal . 
That is so different , said Pauline Stacey , loftily . 
That is high and splendid that is really science . 
But these nasty props and plasters the doctors sell why , they are just badges of poltroonery . 
Doctors stick on legs and arms as if we were born cripples and sick slaves . 
Your eyes , said Flambeau , with a foreign bow , will dazzle the sun . 
He took pleasure in complimenting this strange stiff beauty , partly because it threw her a little off her balance . 
For , little as he knew or cared about the new religion of Kalon , he had heard of his special notion about sun gazing . 
He soon discovered that the spiritual bond between the floors above and below him was close and increasing . 
The man who called himself Kalon was a magnificent creature , worthy , in a physical sense , to be the pontiff of Apollo . 
He was nearly as tall even as Flambeau , and very much better looking , with a golden beard , strong blue eyes , and a mane flung back like a lion's . 
In structure he was the blonde beast of Nietzsche , but all this animal beauty was heightened , brightened and softened by genuine intellect and spirituality . 
If he looked like one of the great Saxon kings , he looked like one of the kings that were also saints . 
All this vulgarity could not take away from the man called Kalon the vivid oppression and inspiration that came from his soul and body . 
When all was said , a man in the presence of this quack did feel in the presence of a great man . 
Flambeau had seen quite enough of these daily salutations of Phoebus , and plunged into the porch of the tall building without even looking for his clerical friend to follow . 
He was already in the middle of it his eyes were fixed upon the flaming disc . 
That was perhaps the most startling difference between even these two far divided men . 
Father Brown could not look at anything without blinking but the priest of Apollo could look on the blaze at noon without a quiver of the eyelid . 
O sun , cried the prophet , O star that art too great to be allowed among the stars ! O fountain that flowest quietly in that secret spot that is called space . 
White Father of all white unwearied things , white flames and white flowers and white peaks . 
Five people rushed into the gate of the mansions as three people rushed out , and for an instant they all deafened each other . 
The sense of some utterly abrupt horror seemed for a moment to fill half the street with bad news bad news that was all the worse because no one knew what it was . 
Two figures remained still after the crash of commotion the fair priest of Apollo on the balcony above , and the ugly priest of Christ below him . 
At last the tall figure and titanic energy of Flambeau appeared in the doorway of the mansions and dominated the little mob . 
Father Brown found Flambeau and some six other people standing round the enclosed space into which the lift commonly descended . 
But the lift had not descended . 
Something else had descended something that ought to have come by a lift . 
For the last four minutes Flambeau had looked down on it had seen the brained and bleeding figure of that beautiful woman who denied the existence of tragedy . 
He had never had the slightest doubt that it was Pauline Stacey and , though he had sent for a doctor , he had not the slightest doubt that she was dead . 
He could not remember for certain whether he had liked her or disliked her there was so much both to like and dislike . 
But she had been a person to him , and the unbearable pathos of details and habit stabbed him with all the small daggers of bereavement . 
He remembered her pretty face and priggish speeches with a sudden secret vividness which is all the bitterness of death . 
Was it suicide ? With so insolent an optimist it seemed impossible . 
A voice , habitually heavy , quiet and full , assured him that Kalon for the last fifteen minutes had been away up on his balcony worshipping his god . 
We have half an hour before the police will move . 
Having entered that , he abruptly returned with a new and white face to his friend . 
Her sister , he said , with an unpleasant seriousness , her sister seems to have gone out for a walk . 
Or , she may have gone up to the office of that sun man , he said . 
If I were you I should just verify that , and then let us all talk it over in your office . 
No , he added suddenly , as if remembering something , shall I ever get over that stupidity of mine ? Of course , in their office downstairs . 
He did not wait very long . 
In about four minutes three figures descended the stairs , alike only in their solemnity . 
Miss Joan Stacey , dark , with a drawn face and hair prematurely touched with grey , walked straight to her own desk and set out her papers with a practical flap . 
The mere action rallied everyone else to sanity . 
If Miss Joan Stacey was a criminal , she was a cool one . 
Father Brown regarded her for some time with an odd little smile , and then , without taking his eyes off her , addressed himself to somebody else . 
Prophet , he said , presumably addressing Kalon , I wish you would tell me a lot about your religion . 
I shall be proud to do it , said Kalon , inclining his still crowned head , but I am not sure that I understand . 
But , for all that , we can make some difference between a man who insults his quite clear conscience and a man with a conscience more or less clouded with sophistries . 
Now , do you really think that murder is wrong at all ? Is this an accusation ? asked Kalon very quietly . 
No , answered Brown , equally gently , it is the speech for the defence . 
In the long and startled stillness of the room the prophet of Apollo slowly rose and really it was like the rising of the sun . 
He filled that room with his light and life in such a manner that a man felt he could as easily have filled Salisbury Plain . 
We meet at last , Caiaphas , said the prophet . 
Your church and mine are the only realities on this earth . 
I adore the sun , and you the darkening of the sun you are the priest of the dying and I of the living God . 
Your present work of suspicion and slander is worthy of your coat and creed . 
All your church is but a black police you are only spies and detectives seeking to tear from men confessions of guilt , whether by treachery or torture . 
You would convict men of crime , I would convict them of innocence . 
You would convince them of sin , I would convince them of virtue . 
Reader of the books of evil , one more word before I blow away your baseless nightmares for ever . 
Not even faintly could you understand how little I care whether you can convict me or no . 
The things you call disgrace and horrible hanging are to me no more than an ogre in a child's toy book to a man once grown up . 
You said you were offering the speech for the defence . 
I care so little for the cloudland of this life that I will offer you the speech for the prosecution . 
There is but one thing that can be said against me in this matter , and I will say it myself . 
She and I walked another world from yours , and trod palaces of crystal while you were plodding through tunnels and corridors of brick . 
But the second point is stronger I do not grudge it you . 
Come , where are the handcuffs ? Do you suppose I care what foolish things you do with me ? Penal servitude will only be like waiting for her at a wayside station . 
The gallows will only be going to her in a headlong car . 
He spoke with the brain shaking authority of an orator , and Flambeau and Joan Stacey stared at him in amazed admiration . 
Father Brown's face seemed to express nothing but extreme distress he looked at the ground with one wrinkle of pain across his forehead . 
The prophet of the sun leaned easily against the mantelpiece and resumed In a few words I have put before you the whole case against me the only possible case against me . 
In fewer words still I will blow it to pieces , so that not a trace of it remains . 
As to whether I have committed this crime , the truth is in one sentence I could not have committed this crime . 
Pauline Stacey fell from this floor to the ground at five minutes past twelve . 
will swear that he sat in my outer office all the morning , and that no communication passed through . 
No one ever had so complete an alibi I could subpoena half Westminster . 
I think you had better put the handcuffs away again . 
The case is at an end . 
But last of all , that no breath of this idiotic suspicion remain in the air , I will tell you all you want to know . 
I believe I do know how my unhappy friend came by her death . 
You can , if you choose , blame me for it , or my faith and philosophy at least but you certainly cannot lock me up . 
It is but a part of that general conquest of matter which is the main element in our occult wisdom . 
Poor Pauline was of an impulsive and ambitious temper . 
I solemnly believe that in some ecstasy of noble thoughts she attempted the miracle . 
Her will , or faith , must have failed her at the crucial instant , and the lower law of matter had its horrible revenge . 
There is the whole story , gentlemen , very sad and , as you think , very presumptuous and wicked , but certainly not criminal or in any way connected with me . 
In the short hand of the police courts , you had better call it suicide . 
I shall always call it heroic failure for the advance of science and the slow scaling of heaven . 
It was the first time Flambeau had ever seen Father Brown vanquished . 
He still sat looking at the ground , with a painful and corrugated brow , as if in shame . 
I wonder where the poor lady left it . 
It will be over there on her desk by the door , I think , said Kalon , with that massive innocence of manner that seemed to acquit him wholly . 
She told me specially she would write it this morning , and I actually saw her writing as I went up in the lift to my own room . 
Was her door open then ? asked the priest , with his eye on the corner of the matting . 
Yes , said Kalon calmly . 
Ah ! it has been open ever since , said the other , and resumed his silent study of the mat . 
There is a paper over here , said the grim Miss Joan , in a somewhat singular voice . 
She had passed over to her sister's desk by the doorway , and was holding a sheet of blue foolscap in her hand . 
There was a sour smile on her face that seemed unfit for such a scene or occasion , and Flambeau looked at her with a darkening brow . 
Kalon the prophet stood away from the paper with that loyal unconsciousness that had carried him through . 
But Flambeau took it out of the lady's hand , and read it with the utmost amazement . 
Flambeau , in wonder , handed this truncated testament to his clerical friend , who glanced at it and silently gave it to the priest of the sun . 
What monkey tricks have you been playing here ? he cried . 
That's not all Pauline wrote . 
They were startled to hear him speak in quite a new voice , with a Yankee shrillness in it all his grandeur and good English had fallen from him like a cloak . 
That is the only thing on her desk , said Joan , and confronted him steadily with the same smile of evil favour . 
Of a sudden the man broke out into blasphemies and cataracts of incredulous words . 
There was something shocking about the dropping of his mask it was like a man's real face falling off . 
See here ! he cried in broad American , when he was breathless with cursing , I may be an adventurer , but I guess you're a murderess . 
Yes , gentlemen , here's your death explained , and without any levitation . 
Sakes ! I reckon we want the handcuffs after all . 
Mr. Flambeau will tell you that he found me there . 
Then how did she die ? asked Flambeau impatiently . 
But she was alone , objected the detective . 
She was murdered when she was all alone , answered the priest . 
What I want to know , cried Kalon , with an oath , is when the police are coming for this bloody and wicked sister . 
The hierophant of the sun god made an effort to climb back on his pedestal . 
It is not the mere money , he cried , though that would equip the cause throughout the world . 
It is also my beloved one's wishes . 
To Pauline all this was holy . 
In Pauline's eyes Father Brown suddenly sprang erect , so that his chair fell over flat behind him . 
He was deathly pale , yet he seemed fired with a hope his eyes shone . 
That's it ! he cried in a clear voice . 
That's the way to begin . 
In Pauline's eyes The tall prophet retreated before the tiny priest in an almost mad disorder . 
What do you mean ? How dare you ? he cried repeatedly . 
In Pauline's eyes , repeated the priest , his own shining more and more . 
Go on in God's name , go on . 
The foulest crime the fiends ever prompted feels lighter after confession and I implore you to confess . 
Go on , go on in Pauline's eyes Let me go , you devil ! thundered Kalon , struggling like a giant in bonds . 
Who are you , you cursed spy , to weave your spiders' webs round me , and peep and peer ? Let me go . 
Shall I stop him ? asked Flambeau , bounding towards the exit , for Kalon had already thrown the door wide open . 
No let him pass , said Father Brown , with a strange deep sigh that seemed to come from the depths of the universe . 
Let Cain pass by , for he belongs to God . 
There was a long drawn silence in the room when he had left it , which was to Flambeau's fierce wits one long agony of interrogation . 
Miss Joan Stacey very coolly tidied up the papers on her desk . 
Father , said Flambeau at last , it is my duty , not my curiosity only it is my duty to find out , if I can , who committed the crime . 
Which crime ? asked Father Brown . 
The one we are dealing with , of course , replied his impatient friend . 
We are dealing with two crimes , said Brown , crimes of very different weight and by very different criminals . 
Miss Joan Stacey , having collected and put away her papers , proceeded to lock up her drawer . 
Father Brown went on , noticing her as little as she noticed him . 
The two crimes , he observed , were committed against the same weakness of the same person , in a struggle for her money . 
The author of the larger crime found himself thwarted by the smaller crime the author of the smaller crime got the money . 
Oh , don't go on like a lecturer , groaned Flambeau put it in a few words . 
I can put it in one word , answered his friend . 
The truth is one word , and a short one , said Father Brown . 
Blind ! repeated Flambeau , and rose slowly to his whole huge stature . 
She was subject to it by blood , Brown proceeded . 
Her sister would have started eyeglasses if Pauline would have let her but it was her special philosophy or fad that one must not encourage such diseases by yielding to them . 
She would not admit the cloud or she tried to dispel it by will . 
So her eyes got worse and worse with straining but the worst strain was to come . 
It came with this precious prophet , or whatever he calls himself , who taught her to stare at the hot sun with the naked eye . 
It was called accepting Apollo . 
Oh , if these new pagans would only be old pagans , they would be a little wiser ! The old pagans knew that mere naked Nature worship must have a cruel side . 
They knew that the eye of Apollo can blast and blind . 
There was a pause , and the priest went on in a gentle and even broken voice . 
Whether or no that devil deliberately made her blind , there is no doubt that he deliberately killed her through her blindness . 
The very simplicity of the crime is sickening . 
You know he and she went up and down in those lifts without official help you know also how smoothly and silently the lifts slide . 
Kalon brought the lift to the girl's landing , and saw her , through the open door , writing in her slow , sightless way the will she had promised him . 
He called out to her cheerily that he had the lift ready for her , and she was to come out when she was ready . 
He ought to have got half a million by pressing that button , continued the little father , in the colourless voice in which he talked of such horrors . 
It went smash because there happened to be another person who also wanted the money , and who also knew the secret about poor Pauline's sight . 
Joan had signed first , saying Pauline could finish it later , with a typical feminine contempt for legal forms . 
Therefore , Joan wanted her sister to sign the will without real witnesses . 
Why ? I thought of the blindness , and felt sure she had wanted Pauline to sign in solitude because she had wanted her not to sign at all . 
People like the Staceys always use fountain pens but this was specially natural to Pauline . 
By habit and her strong will and memory she could still write almost as well as if she saw but she could not tell when her pen needed dipping . 
Therefore , her fountain pens were carefully filled by her sister all except this fountain pen . 
This was carefully not filled by her sister the remains of the ink held out for a few lines and then failed altogether . 
And the prophet lost five hundred thousand pounds and committed one of the most brutal and brilliant murders in human history for nothing . 
Flambeau went to the open door and heard the official police ascending the stairs . 
He turned and said You must have followed everything devilish close to have traced the crime to Kalon in ten minutes . 
Father Brown gave a sort of start . 
Oh ! to him , he said . 
No I had to follow rather close to find out about Miss Joan and the fountain pen . 
But I knew Kalon was the criminal before I came into the front door . 
You must be joking ! cried Flambeau . 
I'm quite serious , answered the priest . 
I tell you I knew he had done it , even before I knew what he had done . 
But why ? These pagan stoics , said Brown reflectively , always fail by their strength . 
There came a crash and a scream down the street , and the priest of Apollo did not start or look round . 
I did not know what it was . 
But I knew that he was expecting it . 
The Sign of the Broken Sword The thousand arms of the forest were grey , and its million fingers silver . 
In a sky of dark green blue like slate the stars were bleak and brilliant like splintered ice . 
All that thickly wooded and sparsely tenanted countryside was stiff with a bitter and brittle frost . 
The black hollows between the trunks of the trees looked like bottomless , black caverns of that Scandinavian hell , a hell of incalculable cold . 
Even the square stone tower of the church looked northern to the point of heathenry , as if it were some barbaric tower among the sea rocks of Iceland . 
It was a queer night for anyone to explore a churchyard . 
But , on the other hand , perhaps it was worth exploring . 
It rose abruptly out of the ashen wastes of forest in a sort of hump or shoulder of green turf that looked grey in the starlight . 
Most of the graves were on a slant , and the path leading up to the church was as steep as a staircase . 
On the top of the hill , in the one flat and prominent place , was the monument for which the place was famous . 
The venerable face was bearded , or rather whiskered , in the old , heavy Colonel Newcome fashion . 
The uniform , though suggested with the few strokes of simplicity , was that of modern war . 
By his right side lay a sword , of which the tip was broken off on the left side lay a Bible . 
In this freezing darkness of mid winter one would think he might be left alone with the stars . 
Nevertheless , in the stillness of those stiff woods a wooden gate creaked , and two dim figures dressed in black climbed up the little path to the tomb . 
They went up to the great graven tomb of the historic warrior , and stood for a few minutes staring at it . 
There was no human , perhaps no living , thing for a wide circle and a morbid fancy might well have wondered if they were human themselves . 
In any case , the beginning of their conversation might have seemed strange . 
After the first silence the small man said to the other Where does a wise man hide a pebble ? And the tall man answered in a low voice On the beach . 
The small man nodded , and after a short silence said Where does a wise man hide a leaf ? And the other answered In the forest . 
He stamped his cold feet for a second or two , and then said I'm not thinking of that at all , but of something else something rather peculiar . 
Just strike a match , will you ? The big man fumbled in his pocket , and soon a scratch and a flare painted gold the whole flat side of the monument . 
On it was cut in black letters the well known words which so many Americans had reverently read Sacred to the Memory of General Sir Arthur St . 
Clare , Hero and Martyr , who Always Vanquished his Enemies and Always Spared Them , and Was Treacherously Slain by Them At Last . 
May God in Whom he Trusted both Reward and Revenge him . 
The match burnt the big man's fingers , blackened , and dropped . 
He was about to strike another , but his small companion stopped him . 
That's all right , Flambeau , old man I saw what I wanted . 
Or , rather , I didn't see what I didn't want . 
And now we must walk a mile and a half along the road to the next inn , and I will try to tell you all about it . 
For Heaven knows a man should have a fire and ale when he dares tell such a story . 
They descended the precipitous path , they relatched the rusty gate , and set off at a stamping , ringing walk down the frozen forest road . 
They had gone a full quarter of a mile before the smaller man spoke again . 
He said Yes the wise man hides a pebble on the beach . 
But what does he do if there is no beach ? Do you know anything of that great St . 
Clare trouble ? I know nothing about English generals , Father Brown , answered the large man , laughing , though a little about English policemen . 
I only know that you have dragged me a precious long dance to all the shrines of this fellow , whoever he is . 
One would think he got buried in six different places . 
I've seen a memorial to General St . 
I've seen a ramping equestrian statue of General St . 
I've seen a medallion of St . 
Clare in the street he was born in , and another in the street he lived in and now you drag me after dark to his coffin in the village churchyard . 
I am beginning to be a bit tired of his magnificent personality , especially as I don't in the least know who he was . 
What are you hunting for in all these crypts and effigies ? I am only looking for one word , said Father Brown . 
A word that isn't there . 
Well , asked Flambeau are you going to tell me anything about it ? I must divide it into two parts , remarked the priest . 
First there is what everybody knows and then there is what I know . 
Now , what everybody knows is short and plain enough . 
It is also entirely wrong . 
Right you are , said the big man called Flambeau cheerfully . 
Let's begin at the wrong end . 
Let's begin with what everybody knows , which isn't true . 
Clare was a great and successful English general . 
It knows that after splendid yet careful campaigns both in India and Africa he was in command against Brazil when the great Brazilian patriot Olivier issued his ultimatum . 
It knows that on that occasion St . 
Clare with a very small force attacked Olivier with a very large one , and was captured after heroic resistance . 
And it knows that after his capture , and to the abhorrence of the civilised world , St . 
Clare was hanged on the nearest tree . 
He was found swinging there after the Brazilians had retired , with his broken sword hung round his neck . 
And that popular story is untrue ? suggested Flambeau . 
No , said his friend quietly , that story is quite true , so far as it goes . 
Then he bit his finger reflectively and said Why , the mystery is a mystery of psychology . 
Or , rather , it is a mystery of two psychologies . 
In that Brazilian business two of the most famous men of modern history acted flat against their characters . 
Mind you , Olivier and St . 
Clare were both heroes the old thing , and no mistake it was like the fight between Hector and Achilles . 
Clare was a soldier of the old religious type the type that saved us during the Mutiny , continued Brown . 
He was always more for duty than for dash and with all his personal courage was decidedly a prudent commander , particularly indignant at any needless waste of soldiers . 
Yet in this last battle he attempted something that a baby could see was absurd . 
One need not be a strategist to see it was as wild as wind just as one need not be a strategist to keep out of the way of a motor bus . 
Almost every other prisoner he had ever captured had been set free or even loaded with benefits . 
Men who had really wronged him came away touched by his simplicity and sweetness . 
Why the deuce should he diabolically revenge himself only once in his life and that for the one particular blow that could not have hurt him ? Well , there you have it . 
One of the wisest men in the world acted like an idiot for no reason . 
One of the best men in the world acted like a fiend for no reason . 
That's the long and the short of it and I leave it to you , my boy . 
No , you don't , said the other with a snort . 
I leave it to you and you jolly well tell me all about it . 
Well , resumed Father Brown , it's not fair to say that the public impression is just what I've said , without adding that two things have happened since . 
I can't say they threw a new light for nobody can make sense of them . 
But they threw a new kind of darkness they threw the darkness in new directions . 
The family physician of the St . 
Anyhow , the story fizzled out . 
Everyone knew , of course , that St . 
Clare had some of the eccentricities of puritan piety . 
The second incident was much more arresting . 
In the luckless and unsupported regiment which made that rash attempt at the Black River there was a certain Captain Keith , who was at that time engaged to St . 
Clare's daughter , and who afterwards married her . 
He was one of those who were captured by Olivier , and , like all the rest except the general , appears to have been bounteously treated and promptly set free . 
Some twenty years afterwards this man , then Lieutenant Colonel Keith , published a sort of autobiography called A British Officer in Burmah and Brazil . 
In the place where the reader looks eagerly for some account of the mystery of St . 
The exception I shall make is in this matter of the defeat by the Black River and my reasons , though private , are honourable and compelling . 
I will , however , add this in justice to the memories of two distinguished men . 
Clare has been accused of incapacity on this occasion I can at least testify that this action , properly understood , was one of the most brilliant and sagacious of his life . 
President Olivier by similar report is charged with savage injustice . 
I think it due to the honour of an enemy to say that he acted on this occasion with even more than his characteristic good feeling . 
To put the matter popularly , I can assure my countrymen that St . 
Clare was by no means such a fool nor Olivier such a brute as he looked . 
This is all I have to say nor shall any earthly consideration induce me to add a word to it . 
As he folded it up and put it back in his pocket Flambeau threw up his hand with a French gesture . 
Wait a bit , wait a bit , he cried excitedly . 
I believe I can guess it at the first go . 
He strode on , breathing hard , his black head and bull neck forward , like a man winning a walking race . 
The little priest , amused and interested , had some trouble in trotting beside him . 
The entrance to the farther forest looked small and round , like the black hole of a remote railway tunnel . 
But it was within some hundred yards , and gaped like a cavern before Flambeau spoke again . 
I've got it , he cried at last , slapping his thigh with his great hand . 
Four minutes' thinking , and I can tell your whole story myself . 
All right , assented his friend . 
Flambeau lifted his head , but lowered his voice . 
Rightly or wrongly , he thought the final collapse was close , and resolved on suicide . 
Yet ordinary suicide would blazon the very idea he dreaded . 
As the campaign approached the clouds came thicker on his brain and at last in a mad moment he sacrificed his public duty to his private . 
He rushed rashly into battle , hoping to fall by the first shot . 
When he found that he had only attained capture and discredit , the sealed bomb in his brain burst , and he broke his own sword and hanged himself . 
Perhaps something menacing in the road thus suddenly swallowed reinforced his vivid vision of the tragedy , for he shuddered . 
A horrid story , he said . 
A horrid story , repeated the priest with bent head . 
But not the real story . 
Then he threw back his head with a sort of despair and cried Oh , I wish it had been . 
The tall Flambeau faced round and stared at him . 
Yours is a clean story , cried Father Brown , deeply moved . 
A sweet , pure , honest story , as open and white as that moon . 
Madness and despair are innocent enough . 
There are worse things , Flambeau . 
Flambeau looked up wildly at the moon thus invoked and from where he stood one black tree bough curved across it exactly like a devil's horn . 
And they plunged into the black cloister of the woodland , which ran by them in a dim tapestry of trunks , like one of the dark corridors in a dream . 
First of all , of course , our authority for the issue and event of the battle is in Olivier's own dispatches , which are lucid enough . 
He was entrenched with two or three regiments on the heights that swept down to the Black River , on the other side of which was lower and more marshy ground . 
Beyond this again was gently rising country , on which was the first English outpost , supported by others which lay , however , considerably in its rear . 
By sunset , however , he had decided to retain his own position , which was a specially strong one . 
That they should attempt an attack with such numbers against such a position was incredible enough but Olivier noticed something yet more extraordinary . 
Needless to say , the Brazilians blew great gaps in them with artillery , which they could only return with spirited but lessening rifle fire . 
Yet they never broke and Olivier's curt account ends with a strong tribute of admiration for the mystic valour of these imbeciles . 
Our line then advanced finally , writes Olivier , and drove them into the river we captured General St . 
Clare himself and several other officers . 
The colonel and the major had both fallen in the battle . 
On what happened to the general afterwards Olivier is as silent as Captain Keith . 
Well , grunted Flambeau , get on to the next bit of evidence . 
The next evidence , said Father Brown , took some time to find , but it will not take long to tell . 
This latter was a certain Colonel Clancy , a big bull of an Irishman and it would seem that he died almost as much of rage as of bullets . 
He , at any rate , was not responsible for that ridiculous raid it must have been imposed on him by the general . 
His last edifying words , according to my informant , were these And there goes the damned old donkey with the end of his sword knocked off . 
I wish it was his head . 
You will remark that everyone seems to have noticed this detail about the broken sword blade , though most people regard it somewhat more reverently than did the late Colonel Clancy . 
And now for the third fragment . 
Their path through the woodland began to go upward , and the speaker paused a little for breath before he went on . 
Then he continued in the same business like tone Only a month or two ago a certain Brazilian official died in England , having quarrelled with Olivier and left his country . 
He was a well known figure both here and on the Continent , a Spaniard named Espado I knew him myself , a yellow faced old dandy , with a hooked nose . 
For various private reasons I had permission to see the documents he had left he was a Catholic , of course , and I had been with him towards the end . 
There was nothing of his that lit up any corner of the black St . 
Clare business , except five or six common exercise books filled with the diary of some English soldier . 
I can only suppose that it was found by the Brazilians on one of those that fell . 
Anyhow , it stopped abruptly the night before the battle . 
But the account of that last day in the poor fellow's life was certainly worth reading . 
I have it on me but it's too dark to read it here , and I will give you a resume . 
The first part of that entry is full of jokes , evidently flung about among the men , about somebody called the Vulture . 
It does not seem as if this person , whoever he was , was one of themselves , nor even an Englishman neither is he exactly spoken of as one of the enemy . 
It sounds rather as if he were some local go between and non combatant perhaps a guide or a journalist . 
He has been closeted with old Colonel Clancy but is more often seen talking to the major . 
Indeed , the major is somewhat prominent in this soldier's narrative a lean , dark haired man , apparently , of the name of Murray a north of Ireland man and a Puritan . 
There are continual jests about the contrast between this Ulsterman's austerity and the conviviality of Colonel Clancy . 
There is also some joke about the Vulture wearing bright coloured clothes . 
But all these levities are scattered by what may well be called the note of a bugle . 
Behind the English camp and almost parallel to the river ran one of the few great roads of that district . 
Westward the road curved round towards the river , which it crossed by the bridge before mentioned . 
To the east the road swept backwards into the wilds , and some two miles along it was the next English outpost . 
From this direction there came along the road that evening a glitter and clatter of light cavalry , in which even the simple diarist could recognise with astonishment the general with his staff . 
He rode the great white horse which you have seen so often in illustrated papers and Academy pictures and you may be sure that the salute they gave him was not merely ceremonial . 
He , at least , wasted no time on ceremony , but , springing from the saddle immediately , mixed with the group of officers , and fell into emphatic though confidential speech . 
The two men were made for sympathy they were men who read their Bibles' they were both the old Evangelical type of officer . 
The soldiers watched the two until they vanished behind a clump of trees where the road turned towards the river . 
The colonel had gone back to his tent , and the men to their pickets the man with the diary lingered for another four minutes , and saw a marvellous sight . 
At first they thought it had run away with the man on its back but they soon saw that the general , a fine rider , was himself urging it to full speed . 
I conceive that all the earthquake events of that catastrophe tumbled on top of each other rather like lumber in the minds of men such as our friend with the diary . 
With the dazed excitement of a dream , they found themselves falling literally falling into their ranks , and learned that an attack was to be led at once across the river . 
The general and the major , it was said , had found out something at the bridge , and there was only just time to strike for life . 
The major had gone back at once to call up the reserve along the road behind it was doubtful if even with that prompt appeal help could reach them in time . 
But they must pass the stream that night , and seize the heights by morning . 
It is with the very stir and throb of that romantic nocturnal march that the diary suddenly ends . 
Father Brown had mounted ahead for the woodland path grew smaller , steeper , and more twisted , till they felt as if they were ascending a winding staircase . 
The priest's voice came from above out of the darkness . 
There was one other little and enormous thing . 
When the general urged them to their chivalric charge he half drew his sword from the scabbard and then , as if ashamed of such melodrama , thrust it back again . 
The sword again , you see . 
Flambeau felt truth all round him as an atmosphere , but not as an idea . 
Well , what is there in that ? growled Flambeau it was a twopence coloured sort of incident the old man's blade breaking in his last battle . 
Anyone might bet the papers would get hold of it , as they have . 
On all these tombs and things it's shown broken at the point . 
I hope you haven't dragged me through this Polar expedition merely because two men with an eye for a picture saw St . 
They had come abruptly out of the grey gates of the wood . 
I say , who saw his unbroken sword ? repeated Father Brown obstinately . 
Not the writer of the diary , anyhow the general sheathed it in time . 
But I am sure of it . 
Let me add just one more tiny fact that tips the whole thing over . 
The colonel , by a strange chance , was one of the first struck by a bullet . 
He was struck long before the troops came to close quarters . 
Why was it broken ? How was it broken ? My friend , it was broken before the battle . 
Oh ! said his friend , with a sort of forlorn jocularity and pray where is the other piece ? I can tell you , said the priest promptly . 
In the northeast corner of the cemetery of the Protestant Cathedral at Belfast . 
Indeed ? inquired the other . 
Have you looked for it ? I couldn't , replied Brown , with frank regret . 
There's a great marble monument on top of it a monument to the heroic Major Murray , who fell fighting gloriously at the famous Battle of the Black River . 
Flambeau seemed suddenly galvanised into existence . 
You mean , he cried hoarsely , that General St . 
Clare hated Murray , and murdered him on the field of battle because You are still full of good and pure thoughts , said the other . 
It was worse than that . 
Well , said the large man , my stock of evil imagination is used up . 
The priest seemed really doubtful where to begin , and at last he said again Where would a wise man hide a leaf ? In the forest . 
The other did not answer . 
If there were no forest , he would make a forest . 
And if he wished to hide a dead leaf , he would make a dead forest . 
Flambeau began to stamp forward with an intolerance of delay in time or space but Father Brown went on as if he were continuing the last sentence Sir Arthur St . 
Clare , as I have already said , was a man who read his Bible . 
That was what was the matter with him . 
When will people understand that it is useless for a man to read his Bible unless he also reads everybody else's Bible ? A printer reads a Bible for misprints . 
A Mormon reads his Bible , and finds polygamy a Christian Scientist reads his , and finds we have no arms and legs . 
Clare was an old Anglo Indian Protestant soldier . 
Now , just think what that might mean and , for Heaven's sake , don't cant about it . 
It might mean a man physically formidable living under a tropic sun in an Oriental society , and soaking himself without sense or guidance in an Oriental Book . 
Of course , he read the Old Testament rather than the New . 
Of course , he found in the Old Testament anything that he wanted lust , tyranny , treason . 
Oh , I dare say he was honest , as you call it . 
This is the real case against crime , that a man does not become wilder and wilder , but only meaner and meaner . 
Clare was soon suffocated by difficulties of bribery and blackmail and needed more and more cash . 
And by the time of the Battle of the Black River he had fallen from world to world to that place which Dante makes the lowest floor of the universe . 
What do you mean ? asked his friend again . 
I mean that , retorted the cleric , and suddenly pointed at a puddle sealed with ice that shone in the moon . 
Do you remember whom Dante put in the last circle of ice ? The traitors , said Flambeau , and shuddered . 
The voice went on Olivier , as you know , was quixotic , and would not permit a secret service and spies . 
The thing , however , was done , like many other things , behind his back . 
It was managed by my old friend Espado he was the bright clad fop , whose hook nose got him called the Vulture . 
Clare was in foul need of money , and mountains of it . 
Money was wanted , too , for his daughter's dowry for to him the fame of wealth was as sweet as wealth itself . 
He snapped the last thread , whispered the word to Brazil , and wealth poured in from the enemies of England . 
But another man had talked to Espado the Vulture as well as he . 
the general drew his sabre and plunged it through the body of the major . 
He watched it as the tale drew to its close . 
Clare was a hell hound , but he was a hound of breed . 
Never , I'll swear , was he so lucid and so strong as when poor Murray lay a cold lump at his feet . 
Never in all his triumphs , as Captain Keith said truly , was the great man so great as he was in this last world despised defeat . 
He looked coolly at his weapon to wipe off the blood he saw the point he had planted between his victim's shoulders had broken off in the body . 
He saw quite calmly , as through a club windowpane , all that must follow . 
He saw that men must find the unaccountable corpse must extract the unaccountable sword point must notice the unaccountable broken sword or absence of sword . 
He had killed , but not silenced . 
But his imperious intellect rose against the facer there was one way yet . 
He could make the corpse less unaccountable . 
He could create a hill of corpses to cover this one . 
In twenty minutes eight hundred English soldiers were marching down to their death . 
The warmer glow behind the black winter wood grew richer and brighter , and Flambeau strode on to reach it . 
Father Brown also quickened his stride but he seemed merely absorbed in his tale . 
But the evil mind that played with them like pawns had other aims and reasons . 
They must remain in the marshes by the bridge at least till British corpses should be a common sight there . 
Then for the last grand scene the silver haired soldier saint would give up his shattered sword to save further slaughter . 
Oh , it was well organised for an impromptu . 
, I think that it was while they stuck there in the bloody mire that someone doubted and someone guessed . 
He was mute a moment , and then said There is a voice from nowhere that tells me the man who guessed was the lover . 
the man to wed the old man's child . 
But what about Olivier and the hanging ? asked Flambeau . 
Olivier , partly from chivalry , partly from policy , seldom encumbered his march with captives , explained the narrator . 
He released everybody in most cases . 
He released everybody in this case . 
Everybody but the general , said the tall man . 
Everybody , said the priest . 
Flambeau knit his black brows . 
I don't grasp it all yet , he said . 
There is another picture , Flambeau , said Brown in his more mystical undertone . 
I can't prove it but I can do more I can see it . 
There is a camp breaking up on the bare , torrid hills at morning , and Brazilian uniforms massed in blocks and columns to march . 
There is the red shirt and long black beard of Olivier , which blows as he stands , his broad brimmed hat in his hand . 
He is saying farewell to the great enemy he is setting free the simple , snow headed English veteran , who thanks him in the name of his men . 
The English remnant stand behind at attention beside them are stores and vehicles for the retreat . 
The drums roll the Brazilians are moving the English are still like statues . 
So they abide till the last hum and flash of the enemy have faded from the tropic horizon . 
Then they alter their postures all at once , like dead men coming to life they turn their fifty faces upon the general faces not to be forgotten . 
Flambeau gave a great jump . 
Ah , he cried , you don't mean Yes , said Father Brown in a deep , moving voice . 
It was an English hand that put the rope round St . 
Clare's neck I believe the hand that put the ring on his daughter's finger . 
They were English hands that dragged him up to the tree of shame the hands of men that had adored him and followed him to victory . 
who stared at him swinging in that foreign sun on the green gallows of palm , and prayed in their hatred that he might drop off it into hell . 
As the two topped the ridge there burst on them the strong scarlet light of a red curtained English inn . 
It stood sideways in the road , as if standing aside in the amplitude of hospitality . 
Its three doors stood open with invitation and even where they stood they could hear the hum and laughter of humanity happy for a night . 
I need not tell you more , said Father Brown . 
Perhaps Heaven help them they tried to forget it . 
Let us try to forget it , anyhow here is our inn . 
With all my heart , said Flambeau , and was just striding into the bright , noisy bar when he stepped back and almost fell on the road . 
Look there , in the devil's name ! he cried , and pointed rigidly at the square wooden sign that overhung the road . 
It showed dimly the crude shape of a sabre hilt and a shortened blade and was inscribed in false archaic lettering , The Sign of the Broken Sword . 
Were you not prepared ? asked Father Brown gently . 
He is the god of this country half the inns and parks and streets are named after him and his story . 
I thought we had done with the leper , cried Flambeau , and spat on the road . 
You will never have done with him in England , said the priest , looking down , while brass is strong and stone abides . 
His marble statues will erect the souls of proud , innocent boys for centuries , his village tomb will smell of loyalty as of lilies . 
Millions who never knew him shall love him like a father this man whom the last few that knew him dealt with like dung . 
He shall be a saint and the truth shall never be told of him , because I have made up my mind at last . 
There is so much good and evil in breaking secrets , that I put my conduct to a test . 
All these newspapers will perish the anti Brazil boom is already over Olivier is already honoured everywhere . 
If it were only that St . 
Clare was wrongly praised , I would be silent . 
They plunged into the red curtained tavern , which was not only cosy , but even luxurious inside . 
On a table stood a silver model of the tomb of St . 
Clare , the silver head bowed , the silver sword broken . 
On the walls were coloured photographs of the same scene , and of the system of wagonettes that took tourists to see it . 
They sat down on the comfortable padded benches . 
Come , it's cold , cried Father Brown let's have some wine or beer . 
Or brandy , said Flambeau . 
The Three Tools of Death Both by calling and conviction Father Brown knew better than most of us , that every man is dignified when he is dead . 
But even he felt a pang of incongruity when he was knocked up at daybreak and told that Sir Aaron Armstrong had been murdered . 
There was something absurd and unseemly about secret violence in connection with so entirely entertaining and popular a figure . 
For Sir Aaron Armstrong was entertaining to the point of being comic and popular in such a manner as to be almost legendary . 
It was like hearing that Sunny Jim had hanged himself or that Mr. Pickwick had died in Hanwell . 
For though Sir Aaron was a philanthropist , and thus dealt with the darker side of our society , he prided himself on dealing with it in the brightest possible style . 
with that immortal or even monotonous gaiety which is so often a mark of the prosperous total abstainer . 
He was , one felt , the most seriously merry of all the sons of men . 
He had lived on the rural skirt of Hampstead in a handsome house , high but not broad , a modern and prosaic tower . 
The narrowest of its narrow sides overhung the steep green bank of a railway , and was shaken by passing trains . 
Sir Aaron Armstrong , as he boisterously explained , had no nerves . 
But if the train had often given a shock to the house , that morning the tables were turned , and it was the house that gave a shock to the train . 
The engine slowed down and stopped just beyond that point where an angle of the house impinged upon the sharp slope of turf . 
The arrest of most mechanical things must be slow but the living cause of this had been very rapid . 
to the dreadful detail of black gloves , appeared on the ridge above the engine , and waved his black hands like some sable windmill . 
This in itself would hardly have stopped even a lingering train . 
But there came out of him a cry which was talked of afterwards as something utterly unnatural and new . 
It was one of those shouts that are horridly distinct even when we cannot hear what is shouted . 
The train once arrested , the most superficial stare could take in many features of the tragedy . 
The man in black on the green bank was Sir Aaron Armstrong's man servant Magnus . 
The baronet in his optimism had often laughed at the black gloves of this dismal attendant but no one was likely to laugh at him just now . 
A scrap of rope seemed caught about his leg , entangled presumably in a struggle . 
There was a smear or so of blood , though very little but the body was bent or broken into a posture impossible to any living thing . 
It was Sir Aaron Armstrong . 
In a manner more vague , but even more convincing , he echoed the agony of the servant . 
The whistle had blown and the train had panted on to get help from the next station . 
Father Brown had been thus rapidly summoned at the request of Patrick Royce , the big ex Bohemian secretary . 
Royce was an Irishman by birth and that casual kind of Catholic that never remembers his religion until he is really in a hole . 
led the little priest across the fields to the railway , their talk was more confidential than could be expected between two total strangers . 
As far as I can see , said Mr. Merton candidly , there is no sense to be made of it at all . 
There is nobody one can suspect . 
Magnus is a solemn old fool far too much of a fool to be an assassin . 
Royce has been the baronet's best friend for years and his daughter undoubtedly adored him . 
Besides , it's all too absurd . 
Who would kill such a cheery old chap as Armstrong ? Who could dip his hands in the gore of an after dinner speaker ? It would be like killing Father Christmas . 
Yes , it was a cheery house , assented Father Brown . 
It was a cheery house while he was alive . 
Do you think it will be cheery now he is dead ? Merton started a little and regarded his companion with an enlivened eye . 
Now he is dead ? he repeated . 
Yes , continued the priest stolidly , he was cheerful . 
He had often been to the Armstrongs' , on little police jobs of the philanthropist and , now he came to think of it , it was in itself a depressing house . 
The rooms were very high and very cold the decoration mean and provincial the draughty corridors were lit by electricity that was bleaker than moonlight . 
And though the old man's scarlet face and silver beard had blazed like a bonfire in each room or passage in turn , it did not leave any warmth behind it . 
But when Merton recalled the other inmates , he was compelled to confess that they also were as shadows of their lord . 
As for Armstrong's daughter , it was almost incredible that she was his daughter she was so pallid in colour and sensitive in outline . 
She was graceful , but there was a quiver in the very shape of her that was like the lines of an aspen . 
Merton had sometimes wondered if she had learnt to quail at the crash of the passing trains . 
You see , said Father Brown , blinking modestly , I'm not sure that the Armstrong cheerfulness is so very cheerful for other people . 
You say that nobody could kill such a happy old man , but I'm not sure ne nos inducas in tentationem . 
If ever I murdered somebody , he added quite simply , I dare say it might be an Optimist . 
Why ? cried Merton amused . 
Do you think people dislike cheerfulness ? People like frequent laughter , answered Father Brown , but I don't think they like a permanent smile . 
Cheerfulness without humour is a very trying thing . 
But I can't help sometimes feeling that men like Armstrong want an occasional glass of wine to sadden them . 
He raised his head with unusual pleasure at the sight of the priest , and took him a few paces apart . 
Meanwhile Merton was addressing the older detective respectfully indeed , but not without a certain boyish impatience . 
Well , Mr. Gilder , have you got much farther with the mystery ? There is no mystery , replied Gilder , as he looked under dreamy eyelids at the rooks . 
Well , there is for me , at any rate , said Merton , smiling . 
It is simple enough , my boy , observed the senior investigator , stroking his grey , pointed beard . 
Three minutes after you'd gone for Mr. Royce's parson the whole thing came out . 
You know that pasty faced servant in the black gloves who stopped the train ? I should know him anywhere . 
Somehow he rather gave me the creeps . 
Well , drawled Gilder , when the train had gone on again , that man had gone too . 
No , the only thing worth calling a difficulty is how he killed him . 
Perhaps the weapon was too big to be noticed , said the priest , with an odd little giggle . 
Gilder looked round at this wild remark , and rather sternly asked Brown what he meant . 
Silly way of putting it , I know , said Father Brown apologetically . 
Sounds like a fairy tale . 
But poor Armstrong was killed with a giant's club , a great green club , too big to be seen , and which we call the earth . 
He was broken against this green bank we are standing on . 
How do you mean ? asked the detective quickly . 
Father Brown turned his moon face up to the narrow facade of the house and blinked hopelessly up . 
Following his eyes , they saw that right at the top of this otherwise blind back quarter of the building , an attic window stood open . 
But I don't see why you are so sure about it . 
Brown opened his grey eyes wide . 
Why , he said , there's a bit of rope round the dead man's leg . 
You're quite right , sir , he said to Father Brown that is certainly one to you . 
By Jove ! they've got him , cried Gilder , and stepped forward with quite a new alertness . 
Have you got the money ! he cried to the first policeman . 
The man looked him in the face with a rather curious expression and said No. Then he added At least , not here . 
Which is the inspector , please ? asked the man called Magnus . 
When he spoke everyone instantly understood how this voice had stopped a train . 
He was a dull looking man with flat black hair , a colourless face , and a faint suggestion of the East in the level slits in his eyes and mouth . 
But his voice was as vivid as his face was dead . 
, Magnus's tones had a peculiarly ringing and piercing quality , and the whole group quite jumped when he spoke . 
I always knew this would happen , he said aloud with brazen blandness . 
My poor old master made game of me for wearing black but I always said I should be ready for his funeral . 
And he made a momentary movement with his two dark gloved hands . 
Sergeant , said Inspector Gilder , eyeing the black hands with wrath , aren't you putting the bracelets on this fellow he looks pretty dangerous . 
Well , sir , said the sergeant , with the same odd look of wonder , I don't know that we can . 
What do you mean ? asked the other sharply . 
Haven't you arrested him ? A faint scorn widened the slit like mouth , and the whistle of an approaching train seemed oddly to echo the mockery . 
Gilder looked at the man servant in utter amazement . 
Why on earth did you do that ? he asked of Magnus . 
To keep it safe from the criminal , of course , replied that person placidly . 
Surely , said Gilder , Sir Aaron's money might have been safely left with Sir Aaron's family . 
She was still young and beautiful in a silvery style , but her hair was of so dusty and hueless a brown that in some shadows it seemed to have turned totally grey . 
Be careful what you say , said Royce gruffly , you'll frighten Miss Armstrong . 
I hope so , said the man with the clear voice . 
As the woman winced and everyone else wondered , he went on I am somewhat used to Miss Armstrong's tremors . 
I have seen her trembling off and on for years . 
She would have been away by now with her lover and all the money but for me . 
Ever since my poor old master prevented her from marrying that tipsy blackguard Stop , said Gilder very sternly . 
We have nothing to do with your family fancies or suspicions . 
Unless you have some practical evidence , your mere opinions Oh ! I'll give you practical evidence , cut in Magnus , in his hacking accent . 
You'll have to subpoena me , Mr. Inspector , and I shall have to tell the truth . 
Allow me to hand that also to the proper authorities . 
He took from his tail pocket a long horn hilted knife with a red smear on it , and handed it politely to the sergeant . 
Then he stood back again , and his slits of eyes almost faded from his face in one fat Chinese sneer . 
Yes , he said , radiating innocence , but is Miss Armstrong's word against his ? The girl uttered a startled , singular little cry everyone looked at her . 
Her figure was rigid as if paralysed only her face within its frame of faint brown hair was alive with an appalling surprise . 
She stood like one of a sudden lassooed and throttled . 
This man , said Mr. Gilder gravely , actually says that you were found grasping a knife , insensible , after the murder . 
He says the truth , answered Alice . 
His huge shoulder heaved and he sent an iron fist smash into Magnus's bland Mongolian visage , laying him on the lawn as flat as a starfish . 
None of that , Mr. Royce , Gilder had called out authoritatively . 
I shall arrest you for assault . 
No , you won't , answered the secretary in a voice like an iron gong , you will arrest me for murder . 
But she had not snatched the knife to attack her father , but to defend him . 
To defend him , repeated Gilder gravely . 
Against whom ? Against me , answered the secretary . 
Alice looked at him with a complex and baffling face then she said in a low voice After it all , I am still glad you are brave . 
Come upstairs , said Patrick Royce heavily , and I will show you the whole cursed thing . 
, had indeed all the vestiges of a violent drama . 
Near the centre of the floor lay a large revolver as if flung away nearer to the left was rolled a whisky bottle , open but not quite empty . 
The cloth of the little table lay dragged and trampled , and a length of cord , like that found on the corpse , was cast wildly across the windowsill . 
Two vases were smashed on the mantelpiece and one on the carpet . 
I was drunk , said Royce and this simplicity in the prematurely battered man somehow had the pathos of the first sin of a baby . 
You all know about me , he continued huskily everybody knows how my story began , and it may as well end like that too . 
Well , you can form your own conclusions , and you won't want me to go into details . 
That is my whisky bottle half emptied in the corner that is my revolver quite emptied on the carpet . 
It was the rope from my box that was found on the corpse , and it was from my window the corpse was thrown . 
You need not set detectives to grub up my tragedy it is a common enough weed in this world . 
I say , he said good naturedly , this really won't do at all , you know . 
At the beginning you said we'd found no weapon . 
And he shook his head at the ground as a horse does grazing . 
Inspector Gilder had opened his mouth with serious intentions , but before he could speak the grotesque figure on the floor had gone on quite volubly . 
And now three quite impossible things . 
First , these holes in the carpet , where the six bullets have gone in . 
Why on earth should anybody fire at the carpet ? A drunken man lets fly at his enemy's head , the thing that's grinning at him . 
He doesn't pick a quarrel with his feet , or lay siege to his slippers . 
And , plainest of all , the whisky bottle . 
You suggest a dipsomaniac fought for the whisky bottle , and then having won , rolled it away in a corner , spilling one half and leaving the other . 
That is the very last thing a dipsomaniac would do . 
He scrambled awkwardly to his feet , and said to the self accused murderer in tones of limpid penitence I'm awfully sorry , my dear sir , but your tale is really rubbish . 
You are a clever man , she said , and you are trying to save Patrick , I know . 
The core of all this is black , and the more things you find out the more there will be against the miserable man I love . 
Why ? asked Brown , looking at her steadily . 
Because , she answered equally steadily , I saw him commit the crime myself . 
Then it tightened round one leg and Patrick dragged him along like a maniac . 
I snatched a knife from the mat , and , rushing between them , managed to cut the rope before I fainted . 
I see , said Father Brown , with the same wooden civility . 
Why do you want them taken off ? Why , I thought , replied the priest humbly , that perhaps I might have the very great honour of shaking hands with him . 
Both detectives stared , and Father Brown added Won't you tell them about it , sir ? The man on the chair shook his tousled head , and the priest turned impatiently . 
Then I will , he said . 
Private lives are more important than public reputations . 
I am going to save the living , and let the dead bury their dead . 
He went to the fatal window , and blinked out of it as he went on talking . 
I told you that in this case there were too many weapons and only one death . 
I tell you now that they were not weapons , and were not used to cause death . 
All those grisly tools , the noose , the bloody knife , the exploding pistol , were instruments of a curious mercy . 
They were not used to kill Sir Aaron , but to save him . 
To save him ! repeated Gilder . 
And from what ? From himself , said Father Brown . 
He was a suicidal maniac . 
What ? cried Merton in an incredulous tone . 
And the Religion of Cheerfulness It is a cruel religion , said the priest , looking out of the window . 
At last , to keep up his hilarious public level , he fell back on that dram drinking he had abandoned long ago . 
But there is this horror about alcoholism in a sincere teetotaler that he pictures and expects that psychological inferno from which he has warned others . 
He was mad for death , and with the monkey tricks of the mad he had scattered round him death in many shapes a running noose and his friend's revolver and a knife . 
Royce entered accidentally and acted in a flash . 
He flung the knife on the mat behind him , snatched up the revolver , and having no time to unload it , emptied it shot after shot all over the floor . 
The suicide saw a fourth shape of death , and made a dash for the window . 
The rescuer did the only thing he could ran after him with the rope and tried to tie him hand and foot . 
Then it was that the unlucky girl ran in , and misunderstanding the struggle , strove to slash her father free . 
At first she only slashed poor Royce's knuckles , from which has come all the little blood in this affair . 
You and the young lady are worth more than Armstrong's obituary notices . 
Confound Armstrong's notices , cried Royce roughly . 
Don't you see it was because she mustn't know ? Mustn't know what ? asked Merton . 
Why , that she killed her father , you fool ! roared the other . 
He'd have been alive now but for her . 
It might craze her to know that . 
No , I don't think it would , remarked Father Brown , as he picked up his hat . 
I rather think I should tell her . 
Even the most murderous blunders don't poison life like sins anyhow , I think you may both be the happier now . 
I've got to go back to the Deaf School . 
As he went out on to the gusty grass an acquaintance from Highgate stopped him and said The Coroner has arrived . 
The inquiry is just going to begin . 
I've got to get back to the Deaf School , said Father Brown . 
I'm sorry I can't stop for the inquiry . 
