With his passing we have lost much of the aboriginal folk lore , rich in its fairy like characters , and its relation to the lives of a most warlike people . 
There is a wide difference between folk lore of the so called Old World and that of America . 
Childlike in sim plicity , beginning with creation itself , and reaching to the whys and wherefores of nature's moods and eccentricities , these tales impress me as being well worth saving . 
The Indian has always been a lover of nature and a close observer of her many moods . 
But the tribal story teller has passed , and only here and there is to be found a patriarch who loves the legends of other days . 
OLD man , or Napa , as he is called by the tribes of Blackfeet , is the strangest character in Indian folk lore . 
Sometimes he appears as a god or creator , and again as a fool , a thief , or a clown . 
But to the Indian , Napa is not the Deity he occupies a somewhat subordinate position , possessing many attributes which have sometimes caused him to be confounded with Manitou , himself . 
The Indian possesses the highest veneration for the Great God , who has become familiar to the readers of Indian literature as Manitou . 
No idle tales are told of Him , nor would any Indian mention Him irreverently . 
But with Napa it is entirely different he appears entitled to no reverence he is a strange mixture of the fal lible human and the powerful under god . 
He made many mistakes was seldom to be trusted and his works and pranks run from the sub lime to the ridiculous . 
In fact , there are many stories in which Napa figures that will not bear telling at all . 
Just over the ragged mountain range the big moon hung in an almost starless sky , and in shadowy outline every peak lay upon the plain like a giant pat tern . 
The quiver that held the arrows was combined with a case for the bow , and colored quills of the porcupine had been deftly used to make it a thing of beauty . 
All about the lodge hung the strangely painted linings , and the fire light added richness to both color and design . 
He was wise , and had been in many battles , for his was a warlike tribe . 
He knew all about the world and the people in it . 
He was deeply religious , and every Indian child loved him for his good ness and brave deeds . 
Not a sound did the children make while the old warrior filled his great pipe , and only the snapping of the lodge fire broke the still ness . 
Finally he spoke Napa , OLD man , is very old indeed . 
He made this world , and all that is on it . 
He came out of the south , and travelled toward the north , making the birds and animals as he passed . 
He made the perfumes for the winds to carry about , and he even made the war paint for the people to use . 
He was a busy worker , but a great liar and thief , as I shall show you after I have told you more about him . 
It was OLD man who taught the beaver all his cunning . 
OLD man used to live on this world with the animals and birds . 
There was no other man or woman then , and he was chief over all the animal people and the bird people . 
He could speak the lan guage of the robin , knew the words of the bear , and understood the sign talk of the beaver , too . 
He lived with the wolves , for they are the great hunters . 
Even to day we make the same sign for a smart man as we make for the wolf so you see he taught them much while he lived with them . 
OLD man made a great many mistakes in making things , as I shall show you after a while yet he worked until he had everything good . 
But he often made great mischief and taught many wicked things . 
These I shall tell you about some day . 
Everybody was afraid of OLD man and his tricks and lies even the animal people , before he made men and women . 
What I shall tell you now happened when the world was young . 
It was a fine sum mer day , and OLD man was travelling in the forest . 
He was going north and straight as an arrow looking at nothing , hearing noth ing . 
No one knows what he was after , to this day . 
The birds and forest people spoke politely to him as he passed but he answered none of them . 
The Pine squirrel , who is al ways trying to find out other people's business , asked him where he was going , but OLD man wouldn't tell him . 
The woodpecker hammered on a dead tree to make him look that way , but he wouldn't . 
The Elk people and the Deer people saw him pass , and all said that he must be up to some mischief or he would stop and talk a while . 
The pine trees murmured , and the bushes whispered their greeting , but he kept his eyes straight ahead and went on travelling . 
, and turning about he saw a warrior lying bruised and bleeding near a spring of cold water . 
OLD man knelt beside the man and asked 'Is there war in this country ? 'Yes , answered the man . 
'This whole day long we have fought to kill a Person , but we have all been killed , I am afraid . 
Finally he saw the bushes bend and sway near a creek that flowed through the forest . 
He crawled toward the spot , and peering through the brush saw a great Person near a pile of dead men , with his back against a pine tree . 
The Person was full of arrows , and he was pulling them from his ugly body . 
Calmly the Person broke the shafts of the arrows , tossed them aside , and stopped the blood flow with a brush of his hairy hand . 
His head was large and fierce looking , and his eyes were small and wicked . 
His great body was larger than that of a buffalo bull and covered with scars of many battles . 
'I am Bad Sickness , replied the Person . 
'Tribes I have met remember me and always will , for their bravest warriors are afraid when I make war upon them . 
I come in the night or I visit their camps in daylight . 
It is always the same they are frightened and I kill them easily . 
'Ho ! said OLD man , 'tell me how to make Bad Sickness , for I often go to war myself . 
He lied for he was never in a battle in his life . 
The Person shook his ugly head and then OLD man said 'If you will tell me how to make Bad Sick ness I will make you small and handsome . 
When you are big , as you now are , it is very hard to make a living but when you are small , little food will make you fat . 
Your living will be easy because I will make your food grow everywhere . 
'Good , said the Person , 'I will do it you must kill the fawns of the deer and the calves of the elk when they first begin to live . 
When you have killed enough of them you must make a robe of their skins . 
Whenever you wear that robe and sing now you sicken , now you sicken , the sickness will come that is all there is to it . 
'Good , said OLD man , 'now lie down to sleep and I will do as I promised . 
The Person went to sleep and OLD man breathed upon him until he grew so tiny that he laughed to see how small he had made him . 
Then he took out his paint sack and striped the Person's back with black and yellow . 
It looked bright and handsome and he waked the Person , who was now a tiny animal with a bushy tail to make him pretty . 
'Now , said OLD man , 'you are the Chip munk , and must always wear those striped clothes . 
All of your children and their chil dren , must wear them , too . 
'You are a cousin to the Pine squirrel , said OLD man , 'and you will hunt and hide as he does . 
You will be spry and your living will be easy to make if you do as I have told you . 
He taught the Chipmunk his language and his signs , showed him where to live , and then left him , going on toward the north again . 
He didn't like the looks of it . 
Suddenly he thought how nice the back of the Chipmunk looked after he had striped it with his paints . 
He got out his old paint sack and with the same colors made the robe look very much like the clothes of the Chipmunk . 
They came as soon as they received the mes sage , for they were afraid of OLD man and always tried to please him . 
When they had all reached the place where OLD man was he said to them 'Do you see this robe ? 'Yes , we see it , they replied . 
'Well , I have made it from the skins of your children , and then painted it to look like the Chipmunk's back , for I like the looks of that Person's clothes . 
I want it to be that way to save me work . 
and on all of the elk calves the spots shall not be so white and shall be in rows and look rather yellow . 
Again he showed them his robe , that they might see just what he wanted . 
'Remember , he said , 'after this I don't want to see any of your children running about wearing plain clothing , because that would mean more painting for me . 
Now go away , and remember what I have said , lest I make you sick . 
That is the way Manitou takes care of the weak , and all of the forest people know about it , too . 
Now you know why the Chipmunk's back is striped , and why the fawn and elk calf wear their pretty clothes . 
Ho ! HOW THE DUCKS GOT THEIR FINE FEATHERS Another night had come , and I made my way toward War Eagle's lodge . 
They are going away from winter because they cannot make a living when ice covers the rivers . 
You have seen the Duck people often . 
You have noticed that they wear fine clothes but you do not know how they got them so I will tell you to night . 
It was in the fall when leaves are yellow that it happened , and long , long ago . 
The Duck people had gathered to go away , just as they are doing now . 
The buck deer was com ing down from the high ridges to visit friends in the lowlands along the streams as they have always done . 
On a lake OLD man saw the Duck people getting ready to go away , and at that time they all looked alike that is , they all wore the same colored clothes . 
The loons and the geese and the ducks were there and playing in the sunlight . 
The loons were laugh ing loudly and the diving was fast and merry to see . 
On the hill where OLD man stood there was a great deal of moss , and he began to tear it from the ground and roll it into a great ball . 
When he had gathered all he needed he shoul dered the load and started for the shore of the lake , staggering under the weight of the great burden . 
Finally the Duck people saw him coming with his load of moss and began to swim away from the shore . 
'Wait , my brothers ! he called , 'I have a big load here , and I am going to give you people a dance . 
Come and help me get things ready . 
'Don't you do it , said the gray goose to the others 'that's OLD man and he is up to something bad , I am sure . 
So the loon called to OLD man and said they wouldn't help him at all . 
Right near the water OLD man dropped his ball of moss and then cut twenty long poles . 
With the poles he built a lodge which he covered with the moss , leaving a doorway facing the lake . 
Finally OLD man began to sing a song in the duck talk , and keep time with his drum . 
The loon stopped near the door , for he be lieved that what the gray goose had said was true , and that OLD man was up to some mis chief . 
The gray goose , too , was careful to stay close to the door but the ducks reached all about the fire . 
'Well , said Old man , 'this is going to be the Blind dance , but you will have to be painted first . 
'Brother Mallard , name the colors tell how you want me to paint you . 
'Well , replied the mallard drake , 'paint my head green , and put a white circle around my throat , like a necklace . 
Besides that , I want a brown breast and yellow legs but I don't want my wife painted that way . 
OLD man painted him just as he asked , and his wife , too . 
and the spoonbill and the blue bill and the canvasback and the goose and the brant and the loon all chose their paint . 
OLD man painted them all just as they wanted him to , and kept singing all the time . 
They looked very pretty in the firelight , for it was night before the painting was done . 
Every one that peeks will have sore eyes forever . 
Then the Duck people shut their eyes and OLD man began to sing 'Now you come , ducks , now you come tum tum , tum tum tum , tum . 
Around the fire they came with their eyes still shut , and as fast as they reached OLD man , the rascal would seize them , and wring their necks . 
The loon cried out , 'He's killing us let us fly , and they did that . 
There was a great squawk ing and quacking and fluttering as the Duck people escaped from the lodge . 
Yes , that is why he is a cripple to day . 
And all of the Duck people that peeked that night at the dance still have sore eyes just as OLD man told them they would have . 
Of course they hurt and smart no more but they stay red to pay for peeking , and always will . 
You have seen the mallard and the rest of the Duck people . 
You can see that the colors OLD man painted so long ago are still bright and handsome , and they will stay that way forever and forever . 
The wolf's trail , the Indians call this filmy streak that foretells fair weather , and to night it promised much , for it seemed plainer and brighter than ever before . 
How how ! greeted War Eagle , making the sign for me to be seated near him , as I entered his lodge . 
Then he passed me his pipe and together we smoked until the chil dren came . 
Entering quietly , they seated themselves in exactly the same positions they had occupied on the previous evenings , and patiently waited in silence . 
The boy did as he was bidden . 
That same laugh nearly cost him his life once , as you will see . 
It was one day in the winter time when OLD man and the Wolf were hunting . 
The snow covered the land and ice was on all of the rivers . 
It was so cold that OLD man wrapped his robe close about himself and his breath showed white in the air . 
Of course the Wolf was not cold wolves never get cold as men do . 
Both OLD man and the Wolf were hungry for they had travelled far and had killed no meat . 
OLD man was complaining and grum bling , for his heart is not very good . 
It is never well to grumble when we are doing our best , because it will do no good and makes us weak in our hearts . 
When our hearts are weak our heads sicken and our strength goes away . 
Yes , it is bad to grumble . 
When the sun was getting low OLD man and the Wolf came to a great river . 
On the ice that covered the water , they saw four fat Otters playing . 
'There is meat , said the Wolf 'wait here and I will try to catch one of those fellows . 
OLD man didn't care much if the Wolf did drown . 
He was afraid to be left alone and hungry in the snow that was all . 
'Ho ! said the Wolf , 'I am swift of foot and my teeth are white and sharp . 
What chance has an Otter against me ? Yes , I will go , and he did . 
Away ran the Otters with the Wolf after them , while OLD man stood on the bank and shivered with fright and cold . 
Of course the Wolf was faster than the Otter , but he was running on the ice , remember , and slipping a good deal . 
Nearer and nearer ran the Wolf . 
In fact he was just about to seize an Otter , when SPLASH ! into an air hole all the Otters went . 
The Otters knew that hole was there . 
That was their country and they were running to reach that same hole all the time , but the Wolf didn't know that . 
Old man saw it all and began to cry and wail as women do . 
Ho ! but he made a great fuss . 
Well right there is where the thing hap pened . 
You see , Kingfisher can't fish through the ice and he knows it , too so he always finds places like the one OLD man found . 
OLD man heard him and Ho ! but he was angry . 
He looked about to see who was laughing at him and that made Kingfisher laugh again , longer and louder than before . 
This time OLD man saw him and SWOW ! he threw his war club at Kingfisher tried to kill the bird for laughing . 
Kingfisher ducked so quickly that OLD man's club just grazed the feathers on his head , making them stand up straight . 
'There , said OLD man , 'I'll teach you to laugh at me when I'm sad . 
Your feathers are standing up on the top of your head now and they will stay that way , too . 
As long as you live you must wear a head dress , to pay for your laughing , and all your children must do the same . 
This was long , long ago , but the King fishers have not forgotten , and they all wear war bonnets , and always will as long as there are Kingfishers . 
Now I will say good night , and when the sun sleeps again I will tell you why the curlew's bill is so long and crooked . 
Somehow the music made me sad and not until it had ceased , did we enter . 
How ! How ! he greeted us , with no trace of the sadness in his voice that I de tected in his song . 
You have come here to night to learn why the Curlew's bill is so long and crooked . 
I will tell you , as I promised , but first I must smoke . 
He often got into trouble but something always happened to get him out of it . 
What I shall tell you now will show you that it is not well to try to do things just because others do them . 
They may be right for others , and wrong for us , but OLD man didn't understand that , you see . 
One day he saw some mice playing and went near to watch them . 
It was spring time , and the frost was just coming out of the ground . 
The Chief Mouse would sing a song , while all the other mice danced , and then the chief would cry 'now ! and all the mice would run past the big rock . 
On the other side , the Chief Mouse would sing again , and then say 'now ! back they would come right under the danger ous rock . 
Sometimes little bits of dirt would crumble and fall near the rock . 
as though warning the mice that the rock was going to fall , but they paid no attention to the warn ing , and kept at their playing . 
Finally OLD man said 'Say , Chief Mouse , I want to try that . 
I want to play that game . 
I am a good run ner . 
He wasn't , you know , but he thought he could run . 
That is often where we make great mistakes when we try to do things we were not intended to do . 
'No no ! cried the Chief Mouse , as OLD man prepared to make the race past the rock . 
'No ! No ! you will shake the ground . 
You are too heavy , and the rock may fall and kill you . 
My people are light of foot and fast . 
We are having a good time , but if you should try to do as we are doing you might get hurt , and that would spoil our fun . 
'Ho ! said OLD man , 'stand back ! I'll show you what a runner I am . 
He ran like a grizzly bear , and shook the ground with his weight . 
Swow ! came the great rock on top of OLD man and held him fast in the mud . 
My ! how he screamed and called for aid . 
All the Mice people ran away to find help . 
It was a long time before the Mice people found anybody , but they finally found the Coyote , and told him what had happened . 
Coyote didn't like OLD man very much , but he said he would go and see what he could do , and he did . 
The Mice people showed him the way , and when they all reached the spot there was OLD man deep in the mud , with the big rock on his back . 
He was angry and was saying things people should not say , for they do no good and make the mind wicked . 
Coyote said 'Keep still , you big baby . 
You are splashing mud in my eyes . 
How can I see with my eyes full of mud ? Tell me that . 
I am going to try to help you out of your trouble . 
He tried but OLD man insulted Coyote . 
and called him a name that is not good , so the Coyote said , 'Well , stay there , and went away . 
Again OLD man began to call for helpers , and the Curlew , who was flying over , saw the trouble , and came down to the ground to help . 
In those days Curlew had a short , stubby bill , and he thought that he could break the rock by pecking it . 
He pecked and pecked away without making any headway , till OLD man grew angry at him , as he did at the Coyote . 
The harder the Curlew worked , the worse OLD man scolded him . 
OLD man lost his temper altogether , you see , which is a bad thing to do , for we lose our friends with it , often . 
Temper is like a bad dog about a lodge no friends will come to see us when he is about . 
Curlew did his best but finally said 'I'll go and try to find somebody else to help you . 
I guess I am too small and weak . 
I shall come back to you . 
He was standing close to OLD man when he spoke , and OLD man reached out and grabbed the Curlew by the bill . 
Curlew began to scream oh , my oh , my oh , my as you still hear them in the air when it is morning . 
OLD man hung onto the bill and finally pulled it out long and slim , and bent it downward , as it is to day . 
Then he let go and laughed at the Curlew . 
'You are a queer looking bird now . 
That is a homely bill , but you shall always wear it and so shall all of your children , as long as there are Curlews in the world . 
I have forgotten who it was that got OLD man out of his trouble , but it seems to me it was the bear . 
Anyhow he did get out some how , and lived to make trouble , until Mani tou grew tired of him . 
I will also tell you how he made the first man and the first woman and who they were . 
But now the grouse is fast asleep nobody is stirring but those who were made to see in the dark , like the owl and the wolf . 
Ho ! OLD MAN REMAKES THE WORLD The sun was just sinking behind the hills when we started for War Eagle's lodge . 
To morrow will be a fine day , said Other person , for grandfather says that a red sky is always the sun's promise of fine weather , and the sun cannot lie . 
Yes , said Bluebird , and he said that when this moon was new it travelled well south for this time of year and its points were up . 
That means fine , warm weather . 
I wish I knew as much as grandfather , said Fine bow with pride . 
The pipe was laid aside at once upon our entering the lodge and the old warrior said I have told you that OLD man taught the animals and the birds all they know . 
He made them and therefore knew just what each would have to understand in order to make his living . 
They have never forgotten anything he told them even to this day . 
Their grandfathers told the young ones what they had been told , just as I am telling you the things you should know . 
All winter long the Bear sleeps and eats nothing , because OLD man told him that he could . 
He sleeps so much in the winter that he spends most of his time in summer hunting . 
Whenever the animal people got into trouble they always sought OLD man and told him about it . 
All were busy working and making a living , when one day it commenced to rain . 
That was nothing , of course , but it didn't stop as it had always done before . 
No , it kept right on raining until the rivers over ran their banks , and the water chased the Weasel out of his hole in the ground . 
Yes , and it found the Rabbit's hiding place and made him leave it . 
It crept into the lodge of the Wolf at night and frightened his wife and children . 
It poured into the den of the Bear among the rocks and he had to move . 
It crawled under the logs in the forest and found the Mice people . 
Out it went to the plains and chased them out of their homes in the buffalo skulls . 
At last the Beavers' dams broke under the strain and that made every thing worse . 
It was bad very bad , indeed . 
Everybody except the fish people were fright ened and all went to find OLD man that they might tell him what had happened . 
Finally they found his fire , far up on a timbered bench , and they said that they wanted a council right away . 
All about OLD man's fire they sat and whispered or talked in signs . 
Even the Deer spoke to the Mountain lion , and the Antelope told the Wolf that he was glad to see him , because fear had made them all friends . 
and asked them what was troubling them . 
The Bear spoke first , of course , and told how the water had made him move his camp . 
He said all the animal people were moving their homes , and he was afraid they would be unable to find good camping places , because of the water . 
Then the Beaver spoke , be cause he is wise and all the forest people know it . 
He said his dams would not hold back the water that came against them that the whole world was a lake , and that he thought they were on an island . 
He said he couldn't think of a thing to do then he sat down and the sign talking and whispering commenced again . 
OLD man smoked a long time smoked and thought hard . 
Finally he grabbed his magic stone axe , and began to sing his war song . 
Then the rest knew he had made up his mind and knew what he would do . 
Swow ! he struck a mighty pine tree a blow , and it fell down . 
Swow ! down went another and another , until he had ten times ten of the longest , straightest , and largest trees in all the world lying side by side before him . 
Then OLD man chopped off the limbs , and with the aid of magic rolled the great logs tight together . 
With withes of willow that he told the Beaver to cut for him , he bound the logs fast together until they were all as one . 
It was a monstrous raft that OLD man had built , as he sang his song in the darkness . 
At last he cried , 'Ho ! every body hurry and sit on this raft I have made' and they did hurry . 
By and by the raft began to groan , and the willow withes squeaked and cried out as though ghost people were crying in the night . 
That was when the great logs began to tremble as the water lifted them from the ground . 
Rain was falling night was there , and fear made cowards of the bravest on the raft . 
All through the forest there were bad noises noises that make the heart cold as the raft bumped against great trees rising from the earth that they were leaving forever . 
Then the world was no more , for the water had whipped the land in the war it made against it . 
Day came , and still the rain was falling . 
Night returned , and yet the rain came down . 
For many days and nights they drifted in the falling rain whirling and twisting about while the water played with the great raft , as a Bear would play with a Mouse . 
It was bad , and they were all afraid even OLD man himself was scared . 
At last the sun came but there was no land . 
The water was the world . 
It reached even to the sky and touched it all about the edges . 
All were hungry , and some of them were grumbling , too . 
There are always grumblers when there is great trouble , but they are not the ones who become great chiefs ever . 
OLD man sat in the middle of the raft and thought . 
He knew that something must be done , but he didn't know what . 
Finally he said 'Ho ! Chipmunk , bring me the Spotted Loon . 
Tell him I want him . 
The Chipmunk found the Spotted Loon and told him that OLD man wanted him , so the Loon went to where OLD man sat . 
When he got there , OLD man said 'Spotted Loon you are a great diver . 
No body can dive as you can . 
I made you that way and I know . 
'It is too deep , this water , replied the Loon , 'I am afraid I shall drown . 
'Well , what if you do ? said OLD man . 
'I gave you life , and if you lose it this way I will return it to you . 
You shall live again ! 'All right , OLD man , he answered , 'I am willing to try' so he waddled to the edge of the raft . 
He is a poor walker the Loon , and you know I told you why . 
It was all because OLD man kicked him in the back the night he painted all the Duck people . 
Down went the Spotted Loon , and long he stayed beneath the water . 
All waited and watched , and longed for good luck , but when he came to the top he was dead . 
Everybody groaned all felt badly , I can tell you , as OLD man laid the dead Loon on the logs . 
The Loon's wife was crying , but OLD man told her to shut up and she did . 
Then OLD man blew his own breath into the Loon's bill , and he came back to life . 
'What did you see , Brother Loon ? asked OLD man , while everybody crowded as close as he could . 
'Nothing but water , answered the Loon , 'we shall all die here , I cannot reach the world by swimming . 
Things were bad and getting worse . 
Everybody was cross , and all wondered what OLD man would do next , when somebody laughed . 
But he paid no attention to OLD man or the rest , and slipped from the raft to the water . 
Flip ! his tail cut the water like a knife , and he was gone . 
Some laughed again , but all wondered at his daring , and waited with little hope in their hearts for the Muskrat wasn't very great , they thought . 
OLD man brought Muskrat back to life , and asked him what he had seen on his journey . 
Muskrat said 'I saw trees , OLD man , but I died before I got to them . 
OLD man told him he was brave . 
He said his people should forever be great if he suc ceeded in bringing some dirt to the raft so just as soon as the Muskrat was rested he dove again . 
When he came up he was dead , but clinched in his tiny hand OLD man found some dirt not much , but a little . 
A second time OLD man gave the Muskrat his breath , and told him that he must go once more , and bring dirt . 
Everybody on the raft was anxious now , and they were all crowding about OLD man but he told them to stand back , and they did . 
Then he blew his breath in Muskrat's mouth a third time , and a third time he lived and joined his wife . 
OLD man then dried the dirt in his hands , rubbing it slowly and singing a queer song . 
Finally it was dry then he settled the hand that held the dirt in the water slowly , until the water touched the dirt . 
The dry dirt began to whirl about and then OLD man blew upon it . 
Hard he blew and waved his hands , and the dirt began to grow in size right before their eyes . 
OLD man kept blowing and waving his hands until the dirt became real land , and the trees began to grow . 
So large it grew that none could see across it . 
Then he stopped his blowing and sang some more . 
Everybody wanted to get off the raft , but OLD man said 'no . 
'Come here , Wolf , he said , and the Wolf came to him . 
'You are swift of foot and brave . 
Run around this land I have made , that I may know how large it is . 
The Wolf started , and it took him half a year to get back to the raft . 
He never came back no , the OLD man had made it so big that the Wolf died of old age before he got back to the raft . 
Then all the people went out upon the land to make their living , and they were happy , there , too . 
After they had been on the land for a long time OLD man said 'Now I shall make a man and a woman , for I am lonesome living with you people . 
He took two or three handfuls of mud from the world he had made , and moulded both a man and a woman . 
Then he set them side by side and breathed upon them . 
They lived ! and he made them very strong and healthy very beautiful to look upon . 
Chippewas , he called these people , and they lived happily on that world until a white man saw an Eagle sailing over the land and came to look about . 
He stole the woman that white man did and that is where all the tribes came from that we know to day . 
None are pure of blood but the two humans he made of clay , and their own children . 
And they are the Chippewas ! That is a long story and now you must hurry to bed . 
The plains were dotted with these relics of the chase , for already the hide hunting white man had played havoc with the great herds of buffalo . 
This skull was in a grove of cottonwood trees near the river , and as they approached two Mice scampered into it to hide . 
Muskrat , in great glee , secured a stick and was about to turn the skull over and kill the Mice , when his grandmother said No , our people never kill Mice . 
Your grandfather will tell you why if you ask him . 
The Mice people are our friends and we treat them as such . 
Even small people can be good friends , you know remember that . 
All the day the boy wondered why the Mice people should not be harmed and just at dark he came for me to accompany him to War Eagle's lodge . 
On the way he told me what his grandmother had said , and that he intended to ask for the reason , as soon as we arrived . 
Yes , replied War Eagle , I do know and you must know . 
Yes they are great people , as you will see . 
It happened long , long ago , when there were few men and women on the world . 
There was much quarrelling among the animals and the birds . 
You see the Bear wanted to be chief , under OLD man , and so did the Beaver . 
Almost every night they would have a council and quarrel over it . 
Beside the Bear and Beaver , there were other animals , and also birds , that thought they had the right to be chief . 
They couldn't agree and the quarrelling grew worse as time went on . 
Some said the greatest thief should be chosen . 
Others thought the wisest one should be the leader while some said the swiftest traveller was the one they wanted . 
So it went on and on until they were most all enemies instead of friends , and you could hear them quarrelling almost every night , until OLD man came along that way . 
He heard about the trouble . 
I forget who told him , but I think it was the Rabbit . 
Anyhow he visited the council where the quarrelling was going on and listened to what each one had to say . 
It took until almost daylight , too . 
He listened to it all every bit . 
When they had finished talking and the quarrelling commenced as usual , he said , 'stop ! and they did stop . 
Then he said to them 'I will settle this thing right here and right now , so that there will be no more rows over it , forever . 
He opened his paint sack and took from it a small , polished bone . 
This he held up in the firelight , so that they might all see it , and he said 'This will settle the quarrel . 
You all see this bone in my right hand , don't you ? 'Yes , they replied . 
'Well , now you watch the bone and my hands , too , for they are quick and cunning . 
OLD man began to sing the gambling song and to slip the bone from one hand to the other so rapidly and smoothly that they were all puzzled . 
Finally he stopped singing and held out his hands both shut tight , and both with their backs up . 
'Which of my hands holds the bone now ? he asked them . 
Some said it was in the right hand and others claimed that it was the left hand that held it . 
OLD man asked the Bear to name the hand that held the bone , and the Bear did but when OLD man opened that hand it was empty the bone was not there . 
Then every body laughed at the Bear . 
OLD man smiled a little and began to sing and again pass the bone . 
'Beaver , you are smart name the hand that holds the bone this time . 
The Beaver said 'It's in your right hand . 
I saw you put it there . 
OLD man opened that hand right before the Beaver's eyes , but the bone wasn't there , and again everybody laughed especially the Bear . 
Whoever that is , he shall be chief under me , forever . 
Some were awkward and said they didn't care much who was chief , but most all of them learned to play pretty well . 
First the Bear and the Beaver tried it , but the Beaver beat the Bear easily and held the bone for ever so long . 
Finally the Buffalo beat the Beaver and started to play with the Mouse . 
Of course the Mouse had small hands and was quicker than the Buffalo quicker to see the bone . 
The Buffalo tried hard for he didn't want the Mouse to be chief but it didn't do him any good for the Mouse won in the end . 
It was a fair game and the Mouse was chief under the agreement . 
He looked quite small among the rest but he walked right out to the centre of the council and said 'Listen , brothers what is mine to keep is mine to give away . 
I am too small to be your chief and I know it . 
I want to live in peace with my wife and fam ily . 
I know nothing of war . 
I get my living easily . 
I don't like to have enemies . 
I am going to give my right to be chief to the man that OLD man has made like himself . 
That made the man chief forever , and that is why he is greater than the animals and the birds . 
That is why we never kill the Mice people . 
You saw the Mice run into the buffalo skull , of course . 
There is where they have lived and brought up their families ever since the night the Mouse beat the Buffalo playing the bone game . 
Yes the Mice people al ways make their nests in the heads of the dead Buffalo people , ever since that night . 
Our people play the same game , even to day . 
See , and War Eagle took from his paint sack a small , polished bone . 
Then he sang just as OLD man did so long ago . 
He let the children try to guess the hand that held the bone , as the animal people did that fateful night but , like the animals , they al ways guessed wrong . 
Laughingly War Eagle said Now go to your beds and come to see me to morrow night . 
The children all stopped to say good night to little Sees in the dark , a brand new baby sister of Bluebird's then they all went to bed . 
He was smoking when we entered , but soon laid aside the pipe and said You know that the otter skin is big medi cine , no doubt . 
You have noticed that our warriors wear it sometimes and you know that we all think it very lucky to wear the skin of the Otter . 
But you don't know how it came to be great so I shall tell you . 
One time , long before my grandfather was born , a young man of our tribe was unlucky in everything . 
No woman wanted to marry him , because he couldn't kill enough meat to keep her in food and clothes . 
Whenever he went hunting , his bow always broke or he would lose his lance . 
If these things didn't happen , his horse would fall and hurt him . 
Everybody talked about him and his bad luck , and although he was fine looking , he had no close friends , because of his ill fortune . 
He tried to dream and get his medicine but no dream would come . 
He grew sour and people were sorry for him all the time . 
Finally his name was changed to 'The Unlucky one , which sounds bad to the ear . 
He used to wander about alone a good deal , and one morning he saw an old woman gathering wood by the side of a River . 
Everything goes wrong with me , always . 
I don't want to live any longer , for my heart is growing wicked . 
'Come with me , said the old woman , and he followed her until she told him to sit down . 
Then she said 'Listen to me . 
First you must learn a song to sing , and this is it . 
Then she sang a queer song over and over again until the young man had learned it well . 
'Now do what I tell you , and your heart shall be glad some day . 
She drew from her robe a pair of moccasins and a small sack of dried meat . 
'Here , she said , 'put these moccasins on your feet and take this sack of meat for food , for you must travel far . 
Go on down this river until you come to a great beaver village . 
Their lodges will be large and fine looking and you will know the village by the great size of the lodges . 
When you get to the place , you must stand still for a long time , and then sing the song I taught you . 
When you have finished the singing , a great white Beaver , chief of all the Beavers in the world , will come to you . 
He is wise and can tell you what to do to change your luck . 
After that I cannot help you but do what the white Beaver tells you , without asking why . 
Now go , and be brave ! The young man started at once . 
Long his steps were , for he was young and strong . 
His feet grew tired for he travelled day and night without resting , but his heart was brave and he believed what the old woman had told him . 
It was late on the third day when he came to a mighty beaver village and here the lodges were greater than any he had ever seen before . 
In the centre of the camp was a monstrous lodge built of great sticks and towering above the rest . 
All about , the ground was neat and clean and bare as your hand . 
You must be in trouble . 
'I am the Unlucky one , the young man replied . 
'I can do nothing well . 
I can find no woman who will marry me . 
In the hunt my bow will often break or my lance is poor . 
My medicine is bad and I cannot dream . 
The people do not love me , and they pity me as they do a sick child . 
The Coyote will do your bidding if you sing that song when you see him . 
That is all I can do for you , myself . 
On down the river the Unlucky one travelled and the sun was low in the west on the fourth day , when he saw the Coyote on a hillside near by . 
After looking at Coyote for a long time , the young man commenced to sing the song the old woman had taught him . 
'I am hungry , too , said the Unlucky one , 'for I have eaten all the dried meat the old woman gave me . 
Away went the Coyote to beg for meat , and while he was gone the young man bathed his tired feet in a cool creek . 
Soon the Coyote came back with meat , and young man built a fire and ate some of it , even before it was warm , for he was starving . 
When he had finished the Coyote said 'Now I shall take you to OLD man's lodge , come . 
They started , even though it was getting dark . 
Long they travelled without stopping over plains and mountains through great forests and across rivers , until they came to a cave in the rough rocks on the side of a mighty mountain . 
'In there , said the Coyote , 'you will find OLD man and he can tell you what you want to know . 
The Coyote had gone about his own business had silently slipped away in the night . 
Slowly and carefully the young man be gan to creep into the cave , feeling his way in the darkness . 
His heart was beating like a tom tom at a dance . 
Finally he saw a fire away back in the cave . 
The shadows danced about the stone sides of the cave as men say the ghosts do and they frightened him . 
But looking , he saw a man sitting on the far side of the fire . 
The man's hair was like the snow and very long . 
His face was wrinkled with the seams left by many years of life and he was naked in the firelight that played about him . 
Slowly the young man stood upon his feet and began to walk toward the fire with great fear in his heart . 
When he had reached the place where the firelight fell upon him , the OLD man looked up and said 'How , young man , I am OLD man . 
'Smoke , said OLD man , and passed the pipe to his visitor . 
After they had smoked OLD man said 'I will tell you what to do . 
On the top of this great mountain there live many ghost people and their chief is a great Owl . 
This Owl is the only one who knows how you can change your luck , and he will tell you if you are not afraid . 
Take this arrow and go among those people , without fear . 
Show them you are unarmed as soon as they see you . 
Now go ! Out into the night went the Unlucky one and on up the mountain . 
Drifts of snow were piled all about , and the wind gathered it up and hurled it at the young man as though it were angry at him . 
Then he heard strange singing all about him but for a long time there was no singer in sight . 
Finally the clouds parted and he saw a great circle of ghost people with large and ugly heads . 
In the centre of the circle there sat a mighty Owl their chief . 
I am not afraid of you . 
'Ho ! said the Owl chief , 'we kill no un armed man . 
Sit down , my son , and tell me what you want . 
Why do you come here ? You must be in trouble . 
You must smoke with me . 
'Good , said the Owl chief , 'I can help you , but first you must help yourself . 
It is a medicine bow then you will have a bow that will not break and an arrow that is good and straight . 
Now go down this mountain until you come to a river . 
It will be dark when you reach this river , but you will know the way . 
There will be a great cottonwood tree on the bank of the stream where you first come to the water . 
At this tree , you must turn down the stream and keep on travelling without rest , until you hear a splashing in the water near you . 
When you hear the splashing , you must shoot this arrow at the sound . 
Shoot quickly , for if you do not you can never have any good luck . 
If you do as I have told you the splasher will be killed and you must then take his hide and wear it always . 
The skin that the splasher wears will make you a lucky man . 
It will make anybody lucky and you may tell your people that it is so . 
'Now go , for it is nearly day and we must sleep . 
The young man took his bow and arrow and the stick the white Beaver had given him and started on his journey . 
All the day he travelled , and far into the night . 
At last he came to a river and on the bank he saw the great cottonwood tree , just as the ghost Owl had told him . 
At the tree the young man turned down the stream and in the dark easily found his way along the bank . 
Very soon he heard a great splashing in the water near him , and zipp he let the arrow go at the sound then all was still again . 
He stood and looked and listened , but for a long time could see nothing hear nothing . 
Then the moon came out from under a cloud and just where her light struck the river , he saw some animal floating dead . 
With the magic stick the young man walked out on the water , seized the animal by the legs and drew it ashore . 
It was an Otter , and the young man took his hide , right there . 
That night he dreamed and all was well with him . 
After days of travel he found his tribe again , and told what had happened . 
He be came a great hunter and a great chief among us . 
He married the most beautiful woman in the tribe and was good to her always . 
They had many children , and we remember his name as one that was great in war . 
That is all Ho ! OLD MAN STEALS THE SUN'S LEGGINGS Firelight what a charm it adds to story telling . 
Seated beside War Eagle was a very old Indian whose name was Red Robe , and as soon as I was seated . 
the host explained that he was an honored guest that he was a Sioux and a friend of long standing . 
In a lodge of the Blackfeet the pipe must never be passed across the doorway . 
To do so would insult the host and bring bad luck to all who assembled . 
Briefly War Eagle explained my presence to Red Robe and said Once the Moon made the Sun a pair of leggings . 
Such beautiful work had never been seen before . 
They were worked with the col ored quills of the Porcupine and were covered with strange signs , which none but the Sun and the Moon could read . 
No man ever saw such leggings as they were , and it took the Moon many snows to make them . 
Yes , they were wonderful leggings and the Sun always wore them on fine days , for they were bright to look upon . 
That thief and rascal was OLD man , and of course the Sun knew all about him . 
That is why he always put his fine leggings under his head when he slept . 
We have all travelled a great deal but no man ever found the Sun's lodge . 
No man knows in what country it is . 
Yes OLD man looked into the lodge of the Sun and saw the leggings there saw the Sun , too , and the Sun was asleep . 
He made up his mind that he would steal the leggings so he crept through the door of the lodge . 
The stick snapped under his weight with so great a noise that the Sun turned over and snorted , scaring OLD man so badly that he couldn't move for a minute . 
His heart was not strong wickedness makes every heart weaker and after making sure that the Sun had not seen him , he crept silently out of the lodge and ran away . 
On the top of a hill OLD man stopped to look and listen , but all was still so he sat down and thought . 
'I'll get them to morrow night when he sleeps again' he said to himself . 
'I need those leggings myself , and I'm going to get them , because they will make me handsome as the Sun . 
It was not long to wait , for all the OLD man had to do was to make mischief , and only those who have work to do measure time . 
He was close to the lodge when the Moon came out , and there he waited until the Sun went inside . 
Then he waited a while before creeping closer . 
Little by little the old rascal crawled toward the lodge , till finally his head was inside the door . 
Then he waited a long , long time , even after the Sun was snoring . 
Cautiously his fingers felt about the precious leggings until he knew just how they could best be removed without waking the Sun . 
His breath was short and his heart was beating as a war drum beats , in the black dark of the lodge . 
Carefully he crept out of the lodge , look ing over his shoulder as he went through the door . 
Then he ran away as fast as he could go . 
Over hills and valleys , across rivers and creeks , toward the east . 
He wasted much breath laughing at his smartness as he ran , and soon he grew tired . 
'Ho ! he said to himself , 'I am far enough now and I shall sleep . 
It's easy to steal from the Sun just as easy as stealing from the Bear or the Beaver . 
He folded the leggings and put them under his head as the Sun had done , and went to sleep . 
He had a dream and it waked him with a start . 
Bad deeds bring bad dreams to us all . 
OLD man sat up and there was the Sun looking right in his face and laughing . 
He was frightened and ran away , leaving the leggings behind him . 
Laughingly the Sun put on the leggings and went on toward the west , for he is al ways busy . 
Then he ran westward and hid himself near the Sun's lodge again , intending to wait for the night and steal the leggings a second time . 
He was much afraid this time , but as soon as the Sun was asleep he crept to the lodge and peeked inside . 
Here he stopped and looked about , for he was afraid the Sun would hear his heart beating . 
All about the lodge were beautiful linings , tanned and painted by the Moon , and the queer signs on them made the old coward tremble . 
Then he crept out of the lodge , talking bravely to himself as cowards do when they are afraid . 
'Now , he said to himself , 'I shall run faster and farther than before . 
When day began to break OLD man was far from the Sun's lodge and he hid himself in a deep gulch among some bushes that grew there . 
He listened a long time before he dared to go to sleep , but finally he did . 
OLD man started to run away but the Sun grabbed him and threw him down upon his back . 
Twice you have stolen the leggings my wife made for me , and twice I have found you easily . 
Now go , and don't let me catch you stealing again ! Away went OLD man , and on toward the west went the busy Sun . 
Now go to bed for I would talk of other things with my friend , who knows of war as I do . 
In this wonder ful range the Indians believe the winds are made , and that they battle for supremacy over Gunsight Pass . 
This elk creates the North wind by flapping one of his ears , and the South wind by the same use of his other . 
I am inclined to believe that the winds are made in that Pass , myself , for there they are seldom at rest , especially at this season of the year . 
To night the wind was blowing from the north , and filmy white clouds were driven across the face of the nearly full moon , mo mentarily veiling her light . 
Lodge poles creaked and strained at every heavy gust , and sparks from the fires inside the lodges sped down the wind , to fade and die . 
In his lodge War Eagle waited for us , and when we entered he greeted us warmly , but failed to mention the gale . 
I have been waiting , he said . 
You are late and the story I shall tell you is longer than many of the others . 
Without further delay the story telling commenced . 
Once OLD man came upon a lodge in the forest . 
It was a fine one , and painted with strange signs . 
Smoke was curling from the top , and thus he knew that the person who lived there was at home . 
Without calling or speaking , he entered the lodge and saw a man sitting by the fire smoking his pipe . 
The man didn't speak , nor did he offer his pipe to OLD man , as our people do when they are glad to see visitors . 
He didn't even look at his guest , but OLD man has no good manners at all . 
He couldn't see that he wasn't wanted , as he looked about the man's lodge and made himself at home . 
The linings were beautiful and were painted with fine skill . 
The lodge was clean and the fire was bright , but there was no woman about . 
Leaning against a fine back rest , OLD man filled his own pipe and lighted it with a coal from the man's fire . 
Then he began to smoke and look around , wondering why the man acted so queerly . 
He saw a star that shone down through the smoke hole , and the tops of several trees that were near the lodge . 
Then he saw a woman way up in a tree top and right over the lodge . 
She looked young and beautiful and tall . 
'Whose woman is that up there in the tree top ? asked OLD man . 
'She's your woman if you can catch her and will marry her , growled the man 'but you will have to live here and help me make a living . 
He went out of the lodge and climbed the tree after the woman . 
She screamed , but he caught her and held her , although she scratched him badly . 
He carried her into the lodge and there renewed his promise to stay there always . 
The man married them , and they were happy for four days , but on the fifth morning OLD man was gone gone with all the dried meat in the lodge the thief . 
When they were sure that the rascal had run away the woman began to cry , but not so the man . 
He got his bow and arrows and left the lodge in anger . 
There was snow on the ground and the man took the track of OLD man , intending to catch and kill him . 
The track was fresh and the man started on a run , for he was a good hunter and as fast as a Deer . 
Of course he gained on OLD man , who was a much slower traveller and the Sun was not very high when the old thief stopped on a hilltop to look back . 
He saw the man coming fast . 
'This will never do , he said to himself . 
'That queer person will catch me . 
I know what I shall do I shall turn myself into a dead Bull Elk and lie down . 
Then he will pass me and I can go where I please . 
He took off his moccasins and said to them 'Moccasins , go on toward the west . 
Keep going and making plain tracks in the snow toward the big water where the Sun sleeps . 
The queer one will follow you , and when you pass out of the snowy country , you can lose him . 
Go quickly for he is close upon us . 
The moccasins ran away as OLD man wanted them to , and they made plain tracks in the snow leading away toward the big water . 
OLD man turned into a dead Bull Elk and stretched himself near the tracks the moccasins had made . 
Up the hill came the man , his breath short from running . 
He saw the dead Elk , and thought it might be OLD man playing a trick . 
Of course he thought the moccasins were on OLD man's feet , and that the carcass was really that of a dead Elk . 
He was badly fooled and took the tracks again . 
On and on he went , following the moccasins over hills and rivers . 
Faster than before went the man , and still faster travelled the empty moccasins , the trail growing dimmer and dim mer as the daylight faded . 
All day long , and all of the night the man followed the tracks without rest or food , and just at day break he came to the shore of the big water . 
There , right by the water's edge , stood the empty moccasins , side by side . 
The man turned and looked back . 
His eyes were red and his legs were trembling . 
'Caw caw , caw , he heard a Crow say . 
Right over his head he saw the black bird and knew him , too . 
'Ho ! OLD man , you were in that dead Bull Elk . 
You fooled me , and now you are a Crow . 
You think you will escape me , do you ? Well , you will not for I , too , know magic , and am wise . 
With a stick the man drew a cricle in the sand . 
Then he stood within the ring and sang a song . 
OLD man was worried and watched the strange doings from the air over head . 
Inside the circle the man began to whirl about so rapidly that he faded from sight , and from the centre of the circle there came an Eagle . 
Straight at the Crow flew the Eagle , and away toward the mountains sped the Crow , in fright . 
The Eagle saw the change , and at once began turning over and over in the air . 
When he had reached the ground , in stead of an Eagle a Sparrow hawk chased the Wren . 
Now the chase was fast indeed , for no place could the Wren find in which to hide from the Sparrow hawk . 
Through the brush , into trees , among the weeds and grass , flew the Wren with the Hawk close behind . 
Once the Sparrow hawk picked a feather from the Wren's tail so close was he to his victim . 
It was nearly over with the Wren , when he suddenly came to a park along a river's side . 
In this park were a hundred lodges of our people , and before a fine lodge there sat the daughter of the chief . 
It was growing dark and chilly , but still she sat there looking at the river . 
The Sparrow hawk was striking at the Wren with his beak and talons , when the Wren saw the young woman and flew straight to her . 
This frightened her , and she ran inside the lodge , where the fire kept the shadows from coming . 
OLD man had changed into the ring , of course , and the Sparrow hawk didn't dare to go into the lodge so he stopped outside and listened . 
This is what he heard OLD man say 'Don't be frightened , young woman , I am neither a Wren nor a ring . 
I am OLD man and that Sparrow hawk has chased me all the day and for nothing . 
I have never done him harm , and he bothers me without reason . 
'Liar forked tongue , cried the Sparrow hawk . 
'Believe him not , young woman . 
He is wicked and I am not a Sparrow hawk , but conscience . 
Like an ar row I travel , straight and fast . 
When he lies or steals from his friends I follow him . 
I talk all the time and he hears me , but lies to himself , and says he does not hear . 
You know who I am , young woman , I am what talks inside a person . 
OLD man heard what the Sparrow hawk said , and he was ashamed for once in his life . 
He crawled out of the lodge . 
When ever that voice says a thing is wicked , it is wicked no matter who says it is not . 
Yes it is very hard for a man to hide from him self . 
Ho ! OLD MAN'S TREACHERY The next afternoon Muskrat and Fine Bow went hunting . 
They hid them selves in some brush which grew beside an old game trail that followed the river , and there waited for a chance deer . 
In perfect silence they watched and admired these little friends , while glance or smile conveyed their appreciation of the bird visits to each other . 
They had scarcely regained their compo sure and silence when , snap ! went a dry stick . 
The sharp sound sent a thrill through the hearts of the boys , and instantly they became rigidly watchful . 
Two hearts beat loudly as Fine Bow fitted his arrow to the bowstring . 
Yes , he had followed his mother along that trail when he was but a spotted fawn now he wore antlers , and was master of his own ways . 
On he came nearly to the brush that hid the hunters , when , throwing his beautiful head high in the air , he stopped , turning his side a trifle . 
Zipp went the arrow and , kicking out behind , away went the buck , crashing through willows and alders that grew in his way , until he was out of sight . 
Then all was still , save the chick a de de de , chick a de de de , that came constantly from the bushes about them . 
Out from the cover came the hunters , and with ready bow they followed along the trail . 
Yes there was blood on a log , and more on the dead leaves . 
The arrow had found its mark and they must go slowly in their trailing , lest they lose the meat . 
For two hours they followed the wounded animal , and at last came upon him in a willow thicket sick unto death , for the arrow was deep in his paunch . 
His sufferings were ended by another arrow , and the chase was done . 
With their knives the boys dressed the buck , and then went back to the camp to tell the women where the meat could be found just as the men do . 
It was their first deer and pride shone in their faces as they told their grandfather that night in the lodge . 
That is good , War Eagle replied , as the boys finished telling of their success . 
That is good , if your mother needed the meat , but it is wrong to kill when you have plenty , lest Manitou be angry . 
There is always enough , but none to waste , and the hunter who kills more than he needs is wicked . 
To night I shall tell you what happened to OLD man when he did that . 
Yes , and he got into trouble over it . 
Near sundown he saw two Buffalo Bulls feeding on a steep hillside but he had no bow and arrow with him . 
He was hungry , and began to think of some way to kill one of the Bulls for meat . 
Very soon he thought out a plan , for he is cunning always . 
He ran around the hill out of sight of the Bulls , and there made two men out of grass and sage brush . 
They were dummies , of course , but he made them to look just like real men , and then armed each with a wooden knife of great length . 
Then he set them in the position of fighting made them look as though they were about to fight each other with the knives . 
When he had them both fixed to suit , he ran back to the place where the Buffalo were calling 'Ho ! brothers , wait for me do not run away . 
There are two fine men on the other side of this hill , and they are quarrelling . 
They will surely fight unless we stop them . 
It all started over you two Bulls , too . 
One of the men says you are fat and fine , and the other claims you are poor and skinny . 
Don't let our brothers fight over such a foolish thing as that . 
Now I can decide it , if you will let me feel all over you to see if you are fat or poor . 
Then I will go back to the men and settle the trouble by tell ing them the truth . 
Stand still and let me feel your sides quick , lest the fight begin while I am away . 
'All right , said the Bulls , 'but don't you tickle us . 
Then OLD man walked up close and commenced to feel about the Bulls' sides but his heart was bad . 
Both of the Bulls died right away , and OLD man laughed at the trick he had played upon them . 
Then he gave a knife to both of his hands , and said 'Get to work , both of you ! Skin these Bulls while I sit here and boss you . 
Both hands commenced to skin the Buf falo , but the right hand was much the swifter worker . 
It gained upon the left hand rapidly , and this made the left hand angry . 
Finally the left hand called the right hand 'dog face . 
That is the very worst thing you can call a person in our language , you know , and of course it made the right hand angry . 
So crazy and angry was the right hand that it stabbed the left hand , and then they began to fight in earnest . 
Both cut and slashed till blood covered the animals they were skinning . 
All this fight ing hurt OLD man badly , of course , and he commenced to cry , as women do sometimes . 
This stopped the fight but still OLD man cried , till , drying his tears , he saw a Red Fox sitting near the Bulls , watching him . 
'Hi , there , you go away from there ! If you want meat you go and kill it , as I did . 
Told them that his own hands couldn't get along with themselves and that it would be easy to steal it from him . 
They all followed the Red Fox back to the place where OLD man was , and there they ate all of the meat every bit , and polished the bones . 
OLD man couldn't stop them , because he was hurt , you see but it all came about through lying and killing more meat than he needed . 
Yes he lied and that is bad , but his hands got to quarrelling between themselves , and family quarrels are always bad . 
Do not lie do not quarrel . 
Ho ! WHY THE NIGHT HAWK'S WINGS ARE BEAUTIFUL I was awakened by the voice of the camp crier , and although it was yet dark I listened to his message . 
The camp was to move . 
On through the camp the crier rode , and behind him the lodge fires glowed in answer to his call . 
Fires flickered in the now fading darkness , and down came the lodges as though wizard hands had touched them . 
Before the sun had come to light the world , we were on our way to The River That Scolds at the Other . 
Not a cloud was in the sky , and the wind was still . 
The sun came and touched the plains and hilltops with the light that makes all wild things glad . 
Here and there a jack rabbit scurried away , often followed by a pack of dogs , and sometimes , though not often , they were overtaken and devoured on the spot . 
So the day wore on , the scene constantly changing as we travelled . 
Wolves and coyotes looked at us from almost every knoll and hill top and sage hens sneaked to cover among the patches of sage brush , scarcely ten feet away from our ponies . 
Toward sundown we reached a grove of cottonwoods near the mouth of the Maria's , and in an incredibly short space of time the lodges took form . 
Soon , from out the tops of a hundred camps , smoke was curling just as though the lodges had been there always , and would forever remain . 
As soon as supper was over I found the children , and together we sought War Eagle's lodge . 
He was in a happy mood and insisted upon smoking two pipes before commencing his story telling . 
At last he said To night I shall tell you why the Night hawk wears fine clothes . 
My grandfather told me about it when I was young . 
I am sure you have seen the Night hawk sailing over you , dipping and making that strange noise . 
Of course there is a reason for it . 
OLD man was travelling one day in the springtime but the weather was fine for that time of year . 
He stopped often and spoke to the bird people and to the animal people , for he was in good humor that day . 
He talked pleasantly with the trees , and his heart grew tender . 
That is , he had good thoughts and of course they made him happy . 
Finally he felt tired and sat down to rest on a big , round stone the kind of stone our white friend there calls a bowlder . 
Here he rested for a while , but the stone was cold , and he felt it through his robe so he said 'Stone , you seem cold to day . 
You may have my robe . 
I have hundreds of robes in my camp , and I don't need this one at all . 
That was a lie he told about having so many robes . 
All he had was the one he wore . 
He spread his robe over the stone , and then started down the hill , naked , for it was really a fine day . 
But storms hide in the mountains , and are never far away when it is springtime . 
Soon it began to snow then the wind blew from the north with a good strength behind it . 
OLD man said 'Well , I guess I do need that robe myself , after all . 
That stone never did anything for me anyhow . 
Nobody is ever good to a stone . 
I'll just go back and get my robe . 
Back he went and found the stone . 
Then he pulled the robe away , and wrapped it about himself . 
Ho ! but that made the stone angry Ho ! OLD man started to run down the hill , and the stone ran after him . 
It was a big stone , you see , and OLD man couldn't move it at all . 
He tried to throw off the stone but failed . 
He squirmed and twisted no use the stone held him fast . 
He called the stone some names that are not good but that never helps any . 
Then he came down straight and struck that rock an awful blow 'swow ! and broke it in two pieces . 
The blow was so great that it spoiled the Night hawk's bill , forever made it queer in shape , and jammed his head , so that it is queer , too . 
But he broke the rock , and OLD man stood upon his feet . 
'Thank you , Brother Night hawk , said OLD man , 'now I will do something for you . 
I am going to make you different from other birds make you so people will always notice you . 
All the Night hawk's children dress the same way now and they always will as long as there are Night hawks . 
Of course their clothes make them proud and that is why they keep at flying over people's heads soaring and dipping and turning all the time , to show off their pretty wings . 
That is all for to night . 
Looking toward the east they are boundless , but on their western edge superb mountains rear themselves . 
As the Indian is slow to forget or change the ways of his father , we should pause before we brand him as wholly improvident , I think . 
He has always been a family man , has the Indian , and small children had to be carried , as well as his camp equipage . 
The Crows have stolen some of our best horses , said War Eagle , as soon as the other guests had gone . 
That is all right we shall get them back , and more , too . 
The Crows have only borrowed those horses and will pay for their use with others of their own . 
To night I shall tell you why the Mountain lion is so long and thin and why he wears hair that looks singed . 
I shall also tell you why that person's nose is black , because it is part of the story . 
A long time ago the Mountain lion was a short , thick set person . 
I am sure you didn't guess that . 
He was always a great thief like OLD man , but once he went too far , as you shall see . 
One day OLD man was on a hilltop , and saw smoke curling up through the trees , away off on the far side of a gulch . 
'Ho ! he said , 'I wonder who builds fires except me . 
I guess I will go and find out . 
He crossed the gulch and crept carefully toward the smoke . 
When he got quite near where the fire was , he stopped and listened . 
He heard some loud laughing but could not see who it was that felt so glad and gay . 
Finally he crawled closer and peeked through the brush toward the fire . 
Then he saw some Squirrel people , and they were playing some sort of game . 
They were running and laugh ing , and having a big time , too . 
What do you think they were doing ? They were run ning about the fire all chasing one Squirrel . 
As soon as the Squirrel was caught , they would bury him in the ashes near the fire until he cried then they would dig him out in a hurry . 
Then another Squirrel would take the lead and run until he was caught , as the other had been . 
In turn the captive would sub mit to being buried , and so on while the racing and laughing continued . 
They never left the buried one in the ashes after he cried , but always kept their promise and dug him out , right away . 
'Say , let me play , won't you ? asked OLD man . 
But the Squirrel people all ran away , and he had a hard time getting them to return to the fire . 
'You can't play this game , replied the Chief Squirrel , after they had returned to the fire . 
'All right , said the Chief Squirrel , 'we will let you play . 
Lie down , and OLD Man did lie down near the fire . 
Then the Squirrels began to laugh and bury OLD man in the ashes , as they did their own kind . 
In no time at all OLD man cried 'Ouch ! you are burning me quick ! dig me out . 
True to their promise , the Squirrel people dug OLD man out of the ashes , and laughed at him because he cried so quickly . 
All of you lie down at once in a row . 
Then I will cover you all at one time . 
When you cry I will dig you out right away and the game will be over . 
They didn't know OLD man very well so they said , 'all right , and then they all laid down in a row about the fire . 
OLD man buried them all in the ashes then he threw some more wood on the fire and went away and left them . 
Every Squirrel there was in the world was buried in the ashes except one woman Squirrel , and she told OLD man she couldn't play and had to go home . 
If she hadn't gone , there might not be any Squirrels in this world right now . 
Yes , it is lucky that she went home . 
When he had finished making the plate , he returned to the fire , and it had burned low again . 
He laughed at his wicked work , and a Raven , flying over just then , called him 'forked tongue , or liar , but he didn't mind that at all . 
OLD man cut a long stick and began to dig out the Squirrel people . 
One by one he fished them out of the hot ashes and they were roasted fine and were ready to eat . 
As he fished them out he counted them , and laid them on the willow plate he had made . 
When he had dug out the last one , he took the plate to the creek and there sat down to eat the Squirrels , for he was hungry , as usual . 
OLD man is a big eater , but he couldn't eat all of the Squirrels at once , and while eating he fell asleep with the great plate in his lap . 
Nobody knows how long it was that he slept , but when he waked his plate of Squirrels was gone gone completely . 
He looked be hind him he looked about him but the plate was surely gone . 
Ho ! But he was angry . 
He stamped about in the brush and called aloud to those who might hear him but no body answered , and then he started to look for the thief . 
OLD man has sharp eyes , and he found the trail in the grass where somebody had passed while he slept . 
'Ho ! he said , 'the Mountain lion has stolen my Squirrels . 
At last he came to a place where the grass was all bent down , and there he found his willow plate , but it was empty . 
The Mountain lion had eaten so much that he was sleepy and , after travelling a while after he had eaten the Squirrels , he thought he would rest . 
He hadn't intended to go to sleep but he crawled upon a big stone near the foot of a hill and sat down where he could see a long way . 
Here his eyes began to wink , and his head began to nod , and finally he slept . 
Without stopping once , OLD man kept on the trail . 
That is what counts sticking right to the thing you are doing and just before sundown OLD man saw the sleeping Lion . 
Little by little he crept to the stone where the Mountain lion was dreaming , and at last grabbed him by the tail . 
It wasn't much of a tail then , but enough for OLD man to hold to . 
Ho ! The Lion was scared and begged hard , saying 'Spare me , OLD man . 
You were full and I was hungry . 
I had to have something to eat had to get my living . 
Please let me go and do not hurt me . 
Ho ! OLD man was angry more angry than he was when he waked and found that he had been robbed , because he had travelled so far on his hands and knees . 
I'll fix you , right now . 
He squalled and cried , but OLD man kept pulling until he nearly broke the Mountain lion in two pieces until he couldn't stretch him any more . 
Then OLD man put his foot on the Mountain lion's back , and , still holding the tail , stretched that out until the tail was nearly as long as the body . 
'There , you thief now you are too long and lean to get fat , and you shall always look just like that . 
Your children shall all grow to look the same way , just to pay you for your stealing from the man that made you . 
Then OLD man stuck the Lion's nose against the burnt logs and blackened it some that is why his face looks as it does to day . 
Then he said , 'go now , and remember all the Mountain lions that ever live shall look just as you do . 
Ho ! THE FIRE LEGGINGS There had been a sudden change in the weather . 
A cold rain was falling , and the night comes early when the clouds hang low . 
The children loved a bright fire , and to night War Eagle's lodge was light as day . 
Away off on the plains a wolf was howling , and the rain pattered upon the lodge as though it never intended to quit . 
It was a splendid night for story telling , and War Eagle filled and lighted the great stone pipe , while the children made themselves comfortable about the fire . 
A spark sprang from the burning sticks , and fell upon Fine Bow's bare leg . 
They all laughed heartily at the boy's antics to rid himself of the burning coal and as soon as the laughing ceased War Eagle laid aside the pipe . 
An Indian's pipe is large to look at , but holds little tobacco . 
See your shadows on the lodge wall ? asked the old warrior . 
It was long before there were men and women on the world , but my grandfather told me what I shall now tell you . 
The gray light that hides the night stars was creeping through the forests , and the wind the Sun sends to warn the people of his coming was among the fir tops . 
Where the tall ferns grew , the Doe waked her Fawns , and taught them to do homage to the Great Light . 
Pine squirrels chattered gayly , and loudly proclaimed what the wind had told and all the shadows were preparing for a great journey to the Sand Hills , where the ghost people dwell . 
Under a great spruce tree where the ground was soft and dry , OLD man slept . 
The joy that thrilled creation disturbed him not , although the Sun was near . 
The bird people looked at the sleeper in wonder , but the Pine squirrel climbed the great spruce tree with a pine cone in his mouth . 
Quickly he ran out on the limb that spread over OLD man , and dropped the cone on the sleeper's face . 
Then he scolded OLD man , saying 'Get up get up lazy one lazy one get up get up . 
'Ho , Sun ! called OLD man , 'those are mighty leggings you wear . 
No wonder you are a great hunter . 
Your leggings set fire to all the thick ets , and by the light you can easily see the Deer and Elk they cannot hide . 
Ho ! Give them to me and I shall then be the great hunter and never be hungry . 
'Good , said the Sun , 'take them , and let me see you wear my leggings . 
He put on the leggings and at once began to hunt the thickets , for he was hungry . 
Very soon the leggings began to burn his legs . 
The faster he travelled the hotter they grew , until in pain he cried out to the Sun to come and take back his leggings but the Sun would not hear him . 
On and on OLD man ran . 
Faster and faster he flew through the country , setting fire to the brush and grass as he passed . 
Finally he came to a great river , and jumped in . 
Sizzzzzzz the water said , when OLD man's legs touched it . 
It cried out , as it does when it is sprinkled upon hot stones in the sweat lodge , for the leggings were very hot . 
But standing in the cool water OLD man took off the leggings and threw them out upon the shore , where the Sun found them later in the day . 
The Sun's clothes were too big for OLD man , and his work too great . 
We should never ask to do the things which Manitou did not intend us to do . 
If we keep this always in mind we shall never get into trouble . 
That is what Man tou intended . 
Never blame the Wolf for what he does . 
He was made to do such things . 
Now I want you to go to your fathers' lodges and sleep . 
To morrow night I will tell you why there are so many snakes in the world . 
A cottontail ran into a clump of wild rose bushes near War Eagle's lodge , and some dogs were close behind the frightened animal , as he gained cover . 
Little Buffalo Calf threw a stone into the bushes , scaring the rabbit from his hiding place , and away went bunny , followed by the yelping pack . 
We stood and listened until the noise of the chase died away , and then went into the lodge , where we were greeted , as usual , by War Eagle . 
To night he smoked but with greater cere mony , and I suspected that it had something to do with the forthcoming story . 
Finally he said You have seen many Snakes , I suppose ? Yes , replied the children , we have seen a great many . 
In the summer we see them every day . 
Well , continued the story teller , once there was only one Snake on the whole world , and he was a big one , I tell you . 
He was pretty to look at , and was painted with all the colors we know . 
This snake was proud of his clothes and had a wicked heart . 
Most Snakes are wicked , because they are his relations . 
You know that the Sun goes early to bed , and that the Moon most always leaves before he gets to the lodge . 
Sometimes this is not so , but that is part of another story . 
This big Snake used to crawl up a high hill and watch the Moon in the sky . 
He was in love with her , and she knew it but she paid no attention to him . 
She liked his looks , for his clothes were fine , and he was always slick and smooth . 
This went on for a long time , but she never talked to him at all . 
The Snake thought maybe the hill wasn't high enough , so he found a higher one , and watched the Moon pass , from the top . 
Every night he climbed this high hill and motioned to her . 
She began to pay more attention to the big Snake , and one morning early , she loafed at her work a little , and spoke to him . 
He was flattered , and so was she , because he said many nice things to her , but she went on to the Sun's lodge , and left the Snake . 
He wondered what kept her so long , and became suspicious of the Snake . 
He made up his mind to watch , and try to catch them together . 
So every morning the Sun left the lodge a little earlier than before and one morning , just as he climbed a mountain , he saw the big Snake talking to the Moon . 
That made him angry , and you can't blame him , because his wife was spending her time loafing with a Snake . 
She ran away ran to the Sun's lodge and left the Snake on the hill . 
In no time the Sun had grabbed him . 
The little pieces each turned into a little snake , just as you see them now , but they were all too small for the Moon to notice after that . 
That is how so many Snakes came into the world and that is why they are all small , nowadays . 
I am tired to night , and I will ask that you go to your lodges , that I may sleep , for I am getting old . 
Yes , and let us ask mother if the Deer has no gall on its liver . 
Maybe she can show both the liver of a Deer and that of an Antelope then we can see for ourselves , said Blue bird . 
So they began to look about where the hides had been grained for tanning and sure enough , there were the feet of both the antelope and the deer . 
On the deer's feet , or legs , they found the dew claws , but on the antelope there were none . 
This made them all anxious to know why these animals , so nearly alike , should differ in this way . 
See for yourselves that this thing is true , before I tell you why it is so , and how it hap pened . 
We see , they replied , and to day we found that these strange things are true , but we don't know why , grandfather . 
Of course you don't know why . 
Nobody knows that until he is told , and now I shall tell you , so you will always know , and tell your children , that they , too , may know . 
It was long , long ago , of course . 
All these things happened long ago when the world was young , as you are now . 
It was on a summer morning , and the Deer was travelling across the plains country to reach the mountains on the far off side , where he had relatives . 
He grew thirsty , for it was very warm , and stopped to drink from a water hole on the plains . 
When he had finished drinking he looked up , and there was his own cousin , the Antelope , drinking near him . 
'Good morning , cousin , said the Deer . 
What shall it be ? 'I will bet you my gall sack , replied the Antelope . 
'Good , said the Deer , 'but let us run to ward that range of mountains , for I am going that way , anyhow , to see my relations . 
'All right , said the Antelope . 
'All ready , and here we go . 
Away they ran toward the far off range . 
All the way the Antelope was far ahead of the Deer and just at the foot of the mountains he stopped to wait for him to catch up . 
Both were out of breath from running , but both declared they had done their best , and the Deer , being beaten , gave the Antelope his sack of gall . 
'This ground is too flat for me , said the Deer . 
'Come up the hillside where the gulches cut the country , and rocks are in our way , and I will show you how to run . 
I can't run on flat ground . 
It's too easy for me . 
another race with you on your own ground , and I think I can beat you there , too . 
Together they climbed the hill until they reached a rough country , when the Deer said 'This is my kind of country . 
Let us run a race here . 
Whoever gets ahead and stays there , must keep on running until the other calls on him to stop . 
'That suits me , replied the Antelope , 'but what shall we bet this time ? I don't want to waste my breath for nothing . 
I'll tell you let us bet our dew claws . 
I'll bet you my dew claws against your own , that I can beat you again . 
Are you all ready ? Go ! Away they went over logs , over stones and across great gulches that cut the hills in two . 
On and on they ran , with the Deer far ahead of the Antelope . 
Both were getting tired , when the Antelope called 'Hi , there you ! Stop , you can beat me . 
That is all of that story , but it is too late to tell you another to night . 
If you will come to morrow evening , I will tell you of some trouble that OLD man got into once . 
He deserved it , for he was wicked , as you shall see . 
The sun is not the Indian's God , but a per sonification of the Deity His greatest mani festation His light . 
These wonderful gifts , he knew , were bestowed as favors by a common God , and therefore he re vered these powers , and , without jealousy , paid tribute thereto . 
The bear was great in war , because before the horse came , he would sometimes charge the camps and kill or wound many people . 
Al though many arrows were sent into his huge carcass , he seldom died . 
Hence the Indian was sure that the bear could heal his wounds . 
That the bear possessed a great knowledge of roots and berries , the Indian knew , for he often saw him digging the one and stripping the oth ers from the bushes . 
The buffalo , the beaver , the wolf , and the eagle each possessed strange powers that commanded the Indian's admira tion and respect , as did many other things in creation . 
If about to go to war , the Indian did not ask his God for aid oh , no . 
He realized that God made his enemy , too and that if He de sired that enemy's destruction , it would be ac complished without man's aid . 
Whenever the Indian addressed the Great God , his prayer was for life , and life alone . 
He is the most religious man I have ever known , as well as the most superstitious and there are stories dealing with his religious faith that are startling , indeed . 
OLD man was the one who started it , and our people have followed his example ever since . 
Ho ! OLD man made a fool of himself that day . 
It was the time when buffalo berries are red and ripe . 
He was travelling along a river , and hungry , as he always was . 
Standing on the bank of that river , he saw great clusters of red , ripe buffalo berries in the water . 
They were larger than any berries he had ever seen , and he said 'I guess I will get those berries . 
They look fine , and I need them . 
Besides , some of the people will see them and get them , if I don't . 
He jumped into the water looked for the berries but they were not there . 
For a time Old man stood in the river and looked for the berries , but they were gone . 
'Ho ! that is a funny thing . 
I wonder where they hid that time . 
I must have those berries ! he said to himself . 
In he went again splashing the water like a Grizzly Bear . 
He looked about him and the berries were gone again . 
The water was rip pling about him , but there were no berries at all . 
He felt on the bottom of the river but they were not there . 
'Well , he said , 'I will climb out and watch to see where they come from then I shall grab them when I hit the water next time . 
He did that but he couldn't tell where the berries came from . 
As soon as the water settled and became smooth there were the berries the same as before . 
Ho ! OLD man was wild he was angry , I tell you . 
And in he went flat on his stomach ! He made an awful splash and mussed the water greatly but there were no berries . 
'I know what I shall do . 
I will stay right here and wait for those berries that is what I shall do' and he did . 
He thought maybe somebody was looking at him and would laugh , so he glanced along the bank . 
And there , right over the water , he saw the same bunch of berries on some tall bushes . 
Don't you see ? OLD man saw the shadow of the berry bunch not the berries . 
He saw the red shadow berries on the water that was all , and he was such a fool he didn't know they were not real . 
Well , now he was angry in truth . 
Now he was ready for war . 
He climbed out on the bank again and cut a club . 
Then he went at the buffalo berry bushes and pounded them till all of the red berries fell upon the ground till the branches were bare of berries . 
'There , he said , 'that's what you get for making a fool of the man who made you . 
You shall be beaten every year as long as you live , to pay for what you have done you and your children , too . 
That is how it all came about , and that is why your mothers whip the buffalo berry bushes and then pick the berries from the ground . 
Ho ! OLD MAN AND THE FOX I am sure that the plains Indian never made nor used the stone arrow head . 
One night I asked War Eagle if he had ever known the use , by Indians , of the stone arrow head , and he said he had not . 
He told me that just across the Canadian line there was a small lake , surrounded by trees , wherein there was an island covered with long reeds and grass . 
All about the edge of this island were willows that grew nearly to the water , but intervening there was a narrow beach of stones . 
No , he said , I shall not lie to you , my friend . 
Besides , nobody could ever sleep on that island . 
The bow of the plains Indian was from thirty six to forty four inches long , and made from the wood of the choke cherry tree . 
berry bush , and this bush furnished the best material for arrows . 
I have seen hickory bows among the plains Indians , too , and these were longer and always straight , instead of being fashioned like Cupid's weapon . 
These hickory bows came from the East , of course , and through trading , reached the plains country . 
It was early when we gathered in War Eagle's lodge , the children and I , but the story telling began at once . 
Now I shall tell you a story that will show you how little OLD man cared for the welfare of others , said War Eagle . 
It happened in the fall , this thing I shall tell you , and the day was warm and bright . 
OLD man and his brother the Red Fox were trav elling together for company . 
They were on a hillside when OLD Man said 'I am hungry . 
Can you not kill a Rabbit or something for us to eat ? The way is long , and I am getting old , you know . 
You are swift of foot and cunning , and there are Rabbits among these rocks . 
'Ever since morning came I have watched for food , but the moon must be wrong or some thing , for I see nothing that is good to eat , replied the Fox . 
'Besides that , my medicine is bad and my heart is weak . 
You are great , and I have heard you can do most anything . 
Many snows have known your footprints , and the snows make us all wise . 
I think you are the one to help , not I. 'Listen , brother , said OLD man , 'I have neither bow nor lance nothing to use in hunt ing . 
Your weapons are ever with you your great nose and your sharp teeth . 
Just as we came up this hill I saw two great Buffalo Bulls . 
You were not looking , but I saw them , and if you will do as I want you to we shall have plenty of meat . 
This is my scheme I shall pull out all of your hair , leaving your body white and smooth , like that of the fish . 
I shall leave only the white hair that grows on the tip of your tail , and that will make you funny to look at . 
Then you are to go before the Bulls and commence to dance and act foolish . 
Of course the Bulls will laugh at you , and as soon as they get to laughing you must act sillier than ever . 
That will make them laugh so hard that they will fall down and laugh on the ground . 
When they fall , I shall come upon them with my knife and kill them . 
Will you do as I suggest , brother , or will you starve ? 'What ! Pull out my hair ? I shall freeze with no hair on my body , OLD man . 
No I will not suffer you to pull my hair out when the winter is so near , cried the Fox . 
'Ho ! It is vanity , my brother , not fear of freezing . 
If you will do this we shall have meat for the winter , and a fire to keep us warm . 
See , the wind is in the south and warm . 
There is no danger of freezing . 
Come , let me do it , replied OLD man . 
'Well if you are sure that I won't freeze , all right , said the Fox , 'but I'll bet I'll be sorry . 
So Old man pulled out all of the Fox's hair , leaving only the white tip that grew near the end of his tail . 
Poor little Red Fox shivered in the warm breeze that OLD man told about , and kept telling OLD man that the hair pulling hurt badly . 
Finally OLD man finished the job and laughed at the Fox , saying 'Why , you make me laugh , too . 
Now go and dance before the Bulls , and I shall watch and be ready for my part of the scheme . 
Around the hill went the poor Red Fox and found the Bulls . 
Then he began to dance be fore them as OLD man had told him . 
The Bulls took one look at the hairless Fox and began to laugh . 
My ! How they did laugh , and then the Red Fox stood upon his hind legs and danced some more acted sillier , as OLD man had told him . 
Louder and louder laughed the Bulls , until they fell to the ground with their breath short from the laughing . 
The Red Fox kept at his antics lest the Bulls get up before OLD man reached them but soon he saw him coming , with a knife in his hand . 
Running up to the Bulls , OLD man plunged his knife into their hearts , and they died . 
Into the ground ran their blood , and then OLD man laughed and said 'Ho , I am the smart one . 
I am the real hunter . 
I depend on my head for meat ha ! ha ! ha ! Then OLD man began to dress and skin the Bulls , and he worked hard and long . 
In fact it was nearly night when he got the work all done . 
Poor little Red Fox had stood there all the time , and OLD man never noticed that the wind had changed and was coming from the north . 
Yes , poor Red Fox stood there and spoke no word said nothing at all , even when OLD man had finished . 
Yes , the north wind had killed him while OLD man worked at the skinning . 
The Fox had been caught by the north wind naked , and was dead . 
OLD man built a fire and warmed his hands that was all he cared for the Red Fox , and that is all he cared for anybody . 
He might have known that no person could stand the north wind without a robe but as long as he was warm himself that was all he wanted . 
That is all of that story . 
To morrow night I shall tell you why the birch tree wears those slashes in its bark . 
That was some of OLD man's work , too . 
And I don't blame him . 
The Indian is a charitable man . 
I don't be lieve he ever refused food and shelter or abused a visitor . 
He has never been a bigot , and con cedes to every other man the right to his own beliefs . 
Further than that , the Indian believes that every man's religion and belief is right and proper for that man's self . 
It was blowing a gale and snow was being driven in fine flakes across the plains when we went to the lodge for a story . 
Every minute the weather was growing colder , and an early fall storm of severity was upon us . 
The wind seemed to add to the good nature of our host as he filled and passed me the pipe . 
This is the night I was to tell you about the Birch Tree , and the wind will help to make you understand , said War Eagle after we had finished smoking . 
Of course , he continued , this all happened in the summer time when the weather was warm , very warm . 
Sometimes , you know , there are great winds in the summer , too . 
It was a hot day , and OLD man was trying to sleep , but the heat made him sick . 
He wan dered to a hilltop for air but there was no air . 
Then he went down to the river and found no relief . 
He travelled to the timber lands , and there the heat was great , although he found plenty of shade . 
The travelling made him warmer , of course , but he wouldn't stay still . 
By and by he called to the winds to blow , and they commenced . 
So , of course , the winds did blow harder harder than they ever had blown before . 
'Bend and break , Fir Tree ! cried OLD man , and the Fir Tree did bend and break . 
'Bend and break , Pine Tree ! and the Pine Tree did bend and break . 
'Bend and break , Spruce Tree ! and the Spruce Tree did bend and break . 
It bent to the ground it bent double to please OLD man , but it would not break . 
'Blow harder , wind ! cried OLD man , 'blow harder and break the Birch Tree . 
The wind tried to blow harder , but it couldn't , and that made the thing worse , because OLD man was so angry he went crazy . 
'Break ! I tell you break ! screamed OLD man to the Birch Tree . 
'I won't break , replied the Birch 'I shall never break for any wind . 
I will bend , but I shall never , never break . 
'You won't , hey ? cried OLD man , and he rushed at the Birch Tree with his hunting knife . 
He grabbed the top of the Birch because it was touching the ground , and began slashing the bark of the Birch Tree with the knife . 
All up and down the trunk of the tree OLD man slashed , until the Birch was covered with the knife slashes . 
'There ! that is for not minding me . 
That will do you good ! As long as time lasts you shall always look like that , Birch Tree always be marked as one who will not mind its maker . 
Yes , and all the Birch Trees in the world shall have the same marks forever . 
You have seen them and have wondered why the Birch Tree is so queerly marked . 
That is all Ho ! MISTAKES OF OLD MAN All night the storm raged , and in the morning the plains were white with snow . 
The sun came and the light was blinding , but the hunters were abroad early , as usual . 
That day the children came to my camp , and I told them several stories that appeal to white children . 
They were deeply interested , and asked many questions . 
Not until the hunters returned did my visitors leave . 
That night War Eagle told us of the mistakes of OLD man . 
He said OLD man made a great many mistakes in making things in the world , but he worked un til he had everything good . 
I told you at the beginning that OLD man made mistakes , but I didn't tell you what they were , so now I shall tell you . 
One of the things he did that was wrong , was to make the Big Horn to live on the plains . 
Yes , he made him on the plains and turned him loose , to make his living there . 
Of course the Big Horn couldn't run on the plains , and OLD man wondered what was wrong . 
Finally , he said 'Come here , Big Horn ! and the Big Horn came to him . 
OLD man stuck his arm through the circle his horns made , and dragged the Big Horn far up into the mountains . 
There he set him free again , and sat down to watch him . 
Ho ! It made OLD man dizzy to watch the Big Horn run about on the ragged cliffs . 
He saw at once that this was the country the Big Horn liked , and he left him there . 
Yes , he left him there forever , and there he stays , seldom coming down to the lower country . 
While OLD man was waiting to see what the Big Horn would do in the high mountains , he made an Antelope and set him free with the Big Horn . 
Ho ! But the Antelope stumbled and fell down among the rocks . 
He couldn't man called to the Antelope to come back to him , and the Antelope did come to him . 
Then he called to the Big Horn , and said 'You are all right , I guess , but this one isn't , and I'll have to take him somewhere else . 
He dragged the Antelope down to the prairie country , and set him free there . 
Then he watched him a minute that was as long as the Antelope was in sight , for he was afraid OLD man might take him back to the mountains . 
He said 'I guess that fellow was made for the plains , all right , so I'll leave him there' and he did . 
That is why the Antelope always stays on the plains , even to day . 
That wasn't a very long story sometime when you get older I will tell you some dif ferent stories , but that will be all for this time , I guess . 
Ho ! HOW THE MAN FOUND HIS MATE Each tribe has its own stories . 
Most of them deal with the same subjects , differing only in immaterial particulars . 
Instead of squirrels in the timber , the Black feet are sure they were prairie dogs that OLD man roasted that time when he made the mountain lion long and lean . 
Some tribes will not wear the feathers of the owl , nor will they have anything to do with that bird , while others use his feathers freely . 
'No , replied the Bear , 'I can't catch a fish . 
It was mighty cold weather , and the water froze all about the Bear's tail , yet he sat still , waiting for the Fox to call him . 
Yes , the Bear sat so still and so long that his tail was frozen in the ice , but he didn't know it . 
Ho ! The Bear tried to get up , but he couldn't . 
'Hey , Bear , come here there are two Rabbits in this hole , called the Fox . 
The Bear pulled so hard to get away from the ice , that he broke his tail off short to his body . 
Then the Fox ran away laughing at the Bear . 
I hardly believe that story , but once I heard an old man who visited my father from the country far east of here , tell it . 
But I can't say that I know it is true , as I can the others . 
There is another story of how the first man found his wife , and I will tell you that . 
After OLD man had made a man to look like himself , he left him to live with the Wolves , and went away . 
The man had a hard time of it , with no clothes to keep him warm , and no wife to help him , so he went out looking for OLD man . 
I don't like them at all . 
They give me scraps of meat to eat and won't build a fire . 
They have wives , but I don't want a Wolf woman . 
I think you should take better care of me . 
'Well , replied OLD man , 'I was just waiting for you to come to see me . 
I have things fixed for you . 
You go down this river until you come to a steep hillside . 
There you will see a lodge . 
Then I will leave you to do the rest . 
Go ! The man started and travelled all that day . 
When night came he camped and ate some berries that grew near the river . 
The next morning he started down the river again , looking for the steep hillside and the lodge . 
Sitting by the fire inside , was a woman . 
He kept this up until one of the largest rocks knocked down the lodge , and the woman ran out , crying . 
When the man heard the woman crying , it made him sorry and he ran down the hill to her . 
She sat down on the ground , and the man ran to where she was and said 'I am sorry I made you cry , woman . 
I will help you fix your lodge . 
I will stay with you , if you will only let me . 
That pleased the woman , and she showed the man how to fix up the lodge and gather some wood for the fire . 
Then she let him come inside and eat . 
Finally , she made him some clothes , and they got along very well , after that . 
That is how the man found his wife Ho ! DREAMS As soon as manhood is attained , the young Indian must secure his charm , or medi cine . 
After a sweat bath , he retires to some lonely spot , and there , for four days and nights , if necessary , he remains in solitude . 
During this time he eats nothing drinks nothing but spends his time invoking the Great Mystery for the boon of a long life . 
In this state of mind , he at last sleeps , perhaps dreams . 
If a dream does not come to him , he abandons the task for a time , and later on will take another sweat bath and try again . 
At last the dream comes , and in it some bird or animal appears as a helper to the dreamer , in trouble . 
Then he seeks that bird or animal kills a specimen and if a bird , he stuffs its skin with moss and forever keeps it near him . 
If this happens , he discards the old medicine for the new but such cases are rare . 
But medi cine is necessary without it , the Indian is afraid of his shadow . 
An old chief , who had been in many battles , once told me his great dream , withholding the name of the animal or bird that appeared therein and became his medicine . 
He said that when he was a boy of twelve years , his father , who was chief of his tribe , told him that it was time that he tried to dream . 
By signs the father told the boy to climb the tree and to get into an eagle's nest that was on the topmost boughs . 
Then the old man went away , in order that the boy might reach the nest without coming too close to his human conductor . 
Obediently the boy climbed the tree and sat upon the eagle's nest on the top . 
I could see very far from that nest , he told me . 
The day was warm and I hoped to dream that night , but the wind rocked the tree top , and the darkness made me so much afraid that I did not sleep . 
On the fourth night there came a terrible thunder storm , with lightning and much wind . 
The great pine groaned and shook until I was sure it must fall . 
All about it , equally strong trees went down with loud crashings , and in the dark there were many awful sounds sounds that I sometimes hear yet . 
Rain came , and I grew cold and more afraid . 
I had eaten noth ing , of course , and I was weak so weak and tired , that at last I slept , in the nest . 
I dreamed yes , it was a wonderful dream that came to me , and it has most all come to pass . 
Part is yet to come . 
But come it surely will . 
First I saw my own people in three wars . 
Then I saw the Buffalo disappear in a hole in the ground , followed by many of my people . 
Then I saw the whole world at war , and many flags of white men were in this land of ours . 
It was a terrible war , and the fighting and the blood made me sick in my dream . 
Then , last of all , I saw a 'person' coming coming across what seemed the plains . 
There were deep shadows all about him as he approached . 
This 'person' kept beckoning me to come to him , and at last I did go to him . 
'Do you know who I am , he asked me . 
'No , person , I do not know you . 
Who are you , and where is your country ? 'If you will listen to me , boy , you shall be a great chief and your people shall love you . 
If you do not listen , then I shall turn against you . 
As the 'person' spoke this last , he struck the ground with a stick he carried , and the blow set the grass afire . 
I have always tried to know that 'person . 
I think I know him wherever he may be , and in any camp . 
He has helped me all my life , and I shall never turn against him never . 
That was the old chief's dream and now a word about the sweat bath . 
A small lodge is made of willows , by bending them and sticking the ends in the ground . 
A completed sweat lodge is shaped like an inverted bowl , and in the centre is a small hole in the ground . 
The lodge is covered with robes , bark , and dirt , or anything that will make it reasonably tight . 
Then a fire is built outside and near the sweat lodge in which stones are heated . 
When the stones are ready , the bather crawls inside the sweat lodge , and an assistant rolls the hot stones from the fire , and into the lodge . 
They are then rolled into the hole in the lodge and sprinkled with water . 
This treatment killed thou sands of Indians when the smallpox was brought to them from Saint Louis , in the early days . 
That night in the lodge War Eagle told a queer yarn . 
I shall modify it somewhat , but in our own sacred history there is a similar tale , well known to all . 
He said Once , a long time ago , two 'thunders' were travelling in the air . 
They came over a vil lage of our people , and there stopped to look about . 
In this village there was one fine , painted lodge , and in it there was an old man , an aged woman , and a beautiful young woman with wonderful hair . 
Of course the 'thunders' could look through the lodge skin and see all that was inside . 
One of them said to the other 'Let us marry that young woman , and never tell her about it . 
'All right , replied the other 'thunder . 
'I am willing , for she is the finest young woman in all the village . 
She is good in her heart , and she is honest . 
So they married her , without telling her about it , and she became the mother of twin boys . 
It all came to pass , just as they said it would . 
When they had married good women and each had four sons , they told the people one day that it was time for them to go away for ever . 
While they lived with us , these twins could heal the sick and tell just what was going to happen on earth . 
One day at noon the twins dressed them selves in their finest clothes and went out to a park in the forest . 
All the people followed them and saw them lie down on the ground in the park . 
The people stayed in the timber that grew about the edge of the park , and watched them until clouds and mists gathered about and hid them from view . 
It thundered loudly and the winds blew trees fell down and when the mists and clouds cleared away , they were gone gone forever . 
But the people have never forgotten them , and my grandfather , who is in the ground near Rocker , was a descendant from one of the sons of the 'thunders . 
Ho ! RETROSPECTION It was evening in the bad lands , and the red sun had slipped behind the far off hills . 
The sundown breeze bent the grasses in the coulees and curled tiny dust clouds on the barren knolls . 
Down in a gulch a clear , cool creek dallied its way toward the Missouri , where its water , bitter as gall , would be lost in the great stream . 
My father and his father knew your people , and when one night you went away , we thought you did but hide and would soon come back . 
The snows have come and gone many times since then , and still your people stay away . 
The young men say that the great herds have gone to the Sand Hills , and that my father still has meat . 
They have told me that the white man , in his greed , has killed and not for meat all the Buffalo that our people knew . 
They have said that the great herds that made the ground tremble as they ran were slain in a few short years by those who needed not . 
Tell me , do your people hide . 
The young men tell the truth and all my tribe have gone to feed among the shadow hills , and your father still has meat . 
Meat ? No , he took no meat , but from our quivering flesh he tore away the robes that Napa gave to make us warm , and left us for the Wolves . 
That night they came , and quar relling , fighting , snapping 'mong themselves , left but our bones to greet the morning sun . 
These bones the Coyotes and the weaker ones did drag and scrape , and scrape again , until the last of flesh or muscle disappeared . 
Then the winds came and sang and all was done . 
