The air is thick , clammy with the breath of crowded human beings . 
I can detect the scent through all the foul smells ranging loose in the air . 
The idiosyncrasy of this town is smoke . 
It rolls sullenly in slow folds from the great chimneys of the iron foundries , and settles down in black , slimy pools on the muddy streets . 
The long train of mules , dragging masses of pig iron through the narrow street , have a foul vapor hanging to their reeking sides . 
Here , inside , is a little broken figure of an angel pointing upward from the mantel shelf but even its wings are covered with smoke , clotted and black . 
Smoke everywhere ! A dirty canary chirps desolately in a cage beside me . 
Its dream of green fields and sunshine is a very old dream , almost worn out , I think . 
From the back window I can see a narrow brick yard sloping down to the river side , strewed with rain butts and tubs . 
drags itself sluggishly along , tired of the heavy weight of boats and coal barges . 
My fancy about the river was an idle one it is no type of such a life . 
The future of the Welsh puddler passing just now is not so pleasant . 
You may think it a tiresome story enough , as foggy as the day , sharpened by no sudden flashes of pain or pleasure . 
Lost ? There is a curious point for you to settle , my friend , who study psychology in a lazy , dilettante way . 
I am going to be honest . 
This is what I want you to do . 
I want you to hear this story . 
There is a secret down here , in this nightmare fog , that has lain dumb for centuries I want to make it a real thing to you . 
I dare not put this secret into words . 
I told you it was dumb . 
These men , going by with drunken faces and brains full of unawakened power , do not ask it of Society or of God . 
Their lives ask it their deaths ask it . 
I will tell you plainly that I have a great hope and I bring it to you to be tested . 
I dare make my meaning no clearer , but will only tell my story . 
My story is very simple , Only what I remember of the life of one of these men , a furnace tender in one of Kirby John's rolling mills , Hugh Wolfe . 
You know the mills ? They took the great order for the lower Virginia railroads there last winter run usually with about a thousand men . 
I cannot tell why I choose the half forgotten story of this Wolfe more than that of myriads of these furnace hands . 
The house was rented then to half a dozen families . 
The Wolfes had two of the cellar rooms . 
The old man , like many of the puddlers and feeders of the mills , was Welsh , had spent half of his life in the Cornish tin mines . 
You may pick the Welsh emigrants , Cornish miners , out of the throng passing the windows , any day . 
They are a trifle more filthy their muscles are not so brawny they stoop more . 
When they are drunk , they neither yell , nor shout , nor stagger , but skulk along like beaten hounds . 
A pure , unmixed blood , I fancy shows itself in the slight angular bodies and sharply cut facial lines . 
It is nearly thirty years since the Wolfes lived here . 
One rainy night , about eleven o'clock , a crowd of half clothed women stopped outside of the cellar door . 
They were going home from the cotton mill . 
Good night , Deb , said one , a mulatto , steadying herself against the gas post . 
She needed the post to steady her . 
So did more than one of them . 
Dah's a ball to Miss Potts' to night . 
Inteet , Deb , if hur'll come , hur'll hef fun , said a shrill Welsh voice in the crowd . 
Two or three dirty hands were thrust out to catch the gown of the woman , who was groping for the latch of the door . 
No. No ? Where's Kit Small , then ? Begorra ! on the spools . 
Alleys behint , though we helped her , we dud . 
An wid ye ! Let Deb alone ! It's ondacent frettin' a quite body . 
Deborah groped her way into the cellar , and , after considerable stumbling , kindled a match , and lighted a tallow dip , that sent a yellow glimmer over the room . 
It was low , damp , the earthen floor covered with a green , slimy moss , a fetid air smothering the breath . 
Old Wolfe lay asleep on a heap of straw , wrapped in a torn horse blanket . 
He was a pale , meek little man , with a white face and red rabbit eyes . 
The woman Deborah was like him only her face was even more ghastly , her lips bluer , her eyes more watery . 
She wore a faded cotton gown and a slouching bonnet . 
When she walked , one could see that she was deformed , almost a hunchback . 
She trod softly , so as not to waken him , and went through into the room beyond . 
There she found by the half extinguished fire an iron saucepan filled with cold boiled potatoes , which she put upon a broken chair with a pint cup of ale . 
Placing the old candlestick beside this dainty repast , she untied her bonnet , which hung limp and wet over her face , and prepared to eat her supper . 
It was the first food that had touched her lips since morning . 
There was enough of it , however there is not always . 
She was hungry , one could see that easily enough , and not drunk , as most of her companions would have been found at this hour . 
She did not drink , this woman , her face told that , too , nothing stronger than ale . 
Perhaps the weak , flaccid wretch had some stimulant in her pale life to keep her up , some love or hope , it might be , or urgent need . 
When that stimulant was gone , she would take to whiskey . 
Man cannot live by work alone . 
While she was skinning the potatoes , and munching them , a noise behind her made her stop . 
Janey ! she called , lifting the candle and peering into the darkness . 
Janey , are you there ? A heap of ragged coats was heaved up , and the face of a young , girl emerged , staring sleepily at the woman . 
Deborah , she said , at last , I'm here the night . 
Hur's welcome , she said , quietly eating on . 
I was alone , she said , timidly . 
Where's the father ? asked Deborah , holding out a potato , which the girl greedily seized . 
He's beyant , wid Haley , in the stone house . 
Hugh told me never to stay me lone . 
A vexed frown crossed her face . 
The girl saw it , and added quickly , I have not seen Hugh the day , Deb . 
The old man says his watch lasts till the mornin' . 
The woman sprang up , and hastily began to arrange some bread and flitch in a tin pail , and to pour her own measure of ale into a bottle . 
Tying on her bonnet , she blew out the candle . 
Lay ye down , Janey dear , she said , gently , covering her with the old rags . 
Hur can eat the potatoes , if hur's hungry . 
Where are ye goin' , Deb ? The rain's sharp . 
To the mill , with Hugh's supper . 
Let him bide till th' morn . 
No , no , sharply pushing her off . 
She hurried from the cellar , while the child wearily coiled herself up for sleep . 
Not many even of the inhabitants of a manufacturing town know the vast machinery of system by which the bodies of workmen are governed , that goes on unceasingly from year to year . 
The hands of each mill are divided into watches that relieve each other as regularly as the sentinels of an army . 
By night and day the work goes on , the unsleeping engines groan and shriek , the fiery pools of metal boil and surge . 
As Deborah hurried down through the heavy rain , the noise of these thousand engines sounded through the sleep and shadow of the city like far off thunder . 
The mill to which she was going lay on the river , a mile below the city limits . 
It was far , and she was weak , aching from standing twelve hours at the spools . 
The mills for rolling iron are simply immense tent like roofs , covering acres of ground , open on every side . 
Beneath these roofs Deborah looked in on a city of fires , that burned hot and fiercely in the night . 
It was like a street in Hell . 
Even Deborah muttered , as she crept through , looks like t' Devil's place ! It did , in more ways than one . 
She found the man she was looking for , at last , heaping coal on a furnace . 
He had not time to eat his supper so she went behind the furnace , and waited . 
Only a few men were with him , and they noticed her only by a Hyur comes t'hunchback , Wolfe . 
Deborah was stupid with sleep her back pained her sharply and her teeth chattered with cold , with the rain that soaked her clothes and dripped from her at every step . 
She stood , however , patiently holding the pail , and waiting . 
Hout , woman ! ye look like a drowned cat . 
Come near to the fire , said one of the men , approaching to scrape away the ashes . 
He turned , hearing the man , and came closer . 
I did no' think gi' me my supper , woman . 
She watched him eat with a painful eagerness . 
With a woman's quick instinct , she saw that he was not hungry , was eating to please her . 
Her pale , watery eyes began to gather a strange light . 
Is't good , Hugh ? T' ale was a bit sour , I feared . 
Ye're tired , poor lass ! Bide here till I go . 
Lay down there on that heap of ash , and go to sleep . 
He threw her an old coat for a pillow , and turned to his work . 
The heap was the refuse of the burnt iron , and was not a hard bed the half smothered warmth , too , penetrated her limbs , dulling their pain and cold shiver . 
Yet he was kind to her it was his nature to be kind , even to the very rats that swarmed in the cellar kind to her in just the same way . 
And it might be that very knowledge had given to her face its apathy and vacancy more than her low , torpid life . 
There was no warmth , no brilliancy , no summer for this woman so the stupor and vacancy had time to gnaw into her face perpetually . 
She was young , too , though no one guessed it so the gnawing was the fiercer . 
She knew , in spite of all his kindness , that there was that in her face and form which made him loathe the sight of her . 
She felt by instinct , although she could not comprehend it , the finer nature of the man , which made him among his fellow workmen something unique , set apart . 
The recollection struck through even her stupid intellect with a vivid glow of beauty and of grace . 
Wolfe , while Deborah watched him as a spaniel its master , bent over the furnace with his iron pole , unconscious of her scrutiny , only stopping to receive orders . 
Physically , Nature had promised the man but little . 
haggard , yellow with consumption . 
In the mill he was known as one of the girl men Molly Wolfe was his sobriquet . 
He was never seen in the cockpit , did not own a terrier , drank but seldom when he did , desperately . 
He fought sometimes , but was always thrashed , pommelled to a jelly . 
For other reasons , too , he was not popular . 
In the neighboring furnace buildings lay great heaps of the refuse from the ore after the pig metal is run . 
Korl we call it here a light , porous substance , of a delicate , waxen , flesh colored tinge . 
It was a curious fancy in the man , almost a passion . 
A morbid , gloomy man , untaught , unled , left to feed his soul in grossness and crime , and hard , grinding labor . 
So long ago he began , that he thinks sometimes he has worked there for ages . 
There is no hope that it will ever end . 
Be just when I tell you about this night , see him as he is . 
I called this night the crisis of his life . 
If it was , it stole on him unawares . 
These great turning days of life cast no shadow before , slip by unconsciously . 
Only a trifle , a little turn of the rudder , and the ship goes to heaven or hell . 
Wolfe , while Deborah watched him , dug into the furnace of melting iron with his pole , dully thinking only how many rails the lump would yield . 
It was late , nearly Sunday morning another hour , and the heavy work would be done , only the furnaces to replenish and cover for the next day . 
The workmen were growing more noisy , shouting , as they had to do , to be heard over the deep clamor of the mills . 
Suddenly they grew less boisterous , at the far end , entirely silent . 
After a moment , the silence came nearer the men stopped their jeers and drunken choruses . 
Deborah , stupidly lifting up her head , saw the cause of the quiet . 
A group of five or six men were slowly approaching , stopping to examine each furnace as they came . 
Visitors often came to see the mills after night except by growing less noisy , the men took no notice of them . 
The furnace where Wolfe worked was near the bounds of the works they halted there hot and tired a walk over one of these great foundries is no trifling task . 
The woman , drawing out of sight , turned over to sleep . 
Wolfe , seeing them stop , suddenly roused from his indifferent stupor , and watched them keenly . 
He knew some of them the overseer , Clarke , a son of Kirby , one of the mill owners , and a Doctor May , one of the town physicians . 
The other two were strangers . 
He seized eagerly every chance that brought him into contact with this mysterious class that shone down on him perpetually with the glamour of another order of being . 
What made the difference between them ? That was the mystery of his life . 
He had a vague notion that perhaps to night he could find it out . 
One of the strangers sat down on a pile of bricks , and beckoned young Kirby to his side . 
This is hot , with a vengeance . 
A match , please ? lighting his cigar . 
But the walk is worth the trouble . 
If it were not that you must have heard it so often , Kirby , I would tell you that your works look like Dante's Inferno . 
Yonder is Farinata himself in the burning tomb , pointing to some figure in the shimmering shadows . 
Judging from some of the faces of your men , said the other , they bid fair to try the reality of Dante's vision , some day . 
Young Kirby looked curiously around , as if seeing the faces of his hands for the first time . 
They're bad enough , that's true . 
A desperate set , I fancy . 
Eh , Clarke ? The overseer did not hear him . 
The other gentlemen had accompanied them merely for amusement . 
They were silent until the notes were finished , drying their feet at the furnaces , and sheltering their faces from the intolerable heat . 
At last the overseer concluded with I believe that is a pretty fair estimate , Captain . 
Here , some of you men ! said Kirby , bring up those boards . 
We may as well sit down , gentlemen , until the rain is over . 
It cannot last much longer at this rate . 
Do you control their votes , Kirby ? Control ? No. The young man smiled complacently . 
But my father brought seven hundred votes to the polls for his candidate last November . 
The Invincible Roughs , I believe that is their name . 
I forget the motto 'Our country's hope , I think . 
Such men are not rare in the States . 
As he knocked the ashes from his cigar , Wolfe caught with a quick pleasure the contour of the white hand , the blood glow of a red ring he wore . 
His voice , too , and that of Kirby's , touched him like music , low , even , with chording cadences . 
The rain did not cease . 
Clarke and the reporter left the mills the others , comfortably seated near the furnace , lingered , smoking and talking in a desultory way . 
Greek would not have been more unintelligible to the furnace tenders , whose presence they soon forgot entirely . 
Kirby drew out a newspaper from his pocket and read aloud some article , which they discussed eagerly . 
Never ! The bell of the mills rang for midnight . 
Whatever hidden message lay in the tolling bells floated past these men unknown . 
The men began to withdraw the metal from the caldrons . 
The mills were deserted on Sundays , except by the hands who fed the fires , and those who had no lodgings and slept usually on the ash heaps . 
The three strangers sat still during the next hour , watching the men cover the furnaces , laughing now and then at some jest of Kirby's . 
One could fancy these red smouldering lights to be the half shut eyes of wild beasts , and the spectral figures their victims in the den . 
Come , let us get out of the den . 
The spectral figures , as you call them , are a little too real for me to fancy a close proximity in the darkness , unarmed , too . 
The others rose , buttoning their overcoats , and lighting cigars . 
Raining , still , said Doctor May , and hard . 
Where did we leave the coach , Mitchell ? At the other side of the works . 
Stop ! Make that fire burn there ! cried Kirby , stopping short . 
The flame burst out , flashing the gaunt figure into bold relief . 
Mitchell drew a long breath . 
I thought it was alive , he said , going up curiously . 
Not marble , eh ? asked Kirby , touching it . 
One of the lower overseers stopped . 
Who did it ? Can't say . 
Some of the hands chipped it out in off hours . 
Chipped to some purpose , I should say . 
What a flesh tint the stuff has ! Do you see , Mitchell ? I see . 
He had stepped aside where the light fell boldest on the figure , looking at it in silence . 
There was not one line of beauty or grace in it a nude woman's form , muscular , grown coarse with labor , the powerful limbs instinct with some one poignant longing . 
One idea there it was in the tense , rigid muscles , the clutching hands , the wild , eager face , like that of a starving wolf's . 
Kirby and Doctor May walked around it , critical , curious . 
Mitchell stood aloof , silent . 
The figure touched him strangely . 
They have ample facilities for studying anatomy , sneered Kirby , glancing at the half naked figures . 
Look , continued the Doctor , at this bony wrist , and the strained sinews of the instep ! A working woman , the very type of her class . 
God forbid ! muttered Mitchell . 
Why ? demanded May , What does the fellow intend by the figure ? I cannot catch the meaning . 
Ask him , said the other , dryly , There he stands , pointing to Wolfe , who stood with a group of men , leaning on his ash rake . 
The Doctor beckoned him with the affable smile which kind hearted men put on , when talking to these people . 
Mr. Mitchell has picked you out as the man who did this , I'm sure I don't know why . 
But what did you mean by it ? She be hungry . 
Wolfe's eyes answered Mitchell , not the Doctor . 
Oh h ! But what a mistake you have made , my fine fellow ! You have given no sign of starvation to the body . 
It is strong , terribly strong . 
It has the mad , half despairing gesture of drowning . 
Wolfe stammered , glanced appealingly at Mitchell , who saw the soul of the thing , he knew . 
But the cool , probing eyes were turned on himself now , mocking , cruel , relentless . 
Not hungry for meat , the furnace tender said at last . 
What then ? Whiskey ? jeered Kirby , with a coarse laugh . 
Wolfe was silent a moment , thinking . 
I dunno , he said , with a bewildered look . 
Summat to make her live , I think , like you . 
Whiskey ull do it , in a way . 
The young man laughed again . 
Mitchell flashed a look of disgust somewhere , not at Wolfe . 
Mitchell's look had irritated him . 
Ce n'est pas mon affaire . 
I have no fancy for nursing infant geniuses . 
I suppose there are some stray gleams of mind and soul among these wretches . 
The Lord will take care of his own or else they can work out their own salvation . 
I have heard you call our American system a ladder which any man can scale . 
Some terrible problem lay hid in this woman's face , and troubled these men . 
Kirby waited for an answer , and , receiving none , went on , warming with his subject . 
I tell you , there's something wrong that no talk of 'Liberte' or 'Egalite' will do away . 
If I had the making of men , these men who do the lowest part of the world's work should be machines , nothing more , hands . 
God help them ! What are taste , reason , to creatures who must live such lives as that ? He pointed to Deborah , sleeping on the ash heap . 
So many nerves to sting them to pain . 
I do not think at all . 
Drift with the stream , because you cannot dive deep enough to find bottom , eh ? Exactly , rejoined Kirby . 
I wash my hands of all social problems , slavery , caste , white or black . 
My duty to my operatives has a narrow limit , the pay hour on Saturday night . 
The Doctor sighed , a good honest sigh , from the depths of his stomach . 
God help us ! Who is responsible ? Not I , I tell you , said Kirby , testily . 
Mitchell laughed , a cool , musical laugh . 
Money has spoken ! he said , seating himself lightly on a stone with the air of an amused spectator at a play . 
Are you answered ? turning to Wolfe his clear , magnetic face . 
Bright and deep and cold as Arctic air , the soul of the man lay tranquil beneath . 
He looked at the furnace tender as he had looked at a rare mosaic in the morning only the man was the more amusing study of the two . 
Are you answered ? Why , May , look at him ! 'De profundis clamavi . 
Or , to quote in English , 'Hungry and thirsty , his soul faints in him . 
See ye to it ! Kirby flushed angrily . 
Deist ? Bless you , man , I was raised on the milk of the Word . 
Go on , May ! I think a mocking devil possesses you to night , rejoined the Doctor , seriously . 
He went to Wolfe and put his hand kindly on his arm . 
Here it was he had brought it . 
to live a better , stronger life than I , or Mr. Kirby here ? A man may make himself anything he chooses . 
God has given you stronger powers than many men , me , for instance . 
May stopped , heated , glowing with his own magnanimity . 
Make yourself what you will . 
Will you help me ? Mitchell laughed again . 
The Doctor turned now , in a passion , You know , Mitchell , I have not the means . 
You know , if I had , it is in my heart to take this boy and educate him for The glory of God , and the glory of John May . 
Money ? He said it over slowly , as one repeats the guessed answer to a riddle , doubtfully . 
That is it ? Money ? Yes , money , that is it , said Mitchell , rising , and drawing his furred coat about him . 
You've found the cure for all the world's diseases . 
Come , May , find your good humor , and come home . 
This damp wind chills my very bones . 
Come and preach your Saint Simonian doctrines' to morrow to Kirby's hands . 
Let them have a clear idea of the rights of the soul , and I'll venture next week they'll strike for higher wages . 
That will be the end of it . 
Will you send the coach driver to this side of the mills ? asked Kirby , turning to Wolfe . 
He spoke kindly it was his habit to do so . 
Deborah , seeing the puddler go , crept after him . 
The three men waited outside . 
Doctor May walked up and down , chafed . 
Go back , Mitchell ! You say the pocket and the heart of the world speak without meaning to these people . 
What has its head to say ? Taste , culture , refinement ? Go ! Mitchell was leaning against a brick wall . 
He turned his head indolently , and looked into the mills . 
There hung about the place a thick , unclean odor . 
The slightest motion of his hand marked that he perceived it , and his insufferable disgust . 
May said nothing , only quickened his angry tramp . 
Besides , added Mitchell , giving a corollary to his answer , it would be of no use . 
I am not one of them . 
You do not mean said May , facing him . 
Yes , I mean just that . 
Reform is born of need , not pity . 
No vital movement of the people's has worked down , for good or evil fermented , instead , carried up the heaving , cloggy mass . 
Think back through history , and you will know it . 
Bah ! was the Doctor's inward criticism . 
Wolfe and the woman had stood in the shadow of the works as the coach drove off . 
The Doctor had held out his hand in a frank , generous way , telling him to take care of himself , and to remember it was his right to rise . 
Mitchell had simply touched his hat , as to an equal , with a quiet look of thorough recognition . 
Kirby had thrown Deborah some money , which she found , and clutched eagerly enough . 
They were gone now , all of them . 
The man sat down on the cinder road , looking up into the murky sky . 
'T be late , Hugh . 
Wunnot hur come ? He shook his head doggedly , and the woman crouched out of his sight against the wall . 
The slow tides of pain he had borne gathered themselves up and surged against his soul . 
He griped the filthy red shirt that clung , stiff with soot , about him , and tore it savagely from his arm . 
The flesh beneath was muddy with grease and ashes , and the heart beneath that ! And the soul ? God knows . 
In his cloudy fancy he had pictured a Something like this . 
And yet his instinct taught him that he too He ! He looked at himself with sudden loathing , sick , wrung his hands With a cry , and then was silent . 
With all the phantoms of his heated , ignorant fancy , Wolfe had not been vague in his ambitions . 
They were practical , slowly built up before him out of his knowledge of what he could do . 
Through years he had day by day made this hope a real thing to himself , a clear , projected figure of himself , as he might become . 
But to night he panted for life . 
The savage strength of his nature was roused his cry was fierce to God for justice . 
Look at me ! he said to Deborah , with a low , bitter laugh , striking his puny chest savagely . 
For Deborah was crying thankless tears , according to the fashion of women . 
God forgi' me , woman ! Things go harder Wi' you nor me . 
He got up and helped her to rise and they went doggedly down the muddy street , side by side . 
It's all wrong , he muttered , slowly , all wrong ! I dunnot understan' . 
But it'll end some day . 
Come home , Hugh ! she said , coaxingly for he had stopped , looking around bewildered . 
Home , and back to the mill ! He went on saying this over to himself , as if he would mutter down every pain in this dull despair . 
She followed him through the fog , her blue lips chattering with cold . 
They reached the cellar at last . 
Old Wolfe had been drinking since she went out , and had crept nearer the door . 
The girl Janey slept heavily in the corner . 
He went up to her , touching softly the worn white arm with his fingers . 
Some bitterer thought stung him , as he stood there . 
He wiped the drops from his forehead , and went into the room beyond , livid , trembling . 
He gave it up that moment , then and forever . 
Only a trifle , perhaps , to us his face grew a shade paler , that was all . 
But , somehow , the man's soul , as God and the angels looked down on it , never was the same afterwards . 
Deborah followed him into the inner room . 
She carried a candle , which she placed on the floor , closing the door after her . 
She had seen the look on his face , as he turned away her own grew deadly . 
Yet , as she came up to him , her eyes glowed . 
He was seated on an old chest , quiet , holding his face in his hands . 
Hugh ! she said , softly . 
Hugh ! The candle flared a pale yellow light over the cobwebbed brick walls , and the woman standing there . 
She was young , in deadly earnest her faded eyes , and wet , ragged figure caught from their frantic eagerness a power akin to beauty . 
Hugh , it is true ! Money ull do it ! Oh , Hugh , boy , listen till me ! He said it true ! It is money ! I know . 
Go back ! I do not want you here . 
Hugh , it is t' last time . 
I'll never worrit hur again . 
Her whisper shrilled through his brain . 
Mad ? Yes ! Are many of us mad in this way ? Poor Deb ! poor Deb ! he said , soothingly . 
It is here , she said , suddenly , jerking into his hand a small roll . 
Hur knows ? She thrust it into his hand , and then , her errand done , began to gather chips together to make a fire , choking down hysteric sobs . 
Has it come to this ? That was all he said . 
The Welsh Wolfe blood was honest . 
The roll was a small green pocket book containing one or two gold pieces , and a check for an incredible amount , as it seemed to the poor puddler . 
He laid it down , hiding his face again in his hands . 
Hugh , don't be angry wud me ! It's only poor Deb , hur knows ? He took the long skinny fingers kindly in his . 
Angry ? God help me , no ! Let me sleep . 
He threw himself heavily down on the wooden bench , stunned with pain and weariness . 
She brought some old rags to cover him . 
It was late on Sunday evening before he awoke . 
I tell God's truth , when I say he had then no thought of keeping this money . 
Deborah had hid it in his pocket . 
She watched him eagerly , as he took it out . 
I must gif it to him , he said , reading her face . 
Hur knows , she said with a bitter sigh of disappointment . 
But it is hur right to keep it . 
His right ! The word struck him . 
Doctor May had used the same . 
He washed himself , and went out to find this man Mitchell . 
He seated himself at the end of an alley leading into one of the larger streets . 
His brain was clear to night , keen , intent , mastering . 
It would not start back , cowardly , from any hellish temptation , but meet it face to face . 
Therefore the great temptation of his life came to him veiled by no sophistry , but bold , defiant , owning its own vile name , trusting to one bold blow for victory . 
He did not deceive himself . 
Theft ! That was it . 
At first the word sickened him then he grappled with it . 
This money ! He took it out , and looked at it . 
If he gave it back , what then ? He was going to be cool about it . 
People going by to church saw only a sickly mill boy watching them quietly at the alley's mouth . 
His soul within him was smothering to death he wanted so much , thought so much , and knew nothing . 
There was nothing of which he was certain , except the mill and things there . 
Of God and heaven he had heard so little , that they were to him what fairy land is to a child something real , but not here very far off . 
His brain , greedy , dwarfed , full of thwarted energy and unused powers , questioned these men and women going by , coldly , bitterly , that night . 
His heart warmed , as he thought of it . 
He suffered himself to think of it longer . 
If he took the money ? Then he saw himself as he might be , strong , helpful , kindly . 
The night crept on , as this one image slowly evolved itself from the crowd of other thoughts and stood triumphant . 
I only want to show you the mote in my brother's eye then you can see clearly to take it out . 
A thief ! Well , what was it to be a thief ? He met the question at last , face to face , wiping the clammy drops of sweat from his forehead . 
God made this money the fresh air , too for his children's use . 
He never made the difference between poor and rich . 
The Something who looked down on him that moment through the cool gray sky had a kindly face , he knew , loved his children alike . 
Looking up now , it became strangely real . 
The sun had sunk quite below the hills , but his last rays struck upward , touching the zenith . 
Wolfe's artist eye grew drunk with color . 
Clutching it , as if the tightness of his hold would strengthen his sense of possession , he went aimlessly down the street . 
It was his watch at the mill . 
He need not go , need never go again , thank God ! shaking off the thought with unspeakable loathing . 
It was a sombre Gothic pile , where the stained light lost itself in far retreating arches built to meet the requirements and sympathies of a far other class than Wolfe's . 
Yet it touched , moved him uncontrollably . 
The distances , the shadows , the still , marble figures , the mass of silent kneeling worshippers , the mysterious music , thrilled , lifted his soul with a wonderful pain . 
Wolfe forgot himself , forgot the new life he was going to live , the mean terror gnawing underneath . 
The voice of the speaker strengthened the charm it was clear , feeling , full , strong . 
An old man , who had lived much , suffered much whose brain was keenly alive , dominant whose heart was summer warm with charity . 
He taught it to night . 
He held up Humanity in its grand total showed the great world cancer to his people . 
Who could show it better ? He was a Christian reformer he had studied the age thoroughly his outlook at man had been free , world wide , over all time . 
His faith stood sublime upon the Rock of Ages his fiery zeal guided vast schemes by which the Gospel was to be preached to all nations . 
Sin , as he defined it , was a real foe to them their trials , temptations , were his . 
His words passed far over the furnace tender's grasp , toned to suit another class of culture they sounded in his ears a very pleasant song in an unknown tongue . 
He meant to cure this world cancer with a steady eye that had never glared with hunger , and a hand that neither poverty nor strychnine whiskey had taught to shake . 
In this morbid , distorted heart of the Welsh puddler he had failed . 
Eighteen centuries ago , the Master of this man tried reform in the streets of a city as crowded and vile as this , and did not fail . 
Wolfe rose at last , and turned from the church down the street . 
He looked up the night had come on foggy , damp the golden mists had vanished , and the sky lay dull and ash colored . 
He wandered again aimlessly down the street , idly wondering what had become of the cloud sea of crimson and scarlet . 
The trial day of this man's life was over , and he had lost the victory . 
What followed was mere drifting circumstance , a quicker walking over the path , that was all . 
Commonplace enough the hints are , jocose sometimes , done up in rhyme . 
Hugh Wolfe , operative in Kirby John's Loudon Mills . 
Sentence , nineteen years hard labor in penitentiary . 
Not usual in such cases but he had made two desperate efforts to escape . 
Well , as Haley , the jailer , said , small blame to him ! Nineteen years' inprisonment was not a pleasant thing to look forward to . 
Haley was very good natured about it , though Wolfe had fought him savagely . 
Never saw a man so cut down in my life . 
Time of the trial , too , came the queerest dodge of any customer I ever had . 
Judge gave him one , of course . 
He tried to prove the fellow crazy but it wouldn't go . 
Thing was plain as daylight money found on him . 
'T was a hard sentence , all the law allows but it was for 'xample's sake . 
These mill hands are gettin' onbearable . 
When the sentence was read , he just looked up , and said the money was his by rights , and that all the world had gone wrong . 
That night , after the trial , a gentleman came to see him here , name of Mitchell , him as he stole from . 
Talked to him for an hour . 
Thought he came for curiosity , like . 
After he was gone , thought Wolfe was remarkable quiet , and went into his cell . 
Found him very low bed all bloody . 
Doctor said he had been bleeding at the lungs . 
He was as weak as a cat yet if ye'll b'lieve me , he tried to get a past me and get out . 
I just carried him like a baby , and threw him on the pallet . 
Three days after , he tried it again that time reached the wall . 
Lord help you ! he fought like a tiger , giv' some terrible blows . 
Fightin' for life , you see for he can't live long , shut up in the stone crib down yonder . 
Got a death cough now . 
'T took two of us to bring him down that day so I just put the irons on his feet . 
There he sits , in there . 
Goin' to morrow , with a batch more of 'em . 
That woman , hunchback , tried with him , you remember ? she's only got three years . 
But she's a woman , you know . 
He's been quiet ever since I put on irons giv' up , I suppose . 
Looks white , sick lookin' . 
It acts different on 'em , bein' sentenced . 
Most of 'em gets reckless , devilish like . 
Some prays awful , and sings them vile songs of the mills , all in a breath . 
That woman , now , she's desper't' . 
Been beggin' to see Hugh , as she calls him , for three days . 
I'm a goin' to let her in . 
She don't go with him . 
Here she is in this next cell . 
I'm a goin' now to let her in . 
Wolfe did not see her . 
She crept into a corner of the cell , and stood watching him . 
Tryin' to get out , old boy ? laughed Haley . 
Them irons will need a crow bar beside your tin , before you can open 'em . 
Wolfe laughed , too , in a senseless way . 
I think I'll get out , he said . 
I believe his brain's touched , said Haley , when he came out . 
The puddler scraped away with the tin for half an hour . 
Still Deborah did not speak . 
At last she ventured nearer , and touched his arm . 
Blood ? she said , looking at some spots on his coat with a shudder . 
He did not seem to hear her , scraping away diligently at the bars with the bit of tin . 
Was he going mad ? She peered closely into his face . 
That gray shadow , yes , she knew what that meant . 
She had often seen it creeping over women's faces for months , who died at last of slow hunger or consumption . 
Forgetting her fear of him , she caught his shoulders , and looked keenly , steadily , into his eyes . 
Yet the words were kindly enough . 
Sitting there on his pallet , she cried silently a hopeless sort of tears , but did not speak again . 
The man looked up furtively at her now and then . 
Whatever his own trouble was , her distress vexed him with a momentary sting . 
The narrow window of the jail looked down directly on the carts and wagons drawn up in a long line , where they had unloaded . 
Somehow , the sound , more than anything else had done , wakened him up , made the whole real to him . 
He was done with the world and the business of it . 
He let the tin fall , and looked out , pressing his face close to the rusty bars . 
Sure enough , Nyeff was married the other week . 
He whistled , hoping he would look up but he did not . 
Never again ! He had not quite understood it before but now he did . 
Not for days or years , but never ! that was it . 
In one minute he could be down there . 
It was just a step . 
He , what had he done to bear this ? Then came the sudden picture of what might have been , and now . 
He knew what it was to be in the penitentiary , how it went with men there . 
He believed he was almost that now . 
He put his hand to his head , with a puzzled , weary look . 
It ached , his head , with thinking . 
He tried to quiet himself . 
It was only right , perhaps he had done wrong . 
But was there right or wrong for such as he ? What was right ? And who had ever taught him ? He thrust the whole matter away . 
A dark , cold quiet crept through his brain . 
It was all wrong but let it be ! It was nothing to him more than the others . 
Let it be ! The door grated , as Haley opened it . 
Come , my woman ! Must lock up for t' night . 
Come , stir yerself ! She went up and took Hugh's hand . 
Good night , Deb , he said , carelessly . 
She had not hoped he would say more but the tired pain on her mouth just then was bitterer than death . 
She took his passive hand and kissed it . 
Hur'll never see Deb again ! she ventured , her lips growing colder and more bloodless . 
What did she say that for ? Did he not know it ? Yet he would not be impatient with poor old Deb . 
She had trouble of her own , as well as he . 
No , never again , he said , trying to be cheerful . 
She stood just a moment , looking at him . 
It was to be her last word . 
What was it ? Hugh , boy , not THAT ! He did not answer . 
She wrung her hands , trying to be silent , looking in his face in an agony of entreaty . 
He smiled again , kindly . 
It is best , Deb . 
I cannot bear to be hurted any more . 
Hur knows , she said , humbly . 
Tell my father good bye and and kiss little Janey . 
She nodded , saying nothing , looked in his face again , and went out of the door . 
As she went , she staggered . 
Drinkin' to day ? broke out Haley , pushing her before him . 
Where the Devil did you get it ? Here , in with ye ! and he shoved her into her cell , next to Wolfe's , and shut the door . 
Along the wall of her cell there was a crack low down by the floor , through which she could see the light from Wolfe's . 
She had discovered it days before . 
She hurried in now , and , kneeling down by it , listened , hoping to hear some sound . 
Nothing but the rasping of the tin on the bars . 
He was at his old amusement again . 
Something in the noise jarred on her ear , for she shivered as she heard it . 
Hugh rasped away at the bars . 
A dull old bit of tin , not fit to cut korl with . 
He looked out of the window again . 
People were leaving the market now . 
A tall mulatto girl , following her mistress , her basket on her head , crossed the street just below , and looked up . 
She was laughing but , when she caught sight of the haggard face peering out through the bars , suddenly grew grave , and hurried by . 
The picture caught his eye . 
It was good to see a face like that . 
He would try to morrow , and cut one like it . 
To morrow ! He threw down the tin , trembling , and covered his face with his hands . 
When he looked up again , the daylight was gone . 
Deborah , crouching near by on the other side of the wall , heard no noise . 
He sat on the side of the low pallet , thinking . 
The evening was darkening fast . 
as if he never should hear human voices again . 
It was quite dark at last . 
The street was a lonely one . 
The last passenger , he thought , was gone . 
No , there was a quick step Joe Hill , lighting the lamps . 
Joe was a good old chap never passed a fellow without some joke or other . 
He remembered once seeing the place where he lived with his wife . 
Granny Hill the boys called her . 
The step was far down the street but he could see him place the ladder , run up , and light the gas . 
A longing seized him to be spoken to once more . 
Joe ! he called , out of the grating . 
Good bye , Joe ! The old man stopped a moment , listening uncertainly then hurried on . 
The prisoner thrust his hand out of the window , and called again , louder but Joe was too far down the street . 
It was a little thing but it hurt him , this disappointment . 
Good bye , Joe ! he called , sorrowfully enough . 
Be quiet ! said one of the jailers , passing the door , striking on it with his club . 
He bared his arms , looking intently at their corded veins and sinews . 
Deborah , listening in the next cell , heard a slight clicking sound , often repeated . 
She shut her lips tightly , that she might not scream the cold drops of sweat broke over her , in her dumb agony . 
Hur knows best , she muttered at last , fiercely clutching the boards where she lay . 
If she could have seen Wolfe , there was nothing about him to frighten her . 
He lay quite still , his arms outstretched , looking at the pearly stream of moonlight coming into the window . 
I think in that one hour that came then he lived back over all the years that had gone before . 
The moon , passing over her nightly path , slowly came nearer , and threw the light across his bed on his feet . 
He watched it steadily , as it crept up , inch by inch , slowly . 
It seemed to him to carry with it a great silence . 
He had been so hot and tired there always in the mills ! The years had been so fierce and cruel ! There was coming now quiet and coolness and sleep . 
His tense limbs relaxed , and settled in a calm languor . 
The blood ran fainter and slow from his heart . 
He did not think now with a savage anger of what might be and was not he was conscious only of deep stillness creeping over him . 
The coroner and his jury , the local editors , Kirby himself , and boys with their hands thrust knowingly into their pockets and heads on one side , jammed into the corners . 
Coming and going all day . 
She came late , and outstayed them all . 
A Quaker , or Friend , as they call themselves . 
I think this woman Was known by that name in heaven . 
A homely body , coarsely dressed in gray and white . 
She watched them all sitting on the end of the pallet , holding his head in her arms with the ferocity of a watch dog , if any of them touched the body . 
There was no meekness , no sorrow , in her face the stuff out of which murderers are made , instead . 
All the time Haley and the woman were laying straight the limbs and cleaning the cell , Deborah sat still , keenly watching the Quaker's face . 
Of all the crowd there that day , this woman alone had not spoken to her , only once or twice had put some cordial to her lips . 
The fresh air blew in , and swept the woody fragrance over the dead face , Deborah looked up with a quick wonder . 
Did hur know my boy wud like it ? Did hur know Hugh ? I know Hugh now . 
The white fingers passed in a slow , pitiful way over the dead , worn face . 
There was a heavy shadow in the quiet eyes . 
Did hur know where they'll bury Hugh ? said Deborah in a shrill tone , catching her arm . 
This had been the question hanging on her lips all day . 
In t' town yard ? Under t' mud and ash ? T' lad'll smother , woman ! He wur born in t' lane moor , where t' air is frick and strong . 
Take hur out , for God's sake , take hur out where t' air blows ! The Quaker hesitated , but only for a moment . 
She put her strong arm around Deborah and led her to the window . 
Look at me , She turned Deborah's face to her own , clear and earnest , Thee will believe me ? I will take Hugh and bury him there to morrow . 
Deborah did not doubt her . 
As she looked , a shadow of their solemn repose fell on her face its fierce discontent faded into a pitiful , humble quiet . 
The Quaker watched her keenly . 
She came to her at last , and touched her arm . 
I came too late but not for thee , by God's help , it may be . 
Three years after , the Quaker began her work . 
I end my story here . 
At evening time it was light . 
It is the Friends' meeting house . 
Once a week they sit there , in their grave , earnest way , waiting for the Spirit of Love to speak , opening their simple hearts to receive His words . 
A woman much loved by these silent , resfful people more silent than they , more humble , more loving . 
Waiting with her eyes turned to hills higher and purer than these on which she lives , dim and far off now , but to be reached some day . 
I have it here in a corner of my library . 
I keep it hid behind a curtain , it is such a rough , ungainly thing . 
Yet there are about it touches , grand sweeps of outline , that show a master's hand . 
Its pale , vague lips seem to tremble with a terrible question . 
The deep of the night is passing while I write . 
The gas light wakens from the shadows here and there the objects which lie scattered through the room only faintly , though for they belong to the open sunlight . 
As I glance at them , they each recall some task or pleasure of the coming day . 
A half moulded child's head Aphrodite a bough of forest leaves music work homely fragments , in which lie the secrets of all eternal truth and beauty . 
Prophetic all ! Only this dumb , woful face seems to belong to and end with the night . 
I turn to look at it . 
