Island Nights' Entertainments Robert Louis Stevenson . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk Contents The Beach of Falesa A south sea bridal The Ban The Missionary Devil work Night in the bush The Bottle Imp The Isle of voices THE BEACH OF FALESA . 
CHAPTER I. A SOUTH SEA BRIDAL . 
I SAW that island first when it was neither night nor morning . 
The moon was to the west , setting , but still broad and bright . 
To the east , and right amidships of the dawn , which was all pink , the daystar sparkled like a diamond . 
I should say I had been for years on a low island near the line , living for the most part solitary among natives . 
Here was a fresh experience even the tongue would be quite strange to me and the look of these woods and mountains , and the rare smell of them , renewed my blood . 
The captain blew out the binnacle lamp . 
There ! said he , there goes a bit of smoke , Mr. Wiltshire , behind the break of the reef . 
That's Falesa , where your station is , the last village to the east nobody lives to windward I don't know why . 
Take my glass , and you can make the houses out . 
Do you catch a bit of white there to the east'ard ? the captain continued . 
Coral built , stands high , verandah you could walk on three abreast best station in the South Pacific . 
When old Adams saw it , he took and shook me by the hand . 
'I've dropped into a soft thing here , says he . 
I took and put up a bit of a stick to him 'John Adams , OBIT eighteen and sixty eight . 
Go thou and do likewise . 
I never could see much harm in Johnny . 
What did he die of ? I inquired . 
Some kind of sickness , says the captain . 
It appears it took him sudden . 
Seems he got up in the night , and filled up on Pain Killer and Kennedy's Discovery . 
No go he was booked beyond Kennedy . 
Then he had tried to open a case of gin . 
No go again not strong enough . 
Then he must have turned to and run out on the verandah , and capsized over the rail . 
When they found him , the next day , he was clean crazy carried on all the time about somebody watering his copra . 
Poor John ! Was it thought to be the island ? I asked . 
Well , it was thought to be the island , or the trouble , or something , he replied . 
I never could hear but what it was a healthy place . 
Our last man , Vigours , never turned a hair . 
As for old Captain Randall , he's been here any time since eighteen forty , forty five . 
I never could see much harm in Billy , nor much change . 
Seems as if he might live to be Old Kafoozleum . 
No , I guess it's healthy . 
There's a boat coming now , said I. She's right in the pass looks to be a sixteen foot whale two white men in the stern sheets . 
That's the boat that drowned Whistling Jimmie ! cried the Captain let's see the glass . 
Yes , that's Case , sure enough , and the darkie . 
They've got a gallows bad reputation , but you know what a place the beach is for talking . 
My belief , that Whistling Jimmie was the worst of the trouble and he's gone to glory , you see . 
What'll you bet they ain't after gin ? Lay you five to two they take six cases . 
When these two traders came aboard I was pleased with the looks of them at once , or , rather , with the looks of both , and the speech of one . 
There were no other whites upon my island , and when I sailed to the next , rough customers made the most of the society . 
Now to see these two when they came aboard was a pleasure . 
One was a negro , to be sure but they were both rigged out smart in striped pyjamas and straw hats , and Case would have passed muster in a city . 
He was yellow and smallish , had a hawk's nose to his face , pale eyes , and his beard trimmed with scissors . 
No man knew his country , beyond he was of English speech and it was clear he came of a good family and was splendidly educated . 
He could speak , when he chose , fit for a drawing room and when he chose he could blaspheme worse than a Yankee boatswain , and talk smart to sicken a Kanaka . 
The way he thought would pay best at the moment , that was Case's way , and it always seemed to come natural , and like as if he was born to it . 
He had the courage of a lion and the cunning of a rat and if he's not in hell to day , there's no such place . 
I know but one good point to the man that he was fond of his wife , and kind to her . 
So she went off home in the schooner MANU'A , and does the lady to this day in her own place . 
But of all this on that first morning I knew no more than a fly . 
All the better part of the day we sat drinking better acquaintance in the cabin , and I never heard a man talk more to the point . 
There was no smarter trader , and none dodgier , in the islands . 
I thought Falesa seemed to be the right kind of a place and the more I drank the lighter my heart . 
Our last trader had fled the place at half an hour's notice , taking a chance passage in a labour ship from up west . 
Since then the firm had not been represented , and of course there was no cargo . 
So it was high noon , and the schooner was under way before I set my foot on shore at Falesa . 
I had a glass or two on board I was just off a long cruise , and the ground heaved under me like a ship's deck . 
By the bye , says Case , we must get you a wife . 
That's so , said I I had forgotten . 
There was a crowd of girls about us , and I pulled myself up and looked among them like a Bashaw . 
They were all dressed out for the sake of the ship being in and the women of Falesa are a handsome lot to see . 
If they have a fault , they are a trifle broad in the beam and I was just thinking so when Case touched me . 
That's pretty , says he . 
I saw one coming on the other side alone . 
She had been fishing all she wore was a chemise , and it was wetted through . 
Who's she ? said I. She'll do . 
That's Uma , said Case , and he called her up and spoke to her in the native . 
She had a wide mouth , the lips and the chin cut like any statue's and the smile came out for a moment and was gone . 
I had just a share of the bow , but never another shot of her eye , and there was no more word of smiling . 
I guess it's all right , said Case . 
I guess you can have her . 
I'll make it square with the old lady . 
You can have your pick of the lot for a plug of tobacco , he added , sneering . 
I suppose it was the smile stuck in my memory , for I spoke back sharp . 
She doesn't look that sort , I cried . 
I don't know that she is , said Case . 
I believe she's as right as the mail . 
Keeps to herself , don't go round with the gang , and that . 
O no , don't you misunderstand me Uma's on the square . 
He spoke eager , I thought , and that surprised and pleased me . 
Indeed , he went on , I shouldn't make so sure of getting her , only she cottoned to the cut of your jib . 
All you have to do is to keep dark and let me work the mother my own way and I'll bring the girl round to the captain's for the marriage . 
I didn't care for the word marriage , and I said so . 
Oh , there's nothing to hurt in the marriage , says he . 
It was a board house with a strip of rickety verandah . 
If these are my only rivals , thinks I , I should do well in Falesa . 
Indeed , there was only the one way they could touch me , and that was with the guns and drink . 
His body was covered with grey hair and crawled over by flies one was in the corner of his eye he never heeded and the mosquitoes hummed about the man like bees . 
He tried to get up when I came in , but that was hopeless so he reached me a hand instead , and stumbled out some salutation . 
Papa's pretty full this morning , observed Case . 
We've had an epidemic here and Captain Randall takes gin for a prophylactic don't you , Papa ? Never took such a thing in my life ! cried the captain indignantly . 
Take gin for my health's sake , Mr. Wha's ever your name 's a precautionary measure . 
That's all right , Papa , said Case . 
But you'll have to brace up . 
There's going to be a marriage Mr. Wiltshire here is going to get spliced . 
The old man asked to whom . 
To Uma , said Case . 
Uma ! cried the captain . 
Wha's he want Uma for ? 's he come here for his health , anyway ? Wha' 'n hell's he want Uma for ? Dry up , Papa , said Case . 
'Tain't you that's to marry her . 
I guess you're not her godfather and godmother . 
I guess Mr. Wiltshire's going to please himself . 
With that he made an excuse to me that he must move about the marriage , and left me alone with the poor wretch that was his partner and his gull . 
Trade and station belonged both to Randall Case and the negro were parasites they crawled and fed upon him like the flies , he none the wiser . 
The three men's beds were on the floor , and a litter of pans and dishes . 
There was no standing furniture Randall , when he was violent , tearing it to laths . 
He was nipping gin all the while . 
Sometimes he fell asleep , and awoke again , whimpering and shivering , and every now and again he would ask me why I wanted to marry Uma . 
My friend , I was telling myself all day , you must not come to be an old gentleman like this . 
It might be four in the afternoon , perhaps , when the back door was thrust slowly open , and a strange old native woman crawled into the house almost on her belly . 
These she fixed upon me with a rapt expression that I saw to be part acting . 
She said no plain word , but smacked and mumbled with her lips , and hummed aloud , like a child over its Christmas pudding . 
From this she slipped into a kind of song . 
Who the devil's this ? cried I , for the thing startled me . 
It's Fa'avao , says Randall and I saw he had hitched along the floor into the farthest corner . 
You ain't afraid of her ? I cried . 
Me 'fraid ! cried the captain . 
My dear friend , I defy her ! I don't let her put her foot in here , only I suppose 's different to day , for the marriage . 
All right , old lady , says I , with rather a failure of a laugh , anything to oblige . 
But when you're done with my hand , you might let me know . 
These are rum manners , said I. 's a rum crowd , said the captain , and , to my surprise , he made the sign of the cross on his bare bosom . 
Hillo ! says I , are you a Papist ? He repudiated the idea with contempt . 
Hard shell Baptis' , said he . 
But , my dear friend , the Papists got some good ideas too and tha' 's one of 'em . 
Savvy ? says he , repeated the sign , and winked his dim eye at me . 
No , SIR ! he broke out again , no Papists here ! and for a long time entertained me with his religious opinions . 
The sun was down , the sky all on fire , and the lamp had been some time lighted , when Case came back with Uma and the negro . 
She showed the best bearing for a bride conceivable , serious and still and I thought shame to stand up with her in that mean house and before that grinning negro . 
My conscience smote me when we joined hands and when she got her certificate I was tempted to throw up the bargain and confess . 
Extracted from the Register by William T. Randall , Master Mariner . 
A nice paper to put in a girl's hand and see her hide away like gold . 
A man might easily feel cheap for less . 
not the least the fault of us white men , but of the missionaries . 
The more ashamed I was , the more hurry I was in to be gone and our desires thus jumping together , I made the less remark of a change in the traders . 
Case had been all eagerness to keep me now , as though he had attained a purpose , he seemed all eagerness to have me go . 
Uma , he said , could show me to my house , and the three bade us farewell indoors . 
It did me good to breathe free air it did me good to be done with the captain and see , instead , the creature at my side . 
I felt for all the world as though she were some girl at home in the Old Country , and , forgetting myself for the minute , took her hand to walk with . 
Her fingers nestled into mine , I heard her breathe deep and quick , and all at once she caught my hand to her face and pressed it there . 
And there was another thought came in my head . 
She played kitten with me now when we were alone but in the house she had carried it the way a countess might , so proud and humble . 
She was the first in the house and while I was still without I saw a match flash and the lamplight kindle in the windows . 
The station was a wonderful fine place , coral built , with quite a wide verandah , and the main room high and wide . 
My chests and cases had been piled in , and made rather of a mess and there , in the thick of the confusion , stood Uma by the table , awaiting me . 
Her shadow went all the way up behind her into the hollow of the iron roof she stood against it bright , the lamplight shining on her skin . 
I stopped in the door , and she looked at me , not speaking , with eyes that were eager and yet daunted then she touched herself on the bosom . 
Me your wifie , she said . 
It had never taken me like that before but the want of her took and shook all through me , like the wind in the luff of a sail . 
I could not speak if I had wanted and if I could , I would not . 
I prized the lid off . 
One by one I drew the bottles with a pocket corkscrew , and sent Uma out to pour the stuff from the verandah . 
She came back after the last , and looked at me puzzled like . 
No good , said I , for I was now a little better master of my tongue . 
Man he drink , he no good . 
She agreed with this , but kept considering . 
Why you bring him ? she asked presently . 
Suppose you no want drink , you no bring him , I think . 
That's all right , said I. One time I want drink too much now no want . 
You see , I no savvy I get one little wifie . 
Suppose I drink gin , my little wifie he 'fraid . 
She stood looking gravely down at me where I sat by the open case . 
I think you good man , she said . 
And suddenly she had fallen before me on the floor . 
I belong you all e same pig ! she cried . 
I CAME on the verandah just before the sun rose on the morrow . 
My house was the last on the east there was a cape of woods and cliffs behind that hid the sunrise . 
To the west , a swift cold river ran down , and beyond was the green of the village , dotted with cocoa palms and breadfruits and houses . 
It was mortal still and solemn and chilly , and the light of the dawn on the lagoon was like the shining of a fire . 
But the thing that troubled me was nearer hand . 
I thought it strange as I went out . 
When I had bathed and come back again , and found them all there , and two or three more along with them , I thought it stranger still . 
What could they see to gaze at in my house , I wondered , and went in . 
But the thought of these starers stuck in my mind , and presently I came out again . 
The sun was now up , but it was still behind the cape of woods . 
Say a quarter of an hour had come and gone . 
I have seen a house in a South Sea village thus surrounded , but then a trader was thrashing his wife inside , and she singing out . 
Here was nothing the stove was alight , the smoke going up in a Christian manner all was shipshape and Bristol fashion . 
To be sure , there was a stranger come , but they had a chance to see that stranger yesterday , and took it quiet enough . 
What ailed them now ? I leaned my arms on the rail and stared back . 
Devil a wink they had in them ! Now and then I could see the children chatter , but they spoke so low not even the hum of their speaking came my length . 
I felt I was getting daunted , and began to be afraid I looked it , which would never do . 
Up I stood , made believe to stretch myself , came down the verandah stair , and strolled towards the river . 
I saw a girl lay one hand on a young man and make a gesture upward with the other at the same time she said something in the native with a gasping voice . 
Three little boys sat beside my path , where , I must pass within three feet of them . 
Wrapped in their sheets , with their shaved heads and bits of top knots , and queer faces , they looked like figures on a chimney piece . 
Awhile they sat their ground , solemn as judges . 
and ran for his mammy . 
The natives , who would never let a joke slip , even at a burial , laughed and let up , as short as a dog's bark . 
They say it scares a man to be alone . 
What scares him in the dark or the high bush is that he can't make sure , and there might be an army at his elbow . 
What scares him worst is to be right in the midst of a crowd , and have no guess of what they're driving at . 
When that laugh stopped , I stopped too . 
Like a fool I had come out , doing my five knots like a fool I went back again . 
I never saw such fools of Kanakas as your people here , I said once to Uma , glancing out of the window at the starers . 
Savvy nothing , says Uma , with a kind of disgusted air that she was good at . 
But I was to find they hadn't forgot either , and kept an eye lifting for phenomena over my way . 
I was hard at it both these days getting my trade in order and taking stock of what Vigours had left . 
This was a job that made me pretty sick , and kept me from thinking on much else . 
Ben had taken stock the trip before I knew I could trust Ben but it was plain somebody had been making free in the meantime . 
However , there's no use crying over spilt milk . 
It was done now , and couldn't be undone . 
in order , to go round and get after the rats and cockroaches , and to fix up that store regular Sydney style . 
So much for the morning , but the day passed and the devil anyone looked near me , and from all I knew of natives in other islands I thought this strange . 
in fifty years , which I supposed was an exaggeration . 
On the green I saw a white man coming with a cassock on , by which and by the face of him I knew he was a priest . 
He was a good natured old soul to look at , gone a little grizzled , and so dirty you could have written with him on a piece of paper . 
Good day , sir , said I. He answered me eagerly in native . 
Don't you speak any English ? said I. French , says he . 
Well , said I , I'm sorry , but I can't do anything there . 
He tried me awhile in the French , and then again in native , which he seemed to think was the best chance . 
I made out he was after more than passing the time of day with me , but had something to communicate , and I listened the harder . 
I heard the names of Adams and Case and of Randall Randall the oftenest and the word poison , or something like it , and a native word that he said very often . 
I went home , repeating it to myself . 
What does fussy ocky mean ? I asked of Uma , for that was as near as I could come to it . 
Make dead , said she . 
The devil it does ! says I. Did ever you hear that Case had poisoned Johnnie Adams ? Every man he savvy that , says Uma , scornful like . 
Give him white sand bad sand . 
He got the bottle still . 
Suppose he give you gin , you no take him . 
Now I had heard much the same sort of story in other islands , and the same white powder always to the front , which made me think the less of it . 
For all that , I went over to Randall's place to see what I could pick up , and found Case on the doorstep , cleaning a gun . 
Good shooting here ? says I. A , says he . 
The bush is full of all kinds of birds . 
I wish copra was as plenty , says he I thought , slyly but there don't seem anything doing . 
I could see Black Jack in the store , serving a customer . 
That looks like business , though , said I. That's the first sale we've made in three weeks , said he . 
You don't tell me ? says I. Three weeks ? Well , well . 
If you don't believe me , he cries , a little hot , you can go and look at the copra house . 
It's half empty to this blessed hour . 
I shouldn't be much the better for that , you see , says I. For all I can tell , it might have been whole empty yesterday . 
That's so , says he , with a bit of a laugh . 
By the bye , I said , what sort of a party is that priest ? Seems rather a friendly sort . 
At this Case laughed right out loud . 
Ah ! says he , I see what ails you now . 
FATHER GALOSHES was the name he went by most , but Case always gave it the French quirk , which was another reason we had for thinking him above the common . 
Yes , I have seen him , I says . 
I made out he didn't think much of your Captain Randall . 
That he don't ! says Case . 
It was the trouble about poor Adams . 
The last day , when he lay dying , there was young Buncombe round . 
Ever met Buncombe ? I told him no . 
He's a cure , is Buncombe ! laughs Case . 
It was all the same to me , you may suppose but I said I thought Adams was the fellow to consult . 
He was jawing away about watered copra and a sight of foolery . 
'Look here , I said , 'you're pretty sick . 
Would you like to see Goloshes ? He sat right up on his elbow . 
'Get the priest , says he , 'get the priest don't let me die here like a dog ! He spoke kind of fierce and eager , but sensible enough . 
There was nothing to say against that , so we sent and asked Galuchet if he would come . 
He jumped in his dirty linen at the thought of it . 
But we had reckoned without Papa . 
He's a hard shell Baptist , is Papa no Papists need apply . 
And he took and locked the door . 
Buncombe told him he was bigoted , and I thought he would have had a fit . 
He died hard , did John Adams , says Case , with a kind of a sudden sternness . 
And what became of the priest ? I asked . 
The priest ? says Case . 
He was in a rare taking , was the priest . 
But what would you have ? Johnny had slipped his cable no more Johnny in the market and the administration racket clean played out . 
Next thing , word came to Randall the priest was praying upon Johnny's grave . 
Papa was pretty full , and got a club , and lit out straight for the place , and there was Galoshes on his knees , and a lot of natives looking on . 
There never were such larks in Falesa . 
The end of it was that Captain Randall knocked over with some kind of a fit or stroke , and the priest got in his goods after all . 
But he was the angriest priest you ever heard of , and complained to the chiefs about the outrage , as he called it . 
Now he swears old Randall gave Adams poison or something , and when the two meet they grin at each other like baboons . 
However , Case never set up to be soft , only to be square and hearty , and a man all round and , to tell the truth , he puzzled me entirely . 
I went home and asked Uma if she were a Popey , which I had made out to be the native word for Catholics . 
E LE AI ! says she . 
She always used the native when she meant no more than usually strong , and , indeed , there's more of it . 
No good Popey , she added . 
Then I asked her about Adams and the priest , and she told me much the same yarn in her own way . 
The next day was a Sunday , when there was no business to be looked for . 
Uma asked me in the morning if I was going to pray I told her she bet not , and she stopped home herself with no more words . 
The queer thing was that I came next door to going to church after all , a thing I'm little likely to forget . 
I had turned out for a stroll , and heard the hymn tune up . 
You know how it is . 
If you hear folk singing , it seems to draw you and pretty soon I found myself alongside the church . 
It isn't a fine thing to say for yourself , but I ran away and if the same kind of a shock was given me , I should run away again tomorrow . 
To see that palavering Kanaka struck all of a heap at the mere sight of me gave me a feeling as if the bottom had dropped out of the world . 
I went right home , and stayed there , and said nothing . 
You might think I would tell Uma , but that was against my system . 
So I held my tongue , and thought all the more and the more I thought , the less I liked the business . 
By Monday night I got it clearly in my head I must be tabooed . 
A new store to stand open two days in a village and not a man or woman come to see the trade was past believing . 
Uma , said I , I think I'm tabooed . 
I think so , said she . 
I thought awhile whether I should ask her more , but it's a bad idea to set natives up with any notion of consulting them , so I went to Case . 
It was dark , and he was sitting alone , as he did mostly , smoking on the stairs . 
Case , said I , here's a queer thing . 
O , fudge ! says he 'tain't the practice in these islands . 
That may be , or it mayn't , said I. It's the practice where I was before . 
You can bet I know what it's like and I tell it you for a fact , I'm tabooed . 
Well , said he , what have you been doing ? That's what I want to find out , said I. O , you can't be , said he it ain't possible . 
However , I'll tell you what I'll do . 
Just to put your mind at rest , I'll go round and find out for sure . 
Just you waltz in and talk to Papa . 
Thank you , I said , I'd rather stay right out here on the verandah . 
Your house is so close . 
I'll call Papa out here , then , says he . 
My dear fellow , I says , I wish you wouldn't . 
The fact is , I don't take to Mr. Randall . 
Case laughed , took a lantern from the store , and set out into the village . 
He was gone perhaps a quarter of an hour , and he looked mighty serious when he came back . 
Well , said he , clapping down the lantern on the verandah steps , I would never have believed it . 
I don't know where the impudence of these Kanakas 'll go next they seem to have lost all idea of respect for whites . 
What we want is a man of war a German , if we could they know how to manage Kanakas . 
I AM tabooed , then ? I cried . 
Something of the sort , said he . 
It's the worst thing of the kind I've heard of yet . 
But I'll stand by you , Wiltshire , man to man . 
You come round here to morrow about nine , and we'll have it out with the chiefs . 
They're afraid of me , or they used to be but their heads are so big by now , I don't know what to think . 
Have you found out what's the reason ? I asked . 
Not yet , said Case . 
But we'll fix them down to morrow . 
Altogether I was pretty well pleased with his attitude , and almost more the next day , when we met to go before the chiefs , to see him so stern and resolved . 
Many of the men were on their way to work and wore green wreaths , and it put me in thoughts of the st of May at home . 
This crowd opened and buzzed about the pair of us as we went in , with a sudden angry animation . 
Five chiefs were there four mighty stately men , the fifth old and puckered . 
One thing was clear there was no sign of anger in the chiefs . 
What's he been saying ? I asked , when he had done . 
It took a precious long time to say that , said I. O , the rest was sawder and BONJOUR and that , said Case . 
You know what Kanakas are . 
Well , they don't get much BONJOUR out of me , said I. You tell them who I am . 
And tell them plain that I demand the reason of this treatment as a white man and a British subject . 
I know how to deal with Kanakas give them plain sense and fair dealing , and I'll do them that much justice they knuckle under every time . 
It would be a strange thing if we came all this way and couldn't do what we pleased . 
The mere idea has always put my monkey up , and I rapped my speech out pretty big . 
laughed out aloud , and looked at me . 
Last of all , the puckered old fellow and the big young chief that spoke first started in to put Case through a kind of catechism . 
they were asking Case about my marriage , and he must have had a tough job of it to clear his feet . 
But leave Case alone he had the brains to ran a parliament . 
Well , is that all ? I asked , when a pause came . 
Come along , says he , mopping his face I'll tell you outside . 
Do you mean they won't take the taboo off ? I cried . 
It's something queer , said he . 
I won't take it at their hands , cried I. I ain't that kind of a man . 
You don't find me turn my back on a parcel of Kanakas . 
You'd better , said Case . 
And now , said I , what is all this about ? The truth is I can't rightly make it out myself . 
They have a down on you , says Case . 
Taboo a man because they have a down on him ! I cried . 
I never heard the like . 
It's worse than that , you see , said Case . 
You ain't tabooed I told you that couldn't be . 
The people won't go near you , Wiltshire , and there's where it is . 
They won't go near me ? What do you mean by that ? Why won't they go near me ? I cried . 
Seems they're frightened , says he , in a low , voice . 
Are you gone crazy , Case ? What are they frightened of ? I wish I could make out , Case answered , shaking his head . 
Appears like one of their tomfool superstitions . 
That's what I don't cotton to , he said . 
It's like the business about Vigours . 
It was some superstition business I never got the hang of it but it began to look bad before the end . 
I've heard a different story about that , said I , and I had better tell you so . 
I heard he ran away because of you . 
O ! well , I suppose he was ashamed to tell the truth , says Case I guess he thought it silly . 
And it's a fact that I packed him off . 
'What would you do , old man ? says he . 
'Get , says I , 'and not think twice about it . 
I was the gladdest kind of man to see him clear away . 
I was a fool to be so much about with Vigours . 
They cast it up to me to day . 
Didn't you hear Maea that's the young chief , the big one ripping out about 'Vika' ? That was him they were after . 
They don't seem to forget it , somehow . 
This is all very well , said I , but it don't tell me what's wrong it don't tell me what they're afraid of what their idea is . 
Well , I wish I knew , said Case . 
I can't say fairer than that . 
You might have asked , I think , says I. And so I did , says he . 
But you must have seen for yourself , unless you're blind , that the asking got the other way . 
I'll go as far as I dare for another white man but when I find I'm in the scrape myself , I think first of my own bacon . 
The loss of me is I'm too good natured . 
And I'll take the freedom of telling you you show a queer kind of gratitude to a man who's got into all this mess along of your affairs . 
There's a thing I am thinking of , said I. You were a fool to be so much about with Vigours . 
One comfort , you haven't been much about with me . 
I notice you've never been inside my house . 
Own up now you had word of this before ? It's a fact I haven't been , said he . 
It was an oversight , and I am sorry for it , Wiltshire . 
But about coming now , I'll be quite plain . 
You mean you won't ? I asked . 
Awfully sorry , old man , but that's the size of it , says Case . 
In short , you're afraid ? says I. In short , I'm afraid , says he . 
And I'm still to be tabooed for nothing ? I asked I tell you you're not tabooed , said he . 
The Kanakas won't go near you , that's all . 
I would just like to point out to you , Wiltshire , that I'm a trader myself . 
You're to have the copra , and I'm to go to the devil and shake myself . 
I don't know I wish I did . 
And so you turn your back and leave me to myself ! Is that the position ? says I. If you like to put it nasty , says he . 
I don't put it so . 
I say merely , 'I'm going to keep clear of you or , if I don't , I'll get in danger for myself . 
Well , says I , you're a nice kind of a white man ! O , I understand you're riled , said he . 
All right , I said , go and make excuses somewhere else . 
She stood up at once , like a sentry to his officer for I must say she was always well brought up , and had a great respect for whites . 
And now , says I , you belong round here , you're bound to understand this . 
What am I tabooed for , anyway ? Or , if I ain't tabooed , what makes the folks afraid of me ? She stood and looked at me with eyes like saucers . 
You no savvy ? she gasps at last . 
No , said I. How would you expect me to ? We don't have any such craziness where I come from . 
Ese no tell you ? she asked again . 
Not much , said I. D n Ese ! she cried . 
You might think it funny to hear this Kanaka girl come out with a big swear . 
There was no swearing in her no , nor anger she was beyond anger , and meant the word simple and serious . 
She stood there straight as she said it . 
I cannot justly say that I ever saw a woman look like that before or after , and it struck me mum . 
Then she made a kind of an obeisance , but it was the proudest kind , and threw her hands out open . 
I 'shamed , she said . 
Ese he tell me you savvy , he tell me you no mind , tell me you love me too much . 
Taboo belong me , she said , touching herself on the bosom , as she had done upon our wedding night . 
Now I go 'way , taboo he go 'way too . 
Then you get too much copra . 
You like more better , I think . 
TOFA , ALII , says she in the native Farewell , chief ! Hold on ! I cried . 
Don't be in such a hurry . 
She looked at me sidelong with a smile . 
You see , you get copra , she said , the same as you might offer candies to a child . 
Uma , said I , hear reason . 
I didn't know , and that's a fact and Case seems to have played it pretty mean upon the pair of us . 
But I do know now , and I don't mind I love you too much . 
You no go 'way , you no leave me , I too much sorry . 
You no love , me , she cried , you talk me bad words ! And she threw herself in a corner of the floor , and began to cry . 
Well , I'm no scholar , but I wasn't born yesterday , and I thought the worst of that trouble was over . 
However , there she lay her back turned , her face to the wall and shook with sobbing like a little child , so that her feet jumped with it . 
It's strange how it hits a man when he's in love for there's no use mincing things Kanaka and all , I was in love with her , or just as good . 
I tried to take her hand , but she would none of that . 
Uma , I said , there's no sense in carrying on like this . 
I want you stop here , I want my little wifie , I tell you true . 
No tell me true , she sobbed . 
All right , says I , I'll wait till you're through with this . 
And I sat right down beside her on the floor , and set to smooth her hair with my hand . 
You tell me true ? You like me stop ? she asked . 
I never had anything so near me as this little brown bit of a girl . 
Many things went together , and all helped to turn my head . 
But that is to look too far on . 
I will come to that part of it next . 
It was late before we thought of getting dinner . 
I was so greedy of her nearness that I sat down to dinner with my lass upon my knee , made sure of her with one hand , and ate with the other . 
Ay , and more than that . 
I didn't pretend to myself , and I didn't pretend to her . 
I saw I was clean gone and if she was to make a fool of me , she must . 
And I suppose it was this that set her talking , for now she made sure that we were friends . 
I've my own view of this old party but I was just as glad he had kept Uma clear of Apia and Papeete and these flash towns . 
It seems Case encouraged them all he could , and helped to get their house built . 
He was very kind those days , and gave Uma trade , and there is no doubt he had his eye on her from the beginning . 
However , they had scarce settled , when up turned a young man , a native , and wanted to marry her . 
At the first word of this I got downright sick with jealousy . 
And you mean to say you would have married him ? I cried . 
IOE , yes , said she . 
I like too much ! Well ! I said . 
And suppose I had come round after ? I like you more better now , said she . 
But , suppose I marry Ioane , I one good wife . 
Good girl ! says she . 
Well , I had to be pleased with that but I promise you I didn't care about the business one little bit . 
And I liked the end of that yarn no better than the beginning . 
For it seems this proposal of marriage was the start of all the trouble . 
None called at their house , none spoke to them on the roads . 
If they went to church , the other women drew their mats away and left them in a clear place by themselves . 
It was a regular excommunication , like what you read of in the Middle Ages and the cause or sense of it beyond guessing . 
They tell me no man he marry me . 
He too much 'fraid , she said . 
The only soul that came about them after this desertion was Master Case . 
Even he was chary of showing himself , and turned up mostly by night and pretty soon he began to table his cards and make up to Uma . 
I was still sore about Ioane , and when Case turned up in the same line of business I cut up downright rough . 
Well , I said , sneering , and I suppose you thought Case 'very pretty' and 'liked too much' ? Now you talk silly , said she . 
White man , he come here , I marry him all e same Kanaka very well then , he marry me all e same white woman . 
Suppose he no marry , he go 'way , woman he stop . 
All e same thief , empty hand , Tonga heart no can love ! Now you come marry me . 
You big heart you no 'shamed island girl . 
That thing I love you for too much . 
I don't know that ever I felt sicker all the days of my life . 
I so wanted , and so feared , to make a clean breast of the sweep that I had been . 
I thought it was a strange thing I should be glad to have a missionary but , if it was strange , it was still true . 
Uma , said I , you stop here in this room , and don't budge a foot out of it till I come back . 
AS I came out on the verandah , the mission boat was shooting for the mouth of the river . 
From the opposite side there was another man aiming for the same place , but he ran and got there first . 
It was Case doubtless his idea was to keep me apart from the missionary , who might serve me as interpreter but my mind was upon other things . 
I was thinking how he had jockeyed us about the marriage , and tried his hand on Uma before and at the sight of him rage flew into my nostrils . 
Get out of that , you low , swindling thief ! I cried . 
What's that you say ? says he . 
I gave him the word again , and rammed it down with a good oath . 
And if ever I catch you within six fathoms of my house , I cried , I'll clap a bullet in your measly carcase . 
You must do as you like about your house , said he , where I told you I have no thought of going but this is a public place . 
It's a place where I have private business , said I. I have no idea of a hound like you eavesdropping , and I give you notice to clear out . 
I don't take it , though , says Case . 
I'll show you , then , said I. We'll have to see about that , said he . 
I gave him first the one and then the other , so that I could hear his head rattle and crack , and he went down straight . 
Have you had enough ? cried I. But he only looked up white and blank , and the blood spread upon his face like wine upon a napkin . 
Have you had enough ? I cried again . 
Speak up , and don't lie malingering there , or I'll take my feet to you . 
He sat up at that , and held his head by the look of him you could see it was spinning and the blood poured on his pyjamas . 
I've had enough for this time , says he , and he got up staggering , and went off by the way that he had come . 
The boat was close in I saw the missionary had laid his book to one side , and I smiled to myself . 
, I saw he looked mortal sick , for the truth was he had a fever on , and had just had a chill in the boat . 
Mr. Tarleton , I believe ? says I , for I had got his name . 
And you , I suppose , are the new trader ? says he . 
You are perfectly entitled to your opinions , says he , looking a bit ugly , but I have no call to hear them . 
It so happens that you've got to hear them , I said . 
I hope that's plain ! Yes , my man , said he . 
It's more plain than creditable . 
When you are sober , you'll be sorry for this . 
He tried to pass on , but I stopped him with my hand . 
The Kanakas were beginning to growl . 
Guess they didn't like my tone , for I spoke to that man as free as I would to you . 
Now , you can't say I've deceived you , said I , and I can go on . 
I want a service I want two services , in fact and , if you care to give me them , I'll perhaps take more stock in what you call your Christianity . 
He was silent for a moment . 
You are rather a strange sort of man , says he . 
I'm the sort of man God made me , says I. I don't set up to be a gentleman , I said . 
I am not quite so sure , said he . 
And what do I want ? Well , I'll tell you the first thing . 
I'm what you call a sinner what I call a sweep and I want you to help me make it up to a person I've deceived . 
He turned and spoke to his crew in the native . 
And now I am at your service , said he , but only for the time my crew are dining . 
I must be much farther down the coast before night . 
I was delayed at Papa Malulu till this morning , and I have an engagement in Fale alii to morrow night . 
I was sorry to see you fighting , says he . 
O , that's part of the yarn I want to tell you , I said . 
After you've heard it you'll let me know whether you're sorry or not . 
We walked right in through the store , and I was surprised to find Uma had cleared away the dinner things . 
This was so unlike her ways that I saw she had done it out of gratitude , and liked her the better . 
She and Mr. Tarleton called each other by name , and he was very civil to her seemingly . 
But I thought little of that they can always find civility for a Kanaka , it's us white men they lord it over . 
Besides , I didn't want much Tarleton just them . 
I was going to do my pitch . 
Uma , said I , give us your marriage certificate . 
Come , said I , you can trust me . 
She had it about her person , as usual I believe she thought it was a pass to heaven , and if she died without having it handy she would go to hell . 
But it's the same way with all island women , and I guess they're taught it when young . 
Now , said I , with the certificate in my hand , I was married to this girl by Black Jack the negro . 
The certificate was wrote by Case , and it's a dandy piece of literature , I promise you . 
Since then I've found that there's a kind of cry in the place against this wife of mine , and so long as I keep her I cannot trade . 
Now , what would any man do in my place , if he was a man ? I said . 
The first thing he would do is this , I guess . 
And I took and tore up the certificate and bunged the pieces on the floor . 
cried Uma , and began to clap her hands but I caught one of them in mine . 
Fire away , Mr. Tarleton . 
And I guess you'd better do it in native it'll please the old lady , I said , giving her the proper name of a man's wife upon the spot . 
Mr. Wiltshire , he says , when he had made out the lines and packed off the witnesses , I have to thank you for a very lively pleasure . 
I have rarely performed the marriage ceremony with more grateful emotions . 
That was what you would call talking . 
He was going on , besides , with more of it , and I was ready for as much taffy as he had in stock , for I felt good . 
But Uma had been taken up with something half through the marriage , and cut straight in . 
How your hand he get hurt ? she asked . 
You ask Case's head , old lady , says I. She jumped with joy , and sang out . 
You haven't made much of a Christian of this one , says I to Mr. Tarleton . 
We didn't think her one of our worst , says he , when she was at Fale alii and if Uma bears malice I shall be tempted to fancy she has good cause . 
Well , there we are at service number two , said I. I want to tell you our yarn , and see if you can let a little daylight in . 
Is it long ? he asked . 
Yes , I cried it's a goodish bit of a yarn ! Well , I'll give you all the time I can spare , says he , looking at his watch . 
By God , we'll give you dinner ! I cried . 
So we ran him up a bit of a meal . 
I was bound to let the old lady have a hand in it , to show off , so I deputised her to brew the tea . 
I don't think I ever met such tea as she turned out . 
But that was not the worst , for she got round with the salt box , which she considered an extra European touch , and turned my stew into sea water . 
Well , said he at last , I am afraid you have a dangerous enemy . 
This man Case is very clever and seems really wicked . 
I must tell you I have had my eye on him for nearly a year , and have rather had the worst of our encounters . 
I had great confidence in Namu I fear it only shows how easily we are deceived . 
No one could hear him preach and not be persuaded he was a man of extraordinary parts . 
In short , I was proud of the man all the more puzzled by his letter , and took an occasion to come this way . 
For the sign is neither good nor bad . 
But if the bottle be full of gin , the gin is bad and if the sign be made in idolatry bad , so is the idolatry . 
And , very like a native pastor , he had a text apposite about the casting out of devils . 
'And who has been telling you about the Evil Eye ? I asked . 
He admitted it was Case . 
'And is this Case a man of a sanctified life ? I asked . 
He admitted he was not for , though he did not drink , he was profligate with women , and had no religion . 
'Then , said I , 'I think the less you have to do with him the better . 
But it is not easy to have the last word with a man like Namu . 
He was ready in a moment with an illustration . 
Such men teach you in your college , and you learn from them , but take care not to learn to be unholy . 
Misi , Case is my college . 
I knew not what to say . 
Mr. Vigours had evidently been driven out of Falesa by the machinations of Case and with something not very unlike the collusion of my pastor . 
I called to mind it was Namu who had reassured me about Adams and traced the rumour to the ill will of the priest . 
And I saw I must inform myself more thoroughly from an impartial source . 
For all that he is very shrewd , and , except in politics or about his own misdemeanours , a teller of the truth . 
I went to his house , told him what I had heard , and besought him to be frank . 
I do not think I had ever a more painful interview . 
And you are to remember that I thought Namu a paragon , and was proud of the man as one of the first ripe fruits of the mission . 
And now I was informed that he had fallen in a sort of dependence upon Case . 
Whatever the trader said , that Namu believed with trembling . 
You know something of Vigours and Adams , but perhaps you have never heard of old Underhill , Adams' predecessor . 
He was a quiet , mild old fellow , I remember , and we were told he had died suddenly white men die very suddenly in Falesa . 
The truth , as I now heard it , made my blood run cold . 
It seems he was struck with a general palsy , all of him dead but one eye , which he continually winked . 
At last a grave was dug , and the living body buried at the far end of the village . 
Namu , my pastor , whom I had helped to educate , offered up a prayer at the hateful scene . 
I felt myself in a very difficult position . 
Perhaps it was my duty to have denounced Namu and had him deposed . 
Perhaps I think so now , but at the time it seemed less clear . 
He had a great influence , it might prove greater than mine . 
The natives are prone to superstition perhaps by stirring them up I might but ingrain and spread these dangerous fancies . 
And Namu besides , apart from this novel and accursed influence , was a good pastor , an able man , and spiritually minded . 
Right or wrong , then , I determined on a quiet course . 
So far , then , all was well but there was one unfortunate circumstance . 
He came up with so much intentness and animosity that I felt it would be damaging to avoid him . 
'So , says he , in native , 'here is the holy man . 
He has been preaching against me , but that was not in his heart . 
He has been preaching upon the love of God but that was not in his heart , it was between his teeth . 
Will you know what was in his heart ? cries he . 
'I will show it you ! And , making a snatch at my head , he made believe to pluck out a dollar , and held it in the air . 
There went that rumour through the crowd with which Polynesians receive a prodigy . 
As for myself , I stood amazed . 
But there I was I could not stand there silent , and the best I could find to say was weak . 
'I will trouble you not to lay hands on me again , said I. 'I have no such thought , said he , 'nor will I deprive you of your dollar . 
Here it is , he said , and flung it at my feet . 
I am told it lay where it fell three days . 
I must say it was well played , said I. O ! he is clever , said Mr. Tarleton , and you can now see for yourself how dangerous . 
How he means to try we have no guess only be sure , it's something new . 
There is no end to his readiness and invention . 
I daresay as much as sixty tons , says I. And what is the profit to the local trader ? he asked . 
You may call it , three pounds , said I. Then you can reckon for yourself how much he does it for , said Mr. Tarleton . 
But the more important thing is to defeat him . 
It is clear he spread some report against Uma , in order to isolate and have his wicked will of her . 
Failing of that , and seeing a new rival come upon the scene , he used her in a different way . 
Now , the first point to find out is about Namu . 
Uma , when people began to leave you and your mother alone , what did Namu do ? Stop away all e same , says Uma . 
I fear the dog has returned to his vomit , said Mr. Tarleton . 
At the same time , this precaution may fail , and then you must turn elsewhere . 
You have two people at hand to whom you might apply . 
There is , first of all , the priest , who might protect you by the Catholic interest they are a wretchedly small body , but they count two chiefs . 
And then there is old Faiaso . 
So Mr. Tarleton said farewell and half an hour later the crew were singing and the paddles flashing in the missionary boat . 
NEAR a month went by without much doing . 
The same night of our marriage Galoshes called round , and made himself mighty civil , and got into a habit of dropping in about dark and smoking his pipe with the family . 
He could talk to Uma , of course , and started to teach me native and French at the same time . 
He was a kind old buffer , though the dirtiest you would wish to see , and he muddled me up with foreign languages worse than the tower of Babel . 
This was the idea Fa'avao had a score of bearing trees . 
Of course we could get no labour , being all as good as tabooed , and the two women and I turned to and made copra with our own hands . 
When we were at the job a good many Kanakas used to put in the best of the day looking on , and once that nigger turned up . 
He stood back with the natives and laughed and did the big don and the funny dog , till I began to get riled . 
Here , you nigger ! says I. I don't address myself to you , Sah , says the nigger . 
I know , says I , but it happens I was addressing myself to you , Mr. Black Jack . 
And all I want to know is just this did you see Case's figurehead about a week ago ? No , Sah , says he . 
That's all right , then , says I for I'll show you the own brother to it , only black , in the inside of about two minutes . 
And I began to walk towards him , quite slow , and my hands down only there was trouble in my eye , if anybody took the pains to look . 
You're a low , obstropulous fellow , Sab , says he . 
You bet ! says I. By that time he thought I was about as near as convenient , and lit out so it would have done your heart good to see him travel . 
And that was all I saw of that precious gang until what I am about to tell you . 
It was one of my chief employments these days to go pot hunting in the woods , which I found very rich in game . 
I have spoken of the cape which shut up the village and my station from the east . 
A path went about the end of it , and led into the next bay . 
A strong wind blew here daily , and as the line of the barrier reef stopped at the end of the cape , a heavy surf ran on the shores of the bay . 
Some of the trees were bright green , and some red , and the sand of the beach as black as your shoes . 
flew there in broad daylight , gnashing its teeth . 
For a long while I came as far as this shooting , and went no farther . 
There was no sign of any path beyond , and the cocoa palms in the front of the foot of the valley were the last this way . 
For the whole eye of the island , as natives call the windward end , lay desert . 
It chanced one day towards the end of the month , that I was sitting in this bay in the edge of the bush , looking east , with a Kanaka . 
I had given him a fill of tobacco , and we were making out to talk as best we could indeed , he had more English than most . 
I asked him if there was no road going eastward . 
One time one road , said he . 
Nobody he go there ? I asked . 
No good , said he . 
Too much devil he stop there . 
Oho ! says I , got um plenty devil , that bush ? Man devil , woman devil too much devil , said my friend . 
Stop there all e time . 
Man he go there , no come back . 
You think me one devil ? I asked . 
No think devil , said he soothingly . 
Think all e same fool . 
Uma , she devil ? I asked again . 
No , no no devil . 
Devil stop bush , said the young man . 
He was got up in light pyjamas , near white , his gun sparkled , he looked mighty conspicuous and the land crabs scuttled from all round him to their holes . 
Hullo , my friend ! says I , you no talk all e same true . 
Ese he go , he come back . 
Ese no all e same Ese TIAPOLO , says my friend and , with a Good bye , slunk off among the trees . 
I watched Case all round the beach , where the tide was low and let him pass me on the homeward way to Falesa . 
He was in deep thought , and the birds seemed to know it , trotting quite near him on the sand , or wheeling and calling in his ears . 
Uma , says I , when I got back , what does TIAPOLO mean ? Devil , says she . 
I thought AITU was the word for that , I said . 
AITU 'nother kind of devil , said she stop bush , eat Kanaka . 
Tiapolo big chief devil , stop home all e same Christian devil . 
Well then , said I , I'm no farther forward . 
How can Case be Tiapolo ? No all e same , said she . 
Ese belong Tiapolo Tiapolo too much like Ese all e same his son . 
Suppose Ese he wish something , Tiapolo he make him . 
Namu had been in the bush with him once , and returned glorifying God for these wonders . 
Very well , said I , I'll have a look at Master Case's place of worship myself , and we'll see about the glorifying . 
At this Uma fell in a terrible taking if I went in the high bush I should never return none could go there but by the protection of Tiapolo . 
I'll chance it on God's , said I. I'm a good sort of a fellow , Uma , as fellows go , and I guess God'll con me through . 
She was silent for a while . 
I think , said she , mighty solemn and then , presently Victoreea , he big chief ? You bet ! said I. He like you too much ? she asked again . 
I told her , with a grin , I believed the old lady was rather partial to me . 
All right , said she . 
Victoreea he big chief , like you too much . 
No can help you here in Falesa no can do too far off . 
Maea he small chief stop here . 
Suppose he like you make you all right . 
All e same God and Tiapolo . 
God he big chief got too much work . 
Tiapolo he small chief he like too much make see , work very hard . 
I'll have to hand you over to Mr. Tarleton , said I. Your theology's out of its bearings , Uma . 
I don't remember half a quarter of them , of course , for I paid little heed but two come back to me kind of clear . 
About six miles up the coast there is a sheltered cove they call FANGA ANAANA the haven full of caves . 
I've seen it from the sea myself , as near as I could get my boys to venture in and it's a little strip of yellow sand . 
Well , there was a boat going by here , with six young men of Falesa , all very pretty , Uma said , which was the loss of them . 
One proposed to land and get a drink , and , being reckless fellows , they were all of the same mind except the youngest . 
But they laughed at his words , and , being five to one , pulled in , beached the boat , and landed . 
It was a wonderful pleasant place , Lotu said , and the water excellent . 
So the rest of the day Lotu bailed for his life in the bottom of the boat , and was all drenched with sweat and cold sea water and none heeded him . 
And do you mean to tell me you can swallow a yarn like that ? I asked . 
Well , anyway , says I , you needn't be frightened about me . 
I've no use for the women devils . 
You're all the women I want , and all the devil too , old lady . 
To this she answered there were other sorts , and she had seen one with her own eyes . 
She had gone one day alone to the next bay , and , perhaps , got too near the margin of the bad place . 
It was in one of these still times that a whole gang of birds and flying foxes came pegging out of the bush like creatures frightened . 
At that she ran , and the pig after her , and as the pig ran it holla'd aloud , so that the place rang with it . 
I wish I had been there with my gun , said I. I guess that pig would have holla'd so as to surprise himself . 
But she told me a gun was of no use with the like of these , which were the spirits of the dead . 
The beginning of the desert was marked off by a wall , to call it so , for it was more of a long mound of stones . 
Up to the west side of the wall , the ground has been cleared , and there are cocoa palms and mummy apples and guavas , and lots of sensitive plants . 
The ground where there was no underwood looked to be a heap of boulders . 
I saw many green pigeons which I might have shot , only I was there with a different idea . 
But the queerness of the place it's more difficult to tell of , unless to one who has been alone in the high bush himself . 
The brightest kind of a day it is always dim down there . 
Don't think it was Uma's yarns that put me out I don't value native talk a fourpenny piece it's a thing that's natural in the bush , and that's the end of it . 
This suited me better it was the same noise all the time , and nothing to startle . 
It was all very fine to tell myself it was the branches I knew better . 
It was all very fine to tell myself it was a bird I knew never a bird that sang like that . 
We laugh at the natives and their superstitions but see how many traders take them up , splendidly educated white men , that have been book keepers and clerks in the old country . 
It's my belief a superstition grows up in a place like the different kind of weeds and as I stood there and listened to that wailing I twittered in my shoes . 
You may call me a coward to be frightened I thought myself brave enough to go on ahead . 
And sure enough , I had not gone far when I met with a queer thing . 
It was gone in a wink , the puff blowing by and the leaves closing . 
The trouble was that it seemed kind of square , and the idea of a square thing that was alive and sang knocked me sick and silly . 
I must have stood quite a while and I made pretty certain it was right out of the same tree that the singing came . 
Then I began to come to myself a bit . 
Well , says I , if this is really so , if this is a place where there are square things that sing , I'm gone up anyway . 
Let's have my fun for my money . 
I tell you my heart was like ice . 
I believe they call the thing a Tyrolean harp , whatever that may mean . 
I call them trees for the bigness , but in truth they were just big weeds , and sappy to cut through like carrot . 
The Lord knows when it was made or when deserted , for this part of the island has lain undisturbed since long before the whites came . 
A few steps beyond I hit into the path I had been always looking for . 
It was narrow , but well beaten , and I saw that Case had plenty of disciples . 
This is mighty like Kanakas but , if you look at it another way , it's mighty like white folks too . 
A bit along the path I was brought to a clear stand , and had to rub my eyes . 
Along all the top of it was a line of queer figures , idols or scarecrows , or what not . 
And the singular thing was that all these bogies were as fresh as toys out of a shop . 
began to tear the hair off the head of one of the figures . 
A little farther on I found the best curiosity of the museum . 
The first I saw of it was a longish mound of earth with a twist to it . 
Digging off the earth with my hands , I found underneath tarpaulin stretched on boards , so that this was plainly the roof of a cellar . 
It stood right on the top of the hill , and the entrance was on the far side , between two rocks , like the entrance to a cave . 
I went as far in as the bend , and , looking round the corner , saw a shining face . 
It was big and ugly , like a pantomime mask , and the brightness of it waxed and dwindled , and at times it smoked . 
Oho ! says I , luminous paint ! And I must say I rather admired the man's ingenuity . 
With a box of tools and a few mighty simple contrivances he had made out to have a devil of a temple . 
It's easy to find out what Kanakas think . 
Just go back to yourself any way round from ten to fifteen years old , and there's an average Kanaka . 
I remember a boy I was at school with at home who played the Case business . 
Thinks I to myself , I must find some way of fixing it so for Master Case . 
And the next moment I had my idea . 
We had each taken the same notion in his head , you see , that the other fellow might give him the load of his gun in the stern . 
You've shot nothing , says Case . 
I'm not on the shoot to day , said I. Well , the devil go with you for me , says he . 
The same to you , says I. But we stuck just the way we were no fear of either of us moving . 
We can't stop here all day , though , said he . 
Don't let me detain you , says I. He laughed again . 
Look here , Wiltshire , do you think me a fool ? he asked . 
Folks come fishing every day . 
I give you my word I don't want to shoot you . 
Why should I ? You don't hinder me any . 
You haven't got one pound of copra but what you made with your own hands , like a negro slave . 
You're vegetating that's what I call it and I don't care where you vegetate , nor yet how long . 
Give me your word you don't mean to shoot me , and I'll give you a lead and walk away . 
Well , said I , You're frank and pleasant , ain't you ? And I'll be the same . 
I don't mean to shoot you to day . 
Why should I ? This business is beginning it ain't done yet , Mr. Case . 
I've given you one turn already I can see the marks of my knuckles on your head to this blooming hour , and I've more cooking for you . 
I'm not a paralee , like Underhill . 
My name ain't Adams , and it ain't Vigours and I mean to show you that you've met your match . 
This is a silly way to talk , said he . 
This is not the talk to make me move on with . 
All right , said I , stay where you are . 
I ain't in any hurry , and you know it . 
I can put in a day on this beach and never mind . 
I ain't got any copra to bother with . 
I ain't got any luminous paint to see to . 
I was sorry I said that last , but it whipped out before I knew . 
I could see it took the wind out of his sails , and he stood and stared at me with his brow drawn up . 
Then I suppose he made up his mind he must get to the bottom of this . 
I take you at your word , says he , and turned his back , and walked right into the devil's bush . 
I let him go , of course , for I had passed my word . 
One thing I saw , I had been ass enough to give him warning , and that which I meant to do I must do at once . 
You would think I had had about enough excitement for one morning , but there was another turn waiting me . 
As soon as I got far enough round the cape to see my house I made out there were strangers there a little farther , and no doubt about it . 
There was a couple of armed sentinels squatting at my door . 
I could only suppose the trouble about Uma must have come to a head , and the station been seized . 
For aught I could think , Uma was taken up already , and these armed men were waiting to do the like with me . 
Nearer still I made out it was the big young chief , Maea , and that he was smiling away and smoking . 
At sight of this my heart started beating , and I took a wild hope in my head that the trouble was over , and Maea had come round . 
Uma pointed me out to him as I came up , and he met me at the head of my own stairs like a thorough gentleman . 
Vilivili , said he , which was the best they could make of my name , I pleased . 
There is no doubt when an island chief wants to be civil he can do it . 
I saw the way things were from the word go . 
There was no call for Uma to say to me He no 'fraid Ese now , come bring copra . 
I tell you I shook hands with that Kanaka like as if he was the best white man in Europe . 
The fact was , Case and he had got after the same girl or Maea suspected it , and concluded to make hay of the trader on the chance . 
He was rich as well as powerful . 
I suppose that man was worth fifty thousand nuts per annum . 
I must say he bought like a gentleman rice and tins and biscuits enough for a week's feast , and stuffs by the bolt . 
This set me thinking that both he and I were in a tightish place . 
What he had done was to fly in the face of the whole village , and the thing might cost him his authority . 
More than that , after my talk with Case on the beach , I thought it might very well cost me my life . 
See here , Uma , says I , tell him I'm sorry I made him wait , but I was up looking at Case's Tiapolo store in the bush . 
He want savvy if you no 'fraid ? translated Uma . 
Not much ! says I. Tell him the place is a blooming toy shop ! Tell him in England we give these things to the kids to play with . 
He want savvy if you hear devil sing ? she asked next . 
Tell him , as soon as I can get the strings I'll make one for his picaninnies . 
The name of the concern is a Tyrolean harp and you can tell him the name means in English that nobody but dam fools give a cent for it . 
This time he was so pleased he had to try his English again . 
You talk true ? says he . 
Rather ! said I. Talk all e same Bible . 
Bring out a Bible here , Uma , if you've got such a thing , and I'll kiss it . 
Or , I'll tell you what's better still , says I , taking a header , ask him if he's afraid to go up there himself by day . 
It appeared he wasn't he could venture as far as that by day and in company . 
She told him , and he shook hands with me up to the hilt , and , says he No talk . 
You my friend ? No sir , says I , no such foolishness . 
I've come here to trade , tell him , and not to make friends . 
But , as to Case , I'll send that man to glory ! So off Maea went , pretty well pleased , as I could see . 
CHAPTER V. NIGHT IN THE BUSH . 
WELL , I was committed now Tiapolo had to be smashed up before next day , and my hands were pretty full , not only with preparations , but with argument . 
You know her style of arguing you've had a specimen about Queen Victoria and the devil and I leave you to fancy if I was tired of it before dark . 
At last I had a good idea . 
What was the use of casting my pearls before her ? I thought some of her own chopped hay would be likelier to do the business . 
I'll tell you what , then , said I. You fish out your Bible , and I'll take that up along with me . 
She swore a Bible was no use . 
That's just your Kanaka ignorance , said I. Bring the Bible out . 
She brought it , and I turned to the title page , where I thought there would likely be some English , and so there was . 
There's no devil in hell can look near the Bible Society' Blackfriars . 
White man , he tell me you no got . 
Sounds likely , don't it ? I asked . 
Why would these islands all be chock full of them and none in Europe ? Well , you no got breadfruit , said she . 
I could have torn my hair . 
Now look here , old lady , said I , you dry up , for I'm tired of you . 
I'll take the Bible , which'll put me as straight as the mail , and that's the last word I've got to say . 
I suppose it might be eight o'clock when I took the road , laden like a donkey . 
First there was that Bible , a book as big as your head , which I had let myself in for by my own tomfoolery . 
Then there was my gun , and knife , and lantern , and patent matches , all necessary . 
Altogether , you see , I had the materials of a pretty good blow up ! Expense was nothing to me I wanted that thing done right . 
As long as I was in the open , and had the lamp in my house to steer by , I did well . 
As long as I was on the path I walked hard , but when I came to the black beach I had to run . 
For the tide was now nearly flowed and to get through with my powder dry between the surf and the steep hill , took all the quickness I possessed . 
As it was , even , the wash caught me to the knees , and I came near falling on a stone . 
The floor of the bush glimmered with dead wood , the way the match box used to shine after you had struck a lucifer . 
Big , cold drops fell on me from the branches overhead like sweat . 
There was no wind to mention only a little icy breath of a land breeze that stirred nothing and the harps were silent . 
The first landfall I made was when I got through the bush of wild cocoanuts , and came in view of the bogies on the wall . 
Mighty queer they looked by the shining of the lantern , with their painted faces and shell eyes , and their clothes and their hair hanging . 
One after another I pulled them all up and piled them in a bundle on the cellar roof , so as they might go to glory with the rest . 
Then I chose a place behind one of the big stones at the entrance , buried my powder and the two shells , and arranged my match along the passage . 
And then I had a look at the smoking head , just for good bye . 
Cheer up , says I. You're booked . 
It was my first idea to light up and be getting homeward for the darkness and the glimmer of the dead wood and the shadows of the lantern made me lonely . 
I stepped out of the cellar and argued it fore and back . 
There was a sound of the sea far down below me on the coast nearer hand not a leaf stirred I might have been the only living creature this side of Cape Horn . 
Well , as I stood there thinking , it seemed the bush woke and became full of little noises . 
In the direction of the village and the path there was nothing to be seen but when I turned inland it's a wonder to me I didn't drop . 
There , coming right up out of the desert and the bad bush there , sure enough , was a devil woman , just as the way I had figured she would look . 
I saw the light shine on her bare arms and her bright eyes , and there went out of me a yell so big that I thought it was my death . 
Ah ! No sing out ! says the devil woman , in a kind of a high whisper . 
Why you talk big voice ? Put out light ! Ese he come . 
My God Almighty , Uma , is that you ? says I. IOE , says she . 
You come alone ? I asked . 
You no 'fraid ? Ah , too much 'fraid ! she whispered , clutching me . 
She told me in two words what brought her . 
I was scarce gone , it seems , when Fa'avao came in , and the old woman had met Black Jack running as hard as he was fit from our house to Case's . 
Uma neither spoke nor stopped , but lit right out to come and warn me . 
Well , anything was better than a devil woman , but I thought her yarn serious enough . 
It was plain , too , that the mine should be sprung immediately , or Case might be in time to stop it . 
I marched into the tunnel , Uma keeping tight hold of me , opened my lantern and lit the match . 
Old lady , I said , I won't forget this night . 
You're a trump , and that's what's wrong with you . 
She humped herself close up to me . 
Too much 'fraid , was all she said . 
The far side of Case's hill goes down near as steep as a precipice into the next valley . 
We were on the very edge of it , and I could see the dead wood shine and hear the sea sound far below . 
I didn't care about the position , which left me no retreat , but I was afraid to change . 
And even if I hadn't had the wit to do that , it seemed a senseless thing to leave the good lantern to blow up with the graven images . 
The thing belonged to me , after all , and was worth money , and might come in handy . 
If I could have trusted the match , I might have run in still and rescued it . 
But who was going to trust the match ? You know what trade is . 
The stuff was good enough for Kanakas to go fishing with , where they've got to look lively anyway , and the most they risk is only to have their hand blown off . 
But for anyone that wanted to fool around a blow up like mine that match was rubbish . 
Altogether the best I could do was to lie still , see my shot gun handy , and wait for the explosion . 
But it was a solemn kind of a business . 
And then , all of a sudden , Vesuvius went off . 
no man could ask to see a better . 
At first it was just a son of a gun of a row , and a spout of fire , and the wood lighted up so that you could see to read . 
And then the trouble began . 
I saw I had rather undercalculated our distance , or over done the dynamite and powder , which you please . 
And presently I saw I had made another slip . 
The noise of the thing began to die off , shaking the island the dazzle was over and yet the night didn't come back the way I expected . 
I had no fear of fire , for these forests are too wet to kindle . 
I looked all round for his white face , you may be sure but there was not a sign of him . 
As for Uma , the life seemed to have been knocked right out of her by the bang and blaze of it . 
There was one bad point in my game . 
One of the blessed graven images had come down all afire , hair and clothes and body , not four yards away from me . 
It was my first idea to have crawled , and then I thought speed was the main thing , and stood half up to make a rush . 
The same moment from somewhere between me and the sea there came a flash and a report , and a rifle bullet screeched in my ear . 
It makes a man mighty wide awake to be in the kind of box that I was in . 
I scarcely knew where I was hurt , or whether I was hurt or not , but turned right over on my face to crawl after my weapon . 
Unless you have tried to get about with a smashed leg you don't know what pain is , and I let out a howl like a bullock's . 
This was the unluckiest noise that ever I made in my life . 
The Winchester cracked again , and down she went . 
I had been scurried and put out before . 
No more of that for me . 
He had knocked over my girl , I had got to fix him for it and I lay there and gritted my teeth , and footed up the chances . 
My leg was broke , my gun was gone . 
Case had still ten shots in his Winchester . 
It looked a kind of hopeless business . 
But I never despaired nor thought upon despairing that man had got to go . 
For a goodish bit not one of us let on . 
Then I heard Case begin to move nearer in the bush , but mighty careful . 
It was by this that I made out Case's head looking at me over a big tuft of ferns , and at the same time the brute saw me and shouldered his Winchester . 
I lay quite still , and as good as looked into the barrel it was my last chance , but I thought my heart would have come right out of its bearings . 
Lucky for me it was no shot gun , for the bullet struck within an inch of me and knocked the dirt in my eyes . 
Just you try and see if you can lie quiet , and let a man take a sitting shot at you and miss you by a hair . 
But I did , and lucky too . 
A while Case stood with the Winchester at the port arms then lie gave a little laugh to himself , and stepped round the ferns . 
His Winchester had gone the same road as my shot gun it was nothing to me I defied him now . 
I'm a pretty strong man anyway , but I never knew what strength was till I got hold of Case . 
This wakened him up , and he fastened his teeth in my forearm like a weasel . 
My leg gave me all the pain I had any use for , and I drew my knife and got it in the place . 
His body kicked under me like a spring sofa he gave a dreadful kind of a long moan , and lay still . 
I wonder if you're dead ? I hope so ! I thought , for my head was swimming . 
But I wasn't going to take chances I had his own example too close before me for that and I tried to draw the knife out to give it him again . 
The blood came over my hands , I remember , hot as tea and with that I fainted clean away , and fell with my head on the man's mouth . 
Then it came back , and the first thing I attended to was to give him the knife again a half a dozen times up to the handle . 
I believe he was dead already , but it did him no harm and did me good . 
I bet you're dead now , I said , and then I called to Uma . 
Nothing answered , and I made a move to go and grope for her , fouled my broken leg , and fainted again . 
When I came to myself the second time the clouds had all cleared away , except a few that sailed there , white as cotton . 
The moon was up a tropic moon . 
The moon at home turns a wood black , but even this old butt end of a one showed up that forest , as green as by day . 
The night birds or , rather , they're a kind of early morning bird sang out with their long , falling notes like nightingales . 
It appears she was afraid to cry out loud , because of the AITUS . 
Uma was for neither use nor ornament , and could only clutch hold of me and shake and cry . 
I don't suppose there was ever anybody worse scared , and , to do her justice , she had had a lively night of it . 
Talk about meat and drink ! To see that man lying there dead as a herring filled me full . 
I didn't expect Maea for a long while yet and , indeed , I thought there was an off chance he might go back on the whole idea and not come at all . 
I was the better pleased when , about an hour after daylight , I heard sticks smashing and a lot of Kanakas laughing , and singing out to keep their courage up . 
It was Mr. Tarleton , who had turned up late last night in Falesa , having left his boat and walked the last stage with a lantern . 
They buried Case upon the field of glory , right in the hole where he had kept the smoking head . 
Then they made me a litter of poles and carried me down to the station . 
Mr. Tarleton set my leg , and made a regular missionary splice of it , so that I limp to this day . 
appeared to belong to the Samoa woman . 
It was I that bought her out at a mighty reasonable figure , for she was in a hurry to get home . 
I must say Mr. Tarleton did the right thing by us but he took a meanish kind of a revenge . 
Now , Mr. Wiltshire , said he , I've put you all square with everybody here . 
It wasn't difficult to do , Case being gone but I have done it , and given my pledge besides that you will deal fairly with the natives . 
I must ask you to keep my word . 
Well , so I did . 
As for the old lady , you know her as well as I do . 
She's only the one fault . 
If you don't keep your eye lifting she would give away the roof off the station . 
Well , it seems it's natural in Kanakas . 
She's turned a powerful big woman now , and could throw a London bobby over her shoulder . 
But that's natural in Kanakas too , and there's no manner of doubt that she's an A wife . 
Mr. Tarleton's gone home , his trick being over . 
He was the best missionary I ever struck , and now , it seems , he's parsonising down Somerset way . 
Well , that's best for him he'll have no Kanakas there to get luny over . 
My public house ? Not a bit of it , nor ever likely . 
I'm stuck here , I fancy . 
But what bothers me is the girls . 
I can't reconcile my mind to their taking up with Kanakas , and I'd like to know where I'm to find the whites ? THE BOTTLE IMP . 
The root idea is there and identical , and yet I hope I have made it a new thing . 
And the fact that the tale has been designed and written for a Polynesian audience may lend it some extraneous interest nearer home . 
At length it came in Keawe's mind to have a sight of the great world and foreign cities , and he shipped on a vessel bound to San Francisco . 
This is a fine town , with a fine harbour , and rich people uncountable and , in particular , there is one hill which is covered with palaces . 
The man was elderly , with a bald head and a black beard and his face was heavy with sorrow , and he bitterly sighed . 
And the truth of it is , that as Keawe looked in upon the man , and the man looked out upon Keawe , each envied the other . 
All of a sudden , the man smiled and nodded , and beckoned Keawe to enter , and met him at the door of the house . 
This is a fine house of mine , said the man , and bitterly sighed . 
Truly , said Keawe , this is a beautiful house if I lived in the like of it , I should be laughing all day long . 
You have some money , I suppose ? I have fifty dollars , said Keawe but a house like this will cost more than fifty dollars . 
The man made a computation . 
I am sorry you have no more , said he , for it may raise you trouble in the future but it shall be yours at fifty dollars . 
The house ? asked Keawe . 
No , not the house , replied the man but the bottle . 
Withinsides something obscurely moved , like a shadow and a fire . 
This is the bottle , said the man and , when Keawe laughed , You do not believe me ? he added . 
Try , then , for yourself . 
See if you can break it . 
So Keawe took the bottle up and dashed it on the floor till he was weary but it jumped on the floor like a child's ball , and was not injured . 
This is a strange thing , said Keawe . 
For by the touch of it , as well as by the look , the bottle should be of glass . 
Of glass it is , replied the man , sighing more heavily than ever but the glass of it was tempered in the flames of hell . 
An imp lives in it , and that is the shadow we behold there moving or so I suppose . 
Napoleon had this bottle , and by it he grew to be the king of the world but he sold it at the last , and fell . 
Captain Cook had this bottle , and by it he found his way to so many islands but he , too , sold it , and was slain upon Hawaii . 
For , once it is sold , the power goes and the protection and unless a man remain content with what he has , ill will befall him . 
And yet you talk of selling it yourself ? Keawe said . 
I have all I wish , and I am growing elderly , replied the man . 
To be sure , that is a drawback and no mistake , cried Keawe . 
I would not meddle with the thing . 
I can do without a house , thank God but there is one thing I could not be doing with one particle , and that is to be damned . 
Dear me , you must not run away with things , returned the man . 
Well , I observe two things , said Keawe . 
All the time you keep sighing like a maid in love , that is one and , for the other , you sell this bottle very cheap . 
I have told you already why I sigh , said the man . 
It is because I fear my health is breaking up and , as you said yourself , to die and go to the devil is a pity for anyone . 
As for why I sell so cheap , I must explain to you there is a peculiarity about the bottle . 
If you sell it for as much as you paid for it , back it comes to you again like a homing pigeon . 
It follows that the price has kept falling in these centuries , and the bottle is now remarkably cheap . 
I bought it myself from one of my great neighbours on this hill , and the price I paid was only ninety dollars . 
I could sell it for as high as eighty nine dollars and ninety nine cents , but not a penny dearer , or back the thing must come to me . 
Now , about this there are two bothers . 
First , when you offer a bottle so singular for eighty odd dollars , people suppose you to be jesting . 
And second but there is no hurry about that and I need not go into it . 
Only remember it must be coined money that you sell it for . 
How am I to know that this is all true ? asked Keawe . 
Some of it you can try at once , replied the man . 
Give me your fifty dollars , take the bottle , and wish your fifty dollars back into your pocket . 
If that does not happen , I pledge you my honour I will cry off the bargain and restore your money . 
You are not deceiving me ? said Keawe . 
The man bound himself with a great oath . 
Well , I will risk that much , said Keawe , for that can do no harm . 
And he paid over his money to the man , and the man handed him the bottle . 
Imp of the bottle , said Keawe , I want my fifty dollars back . 
And sure enough he had scarce said the word before his pocket was as heavy as ever . 
To be sure this is a wonderful bottle , said Keawe . 
And now good morning to you , my fine fellow , and the devil go with you for me ! said the man . 
Hold on , said Keawe , I don't want any more of this fun . 
Here , take your bottle back . 
You have bought it for less than I paid for it , replied the man , rubbing his hands . 
It is yours now and , for my part , I am only concerned to see the back of you . 
And with that he rang for his Chinese servant , and had Keawe shown out of the house . 
Now , when Keawe was in the street , with the bottle under his arm , he began to think . 
If all is true about this bottle , I may have made a losing bargain , thinks he . 
But perhaps the man was only fooling me . 
The first thing he did was to count his money the sum was exact forty nine dollars American money , and one Chili piece . 
That looks like the truth , said Keawe . 
Now I will try another part . 
The streets in that part of the city were as clean as a ship's decks , and though it was noon , there were no passengers . 
Keawe set the bottle in the gutter and walked away . 
Twice he looked back , and there was the milky , round bellied bottle where he left it . 
And that looks like the truth , said Keawe . 
The next thing he did was to buy a cork screw in a shop , and go apart into a secret place in the fields . 
And there he tried to draw the cork , but as often as he put the screw in , out it came again , and the cork as whole as ever . 
This is some new sort of cork , said Keawe , and all at once he began to shake and sweat , for he was afraid of that bottle . 
And here he had an idea . 
So he went in and offered the bottle for a hundred dollars . 
Now I shall know the truth upon another point . 
So he went back on board his ship , and , when he opened his chest , there was the bottle , and had come more quickly than himself . 
Now Keawe had a mate on board whose name was Lopaka . 
What ails you ? said Lopaka , that you stare in your chest ? They were alone in the ship's forecastle , and Keawe bound him to secrecy , and told all . 
This is a very strange affair , said Lopaka and I fear you will be in trouble about this bottle . 
But there is one point very clear that you are sure of the trouble , and you had better have the profit in the bargain . 
Upon that they were agreed , and it was not long before the ship returned to Honolulu , carrying Keawe and Lopaka , and the bottle . 
They were scarce come ashore when they met a friend upon the beach , who began at once to condole with Keawe . 
I do not know what I am to be condoled about , said Keawe . 
But Lopaka was thinking to himself , and presently , when Keawe's grief was a little abated , I have been thinking , said Lopaka . 
These lands will now be yours ? asked Lopaka . 
And so they will , says Keawe , and began again to lament for his relatives . 
No , said Lopaka , do not lament at present . 
I have a thought in my mind . 
How if this should be the doing of the bottle ? For here is the place ready for your house . 
If this be so , cried Keawe , it is a very ill way to serve me by killing my relatives . 
But it may be , indeed for it was in just such a station that I saw the house with my mind's eye . 
The house , however , is not yet built , said Lopaka . 
Let us go to the lawyer , said Lopaka I have still this idea in my mind . 
Now , when they came to the lawyer's , it appeared Keawe's uncle had grown monstrous rich in the last days , and there was a fund of money . 
And here is the money for the house ! cried Lopaka . 
If you are thinking of a new house , said the lawyer , here is the card of a new architect , of whom they tell me great things . 
Better and better ! cried Lopaka . 
Here is all made plain for us . 
Let us continue to obey orders . 
So they went to the architect , and he had drawings of houses on his table . 
You want something out of the way , said the architect . 
How do you like this ? and he handed a drawing to Keawe . 
Now , when Keawe set eyes on the drawing , he cried out aloud , for it was the picture of his thought exactly drawn . 
I am in for this house , thought he . 
Little as I like the way it comes to me , I am in for it now , and I may as well take the good along with the evil . 
The architect put many questions , and took his pen and made a computation and when he had done he named the very sum that Keawe had inherited . 
Lopaka and Keawe looked at one another and nodded . 
It is quite clear , thought Keawe , that I am to have this house , whether or no . 
But with the house I am saddled , and I may as well take the good along with the evil . 
The time was up when they got back . 
Now the house stood on the mountain side , visible to ships . 
Above , the forest ran up into the clouds of rain below , the black lava fell in cliffs , where the kings of old lay buried . 
As for the house , it was three storeys high , with great chambers and broad balconies on each . 
The windows were of glass , so excellent that it was as clear as water and as bright as day . 
All manner of furniture adorned the chambers . 
When they had viewed all , Keawe and Lopaka sat on the porch . 
Well , asked Lopaka , is it all as you designed ? Words cannot utter it , said Keawe . 
It is better than I dreamed , and I am sick with satisfaction . 
There is but one thing to consider , said Lopaka all this may be quite natural , and the bottle imp have nothing whatever to say to it . 
If I were to buy the bottle , and got no schooner after all , I should have put my hand in the fire for nothing . 
I gave you my word , I know but yet I think you would not grudge me one more proof . 
I have sworn I would take no more favours , said Keawe . 
I have gone already deep enough . 
This is no favour I am thinking of , replied Lopaka . 
It is only to see the imp himself . 
There is nothing to be gained by that , and so nothing to be ashamed of and yet , if I once saw him , I should be sure of the whole matter . 
So indulge me so far , and let me see the imp and , after that , here is the money in my hand , and I will buy it . 
There is only one thing I am afraid of , said Keawe . 
The imp may be very ugly to view and if you once set eyes upon him you might be very undesirous of the bottle . 
I am a man of my word , said Lopaka . 
And here is the money betwixt us . 
Very well , replied Keawe . 
I have a curiosity myself . 
So come , let us have one look at you , Mr. Imp . 
Now as soon as that was said , the imp looked out of the bottle , and in again , swift as a lizard and there sat Keawe and Lopaka turned to stone . 
The night had quite come , before either found a thought to say or voice to say it with and then Lopaka pushed the money over and took the bottle . 
I am a man of my word , said he , and had need to be so , or I would not touch this bottle with my foot . 
Well , I shall get my schooner and a dollar or two for my pocket and then I will be rid of this devil as fast as I can . 
For to tell you the plain truth , the look of him has cast me down . 
But for my part , I am so extremely terrified myself , I have not the heart to blame you . 
But the next day came very brightly , and that new house of his was so delightful to behold that he forgot his terrors . 
One day followed another , and Keawe dwelt there in perpetual joy . 
So time went by , until one day Keawe went upon a visit as far as Kailua to certain of his friends . 
Now Keawe no sooner beheld her than he drew rein . 
I thought I knew everyone in this country , said he . 
How comes it that I do not know you ? I am Kokua , daughter of Kiano , said the girl , and I have just returned from Oahu . 
Who are you ? I will tell you who I am in a little , said Keawe , dismounting from his horse , but not now . 
For I have a thought in my mind , and if you knew who I was , you might have heard of me , and would not give me a true answer . 
But tell me , first of all , one thing Are you married ? At this Kokua laughed out aloud . 
It is you who ask questions , she said . 
Are you married yourself ? Indeed , Kokua , I am not , replied Keawe , and never thought to be until this hour . 
But here is the plain truth . 
I have met you here at the roadside , and I saw your eyes , which are like the stars , and my heart went to you as swift as a bird . 
Kokua said never a word , but she looked at the sea and laughed . 
Kokua , said Keawe , if you say nothing , I will take that for the good answer so let us be stepping to your father's door . 
She went on ahead of him , still without speech only sometimes she glanced back and glanced away again , and she kept the strings of her hat in her mouth . 
Now , when they had come to the door , Kiano came out on his verandah , and cried out and welcomed Keawe by name . 
At that the girl looked over , for the fame of the great house had come to her ears and , to be sure , it was a great temptation . 
The next day he had a word with Kiano , and found the girl alone . 
Kokua , said he , you made a mock of me all the evening and it is still time to bid me go . 
Now you know all , and if you wish to have seen the last of me , say so at once . 
No , said Kokua but this time she did not laugh , nor did Keawe ask for more . 
This was the wooing of Keawe things had gone quickly but so an arrow goes , and the ball of a rifle swifter still , and yet both may strike the target . 
He came to the Bright House , and still he was singing . 
He sat and ate in the broad balcony , and the Chinaman wondered at his master , to hear how he sang between the mouthfuls . 
Here am I now upon my high place , he said to himself . 
Life may be no better this is the mountain top and all shelves about me toward the worse . 
For he knew the likeness of that patch , and knew that he was fallen in the Chinese Evil . 
Now , it is a sad thing for any man to fall into this sickness . 
Very willingly could I leave Hawaii , the home of my fathers , Keawe was thinking . 
Very lightly could I leave my house , the high placed , the many windowed , here upon the mountains . 
Very bravely could I go to Molokai , to Kalaupapa by the cliffs , to live with the smitten and to sleep there , far from my fathers . 
A little beyond the midst of the night , there came in his mind the recollection of that bottle . 
He went round to the back porch , and called to memory the day when the devil had looked forth and at the thought ice ran in his veins . 
A dreadful thing is the bottle , thought Keawe , and dreadful is the imp , and it is a dreadful thing to risk the flames of hell . 
There must I go first , he thought , and see Lopaka . 
For the best hope that I have now is to find that same bottle I was so pleased to be rid of . 
So he came down to Hookena , and there was all the country gathered for the steamer as usual . 
Keawe of the Bright House is out of spirits , said one to another . 
Indeed , and so he was , and little wonder . 
Then the HALL came , and the whaleboat carried him on board . 
Towards evening they passed Diamond Head , and came to the pier of Honolulu . 
Keawe stepped out among the crowd and began to ask for Lopaka . 
Keawe called to mind a friend of his , a lawyer in the town , and inquired of him . 
What can I do to serve you ? said the lawyer . 
You are a friend of Lopaka's , replied Keawe , and Lopaka purchased from me a certain piece of goods that I thought you might enable me to trace . 
The lawyer's face became very dark . 
I do not profess to misunderstand you , Mr. Keawe , said he , though this is an ugly business to be stirring in . 
You may be sure I know nothing , but yet I have a guess , and if you would apply in a certain quarter I think you might have news . 
And he named the name of a man , which , again , I had better not repeat . 
No doubt I am upon the track , thought Keawe . 
When I see pale cheeks and hear sighing , I shall know that I am near the bottle . 
So it befell at last that he was recommended to a Haole in Beritania Street . 
Here it is , to be sure , thought Keawe , and so with this man he noways veiled his errand . 
I am come to buy the bottle , said he . 
At the word , the young Haole of Beritania Street reeled against the wall . 
The bottle ! he gasped . 
To buy the bottle ! Then he seemed to choke , and seizing Keawe by the arm carried him into a room and poured out wine in two glasses . 
Here is my respects , said Keawe , who had been much about with Haoles in his time . 
Yes , he added , I am come to buy the bottle . 
What is the price by now ? At that word the young man let his glass slip through his fingers , and looked upon Keawe like a ghost . 
The price , says he the price ! You do not know the price ? It is for that I am asking you , returned Keawe . 
Well , well , I shall have the less to pay for it , says Keawe . 
How much did it cost you ? The young man was as white as a sheet . 
Two cents , said he . 
What ? cried Keawe , two cents ? Why , then , you can only sell it for one . 
The young man of Beritania Street fell upon his knees . 
For God's sake buy it ! he cried . 
You can have all my fortune in the bargain . 
I was mad when I bought it at that price . 
I had embezzled money at my store I was lost else I must have gone to jail . 
Give me the bottle , and the change which I make sure you have all ready . 
Here is a five cent piece . 
And , sure enough , when he got home to his room , and stripped himself before a glass , his flesh was whole like an infant's . 
Away ahead of him he saw them blaze with his mind's eye , and his soul shrank , and darkness fell upon the light . 
When Keawe came to himself a little , he was aware it was the night when the band played at the hotel . 
Of a sudden the band played HIKI AO AO that was a song that he had sung with Kokua , and at the strain courage returned to him . 
It is done now , he thought , and once more let me take the good along with the evil . 
She was pleasant in her nature . 
She had the good word always . 
Full of song she was , and went to and fro in the Bright House , the brightest thing in its three storeys , carolling like the birds . 
You do well to weep in this house , Kokua , he said . 
Then you wedded poor Kokua and the good God knows what is amiss in her but from that day you have not smiled . 
Oh ! she cried , what ails me ? I thought I was pretty , and I knew I loved him . 
What ails me that I throw this cloud upon my husband ? Poor Kokua , said Keawe . 
He sat down by her side , and sought to take her hand but that she plucked away . 
Poor Kokua , he said , again . 
My poor child my pretty . 
And I had thought all this while to spare you ! Well , you shall know all . 
, that he can yet call up a smile when he beholds you . 
With that , he told her all , even from the beginning . 
You have done this for me ? she cried Ah , well , then what do I care ! and she clasped and wept upon him . 
I tell you , Keawe , I shall save you with these hands , or perish in your company . 
I was educated in a school in Honolulu I am no common girl . 
And I tell you , I shall save my lover . 
What is this you say about a cent ? But all the world is not American . 
In England they have a piece they call a farthing , which is about half a cent . 
We could not do better . 
Come , Keawe , let us go to the French islands let us go to Tahiti , as fast as ships can bear us . 
There we have four centimes , three centimes , two centimes , one centime four possible sales to come and go on and two of us to push the bargain . 
Come , my Keawe ! kiss me , and banish care . 
Gift of God ! he cried . 
Early the next day Kokua was about her preparations . 
Depression fell upon their spirits . 
They would sit at night in their new house , after a day's weariness , and not exchange one word , or the silence would be broken by Kokua bursting suddenly into sobs . 
Sometimes they would pray together sometimes they would have the bottle out upon the floor , and sit all evening watching how the shadow hovered in the midst . 
At such times they would be afraid to go to rest . 
One night it was so when Kokua awoke . 
She felt in the bed and his place was cold . 
Then fear fell upon her , and she sat up in bed . 
A little moonshine filtered through the shutters . 
The room was bright , and she could spy the bottle on the floor . 
Outside it blew high , the great trees of the avenue cried aloud , and the fallen leaves rattled in the verandah . 
Softly she arose , set the door ajar , and looked forth into the moonlit yard . 
There , under the bananas , lay Keawe , his mouth in the dust , and as he lay he moaned . 
It was Kokua's first thought to run forward and console him her second potently withheld her . 
Keawe had borne himself before his wife like a brave man it became her little in the hour of weakness to intrude upon his shame . 
With the thought she drew back into the house . 
She took in her hands the change the precious centimes they kept ever at their side for this coin is little used , and they had made provision at a Government office . 
When she was forth in the avenue clouds came on the wind , and the moon was blackened . 
The town slept , and she knew not whither to turn till she heard one coughing in the shadow of the trees . 
Will you do me a service ? said Kokua . 
As one stranger to another , and as an old man to a young woman , will you help a daughter of Hawaii ? Ah , said the old man . 
So you are the witch from the eight islands , and even my old soul you seek to entangle . 
But I have heard of you , and defy your wickedness . 
Sit down here , said Kokua , and let me tell you a tale . 
And she told him the story of Keawe from the beginning to the end . 
And now , said she , I am his wife , whom he bought with his soul's welfare . 
And what should I do ? If I went to him myself and offered to buy it , he would refuse . 
But if you go , he will sell it eagerly I will await you here you will buy it for four centimes , and I will buy it again for three . 
And the Lord strengthen a poor girl ! If you meant falsely , said the old man , I think God would strike you dead . 
He would ! cried Kokua . 
I could not be so treacherous God would not suffer it . 
Give me the four centimes and await me here , said the old man . 
Now , when Kokua stood alone in the street , her spirit died . 
Then she saw the old man returning , and he had the bottle in his hand . 
I have done your bidding , said he . 
I left your husband weeping like a child to night he will sleep easy . 
And he held the bottle forth . 
Before you give it me , Kokua panted , take the good with the evil ask to be delivered from your cough . 
I am an old man , replied the other , and too near the gate of the grave to take a favour from the devil . 
But what is this ? Why do you not take the bottle ? Do you hesitate ? Not hesitate ! cried Kokua . 
It is my hand resists , my flesh shrinks back from the accursed thing . 
One moment only ! The old man looked upon Kokua kindly . 
Poor child ! said he , you fear your soul misgives you . 
Well , let me keep it . 
I am old , and can never more be happy in this world , and as for the next Give it me ! gasped Kokua . 
Do you think I am so base as that ? Give me the bottle . 
God bless you , child , said the old man . 
Kokua concealed the bottle under her holoku , said farewell to the old man , and walked off along the avenue , she cared not whither . 
For all roads were now the same to her , and led equally to hell . 
Sometimes she walked , and sometimes ran sometimes she screamed out loud in the night , and sometimes lay by the wayside in the dust and wept . 
All that she had heard of hell came back to her she saw the flames blaze , and she smelt the smoke , and her flesh withered on the coals . 
Near day she came to her mind again , and returned to the house . 
It was even as the old man said Keawe slumbered like a child . 
Kokua stood and gazed upon his face . 
Now , my husband , said she , it is your turn to sleep . 
When you wake it will be your turn to sing and laugh . 
But for poor Kokua , alas ! that meant no evil for poor Kokua no more sleep , no more singing , no more delight , whether in earth or heaven . 
With that she lay down in the bed by his side , and her misery was so extreme that she fell in a deep slumber instantly . 
Late in the morning her husband woke her and gave her the good news . 
It seemed he was silly with delight , for he paid no heed to her distress , ill though she dissembled it . 
The words stuck in her mouth , it mattered not Keawe did the speaking . 
She ate not a bite , but who was to observe it ? for Keawe cleared the dish . 
He laughed at the old man that was fool enough to buy that bottle . 
A worthy old man he seemed , Keawe said . 
But no one can judge by appearances . 
For why did the old reprobate require the bottle ? My husband , said Kokua , humbly , his purpose may have been good . 
Keawe laughed like an angry man . 
Fiddle de dee ! cried Keawe . 
An old rogue , I tell you and an old ass to boot . 
For the bottle was hard enough to sell at four centimes and at three it will be quite impossible . 
The margin is not broad enough , the thing begins to smell of scorching brrr ! said he , and shuddered . 
It is true I bought it myself at a cent , when I knew not there were smaller coins . 
I was a fool for my pains there will never be found another and whoever has that bottle now will carry it to the pit . 
O my husband ! said Kokua . 
Is it not a terrible thing to save oneself by the eternal ruin of another ? It seems to me I could not laugh . 
I would be filled with melancholy . 
I would pray for the poor holder . 
Then Keawe , because he felt the truth of what she said , grew the more angry . 
Heighty teighty ! cried he . 
You may be filled with melancholy if you please . 
It is not the mind of a good wife . 
If you thought at all of me , you would sit shamed . 
Thereupon he went out , and Kokua was alone . 
What chance had she to sell that bottle at two centimes ? None , she perceived . 
And if she had any , here was her husband hurrying her away to a country where there was nothing lower than a cent . 
And here on the morrow of her sacrifice was her husband leaving her and blaming her . 
By and by , Keawe came back , and would have her take a drive . 
My husband , I am ill , she said . 
I am out of heart . 
Excuse me , I can take no pleasure . 
Then was Keawe more wroth than ever . 
He went forth again furious , and wandered in the town all day . 
He met friends , and drank with them they hired a carriage and drove into the country , and there drank again . 
He had a low mind and a foul mouth he loved to drink and to see others drunken and he pressed the glass upon Keawe . 
Soon there was no more money in the company . 
Here , you ! says the boatswain , you are rich , you have been always saying . 
You have a bottle or some foolishness . 
Yes , says Keawe , I am rich I will go back and get some money from my wife , who keeps it . 
That's a bad idea , mate , said the boatswain . 
Never you trust a petticoat with dollars . 
They're all as false as water you keep an eye on her . 
Now , this word struck in Keawe's mind for he was muddled with what he had been drinking . 
I should not wonder but she was false , indeed , thought he . 
Why else should she be so cast down at my release ? But I will show her I am not the man to be fooled . 
I will catch her in the act . 
The night had come again there was a light within , but never a sound and Keawe crept about the corner , opened the back door softly , and looked in . 
A long time Keawe stood and looked in the doorway . 
And then he had another thought and it was a strange one , that made his cheeks to burn . 
I must make sure of this , thought he . 
So he closed the door , and went softly round the corner again , and then came noisily in , as though he were but now returned . 
And , lo ! by the time he opened the front door no bottle was to be seen and Kokua sat in a chair and started up like one awakened out of sleep . 
I have been drinking all day and making merry , said Keawe . 
I have been with good companions , and now I only come back for money , and return to drink and carouse with them again . 
Both his face and voice were as stern as judgment , but Kokua was too troubled to observe . 
You do well to use your own , my husband , said she , and her words trembled . 
O , I do well in all things , said Keawe , and he went straight to the chest and took out money . 
But he looked besides in the corner where they kept the bottle , and there was no bottle there . 
It is what I feared , he thought . 
It is she who has bought it . 
And then he came to himself a little and rose up but the sweat streamed on his face as thick as the rain and as cold as the well water . 
Kokua , said he , I said to you to day what ill became me . 
Now I return to carouse with my jolly companions , and at that he laughed a little quietly . 
I will take more pleasure in the cup if you forgive me . 
She clasped his knees in a moment she kissed his knees with flowing tears . 
O , she cried , I asked but a kind word ! Let us never one think hardly of the other , said Keawe , and was gone out of the house . 
Now , the money that Keawe had taken was only some of that store of centime pieces they had laid in at their arrival . 
It was very sure he had no mind to be drinking . 
His wife had given her soul for him , now he must give his for hers no other thought was in the world with him . 
At the corner , by the old calaboose , there was the boatswain waiting . 
My wife has the bottle , said Keawe , and , unless you help me to recover it , there can be no more money and no more liquor to night . 
You do not mean to say you are serious about that bottle ? cried the boatswain . 
There is the lamp , said Keawe . 
Do I look as if I was jesting ? That is so , said the boatswain . 
You look as serious as a ghost . 
she will give you instantly . 
But whatever you do , never breathe a word to her that you have come from me . 
Mate , I wonder are you making a fool of me ? asked the boatswain . 
It will do you no harm if I am , returned Keawe . 
That is so , mate , said the boatswain . 
And if you doubt me , added Keawe , you can try . 
Very well , Kanaka , says the boatswain . 
I will try but if you are having your fun out of me , I will take my fun out of you with a belaying pin . 
So the whaler man went off up the avenue and Keawe stood and waited . 
It was near the same spot where Kokua had waited the night before but Keawe was more resolved , and never faltered in his purpose only his soul was bitter with despair . 
It seemed a long time he had to wait before he heard a voice singing in the darkness of the avenue . 
He knew the voice to be the boatswain's but it was strange how drunken it appeared upon a sudden . 
Next , the man himself came stumbling into the light of the lamp . 
He had the devil's bottle buttoned in his coat another bottle was in his hand and even as he came in view he raised it to his mouth and drank . 
You have it , said Keawe . 
Hands off ! cried the boatswain , jumping back . 
Take a step near me , and I'll smash your mouth . 
You thought you could make a cat's paw of me , did you ? What do you mean ? cried Keawe . 
Mean ? cried the boatswain . 
This is a pretty good bottle , this is that's what I mean . 
How I got it for two centimes I can't make out but I'm sure you shan't have it for one . 
You mean you won't sell ? gasped Keawe . 
No , SIR ! cried the boatswain . 
But I'll give you a drink of the rum , if you like . 
I tell you , said Keawe , the man who has that bottle goes to hell . 
I reckon I'm going anyway , returned the sailor and this bottle's the best thing to go with I've struck yet . 
No , sir ! he cried again , this is my bottle now , and you can go and fish for another . 
Can this be true ? Keawe cried . 
For your own sake , I beseech you , sell it me ! I don't value any of your talk , replied the boatswain . 
You thought I was a flat now you see I'm not and there's an end . 
If you won't have a swallow of the rum , I'll have one myself . 
Here's your health , and good night to you ! So off he went down the avenue towards town , and there goes the bottle out of the story . 
KEOLA was married with Lehua , daughter of Kalamake , the wise man of Molokai , and he kept his dwelling with the father of his wife . 
For this reason no man was more consulted in all the Kingdom of Hawaii . 
Prudent people bought , and sold , and married , and laid out their lives by his counsels and the King had him twice to Kona to seek the treasures of Kamehameha . 
It was rumoured that he had the art or the gift of the old heroes . 
This Kalamake was a strange man to see . 
Of all these doings of his father in law , Keola knew a little by the common repute , a little more he suspected , and the rest he ignored . 
But there was one thing troubled him . 
Kalamake was a man that spared for nothing , whether to eat or to drink , or to wear and for all he paid in bright new dollars . 
Bright as Kalamake's dollars , was another saying in the Eight Isles . 
Yet he neither sold , nor planted , nor took hire only now and then from his sorceries and there was no source conceivable for so much silver coin . 
It chanced one day Keola's wife was gone upon a visit to Kaunakakai , on the lee side of the island , and the men were forth at the sea fishing . 
But Keola was an idle dog , and he lay in the verandah and watched the surf beat on the shore and the birds fly about the cliff . 
It was a chief thought with him always the thought of the bright dollars . 
But this day of all days he made sure in his heart of some discovery . 
While he was so thinking , there was his father in law behind him , looking vexed . 
Is that the steamer ? he asked . 
She has but to call at Pelekunu , and then she will be here . 
There is no help for it then , returned Kalamake , and I must take you in my confidence , Keola , for the lack of anyone better . 
Come here within the house . 
Kalamake made Keola close the shutters of the windows , while he himself locked all the doors and set open the lid of the desk . 
What I am about , said he , is a thing beyond wonder . 
The men of old were wise they wrought marvels , and this among the rest but that was at night , in the dark , under the fit stars and in the desert . 
The same will I do here in my own house and under the plain eye of day . 
And then he and Keola put on the necklaces and took their stand upon the opposite corners of the mat . 
The time comes , said the warlock be not afraid . 
With that he set flame to the herbs , and began to mutter and wave the branch of palm . 
And suddenly , to the mat on which they were standing came a snatch or twitch , that seemed to be more swift than lightning . 
In the same wink the room was gone and the house , the breath all beaten from Keola's body . 
What was this ? cried Keola , who came to himself the first , because he was the younger . 
The pang of it was like death . 
It matters not , panted Kalamake . 
And , in the name of God , where are we ? cried Keola . 
That is not the question , replied the sorcerer . 
Being here , we have matter in our hands , and that we must attend to . 
We must be home again before the steamer comes it would seem strange if we had disappeared . 
And he sat on the sand and panted . 
I will come here again , when it is warm , to sleep . 
And he thought , How warm it has grown suddenly ! For it was winter in Hawaii , and the day had been chill . 
In the border of the grove , where it met the beach , the herb was growing , but the tree further back . 
Now , as Keola went toward the tree , he was aware of a young woman who had nothing on her body but a belt of leaves . 
Well ! thought Keola , they are not very particular about their dress in this part of the country . 
And he paused , supposing she would observe him and escape and seeing that she still looked before her , stood and hummed aloud . 
Up she leaped at the sound . 
Her face was ashen she looked this way and that , and her mouth gaped with the terror of her soul . 
But it was a strange thing that her eyes did not rest upon Keola . 
Good day , said he . 
You need not be so frightened I will not eat you . 
And he had scarce opened his mouth before the young woman fled into the bush . 
These are strange manners , thought Keola . 
And , not thinking what he did , ran after her . 
And presently he saw more people running men , women and children , one with another , all running and crying like people at a fire . 
And with that he began to grow afraid himself , and returned to Kalamake bringing the leaves . 
Him he told what he had seen . 
You must pay no heed , said Kalamake . 
All this is like a dream and shadows . 
All will disappear and be forgotten . 
It seemed none saw me , said Keola . 
And none did , replied the sorcerer . 
We walk here in the broad sun invisible by reason of these charms . 
Yet they hear us and therefore it is well to speak softly , as I do . 
With that he made a circle round the mat with stones , and in the midst he set the leaves . 
It will be your part , said he , to keep the leaves alight , and feed the fire slowly . 
I must do my errand and before the ashes blacken , the same power that brought us carries us away . 
Be ready now with the match and do you call me in good time lest the flames burn out and I be left . 
As soon as the leaves caught , the sorcerer leaped like a deer out of the circle , and began to race along the beach like a hound that has been bathing . 
As he ran , he kept stooping to snatch shells and it seemed to Keola that they glittered as he took them . 
The leaves blazed with a clear flame that consumed them swiftly and presently Keola had but a handful left , and the sorcerer was far off , running and stopping . 
Back ! The leaves are near done . 
At that Kalamake turned , and if he had run before , now he flew . 
But fast as he ran , the leaves burned faster . 
The flame was ready to expire when , with a great leap , he bounded on the mat . 
Keola ran to the shutters and there was the steamer tossing in the swell close in . 
The same night Kalamake took his son in law apart , and gave him five dollars in his hand . 
you will think you slept this afternoon on the verandah , and dreamed as you were sleeping . 
I am a man of few words , and I have for my helpers people of short memories . 
Never a word more said Kalamake , nor referred again to that affair . 
But it ran all the while in Keola's head if he were lazy before , he would now do nothing . 
Why should I work , thought he , when I have a father in law who makes dollars of sea shells ? Presently his share was spent . 
He spent it all upon fine clothes . 
And then he was sorry For , thought he , I had done better to have bought a concertina , with which I might have entertained myself all day long . 
And then he began to grow vexed with Kalamake . 
This man has the soul of a dog , thought he . 
With that he spoke to his wife Lehua , and complained of her father's manners . 
I would let my father be , said Lehua . 
He is a dangerous man to cross . 
I care that for him ! cried Keola and snapped his fingers . 
I have him by the nose . 
I can make him do what I please . 
And he told Lehua the story . 
But she shook her head . 
You may do what you like , said she but as sure as you thwart my father , you will be no more heard of . 
Remember Kamau , and how he wasted to a thread , so that his wife lifted him with one hand . 
Keola , you are a baby in my father's hands he will take you with his thumb and finger and eat you like a shrimp . 
Now Keola was truly afraid of Kalamake , but he was vain too and these words of his wife's incensed him . 
Very well , said he , if that is what you think of me , I will show how much you are deceived . 
And he went straight to where his father in law was sitting in the parlour . 
Kalamake , said he , I want a concertina . 
Do you , indeed ? said Kalamake . 
Yes , said he , and I may as well tell you plainly , I mean to have it . 
A man who picks up dollars on the beach can certainly afford a concertina . 
I had no idea you had so much spirit , replied the sorcerer . 
I thought you were a timid , useless lad , and I cannot describe how much pleased I am to find I was mistaken . 
Now I begin to think I may have found an assistant and successor in my difficult business . 
A concertina ? You shall have the best in Honolulu . 
And to night , as soon as it is dark , you and I will go and find the money . 
Shall we return to the beach ? asked Keola . 
No , no ! replied Kalamake you must begin to learn more of my secrets . 
Last time I taught you to pick shells this time I shall teach you to catch fish . 
Are you strong enough to launch Pili's boat ? I think I am , returned Keola . 
But why should we not take your own , which is afloat already ? I have a reason which you will understand thoroughly before to morrow , said Kalamake . 
Pili's boat is the better suited for my purpose . 
Honey is not more sweet than was the voice of Kalamake , and Keola could scarce contain his satisfaction . 
I might have had my concertina weeks ago , thought he , and there is nothing needed in this world but a little courage . 
Presently after he spied Lehua weeping , and was half in a mind to tell her all was well . 
But no , thinks he I shall wait till I can show her the concertina we shall see what the chit will do then . 
Perhaps she will understand in the future that her husband is a man of some intelligence . 
As soon as it was dark father and son in law launched Pili's boat and set the sail . 
There was a great sea , and it blew strong from the leeward but the boat was swift and light and dry , and skimmed the waves . 
This part of the sea is called the Sea of the Dead . 
It is in this place extraordinarily deep , and the floor is all covered with the bones of men , and in the holes of this part gods and goblins keep their habitation . 
Presently he is spent and goes down , and his bones are scattered with the rest , and the gods devour his spirit . 
Fear came on Keola at the words , and he looked , and by the light of the stars and the lantern , the warlock seemed to change . 
What ails you ? cried Keola , quick and sharp . 
It is not I who am ailing , said the wizard but there is one here very sick . 
At that sight Keola screamed and covered his face . 
But Kalamake held up the lantern . 
With that he threw his legs over the side . 
And the pieces of the boat the sorcerer crushed in the hollow of his hand and flung miles away into the night . 
Since first the islands were fished out of the sea , there was never a man so terrified as this Keola . 
He swam indeed , but he swam as puppies swim when they are cast in to drown , and knew not wherefore . 
He thought , too , of the concertina , and shame took hold upon him and of the dead men's bones , and fear shook him . 
Of a sudden he was aware of something dark against the stars that tossed , and a light below , and a brightness of the cloven sea and he heard speech of men . 
He cried out aloud and a voice answered and in a twinkling the bows of a ship hung above him on a wave like a thing balanced , and swooped down . 
He caught with his two hands in the chains of her , and the next moment was buried in the rushing seas , and the next hauled on board by seamen . 
he vowed he had seen none . 
It was no use talking . 
Keola durst not stay in the Eight Islands . 
So he did what seemed the most prudent , and shipped sailor in the place of the man who had been drowned . 
In some ways the ship was a good place . 
The captain also was a good man , and the crew no worse than other whites . 
And what was the worst of all , whenever Keola found a chance to sleep , there was the mate awake and stirring him up with a rope's end . 
Keola saw it would never do and he made up his mind to run away . 
They were about a month out from Honolulu when they made the land . 
The captain and the mate looked at it with the night glass , and named the name of it , and talked of it , beside the wheel where Keola was steering . 
It seemed it was an isle where no traders came . 
By the captain's way , it was an isle besides where no man dwelt but the mate thought otherwise . 
Keep her romping full , don't I tell you ! he cried to Keola , who was listening so hard that he forgot to steer . 
And so the captain and mate lay down on the house together , and Keola was left to himself . 
This island will do very well for me , he thought if no traders deal there , the mate will never come . 
And as for Kalamake , it is not possible he can ever get as far as this . 
With that he kept edging the schooner nearer in . 
So Keola edged her up little by little , and kept all drawing . 
And presently the land was close on board , and the sound of the sea on the sides of it grew loud . 
With that , the mate sat up suddenly upon the house . 
What are you doing ? he roars . 
You'll have the ship ashore ! And he made one bound for Keola , and Keola made another clean over the rail and plump into the starry sea . 
When he came up again , the schooner had payed off on her true course , and the mate stood by the wheel himself , and Keola heard him cursing . 
The sea was smooth under the lee of the island it was warm besides , and Keola had his sailor's knife , so he had no fear of sharks . 
And he was amazed , because this was a kind of island he had never heard of . 
The time of Keola in that place was in two periods the period when he was alone , and the period when he was there with the tribe . 
At first he sought everywhere and found no man only some houses standing in a hamlet , and the marks of fires . 
But the ashes of the fires were cold and the rains had washed them away and the winds had blown , and some of the huts were overthrown . 
The days were long to him , and the nights terrifying . 
Many a time he thought in his heart he would have been better in the bottom of the sea , his bones rolling there with the others . 
And to the outer slide he went once only , and he looked but the once at the beach of the ocean , and came away shaking . 
For the look of it , with its bright sand , and strewn shells , and strong sun and surf , went sore against his inclination . 
It cannot be , he thought , and yet it is very like . 
And how do I know ? These white men , although they pretend to know where they are sailing , must take their chance like other people . 
So after that he was prudent , and kept to the land side . 
It was perhaps a month later , when the people of the place arrived the fill of six great boats . 
And now Keola had three periods . 
First he had a period of being very sad , and then he had a period when he was pretty merry . 
Last of all came the third , when he was the most terrified man in the four oceans . 
The cause of the first period was the girl he had to wife . 
But about his wife there was no mistake conceivable , for she was the same girl that ran from him crying in the wood . 
It was at this period when he kept the most close to the lagoon side , and as far as he dared , abode in the cover of his hut . 
The cause of the second period was talk he heard from his wife and the chief islanders . 
But he put many questions and learned much . 
The island where he was was called the Isle of Voices it belonged to the tribe , but they made their home upon another , three hours' sail to the southward . 
There they lived and had their permanent houses , and it was a rich island , where were eggs and chickens and pigs , and ships came trading with rum and tobacco . 
It was there the schooner had gone after Keola deserted there , too , the mate had died , like the fool of a white man as he was . 
and never be any way troubled and even on the seaside the devils did no harm if let alone . 
Only once a chief had cast a spear at one of the voices , and the same night he fell out of a cocoanut palm and was killed . 
Keola thought a good bit with himself . 
So he told the high chief he had once been in an isle that was pestered the same way , and the folk had found a means to cure that trouble . 
There was a tree growing in the bush there , says he , and it seems these devils came to get the leaves of it . 
So the people of the isle cut down the tree wherever it was found , and the devils came no more . 
They asked what kind of tree this was , and he showed them the tree of which Kalamake burned the leaves . 
They found it hard to believe , yet the idea tickled them . 
One day he came to the hut , and she lay on the ground lamenting . 
Why , said Keola , what is wrong with you now ? She declared it was nothing . 
The same night she woke him . 
The lamp burned very low , but he saw by her face she was in sorrow . 
Keola , she said , put your ear to my mouth that I may whisper , for no one must hear us . 
Two days before the boats begin to be got ready , go you to the sea side of the isle and lie in a thicket . 
We shall choose that place before hand , you and I and hide food and every night I shall come near by there singing . 
So when a night comes and you do not hear me , you shall know we are clean gone out of the island , and you may come forth again in safety . 
The soul of Keola died within him . 
What is this ? he cried . 
I cannot live among devils . 
I will not be left behind upon this isle . 
I am dying to leave it . 
You will never leave it alive , my poor Keola , said the girl for to tell you the truth , my people are eaters of men but this they keep secret . 
Oh , that is a fine place indeed ! The trader has barrels filled with flour , and a French warship once came in the lagoon and gave everybody wine and biscuit . 
Ah , my poor Keola , I wish I could take you there , for great is my love to you , and it is the finest place in the seas except Papeete . 
So now Keola was the most terrified man in the four oceans . 
He had heard tell of eaters of men in the south islands , and the thing had always been a fear to him and here it was knocking at his door . 
So he lay on his bed and railed upon his destiny and the flesh curdled on his bones . 
The next day the people of the tribe were very civil , as their way was . 
They were elegant speakers , and they made beautiful poetry , and jested at meals , so that a missionary must have died laughing . 
The next day it was the same , and then his wife followed him . 
Keola , she said , if you do not eat , I tell you plainly you will be killed and cooked to morrow . 
Some of the old chiefs are murmuring already . 
They think you are fallen sick and must lose flesh . 
With that Keola got to his feet , and anger burned in him . 
It is little I care one way or the other , said he . 
I am between the devil and the deep sea . 
Since die I must , let me die the quickest way and since I must be eaten at the best of it , let me rather be eaten by hobgoblins than by men . 
Farewell , said he , and he left her standing , and walked to the sea side of that island . 
All tongues of the earth were spoken there the French , the Dutch , the Russian , the Tamil , the Chinese . 
Whatever land knew sorcery , there were some of its people whispering in Keola's ear . 
That beach was thick as a cried fair , yet no man seen and as he walked he saw the shells vanish before him , and no man to pick them up . 
I think the devil would have been afraid to be alone in such a company but Keola was past fear and courted death . 
When the fires sprang up , he charged for them like a bull . 
Bodiless voices called to and fro unseen hands poured sand upon the flames and they were gone from the beach before he reached them . 
It is plain Kalamake is not here , he thought , or I must have been killed long since . 
With that he sat him down in the margin of the wood , for he was tired , and put his chin upon his hands . 
The business before his eyes continued the beach babbled with voices , and the fires sprang up and sank , and the shells vanished and were renewed again even while he looked . 
It was a by day when I was here before , he thought , for it was nothing to this . 
And at last , he knew not very well how or when , sleep feel on Keola , and he forgot the island and all his sorrows . 
Early the next day , before the sun was yet up , a bustle woke him . 
He awoke in fear , for he thought the tribe had caught him napping but it was no such matter . 
What is afoot now ? thinks Keola . 
It is not me they are angry at , thought Keola , for they pass me close . 
A little nearer , and there began to mingle with the outcry the crash of many axes . 
Desire of strange things swept him on . 
He posted with the voices , crossed the beach , and came into the borders of the wood , and stood astonished . 
One tree had fallen , others were part hewed away . 
There was the tribe clustered . 
They were back to back , and bodies lay , and blood flowed among their feet . 
The hue of fear was on all their faces their voices went up to heaven shrill as a weasel's cry . 
For awhile Keola looked upon this prodigy like one that dreams , and then fear took him by the midst as sharp as death , that he should behold such doings . 
Even in that same flash the high chief of the clan espied him standing , and pointed and called out his name . 
Thereat the whole tribe saw him also , and their eyes flashed , and their teeth clashed . 
I am too long here , thought Keola , and ran further out of the wood and down the beach , not caring whither . 
Keola ! said , a voice close by upon the empty sand . 
Lehua ! is that you ? he cried , and gasped , and looked in vain for her but by the eyesight he was stark alone . 
I saw you pass before , the voice answered but you would not hear me . 
Quick ! get the leaves and the herbs , and let us free . 
You are there with the mat ? he asked . 
Here , at your side said she . 
And he felt her arms about him . 
And all the time of the burning , Keola stood there and listened , and shook , and watched how the unseen hands of Lehua poured the leaves . 
She poured them fast , and the flame burned high , and scorched Keola's hands and she speeded and blew the burning with her breath . 
The last leaf was eaten , the flame fell , and the shock followed , and there were Keola and Lehua in the room at home . 
But there was another matter not so clear , and Lehua and Keola talked of it all night and were troubled . 
There was Kalamake left upon the isle . 
They spoke of his gift of swelling , and whether he could wade that distance in the seas . 
But Keola knew by this time where that island was and that is to say , in the Low or Dangerous Archipelago . 
Still , it would not do to make too sure of a warlock like Kalamake , and they determined at last to take counsel of a white missionary . 
So the first one that came by , Keola told him everything . 
And as for this extraordinary rigmarole , you cannot do better than keep it to yourselves . 
Keola and Lehua took his advice , and gave many dollars to the lepers and the fund . 
And no doubt the advice must have been good , for from that day to this , Kalamake has never more been heard of . 
