The remains of this extensive wood are still to be seen at the noble seats of Wentworth , of Warncliffe Park , and around Rotherham . 
A circumstance which greatly tended to enhance the tyranny of the nobility , and the sufferings of the inferior classes , arose from the consequences of the Conquest by Duke William of Normandy . 
The sun was setting upon one of the rich grassy glades of that forest , which we have mentioned in the beginning of the chapter . 
The eldest of these men had a stern , savage , and wild aspect . 
On this singular gorget was engraved , in Saxon characters , an inscription of the following purport Gurth , the son of Beowulph , is the born thrall of Cedric of Rotherwood . 
His jacket had been stained of a bright purple hue , upon which there had been some attempt to paint grotesque ornaments in different colours . 
In place of these , he was equipped with a sword of lath , resembling that with which Harlequin operates his wonders upon the modern stage . 
The outward appearance of these two men formed scarce a stronger contrast than their look and demeanour . 
The curse of St Withold upon them and upon me ! '' said Gurth if the two legged wolf snap not up some of them ere nightfall , I am no true man . 
'' Why , how call you those grunting brutes running about on their four legs ? '' demanded Wamba . 
Swine , fool , swine , '' said the herd , every fool knows that . 
Mynheer Calf , too , becomes Monsieur de Veau in the like manner he is Saxon when he requires tendance , and takes a Norman name when he becomes matter of enjoyment . 
'' Gurth , '' said the Jester , I know thou thinkest me a fool , or thou wouldst not be so rash in putting thy head into my mouth . 
Nay , but I must see the riders , '' answered Wamba perhaps they are come from Fairy land with a message from King Oberon . 
Thou canst play the rational if thou wilt credit me for once , and let us home ere the storm begins to rage , for the night will be fearful . 
This second Eum ae us strode hastily down the forest glade , driving before him , with the assistance of Fangs , the whole herd of his inharmonious charge . 
The horsemen , therefore , soon overtook them on the road . 
Their numbers amounted to ten men , of whom the two who rode foremost seemed to be persons of considerable importance , and the others their attendants . 
It was not difficult to ascertain the condition and character of one of these personages . 
He was obviously an ecclesiastic of high rank his dress was that of a Cistercian Monk , but composed of materials much finer than those which the rule of that order admitted . 
His mantle and hood were of the best Flanders cloth , and fell in ample , and not ungraceful folds , around a handsome , though somewhat corpulent person . 
His countenance bore as little the marks of self denial , as his habit indicated contempt of worldly splendour . 
His features might have been called good , had there not lurked under the pent house of his eye , that sly epicurean twinkle which indicates the cautious voluptuary . 
In his seat he had nothing of the awkwardness of the convent , but displayed the easy and habitual grace of a well trained horseman . 
His head was covered with a scarlet cap , faced with fur of that kind which the French call mortier , from its resemblance to the shape of an inverted mortar . 
His countenance was therefore fully displayed , and its expression was calculated to impress a degree of awe , if not of fear , upon strangers . 
On the right shoulder of the mantle there was cut , in white cloth , a cross of a peculiar form . 
In his girdle he wore a long and double edged dagger , which was the only offensive weapon about his person . 
He also carried his small triangular shield , broad enough at the top to protect the breast , and from thence diminishing to a point . 
It was covered with a scarlet cloth , which prevented the device from being seen . 
They were armed with crooked sabres , having the hilt and baldric inlaid with gold , and matched with Turkish daggers of yet more costly workmanship . 
The steeds of these attendants were in appearance as foreign as their riders . 
With the old , be had another part to play , which , when needful , he could sustain with great decorum . 
Even the common people , the severest critics of the conduct of their betters , had commiseration with the follies of Prior Aymer . 
He was generous and charity , as it is well known , covereth a multitude of sins , in another sense than that in which it is said to do so in Scripture . 
Prior Aymer , therefore , and his character , were well known to our Saxon serfs , who made their rude obeisance , and received his benedicite , mes filz , in return . 
'' The Prior shook his head at both proposals . 
'' Tush , '' said the Abbot , thou canst tell us if thou wilt . 
'' I forgive thy wit , '' replied the Abbot , on condition thou wilt show me the way to Cedric's mansion . 
As their horses' hoofs died away , Gurth said to his companion , If they follow thy wise direction , the reverend fathers will hardly reach Rotherwood this night . 
'' No , '' said the Jester , grinning , but they may reach Sheffield if they have good luck , and that is as fit a place for them . 
I am not so bad a woodsman as to show the dog where the deer lies , if I have no mind he should chase him . 
But , like good servants let us hear and see , and say nothing . 
Ran it not so ? Prior , your collar is in danger I will wear it over my gorget in the lists of Ashby de la Zouche . 
Yet , brother , take my advice , and file your tongue to a little more courtesy than your habits of predominating over infidel captives and Eastern bondsmen have accustomed you . 
And be careful how you look on Rowena , whom he cherishes with the most jealous care an he take the least alarm in that quarter we are but lost men . 
Doubt not that we shall be strong enough to make good our quarters . 
He bid us turn , I think to the left . 
'' To the right , '' said Brian , to the best of my remembrance . 
'' To the left , certainly , the left I remember his pointing with his wooden sword . 
'' Ay , but he held his sword in his left hand , and so pointed across his body with it , '' said the Templar . 
Each maintained his opinion with sufficient obstinacy , as is usual in all such cases the attendants were appealed to , but they had not been near enough to hear Wamba's directions . 
'' This was no sooner done than the figure arose , exclaiming in good French , Whosoever thou art , it is discourteous in you to disturb my thoughts . 
'' We did but wish to ask you , '' said the Prior , the road to Rotherwood , the abode of Cedric the Saxon . 
'' Thou shalt have both thanks and reward , my friend , '' said the Prior , if thou wilt bring us to Cedric's in safety . 
Their conductor pursued an opposite road from that which Wamba had recommended , for the purpose of misleading them . 
Finding himself now at his ease and near shelter , his curiosity began to awake , and he demanded of the guide who and what he was . 
A Palmer , just returned from the Holy Land , '' was the answer . 
You had better have tarried there to fight for the recovery of the Holy Sepulchre , '' said the Templar . 
Rotherwood was not , however , without defences no habitation , in that disturbed period , could have been so , without the risk of being plundered and burnt before the next morning . 
A deep fosse , or ditch , was drawn round the whole building , and filled with water from a neighbouring stream . 
A double stockade , or palisade , composed of pointed beams , which the adjacent forest supplied , defended the outer and inner bank of the trench . 
There was an entrance from the west through the outer stockade , which communicated by a drawbridge , with a similar opening in the interior defences . 
Some precautions had been taken to place those entrances under the protection of projecting angles , by which they might be flanked in case of need by archers or slingers . 
Before this entrance the Templar wound his horn loudly for the rain , which had long threatened , began now to descend with great violence . 
from the bleak coast that hears The German Ocean roar , deep blooming , strong , And yellow hair'd , the blue eyed Saxon came . 
The constant vapour which this occasioned , had polished the rafters and beams of the low browed hall , by encrusting them with a black varnish of soot . 
The other appointments of the mansion partook of the rude simplicity of the Saxon period , which Cedric piqued himself upon maintaining . 
The floor was composed of earth mixed with lime , trodden into a hard substance , such as is often employed in flooring our modern barns . 
'' To each of these chairs was added a footstool , curiously carved and inlaid with ivory , which mark of distinction was peculiar to them . 
It appeared , indeed , from the countenance of this proprietor , that he was of a frank , but hasty and choleric temper . 
His feet had sandals of the same fashion with the peasants , but of finer materials , and secured in the front with golden clasps . 
He had bracelets of gold upon his arms , and a broad collar of the same precious metal around his neck . 
Two or three servants of a superior order stood behind their master upon the dais the rest occupied the lower part of the hall . 
Even he was repelled by the stem command , Down , Balder , down ! I am not in the humour for foolery . 
'' In fact , Cedric , as we have observed , was in no very placid state of mind . 
I shall hear , I guess , that my property has been swept off to save from starving the hungry banditti , whom they cannot support but by theft and robbery . 
Ay ? why this is better and better ! he is carried off too , the Saxon fool , to serve the Norman lord . 
Fools are we all indeed that serve them , and fitter subjects for their scorn and laughter , than if we were born with but half our wits . 
Replacing his javelin , he resumed his seat , bent his looks downward , and appeared to be absorbed in melancholy reflection . 
It cost some exercise of the white truncheon , well seconded by the exertions of the domestics , to silence this canine clamour . 
To the gate , knaves ! '' said the Saxon , hastily , as soon as the tumult was so much appeased that the dependants could hear his voice . 
See what tidings that horn tells us of to announce , I ween , some hership and robbery which has been done Pillage . 
Look after their horses and mules , and see their train lack nothing . 
Begone ! see them carefully tended let them not say in their pride , the Saxon churl has shown at once his poverty and his avarice . 
'' The major domo departed with several attendants , to execute his master's commands . 
How named ye the Templar ? '' Brian de Bois Guilbert . 
So say the few warriors who have returned from Palestine . 
Well it is but for one night he shall be welcome too . 
L. T. love good wines and good measure . 
Elgitha , let thy Lady Rowena , know we shall not this night expect her in the hall , unless such be her especial pleasure . 
'' But it will be her especial pleasure , '' answered Elgitha , with great readiness , for she is ever desirous to hear the latest news from Palestine . 
'' Cedric darted at the forward damsel a glance of hasty resentment but Rowena , and whatever belonged to her , were privileged and secure from his anger . 
He only replied , Silence , maiden thy tongue outruns thy discretion . 
Say my message to thy mistress , and let her do her pleasure . 
Here , at least , the descendant of Alfred still reigns a princess . 
'' Elgitha left the apartment . 
Disposed apart , Ulysses shares the treat A trivet table and ignobler seat , The Prince assigns Odyssey , Book . 
The Prior Aymer had taken the opportunity afforded him , of changing his riding robe for one of yet more costly materials , over which he wore a cope curiously embroidered . 
He had exchanged his shirt of mail for an under tunic of dark purple silk , garnished with furs , over which flowed his long robe of spotless white , in ample folds . 
The eight pointed cross of his order was cut on the shoulder of his mantle in black velvet . 
The high cap no longer invested his brows , which were only shaded by short and thick curled hair of a raven blackness , corresponding to his unusually swart complexion . 
Nothing could be more gracefully majestic than his step and manner , had they not been marked by a predominant air of haughtiness , easily acquired by the exercise of unresisted authority . 
A cloak or mantle of coarse black serge , enveloped his whole body . 
It was in shape something like the cloak of a modern hussar , having similar flaps for covering the arms , and was called a Sclaveyn , or Sclavonian . 
But my steward has expounded to you the cause of my seeming discourtesy . 
'' Vows , '' said the Abbot , must be unloosed , worthy Franklin , or permit me rather to say , worthy Thane , though the title is antiquated . 
While the attendants hastened to obey Cedric's commands , his eye distinguished Gurth the swineherd , who , with his companion Wamba , had just entered the hall . 
Send these loitering knaves up hither , '' said the Saxon , impatiently . 
I tell thee , shackles and the prison house shall punish the next offence of this kind . 
'' How , sir ? '' said his master you shall to the porter's lodge , and taste of the discipline there , if you give your foolery such license . 
'' Then hang up Fangs , '' said Cedric , turning hastily towards the swineherd , if the fault is his , and get thee another dog . 
'' And who dared to lame an animal which belonged to my bondsman ? '' said the Saxon , kindling in wrath . 
Marry , that did old Hubert , '' said Wamba , Sir Philip de Malvoisin's keeper of the chase . 
He caught Fangs strolling in the forest , and said he chased the deer contrary to his master's right , as warden of the walk . 
'' The foul fiend take Malvoisin , '' answered the Saxon , and his keeper both ! I will teach them that the wood was disforested in terms of the great Forest Charter . 
I crave your pardon , my worthy guests . 
I am beset here with neighbours that match your infidels , Sir Knight , in Holy Land . 
But your homely fare is before you feed , and let welcome make amends for hard fare . 
'' The feast , however , which was spread upon the board , needed no apologies from the lord of the mansion . 
Beside each person of rank was placed a goblet of silver the lower board was accommodated with large drinking horns . 
When the repast was about to commence , the major domo , or steward , suddenly raising his wand , said aloud , Forbear ! Place for the Lady Rowena . 
'' A side door at the upper end of the hall now opened behind the banquet table , and Rowena , followed by four female attendants , entered the apartment . 
All stood up to receive her and , replying to their courtesy by a mute gesture of salutation , she moved gracefully forward to assume her place at the board . 
Ere she had time to do so , the Templar whispered to the Prior , I shall wear no collar of gold of yours at the tournament . 
The Chian wine is your own . 
'' Said I not so ? '' answered the Prior but check your raptures , the Franklin observes you . 
Formed in the best proportions of her sex , Rowena was tall in stature , yet not so much so as to attract observation on account of superior height . 
Her complexion was exquisitely fair , but the noble cast of her head and features prevented the insipidity which sometimes attaches to fair beauties . 
Her profuse hair , of a colour betwixt brown and flaxen , was arranged in a fanciful and graceful manner in numerous ringlets , to form which art had probably aided nature . 
These locks were braided with gems , and , being worn at full length , intimated the noble birth and free born condition of the maiden . 
A golden chain , to which was attached a small reliquary of the same metal , hung round her neck . 
She wore bracelets on her arms , which were bare . 
This robe was crimson , and manufactured out of the very finest wool . 
Cedric saw the motion and its cause . 
Sir Templar , '' said he , the cheeks of our Saxon maidens have seen too little of the sun to enable them to bear the fixed glance of a crusader . 
'' The Lady Rowena , '' said the Prior , has punished us all , in chastising the boldness of my friend . 
Let me hope she will be less cruel to the splendid train which are to meet at the tournament . 
'' Our going thither , '' said Cedric , is uncertain . 
I love not these vanities , which were unknown to my fathers when England was free . 
I drink to you , Sir Prior , in this cup of wine , which I trust your taste will approve , and I thank you for your courtesy . 
'' Nay , '' said the Priest , laughing , it is only in our abbey that we confine ourselves to the lac dulce or the lac acidum either . 
Conversing with , the world , we use the world's fashions , and therefore I answer your pledge in this honest wine , and leave the weaker liquor to my lay brother . 
By my faith , I could pardon the unhappy Vortigern , had he half the cause that we now witness , for making shipwreck of his honour and his kingdom . 
'' I have little of importance to say , lady , '' answered Sir Brian de Bois Guilbert , excepting the confirmed tidings of a truce with Saladin . 
'' How , sirrah ! '' said Cedric , misdirect travellers ? We must have you whipt you are at least as much rogue as fool . 
'' I pray thee , uncle , '' answered the Jester , let my folly , for once , protect my roguery . 
I did but make a mistake between my right hand and my left and he might have pardoned a greater , who took a fool for his counsellor and guide . 
Let his wants be ministered to with all care look to it , Oswald . 
'' And the steward left the banqueting hall to see the commands of his patron obeyed . 
'' Peace , my worthy guests , '' said Cedric my hospitality must not be bounded by your dislikes . 
If Heaven bore with the whole nation of stiff necked unbelievers for more years than a layman can number , we may endure the presence of one Jew for a few hours . 
But I constrain no man to converse or to feed with him . 
Let him have a board and a morsel apart , unless , '' he said smiling , these turban'd strangers will admit his society . 
'' Sir Franklin , '' answered the Templar , my Saracen slaves are true Moslems , and scorn as much as any Christian to hold intercourse with a Jew . 
'' Now , in faith , '' said Wamba , I cannot see that the worshippers of Mahound and Termagaunt have so greatly the advantage over the people once chosen of Heaven . 
'' He shall sit with thee , Wamba , '' said Cedric the fool and the knave will be well met . 
'' The fool , '' answered Wamba , raising the relics of a gammon of bacon , will take care to erect a bulwark against the knave . 
'' Hush , '' said Cedric , for here he comes . 
The Jew's dress , which appeared to have suffered considerably from the storm , was a plain russet cloak of many folds , covering a dark purple tunic . 
He had large boots lined with fur , and a belt around his waist , which sustained a small knife , together with a case for writing materials , but no weapon . 
The reception of this person in the ball of Cedric the Saxon , was such as might have satisfied the most prejudiced enemy of the tribes of Israel . 
Probably the same motives which induced Cedric to open his hall to this son of a rejected people , would have made him insist on his attendants receiving Isaac with more courtesy . 
Surely no tongue is so rich in the various phrases which the field sports demand , or furnishes means to the experienced woodman so well to express his jovial art . 
'' There was no language which the Normans more formally separated from that of common life than the terms of the chase . 
The reader may consult Dame Juliana Berners' book on the subject . 
The origin of this science was imputed to the celebrated Sir Tristrem , famous for his tragic intrigue with the beautiful Ysolte . 
As the Normans reserved the amusement of hunting strictly to themselves , the terms of this formal jargon were all taken from the French language . 
To the memory of the brave who fought there ! Pledge me , my guests . 
'' He drank deep , and went on with increasing warmth . 
'' Second to none , '' said the Pilgrim , who had stood near enough to hear , and had listened to this conversation with marked impatience . 
All turned toward the spot from whence this unexpected asseveration was heard . 
I say , '' repeated the Pilgrim in a firm and strong voice , that the English chivalry were second to none who ever drew sword in defence of the Holy Land . 
I say that , on that day , each knight ran three courses , and cast to the ground three antagonists . 
I add , that seven of these assailants were Knights of the Temple and Sir Brian de Bois Guilbert well knows the truth of what I tell you . 
'' It is impossible for language to describe the bitter scowl of rage which rendered yet darker the swarthy countenance of the Templar . 
'' That will I do blithely , '' replied the Pilgrim , and without guerdon my oath , for a time , prohibits me from touching gold . 
'' I will wear the bracelet for you , if you will , friend Palmer , '' said Wamba . 
The first in honour as in arms , in renown as in place , '' said the Pilgrim , was the brave Richard , King of England . 
'' I forgive him , '' said Cedric I forgive him his descent from the tyrant Duke William . 
'' The Earl of Leicester was the second , '' continued the Pilgrim Sir Thomas Multon of Gilsland was the third . 
'' Of Saxon descent , he at least , '' said Cedric , with exultation . 
Sir Foulk Doilly the fourth , '' proceeded the Pilgrim . 
And who was the fifth ? '' he demanded . 
The fifth was Sir Edwin Turneham . 
'' Sir Palmer , '' said Sir Brian de Bois Guilbert scornfully , this assumed forgetfulness , after so much has been remembered , comes too late to serve your purpose . 
'' Your challenge would soon be answered , '' replied the Palmer , were your antagonist near you . 
As the matter is , disturb not the peaceful hall with vaunts of the issue of the conflict , which you well know cannot take place . 
If Ivanhoe ever returns from Palestine , I will be his surety that he meets you . 
I affirm he will meet fairly every honourable challenge . 
Could my weak warrant add security to the inestimable pledge of this holy pilgrim , I would pledge name and fame that Ivanhoe gives this proud knight the meeting he desires . 
'' A crowd of conflicting emotions seemed to have occupied Cedric , and kept him silent during this discussion . 
But when Rowena spoke , the sound of her voice seemed to startle him from his silence . 
But , by my faith , a Saxon boy of twelve , in my time , would not so soon have relinquished his goblet . 
'' The Prior had his own reasons , however , for persevering in the course of temperance which he had adopted . 
He was not only a professional peacemaker , but from practice a hater of all feuds and brawls . 
It was not altogether from a love to his neighbour , or to himself , or from a mixture of both . 
L. T. have imposed upon me Father Jacob be my speed ! I am an impoverished wretch the very gaberdine I wear is borrowed from Reuben of Tadcaster . 
CHAPTER VI To buy his favour I extend this friendship If he will take it , so if not , adieu And , for my love , I pray you wrong me not . 
Wamba presently appeared to urge the same request , observing that a cup after midnight was worth three after curfew . 
That vow , '' said Wamba to the cupbearer , would scarce suit a serving man . 
'' The cupbearer shrugged up his shoulders in displeasure . 
Anwold , '' said he to the torchbearer , carry the Pilgrim to the southern cell . 
I give you good night , '' he added , Sir Palmer , with small thanks for short courtesy . 
'' Good night , and Our Lady's benison , '' said the Palmer , with composure and his guide moved forward . 
The bed was adorned with the same rich tapestry , and surrounded with curtains dyed with purple . 
The seats had also their stained coverings , and one , which was higher than the rest , was accommodated with a footstool of ivory , curiously carved . 
No fewer than four silver candelabras , holding great waxen torches , served to illuminate this apartment . 
Yet let not modern beauty envy the magnificence of a Saxon princess . 
Magnificence there was , with some rude attempt at taste but of comfort there was little , and , being unknown , it was unmissed . 
The Pilgrim acknowledged her claim to it by a low genuflection . 
Rise , Palmer , '' said she graciously . 
The defender of the absent has a right to favourable reception from all who value truth , and honour manhood . 
'' She then said to her train , Retire , excepting only Elgitha I would speak with this holy Pilgrim . 
'' I know little of the Knight of Ivanhoe , '' answered the Palmer , with a troubled voice . 
I would I knew him better , since you , lady , are interested in his fate . 
Should Athelstane of Coningsburgh obtain the prize , Ivanhoe is like to hear evil tidings when he reaches England . 
'' He will , '' said the lady , I fear , find little in his native land to clear those clouds from his countenance . 
Thanks , good Pilgrim , for your information concerning the companion of my childhood . 
Maidens , '' she said , draw near offer the sleeping cup to this holy man , whom I will no longer detain from repose . 
'' One of the maidens presented a silver cup , containing a rich mixture of wine and spice , which Rowena barely put to her lips . 
It was then offered to the Palmer , who , after a low obeisance , tasted a few drops . 
Accept this alms , friend , '' continued the lady , offering a piece of gold , in acknowledgment of thy painful travail , and of the shrines thou hast visited . 
'' The Palmer received the boon with another low reverence , and followed Edwina out of the apartment . 
In which of these sleeps the Jew ? '' said the Pilgrim . 
The unbelieving dog , '' answered Anwold , kennels in the cell next your holiness . 
St Dunstan , how it must be scraped and cleansed ere it be again fit for a Christian ! '' And where sleeps Gurth the swineherd ? '' said the stranger . 
You might have occupied a more honourable place had you accepted of Oswald's invitation . 
'' It is as well as it is , '' said the Palmer the company , even of a Jew , can hardly spread contamination through an oaken partition . 
'' So saying , he entered the cabin allotted to him , and taking the torch from the domestic's hand , thanked him , and wished him good night . 
It consisted of a rude wooden stool , and still ruder hutch or bed frame , stuffed with clean straw , and accommodated with two or three sheepskins by way of bed clothes . 
The inmate was lying in troubled slumber upon a couch similar to that on which the Palmer himself had passed the night . 
There was a trouble on his brow amounting almost to agony . 
Fear nothing from me , Isaac , '' said the Palmer , I come as your friend . 
'' The God of Israel requite you , '' said the Jew , greatly relieved I dreamed But Father Abraham be praised , it was but a dream . 
'' It is impossible to describe the extremity of terror which seized upon the Jew at this information , and seemed at once to overpower his whole faculties . 
Leave this mansion instantly , while its inmates sleep sound after the last night's revel . 
'' As he spoke these last words , he raised himself , and grasped the Palmer's mantle with a look of the most earnest entreaty . 
The pilgrim extricated himself , as if there were contamination in the touch . 
Yet think not that I care for thy company , or propose myself advantage by it remain here if thou wilt Cedric the Saxon may protect thee . 
'' He led the way to the adjoining cell , which , as the reader is apprised , was occupied by Gurth the swineherd . 
Arise , Gurth , '' said the Pilgrim , arise quickly . 
Undo the postern gate , and let out the Jew and me . 
'' Nevertheless , '' said the Pilgrim , in a commanding tone , you will not , I think , refuse me that favour . 
'' So saying , he stooped over the bed of the recumbent swineherd , and whispered something in his ear in Saxon . 
Gurth started up as if electrified . 
The Pilgrim , raising his finger in an attitude as if to express caution , added , Gurth , beware thou are wont to be prudent . 
I say , undo the postern thou shalt know more anon . 
'' With hasty alacrity Gurth obeyed him , while and the Jew followed , both wondering at the sudden change in the swineherd's demeanour . 
My mule , my mule ! '' said the Jew , as soon as they stood without the postern . 
And do thou'' he whispered the rest in Gurth's ear . 
Willingly , most willingly shall it be done , '' said Gurth , and instantly departed to execute the commission . 
I wish I knew , '' said Wamba , when his comrade's back was turned , what you Palmers learn in the Holy Land . 
'' To say our orisons , fool , '' answered the Pilgrim , to repent our sins , and to mortify ourselves with fastings , vigils , and long prayers . 
'' Go to , '' said the Pilgrim , thou art but a Saxon fool . 
'' At this moment Gurth appeared on the opposite side of the moat with the mules . 
The Pilgrim mounted with more deliberation , reaching , as he departed , his hand to Gurth , who kissed it with the utmost possible veneration . 
The swineherd stood gazing after the travellers until they were lost under the boughs of the forest path , when he was disturbed from his reverie by the voice of Wamba . 
'' So saying , he turned back to the mansion , attended by the Jester . 
When the travellers had pushed on at a rapid rate through many devious paths , the Palmer at length broke silence . 
That large decayed oak , '' he said , marks the boundaries over which Front de B oe uf claims authority we are long since far from those of Malvoisin . 
There is now no fear of pursuit . 
'' Our road , '' said the Palmer , should here separate for it beseems not men of my character and thine to travel together longer than needs must be . 
Guide thee I can and , it may be , even in some sort defend thee since to protect a Jew against a Saracen , can scarce be accounted unworthy of a Christian . 
Therefore , Jew , I will see thee safe under some fitting escort . 
We are now not far from the town of Sheffield , where thou mayest easily find many of thy tribe with whom to take refuge . 
'' Be it so , '' said the Palmer at Sheffield then we part , and half an hour's riding will bring us in sight of that town . 
'' I have already said , '' answered the Pilgrim , that I desire no recompense . 
'' Stay , stay , '' said the Jew , laying hold of his garment something would I do more than this , something for thyself . 
God knows the Jew is poor yes , Isaac is the beggar of his tribe but forgive me should I guess what thou most lackest at this moment . 
'' If thou wert to guess truly , '' said the Palmer , it is what thou canst not supply , wert thou as wealthy as thou sayst thou art poor . 
As I say ? '' echoed the Jew O ! believe it , I say but the truth I am a plundered , indebted , distressed man . 
Thy wish even now is for a horse and armour . 
'' The Palmer started , and turned suddenly towards the Jew What fiend prompted that guess ? '' said he , hastily . 
No matter , '' said the Jew , smiling , so that it be a true one and , as I can guess thy want , so I can supply it . 
'' But consider , '' said the Palmer , my character , my dress , my vow . 
'' Blaspheme not , Jew , '' said the Pilgrim , sternly . 
Forgive me , '' said the Jew I spoke rashly . 
They glanced as you stooped over my bed in the morning . 
'' The Pilgrim could not forbear smiling . 
'' The Jew looked somewhat astounded at this possibility but collecting his courage , he replied hastily . 
No no no It is impossible I will not think so . 
The blessing of Our Father will be upon thee . 
Thy lance will be powerful as the rod of Moses . 
'' So saying , he was turning his mule's head away , when the Palmer , in his turn , took hold of his gaberdine . 
Nay , but Isaac , thou knowest not all the risk . 
The steed may be slain , the armour injured for I will spare neither horse nor man . 
Besides , those of thy tribe give nothing for nothing something there must be paid for their use . 
'' The Jew twisted himself in the saddle , like a man in a fit of the colic but his better feelings predominated over those which were most familiar to him . 
I care not , '' he said , I care not let me go . 
If there is damage , it will cost you nothing if there is usage money , Kirjath Jairam will forgive it for the sake of his kinsman Isaac . 
'' Gramercy for thy caution , '' said the Palmer , again smiling I will use thy courtesy frankly , and it will go hard with me but I will requite it . 
'' They parted , and took different roads for the town of Sheffield . 
The courser paw'd the ground with restless feet , And snorting foam'd and champ'd the golden bit . 
The smiths and armourers on palfreys ride , Files in their hands , and hammers at their side And nails for loosen'd spears , and thongs for shields provide . 
The yeomen guard the streets in seemly bands And clowns come crowding on , with cudgels in their hands . 
The condition of the English nation was at this time sufficiently miserable . 
King Richard was absent a prisoner , and in the power of the perfidious and cruel Duke of Austria . 
This usurpation , it is well known , he afterwards effected . 
Under the various burdens imposed by this unhappy state of affairs , the people of England suffered deeply for the present , and had yet more dreadful cause to fear for the future . 
Neither duty nor infirmity could keep youth or age from such exhibitions . 
The scene was singularly romantic . 
The form of the enclosure was an oblong square , save that the corners were considerably rounded off , in order to afford more convenience for the spectators . 
The cords of the tents were of the same colour . 
The central pavilion , as the This sort of masquerade is supposed to have occasioned the introduction of supporters into the science of heraldry . 
Ralph de Vipont , a knight of St John of Jerusalem , who had some ancient possessions at a place called Heather , near Ashby de la Zouche , occupied the fifth pavilion . 
From the entrance into the lists , a gently sloping passage , ten yards in breadth , led up to the platform on which the tents were pitched . 
It was strongly secured by a palisade on each side , as was the esplanade in front of the pavilions , and the whole was guarded by men at arms . 
Squires , pages , and yeomen in rich liveries , waited around this place of honour , which was designed for Prince John and his attendants . 
But who was to represent the Queen of Beauty and of Love on the present occasion no one was prepared to guess . 
Meanwhile , spectators of every description thronged forward to occupy their respective stations , and not without many quarrels concerning those which they were entitled to hold . 
It was of course amongst these that the most frequent disputes for precedence occurred . 
But Isaac , though we have seen him sufficiently timid on other occasions , knew well that at present he had nothing to fear . 
It was not in places of general resort , or where their equals were assembled , that any avaricious or malevolent noble durst offer him injury . 
Emboldened by these considerations , the Jew pursued his point , and jostled the Norman Christian , without respect either to his descent , quality , or religion . 
The complaints of the old man , however , excited the indignation of the bystanders . 
Among the latter was the Prior of Jorvaulx , in the most gallant trim which a dignitary of the church could venture to exhibit . 
The figure of Rebecca might indeed have compared with the proudest beauties of England , even though it had been judged by as shrewd a connoisseur as Prince John . 
Her form was exquisitely symmetrical , and was shown to advantage by a sort of Eastern dress , which she wore according to the fashion of the females of her nation . 
Her turban of yellow silk suited well with the darkness of her complexion . 
A diamond necklace , with pendants of inestimable value , were by this means also made more conspicuous . 
The wiser man thou , '' said John , with a peal of laughter , in which his gay followers obsequiously joined . 
But , daughter or wife , she should be preferred according to her beauty and thy merits . 
Who sits above there ? '' he continued , bending his eye on the gallery . 
Saxon churls , lolling at their lazy length ! out upon them ! let them sit close , and make room for my prince of usurers and his lovely daughter . 
I'll make the hinds know they must share the high places of the synagogue with those whom the synagogue properly belongs to . 
But with the blood of this ancient royal race , many of their infirmities had descended to Athelstane . 
It was to this person , such as we have described him , that the Prince addressed his imperious command to make place for Isaac and Rebecca . 
But the impatient John regarded it in no such light . 
The blood rushed into the countenance of Prince John . 
I always add my hollo , '' said the yeoman , when I see a good shot , or a gallant blow . 
'' Sayst thou ? '' answered the Prince then thou canst hit the white thyself , I'll warrant . 
'' A woodsman's mark , and at woodsman's distance , I can hit , '' answered the yeoman . 
And Wat Tyrrel's mark , at a hundred yards , '' said a voice from behind , but by whom uttered could not be discerned . 
This allusion to the fate of William Rufus , his Relative , at once incensed and alarmed Prince John . 
He satisfied himself , however , with commanding the men at arms , who surrounded the lists , to keep an eye on the braggart , pointing to the yeoman . 
Up , infidel dog when I command you , '' said Prince John , or I will have thy swarthy hide stript off , and tanned for horse furniture . 
'' Thus urged , the Jew began to ascend the steep and narrow steps which led up to the gallery . 
Let me see , '' said the Prince , who dare stop him , '' fixing his eye on Cedric , whose attitude intimated his intention to hurl the Jew down headlong . 
Who , and what art thou , noble champion ? '' said Prince John , still laughing . 
'' Knave upon fool were worse , '' answered the Jester , and Jew upon bacon worst of all . 
'' Gramercy ! good fellow , '' cried Prince John , thou pleasest me Here , Isaac , lend me a handful of byzants . 
CHAPTER VIII At this the challenger with fierce defy His trumpet sounds the challenged makes reply With clangour rings the field , resounds the vaulted sky . 
In the midst of Prince John's cavalcade , he suddenly stopt , and appealing to the Prior of Jorvaulx , declared the principal business of the day had been forgotten . 
For my part , I am liberal in my ideas , and I care not if I give my vote for the black eyed Rebecca . 
Besides , I swear by my patron saint , that she is far inferior to the lovely Saxon , Rowena . 
'' A murmur arose even among his own immediate attendants . 
This passes a jest , my lord , '' said De Bracy no knight here will lay lance in rest if such an insult is attempted . 
'' I entertained you , sir , '' said John , reining up his palfrey haughtily , for my follower , but not for my counsellor . 
It will add another grace to his triumph , and teach fair ladies to prize the love of valiant knights , who can exalt them to such distinction . 
'' If Brian de Bois Guilbert gain the prize , '' said the Prior , I will gage my rosary that I name the Sovereign of Love and Beauty . 
'' Bois Guilbert , '' answered De Bracy , is a good lance but there are others around these lists , Sir Prior , who will not fear to encounter him . 
'' Silence , sirs , '' said Waldemar , and let the Prince assume his seat . 
The knights and spectators are alike impatient , the time advances , and highly fit it is that the sports should commence . 
Secondly , any knight proposing to combat , might , if he pleased , select a special antagonist from among the challengers , by touching his shield . 
On this second day the knightly games ceased . 
The lists now presented a most splendid spectacle . 
records at great length their devices , their colours , and the embroidery of their horse trappings . 
It is unnecessary to be particular on these subjects . 
'' These lines are part of an unpublished poem . 
Their escutcheons have long mouldered from the walls of their castles . 
As the procession entered the lists , the sound of a wild Barbaric music was heard from behind the tents of the challengers , where the performers were concealed . 
The fifth knight alone maintained the honour of his party , and parted fairly with the Knight of St John , both splintering their lances without advantage on either side . 
The shouts of the multitude , together with the acclamations of the heralds , and the clangour of the trumpets , announced the triumph of the victors and the defeat of the vanquished . 
The spirits , therefore , of those opposed to them , seemed to be considerably damped by their continued success . 
in striking the helmet and shield of their antagonist firmly and strongly , with the lance held in a direct line , so that the weapon might break unless the champion was overthrown . 
But , though both stout of heart , and strong of person , Athelstane had a disposition too inert and unambitious to make the exertions which Cedric seemed to expect from him . 
'' Two things displeased Cedric in this speech . 
All eyes were turned to see the new champion which these sounds announced , and no sooner were the barriers opened than he paced into the lists . 
As far as could be judged of a man sheathed in armour , the new adventurer did not greatly exceed the middle size , and seemed to be rather slender than strongly made . 
He was mounted on a gallant black horse , and as he passed through the lists he gracefully saluted the Prince and the ladies by lowering his lance . 
Then take your place in the lists , '' said Bois Guilbert , and look your last upon the sun for this night thou shalt sleep in paradise . 
This feat of horsemanship again attracted the applause of the multitude . 
He changed his horse for a proved and fresh one of great strength and spirit . 
He chose a new and a tough spear , lest the wood of the former might have been strained in the previous encounters he had sustained . 
Lastly , he laid aside his shield , which had received some little damage , and received another from his squires . 
Bois Guilbert's new shield bore a raven in full flight , holding in its claws a skull , and bearing the motto , Gare le Corbeau . 
When the two champions stood opposed to each other at the two extremities of the lists , the public expectation was strained to the highest pitch . 
Few augured the possibility that the encounter could terminate well for the Disinherited Knight , yet his courage and gallantry secured the general good wishes of the spectators . 
A few minutes pause having been allowed , that the combatants and their horses might recover breath , Prince John with his truncheon signed to the trumpets to sound the onset . 
Fair and true he hit the Norman on the visor , where his lance's point kept hold of the bars . 
Yet , even at this disadvantage , the Templar sustained his high reputation and had not the girths of his saddle burst , he might not have been unhorsed . 
As it chanced , however , saddle , horse , and man , rolled on the ground under a cloud of dust . 
The Disinherited Knight sprung from his steed , and also unsheathed his sword . 
We shall meet again , I trust , '' said the Templar , casting a resentful glance at his antagonist and where there are none to separate us . 
'' If we do not , '' said the Disinherited Knight , the fault shall not be mine . 
On foot or horseback , with spear , with axe , or with sword , I am alike ready to encounter thee . 
'' More and angrier words would have been exchanged , but the marshals , crossing their lances betwixt them , compelled them to separate . 
The Disinherited Knight returned to his first station , and Bois Guilbert to his tent , where he remained for the rest of the day in an agony of despair . 
The gigantic Front de B oe uf , armed in sable armour , was the first who took the field . 
He bore on a white shield a black bull's head , half defaced by the numerous encounters which he had undergone , and bearing the arrogant motto , Cave , Adsum . 
Over this champion the Disinherited Knight obtained a slight but decisive advantage . 
Both Knights broke their lances fairly , but Front de B oe uf , who lost a stirrup in the encounter , was adjudged to have the disadvantage . 
In his fourth combat with De Grantmesnil , the Disinherited Knight showed as much courtesy as he had hitherto evinced courage and dexterity . 
This De Grantmesnil declined , avowing himself vanquished as much by the courtesy as by the address of his opponent . 
The acclamations of thousands applauded the unanimous award of the Prince and marshals , announcing that day's honours to the Disinherited Knight . 
CHAPTER IX In the midst was seen A lady of a more majestic mien , By stature and by beauty mark'd their sovereign Queen . 
The Flower and the Leaf . 
By my faith , I shall never forget the force with which he shocked De Vipont . 
The poor Hospitaller was hurled from his saddle like a stone from a sling . 
'' Boast not of that , '' said a Knight of St John , who was present your Temple champion had no better luck . 
I saw your brave lance , Bois Guilbert , roll thrice over , grasping his hands full of sand at every turn . 
De Bracy , being attached to the Templars , would have replied , but was prevented by Prince John . 
Silence , sirs ! '' he said what unprofitable debate have we here ? '' The victor , '' said De Wyvil , still waits the pleasure of your highness . 
Should he remain there till night fall , he has had work enough to keep him warm . 
'' It may be the Earl of Salisbury , '' said De Bracy he is about the same pitch . 
'' Sir Thomas de Multon , the Knight of Gilsland , rather , '' said Fitzurse Salisbury is bigger in the bones . 
'' A whisper arose among the train , but by whom first suggested could not be ascertained . 
Look at him more closely , '' he continued , your highness will see that he wants three inches of King Richard's height , and twice as much of his shoulder breadth . 
The very horse he backs , could not have carried the ponderous weight of King Richard through a single course . 
But the Disinherited Knight spoke not a word in reply to the compliment of the Prince , which he only acknowledged with a profound obeisance . 
The Prince accordingly made a sign with his truncheon , as the Knight passed him in his second career around the lists . 
He had also a wish to establish himself in the good graces of the lady for John was at least as licentious in his pleasures as profligate in his ambition . 
And so indeed it proved . 
It was worth while to see the different conduct of the beauties who underwent this examination , during the time it was proceeding . 
At length the champion paused beneath the balcony in which the Lady Rowena was placed , and the expectation of the spectators was excited to the utmost . 
It must be owned , that if an interest displayed in his success could have bribed the Disinherited Knight , the part of the lists before which he paused had merited his predilection . 
The Lady Rowena had watched the progress of the day with equal attention , though without openly betraying the same intense interest . 
Even the unmoved Athelstane had shown symptoms of shaking off his apathy , when , calling for a huge goblet of muscadine , he quaffed it to the health of the Disinherited Knight . 
Another group , stationed under the gallery occupied by the Saxons , had shown no less interest in the fate of the day . 
There had been therefore no small interest taken in the success of the Disinherited Knight , by those who occupied the part of the lists before which he now paused . 
'' It was on this occasion , as during his whole life , John's misfortune , not perfectly to understand the characters of those whom he wished to conciliate . 
Waldemar Fitzurse was rather offended than pleased at the Prince stating thus broadly an opinion , that his daughter had been slighted . 
I know no right of chivalry , '' he said , more precious or inalienable than that of each free knight to choose his lady love by his own judgment . 
My daughter courts distinction from no one and in her own character , and in her own sphere , will never fail to receive the full proportion of that which is her due . 
'' Rowena remained silent , and Cedric answered for her in his native Saxon . 
The Lady Rowena , '' he said , possesses not the language in which to reply to your courtesy , or to sustain her part in your festival . 
I also , and the noble Athelstane of Coningsburgh , speak only the language , and practise only the manners , of our fathers . 
We therefore decline with thanks your Highness's courteous invitation to the banquet . 
'' So saying , he lifted the coronet , and placed it upon Rowena's head , in token of her acceptance of the temporary authority assigned to her . 
What says he ? '' said Prince John , affecting not to understand the Saxon language , in which , however , he was well skilled . 
The purport of Cedric's speech was repeated to him in French . 
It is well , '' he said to morrow we will ourself conduct this mute sovereign to her seat of dignity . 
of these peasants should be restrained by some striking example . 
'' Waldemar Fitzurse , who probably thought his patron was not taking the readiest road to popularity , shrugged up his shoulders and was silent . 
Prince John resumed his retreat from the lists , and the dispersion of the multitude became general . 
In various routes , according to the different quarters from which they came , and in groups of various numbers , the spectators were seen retiring over the plain . 
The same acclamations were bestowed upon Prince John , although he was indebted for them rather to the splendour of his appearance and train , than to the popularity of his character . 
On his retiring to his tent , many who had lingered in the lists , to look upon and form conjectures concerning him , also dispersed . 
A strong guard of men at arms , renewed at intervals , from two hours to two hours , surrounded the lists , and kept watch during the night . 
But their officious inquisitiveness was not gratified . 
The Knight had scarcely finished a hasty meal , ere his menial announced to him that five men , each leading a barbed steed , desired to speak with him . 
'' The other squires repeated nearly the same formula , and then stood to await the decision of the Disinherited Knight . 
To you four , sirs , '' replied the Knight , addressing those who had last spoken , and to your honourable and valiant masters , I have one common reply . 
Commend me to the noble knights , your masters , and say , I should do ill to deprive them of steeds and arms which can never be used by braver cavaliers . 
'' It is sufficient , '' said the Disinherited Knight . 
'' The squires , with cap in hand , and low reverences , expressed their deep sense of a courtesy and generosity not often practised , at least upon a scale so extensive . 
The Disinherited Knight then addressed his discourse to Baldwin , the squire of Brian de Bois Guilbert . 
From your master , '' said he , I will accept neither arms nor ransom . 
To this mortal quarrel he has himself defied me , and I shall not forget the challenge . 
'' You have spoken well , good squire , '' said the Disinherited Knight , well and boldly , as it beseemeth him to speak who answers for an absent master . 
Leave not , however , the horse and armour here . 
Restore them to thy master or , if he scorns to accept them , retain them , good friend , for thine own use . 
So far as they are mine , I bestow them upon you freely . 
'' Baldwin made a deep obeisance , and retired with his companions and the Disinherited Knight entered the pavilion . 
Thus far , Gurth , '' said he , addressing his attendant , the reputation of English chivalry hath not suffered in my hands . 
'' And I , '' said Gurth , for a Saxon swineherd , have not ill played the personage of a Norman squire at arms . 
'' Yea , but , '' answered the Disinherited Knight , thou hast ever kept me in anxiety lest thy clownish bearing should discover thee . 
If I am discovered '' Enough , '' said the Disinherited Knight , thou knowest my promise . 
'' Nay , for that matter , '' said Gurth , I will never fail my friend for fear of my skin cutting . 
I have a tough hide , that will bear knife or scourge as well as any boar's hide in my herd . 
'' Trust me , I will requite the risk you run for my love , Gurth , '' said the Knight . 
Meanwhile , I pray you to accept these ten pieces of gold . 
'' I am richer , '' said Gurth , putting them into his pouch , than ever was swineherd or bondsman . 
'' Nay , by St Dunstan , '' replied Gurth , that I will not do . 
'' See him contented , however , thou stubborn varlet , '' said the Disinherited Knight . 
'' Think not thus of it , my father , '' said Rebecca we also have advantages . 
These Gentiles , cruel and oppressive as they are , are in some sort dependent on the dispersed children of Zion , whom they despise and persecute . 
We are like the herb which flourisheth most when it is most trampled on . 
Even this day's pageant had not proceeded without the consent of the despised Jew , who furnished the means . 
'' Daughter , '' said Isaac , thou hast harped upon another string of sorrow . 
'' Assuredly , '' said Rebecca , you shall not repent you of requiting the good deed received of the stranger knight . 
desired to speak with him . 
He that would live by traffic , must hold himself at the disposal of every one claiming business with him . 
His appearance was rather suspicious than prepossessing , especially as , instead of doffing his bonnet , he pulled it still deeper over his rugged brow . 
Art thou Isaac the Jew of York ? '' said Gurth , in Saxon . 
and who art thou ? '' That is not to the purpose , '' answered Gurth . 
'' O , '' said the Jew , you are come to pay moneys ? Holy Father Abraham ! that altereth our relation to each other . 
And from whom dost thou bring it ? '' From the Disinherited Knight , '' said Gurth , victor in this day's tournament . 
It is the price of the armour supplied to him by Kirjath Jairam of Leicester , on thy recommendation . 
The steed is restored to thy stable . 
I desire to know the amount of the sum which I am to pay for the armour . 
'' I said he was a good youth ! '' exclaimed Isaac with joyful exultation . 
A cup of wine will do thee no harm , '' he added , filling and handing to the swineherd a richer drought than Gurth had ever before tasted . 
What , Isaac ! thou must bear a conscience , though it be a Jewish one . 
'' My master has disposed of them already , '' said Gurth . 
Ah ! that was wrong , '' said the Jew , that was the part of a fool . 
No Christians here could buy so many horses and armour no Jew except myself would give him half the values . 
But thou hast a hundred zecchins with thee in that bag , '' said Isaac , prying under Gurth's cloak , it is a heavy one . 
'' I have heads for cross bow bolts in it , '' said Gurth , readily . 
Nevertheless , if such be your least offer , I must be content . 
'' Fill thyself another goblet of wine , '' said the Jew . 
Ah ! eighty zecchins is too little . 
It leaveth no profit for the usages of the moneys and , besides , the good horse may have suffered wrong in this day's encounter . 
O , it was a hard and a dangerous meeting ! man and steed rushing on each other like wild bulls of Bashan ! The horse cannot but have had wrong . 
'' And I say , '' replied Gurth , he is sound , wind and limb and you may see him now , in your stable . 
And I say , over and above , that seventy zecchins is enough for the armour , and I hope a Christian's word is as good as a Jew's . 
'' Nay , nay ! '' said Isaac lay down the talents the shekels the eighty zecchins , and thou shalt see I will consider thee liberally . 
'' Gurth at length complied and telling out eighty zecchins upon the table , the Jew delivered out to him an acquittance for the horse and suit of armour . 
The Jew's hand trembled for joy as he wrapped up the first seventy pieces of gold . 
The last ten he told over with much deliberation , pausing , and saying something as he took each piece from the table , and dropt it into his purse . 
'' Here he made a considerable pause , and Gurth had good hope that the last three pieces might escape the fate of their comrades but the enumeration proceeded . 
He weighed it upon the tip of his finger , and made it ring by dropping it upon the table . 
Rebecca , '' said the Jew , that Ishmaelite hath gone somewhat beyond me . 
'' As he turned to receive Rebecca's answer , he observed , that during his chattering with Gurth , she had left the apartment unperceived . 
Gurth had some reluctance to obey the summons . 
She asked him the particulars of his transaction with Isaac , which he detailed accurately . 
My father did but jest with thee , good fellow , '' said Rebecca he owes thy master deeper kindness than these arms and steed could pay , were their value tenfold . 
What sum didst thou pay my father even now ? '' Eighty zecchins , '' said Gurth , surprised at the question . 
In this purse , '' said Rebecca , thou wilt find a hundred . 
Restore to thy master that which is his due , and enrich thyself with the remainder . 
Haste begone stay not to render thanks ! and beware how you pass through this crowded town , where thou mayst easily lose both thy burden and thy life . 
Reuben , '' she added , clapping her hands together , light forth this stranger , and fail not to draw lock and bar behind him . 
'' CHAPTER XI st Outlaw . 
Stand , sir , and throw us that you have about you If not , we'll make you sit , and rifle you . 
Sir , we are undone ! these are the villains That all the travellers do fear so much . 
My friends , st Out . 
That's not so , sir , we are your enemies . 
Peace ! we'll hear him . 
Ay , by my beard , will we For he's a proper man . 
From the village were heard the distant sounds of revelry , mixed occasionally with loud laughter , sometimes broken by screams , and sometimes by wild strains of distant music . 
All these sounds , intimating the disorderly state of the town , crowded with military nobles and their dissolute attendants , gave Gurth some uneasiness . 
The Jewess was right , '' he said to himself . 
Would I were out of the shade of these infernal bushes , that I might at least see any of St Nicholas's clerks before they spring on my shoulders . 
'' Gurth accordingly hastened his pace , in order to gain the open common to which the lane led , but was not so fortunate as to accomplish his object . 
Surrender your charge , '' said one of them we are the deliverers of the commonwealth , who ease every man of his burden . 
'' We shall see that presently , '' said the robber and , speaking to his companions , he added , bring along the knave . 
I see he would have his head broken , as well as his purse cut , and so be let blood in two veins at once . 
Here his captors were joined by two other persons , apparently belonging to the gang . 
What money hast thou , churl ? '' said one of the thieves . 
Thirty zecchins of my own property , '' answered Gurth , doggedly . 
A forfeit a forfeit , '' shouted the robbers a Saxon hath thirty zecchins , and returns sober from a village ! An undeniable and unredeemable forfeit of all he hath about him . 
'' I hoarded it to purchase my freedom , '' said Gurth . 
'' A sad truth , '' replied Gurth but if these same thirty zecchins will buy my freedom from you , unloose my hands , and I will pay them to you . 
Meantime render up thy trust for a time . 
Who is thy master ? '' The Disinherited Knight , '' said Gurth . 
'' What is thine own name and lineage ? '' To tell that , '' said Gurth , might reveal my master's . 
'' Thou art a saucy groom , '' said the robber , but of that anon . 
How comes thy master by this gold ? is it of his inheritance , or by what means hath it accrued to him ? '' By his good lance , '' answered Gurth . 
These bags contain the ransom of four good horses , and four good suits of armour . 
'' How much is there ? '' demanded the robber . 
'' Only two hundred zecchins ! '' said the bandit your master hath dealt liberally by the vanquished , and put them to a cheap ransom . 
Name those who paid the gold . 
The armour and horse of the Templar Brian de Bois Guilbert , at what ransom were they held ? Thou seest thou canst not deceive me . 
'' My master , '' replied Gurth , will take nought from the Templar save his life's blood . 
They are on terms of mortal defiance , and cannot hold courteous intercourse together . 
'' Indeed ! '' repeated the robber , and paused after he had said the word . 
'' And how much didst thou pay to Isaac ? Methinks , to judge by weight , there is still two hundred zecchins in this pouch . 
'' I paid to Isaac , '' said the Saxon , eighty zecchins , and he restored me a hundred in lieu thereof . 
You will find the just sum in a silken purse within the leathern pouch , and separate from the rest of the gold . 
'' There is no more mercy in them , '' said another of the banditti , than in an unbribed sheriffs officer . 
'' It is , however , as I say , '' said Gurth . 
'' A light was procured accordingly , and the robber proceeded to examine the purse . 
The others crowded around him , and even two who had hold of Gurth relaxed their grasp while they stretched their necks to see the issue of the search . 
But such was no part of his intention . 
The thieves , however , were too nimble for him , and again secured both the bag and the trusty Gurth . 
Knave ! '' said the Captain , getting up , thou hast broken my head and with other men of our sort thou wouldst fare the worse for thy insolence . 
But thou shalt know thy fate instantly . 
First let us speak of thy master the knight's matters must go before the squire's , according to the due order of chivalry . 
The errant knight , his master , must needs pass us toll free . 
He is too like ourselves for us to make booty of him , since dogs should not worry dogs where wolves and foxes are to be found in abundance . 
'' Like us ? '' answered one of the gang I should like to hear how that is made good . 
And this insolent peasant , he too , I warrant me , is to be dismissed scatheless ? '' Not if thou canst scathe him , '' replied the Captain . 
Yet , though quarter staff play be out of date , what we can in prose we will do for these bold champions . 
'' Gurth thanked the Captain for his courtesy , and promised to attend to his recommendation . 
On the very verge of the thicket two men spoke to his conductors , and receiving an answer in a whisper , withdrew into the wood , and suffered them to pass unmolested . 
This circumstance induced Gurth to believe both that the gang was strong in numbers , and that they kept regular guards around their place of rendezvous . 
We go with you no farther , '' said they it were not safe that we should do so . 
CHAPTER XII The heralds left their pricking up and down , Now ringen trumpets loud and clarion . 
This was a necessary precaution , in order to secure equality betwixt the two bodies who should be opposed to each other . 
Those who had concurred in the challenge adhered to his party of course , excepting only Ralph de Vipont , whom his fall had rendered unfit so soon to put on his armour . 
There was no want of distinguished and noble candidates to fill up the ranks on either side . 
About the same time arrived Cedric the Saxon , with the Lady Rowena , unattended , however , by Athelstane . 
His best , if not his only reason , for adhering to the party of Brian de Bois Guilbert , Athelstane had the prudence to keep to himself . 
Ladies , '' he said , attend your Queen , as you wish in your turn to be distinguished by like honours . 
No sooner was Rowena seated , than a burst of music , half drowned by the shouts of the multitude , greeted her new dignity . 
The heralds then proclaimed silence until the laws of the tourney should be rehearsed . 
These were calculated in some degree to abate the dangers of the day a precaution the more necessary , as the conflict was to be maintained with sharp swords and pointed lances . 
The champions were therefore prohibited to thrust with the sword , and were confined to striking . 
A knight , it was announced , might use a mace or battle axe at pleasure , but the dagger was a prohibited weapon . 
A knight unhorsed might renew the fight on foot with any other on the opposite side in the same predicament but mounted horsemen were in that case forbidden to assail him . 
A knight thus overcome was not permitted to take farther share in the combat . 
Having announced these precautions , the heralds concluded with an exhortation to each good knight to do his duty , and to merit favour from the Queen of Beauty and of Love . 
This proclamation having been made , the heralds withdrew to their stations . 
As yet the knights held their long lances upright , their bright points glancing to the sun , and the streamers with which they were decorated fluttering over the plumage of the helmets . 
Thus they remained while the marshals of the field surveyed their ranks with the utmost exactness , lest either party had more or fewer than the appointed number . 
The tale was found exactly complete . 
The rear rank of each party advanced at a slower pace to sustain the defeated , and follow up the success of the victors of their party . 
The tumult was presently increased by the advance of the second rank on either side , which , acting as a reserve , now rushed on to aid their companions . 
the Temple For the Temple ! '' The opposite party shouted in answer Desdichado ! Desdichado ! '' which watch word they took from the motto upon their leader's shield . 
The splendid armour of the combatants was now defaced with dust and blood , and gave way at every stroke of the sword and battle axe . 
The gay plumage , shorn from the crests , drifted upon the breeze like snow flakes . 
All that was beautiful and graceful in the martial array had disappeared , and what was now visible was only calculated to awake terror or compassion . 
Such being the interest taken by the fair sex in this bloody game , that of the men is the more easily understood . 
Both displayed great feats of gallantry , nor did either Bois Guilbert or the Disinherited Knight find in the ranks opposed to them a champion who could be termed their unquestioned match . 
They repeatedly endeavoured to single out each other , spurred by mutual animosity , and aware that the fall of either leader might be considered as decisive of victory . 
Such was the address of each in parrying and striking , that the spectators broke forth into a unanimous and involuntary shout , expressive of their delight and admiration . 
Turning their horses , therefore , at the same moment , the Norman spurred against the Disinherited Knight on the one side , and the Saxon on the other . 
Recovering their horses however , and wheeling them round , the whole three pursued their united purpose of bearing to the earth the Disinherited Knight . 
Nothing could have saved him , except the remarkable strength and activity of the noble horse which he had won on the preceding day . 
'' As he spoke thus , an unexpected incident changed the fortune of the day . 
This was no longer matter of so much difficulty as formerly . 
The Templars horse had bled much , and gave way under the shock of the Disinherited Knight's charge . 
Brian de Bois Guilbert rolled on the field , encumbered with the stirrup , from which he was unable to draw his foot . 
Several more were disabled for life and those who escaped best carried the marks of the conflict to the grave with them . 
Hence it is always mentioned in the old records , as the Gentle and Joyous Passage of Arms of Ashby . 
To the surprise of all present , however , the knight thus preferred was nowhere to be found . 
After he had been summoned twice by sound of trumpet , and proclamation of the heralds , it became necessary to name another to receive the honours which had been assigned to him . 
Prince John had now no further excuse for resisting the claim of the Disinherited Knight , whom , therefore , he named the champion of the day . 
'' The Knight bowed low and gracefully , but returned no answer . 
On the lower step of this throne the champion was made to kneel down . 
When the helmet was removed , the well formed , yet sun burnt features of a young man of twenty five were seen , amidst a profusion of short fair hair . 
His countenance was as pale as death , and marked in one or two places with streaks of blood . 
There was a general consternation . 
Cedric , who had been struck mute by the sudden appearance of his banished son , now rushed forward , as if to separate him from Rowena . 
This cow , worth twenty oxen , is decreed , For him who farthest sends the winged reed . 
The name of Ivanhoe was no sooner pronounced than it flew from mouth to mouth , with all the celerity with which eagerness could convey and curiosity receive it . 
It was not long ere it reached the circle of the Prince , whose brow darkened as he heard the news . 
'' Front de B oe uf , '' replied John , is a man more willing to swallow three manors such as Ivanhoe , than to disgorge one of them . 
'' The audience were too much interested in the question not to pronounce the Prince's assumed right altogether indubitable . 
Prior Aymer also assented to the general proposition , observing , however , That the blessed Jerusalem could not indeed be termed a foreign country . 
She was communis mater the mother of all Christians . 
'' Waldemar , whose curiosity had led him towards the place where Ivanhoe had fallen to the ground , now returned . 
'' A stern smile curled the Prince's lip as he spoke . 
Waldemar Fitzurse hastened to reply , that Ivanhoe was already removed from the lists , and in the custody of his friends . 
I was somewhat afflicted , '' he said , to see the grief of the Queen of Love and Beauty , whose sovereignty of a day this event has changed into mourning . 
'' We shall cheer her sorrows , '' said Prince John , and amend her blood , by wedding her to a Norman . 
She seems a minor , and must therefore be at our royal disposal in marriage . 
'' Prince John had proceeded thus far , and was about to give the signal for retiring from the lists , when a small billet was put into his hand . 
From whence ? '' said Prince John , looking at the person by whom it was delivered . 
From foreign parts , my lord , but from whence I know not'' replied his attendant . 
A Frenchman brought it hither , who said , he had ridden night and day to put it into the hands of your highness . 
Recovering from the first effects of his surprise , he took Waldemar Fitzurse and De Bracy aside , and put the billet into their hands successively . 
It means , '' he added , in a faltering voice , that my brother Richard has obtained his freedom . 
'' This may be a false alarm , or a forged letter , '' said De Bracy . 
It is France's own hand and seal , '' replied Prince John . 
It is time , then , '' said Fitzurse , to draw our party to a head , either at York , or some other centrical place . 
A few days later , and it will be indeed too late . 
Your highness must break short this present mummery . 
'' The yeomen and commons , '' said De Bracy , must not be dismissed discontented , for lack of their share in the sports . 
'' The day , '' said Waldemar , is not yet very far spent let the archer's shoot a few rounds at the target , and the prize be adjudged . 
This will be an abundant fulfilment of the Prince's promises , so far as this herd of Saxon serfs is concerned . 
'' I thank thee , Waldemar , '' said the Prince thou remindest me , too , that I have a debt to pay to that insolent peasant who yesterday insulted our person . 
Our banquet also shall go forward to night as we proposed . 
Were this my last hour of power , it should be an hour sacred to revenge and to pleasure let new cares come with to morrow's new day . 
More than thirty yeomen at first presented themselves as competitors , several of whom were rangers and under keepers in the royal forests of Needwood and Charnwood . 
The diminished list of competitors for silvan fame still amounted to eight . 
Prince John stepped from his royal seat to view more nearly the persons of these chosen yeomen , several of whom wore the royal livery . 
'' Under favour , sir , '' replied the yeoman , I have another reason for refraining to shoot , besides the fearing discomfiture and disgrace . 
'' Prince John coloured as he put the question , What is thy name , yeoman ? '' Locksley , '' answered the yeoman . 
Then , Locksley , '' said Prince John , thou shalt shoot in thy turn , when these yeomen have displayed their skill . 
'' And how if I refuse to shoot on such a wager ? '' said the yeoman . 
Nevertheless , I will obey your pleasure . 
'' Look to him close , men at arms , '' said Prince John , his heart is sinking I am jealous lest he attempt to escape the trial . 
And do you , good fellows , shoot boldly round a buck and a butt of wine are ready for your refreshment in yonder tent , when the prize is won . 
'' A target was placed at the upper end of the southern avenue which led to the lists . 
The archers , having previously determined by lot their order of precedence , were to shoot each three shafts in succession . 
One by one the archers , stepping forward , delivered their shafts yeomanlike and bravely . 
Of the ten shafts which hit the target , two within the inner ring were shot by Hubert , a forester in the service of Malvoisin , who was accordingly pronounced victorious . 
'' That is but fair , '' answered Prince John , and it shall not be refused thee . 
If thou dost beat this braggart , Hubert , I will fill the bugle with silver pennies for thee . 
'' A man can do but his best , '' answered Hubert but my grandsire drew a good long bow at Hastings , and I trust not to dishonour his memory . 
'' The former target was now removed , and a fresh one of the same size placed in its room . 
The arrow whistled through the air , and lighted within the inner ring of the target , but not exactly in the centre . 
You have not allowed for the wind , Hubert , '' said his antagonist , bending his bow , or that had been a better shot . 
An your highness were to hang me , '' he said , a man can but do his best . 
A Hubert ! a Hubert ! '' shouted the populace , more interested in a known person than in a stranger . 
In the clout ! in the clout ! a Hubert for ever ! '' Thou canst not mend that shot , Locksley , '' said the Prince , with an insulting smile . 
I will notch his shaft for him , however , '' replied Locksley . 
And letting fly his arrow with a little more precaution than before , it lighted right upon that of his competitor , which it split to shivers . 
The people who stood around were so astonished at his wonderful dexterity , that they could not even give vent to their surprise in their usual clamour . 
'' He then turned to leave the lists . 
Let your guards attend me , '' he said , if you please I go but to cut a rod from the next willow bush . 
Locksley returned almost instantly with a willow wand about six feet in length , perfectly straight , and rather thicker than a man's thumb . 
'' Cowardly dog ! '' said Prince John . 
Sirrah Locksley , do thou shoot but , if thou hittest such a mark , I will say thou art the first man ever did so . 
However it be , thou shalt not crow over us with a mere show of superior skill . 
'' I will do my best , as Hubert says , '' answered Locksley no man can do more . 
He then took his aim with some deliberation , and the multitude awaited the event in breathless silence . 
The archer vindicated their opinion of his skill his arrow split the willow rod against which it was aimed . 
A jubilee of acclamations followed and even Prince John , in admiration of Locksley's skill , lost for an instant his dislike to his person . 
For never did so strong a hand bend a bow , or so true an eye direct a shaft . 
'' Pardon me , noble Prince , '' said Locksley but I have vowed , that if ever I take service , it should be with your royal brother King Richard . 
These twenty nobles I leave to Hubert , who has this day drawn as brave a bow as his grandsire did at Hastings . 
The victorious archer would not perhaps have escaped John's attention so easily , had not that Prince had other subjects of anxious and more important meditation pressing upon his mind at that instant . 
He called upon his chamberlain as he gave the signal for retiring from the lists , and commanded him instantly to gallop to Ashby , and seek out Isaac the Jew . 
Tell the dog , '' he said , to send me , before sun down , two thousand crowns . 
He knows the security but thou mayst show him this ring for a token . 
The rest of the money must be paid at York within six days . 
If he neglects , I will have the unbelieving villain's head . 
Look that thou pass him not on the way for the circumcised slave was displaying his stolen finery amongst us . 
'' So saying , the Prince resumed his horse , and returned to Ashby , the whole crowd breaking up and dispersing upon his retreat . 
Prince John held his high festival in the Castle of Ashby . 
It was accordingly the Prince's intention , which he for some time maintained , to treat these unwonted guests with a courtesy to which they had been little accustomed . 
Upon this occasion the Irish chieftains contended which should first offer to the young Prince their loyal homage and the kiss of peace . 
It is necessary to keep these inconsistencies of John's character in view , that the reader may understand his conduct during the present evening . 
The Emperor Charlemagne , in whose reign they were first introduced , seems to have been very sensible of the inconveniences arising from the fashion of this garment . 
They were therefore in universal use among Prince John's courtiers and the long mantle , which formed the upper garment of the Saxons , was held in proportional derision . 
The guests were seated at a table which groaned under the quantity of good cheer . 
The banquet was crowned with the richest wines , both foreign and domestic . 
But , though luxurious , the Norman nobles were not generally speaking an intemperate race . 
His conduct , however , was an exception to the general manners of his countrymen . 
And while their manners were thus the subject of sarcastic observation , the untaught Saxons unwittingly transgressed several of the arbitrary rules established for the regulation of society . 
The topics were treated with military frankness , and the jest and laugh went round the hall . 
He left my homely dwelling to mingle with the gay nobility of your brother's court , where he learned to do those tricks of horsemanship which you prize so highly . 
He left it contrary to my wish and command and in the days of Alfred that would have been termed disobedience ay , and a crime severely punishable . 
I think , '' said be , after a moment's pause , that my brother proposed to confer upon his favourite the rich manor of Ivanhoe . 
'' Front de B oe uf would have replied , but Prince John's petulance and levity got the start . 
'' They go before us indeed in the field as deer before dogs , '' said Malvoisin . 
And with good right may they go before us forget not , '' said the Prior Aymer , the superior decency and decorum of their manners . 
'' Their singular abstemiousness and temperance , '' said De Bracy , forgetting the plan which promised him a Saxon bride . 
Together with the courage and conduct , '' said Brian de Bois Guilbert , by which they distinguished themselves at Hastings and elsewhere . 
'' By my faith , a biting jest ! '' said Prince John . 
'' For fear of the Saxons ? '' said De Bracy , laughing we should need no weapon but our hunting spears to bring these boars to bay . 
Here ! I fill my cup to Cedric himself , since he refuses to pledge his son's health . 
'' The cup went round amid the well dissembled applause of the courtiers , which , however , failed to make the impression on the mind of the Saxon that had been designed . 
He was not naturally acute of perception , but those too much undervalued his understanding who deemed that this flattering compliment would obliterate the sense of the prior insult . 
He was silent , however , when the royal pledge again passed round , To Sir Athelstane of Coningsburgh . 
'' The knight made his obeisance , and showed his sense of the honour by draining a huge goblet in answer to it . 
Yet I will name a Norman the first in arms and in place the best and the noblest of his race . 
And the lips that shall refuse to pledge me to his well earned fame , I term false and dishonoured , and will so maintain them with my life . 
Some of them , ancient and experienced courtiers , closely imitated the example of the Prince himself , raising the goblet to their lips , and again replacing it before them . 
But no man ventured directly to gainsay a pledge filled to the health of the reigning monarch . 
'' The monk hath some fair penitent to shrive to night , that he is in such a hurry to depart , '' said De Bracy . 
Not so , Sir Knight , '' replied the Abbot but I must move several miles forward this evening upon my homeward journey . 
'' They are breaking up , '' said the Prince in a whisper to Fitzurse their fears anticipate the event , and this coward Prior is the first to shrink from me . 
'' Fear not , my lord , '' said Waldemar I will show him such reasons as shall induce him to join us when we hold our meeting at York . 
Sir Prior , '' he said , I must speak with you in private , before you mount your palfrey . 
'' The other guests were now fast dispersing , with the exception of those immediately attached to , Prince John's faction , and his retinue . 
But this is no time for recrimination . 
De Bracy and I will instantly go among these shuffling cowards , and convince them they have gone too far to recede . 
'' Would to God , '' said Fitzurse to De Bracy , that aught could reanimate his own ! His brother's very name is an ague to him . 
No spider ever took more pains to repair the shattered meshes of his web , than did Waldemar Fitzurse to reunite and combine the scattered members of Prince John's cabal . 
Few of these were attached to him from inclination , and none from personal regard . 
It was therefore necessary , that Fitzurse should open to them new prospects of advantage , and remind them of those which they at present enjoyed . 
The leaders of the mercenaries received a donation in gold an argument the most persuasive to their minds , and without which all others would have proved in vain . 
Promises were still more liberally distributed than money by this active agent and , in fine , nothing was left undone that could determine the wavering , or animate the disheartened . 
If Richard returns , '' said Fitzurse , he returns to enrich his needy and impoverished crusaders at the expense of those who did not follow him to the Holy Land . 
He returns to avenge upon the Orders of the Temple and the Hospital , the preference which they showed to Philip of France during the wars in the Holy Land . 
He returns , in fine , to punish as a rebel every adherent of his brother Prince John . 
If Richard indeed comes back , it must be alone , unfollowed unfriended . 
The bones of his gallant army have whitened the sands of Palestine . 
The few of his followers who have returned have straggled hither like this Wilfred of Ivanhoe , beggared and broken men . 
And what talk ye of Richard's right of birth ? '' he proceeded , in answer to those who objected scruples on that head . 
'' These , and many more arguments , some adapted to the peculiar circumstances of those whom he addressed , had the expected weight with the nobles of Prince John's faction . 
Most of them consented to attend the proposed meeting at York , for the purpose of making general arrangements for placing the crown upon the head of Prince John . 
'' I minding mine own business ! '' echoed Waldemar I have been engaged in that of Prince John , our joint patron . 
'' A hopeful auxiliary , '' said Fitzurse impatiently playing the fool in the very moment of utter necessity . 
'' The tribe of Benjamin ? '' said Fitzurse I comprehend thee not . 
'' I have heard the story , '' said Fitzurse , though either the Prior or thou has made some singular alterations in date and circumstances . 
'' Art thou mad , De Bracy ? '' said Fitzurse . 
'' And should belong to none , '' said De Bracy the work of the Conquest should be completed . 
Yet I mean no immediate discovery of myself . 
Seem I not in this garb as bold a forester as ever blew horn ? The blame of the violence shall rest with the outlaws of the Yorkshire forests . 
Next day's march brings them within our reach , and , falcon ways , we swoop on them at once . 
'' A marvellously sage plan , '' said Fitzurse , and , as I think , not entirely of thine own device . 
at least waste as little time as possible let not thy folly be lasting as well as untimely . 
But I hear my comrades assembling , and the steeds stamping and neighing in the outer court . 
I go , like a true knight , to win the smiles of beauty . 
hastened to receive the orders of the future sovereign . 
This knight had left the field abruptly when the victory was achieved and when he was called upon to receive the reward of his valour , he was nowhere to be found . 
In the meantime , while summoned by heralds and by trumpets , the knight was holding his course northward , avoiding all frequented paths , and taking the shortest road through the woodlands . 
He paused for the night at a small hostelry lying out of the ordinary route , where , however , he obtained from a wandering minstrel news of the event of the tourney . 
Beside this fountain were the ruins of a very small chapel , of which the roof had partly fallen in . 
The ribs of two of these arches remained , though the roof had fallen down betwixt them over the others it remained entire . 
It was some time before he obtained any answer , and the reply , when made , was unpropitious . 
'' Worthy father , '' answered the knight , here is a poor wanderer bewildered in these woods , who gives thee the opportunity of exercising thy charity and hospitality . 
'' And I pray you , good Christian brother , '' replied the anchorite , to disturb me no more . 
'' The road the road ! '' vociferated the knight , give me directions for the road , if I am to expect no more from thee . 
'' The road , '' replied the hermit , is easy to hit . 
The path from the wood leads to a morass , and from thence to a ford , which , as the rains have abated , may now be passable . 
given way in sundry places . 
Either open the door quickly , or , by the rood , I will beat it down and make entry for myself . 
Two large shaggy dogs , half greyhound half mastiff , stood ready to rush upon the traveller as soon as the door should be opened . 
'' The good keeper of the forest , '' said the hermit , hath allowed me the use of these animals , to protect my solitude until the times shall mend . 
'' So saying , he pointed successively to two corners of the hut . 
unsaddled him with much attention , and spread upon the steed's weary back his own mantle . 
The knight returned him thanks for his courtesy and , this duty done , both resumed their seats by the table , whereon stood the trencher of pease placed between them . 
His close shaven crown , surrounded by a circle of stiff curled black hair , had something the appearance of a parish pinfold begirt by its high hedge . 
a visage , joined to the brawny form of the holy man , spoke rather of sirloins and haunches , than of pease and pulse . 
This incongruity did not escape the guest . 
'' Sir Knight , '' answered the hermit , your thoughts , like those of the ignorant laity , are according to the flesh . 
'' The hermit could scarcely forbear from smiling at his guest's reply . 
and refrain from mending thy cheer . 
Let us see the keeper's bounty , therefore , without delay . 
There was , however , as much of bold frankness in the knight's countenance as was possible to be expressed by features . 
His smile , too , had something in it irresistibly comic , and gave an assurance of faith and loyalty , with which his host could not refrain from sympathizing . 
After exchanging a mute glance or two , the hermit went to the further side of the hut , and opened a hutch , which was concealed with great care and some ingenuity . 
Out of the recesses of a dark closet , into which this aperture gave admittance , he brought a large pasty , baked in a pewter platter of unusual dimensions . 
This mighty dish he placed before his guest , who , using his poniard to cut it open , lost no time in making himself acquainted with its contents . 
About two months , '' answered the father hastily . 
Far be it from me to suspect so holy a man of aught inhospitable nevertheless I will be highly bound to you would you comply with this Eastern custom . 
'' To ease your unnecessary scruples , Sir Knight , I will for once depart from my rule , '' replied the hermit . 
And as there were no forks in those days , his clutches were instantly in the bowels of the pasty . 
'' The hermit only replied by a grin and returning to the hutch , he produced a leathern bottle , which might contain about four quarts . 
He also brought forth two large drinking cups , made out of the horn of the urus , and hooped with silver . 
Drink hael , Holy Clerk of Copmanhurst ! '' answered the warrior , and did his host reason in a similar brimmer . 
At least , were I as thou , I should find myself both disport and plenty out of the king's deer . 
There is many a goodly herd in these forests , and a buck will never be missed that goes to the use of Saint Dunstan's chaplain . 
'' Sir Sluggish Knight , '' replied the Clerk , these are dangerous words , and I pray you to forbear them . 
Credit me , it is better to enjoy the good which God sends thee , than to be impertinently curious how it comes . 
As for thy threats , know , holy man , thou speakest to one whose trade it is to find out danger wherever it is to be met with . 
'' Sir Sluggish Knight , I drink to thee , '' said the hermit respecting thy valour much , but deeming wondrous slightly of thy discretion . 
'' The knight pledged him , and desired him to name his weapons . 
A harp , and other matters of a very uncanonical appearance , were also visible when this dark recess was opened . 
I promise thee , brother Clerk , '' said he , I will ask thee no more offensive questions . 
on which I would more gladly prove my skill with thee , than at the sword and buckler . 
'' I hope , Sir Knight , '' said the hermit , thou hast given no good reason for thy surname of the Sluggard . 
I do promise thee I suspect thee grievously . 
Nevertheless , thou art my guest , and I will not put thy manhood to the proof without thine own free will . 
Sit thee down , then , and fill thy cup let us drink , sing , and be merry . 
If thou knowest ever a good lay , thou shalt be welcome to a nook of pasty at Copmanhurst so long as I serve the chapel of St . 
Dunstan , which , please God , shall be till I change my grey covering for one of green turf . 
But come , fill a flagon , for it will crave some time to tune the harp and nought pitches the voice and sharpens the ear like a cup of wine . 
For my part , I love to feel the grape at my very finger ends before they make the harp strings tinkle . 
Methinks , holy father , '' said he , the instrument wants one string , and the rest have been somewhat misused . 
'' Ay , mark'st thou that ? '' replied the hermit that shows thee a master of the craft . 
'' So saying , he took off his cup with much gravity , at the same time shaking his head at the intemperance of the Scottish harper . 
A ballad , a ballad , '' said the hermit , against all the ocs and ouis of France . 
'' I will assay , then , '' said the knight , a ballad composed by a Saxon glee man , whom I knew in Holy Land . 
'' It speedily appeared , that if the knight was not a complete master of the minstrel art , his taste for it had at least been cultivated under the best instructors . 
High deeds achieved of knightly fame , From Palestine the champion came The cross upon his shoulders borne , Battle and blast had dimm'd and torn . 
Each dint upon his batter'd shield Was token of a foughten field And thus , beneath his lady's bower , He sung as fell the twilight hour . 
Note well her smile ! it edged the blade Which fifty wives to widows made , When , vain his strength and Mahound's spell , Iconium's turban'd Soldan fell . 
Inured to Syria's glowing breath , I feel the north breeze chill as death Let grateful love quell maiden shame , And grant him bliss who brings thee fame . 
'' During this performance , the hermit demeaned himself much like a first rate critic of the present day at a new opera . 
When the song was ended , the anchorite emphatically declared it a good one , and well sung . 
And yet , '' said he , I think my Saxon countrymen had herded long enough with the Normans , to fall into the tone of their melancholy ditties . 
qualified his flagon from the water pitcher . 
Every thing should be put to its proper use in this world . 
St Dunstan knew , as well as any one , the prerogatives of a jovial friar . 
By my troth , '' said the knight , thou hast sung well and lustily , and in high praise of thine order . 
Exceptis excipiendis , '' replied the hermit , as our old abbot taught me to say , when impertinent laymen should ask me if I kept every punctilio of mine order . 
'' True , holy father , '' said the knight but the devil is apt to keep an eye on such exceptions he goes about , thou knowest , like a roaring lion . 
'' Let him roar here if he dares , '' said the friar a touch of my cord will make him roar as loud as the tongs of St Dunstan himself did . 
I never feared man , and I as little fear the devil and his imps . 
But to let you into a secret , I never speak upon such subjects , my friend , until after morning vespers . 
He could not bring himself to acknowledge , in presence of such an assembly , the son whom he had renounced and disinherited . 
Oswald , however , was anticipated in this good office . 
The crowd dispersed , indeed , but the knight was nowhere to be seen . 
Oswald deemed it his duty to secure Gurth , as a fugitive of whose fate his master was to judge . 
The Saxon had been under very intense and agonizing apprehensions concerning his son for Nature had asserted her rights , in spite of the patriotic stoicism which laboured to disown her . 
Let him wander his way , '' said he let those leech his wounds for whose sake he encountered them . 
Thither will I go , were it only to show these proud Normans how little the fate of a son , who could defeat their bravest , can affect a Saxon . 
'' Thither , '' said Rowena , do I not go and I pray you to beware , lest what you mean for courage and constancy , shall be accounted hardness of heart . 
I seek the noble Athelstane , and with him attend the banquet of John of Anjou . 
'' He went accordingly to the banquet , of which we have already mentioned the principal events . 
The noble Saxon had returned from the banquet , as we have seen , in no very placid humour , and wanted but a pretext for wreaking his anger upon some one . 
'' To horse , and forward ! '' said Cedric . 
L. T. will be altogether spoiled . 
'' The travellers , however , used such speed as to reach the convent of St Withold's before the apprehended evil took place . 
I like not that music , father Cedric , '' said Athelstane for by this title of respect he was accustomed to address him . 
Nor I either , uncle , '' said Wamba I greatly fear we shall have to pay the piper . 
had made a favourable impression , in my mind we had better turn back , and abide with the Abbot until the afternoon . 
It is unlucky to travel where your path is crossed by a monk , a hare , or a howling dog , until you have eaten your next meal . 
'' Away ! '' said Cedric , impatiently the day is already too short for our journey . 
For the dog , I know it to be the cur of the runaway slave Gurth , a useless fugitive like its master . 
The javelin inflicted a wound upon the animal's shoulder , and narrowly missed pinning him to the earth and Fangs fled howling from the presence of the enraged thane . 
Gurth's heart swelled within him for he felt this meditated slaughter of his faithful adherent in a degree much deeper than the harsh treatment he had himself received . 
'' Wamba did him the service he required , and they rode side by side for some time , during which Gurth maintained a moody silence . 
At length he could repress his feelings no longer . 
Friend Wamba , '' said he , of all those who are fools enough to serve Cedric , thou alone hast dexterity enough to make thy folly acceptable to him . 
Go to him , therefore , and tell him that neither for love nor fear will Gurth serve him longer . 
He may strike the head from me he may scourge me he may load me with irons but henceforth he shall never compel me either to love or to obey him . 
Go to him , then , and tell him that Gurth the son of Beowulph renounces his service . 
'' Assuredly , '' said Wamba , fool as I am , I shall not do your fool's errand . 
Cedric hath another javelin stuck into his girdle , and thou knowest he does not always miss his mark . 
'' I care not , '' replied Gurth , how soon he makes a mark of me . 
Yesterday he left Wilfred , my young master , in his blood . 
To day he has striven to kill before my face the only other living creature that ever showed me kindness . 
On this subject Cedric was all animation . 
The restoration of the independence of his race was the idol of his heart , to which he had willingly sacrificed domestic happiness and the interests of his own son . 
But , in order to achieve this great revolution in favour of the native English , it was necessary that they should be united among themselves , and act under an acknowledged head . 
Above all , he was known to be liberal and hospitable , and believed to be good natured . 
It was in vain that he attempted to dazzle her with the prospect of a visionary throne . 
Rowena , who possessed strong sense , neither considered his plan as practicable , nor as desirable , so far as she was concerned , could it have been achieved . 
The sudden and romantic appearance of his son in the lists at Ashby , he had justly regarded as almost a death's blow to his hopes . 
But his petty vanity was sufficiently gratified by receiving this homage at the hands of his immediate attendants , and of the Saxons who approached him . 
Are close at hand , and mean to pass the night Within the castle . 
It may be added , that in travelling thus late through the forest , Cedric and Athelstane relied on their descent and character , as well as their courage . 
was at length able to explain , that he had hired a body guard of six men at Ashby , together with mules for carrying the litter of a sick friend . 
This party had undertaken to escort him as far as Doncaster . 
'' Cedric did not assent to the severe proposal of his companion . 
We shall do better , '' said be , to leave them two of our attendants and two horses to convey them back to the next village . 
'' Rowena , somewhat alarmed by the mention of outlaws in force , and so near them , strongly seconded the proposal of her guardian . 
It is not for myself that I pray this favour , '' said Rebecca nor is it even for that poor old man . 
For , if evil chance him , the last moment of your life would be embittered with regret for denying that which I ask of you . 
'' The noble and solemn air with which Rebecca made this appeal , gave it double weight with the fair Saxon . 
Let them unload two of the sumpter mules , and put the baggage behind two of the serfs . 
The mules may transport the litter , and we have led horses for the old man and his daughter . 
'' I have left my shield in the tilt yard , '' answered the Jester , as has been the fate of many a better knight than myself . 
It were not fit I should do so , '' answered Rebecca , with proud humility , where my society might be held a disgrace to my protectress . 
'' By this time the change of baggage was hastily achieved for the single word outlaws'' rendered every one sufficiently alert , and the approach of twilight made the sound yet more impressive . 
Amid the bustle , Gurth was taken from horseback , in the course of which removal he prevailed upon the Jester to slack the cord with which his arms were bound . 
Both the Saxon chiefs were made prisoners at the same moment , and each under circumstances expressive of his character . 
He was instantly made prisoner , and pulled from his horse by two or three of the banditti who crowded around him . 
Athelstane shared his captivity , his bridle having been seized , and he himself forcibly dismounted , long before he could draw his weapon , or assume any posture of effectual defence . 
Of all the train none escaped except Wamba , who showed upon the occasion much more courage than those who pretended to greater sense . 
Finding himself overpowered , the Jester at length threw himself from his horse , plunged into the thicket , and , favoured by the general confusion , escaped from the scene of action . 
Gurth ! '' answered Wamba , with the same caution , and the swineherd immediately stood before him . 
'' Who are prisoners ? '' exclaimed Gurth , impatiently . 
My lord , and my lady , and Athelstane , and Hundibert , and Oswald . 
And they are prisoners to green cassocks , and black visors . 
And they lie all tumbled about on the green , like the crab apples that you shake down to your swine . 
And I would laugh at it , '' said the honest Jester , if I could for weeping . 
'' And he shed tears of unfeigned sorrow . 
'' But you have renounced his service but now , '' said Wamba . 
Obey me , and it shall be the better for you and your masters . 
Yet stay , I must render myself as like these men as possible . 
'' Let him be the devil , '' said Gurth , an he will . 
We can be no worse of waiting his return . 
If he belong to that party , he must already have given them the alarm , and it will avail nothing either to fight or fly . 
Besides , I have late experience , that errant thieves are not the worst men in the world to have to deal with . 
'' The yeoman returned in the course of a few minutes . 
Friend Gurth , '' he said , I have mingled among yon men , and have learnt to whom they belong , and whither they are bound . 
There is , I think , no chance that they will proceed to any actual violence against their prisoners . 
He shall not want English hands to help him in this extremity . 
Come then with me , until I gather more aid . 
'' So saying , he walked through the wood at a great pace , followed by the jester and the swineherd . 
It was not consistent with Wamba's humour to travel long in silence . 
'' Our heads are in the lion's mouth , '' said Wamba , in a whisper to Gurth , get them out how we can . 
'' Hush be silent , '' said Gurth . 
Offend him not by thy folly , and I trust sincerely that all will go well . 
The Hermit of St Clement's Well . 
Beneath this tree four or five yeomen lay stretched on the ground , while another , as sentinel , walked to and fro in the moonlight shade . 
Upon hearing the sound of feet approaching , the watch instantly gave the alarm , and the sleepers as suddenly started up and bent their bows . 
Where is the Miller ? '' was his first question . 
On the road towards Rotherham . 
'' With how many ? '' demanded the leader , for such he seemed to be . 
With six men , and good hope of booty , if it please St . 
'' Devoutly spoken , '' said Locksley and where is Allan a dale ? '' Walked up towards the Watling street , to watch for the Prior of Jorvaulx . 
'' That is well thought on also , '' replied the Captain and where is the Friar ? '' In his cell . 
'' Thither will I go , '' said Locksley . 
Disperse and seek your companions . 
Collect what force you can , for there's game afoot that must be hunted hard , and will turn to bay . 
Meet me here by daybreak . 
Keep a close watch on them therefore and dispatch one of your comrades , the lightest of foot , to bring the news of the yeomen thereabout . 
'' They promised implicit obedience , and departed with alacrity on their different errands . 
'' Now , that is not ill sung , '' said Wamba , who had thrown in a few of his own flourishes to help out the chorus . 
Men say that the keeper has complained to his official , and that he will be stripped of his cowl and cope altogether , if he keeps not better order . 
'' While they were thus speaking , Locksley's loud and repeated knocks had at length disturbed the anchorite and his guest . 
By my beads , '' said the hermit , stopping short in a grand flourish , here come more benighted guests . 
I would not for my cowl that they found us in this goodly exercise . 
'' Base calumniators ! '' replied the knight I would I had the chastising of them . 
What devil's matins are you after at this hour ? '' said a voice from without . 
'' Mad priest , '' answered the voice from without , open to Locksley ! '' All's safe all's right , '' said the hermit to his companion . 
But who is he ? '' said the Black Knight it imports me much to know . 
'' Who is he ? '' answered the hermit I tell thee he is a friend . 
What friend ? why , he is , now that I bethink me a little , the very same honest keeper I told thee of a while since . 
'' Ay , as honest a keeper as thou art a pious hermit , '' replied the knight , I doubt it not . 
But undo the door to him before he beat it from its hinges . 
The hermit speedily unbolted his portal , and admitted Locksley , with his two companions . 
'' He is a monk of the church militant , I think , '' answered Locksley and there be more of them abroad . 
I tell thee , friar , thou must lay down the rosary and take up the quarter staff we shall need every one of our merry men , whether clerk or layman . 
'' And what is his name , then ? '' demanded Locksley . 
'' Good yeoman , '' said the knight , coming forward , be not wroth with my merry host . 
He did but afford me the hospitality which I would have compelled from him if he had refused it . 
I pray thee truss my points , '' said he to Wamba , and thou shalt have a cup of sack for thy labour . 
'' Amen ! '' answered the Jester a broadcloth penitent should have a sackcloth confessor , and your frock may absolve my motley doublet into the bargain . 
'' So saying , he accommodated the friar with his assistance in tying the endless number of points , as the laces which attached the hose to the doublet were then termed . 
'' And what follows if you guess truly , good yeoman ? '' replied the knight . 
I should in that case hold you , '' replied the yeoman , a friend to the weaker party . 
'' Such is the duty of a true knight at least , '' replied the Black Champion and I would not willingly that there were reason to think otherwise of me . 
'' You can speak to no one , '' replied the knight , to whom England , and the life of every Englishman , can be dearer than to me . 
'' I would willingly believe so , '' said the woodsman , for never had this country such need to be supported by those who love her . 
Hear me , and I will tell thee of an enterprise , in which , if thou best really that which thou seemest , thou mayst take an honourable part . 
Believe , however , that my word , when pledged , is as inviolate as if I wore golden spurs . 
'' I willingly believe it , '' said the knight I have been accustomed to study men's countenances , and I can read in thine honesty and resolution . 
'' The friar was now completely accoutred as a yeoman , with sword and buckler , bow , and quiver , and a strong partisan over his shoulder . 
He left his cell at the head of the party , and , having carefully locked the door , deposited the key under the threshold . 
When didst thou drink as deep a drought of water before , Holy Clerk of Copmanhurst ? '' said the Black Knight . 
'' Then plunging his hands and head into the fountain , he washed from them all marks of the midnight revel . 
'' Swearest thou , Holy Clerk ? '' said the Black Knight . 
And for thief , '' said the priest , I doubt if ever he were even half so honest a man as many a thief of my acquaintance . 
But darkness came on fast , and the paths of the wood seemed but imperfectly known to the marauders . 
They were compelled to make several long halts , and once or twice to return on their road to resume the direction which they wished to pursue . 
The summer morn had dawned upon them ere they could travel in full assurance that they held the right path . 
But confidence returned with light , and the cavalcade now moved rapidly forward . 
Meanwhile , the following dialogue took place between the two leaders of the banditti . 
It is time thou shouldst leave us , Sir Maurice , '' said the Templar to De Bracy , in order to prepare the second part of thy mystery . 
Thou art next , thou knowest , to act the Knight Deliverer . 
'' I have thought better of it , '' said De Bracy I will not leave thee till the prize is fairly deposited in Front de B oe uf's castle . 
'' And what has made thee change thy plan , De Bracy ? '' replied the Knight Templar . 
That concerns thee nothing , '' answered his companion . 
'' Or the leader of a Free Company , '' answered the Templar , from dreading at the hands of a comrade and friend , the injustice he does to all mankind . 
'' Psha , '' replied the Templar , what hast thou to fear ? Thou knowest the vows of our order . 
'' Right well , '' said De Bracy , and also how they are kept . 
Come , Sir Templar , the laws of gallantry have a liberal interpretation in Palestine , and this is a case in which I will trust nothing to your conscience . 
'' Hear the truth , then , '' said the Templar I care not for your blue eyed beauty . 
There is in that train one who will make me a better mate . 
'' What ! wouldst thou stoop to the waiting damsel ? '' said De Bracy . 
No , Sir Knight , '' said the Templar , haughtily . 
To the waiting woman will I not stoop . 
I have a prize among the captives as lovely as thine own . 
'' By the mass , thou meanest the fair Jewess ! '' said De Bracy . 
'' For my vow , '' said the Templar , our Grand Master hath granted me a dispensation . 
'' Thou knowest best thine own privileges , '' said De Bracy . 
Yet , I would have sworn thy thought had been more on the old usurer's money bags , than on the black eyes of the daughter . 
'' I can admire both , '' answered the Templar besides , the old Jew is but half prize . 
I must share his spoils with Front de B oe uf , who will not lend us the use of his castle for nothing . 
I must have something that I can term exclusively my own by this foray of ours , and I have fixed on the lovely Jewess as my peculiar prize . 
But , now thou knowest my drift , thou wilt resume thine own original plan , wilt thou not ? Thou hast nothing , thou seest , to fear from my interference . 
'' No , '' replied De Bracy , I will remain beside my prize . 
What thou sayst is passing true , but I like not the privileges acquired by the dispensation of the Grand Master , and the merit acquired by the slaughter of three hundred Saracens . 
You have too good a right to a free pardon , to render you very scrupulous about peccadilloes . 
'' While this dialogue was proceeding , Cedric was endeavouring to wring out of those who guarded him an avowal of their character and purpose . 
You should be Englishmen , '' said he and yet , sacred Heaven ! you prey upon your countrymen as if you were very Normans . 
Around the exterior wall was a deep moat , supplied with water from a neighbouring rivulet . 
The access , as usual in castles of the period , lay through an arched barbican , or outwork , which was terminated and defended by a small turret at each corner . 
If the Saxon Cedric cannot rescue England , he is willing to die for her . 
Tell your tyrannical master , I do only beseech him to dismiss the Lady Rowena in honour and safety . 
She is a woman , and he need not dread her and with us will die all who dare fight in her cause . 
'' The attendants remained as mute to this address as to the former , and they now stood before the gate of the castle . 
The Lady Rowena was next separated from her train , and conducted , with courtesy , indeed , but still without consulting her inclination , to a distant apartment . 
Base unbeliever , '' answered one of his guards , when thou hast seen thy lair , thou wilt not wish thy daughter to partake it . 
'' And , without farther discussion , the old Jew was forcibly dragged off in a different direction from the other prisoners . 
It was in this hall that Harold returned the magnanimous answer to the ambassador of his rebel brother . 
Oft have I heard my father kindle as he told the tale . 
The envoy of Tosti was admitted , when this ample room could scarce contain the crowd of noble Saxon leaders , who were quaffing the blood red wine around their monarch . 
'' Cedric went on with his story without noticing this interjectional observation of his friend . 
The hall rung with acclamations , and cup and horn was filled to the Norwegian , who should be speedily in possession of his English territory . 
'' I could have pledged him with all my soul , '' said Athelstane , for my tongue cleaves to my palate . 
It was then that the distant towers of York , and the bloody streams of the Derwent , beheld that direful Note D. Battle of Stamford . 
conflict , in which , after displaying the most undaunted valour , the King of Norway , and Tosti , both fell , with ten thousand of their bravest followers . 
Look up at the window , noble Cedric , and judge by the sunbeams if it is not on the verge of noon . 
'' It may be so , '' answered Cedric but I cannot look on that stained lattice without its awakening other reflections than those which concern the passing moment , or its privations . 
The foreigner came here poor , beggarly , cringing , and subservient , ready to doff his cap to the meanest native of the household . 
The persons who attended on the feast were masked and cloaked . 
Tell him that we yield to his rapacity , as in similar circumstances we should do to that of a literal robber . 
Let him name the ransom at which he rates our liberty , and it shall be paid , providing the exaction is suited to our means . 
'' The sewer made no answer , but bowed his head . 
'' I shall deliver to the knight your defiance , '' answered the sewer meanwhile I leave you to your food . 
The captives had not long enjoyed their refreshment , however , ere their attention was disturbed even from this most serious occupation by the blast of a horn winded before the gate . 
The Saxons started from the table , and hastened to the window . 
But their curiosity was disappointed for these outlets only looked upon the court of the castle , and the sound came from beyond its precincts . 
The summons , however , seemed of importance , for a considerable degree of bustle instantly took place in the castle . 
CHAPTER XXII My daughter O my ducats O my daughter ! O my Christian ducats ! Justice the Law my ducats , and my daughter ! Merchant of Venice . 
The only light was received through one or two loop holes far above the reach of the captive's hand . 
At one end of this ghastly apartment was a large fire grate , over the top of which were stretched some transverse iron bars , half devoured with rust . 
The lovers of the chase say that the hare feels more agony during the pursuit of the greyhounds , than when she is struggling in their fangs . 
And thus it is probable , that Nota Bene . 
We by no means warrant the accuracy of this piece of natural history , which we give on the authority of the Wardour MS . 
Neither was it the first time that Isaac had been placed in circumstances so dangerous . 
He had therefore experience to guide him , as well as hope , that he might again , as formerly , be delivered as a prey from the fowler . 
The Jew remained , without altering his position , for nearly three hours , at the expiry of which steps were heard on the dungeon stair . 
This formidable baron was clad in a leathern doublet , fitted close to his body , which was frayed and soiled with the stains of his armour . 
He had no weapon , excepting a poniard at his belt , which served to counterbalance the weight of the bunch of rusty keys that hung at his right side . 
It seemed indeed as if the sullen and malignant eye of Front de B oe uf possessed some portion of that supposed power over his unfortunate prisoner . 
The motions of these men were slow and solemn , as if there impended over their souls some preconception of horror and of cruelty . 
Front de B oe uf himself opened the scene by thus addressing his ill fated captive . 
In these very scales shalt thou weigh me out , '' said the relentless Baron , a thousand silver pounds , after the just measure and weight of the Tower of London . 
'' I am reasonable , '' answered Front de B oe uf , and if silver be scant , I refuse not gold . 
At the rate of a mark of gold for each six pounds of silver , thou shalt free thy unbelieving carcass from such punishment as thy heart has never even conceived . 
'' Have mercy on me , noble knight ! '' exclaimed Isaac I am old , and poor , and helpless . 
It were unworthy to triumph over me It is a poor deed to crush a worm . 
Think not I speak to thee only to excite thy terror , and practise on the base cowardice thou hast derived from thy tribe . 
This dungeon is no place for trifling . 
The Saracens produced from their baskets a quantity of charcoal , a pair of bellows , and a flask of oil . 
on that warm couch thou shalt lie , stripped of thy clothes as if thou wert to rest on a bed of down . 
One of these slaves shall maintain the fire beneath thee , while the other shall anoint thy wretched limbs with oil , lest the roast should burn . 
Now , choose betwixt such a scorching bed and the payment of a thousand pounds of silver for , by the head of my father , thou hast no other option . 
Thy cunning may soon swell out once more thy shrivelled purse , but neither leech nor medicine can restore thy scorched hide and flesh wert thou once stretched on these bars . 
Tell down thy ransom , I say , and rejoice that at such rate thou canst redeem thee from a dungeon , the secrets of which few have returned to tell . 
I waste no more words with thee choose between thy dross and thy flesh and blood , and as thou choosest , so shall it be . 
The Jew then looked at the glowing furnace , over which he was presently to be stretched , and seeing no chance of his tormentor's relenting , his resolution gave way . 
This is my treasure chamber . 
Here I have thee at advantage , nor will I again deign to repeat the terms on which I grant thee liberty . 
'' The Jew groaned deeply . 
Grant me , '' he said , at least with my own liberty , that of the companions with whom I travel . 
'' If thou meanest yonder Saxon churls , '' said Front de B oe uf , their ransom will depend upon other terms than thine . 
Mind thine own concerns , Jew , I warn thee , and meddle not with those of others . 
But Front de B oe uf only laughed , and himself filled up the blank at which the Jew had hesitated . 
At the expense of my conscience , thou wouldst say , Isaac speak it out I tell thee , I am reasonable . 
I can bear the reproaches of a loser , even when that loser is a Jew . 
Thou wert not so patient , Isaac , when thou didst invoke justice against Jacques Fitzdotterel , for calling thee a usurious blood sucker , when thy exactions had devoured his patrimony . 
'' I swear by the Talmud , '' said the Jew , that your valour has been misled in that matter . 
Fitzdotterel drew his poniard upon me in mine own chamber , because I craved him for mine own silver . 
The term of payment was due at the Passover . 
'' Thy daughter ! '' said Front de B oe uf , as if surprised , By heavens , Isaac , I would I had known of this . 
'' The yell which Isaac raised at this unfeeling communication made the very vault to ring , and astounded the two Saracens so much that they let go their hold of the Jew . 
He availed himself of his enlargement to throw himself on the pavement , and clasp the knees of Front de B oe uf . 
I thought your race had loved nothing save their moneybags . 
My daughter is my flesh and blood , dearer to me a thousand times than those limbs which thy cruelty threatens . 
The tapestry hung down from the walls in many places , and in others was tarnished and faded under the effects of the sun , or tattered and decayed by age . 
The interval had not entirely been bestowed in holding council with his confederates , for De Bracy had found leisure to decorate his person with all the foppery of the times . 
His green cassock and vizard were now flung aside . 
His long luxuriant hair was trained to flow in quaint tresses down his richly furred cloak . 
He saluted Rowena by doffing his velvet bonnet , garnished with a golden broach , representing St Michael trampling down the Prince of Evil . 
'' I pray you , Sir Knight , '' said Rowena , to cease a language so commonly used by strolling minstrels , that it becomes not the mouth of knights or nobles . 
Certes , you constrain me to sit down , since you enter upon such commonplace terms , of which each vile crowder hath a stock that might last from hence to Christmas . 
'' Proud damsel , '' said De Bracy , incensed at finding his gallant style procured him nothing but contempt proud damsel , thou shalt be as proudly encountered . 
Know then , that I have supported my pretensions to your hand in the way that best suited thy character . 
It is meeter for thy humour to be wooed with bow and bill , than in set terms , and in courtly language . 
'' Courtesy of tongue , '' said Rowena , when it is used to veil churlishness of deed , is but a knight's girdle around the breast of a base clown . 
Thou art proud , Rowena , and thou art the fitter to be my wife . 
'' I guess your meaning , lady , '' said De Bracy , though you may think it lies too obscure for my apprehension . 
Another suitor might feel jealousy while he touched this string but my firm purpose cannot be changed by a passion so childish and so hopeless . 
'' Wilfred here ? '' said Rowena , in disdain that is as true as that Front de B oe uf is his rival . 
'' De Bracy looked at her steadily for an instant . 
'' Save him , for the love of Heaven ! '' said Rowena , her firmness giving way under terror for her lover's impending fate . 
I am not romantic fool enough to further the fortune , or avert the fate , of one who is likely to be a successful obstacle between me and my wishes . 
Use thine influence with me in his behalf , and he is safe , refuse to employ it , Wilfred dies , and thou thyself art not the nearer to freedom . 
'' Thy language , '' answered Rowena , hath in its indifferent bluntness something which cannot be reconciled with the horrors it seems to express . 
I believe not that thy purpose is so wicked , or thy power so great . 
'' Flatter thyself , then , with that belief , '' said De Bracy , until time shall prove it false . 
Thy lover lies wounded in this castle thy preferred lover . 
He is a bar betwixt Front de B oe uf and that which Front de B oe uf loves better than either ambition or beauty . 
'' Hitherto , Rowena had sustained her part in this trying scene with undismayed courage , but it was because she had not considered the danger as serious and imminent . 
give way before her wishes , she had acquired that sort of courage and self confidence which arises from the habitual and constant deference of the circle in which we move . 
She could scarce conceive the possibility of her will being opposed , far less that of its being treated with total disregard . 
It was impossible to see so beautiful a creature in such extremity without feeling for her , and De Bracy was not unmoved , though he was yet more embarrassed than touched . 
He had , in truth , gone too far to recede and yet , in Rowena's present condition , she could not be acted on either by argument or threats . 
He paced the apartment to and fro , now vainly exhorting the terrified maiden to compose herself , now hesitating concerning his own line of conduct . 
I cannot look on so fair a face while it is disturbed with agony , or on those eyes when they are drowned in tears . 
They suffocated some in mud , and suspended others by the feet , or the head , or the thumbs , kindling fires below them . 
They squeezed the heads of some with knotted cords till they pierced their brains , while they threw others into dungeons swarming with serpents , snakes , and toads . 
'' But it would be cruel to put the reader to the pain of perusing the remainder of this description . 
This excuse she stated before a great council of the clergy of England , as the sole reason for her having taken the religious habit . 
CHAPTER XXIV I'll woo her as the lion woos his bride . 
While the scenes we have described were passing in other parts of the castle , the Jewess Rebecca awaited her fate in a distant and sequestered turret . 
Thou must up and away , old house cricket , '' said one of the men our noble master commands it Thou must e'en leave this chamber to a fairer guest . 
'' Ay , '' grumbled the hag , even thus is service requited . 
'' Good Dame Urfried , '' said the other man , stand not to reason on it , but up and away . 
Lords' hests must be listened to with a quick ear . 
Thou hast had thy day , old dame , but thy sun has long been set . 
Thou wilt have owls for thy neighbours , fair one and their screams will be heard as far , and as much regarded , as thine own . 
Thou needst say no more , '' replied Urfried men know a fox by the train , and a Jewess by her tongue . 
'' Thy life , minion ? '' answered the sibyl what would taking thy life pleasure them ? Trust me , thy life is in no peril . 
Such usage shalt thou have as was once thought good enough for a noble Saxon maiden . 
Fare thee well , Jewess ! Jew or Gentile , thy fate would be the same for thou hast to do with them that have neither scruple nor pity . 
Fare thee well , I say . 
My thread is spun out thy task is yet to begin . 
'' Stay ! stay ! for Heaven's sake ! '' said Rebecca stay , though it be to curse and to revile me thy presence is yet some protection . 
'' The presence of the mother of God were no protection , '' answered the old woman . 
There she stands , '' pointing to a rude image of the Virgin Mary , see if she can avert the fate that awaits thee . 
'' She left the room as she spoke , her features writhed into a sort of sneering laugh , which made them seem even more hideous than their habitual frown . 
She locked the door behind her , and Rebecca might hear her curse every step for its steepness , as slowly and with difficulty she descended the turret stair . 
Like Damocles at his celebrated banquet , Rebecca perpetually beheld , amid that gorgeous display , the sword which was suspended over the heads of her people by a single hair . 
These reflections had tamed and brought down to a pitch of sounder judgment a temper , which , under other circumstances , might have waxed haughty , supercilious , and obstinate . 
From her father's example and injunctions , Rebecca had learnt to bear herself courteously towards all who approached her . 
Thus prepared to expect adverse circumstances , she had acquired the firmness necessary for acting under them . 
Her present situation required all her presence of mind , and she summoned it up accordingly . 
Her first care was to inspect the apartment but it afforded few hopes either of escape or protection . 
The door had no inside bolt or bar . 
There was therefore no hope but in passive fortitude , and in that strong reliance on Heaven natural to great and generous characters . 
In the meanwhile , all around her showed that their present state was that of punishment and probation , and that it was their especial duty to suffer without sinning . 
She had already unclasped two costly bracelets and a collar , which she hastened to proffer to the supposed outlaw , concluding naturally that to gratify his avarice was to bespeak his favour . 
'' Do not do yourself such wrong , '' said Rebecca take ransom , and have mercy ! Gold will purchase you pleasure , to misuse us , could only bring thee remorse . 
The venerable Isaac is subjected to an alembic , which will distil from him all he holds dear , without any assistance from my requests or thy entreaty . 
The ransom must be paid by love and beauty , and in no other coin will I accept it . 
'' Thou art no outlaw , '' said Rebecca , in the same language in which he addressed her no outlaw had refused such offers . 
No outlaw in this land uses the dialect in which thou hast spoken . 
I am not an outlaw , then , fair rose of Sharon . 
And I am one who will be more prompt to hang thy neck and arms with pearls and diamonds , which so well become them , than to deprive thee of these ornaments . 
'' What wouldst thou have of me , '' said Rebecca , if not my wealth ? We can have nought in common between us you are a Christian I am a Jewess . 
Our union were contrary to the laws , alike of the church and the synagogue . 
It is against my vow to love any maiden , otherwise than par amours , as I will love thee . 
Behold the cross of my Holy Order . 
Marriage were an enduring crime on the part of a Templar but what lesser folly I may practise , I shall speedily be absolved from at the next Perceptory of our Order . 
The protectors of Solomon's Temple may claim license by the example of Solomon . 
But I will proclaim thy villainy , Templar , from one end of Europe to the other . 
Those who tremble not at thy crime , will hold thee accursed for having so far dishonoured the cross thou wearest , as to follow a daughter of my people . 
One thing only can save thee , Rebecca . 
Unprepared for such a desperate effort , for she had hitherto stood perfectly motionless , Bois Guilbert had neither time to intercept nor to stop her . 
The Templar hesitated , and a resolution which had never yielded to pity or distress , gave way to his admiration of her fortitude . 
Come down , '' he said , rash girl ! I swear by earth , and sea , and sky , I will offer thee no offence . 
'' I will not trust thee , Templar , '' said Rebecca thou hast taught me better how to estimate the virtues of thine Order . 
The next Preceptory would grant thee absolution for an oath , the keeping of which concerned nought but the honour or the dishonour of a miserable Jewish maiden . 
Here , '' she said , I take my stand . 
Bois Guilbert , proud himself and high spirited , thought he had never beheld beauty so animated and so commanding . 
Let there be peace between us , Rebecca , '' he said . 
Peace , if thou wilt , '' answered Rebecca Peace but with this space between . 
'' Thou needst no longer fear me , '' said Bois Guilbert . 
It was woman that taught me cruelty , and on woman therefore I have exercised it but not upon such as thou . 
Hear me , Rebecca Never did knight take lance in his hand with a heart more devoted to the lady of his love than Brian de Bois Guilbert . 
At the feet of my Superior I have laid down the right of self action the privilege of independence . 
'' An evil recompense , '' said Rebecca , for the surrender of the rights which are dearest to humanity . 
And ambition ? it is a temptation which could disturb even the bliss of heaven itself . 
'' He paused a moment , and then added , Rebecca ! she who could prefer death to dishonour , must have a proud and a powerful soul . 
Mine thou must be ! Nay , start not , '' he added , it must be with thine own consent , and on thine own terms . 
Thou must consent to share with me hopes more extended than can be viewed from the throne of a monarch ! Hear me ere you answer and judge ere you refuse . 
Such a swelling flood is that powerful league . 
Of this mighty Order I am no mean member , but already one of the Chief Commanders , and may well aspire one day to hold the batoon of Grand Master . 
The poor soldiers of the Temple will not alone place their foot upon the necks of kings a hemp sandall'd monk can do that . 
Our mailed step shall ascend their throne our gauntlet shall wrench the sceptre from their gripe . 
Not the reign of your vainly expected Messiah offers such power to your dispersed tribes as my ambition may aim at . 
I have sought but a kindred spirit to share it , and I have found such in thee . 
'' Sayest thou this to one of my people ? '' answered Rebecca . 
Bethink thee '' Answer me not , '' said the Templar , by urging the difference of our creeds within our secret conclaves we hold these nursery tales in derision . 
Our Order soon adopted bolder and wider views , and found out a better indemnification for our sacrifices . 
But I will not further withdraw the veil of our mysteries . 
That bugle sound announces something which may require my presence . 
Think on what I have said . 
Farewell ! I do not say forgive me the violence I have threatened , for it was necessary to the display of thy character . 
Gold can be only known by the application of the touchstone . 
I will soon return , and hold further conference with thee . 
Another name glided into her petition it was that of the wounded Christian , whom fate had placed in the hands of bloodthirsty men , his avowed enemies . 
But the petition was already breathed , nor could all the narrow prejudices of her sect induce Rebecca to wish it recalled . 
CHAPTER XXV A damn'd cramp piece of penmanship as ever I saw in my life ! She Stoops to Conquer . 
When the Templar reached the hall of the castle , he found De Bracy already there . 
Your love suit , '' said De Bracy , hath , I suppose , been disturbed , like mine , by this obstreperous summons . 
But you have come later and more reluctantly , and therefore I presume your interview has proved more agreeable than mine . 
'' Has your suit , then , been unsuccessfully paid to the Saxon heiress ? '' said the Templar . 
By the bones of Thomas a Becket , '' answered De Bracy , the Lady Rowena must have heard that I cannot endure the sight of women's tears . 
'' Gramercy for the few drops of thy sprinkling , '' replied De Bracy but this damsel hath wept enough to extinguish a beacon light . 
Never was such wringing of hands and such overflowing of eyes , since the days of St Niobe , of whom Prior Aymer told us . 
A water fiend hath possessed the I wish the Prior had also informed them when Niobe was sainted . 
Probably during that enlightened period when Pan to Moses lent his pagan horn . 
'' L. T. fair Saxon . 
But where is Front de B oe uf ? That horn is sounded more and more clamorously . 
'' He is negotiating with the Jew , I suppose , '' replied De Bracy , coolly probably the howls of Isaac have drowned the blast of the bugle . 
But we will make the vassals call him . 
Let us see the cause of this cursed clamour , '' said Front de B oe uf here is a letter , and , if I mistake not , it is in Saxon . 
It may be magic spells for aught I know , '' said De Bracy , who possessed his full proportion of the ignorance which characterised the chivalry of the period . 
'' Give it me , '' said the Templar . 
We have that of the priestly character , that we have some knowledge to enlighten our valour . 
'' Jest ! '' said Front de B oe uf , I would gladly know who dares jest with me in such a matter ! Read it , Sir Brian . 
By St Luke , it is so set down , '' answered the Templar . 
Wherefore may God have you in his keeping . 
Under this respectable emblem stood a cross , stated to be the mark of Gurth , the son of Beowulph . 
Then was written , in rough bold characters , the words , Le Noir Faineant . 
And , to conclude the whole , an arrow , neatly enough drawn , was described as the mark of the yeoman Locksley . 
De Bracy was the first to break silence by an uncontrollable fit of laughter , wherein he was joined , though with more moderation , by the Templar . 
Front de B oe uf , on the contrary , seemed impatient of their ill timed jocularity . 
I give you plain warning , '' he said , fair sirs , that you had better consult how to bear yourselves under these circumstances , than give way to such misplaced merriment . 
'' By St Michael , '' answered Front de B oe uf , I would thou couldst stand the whole brunt of this adventure thyself , De Bracy . 
These fellows dared not have acted with such inconceivable impudence , had they not been supported by some strong bands . 
There are enough of outlaws in this forest to resent my protecting the deer . 
'' For shame , Sir Knight ! '' said the Templar . 
Let us summon our people , and sally forth upon them . 
One knight ay , one man at arms , were enough for twenty such peasants . 
'' Enough , and too much , '' said De Bracy I should only be ashamed to couch lance against them . 
Sally , saidst thou ? we have scarce men enough to defend the castle . 
The best of mine are at York so is all your band , De Bracy and we have scarcely twenty , besides the handful that were engaged in this mad business . 
These outlaws have indeed a daring captain but without machines , scaling ladders , and experienced leaders , my castle may defy them . 
'' Then send to York , and recall our people , '' said De Bracy . 
If they abide the shaking of my standard , or the sight of my Free Companions , I will give them credit for the boldest outlaws ever bent bow in green wood . 
'' And who shall bear such a message ? '' said Front de B oe uf they will beset every path , and rip the errand out of his bosom . 
He was the last man , I have heard her tell , who ever said aught to her , which man ought in courtesy to address to maid or matron . 
'' Go , search them out , Engelred , '' said Front de B oe uf and then , Sir Templar , thou shalt return an answer to this bold challenge . 
'' I would rather do it at the sword's point than at that of the pen , '' said Bois Guilbert but be it as you will . 
Wherefore , as above , we require you to send a priest to reconcile them to God , in doing which you shall render them the last earthly service . 
'' This letter being folded , was delivered to the squire , and by him to the messenger who waited without , as the answer to that which be had brought . 
Here Wamba and Gurth , with their allies the Black Knight and Locksley , and the jovial hermit , awaited with impatience an answer to their summons . 
Around , and at a distance from them , were seen many a bold yeoman , whose silvan dress and weatherbeaten countenances showed the ordinary nature of their occupation . 
More than two hundred had already assembled , and others were fast coming in . 
Those whom they obeyed as leaders were only distinguished from the others by a feather in the cap , their dress , arms , and equipments being in all other respects the same . 
Few of these were armed otherwise than with such rustic weapons as necessity sometimes converts to military purposes . 
It was to the leaders of this motley army that the letter of the Templar was now delivered . 
Reference was at first made to the chaplain for an exposition of its contents . 
'' He then gave the letter to Gurth , who shook his head gruffly , and passed it to Wamba . 
Execute the noble Cedric ! '' exclaimed Wamba by the rood , thou must be mistaken , Sir Knight . 
'' Not I , my worthy friend , '' replied the knight , I have explained the words as they are here set down . 
'' 'Tis but a contrivance to gain time , '' said Locksley they dare not do a deed for which I could exact a fearful penalty . 
'' I would , '' said the Black Knight , there were some one among us who could obtain admission into the castle , and discover how the case stands with the besieged . 
Methinks , as they require a confessor to be sent , this holy hermit might at once exercise his pious vocation , and procure us the information we desire . 
I see , '' said Wamba , after a short pause , that the fool must be still the fool , and put his neck in the venture which wise men shrink from . 
'' Hath he sense enough , thinkst thou ? '' said the Black Knight , addressing Gurth . 
I know not , '' said Gurth but if he hath not , it will be the first time he hath wanted wit to turn his folly to account . 
'' On with the frock , then , good fellow , '' quoth the Knight , and let thy master send us an account of their situation within the castle . 
Their numbers must be few , and it is five to one they may be accessible by a sudden and bold attack . 
Time wears away with thee . 
'' And , in the meantime , '' said Locksley , we will beset the place so closely , that not so much as a fly shall carry news from thence . 
'' Pax vobiscum , '' said Wamba , who was now muffled in his religious disguise . 
And so saying he imitated the solemn and stately deportment of a friar , and departed to execute his mission . 
CHAPTER XXVI The hottest horse will oft be cool , The dullest will show fire The friar will often play the fool , The fool will play the friar . 
'' With this threat he left his turret , and carried to the hall of the castle his unwonted intelligence , that a holy friar stood before the gate and demanded instant admission . 
Who and whence art thou , priest ? '' said he . 
quidam viator incidit in latrones , which thieves have sent me unto this castle in order to do my ghostly office on two persons condemned by your honourable justice . 
'' Tell me in plain terms what numbers there are , or , priest , thy cloak and cord will ill protect thee . 
'' What ! '' said the Templar , who came into the hall that moment , muster the wasps so thick here ? it is time to stifle such a mischievous brood . 
'' Then trust him not with thy purpose in words , '' answered the Templar . 
Let him carry a written order to De Bracy's company of Free Companions , to repair instantly to their master's aid . 
In the meantime , and that the shaveling may suspect nothing , permit him to go freely about his task of preparing these Saxon hogs for the slaughter house . 
'' It shall be so , '' said Front de B oe uf . 
And he forthwith appointed a domestic to conduct Wamba to the apartment where Cedric and Athelstane were confined . 
The impatience of Cedric had been rather enhanced than diminished by his confinement . 
'' Enter freely , '' answered Cedric to the supposed friar with what intent art thou come hither ? '' To bid you prepare yourselves for death , '' answered the Jester . 
It is impossible ! '' replied Cedric , starting . 
'' Let us then unto our holy gear , father , '' said Cedric . 
Wait yet a moment , good uncle , '' said the Jester , in his natural tone better look long before you leap in the dark . 
Had you taken a fool's advice formerly , you would not have been here at all . 
Take a fool's advice now , and you will not be here long . 
'' How mean'st thou , knave ? '' answered the Saxon . 
'' Leave thee in my stead ! '' said Cedric , astonished at the proposal why , they would hang thee , my poor knave . 
'' Well , Wamba , '' answered Cedric , for one thing will I grant thy request . 
And that is , if thou wilt make the exchange of garments with Lord Athelstane instead of me . 
'' No , by St Dunstan , '' answered Wamba there were little reason in that . 
Wherefore , good my master , either take my proffer yourself , or suffer me to leave this dungeon as free as I entered . 
'' Let the old tree wither , '' continued Cedric , so the stately hope of the forest be preserved . 
Save the noble Athelstane , my trusty Wamba ! it is the duty of each who has Saxon blood in his veins . 
Thou and I will abide together the utmost rage of our injurious oppressors , while he , free and safe , shall arouse the awakened spirits of our countrymen to avenge us . 
I am like John a Duck's mare , that will let no man mount her but John a Duck . 
I came to save my master , and if he will not consent basta I can but go away home again . 
Kind service cannot be chucked from hand to hand like a shuttlecock or stool ball . 
I'll hang for no man but my own born master . 
'' Go , then , noble Cedric , '' said Athelstane , neglect not this opportunity . 
Your presence without may encourage friends to our rescue your remaining here would ruin us all . 
'' And is there any prospect , then , of rescue from without ? '' said Cedric , looking to the Jester . 
Prospect , indeed ! '' echoed Wamba let me tell you , when you fill my cloak , you are wrapped in a general's cassock . 
Five hundred men are there without , and I was this morning one of the chief leaders . 
My fool's cap was a casque , and my bauble a truncheon . 
Well , we shall see what good they will make by exchanging a fool for a wise man . 
Truly , I fear they will lose in valour what they may gain in discretion . 
'' The last word came out with a sort of double expression , betwixt jest and earnest . 
The tears stood in Cedric's eyes . 
'' The exchange of dress was now accomplished , when a sudden doubt struck Cedric . 
I know no language , '' he said , but my own , and a few words of their mincing Norman . 
How shall I bear myself like a reverend brother ? '' The spell lies in two words , '' replied Wamba Pax vobiscum will answer all queries . 
If you go or come , eat or drink , bless or ban , Pax vobiscum carries you through it all . 
It is as useful to a friar as a broomstick to a witch , or a wand to a conjurer . 
'' If such prove the case , '' said the master , my religious orders are soon taken Pax vobiscum . 
I trust I shall remember the pass word . 
Noble Athelstane , farewell and farewell , my poor boy , whose heart might make amends for a weaker head I will save you , or return and die with you . 
'' Farewell , noble Cedric , '' said Athelstane remember it is the true part of a friar to accept refreshment , if you are offered any . 
'' Farewell , uncle , '' added Wamba and remember Pax vobiscum . 
'' Thus exhorted , Cedric sallied forth upon his expedition and it was not long ere he had occasion to try the force of that spell which his Jester had recommended as omnipotent . 
In a low arched and dusky passage , by which he endeavoured to work his way to the hall of the castle , he was interrupted by a female form . 
Pax vobiscum ! '' said the pseudo friar , and was endeavouring to hurry past , when a soft voice replied , Et vobis quaso , domine reverendissime , pro misericordia vestra . 
I am fresh from my holy office , and would avoid pollution . 
'' Come this way , father , '' said the old hag , thou art a stranger in this castle , and canst not leave it without a guide . 
Come hither , for I would speak with thee . 
Thou art a Saxon , father a Saxon , and , save as thou art a servant of God , a freeman . 
Thine accents are sweet in mine ear . 
'' Do not Saxon priests visit this castle , then ? '' replied Cedric it were , methinks , their duty to comfort the outcast and oppressed children of the soil . 
But thou art a Saxon a Saxon priest , and I have one question to ask of thee . 
'' I am a Saxon , '' answered Cedric , but unworthy , surely , of the name of priest . 
Let me begone on my way I swear I will return , or send one of our fathers more worthy to hear your confession . 
But wine must give me strength to tell the horrors of my tale . 
'' She poured out a cup , and drank it with a frightful avidity , which seemed desirous of draining the last drop in the goblet . 
'' Cedric would have avoided pledging her in this ominous conviviality , but the sign which she made to him expressed impatience and despair . 
He complied with her request , and answered her challenge in a large wine cup she then proceeded with her story , as if appeased by his complaisance . 
I was not born , '' she said , father , the wretch that thou now seest me . 
I was free , was happy , was honoured , loved , and was beloved . 
'' Wretched woman ! '' exclaimed Cedric . 
Seek to prayer and penance , and mayest thou find acceptance ! But I cannot , I will not , longer abide with thee . 
'' And be it so , '' said Cedric and let him tear me with beak and talons , ere my tongue say one word which my heart doth not warrant . 
Their force has long passed away Age has no pleasures , wrinkles have no influence , revenge itself dies away in impotent curses . 
Begone , I pray thee follow thine own fate , and leave me to mine . 
'' As she thus spoke , she vanished through a private door , and Reginald Front de B oe uf entered the apartment . 
Cedric , with some difficulty , compelled himself to make obeisance to the haughty Baron , who returned his courtesy with a slight inclination of the head . 
Thy penitents , father , have made a long shrift it is the better for them , since it is the last they shall ever make . 
Ay ? '' said the Baron it had been better for thee to have been a Norman , and better for my purpose too but need has no choice of messengers . 
That St Withold's of Burton is a howlet's nest worth the harrying . 
The day will soon come that the frock shall protect the Saxon as little as the mail coat . 
'' God's will be done , '' said Cedric , in a voice tremulous with passion , which Front de B oe uf imputed to fear . 
I see , '' said he , thou dreamest already that our men at arms are in thy refectory and thy ale vaults . 
'' Speak your commands , '' said Cedric , with suppressed emotion . 
Follow me through this passage , then , that I may dismiss thee by the postern . 
'' And as he strode on his way before the supposed friar , Front de B oe uf thus schooled him in the part which he desired he should act . 
My vengeance is awake , and she is a falcon that slumbers not till she has been gorged . 
But necessity , according to the ancient proverb , sharpens invention , and he muttered something under his cowl concerning the men in question being excommunicated outlaws both to church and to kingdom . 
But they were Saxons who robbed the chapel at St Bees of cup , candlestick and chalice , were they not ? '' They were godless men , '' answered Cedric . 
'' I am indeed bound to vengeance , '' murmured Cedric Saint Withold knows my heart . 
And , hark thee , thou seemest to be a jolly confessor come hither after the onslaught , and thou shalt have as much Malvoisie as would drench thy whole convent . 
'' Assuredly we shall meet again , '' answered Cedric . 
I think he dares not betray me at the worst I can but treat with these Saxon dogs whom I have safe in kennel . 
prevented him from discovering that the most important of his captives had made his escape . 
This is Cedric's clown , who fought so manful a skirmish with Isaac of York about a question of precedence . 
'' Ay , but , '' said Wamba , your chivalrous excellency will find there are more fools than franklins among us . 
'' The poor wretch , '' said De Bracy , is resolved to die in his vocation . 
Front de B oe uf , you shall not slay him . 
Give him to me to make sport for my Free Companions . 
'' Oh , a Norman saw will soon cut a Saxon collar . 
'' What a man of mould may , '' answered Athelstane , providing it be what a man of manhood ought . 
Dismiss me free , with my companions , and I will pay a ransom of a thousand marks . 
In so far as I can , '' answered Athelstane , I will withdraw them and I fear not but that my father Cedric will do his best to assist me . 
It is a trifling ransom , Saxon , and thou wilt owe gratitude to the moderation which accepts of it in exchange of your persons . 
But mark , this extends not to the Jew Isaac . 
'' Nor to the Jew Isaac's daughter , '' said the Templar , who had now joined them Neither , '' said Front de B oe uf , belong to this Saxon's company . 
'' I were unworthy to be called Christian , if they did , '' replied Athelstane deal with the unbelievers as ye list . 
'' Neither does the ransom include the Lady Rowena , '' said De Bracy . 
It shall never be said I was scared out of a fair prize without striking a blow for it . 
'' The Lady Rowena , '' answered Athelstane , with the most steady countenance , is my affianced bride . 
I will be drawn by wild horses before I consent to part with her . 
The slave Wamba has this day saved the life of my father Cedric I will lose mine ere a hair of his head be injured . 
I tell thee , the Princes of the House of Anjou confer not their wards on men of such lineage as thine . 
'' Thou hast it , De Bracy , '' said Front de B oe uf , well pleased with the rebuff which his companion had received the Saxon hath hit thee fairly . 
'' As fairly as a captive can strike , '' said De Bracy , with apparent carelessness for he whose hands are tied should have his tongue at freedom . 
But thy glibness of reply , comrade , '' rejoined he , speaking to Athelstane , will not win the freedom of the Lady Rowena . 
'' To this Athelstane , who had already made a longer speech than was his custom to do on any topic , however interesting , returned no answer . 
The conversation was interrupted by the arrival of a menial , who announced that a monk demanded admittance at the postern gate . 
'' Let me endure the extremity of your anger , my lord , '' said Giles , if this be not a real shaveling . 
Your squire Jocelyn knows him well , and will vouch him to be brother Ambrose , a monk in attendance upon the Prior of Jorvaulx . 
'' Admit him , '' said Front de B oe uf most likely he brings us news from his jovial master . 
Surely the devil keeps holiday , and the priests are relieved from duty , that they are strolling thus wildly through the country . 
Remove these prisoners and , Saxon , think on what thou hast heard . 
Moreover , I hold him that deems himself the best of you , bound to answer to me with his body for this aggression on my freedom . 
This defiance hath already been sent to thee by thy sewer thou underliest it , and art bound to answer me There lies my glove . 
'' I answer not the challenge of my prisoner , '' said Front de B oe uf nor shalt thou , Maurice de Bracy . 
Giles , '' he continued , hang the franklin's glove upon the tine of yonder branched antlers there shall it remain until he is a free man . 
This is the real Deus vobiscum , '' said Wamba , as he passed the reverend brother the others were but counterfeits . 
'' The foul fiend quell the Prior ! '' said Front de B oe uf his morning's drought has been a deep one . 
But , God help me , I am old , and these foul onslaughts distract an aged man's brain . 
Nevertheless , it is of verity that they assemble a camp , and raise a bank against the walls of this castle . 
Pavisses were a species of large shields covering the whole person , employed on the same occasions . 
skirts of the wood like a dark cloud before a hailstorm . 
Our numbers are few , but activity and courage may supply that defect , since we have only to do with rascal clowns . 
Ho ! there , Anselm I see that seething pitch and oil are ready to pour on the heads of these audacious traitors Look that the cross bowmen lack not bolts . 
Fling abroad my banner with The bolt was the arrow peculiarly fitted to the cross bow , as that of the long bow was called a shaft . 
Hence the English proverb I will either make a shaft or bolt of it , '' signifying a determination to make one use or other of the thing spoken of . 
'' Away with this prating dotard , '' said Front de B oe uf , lock him up in the chapel , to tell his beads till the broil be over . 
It will be a new thing to the saints in Torquilstone to hear aves and paters they have not been so honoured , I trow , since they were cut out of stone . 
'' Blaspheme not the holy saints , Sir Reginald , '' said De Bracy , we shall have need of their aid to day before yon rascal rout disband . 
'' I expect little aid from their hand , '' said Front de B oe uf , unless we were to hurl them from the battlements on the heads of the villains . 
There is a huge lumbering Saint Christopher yonder , sufficient to bear a whole company to the earth . 
'' The Templar had in the meantime been looking out on the proceedings of the besiegers , with rather more attention than the brutal Front de B oe uf or his giddy companion . 
By the faith of mine order , '' he said , these men approach with more touch of discipline than could have been judged , however they come by it . 
'' I espy him , '' said De Bracy I see the waving of a knight's crest , and the gleam of his armour . 
'' So much the better , '' said Front de B oe uf , that he comes here to give me my revenge . 
Some hilding fellow he must be , who dared not stay to assert his claim to the tourney prize which chance had assigned him . 
I should in vain have sought for him where knights and nobles seek their foes , and right glad am I he hath here shown himself among yon villain yeomanry . 
'' The demonstrations of the enemy's immediate approach cut off all farther discourse . 
Our history must needs retrograde for the space of a few pages , to inform the reader of certain passages material to his understanding the rest of this important narrative . 
It would not have been difficult to have persuaded Isaac to this step in any other circumstances , for his disposition was kind and grateful . 
But he had also the prejudices and scrupulous timidity of his persecuted people , and those were to be conquered . 
'' I would I knew what the Rabbi Jacob Ben Tudela would opine on it , '' replied Isaac nevertheless , the good youth must not bleed to death . 
Let Seth and Reuben bear him to Ashby . 
'' Nay , let them place him in my litter , '' said Rebecca I will mount one of the palfreys . 
'' That were to expose thee to the gaze of those dogs of Ishmael and of Edom , '' whispered Isaac , with a suspicious glance towards the crowd of knights and squires . 
Rebecca lost no time in causing the patient to be transported to their temporary dwelling , and proceeded with her own hands to examine and to bind up his wounds . 
to the hatred with which their nation was regarded , while it diminished the contempt with which that malevolence was mingled . 
A Jewish magician might be the subject of equal abhorrence with a Jewish usurer , but he could not be equally despised . 
The fate of Miriam had indeed been to fall a sacrifice to the fanaticism of the times but her secrets had survived in her apt pupil . 
Isaac looked a little blank at this annunciation . 
To this , however , Rebecca opposed many reasons , of which we shall only mention two that had peculiar weight with Isaac . 
'' It was not until evening was nearly closed that Ivanhoe was restored to consciousness of his situation . 
He awoke from a broken slumber , under the confused impressions which are naturally attendant on the recovery from a state of insensibility . 
An effort to draw aside the curtain of his conch was in some degree successful , although rendered difficult by the pain of his wound . 
Rebecca's few and brief directions were given in the Hebrew language to the old domestic and he , who had been frequently her assistant in similar cases , obeyed them without reply . 
that his curiosity could no longer be suppressed . 
I am of England , Sir Knight , and speak the English tongue , although my dress and my lineage belong to another climate . 
'' Noble damsel , '' again the Knight of Ivanhoe began and again Rebecca hastened to interrupt him . 
Bestow not on me , Sir Knight , '' she said , the epithet of noble . 
It well becomes him , and those of his household , to render to you such careful tendance as your present state necessarily demands . 
But Ivanhoe was too good a Catholic to retain the same class of feelings towards a Jewess . 
But the gentleness and candour of Rebecca's nature imputed no fault to Ivanhoe for sharing in the universal prejudices of his age and religion . 
Ivanhoe expressed great repugnance to this plan , which he grounded on unwillingness to give farther trouble to his benefactors . 
No Nazarene I crave your forgiveness , Sir Knight no Christian leech , within the four seas of Britain , could enable you to bear your corslet within a month . 
'' And how soon wilt thou enable me to brook it ? '' said Ivanhoe , impatiently . 
Within eight days , if thou wilt be patient and conformable to my directions , '' replied Rebecca . 
And now , my kind leech , let me enquire of the news abroad . 
It is said be designs to assume his brother's crown . 
'' Went any lady with them to the banquet ? '' said Wilfred . 
'' Speak not of that , '' said Rebecca , blushing deeply I see how easy it is for the tongue to betray what the heart would gladly conceal . 
'' But this sum of gold , '' said Ivanhoe , gravely , my honour is concerned in repaying it to your father . 
'' Be it so , kind maiden , '' said Ivanhoe I were most ungrateful to dispute thy commands . 
But one word of the fate of poor Gurth , and I have done with questioning thee . 
'' I grieve to tell thee , Sir Knight , '' answered the Jewess , that he is in custody by the order of Cedric . 
'' Would to God they may keep their purpose ! '' said Ivanhoe but it seems as if I were destined to bring ruin on whomsoever hath shown kindness to me . 
'' Nay , '' said Rebecca , thy weakness and thy grief , Sir Knight , make thee miscalculate the purposes of Heaven . 
'' Ivanhoe was convinced by the reasoning , and obeyed the directions , of Rebecca . 
The drought which Reuben administered was of a sedative and narcotic quality , and secured the patient sound and undisturbed slumbers . 
In the morning his kind physician found him entirely free from feverish symptoms , and fit to undergo the fatigue of a journey . 
He was deposited in the horse litter which had brought him from the lists , and every precaution taken for his travelling with ease . 
In one circumstance only even the entreaties of Rebecca were unable to secure sufficient attention to the accommodation of the wounded knight . 
In another point of view , however , the Jew's haste proved somewhat more than good speed . 
The rapidity with which he insisted on travelling , bred several disputes between him and the party whom he had hired to attend him as a guard . 
These men were Saxons , and not free by any means from the national love of ease and good living which the Normans stigmatized as laziness and gluttony . 
They remonstrated also upon the risk of damage to their horses by these forced marches . 
Finally , there arose betwixt Isaac and his satellites a deadly feud , concerning the quantity of wine and ale to be allowed for consumption at each meal . 
This explanation was accordingly returned by these men to Front de B oe uf , when he questioned them why they did not make for the battlements upon the alarm . 
A wounded companion ! '' he replied in great wrath and astonishment . 
'' The dying man , knaves ! '' rejoined the Baron I promise thee we shall all be dying men an we stand not to it the more stoutly . 
But I will relieve the guard upon this caitiff companion of yours . 
Here , Urfried hag fiend of a Saxon witch hearest me not ? tend me this bedridden fellow since he must needs be tended , whilst these knaves use their weapons . 
you , and see you drive each bolt through a Saxon brain . 
But she , whose brain was burning with remembrance of injuries and with hopes of vengeance , was readily induced to devolve upon Rebecca the care of her patient . 
CHAPTER XXIX Ascend the watch tower yonder , valiant soldier , Look on the field , and say how goes the battle . 
A moment of peril is often also a moment of open hearted kindness and affection . 
A sigh escaped , but it was scarce audible and the questions which she asked the knight concerning his state of health were put in the tone of calm friendship . 
'' He calls me dear Rebecca , '' said the maiden to herself , but it is in the cold and careless tone which ill suits the word . 
She added , that there was a Christian priest within the castle who might be possessed of more information . 
Rebecca retired to communicate to Ivanhoe the result of her errand . 
Could I but reach yonder window ! '' Thou wilt but injure thyself by the attempt , noble knight , '' replied his attendant . 
Observing his extreme solicitude , she firmly added , I myself will stand at the lattice , and describe to you as I can what passes without . 
It was an exterior fortification of no great height or strength , intended to protect the postern gate , through which Cedric had been recently dismissed by Front de B oe uf . 
In the outwork was a sallyport corresponding to the postern of the castle , and the whole was surrounded by a strong palisade . 
These appearances she hastily communicated to Ivanhoe , and added , The skirts of the wood seem lined with archers , although only a few are advanced from its dark shadow . 
'' Under what banner ? '' asked Ivanhoe . 
Under no ensign of war which I can observe , '' answered Rebecca . 
'' What device does he bear on his shield ? '' replied Ivanhoe . 
Something resembling a bar of iron , and a padlock painted blue on the black shield . 
'' The author has been here upbraided with false heraldry , as having charged metal upon metal . 
A fetterlock and shacklebolt azure , '' said Ivanhoe I know not who may bear the device , but well I ween it might now be mine own . 
'' Seem there no other leaders ? '' exclaimed the anxious enquirer . 
None of mark and distinction that I can behold from this station , '' said Rebecca but , doubtless , the other side of the castle is also assailed . 
retorted in notes of defiance the challenge of the enemy . 
The whizzing of shafts and of missiles , on both sides , was only interrupted by the shouts which arose when either side inflicted or sustained some notable loss . 
What dost thou see , Rebecca ? '' again demanded the wounded knight . 
Nothing but the cloud of arrows flying so thick as to dazzle mine eyes , and to hide the bowmen who shoot them . 
Look for the Knight of the Fetterlock , fair Rebecca , and see how he bears himself for as the leader is , so will his followers be . 
'' I see him not , '' said Rebecca . 
Many of those valiant feats of arms which adorn the chivalrous pages of Froissart took place at the barriers of besieged places . 
They pull down the piles and palisades they hew down the barriers with axes . 
His high black plume floats abroad over the throng , like a raven over the field of the slain . 
They have made a breach in the barriers they rush in they are thrust back ! Front de B oe uf heads the defenders I see his gigantic form above the press . 
They throng again to the breach , and the pass is disputed hand to hand , and man to man . 
Look forth again , Rebecca , '' said Ivanhoe , mistaking the cause of her retiring the archery must in some degree have ceased , since they are now fighting hand to hand . 
Look again , there is now less danger . 
'' The assailants have won the barriers , have they not ? '' said Ivanhoe . 
'' What do they now , maiden ? '' said Ivanhoe look forth yet again this is no time to faint at bloodshed . 
'' Our friends , '' said Wilfred , will surely not abandon an enterprise so gloriously begun and so happily attained . 
O no ! I will put my faith in the good knight whose axe hath rent heart of oak and bars of iron . 
Nothing can I spy that can mark him further but having once seen him put forth his strength in battle , methinks I could know him again among a thousand warriors . 
He rushes to the fray as if he were summoned to a banquet . 
There is more than mere strength , there seems as if the whole soul and spirit of the champion were given to every blow which he deals upon his enemies . 
God assoilzie him of the sin of bloodshed ! it is fearful , yet magnificent , to behold bow the arm and heart of one man can triumph over hundreds . 
The sound of the trumpet wakes Judah no longer , and her despised children are now but the unresisting victims of hostile and military oppression . 
He sleeps , '' she said nature exhausted by sufferance and the waste of spirits , his wearied frame embraces the first moment of temporary relaxation to sink into slumber . 
Addition to Note attached to page . 
The heralds have tried to explain this undeniable fact in different modes but Ferne gallantly contends , that a prince of Godfrey's qualities should not be bound by the ordinary rules . 
See Ferne's Blazon of Gentrie , p . 
CHAPTER XXX Approach the chamber , look upon his bed . 
Where is Front de B oe uf ? '' said the latter , who had superintended the defence of the fortress on the other side men say he hath been slain . 
Yet a few hours , and Front de B oe uf is with his fathers a powerful limb lopped off Prince John's enterprise . 
'' Benedicite , Sir Templar , '' replied De Bracy , pray you to keep better rule with your tongue when I am the theme of it . 
'' Care not thou for such reports , '' said the Templar but let us think of making good the castle . 
How fought these villain yeomen on thy side ? '' Like fiends incarnate , '' said De Bracy . 
They swanned close up to the walls , headed , as I think , by the knave who won the prize at the archery , for I knew his horn and baldric . 
'' But you maintained your post ? '' said the Templar . 
We lost the outwork on our part . 
Front de B oe uf is dying too , so we shall receive no more aid from his bull's head and brutal strength . 
'' The better , '' said De Bracy the rugged slaves will defend themselves to the last drop of their blood , ere they encounter the revenge of the peasants without . 
'' To the walls ! '' answered the Templar and they both ascended the battlements to do all that skill could dictate , and manhood accomplish , in defence of the place . 
They readily agreed that the point of greatest danger was that opposite to the outwork of which the assailants had possessed themselves . 
Meanwhile , the lord of the beleaguered and endangered castle lay upon a bed of bodily pain and mental agony . 
'' I am thine evil angel , Reginald Front de B oe uf , '' replied the voice . 
Let me behold thee then in thy bodily shape , if thou best indeed a fiend , '' replied the dying knight think not that I will blench from thee . 
Go , leave me , fiend ! and seek the Saxon witch Ulrica , who alone could tell thee what she and I alone witnessed . 
Avaunt avaunt ! '' But it were impious to trace any farther the picture of the blasphemer and parricide's deathbed . 
CHAPTER XXXI Once more unto the breach , dear friends , once more , Or , close the wall up with our English dead . 
And you , good yeomen , Whose limbs were made in England , show us here The mettle of your pasture let us swear That you are worth your breeding . 
King Henry V. Cedric , although not greatly confident in Ulrica's message , omitted not to communicate her promise to the Black Knight and Locksley . 
The royal blood of Alfred is endangered , '' said Cedric . 
The honour of a noble lady is in peril , '' said the Black Knight . 
'' And with that he made his heavy halberd to play around his head as a shepherd boy flourishes his light crook . 
True , Holy Clerk , '' said the Black Knight , true as if Saint Dunstan himself had said it . 
I will fight among the foremost but my honest neighbours well know I am not a trained soldier in the discipline of wars , or the attack of strongholds . 
'' The parts being thus distributed to the leaders , they commenced the first assault , of which the reader has already heard the issue . 
Besides , it will be a marvel if the horsemen come not upon us from York , unless we speedily accomplish our purpose . 
Follow me boldly across , and aid me to burst yon sallyport in the main wall of the castle . 
'' Yet , bethink thee , noble Saxon , '' said the knight , thou hast neither hauberk , nor corslet , nor aught but that light helmet , target , and sword . 
'' The better ! '' answered Cedric I shall be the lighter to climb these walls . 
'' In the name of God , then , '' said the knight , fling open the door , and launch the floating bridge . 
Well aware of the importance of taking the foe by surprise , the Black Knight , closely followed by Cedric , threw himself upon the bridge , and reached the opposite side . 
The followers of the knight had no such shelter two were instantly shot with cross bow bolts , and two more fell into the moat the others retreated back into the barbican . 
But their situation was eminently perilous , and was becoming more so with every moment . 
At this moment the besiegers caught sight of the red flag upon the angle of the tower which Ulrica had described to Cedric . 
The stout yeoman Locksley was the first who was aware of it , as he was hasting to the outwork , impatient to see the progress of the assault . 
The men at arms were daunted , for no armour seemed proof against the shot of this tremendous archer . 
All saw the danger , and the boldest , even the stout Friar himself , avoided setting foot on the raft . 
Thrice did Locksley bend his shaft against De Bracy , and thrice did his arrow bound back from the knight's armour of proof . 
Curse on thy Spanish steel coat ! '' said Locksley , had English smith forged it , these arrows had gone through , an as if it had been silk or sendal . 
'' He then began to call out , Comrades ! friends ! noble Cedric ! bear back , and let the ruin fall . 
'' His warning voice was unheard , for the din which the knight himself occasioned by his strokes upon the postern would have drowned twenty war trumpets . 
The faithful Gurth indeed sprung forward on the planked bridge , to warn Cedric of his impending fate , or to share it with him . 
'' Thou art mad to say so ! '' replied the knight . 
It is all in a light flame on the western side . 
I have striven in vain to extinguish it . 
'' With the stern coolness which formed the basis of his character , Brian de Bois Guilbert communicated this hideous intelligence , which was not so calmly received by his astonished comrade . 
But scarce was this done ere the portentous strength of the Black Knight forced his way inward in despite of De Bracy and his followers . 
Two of the foremost instantly fell , and the rest gave way notwithstanding all their leader's efforts to stop them . 
yield thee , Maurice de Bracy , rescue or no rescue , or thou art but a dead man . 
'' I will not yield , '' replied De Bracy faintly , to an unknown conqueror . 
Tell me thy name , or work thy pleasure on me it shall never be said that Maurice de Bracy was prisoner to a nameless churl . 
'' The Black Knight whispered something into the ear of the vanquished . 
I yield me to be true prisoner , rescue or no rescue , '' answered the Norman , exchanging his tone of stern and determined obstinacy for one of deep though sullen submission . 
Go to the barbican , '' said the victor , in a tone of authority , and there wait my further orders . 
'' Yet first , let me say , '' said De Bracy , what it imports thee to know . 
Wilfred of Ivanhoe is wounded and a prisoner , and will perish in the burning castle without present help . 
No. To the barbican , and there wait my orders . 
I trust thee not , De Bracy . 
De Bracy himself arose from the ground , and cast a sorrowful glance after his conqueror . 
As the fire augmented , symptoms of it became soon apparent in the chamber , where Ivanhoe was watched and tended by the Jewess Rebecca . 
But the theft , if there be one , would be rather too severely punished by the penance of searching for the original passage through the interminable volumes of the Grand Cyrus . 
Alone , '' answered Rebecca , I will not follow thee . 
One turret was now in bright flames , which flashed out furiously from window and shot hole . 
Most of the garrison resisted to the uttermost few of them asked quarter none received it . 
The air was filled with groans and clashing of arms the floors were slippery with the blood of despairing and expiring wretches . 
This accomplished , the loyal Cedric hastened in quest of his friend Athelstane , determined , at every risk to himself , to save that last scion of Saxon royalty . 
Meantime the prisoners found no difficulty in making their escape into the anteroom , and from thence into the court of the castle , which was now the last scene of contest . 
And you without armour too ! Bethink you , silk bonnet never kept out steel blade . 
Nay , then , if wilful will to water , wilful must drench . 
Deus vobiscum , most doughty Athelstane ! '' he concluded , loosening the hold which he had hitherto kept upon the Saxon's tunic . 
Well said Wamba , that silken bonnet keeps out no steel blade . 
He was followed by his Saracens , and some five or six men at arms , who had mounted their horses . 
De Bracy ! De Bracy ! '' he shouted , art thou there ? '' I am here , '' replied De Bracy , but I am a prisoner . 
'' Can I rescue thee ? '' cried Bois Guilbert . 
No , '' replied De Bracy I have rendered me , rescue or no rescue . 
I will be true prisoner . 
Save thyself there are hawks abroad put the seas betwixt you and England I dare not say more . 
'' Well , '' answered the Templar , an thou wilt tarry there , remember I have redeemed word and glove . 
Be the hawks where they will , methinks the walls of the Preceptory of Templestowe will be cover sufficient , and thither will I , like heron to her haunt . 
'' Having thus spoken , he galloped off with his followers . 
Tradition has preserved some wild strophes of the barbarous hymn which she chanted wildly amid that scene of fire and of slaughter . 
Whet the steel , the raven croaks ! Light the torch , Zernebock is yelling ! Whet the steel , sons of the Dragon ! Kindle the torch , daughter of Hengist ! . 
The black cloud is low over the thane's castle The eagle screams he rides on its bosom . 
Scream not , grey rider of the sable cloud , Thy banquet is prepared ! The maidens of Valhalla look forth , The race of Hengist will send them guests . 
Shake your black tresses , maidens of Valhalla ! And strike your loud timbrels for joy ! Many a haughty step bends to your halls , Many a helmed head . 
All must perish ! The sword cleaveth the helmet The strong armour is pierced by the lance Fire devoureth the dwelling of princes , Engines break down the fences of the battle . 
Tower after tower crashed down , with blazing roof and rafter and the combatants were driven from the court yard . 
The vanquished , of whom very few remained , scattered and escaped into the neighbouring wood . 
The victors , assembling in large bands , gazed with wonder , not unmixed with fear , upon the flames , in which their own ranks and arms glanced dusky red . 
At length , with a terrific crash , the whole turret gave way , and she perished in the flames which had consumed her tyrant . 
An awful pause of horror silenced each murmur of the armed spectators , who , for the space of several minutes , stirred not a finger , save to sign the cross . 
The daylight had dawned upon the glades of the oak forest . 
The green boughs glittered with all their pearls of dew . 
Here Locksley assumed his seat a throne of turf erected under the twisted branches of the huge oak , and the silvan followers were gathered around him . 
He assigned to the Black Knight a seat at his right hand , and to Cedric a place upon his left . 
Now , sirs , who hath seen our chaplain ? where is our curtal Friar ? A mass amongst Christian men best begins a busy morning . 
'' No one had seen the Clerk of Copmanhurst . 
Over gods forbode ! '' said the outlaw chief , I trust the jolly priest hath but abidden by the wine pot a thought too late . 
'' Good yeoman , '' said Cedric , my heart is oppressed with sadness . 
The Lady Rowena is desirous to return to Rotherwood , and must be escorted by a sufficient force . 
'' Nay , but , '' said the chief Outlaw , we did but half the work at most take of the spoil what may reward your own neighbours and followers . 
'' I am rich enough to reward them from mine own wealth , '' answered Cedric . 
And some , '' said Wamba , have been wise enough to reward themselves they do not march off empty handed altogether . 
We do not all wear motley . 
'' They are welcome , '' said Locksley our laws bind none but ourselves . 
'' Pardon him ! '' exclaimed Cedric I will both pardon and reward him . 
'' The swineherd was in an instant at his master's feet Theow and Esne art thou no longer , '' Thrall and bondsman . 
said Cedric touching him with a wand Folkfree and Sacless art thou in town and from A lawful freeman . 
town , in the forest as in the field . 
As Rowena bent her steed towards Locksley's seat , that bold yeoman , with all his followers , rose to receive her , as if by a general instinct of courtesy . 
'' Thanks , gentle lady , '' said Locksley thanks from my company and myself . 
But , to have saved you requites itself . 
We who walk the greenwood do many a wild deed , and the Lady Rowena's deliverance may be received as an atonement . 
He stood under a tree in deep meditation , his arms crossed upon his breast , and Rowena was in hopes she might pass him unobserved . 
He looked up , however , and , when aware of her presence , a deep flush of shame suffused his handsome countenance . 
He stood a moment most irresolute then , stepping forward , took her palfrey by the rein , and bent his knee before her . 
'' I forgive you , Sir Knight , '' said Rowena , as a Christian . 
'' That means , '' said Wamba , that she does not forgive him at all . 
'' But I can never forgive the misery and desolation your madness has occasioned , '' continued Rowena . 
Unloose your hold on the lady's rein , '' said Cedric , coming up . 
Cedric , ere they departed , expressed his peculiar gratitude to the Black Champion , and earnestly entreated him to accompany him to Rotherwood . 
Thou hast earned one in the halls of Rotherwood , noble knight . 
'' Cedric has already made me rich , '' said the Knight , he has taught me the value of Saxon virtue . 
To Rotherwood will I come , brave Saxon , and that speedily but , as now , pressing matters of moment detain me from your halls . 
Peradventure when I come hither , I will ask such a boon as will put even thy generosity to the test . 
'' Gage not thy promise so lightly , '' said the Knight of the Fetterlock yet well I hope to gain the boon I shall ask . 
But he , '' continued the Jester , lifting up his eyes gravely , is supping in Paradise , and doubtless does honour to the cheer . 
'' Peace , and move on , '' said Cedric , his anger at this untimely jest being checked by the recollection of Wamba's recent services . 
Rowena waved a graceful adieu to him of the Fetterlock the Saxon bade God speed him , and on they moved through a wide glade of the forest . 
They had scarce departed , ere a sudden procession moved from under the greenwood branches , swept slowly round the silvan amphitheatre , and took the same direction with Rowena and her followers . 
Many of his vassals had assembled at the news of his death , and followed the bier with all the external marks , at least , of dejection and sorrow . 
But he is thy prisoner , and he is safe , though he had slain my father . 
'' De Bracy , '' said the Knight , thou art free depart . 
He whose prisoner thou art scorns to take mean revenge for what is past . 
But beware of the future , lest a worse thing befall thee . 
To your brakes and caves , ye outlawed thieves ! and be silent when aught knightly or noble is but spoken within a league of your fox earths . 
'' This ill timed defiance might have procured for De Bracy a volley of arrows , but for the hasty and imperative interference of the outlaw Chief . 
He threw himself upon the saddle , and galloped off through the wood . 
and it may well chance ye shall find helpers and rescue . 
'' He then gave breath to the bugle , and winded once and again the call which be described , until the knight had caught the notes . 
Gramercy for the gift , bold yeoman , '' said the Knight and better help than thine and thy rangers would I never seek , were it at my utmost need . 
'' And then in his turn he winded the call till all the greenwood rang . 
'' Locksley now proceeded to the distribution of the spoil , which he performed with the most laudable impartiality . 
It may be the office has helped to cover some of his canonical irregularities . 
'' I were right sorry for that , '' said the Knight of the Fetterlock , for I stand indebted to him for the joyous hospitality of a merry night in his cell . 
Let us to the ruins of the castle it may be we shall there learn some tidings of him . 
Make room , my merry men ! '' he exclaimed room for your godly father and his prisoner Cry welcome once more . 
I come , noble leader , like an eagle with my prey in my clutch . 
Ave Maria ! '' Nay , we will have no profanation , mad Priest , '' said Locksley let us rather hear where you found this prisoner of thine . 
and blocked up the passage . 
my head is wellnigh dizzied , I trow . 
But I was clean exhausted . 
Gilbert and Wibbald know in what state they found me quite and clean exhausted . 
But what recks it ? The Jew is converted , and understands all I have told him , very nearly , if not altogether , as well as myself . 
'' Thou liest , Jew , and thou knowest thou dost . 
'' said the Friar I will remind thee of but one word of our conference thou didst promise to give all thy substance to our holy Order . 
thou didst break thy vow of fast and vigil ? '' Truly , friend , '' said the Friar , clenching his huge fist , I will bestow a buffet on thee . 
repay thee with usury as deep as ever thy prisoner there exacted in his traffic . 
'' I will prove that presently , '' said the Friar . 
Friar , strike an thou darest I will stand thy blow , if thou wilt stand mine . 
'' The Friar bared his brawny arm up to the elbow , and putting his full strength to the blow , gave the Knight a buffet that might have felled an ox . 
But his adversary stood firm as a rock . 
'' So spoke the burly Priest , assuming , on his part , high defiance . 
But he arose neither angry nor crestfallen . 
Brother , '' said he to the Knight , thou shouldst have used thy strength with more discretion . 
I had mumbled but a lame mass an thou hadst broken my jaw , for the piper plays ill that wants the nether chops . 
Nevertheless , there is my hand , in friendly witness , that I will exchange no more cuffs with thee , having been a loser by the barter . 
Let us put the Jew to ransom , since the leopard will not change his spots , and a Jew he will continue to be . 
'' The Priest , '' said Clement , is not have so confident of the Jew's conversion , since he received that buffet on the ear . 
But an thou gibest more of it , thou shalt learn I can give as well as take . 
'' Peace all ! '' said the Captain . 
Think , therefore , of an offer , while I examine a prisoner of another cast . 
'' Were many of Front de B oe uf's men taken ? '' demanded the Black Knight . 
The prisoner I speak of is better booty a jolly monk riding to visit his leman , an I may judge by his horse gear and wearing apparel . 
Here cometh the worthy prelate , as pert as a pyet . 
'' And , between two yeomen , was brought before the silvan throne of the outlaw Chief , our old friend , Prior Aymer of Jorvaulx . 
CHAPTER XXXIII Flower of warriors , How is't with Titus Lartius ? Marcius . 
As with a man busied about decrees , Condemning some to death and some to exile , Ransoming him or pitying , threatening the other . 
Coriolanus The captive Abbot's features and manners exhibited a whimsical mixture of offended pride , and deranged foppery and bodily terror . 
Why , how now , my masters ? '' said he , with a voice in which all three emotions were blended . 
'' It is impossible that Allan a Dale can have thus treated a man of your reverend bearing , '' replied the Captain . 
You do but jest with me , '' said the astounded Prior , with a forced laugh and I love a good jest with all my heart . 
But , ha ! ha ! ha ! when the mirth has lasted the livelong night , it is time to be grave in the morning . 
Let our buxom chaplain stand forth , and expound to this reverend father the texts which concern this matter . 
'' What profane mummery is this ? '' said the Prior . 
'' Truly , reverend father , '' said the Friar , I know but one mode in which thou mayst escape . 
This is Saint Andrew's day with us , we are taking our tithes . 
'' But not of the church , then , I trust , my good brother ? '' said the Prior . 
'' Give him a horn , '' said the Outlaw we will prove the skill he boasts of . 
'' The Prior Aymer winded a blast accordingly . 
The Captain shook his head . 
Moreover , I have found thee thou art one of those , who , with new French graces and Tra li ras , disturb the ancient English bugle notes . 
Prior , that last flourish on the recheat hath added fifty crowns to thy ransom , for corrupting the true old manly blasts of venerie . 
'' Well , friend , '' said the Abbot , peevishly , thou art ill to please with thy woodcraft . 
I pray thee be more conformable in this matter of my ransom . 
'' O , assuredly , '' said Isaac . 
I have trafficked with the good fathers , and bought wheat and barley , and fruits of the earth , and also much wool . 
O , it is a rich abbey stede , and they do live upon the fat , and drink the sweet wines upon the lees , these good fathers of Jorvaulx . 
The circumcised villain blasphemeth the holy church , and Christian men listen and rebuke him not ! '' All this helps nothing , '' said the leader . 
Isaac , pronounce what be may pay , without flaying both hide and hair . 
'' An six hundred crowns , '' said Isaac , the good Prior might well pay to your honoured valours , and never sit less soft in his stall . 
'' Six hundred crowns , '' said the leader , gravely I am contented thou hast well spoken , Isaac six hundred crowns . 
It is a sentence , Sir Prior . 
'' A sentence ! a sentence ! '' exclaimed the band Solomon had not done it better . 
'' Thou hearest thy doom , Prior , '' said the leader . 
'' Borghs , or borrows , signifies pledges . 
Hence our word to borrow , because we pledge ourselves to restore what is lent . 
That will be but blind trust , '' said the Outlaw we will retain thee , Prior , and send them to fetch thy ransom . 
Thou shalt not want a cup of wine and a collop of venison the while and if thou lovest woodcraft , thou shalt see such as your north country never witnessed . 
'' He shall grant thee whatever thou dost list , Isaac , '' said the Captain and thou shalt lay down the redemption money for Prior Aymer as well as for thyself . 
'' The Prior shall judge of that matter , '' replied the Captain . 
'' Hold , father , '' said the Jew , mitigate and assuage your choler . 
I pray of your reverence to remember that I force my monies upon no one . 
But when churchman and layman , prince and prior , knight and priest , come knocking to Isaac's door , they borrow not his shekels with these uncivil terms . 
Do thou , therefore , name his ransom , as he named thine , without farther rude terms . 
But since ye require me to put a price upon this caitiff , I tell you openly that ye will wrong yourselves if you take from him a penny under a thousand crowns . 
'' A sentence ! a sentence ! '' exclaimed the chief Outlaw . 
A sentence ! a sentence ! '' shouted his assessors the Christian has shown his good nurture , and dealt with us more generously than the Jew . 
I had drawn my bow to send a shaft after him , but spared him even for the sake of the damsel , who I feared might take harm from the arrow . 
Well go to what though there be , '' said the Outlaw , we will not reckon with thee too closely . 
Without treasure thou mayst as well hope to redeem thy child from the clutches of Sir Brian de Bois Guilbert , as to shoot a stag royal with a headless shaft . 
Templars love the glitter of silver shekels as well as the sparkle of black eyes . 
Hasten to make thy crowns chink in the ear of De Bois Guilbert , ere worse comes of it . 
Thou wilt find him , as our scouts have brought notice , at the next Preceptory house of his Order . 
The Captain drew himself back , and extricated himself from the Jew's grasp , not without some marks of contempt . 
Also Brian de Bois Guilbert is one with whom I may do much bethink thee how thou mayst deserve my good word with him . 
'' Isaac groaned deeply , and began to wring his hands , and to relapse into his state of desolation and despair . 
But the leader of the yeomen led him aside . 
Advise thee well , Isaac , '' said Locksley , what thou wilt do in this matter my counsel to thee is to make a friend of this churchman . 
He is vain , Isaac , and he is covetous at least he needs money to supply his profusion . 
Thou canst easily gratify his greed for think not that I am blinded by thy pretexts of poverty . 
'' And thou art he whom we called Diccon Bend the Bow ? '' said Isaac I thought ever I knew the accent of thy voice . 
'' I am Bend the Bow , '' said the Captain , and Locksley , and have a good name besides all these . 
'' But thou art mistaken , good Bend the Bow , concerning that same vaulted apartment . 
'' Silent as a dormouse , '' said the Outlaw and never trust me but I am grieved for thy daughter . 
But I may not help it The Templars lances are too strong for my archery in the open field they would scatter us like dust . 
Had I but known it was Rebecca when she was borne off , something might have been done but now thou must needs proceed by policy . 
'' He then turned from the Jew , who followed him , however , as closely as his shadow . 
Prior Aymer , '' said the Captain , come apart with me under this tree . 
Men say thou dost love wine , and a lady's smile , better than beseems thy Order , Sir Priest but with that I have nought to do . 
But I have never heard that thou didst love oppression or cruelty . 
'' In safety and honour , as when taken from me , '' said the Jew , otherwise it is no bargain . 
'' Peace , Isaac , '' said the Outlaw , or I give up thine interest . 
Yet , if the Israelite will advantage the Church by giving me somewhat over to the building of our dortour , Dortour , or dormitory . 
I will take it on my conscience to aid him in the matter of his daughter . 
'' Nay , but , good Diccon Bend the Bow'' said Isaac , endeavouring to interpose . 
And what pledge am I to have for all this ? '' said the Prior . 
The bird came fluttering down , transfixed with the arrow . 
There , Prior , '' said the Captain , are quills enow to supply all the monks of Jorvaulx for the next hundred years , an they take not to writing chronicles . 
'' I will take care of that , reverend Prior , '' said the Hermit of Copmanhurst for I will wear them myself . 
'' Nay , '' said the Friar , an my brain pan could have been broken by Latin , it had not held so long together . 
I say , that easing a world of such misproud priests as thou art of their jewels and their gimcracks , is a lawful spoiling of the Egyptians . 
'' Thou be'st a hedge priest , '' said the Prior , in Note H. Hedge Priests . 
great wrath , excommuicabo vos . 
Ossa enis perfringam , I will break your bones , as the Vulgate hath it . 
'' Hola ! '' cried the Captain , come the reverend brethren to such terms ? Keep thine assurance of peace , Friar . 
Prior , an thou hast not made thy peace perfect with God , provoke the Friar no further . 
Hermit , let the reverend father depart in peace , as a ransomed man . 
It remained that the Jew should produce some security for the ransom which he was to pay on the Prior's account , as well as upon his own . 
My brother Sheva , '' he said , groaning deeply , hath the key of my warehouses . 
'' And of the vaulted chamber , '' whispered Locksley . 
Farewell , thou whom I may not call good , and dare not and will not call evil . 
'' Yet ere Isaac departed , the Outlaw Chief bestowed on him this parting advice Be liberal of thine offers , Isaac , and spare not thy purse for thy daughter's safety . 
Credit me , that the gold thou shalt spare in her cause , will hereafter give thee as much agony as if it were poured molten down thy throat . 
Good fruit , Sir Knight , '' said the yeoman , will sometimes grow on a sorry tree and evil times are not always productive of evil alone and unmixed . 
You are welcome to form your judgment of me , and I may use my conjectures touching you , though neither of our shafts may hit the mark they are shot at . 
But as I do not pray to be admitted into your mystery , be not offended that I preserve my own . 
'' I crave pardon , brave Outlaw , '' said the Knight , your reproof is just . 
But it may be we shall meet hereafter with less of concealment on either side . 
'' And there is mine in return , '' said the Knight , and I hold it honoured by being clasped with yours . 
For he that does good , having the unlimited power to do evil , deserves praise not only for the good which he performs , but for the evil which he forbears . 
Fare thee well , gallant Outlaw ! '' Thus parted that fair fellowship and He of the Fetterlock , mounting upon his strong war horse , rode off through the forest . 
I'll tell thee what , my friend , He is a very serpent in my way And wheresoe'er this foot of mine doth tread , He lies before me . 
Dost thou understand me ? King John . 
But their enterprise was delayed by the absence of more than one main limb of the confederacy . 
This deficiency was likely to prove perilous in an emergency so critical . 
The unprincipled marauders , '' he said were I ever to become monarch of England , I would hang such transgressors over the drawbridges of their own castles . 
'' Prince John struck his forehead with impatience , and then began to stride up and down the apartment . 
'' What is to be done ? '' said the Prince , stopping short before Waldemar . 
I know nothing which can be done , '' answered his counsellor , save that which I have already taken order for . 
I came not to bewail this evil chance with your Grace , until I had done my best to remedy it . 
'' Prince John's face flushed with the pride of a spoilt child , who has undergone what it conceives to be an insult . 
'' Thou art pardoned , Fitzurse , '' said the prince , gravely thy purpose hath atoned for thy hasty rashness . 
But whom have we here ? De Bracy himself , by the rood ! and in strange guise doth he come before us . 
'' It was indeed De Bracy bloody with spurring , fiery red with speed . 
Undoing his helmet , he placed it on the table , and stood a moment as if to collect himself before be told his news . 
He has found a red grave among the blazing rafters of his own castle and I alone am escaped to tell you . 
'' Cold news , '' said Waldemar , to us , though you speak of fire and conflagration . 
'' Prince John turned pale , tottered , and caught at the back of an oaken bench to support himself much like to a man who receives an arrow in his bosom . 
Thou ravest , De Bracy , '' said Fitzurse , it cannot be . 
'' It is as true as truth itself , '' said De Bracy I was his prisoner , and spoke with him . 
'' With Richard Plantagenet , sayest thou ? '' continued Fitzurse . 
With Richard Plantagenet , '' replied De Bracy , with Richard C oe ur de Lion with Richard of England . 
I heard him say he was about to depart from them . 
He joined them only to assist at the storming of Torquilstone . 
Give her to me , Fitzurse , and I will maintain her as fits her rank , with the help of lance and stirrup , '' said De Bracy . 
Not so , '' answered Fitzurse I will take sanctuary in this church of Saint Peter the Archbishop is my sworn brother . 
As soon as Richard's return is blown abroad , he will be at the head of an army , and all is then over with us . 
I would counsel you , my lord , either to fly to France or take the protection of the Queen Mother . 
'' I seek no safety for myself , '' said Prince John , haughtily that I could secure by a word spoken to my brother . 
'' Waldemar Fitzurse and De Bracy looked in each other's faces with blank dismay . 
There is but one road to safety , '' continued the Prince , and his brow grew black as midnight this object of our terror journeys alone He must be met withal . 
'' Not by me , '' said De Bracy , hastily I was his prisoner , and he took me to mercy . 
I will not harm a feather in his crest . 
'' Ay , but , '' said Waldemar , your sire Henry sate more firm in his seat than your Grace can . 
I say the best prison is that which is made by the sexton no dungeon like a church vault ! I have said my say . 
'' Prison or tomb , '' said De Bracy , I wash my hands of the whole matter . 
'' That passes your eloquence , Fitzurse , '' replied the Knight . 
Why , good Sir Maurice , '' rejoined the wily politician , start not aside like a scared steed , without , at least , considering the object of your terror . 
'' Thou art no good knight if thou dost scruple at it , '' said Waldemar . 
True , he sent me from his presence , and refused my homage so far I owe him neither favour nor allegiance but I will not lift hand against him . 
'' It needs not send Louis Winkelbrand and a score of thy lances . 
'' Ye have sufficient ruffians of your own , '' said De Bracy not one of mine shall budge on such an errand . 
'' Come hither , Waldemar , '' said Prince John . 
spirit , are extinct ! and although Reginald Fitzurse hath left a son , he hath fallen off from his father's fidelity and courage . 
'' He has fallen off from neither , '' said Waldemar Fitzurse and since it may not better be , I will take on me the conduct of this perilous enterprise . 
De Bracy , to thee I must trust to keep up the spirits of the doubtful , and to guard Prince John's person . 
If you receive such news as I trust to send you , our enterprise will no longer wear a doubtful aspect . 
Adieu , my Prince , till better times . 
'' Thus speaking , he left the apartment . 
I trust he will observe our orders , and use our dear Richard's person with all due respect . 
'' De Bracy only answered by a smile . 
'' Nay , nay , '' said Prince John , impatiently , I promise thee he heard me and , besides , I have farther occupation for thee . 
Maurice , come hither let me lean on thy shoulder . 
Surely we will pause ere we give an office so high to one who shows evidently how little he reverences our blood , by his so readily undertaking this enterprise against Richard . 
The arrest of my unfortunate brother forms no such good title to the high office of Chancellor , as thy chivalrous and courageous denial establishes in thee to the truncheon of High Marshal . 
Think of this , De Bracy , and begone to thy charge . 
'' Fickle tyrant ! '' muttered De Bracy , as he left the presence of the Prince evil luck have they who trust thee . 
Thy Chancellor , indeed ! He who hath the keeping of thy conscience shall have an easy charge , I trow . 
Bid Hugh Bardon , our scout master , come hither , as soon as he shall have spoken with Waldemar Fitzurse . 
'' The scout master arrived after a brief delay , during which John traversed the apartment with , unequal and disordered steps . 
'' And thou hast fitted him ? '' Let your grace never trust me else , '' answered the master of the spies . 
One is from Hexamshire he is wont to trace the Tynedale and Teviotdale thieves , as a bloodhound follows the slot of a hurt deer . 
The other is Yorkshire bred , and has twanged his bowstring right oft in merry Sherwood he knows each glade and dingle , copse and high wood , betwixt this and Richmond . 
'' 'Tis well , '' said the Prince . 
Goes Waldemar forth with them ? '' Instantly , '' said Bardon . 
With what attendance ? '' asked John , carelessly . 
Fail not in this , as thou wilt be answerable . 
'' Hugh Bardon bowed , and retired . 
'' CHAPTER XXXV Arouse the tiger of Hyrcanian deserts , Strive with the half starved lion for his prey Lesser the risk , than rouse the slumbering fire Of wild Fanaticism . 
Our tale now returns to Isaac of York . 
Nathan Ben Israel received his suffering countryman with that kindness which the law prescribed , and which the Jews practised to each other . 
On the morrow , when Isaac proposed to arise and pursue his journey , Nathan remonstrated against his purpose , both as his host and as his physician . 
It might cost him , he said , his life . 
But Isaac replied , that more than life and death depended upon his going that morning to Templestowe . 
To Templestowe ! '' said his host with surprise again felt his pulse , and then muttered to himself , His fever is abated , yet seems his mind somewhat alienated and disturbed . 
'' And why not to Templestowe ? '' answered his patient . 
But these terms were sometimes , it would seem , used indiscriminately . 
'' He hath since come to England , unexpected by his brethren , '' said Ben Israel and he cometh among them with a strong and outstretched arm to correct and to punish . 
His countenance is kindled in anger against those who have departed from the vow which they have made , and great is the fear of those sons of Belial . 
'' And truly have they termed him , '' said Nathan the physician . 
'' He then explained to Nathan the pressing cause of his journey . 
Yet , if thou canst , keep thee from the presence of the Grand Master , for to do foul scorn to our people is his morning and evening delight . 
'' Isaac accordingly bade his friend farewell , and about an hour's riding brought him before the Preceptory of Templestowe . 
This establishment of the Templars was seated amidst fair meadows and pastures , which the devotion of the former Preceptor had bestowed upon their Order . 
It was strong and well fortified , a point never neglected by these knights , and which the disordered state of England rendered peculiarly necessary . 
A knight was now and then seen to cross the court in his long white cloak , his head depressed on his breast , and his arms folded . 
His stature was tall , and his gait , undepressed by age and toil , was erect and stately . 
Conrade , '' said the Grand Master , dear companion of my battles and my toils , to thy faithful bosom alone I can confide my sorrows . 
To thee alone can I tell how oft , since I came to this kingdom , I have desired to be dissolved and to be with the just . 
'' Because they are more wealthy , '' answered the Grand Master . 
Bear with me , brother , although I should something vaunt myself . 
They were commanded to extirpate magic and heresy . 
Lo ! they are charged with studying the accursed cabalistical secrets of the Jews , and the magic of the Paynim Saracens . 
I shame to speak I shame to think of the corruptions which have rushed in upon us even like a flood . 
The soldiers of the See the th chapter of Leviticus . 
'' No , Mont Fitchet , '' answered the stern old man it must be sharp and sudden the Order is on the crisis of its fate . 
The sobriety , self devotion , and piety of our predecessors , made us powerful friends our presumption , our wealth , our luxury , have raised up against us mighty enemies . 
'' Now may God avert such a calamity ! '' said the Preceptor . 
Amen , '' said the Grand Master , with solemnity , but we must deserve his aid . 
entered the garden , and , bowing profoundly before the Grand Master , stood silent , awaiting his permission ere he presumed to tell his errand . 
It imports us especially to know of this Bois Guilbert's proceedings , '' said he , turning to his companion . 
Report speaks him brave and valiant , '' said Conrade . 
And truly is he so spoken of , '' said the Grand Master in our valour only we are not degenerated from our predecessors , the heroes of the Cross . 
Damian , '' he continued , lead the Jew to our presence . 
'' The squire departed with a profound reverence , and in a few minutes returned , marshalling in Isaac of York . 
When he had approached within the distance of three yards , Beaumanoir made a sign with his staff that he should come no farther . 
Damian , '' said the Grand Master , retire , and have a guard ready to await our sudden call and suffer no one to enter the garden until we shall leave it . 
'' The squire bowed and retreated . 
Jew , '' continued the haughty old man , mark me . 
It suits not our condition to hold with thee long communication , nor do we waste words or time upon any one . 
'' The Jew was about to reply , but the Grand Master went on . 
Peace , unbeliever ! not a word in our presence , save in answer to our questions . 
What is thy business with our brother Brian de Bois Guilbert ? '' Isaac gasped with terror and uncertainty . 
Fear nothing , '' he said , for thy wretched person , Jew , so thou dealest uprightly in this matter . 
'' Said I not these were evil times , Conrade ? '' said the Master . 
A Cistertian Prior sends a letter to a soldier of the Temple , and can find no more fitting messenger than an unbelieving Jew . 
Back , dog ! '' said the Grand Master I touch not misbelievers , save with the sword . 
Conrade , take thou the letter from the Jew , and give it to me . 
'' Beaumanoir , being thus possessed of the tablets , inspected the outside carefully , and then proceeded to undo the packthread which secured its folds . 
Reverend father , '' said Conrade , interposing , though with much deference , wilt thou break the seal ? '' And will I not ? '' said Beaumanoir , with a frown . 
attend to the purport of it , for we will question thee concerning it . 
Wherefore we pray you heartily to beware , and to be found watching , even as the Holy Text hath it , Invenientur vigilantes . 
For what saith the text , Vinum l ae tificat cor hominis and again , Rex delectabitur pulchritudine tua . 
Till which merry meeting , we wish you farewell . 
Given from this den of thieves , about the hour of matins , Aymer Pr . 
Truly your golden chain hath not long abidden with me , and will now sustain , around the neck of an outlaw deer stealer , the whistle wherewith he calleth on his hounds . 
'' What sayest thou to this , Conrade ? '' said the Grand Master Den of thieves ! and a fit residence is a den of thieves for such a Prior . 
And what meaneth he , I trow , by this second Witch of Endor ? '' said he to his confident , something apart . 
There is more in it than thou dost guess , Conrade thy simplicity is no match for this deep abyss of wickedness . 
This Rebecca of York was a pupil of that Miriam of whom thou hast heard . 
Thou shalt hear the Jew own it even now . 
Many a one can testify that she hath recovered them by her art , when every other human aid hath proved vain but the blessing of the God of Jacob was upon her . 
'' Beaumanoir turned to Mont Fitchet with a grim smile . 
Well said our blessed rule , Semper percutiatur leo vorans . 
'' Nay , reverend and brave Knight , '' answered Isaac , but in chief measure by a balsam of marvellous virtue . 
'' Where had she that secret ? '' said Beaumanoir . 
It was delivered to her , '' answered Isaac , reluctantly , by Miriam , a sage matron of our tribe . 
There , Damian , spurn this Jew from the gate shoot him dead if he oppose or turn again . 
With his daughter we will deal as the Christian law and our own high office warrant . 
'' Poor Isaac was hurried off accordingly , and expelled from the preceptory all his entreaties , and even his offers , unheard and disregarded . 
He could do not better than return to the house of the Rabbi , and endeavour , through his means , to learn how his daughter was to be disposed of . 
He had hitherto feared for her honour , he was now to tremble for her life . 
Meanwhile , the Grand Master ordered to his presence the Preceptor of Templestowe . 
CHAPTER XXXVI Say not my art is fraud all live by seeming . 
Had not the arrival of the Grand Master been so unexpectedly sudden , he would have seen nothing at Templestowe which might have appeared to argue any relaxation of discipline . 
He read in the looks of Beaumanoir ruin to Bois Guilbert and to himself , unless he should be able to avert the impending storm . 
Why are you mute ? '' continued the Grand Master . 
Surely , most reverend father , '' answered the Preceptor , I have not risen to this office in the Order , being ignorant of one of its most important prohibitions . 
'' Hath nothing , then , as yet passed betwixt them in breach of his vow ? '' demanded the Grand Master . 
But since your reverend wisdom hath discovered this Jewish quean to be a sorceress , perchance it may account fully for his enamoured folly . 
'' It doth ! it doth ! '' said Beaumanoir . 
Three hundred Saracens hath this Brian de Bois Guilbert slain with his own hand . 
But concerning this foul witch , who hath flung her enchantments over a brother of the Holy Temple , assuredly she shall die the death . 
The laws of England , '' interrupted Beaumanoir , permit and enjoin each judge to execute justice within his own jurisdiction . 
The most petty baron may arrest , try , and condemn a witch found within his own domain . 
And shall that power be denied to the Grand Master of the Temple within a preceptory of his Order ? No ! we will judge and condemn . 
The witch shall be taken out of the land , and the wickedness thereof shall be forgiven . 
Prepare the Castle hall for the trial of the sorceress . 
It was not long ere he found him , foaming with indignation at a repulse he had anew sustained from the fair Jewess . 
I was the butt of a hundred arrows they rattled on mine armour like hailstones against a latticed casement , and the only use I made of my shield was for her protection . 
I neglected nothing that could keep secret your mystery but it is betrayed , and whether by the devil or no , the devil only can tell . 
But I have turned the matter as I could you are safe if you renounce Rebecca . 
You are pitied the victim of magical delusion . 
She is a sorceress , and must suffer as such . 
'' She shall not , by Heaven ! '' said Bois Guilbert . 
By Heaven , she must and will ! '' said Malvoisin . 
Neither you nor any one else can save her . 
'' Will future ages believe that such stupid bigotry ever existed ! '' said Bois Guilbert , striding up and down the apartment . 
'' I have it , '' said Bois Guilbert . 
Albert , thou art my friend . 
Thou must connive at her escape , Malvoisin , and I will transport her to some place of greater security and secrecy . 
'' I cannot , if I would , '' replied the Preceptor the mansion is filled with the attendants of the Grand Master , and others who are devoted to him . 
And , to be frank with you , brother , I would not embark with you in this matter , even if I could hope to bring my bark to haven . 
I have risked enough already for your sake . 
I have no mind to encounter a sentence of degradation , or even to lose my Preceptory , for the sake of a painted piece of Jewish flesh and blood . 
And you , if you will be guided by my counsel , will give up this wild goose chase , and fly your hawk at some other game . 
Think , Bois Guilbert , thy present rank , thy future honours , all depend on thy place in the Order . 
Shouldst thou adhere perversely to thy passion for this Rebecca , thou wilt give Beaumanoir the power of expelling thee , and he will not neglect it . 
He is jealous of the truncheon which he holds in his trembling gripe , and he knows thou stretchest thy bold hand towards it . 
Doubt not he will ruin thee , if thou affordest him a pretext so fair as thy protection of a Jewish sorceress . 
Give him his scope in this matter , for thou canst not control him . 
When the staff is in thine own firm grasp , thou mayest caress the daughters of Judah , or burn them , as may best suit thine own humour . 
I tell thee once more , that thou canst not save Rebecca . 
I tell thee once more , thou canst but perish with her . 
'' Thou speakest the truth , Malvoisin , '' said Brian de Bois Guilbert , after a moment's reflection . 
I will give the hoary bigot no advantage over me and for Rebecca , she hath not merited at my hand that I should expose rank and honour for her sake . 
'' What ! '' said Bois Guilbert , so soon ? '' Ay , '' replied the Preceptor , trial moves rapidly on when the judge has determined the sentence beforehand . 
The life and honour of Bois Guilbert must not be hazarded , where contempt and reproaches are his only reward . 
It is surely a dream , '' said the Preceptor we have many Jewish physicians , and we call them not wizards though they work wonderful cures . 
Were the souls of the twelve tribes in her single body , it were better she suffered alone , than that Bois Guilbert were partner in her destruction . 
'' Malvoisin , they must be found , '' said Conrade well will it advantage both the Order and thee . 
'' Away , seek them out instantly and hark thee , if a byzant or two will sharpen their memory , let them not be wanting . 
'' They would swear the mother that bore them a sorceress for a zecchin , '' said the Preceptor . 
Away , then , '' said Mont Fitchet at noon the affair will proceed . 
I have not seen our senior in such earnest preparation since he condemned to the stake Hamet Alfagi , a convert who relapsed to the Moslem faith . 
'' The ponderous castle bell had tolled the point of noon , when Rebecca heard a trampling of feet upon the private stair which led to her place of confinement . 
The door of the chamber was unlocked , and Conrade and the Preceptor Malvoisin entered , attended by four warders clothed in black , and bearing halberds . 
Daughter of an accursed race ! '' said the Preceptor , arise and follow us . 
'' Whither , '' said Rebecca , and for what purpose ? '' Damsel , '' answered Conrade , it is not for thee to question , but to obey . 
Nevertheless , be it known to thee , that thou art to be brought before the tribunal of the Grand Master of our holy Order , there to answer for thine offences . 
Most willingly do I follow thee permit me only to wrap my veil around my head . 
The assurance that she possessed some friend in this awful assembly gave her courage to look around , and to mark into whose presence she had been conducted . 
She gazed , accordingly , upon the scene , which we shall endeavour to describe in the next chapter . 
At his feet was placed a table , occupied by two scribes , chaplains of the Order , whose duty it was to reduce to formal record the proceedings of the day . 
Behind them , but still upon the dais or elevated portion of the hall , stood the esquires of the Order , in white dresses of an inferior quality . 
By far the greater part of those inferior persons were , in one rank or other , connected with the Order , and were accordingly distinguished by their black dresses . 
But peasants from the neighbouring country were not refused admittance for it was the pride of Beaumanoir to render the edifying spectacle of the justice which he administered as public as possible . 
When the sounds ceased , the Grand Master glanced his eye slowly around the circle , and observed that the seat of one of the Preceptors was vacant . 
Unhappy man ! '' said the Grand Master , after favouring him with a glance of compassion . 
Thou seest , Conrade , how this holy work distresses him . 
Semper Leo percutiatur ! '' This was communicated apart to his confidential follower , Conrade Mont Fitchet . 
The Grand Master then raised his voice , and addressed the assembly . 
Also , in all such chapters , it is our duty to hear the advice of our brethren , and to proceed according to our own pleasure . 
For various and heinous are the acts of transgression against the rule of our blessed Order in this lamentable history . 
st , He hath walked according to his proper will , contrary to capital , Quod nullus juxta propriam voluntatem incedat . 
d , He hath held communication with an excommunicated person , capital , Ut fratres non participent cum excommunicatis , and therefore hath a portion in Anathema Maranatha . 
d , He hath conversed with strange women , contrary to the capital , Ut fratres non conversantur cum extraneis mulieribus . 
For which heinous and multiplied guilt , Brian de Bois Guilbert should be cut off and cast out from our congregation , were he the right hand and right eye thereof . 
A low murmur went through the assembly . 
Such , '' he said , and so great should indeed be the punishment of a Knight Templar , who wilfully offended against the rules of his Order in such weighty points . 
Thus the dangers which Bois Guilbert surmounted , in themselves sufficiently great , became portentous in their narrative . 
The Preceptor of Templestowe was then called on to describe the manner in which Bois Guilbert and the Jewess arrived at the Preceptory . 
The evidence of Malvoisin was skilfully guarded . 
Joyfully will I submit to any penance he shall assign me . 
But thy conduct was wrong as he that would stop a runaway steed , and seizing by the stirrup instead of the bridle , receiveth injury himself , instead of accomplishing his purpose . 
Thirteen paternosters are assigned by our pious founder for matins , and nine for vespers be those services doubled by thee . 
Thrice a week are Templars permitted the use of flesh but do thou keep fast for all the seven days . 
This do for six weeks to come , and thy penance is accomplished . 
'' With a hypocritical look of the deepest submission , the Preceptor of Templestowe bowed to the ground before his Superior , and resumed his seat . 
Herman was an ancient warrior , whose face was marked with sears inflicted by the sabre of the Moslemah , and had great rank and consideration among his brethren . 
He arose and bowed to the Grand Master , who instantly granted him license of speech . 
I command thee to reply to him . 
'' Bois Guilbert turned his head towards the Grand Master when thus addressed , and remained silent . 
He is possessed by a dumb devil , '' said the Grand Master . 
Avoid thee , Sathanus ! Speak , Brian de Bois Guilbert , I conjure thee , by this symbol of our Holy Order . 
'' Bois Guilbert made an effort to suppress his rising scorn and indignation , the expression of which , he was well aware , would have little availed him . 
Brian de Bois Guilbert , '' he answered , replies not , most Reverend Father , to such wild and vague charges . 
If his honour be impeached , he will defend it with his body , and with that sword which has often fought for Christendom . 
'' A glance of disdain flashed from the dark fierce eyes of Bois Guilbert , but he made no reply . 
Let those who have aught to witness of the life and conversation of this Jewish woman , stand forth before us . 
Perfectly cured be certainly was not , for he supported himself forward on crutches to give evidence . 
I tell thee , the fiend can impose diseases for the very purpose of removing them , in order to bring into credit some diabolical fashion of cure . 
When this medical research was ended , the Saxon peasant desired humbly to have back the medicine which he had found so salutary but the Grand Master frowned severely at the request . 
What is thy name , fellow ? '' said he to the cripple . 
Higg , the son of Snell , '' answered the peasant . 
Go thou , and do as I have said . 
'' Out with the prating villain ! '' said Beaumanoir , who was not prepared to refute this practical application of his general maxim . 
At this period of the trial , the Grand Master commanded Rebecca to unveil herself . 
of her voice , and the softness of her reply , impressed on the audience a sentiment of pity and sympathy . 
'' She withdrew her veil , and looked on them with a countenance in which bashfulness contended with dignity . 
But Higg , the son of Snell , felt most deeply the effect produced by the sight of the countenance of his benefactress . 
Peace , I pray thee go home and save thyself . 
'' Higg was about to be thrust out by the compassion of the warders , who were apprehensive lest his clamorous grief should draw upon them reprehension , and upon himself punishment . 
But he promised to be silent , and was permitted to remain . 
The two men at arms , with whom Albert Malvoisin had not failed to communicate upon the import of their testimony , were now called forward . 
The circumstances of their evidence would have been , in modern days , divided into two classes those which were immaterial , and those which were actually and physically impossible . 
But both were , in those ignorant and superstitions times , easily credited as proofs of guilt . 
But there was less equivocal testimony , which the credulity of the assembly , or of the greater part , greedily swallowed , however incredible . 
One of the soldiers had seen her work a cure upon a wounded man , brought with them to the castle of Torquilstone . 
This legend was probably founded upon the fact , that Rebecca had attended on the wounded Ivanhoe when in the castle of Torquilstone . 
Less than one half of this weighty evidence would have been sufficient to convict any old woman , poor and ugly , even though she had not been a Jewess . 
United with that fatal circumstance , the body of proof was too weighty for Rebecca's youth , though combined with the most exquisite beauty . 
Nor will I even vindicate myself at the expense of my oppressor , who stands there listening to the fictions and surmises which seem to convert the tyrant into the victim . 
But he is of your own faith , and his lightest affirmance would weigh down the most solemn protestations of the distressed Jewess . 
When the whisper had ceased , the Grand Master spoke . 
Rebecca , thou canst derive no benefit from the evidence of this unhappy knight , for whom , as we well perceive , the Enemy is yet too powerful . 
Hast thou aught else to say ? '' There is yet one chance of life left to me , '' said Rebecca , even by your own fierce laws . 
Life has been miserable miserable , at least , of late but I will not cast away the gift of God , while he affords me the means of defending it . 
I deny this charge I maintain my innocence , and I declare the falsehood of this accusation I challenge the privilege of trial by combat , and will appear by my champion . 
But it is enough that I challenge the trial by combat there lies my gage . 
'' She took her embroidered glove from her hand , and flung it down before the Grand Master with an air of mingled simplicity and dignity , which excited universal surprise and admiration . 
CHAPTER XXXVIII There I throw my gage , To prove it on thee to the extremest point Of martial daring . 
Even Lucas Beaumanoir himself was affected by the mien and appearance of Rebecca . 
His features relaxed in their usual severity as he gazed upon the beautiful creature before him , alone , unfriended , and defending herself with so much spirit and courage . 
He crossed himself twice , as doubting whence arose the unwonted softening of a heart , which on such occasions used to resemble in hardness the steel of his sword . 
Damsel , '' he said , if the pity I feel for thee arise from any practice thine evil arts have made on me , great is thy guilt . 
But I rather judge it the kinder feelings of nature , which grieves that so goodly a form should be a vessel of perdition . 
Repent , my daughter confess thy witchcrafts turn thee from thine evil faith embrace this holy emblem , and all shall yet be well with thee here and hereafter . 
In some sisterhood of the strictest order , shalt thou have time for prayer and fitting penance , and that repentance not to be repented of . 
This , if ye are Christians , ye believe it is , you say , recalled but so my teachers have not taught me . 
Let me pray your answer to my demand of a champion . 
'' Give me her glove , '' said Beaumanoir . 
'' Cast my innocence into the scale , '' answered Rebecca , and the glove of silk shall outweigh the glove of iron . 
Moreover , we are knights and soldiers as well as men of religion , and shame it were to us upon any pretence , to refuse proffered combat . 
Thus , therefore , stands the case . 
'' Reverend father , '' answered the Preceptor of Goodalricke , no spell can effect the champion who comes forward to fight for the judgment of God . 
'' Thou sayest right , brother , '' said the Grand Master . 
Albert Malvoisin , give this gage of battle to Brian de Bois Guilbert . 
And do thou , Rebecca , attend , that we assign thee the third day from the present to find a champion . 
'' God's will be done ! '' said Rebecca I put my trust in Him , to whom an instant is as effectual to save as a whole age . 
'' Thou hast spoken well , damsel , '' said the Grand Master but well know we who can array himself like an angel of light . 
It remains but to name a fitting place of combat , and , if it so hap , also of execution . 
Where is the Preceptor of this house ? '' Albert Malvoisin , still holding Rebecca's glove in his hand , was speaking to Bois Guilbert very earnestly , but in a low voice . 
And for the place of combat , I hold the fittest to be the lists of Saint George belonging to this Preceptory , and used by us for military exercise . 
'' It is well , '' said the Grand Master . 
Let this our judgment be recorded , and the record read aloud , that no one may pretend ignorance . 
And therewith she proffered her gage . 
And may God aid the just cause ! '' Amen ! '' said the Grand Master and the word was echoed by all around . 
Rebecca spoke not , but she looked up to heaven , and , folding her hands , remained for a minute without change of attitude . 
It is just and lawful , '' said the Grand Master choose what messenger thou shalt trust , and he shall have free communication with thee in thy prison chamber . 
Not even the prospect of reward , far less any feelings of compassion alone , could surmount this apprehension . 
Alas ! when I boasted of thy charity , I little thought I was leading thee into danger ! '' God , '' said Rebecca , is the disposer of all . 
He can turn back the captivity of Judah , even by the weakest instrument . 
To execute his message the snail is as sure a messenger as the falcon . 
Seek out Isaac of York here is that will pay for horse and man let him have this scroll . 
Farewell ! Life and death are in thy haste . 
'' The peasant took the scroll , which contained only a few lines in Hebrew . 
Many of the crowd would have dissuaded him from touching a document so suspicious but Higg was resolute in the service of his benefactress . 
She had saved his body , he said , and he was confident she did not mean to peril his soul . 
I will get me , '' he said , my neighbour Buthan's good capul , and I will be at York within as Capul , i . 
horse in a more limited sense , work horse . 
brief space as man and beast may . 
Brother Ben Samuel , '' said Isaac , my soul is disquieted , and I wot not why . 
This charge of necromancy is right often used for cloaking evil practices on our people . 
The Rabbi now dismounted in great alarm , and hastily applied the remedies which his art suggested for the recovery of his companion . 
The physician was at first inclined to ascribe this sudden and violent emotion to the effects of insanity and , adhering to his original purpose , began once again to handle his implements . 
But Isaac soon convinced him of his error . 
She is captive unto those men of Belial , and they will wreak their cruelty upon her , sparing neither for her youth nor her comely favour . 
'' Yet read the scroll , '' said the Rabbi peradventure it may be that we may yet find out a way of deliverance . 
'' Do thou read , brother , '' answered Isaac , for mine eyes are as a fountain of water . 
Wherefore look now what thou doest , and whether there be any rescue . 
One Nazarene warrior might indeed bear arms in my behalf , even Wilfred , son of Cedric , whom the Gentiles call Ivanhoe . 
But he may not yet endure the weight of his armour . 
Gird up thy loins , and seek out this Wilfred , the son of Cedric . 
'' I will seek him out , '' said Isaac , for he is a good youth , and hath compassion for the exile of Jacob . 
With gold shalt thou buy their valour , even as with gold thou buyest thine own safety . 
Be of good courage , and do thou set forward to find out this Wilfred of Ivanhoe . 
I will also up and be doing , for great sin it were to leave thee in thy calamity . 
'' They embraced accordingly , and departed on their several roads . 
The crippled peasant remained for some time looking after them . 
I was not obliged to bring their unhallowed scrawls , and run the risk of being bewitched , as more folks than one told me . 
'' CHAPTER XXXIX O maid , unrelenting and cold as thou art , My bosom is proud as thine own . 
It disturbed not the inmate , who was then engaged in the evening prayer recommended by her religion , and which concluded with a hymn we have ventured thus to translate into English . 
When Israel , of the Lord beloved , Out of the land of bondage came , Her father's God before her moved , An awful guide , in smoke and flame . 
By day , along the astonish'd lands The cloudy pillar glided slow By night , Arabia's crimson'd sands Return'd the fiery column's glow . 
There rose the choral hymn of praise , And trump and timbrel answer'd keen , And Zion's daughters pour'd their lays , With priest's and warrior's voice between . 
No portents now our foes amaze , Forsaken Israel wanders lone Our fathers would not know Thy ways , And Thou hast left them to their own . 
But , present still , though now unseen When brightly shines the prosperous day , Be thoughts of Thee a cloudy screen To temper the deceitful ray . 
But Thou hast said , the blood of goat , The flesh of rams , I will not prize A contrite heart , and humble thought , Are mine accepted sacrifice . 
When the sounds of Rebecca's devotional hymn had died away in silence , the low knock at the door was again renewed . 
Enter , '' she said , if thou art a friend and if a foe , I have not the means of refusing thy entrance . 
'' I am , '' said Brian de Bois Guilbert , entering the apartment , friend or foe , Rebecca , as the event of this interview shall make me . 
You have no reason to fear me , Rebecca , '' said the Templar Or if I must so qualify my speech , you have at least now no reason to fear me . 
'' You have no cause , '' answered Bois Guilbert , gravely my former frantic attempts you have not now to dread . 
Within your call are guards , over whom I have no authority . 
'' May Heaven be praised ! '' said the Jewess death is the least of my apprehensions in this den of evil . 
'' Ay , '' replied the Templar , the idea of death is easily received by the courageous mind , when the road to it is sudden and open . 
Mark me I say this perhaps mine own sentiments of honour are not less fantastic , Rebecca , than thine are but we know alike how to die for them . 
Thy resolution may fluctuate on the wild and changeful billows of human opinion , but mine is anchored on the Rock of Ages . 
'' Silence , maiden , '' answered the Templar such discourse now avails but little . 
'' Truce with thine upbraidings , Rebecca , '' said the Templar I have my own cause of grief , and brook not that thy reproaches should add to it . 
'' What is thy purpose , then , Sir Knight ? '' said the Jewess speak it briefly . 
'' I perceive , Rebecca , '' said Bois Guilbert , that thou dost continue to burden me with the charge of distresses , which most fain would I have prevented . 
'' Thy patience , maiden , '' replied the Templar . 
No race knows so well as thine own tribes how to submit to the time , and so to trim their bark as to make advantage even of an adverse wind . 
Know that Bois Guilbert yields not to created man , although circumstances may for a time induce him to alter his plan . 
His will is the mountain stream , which may indeed be turned for a little space aside by the rock , but fails not to find its course to the ocean . 
Thus , Rebecca , should thine innocence have been avouched , and to thine own gratitude would I have trusted for the reward of my victory . 
'' This , Sir Knight , '' said Rebecca , is but idle boasting a brag of what you would have done had you not found it convenient to do otherwise . 
'' Speak , '' said Rebecca I understand thee not . 
'' Well , then , '' said Bois Guilbert , I will speak as freely as ever did doting penitent to his ghostly father , when placed in the tricky confessional . 
Such is my certain doom , except I appear in arms against thy cause . 
Ivanhoe , as thou well knowest , is unable to bear his corslet , and Richard is in a foreign prison . 
If I appear , then thou diest , even although thy charms should instigate some hot headed youth to enter the lists in thy defence . 
'' And what avails repeating this so often ? '' said Rebecca . 
Much , '' replied the Templar for thou must learn to look at thy fate on every side . 
'' Well , then , turn the tapestry , '' said the Jewess , and let me see the other side . 
So shall you give me protection without sacrifice on your part , or the pretext of requiring any requital from me . 
'' I weigh not these evils , '' said Rebecca , afraid to provoke the wild knight , yet equally determined neither to endure his passion , nor even feign to endure it . 
Listen to me , Rebecca , '' he said , again softening his tone England , Europe , is not the world . 
There are spheres in which we may act , ample enough even for my ambition . 
'' Never , Rebecca ! '' said the Templar , fiercely . 
If I renounce my Order , for thee alone will I renounce it Ambition shall remain mine , if thou refuse my love I will not be fooled on all hands . 
Stoop my crest to Richard ? ask a boon of that heart of pride ? Never , Rebecca , will I place the Order of the Temple at his feet in my person . 
I may forsake the Order , I never will degrade or betray it . 
'' Bois Guilbert , '' answered the Jewess , thou knowest not the heart of woman , or hast only conversed with those who are lost to her best feelings . 
'' Thou hast spoken the Jew , '' said Rebecca , as the persecution of such as thou art has made him . 
Heaven in ire has driven him from his country , but industry has opened to him the only road to power and to influence , which oppression has left unbarred . 
'' There is a spell on me , by Heaven ! '' said Bois Guilbert . 
I almost think yon besotted skeleton spoke truth , and that the reluctance with which I part from thee hath something in it more than is natural . 
Who would not weep for thee ? The tear , that has been a stranger to these eyelids for twenty years , moistens them as I gaze on thee . 
But it must be nothing may now save thy life . 
Forgive me , then , and let us part at least as friends part . 
I have assailed thy resolution in vain , and mine own is fixed as the adamantine decrees of fate . 
'' Thus , '' said Rebecca , do men throw on fate the issue of their own wild passions . 
But I do forgive thee , Bois Guilbert , though the author of my early death . 
I have been a child of battle from my youth upward , high in my views , steady and inflexible in pursuing them . 
Such must I remain proud , inflexible , and unchanging and of this the world shall have proof . 
But thou forgivest me , Rebecca ? '' As freely as ever victim forgave her executioner . 
'' Farewell , then , '' said the Templar , and left the apartment . 
The Preceptor Albert waited impatiently in an adjacent chamber the return of Bois Guilbert . 
Thou hast tarried long , '' he said I have been as if stretched on red hot iron with very impatience . 
What if the Grand Master , or his spy Conrade , had come hither ? I had paid dear for my complaisance . 
But what ails thee , brother ? Thy step totters , thy brow is as black as night . 
Art thou well , Bois Guilbert ? '' Ay , '' answered the Templar , as well as the wretch who is doomed to die within an hour . 
Nay , by the rood , not half so well for there be those in such state , who can lay down life like a cast off garment . 
By Heaven , Malvoisin , yonder girl hath wellnigh unmanned me . 
I am half resolved to go to the Grand Master , abjure the Order to his very teeth , and refuse to act the brutality which his tyranny has imposed on me . 
Beaumanoir will name another of the Order to defend his judgment in thy place , and the accused will as assuredly perish as if thou hadst taken the duty imposed on thee . 
'' Ay , but thou forgettest , '' said the wily adviser , thou wilt have neither leisure nor opportunity to execute this mad project . 
Go to Lucas Beaumanoir , and say thou hast renounced thy vow of obedience , and see how long the despotic old man will leave thee in personal freedom . 
Thou must to the lists , Brian , or thou art a lost and dishonoured man . 
'' I will break forth and fly , '' said Bois Guilbert fly to some distant land , to which folly and fanaticism have not yet found their way . 
No drop of the blood of this most excellent creature shall be spilled by my sanction . 
'' Thou canst not fly , '' said the Preceptor thy ravings have excited suspicion , and thou wilt not be permitted to leave the Preceptory . 
Go and make the essay present thyself before the gate , and command the bridge to be lowered , and mark what answer thou shalt receive . 
'' None whatever , '' said Malvoisin no more than the armed image of Saint George when it makes part of a procession . 
'' Well , I will resume my resolution , '' replied the haughty Templar . 
CHAPTER XL Shadows avaunt ! Richard's himself again . 
We will meet , '' he said to Ivanhoe , at Coningsburgh , the castle of the deceased Athelstane , since there thy father Cedric holds the funeral feast for his noble relation . 
I would see your Saxon kindred together , Sir Wilfred , and become better acquainted with them than heretofore . 
Thou also wilt meet me and it shall be my task to reconcile thee to thy father . 
'' So saying , he took an affectionate farewell of Ivanhoe , who expressed an anxious desire to attend upon his deliverer . 
But the Black Knight would not listen to the proposal . 
Rest this day thou wilt have scarce strength enough to travel on the next . 
I will have no guide with me but honest Wamba , who can play priest or fool as I shall be most in the humour . 
'' And I , '' said Wamba , will attend you with all my heart . 
Always , Sir Knight , I will trust your valour with making my excuse to my master Cedric , in case mine own wit should fail . 
'' And how should my poor valour succeed , Sir Jester , when thy light wit halts ? resolve me that . 
'' Wit , Sir Knight , '' replied the Jester , may do much . 
He is a quick , apprehensive knave , who sees his neighbours blind side , and knows how to keep the lee gage when his passions are blowing high . 
But valour is a sturdy fellow , that makes all split . 
'' Nay , '' said the Knight , an he have the gift of showing my road , I shall not grumble with him that he desires to make it pleasant . 
Fare thee well , kind Wilfred I charge thee not to attempt to travel till to morrow at earliest . 
Ivanhoe followed them with his eyes , until they were lost in the shades of the surrounding forest , and then returned into the convent . 
But shortly after matin song , he requested to see the Prior . 
The old man came in haste , and enquired anxiously after the state of his health . 
I feel already as if I could bear my corslet and so much the better , for thoughts pass in my mind which render me unwilling to remain here longer in inactivity . 
'' And what can have urged you to so sudden a departure ? '' said the Prior . 
Surely , '' said the worthy churchman you shall have mine own ambling jennet , and I would it ambled as easy for your sake as that of the Abbot of Saint Albans . 
I have composed many a homily on her back , to the edification of my brethren of the convent , and many poor Christian souls . 
'' I pray you , reverend father , '' said Ivanhoe , let Malkin be got ready instantly , and bid Gurth attend me with mine arms . 
The deep and sharp rowels with which Ivanhoe's . 
'' I thank you , reverend father , but will abide by your first offer , as I see Malkin is already led forth to the gate . 
Gurth shall carry mine armour and for the rest , rely on it , that as I will not overload Malkin's back , she shall not overcome my patience . 
She is at the most dangerous period for maidens as well as mares , '' said the old man , laughing at his own jest , being barely in her fifteenth year . 
And if they do none of these , as great men will forget little men's service , truly I shall hold me well repaid in having done that which is right . 
'' So the Prior of Saint Botolph's hobbled back again into the refectory , to preside over the stockfish and ale , which was just serving out for the friars' breakfast . 
Nevertheless , I have played the part of Anna Marie , to please you , fair sir . 
'' The Jester next struck into another carol , a sort of comic ditty , to which the Knight , catching up the tune , replied in the like manner . 
'' So would not I , '' said Wamba but for the horn that hangs at your baldric . 
'' Ay , '' said the Knight , this is a pledge of Locksley's good will , though I am not like to need it . 
Three mots on this bugle will , I am assured , bring round , at our need , a jolly band of yonder honest yeomen . 
'' I would say , Heaven forefend , '' said the Jester , were it not that that fair gift is a pledge they would let us pass peaceably . 
'' You hold our friends for robbers , then ? '' said the Knight of the Fetterlock . 
Only I would wish my mail at home , and my purse in my chamber , when I meet with these good fellows , because it might save them some trouble . 
'' We are bound to pray for them , my friend , notwithstanding the fair character thou dost afford them . 
'' Say as thou list , Wamba , '' replied the Knight , these yeomen did thy master Cedric yeomanly service at Torquilstone . 
'' Ay , truly , '' answered Wamba but that was in the fashion of their trade with Heaven . 
'' Their trade , Wamba ! how mean you by that ? '' replied his companion . 
Marry , thus , '' said the Jester . 
'' Give me an example of your meaning , Wamba , I know nothing of ciphers or rates of usage , '' answered the Knight . 
'' Which of these was the good deed , which was the felony ? '' interrupted the Knight . 
A good gibe ! a good gibe ! '' said Wamba keeping witty company sharpeneth the apprehension . 
You said nothing so well , Sir Knight , I will be sworn , when you held drunken vespers with the bluff Hermit . 
Gentle thieves they are , in short , and courteous robbers but it is ever the luckiest to meet with them when they are at the worst . 
'' How so , Wamba ? '' said the Knight . 
Why , then they have some compunction , and are for making up matters with Heaven . 
And yet , '' said Wamba , coming close up to the Knight's side , there be companions who are far more dangerous for travellers to meet than yonder outlaws . 
'' And who may they be , for you have neither bears nor wolves , I trow ? '' said the Knight . 
They are now expecting their harvest , and are reinforced with the soldiers that escaped from Torquilstone . 
So that , should we meet with a band of them , we are like to pay for our feats of arms . 
'' But what if there were four of them ? '' They should drink of the same cup , '' answered the Knight . 
'' The Knight undid the clasp of the baldric , and indulged his fellow traveller , who immediately hung the bugle round his own neck . 
Tra lira la , '' said he , whistling the notes nay , I know my gamut as well as another . 
'' How mean you , knave ? '' said the Knight restore me the bugle . 
'' Content you , Sir Knight , it is in safe keeping . 
When Valour and Folly travel , Folly should bear the horn , because she can blow the best . 
'' Nay but , rogue , '' said the Black Knight , this exceedeth thy license Beware ye tamper not with my patience . 
'' Nay , thou hast hit me there , '' said the Knight and , sooth to say , I have little time to jangle with thee . 
Keep the horn an thou wilt , but let us proceed on our journey . 
'' You will not harm me , then ? '' said Wamba . 
I tell thee no , thou knave ! '' Ay , but pledge me your knightly word for it , '' continued Wamba , as he approached with great caution . 
My knightly word I pledge only come on with thy foolish self . 
'' What makes thee judge so ? '' said the Knight . 
Because I have twice or thrice noticed the glance of a motion from amongst the green leaves . 
Had they been honest men , they had kept the path . 
But yonder thicket is a choice chapel for the Clerks of Saint Nicholas . 
'' By my faith , '' said the Knight , closing his visor , I think thou best in the right on't . 
The other two were averted by the gorget , and by the shield which hung around his neck . 
Thanks , trusty armourers , '' said the Knight . 
Wamba , let us close with them , '' and he rode straight to the thicket . 
He was met by six or seven men at arms , who ran against him with their lances at full career . 
Three of the weapons struck against him , and splintered with as little effect as if they had been driven against a tower of steel . 
The Black Knight's eyes seemed to flash fire even through the aperture of his visor . 
That was a felon stroke ! '' exclaimed the Black Knight , as the steed fell to the earth , bearing his rider along with him . 
And at this moment , Wamba winded the bugle , for the whole had passed so speedily , that he had not time to do so sooner . 
The sudden sound made the murderers bear back once more , and Wamba , though so imperfectly weaponed , did not hesitate to rush in and assist the Black Knight to rise . 
Open the visor of that Blue Knight , Wamba , who seems the chief of these villains . 
Come , valiant sir , '' said Wamba , I must be your armourer as well as your equerry I have dismounted you , and now I will unhelm you . 
'' Revenge ? '' answered the Black Knight I never wronged thee On me thou hast nought to revenge . 
And now , Waldemar Fitzurse , say me the truth confess who set thee on this traitorous deed . 
'' Thy father's son , '' answered Waldemar , who , in so doing , did but avenge on thee thy disobedience to thy father . 
'' Richard's eyes sparkled with indignation , but his better nature overcame it . 
He pressed his hand against his brow , and remained an instant gazing on the face of the humbled baron , in whose features pride was contending with shame . 
Thou dost not ask thy life , Waldemar , '' said the King . 
He that is in the lion's clutch , '' answered Fitzurse , knows it were needless . 
'' Take it , then , unasked , '' said Richard the lion preys not on prostrate carcasses . 
I will hang thee out to feed the ravens , from the very pinnacle of thine own castle . 
Let this knight have a steed , Locksley , for I see your yeomen have caught those which were running loose , and let him depart unharmed . 
Arise , my liegemen , and be good subjects in future . 
'' True says the proverb , '' said Wamba , interposing his word , but with some abatement of his usual petulance , When the cat is away , The mice will play . 
'' What , Wamba , art thou there ? '' said Richard I have been so long of hearing thy voice , I thought thou hadst taken flight . 
It is true , I gave a little ground at first , for a motley jacket does not brook lance heads , as a steel doublet will . 
But if I fought not at sword's point , you will grant me that I sounded the onset . 
'' And to good purpose , honest Wamba , '' replied the King . 
Thy good service shall not be forgotten . 
Yet this demure affectation of extreme penitence was whimsically belied by a ludicrous meaning which lurked in his huge features , and seemed to pronounce his fear and repentance alike hypocritical . 
it is not the crosier I fear , but the sceptre . 
Who has seen the accursed Tuck ? says another . 
The unfrocked villain destroys more venison than half the country besides , says one keeper And is hunting after every shy doe in the country ! quoth a second . 
'' I understand thee , '' said the King , and the Holy Clerk shall have a grant of vert and venison in my woods of Warncliffe . 
'' Your Grace may be well assured , '' said the Friar , that , with the grace of Saint Dunstan , I shall find the way of multiplying your most bounteous gift . 
'' I will answer for my patron , '' said the Priest , joyously . 
Thou dost less honour to my extended palm than to my clenched fist , '' said the Monarch thou didst only kneel to the one , and to the other didst prostrate thyself . 
At the same time , two additional personages appeared on the scene . 
The new comers were Wilfred of Ivanhoe , on the Prior of Botolph's palfrey , and Gurth , who attended him , on the Knight's own war horse . 
He hesitated whether to address the King as the Black Knight errant , or in what other manner to demean himself towards him . 
Which of us has most reason to upbraid the other ? Yet forgive me , my faithful Wilfred . 
Estoteville and Bohun will not be strong enough to move forward to York for twenty four hours . 
I must have news of Salisbury from the south and of Beauchamp , in Warwickshire and of Multon and Percy in the north . 
The Chancellor must make sure of London . 
King of Outlaws , '' he said , have you no refreshment to offer to your brother sovereign ? for these dead knaves have found me both in exercise and appetite . 
'' In troth , '' replied the Outlaw , for I scorn to lie to your Grace , our larder is chiefly supplied with '' He stopped , and was somewhat embarrassed . 
Novelty in society and adventure were the zest of life to Richard C oe ur de Lion , and it had its highest relish when enhanced by dangers encountered and surmounted . 
But in his present company Richard showed to the greatest imaginable advantage . 
He was gay , good humoured , and fond of manhood in every rank of life . 
As the flagon went round , the rough foresters soon lost their awe for the presence of Majesty . 
The merry King , nothing heeding his dignity any more than his company , laughed , quaffed , and jested among the jolly band . 
'' It must be by your management then , gallant yeoman , '' said Ivanhoe for each hint I have essayed to give him serves only to induce him to prolong it . 
'' Must I so soon risk the pardon and favour of my Sovereign ? '' said Robin Hood , pausing for all instant but by Saint Christopher , it shall be so . 
I were undeserving his grace did I not peril it for his good . 
Here , Scathlock , get thee behind yonder thicket , and wind me a Norman blast on thy bugle , and without an instant's delay on peril of your life . 
'' Scathlock obeyed his captain , and in less than five minutes the revellers were startled by the sound of his horn . 
It is the bugle of Malvoisin , '' said the Miller , starting to his feet , and seizing his bow . 
The Friar dropped the flagon , and grasped his quarter staff Wamba stopt short in the midst of a jest , and betook himself to sword and target . 
All the others stood to their weapons . 
Men of their precarious course of life change readily from the banquet to the battle and , to Richard , the exchange seemed but a succession of pleasure . 
Thou hast fought for me an hundred times , Wilfred , and I have seen it . 
Thou shalt this day look on , and see how Richard will fight for his friend and liegeman . 
For what , good yeoman ? '' said Richard , somewhat impatiently . 
The blood rushed in anger to the countenance of Richard but it was the first transient emotion , and his sense of justice instantly subdued it . 
Thou art right , however , good fellow . 
Let us therefore to horse and away Wilfred has been impatient this hour . 
But come , sirs , let us merrily on to Coningsburgh , and think no more on't . 
There are few more beautiful or striking scenes in England , than are presented by the vicinity of this ancient Saxon fortress . 
The outer walls have probably been added by the Normans , but the inner keep bears token of very great antiquity . 
It is situated on a mount at one angle of the inner court , and forms a complete circle of perhaps twenty five feet in diameter . 
Note I. Castle of Coningsburgh . 
When C oe ur de Lion and his retinue approached this rude yet stately building , it was not , as at present , surrounded by external fortifications . 
The Saxon architect had exhausted his art in rendering the main keep defensible , and there was no other circumvallation than a rude barrier of palisades . 
A huge black banner , which floated from the top of the tower , announced that the obsequies of the late owner were still in the act of being solemnized . 
It bore no emblem of the deceased's birth or quality , for armorial bearings were then a novelty among the Norman chivalry themselves and , were totally unknown to the Saxons . 
The wealth and consequence of the deceased Athelstane , occasioned this custom to be observed in the fullest extent . 
In one place cooks were toiling to roast huge oxen , and fat sheep in another , hogsheads of ale were set abroach , to be drained at the freedom of all comers . 
Groups of every description were to be seen devouring the food and swallowing the liquor thus abandoned to their discretion . 
One sent forth the praises The crowth , or crowd , was a species of violin . 
The rote a sort of guitar , or rather hurdy gurdy , the strings of which were managed by a wheel , from which the instrument took its name . 
of Athelstane in a doleful panegyric another , in a Saxon genealogical poem , rehearsed the uncouth and harsh names of his noble ancestry . 
Jesters and jugglers were not awanting , nor was the occasion of the assembly supposed to render the exercise of their profession indecorous or improper . 
Indeed the ideas of the Saxons on these occasions were as natural as they were rude . 
Such was the scene in the castle yard at Coningsburgh when it was entered by Richard and his followers . 
Gurth and Wamba speedily found acquaintances in the court yard , nor presumed to intrude themselves any farther until their presence should be required . 
CHAPTER XLII I find them winding of Marcello's corpse . 
The mode of entering the great tower of Coningsburgh Castle is very peculiar , and partakes of the rude simplicity of the early times in which it was erected . 
The access to the upper apartments in the tower which consist in all of four stories , is given by stairs which are carried up through the external buttresses . 
There were assembled in this apartment , around a large oaken table , about a dozen of the most distinguished representatives of the Saxon families in the adjacent counties . 
The downcast and sorrowful looks of these venerable men , their silence and their mournful posture , formed a strong contrast to the levity of the revellers on the outside of the castle . 
Cedric , seated in equal rank among his countrymen , seemed yet , by common consent , to act as chief of the assembly . 
he arose gravely , and gave him welcome by the ordinary salutation , Waes hael , raising at the same time a goblet to his head . 
The same courtesy was offered to Ivanhoe , who pledged his father in silence , supplying the usual speech by an inclination of his head , lest his voice should have been recognised . 
Her countenance expressed the deepest sorrow that is consistent with resignation . 
And this , in especial , is the valiant Knight who fought so bravely for the deliverance of him for whom we this day mourn . 
His bravery has my thanks , '' returned the lady although it be the will of Heaven that it should be displayed in vain . 
To your care , kind kinsman , I intrust them , satisfied that they will want no hospitality which these sad walls can yet afford . 
'' The guests bowed deeply to the mourning parent , and withdrew from their hospitable guide . 
Another winding stair conducted them to an apartment of the same size with that which they had first entered , occupying indeed the story immediately above . 
From this room , ere yet the door was opened , proceeded a low and melancholy strain of vocal music . 
When they entered , they found themselves in the presence of about twenty matrons and maidens of distinguished Saxon lineage . 
Through paths unknown Thy soul hath flown , To seek the realms of woe , Where fiery pain Shall purge the stain Of actions done below . 
In that sad place , By Mary's grace , Brief may thy dwelling be Till prayers and alms , And holy psalms , Shall set the captive free . 
at all diminished by the appearance of two strange knights , which occasioned some looking up , peeping , and whispering . 
Rowena alone , too proud to be vain , paid her greeting to her deliverer with a graceful courtesy . 
'' It may be doubted whether this communication went a far way to increase Wilfred's disposition to sympathize with the mourners of Coningsburgh . 
He assured them of every accommodation , and was about to withdraw when the Black Knight took his hand . 
'' Nor do I wish to mingle , '' said the King , mildly , unless in so far as you will admit me to have an interest . 
As yet you have known me but as the Black Knight of the Fetterlock Know me now as Richard Plantagenet . 
'' Richard of Anjou ! '' exclaimed Cedric , stepping backward with the utmost astonishment . 
No , noble Cedric Richard of England ! whose deepest interest whose deepest wish , is to see her sons united with each other . 
And , how now , worthy Thane ! hast thou no knee for thy prince ? '' To Norman blood , '' said Cedric , it hath never bended . 
'' Reserve thine homage then , '' said the Monarch , until I shall prove my right to it by my equal protection of Normans and English . 
But Matilda , though of the royal Saxon blood , was not the heir to the monarchy . 
'' Thou sayest well , Sir King for King I own thou art , and wilt be , despite of my feeble opposition . 
I require of thee , as a man of thy word , on pain of being held faithless , man sworn , and nidering , Infamous . 
to forgive and receive to thy paternal affection the good knight , Wilfred of Ivanhoe . 
In this reconciliation thou wilt own I have an interest the happiness of my friend , and the quelling of dissension among my faithful people . 
'' And this is Wilfred ! '' said Cedric , pointing to his son . 
The son of Hereward knows how to keep his word , even when it has been passed to a Norman . 
But let me see thee use the dress and costume of thy English ancestry no short cloaks , no gay bonnets , no fantastic plumage in my decent household . 
He that would be the son of Cedric , must show himself of English ancestry . 
Thou art about to speak , '' he added , sternly , and I guess the topic . 
The ghost of Athelstane himself would burst his bloody cerements and stand before us to forbid such dishonour to his memory . 
The effect of this apparition on the persons present was utterly appalling . 
'' You thought amiss , Sir Knight , '' said Athelstane , and Wamba lied . 
But as it was , down I went , stunned , indeed , but unwounded . 
placed before the altar of the church of Saint Edmund's . 
I asked for wine they gave me some , but it must have been highly medicated , for I slept yet more deeply than before , and wakened not for many hours . 
I had strange thoughts of what had befallen me , when the door of my dungeon creaked , and two villain monks entered . 
They would have persuaded me I was in purgatory , but I knew too well the pursy short breathed voice of the Father Abbot . 
Saint Jeremy ! how different from that tone with which he used to ask me for another slice of the haunch ! the dog has feasted with me from Christmas to Twelfth night . 
'' Ay but , by the rood of Bromeholm , there was no romance in the matter ! '' said Athelstane . 
I heard them droning out their death psalms , little judging they were sung in respect for my soul by those who were thus famishing my body . 
They went , however , and I waited long for food no wonder the gouty Sacristan was even too busy with his own provender to mind mine . 
At length down he came , with an unstable step and a strong flavour of wine and spices about his person . 
Good cheer had opened his heart , for he left me a nook of pasty and a flask of wine , instead of my former fare . 
The light , the food , the wine , set my invention to work . 
The staple to which my chains were fixed , was more rusted than I or the villain Abbot had supposed . 
Even iron could not remain without consuming in the damps of that infernal dungeon . 
'' Take breath , noble Athelstane , said Richard , and partake of some refreshment , ere you proceed with a tale so dreadful . 
Both stood aghast but when I knocked down the Sacristan with my fist , the other fellow , his pot companion , fetched a blow at me with a huge quarter staff . 
'' This must be our Friar Tuck , for a count's ransom , '' said Richard , looking at Ivanhoe . 
He may be the devil , an he will , '' said Athelstane . 
Fortunately be missed the aim and on my approaching to grapple with him , took to his heels and ran for it . 
'' And you have found me , '' said Cedric , ready to resume our brave projects of honour and liberty . 
I tell thee , never will dawn a morrow so auspicious as the next , for the deliverance of the noble Saxon race . 
'' Talk not to me of delivering any one , '' said Athelstane it is well I am delivered myself . 
I am more intent on punishing that villain Abbot . 
'' But , my son , '' said Edith , consider his sacred office . 
'' Consider my three days' fast , '' replied Athelstane I will have their blood every one of them . 
Were they the best monks upon earth , the world would go on without them . 
'' For shame , noble Athelstane , '' said Cedric forget such wretches in the career of glory which lies open before thee . 
'' Ay , by my faith ! '' said Athelstane and my duty as a subject besides , for I here tender him my allegiance , heart and hand . 
'' My son , '' said Edith , think on thy royal rights ! '' Think on the freedom of England , degenerate Prince ! '' said Cedric . 
One half of those vain follies were puffed into mine ear by that perfidious Abbot Wolfram , and you may now judge if he is a counsellor to be trusted . 
I tell you , I will be king in my own domains , and nowhere else and my first act of dominion shall be to hang the Abbot . 
'' And my ward Rowena , '' said Cedric I trust you intend not to desert her ? '' Father Cedric , '' said Athelstane , be reasonable . 
The Lady Rowena cares not for me she loves the little finger of my kinsman Wilfred's glove better than my whole person . 
'' All now looked around and enquired for Ivanhoe , but he had vanished . 
Certainly , '' quoth Athelstane , women are the least to be trusted of all animals , monks and abbots excepted . 
By my halidome ! '' said Athelstane , it is certain that Zernebock hath possessed himself of my castle in my absence . 
It was a scene of bustle and life , as if the whole vicinity had poured forth its inhabitants to a village wake , or rural feast . 
This enclosure was formed on a piece of level ground adjoining to the Preceptory , which had been levelled with care , for the exercise of military and chivalrous sports . 
On the present occasion , a throne was erected for the Grand Master at the east end , surrounded with seats of distinction for the Preceptors and Knights of the Order . 
Over these floated the sacred standard , called Le Beau seant , which was the ensign , as its name was the battle cry , of the Templars . 
These men stirred not , excepting now and then , under the direction of one who seemed their chief , to shift and replace the ready fuel . 
They looked not on the multitude . 
In fact , they seemed insensible of their presence , and of every thing save the discharge of their own horrible duty . 
'' That last part of thy speech , Dennet , '' said the Minstrel , has saved thee a rib or twain . 
Why , the tale is but this Athelstane of Coningsburgh was buried at Saint Edmund's . 
'' That's a lie , and a loud one , '' said the Friar , for I saw him borne to his own Castle of Coningsburgh . 
'' So ho ! Friar Tuck , '' said the Minstrel , drawing him apart from the rustics we have started a new hare , I find . 
'' I tell thee , Allan a Dale , '' said the Hermit , I saw Athelstane of Coningsburgh as much as bodily eyes ever saw a living man . 
He had his shroud on , and all about him smelt of the sepulchre A butt of sack will not wash it out of my memory . 
His general appearance was grand and commanding but , looking at him with attention , men read that in his dark features , from which they willingly withdrew their eyes . 
On either side rode Conrade of Mont Fitchet , and Albert de Malvoisin , who acted as godfathers to the champion . 
They were in their robes of peace , the white dress of the Order . 
Behind them followed other Companions of the Temple , with a long train of esquires and pages clad in black , aspirants to the honour of being one day Knights of the Order . 
A crowd of inferior personages belonging to the Preceptory followed the victim , all moving with the utmost order , with arms folded , and looks bent upon the ground . 
The unfortunate Rebecca was conducted to the black chair placed near the pile . 
'' Hath he made oath , '' said the Grand Master , that his quarrel is just and honourable ? Bring forward the Crucifix and the Te igitur . 
The Grand Master , having allowed the apology of Albert Malvoisin , commanded the herald to stand forth and do his devoir . 
The trumpets then again flourished , and a herald , stepping forward , proclaimed aloud , Oyez , oyez , oyez . 
'' The trumpets again sounded , and there was a dead pause of many minutes . 
No champion appears for the appellant , '' said the Grand Master . 
Go , herald , and ask her whether she expects any one to do battle for her in this her cause . 
Is this regular , and according to the law of combat ? '' said Malvoisin , looking to the Grand Master . 
When the day is so far passed , let her prepare for death . 
Rebecca , '' said the Templar , dost thou hear me ? '' I have no portion in thee , cruel , hard hearted man , '' said the unfortunate maiden . 
Ay , but dost thou understand my words ? '' said the Templar for the sound of my voice is frightful in mine own ears . 
I scarce know on what ground we stand , or for what purpose they have brought us hither . 
'' Dreams , Rebecca , dreams , '' answered the Templar idle visions , rejected by the wisdom of your own wiser Sadducees . 
Hear me , Rebecca , '' he said , proceeding with animation a better chance hast thou for life and liberty than yonder knaves and dotard dream of . 
Mount thee behind me on my steed on Zamor , the gallant horse that never failed his rider . 
Hath the maiden acknowledged her guilt ? '' he demanded of Bois Guilbert or is she resolute in her denial ? '' She is indeed resolute , '' said Bois Guilbert . 
'' As he spoke in this soothing tone , he laid his hand on the knight's bridle , as if to lead him back to his station . 
False villain ! what meanest thou by thy hand on my rein ? '' said Sir Brian , angrily . 
And shaking off his companion's grasp , he rode back to the upper end of the lists . 
There is yet spirit in him , '' said Malvoisin apart to Mont Fitchet , were it well directed but , like the Greek fire , it burns whatever approaches it . 
'' The Judges had now been two hours in the lists , awaiting in vain the appearance of a champion . 
At this instant a knight , urging his horse to speed , appeared on the plain advancing towards the lists . 
'' The stranger must first show , '' said Malvoisin , that he is good knight , and of honourable lineage . 
The Temple sendeth not forth her champions against nameless men . 
'' My name , '' said the Knight , raising his helmet , is better known , my lineage more pure , Malvoisin , than thine own . 
I am Wilfred of Ivanhoe . 
'' I will not fight with thee at present , '' said the Templar , in a changed and hollow voice . 
Get thy wounds healed , purvey thee a better horse , and it may be I will hold it worth my while to scourge out of thee this boyish spirit of bravade . 
I may not deny what thou hast challenged , '' said the Grand Master , provided the maiden accepts thee as her champion . 
Yet I would thou wert in better plight to do battle . 
An enemy of our Order hast thou ever been , yet would I have thee honourably met with . 
'' Thus thus as I am , and not otherwise , '' said Ivanhoe it is the judgment of God to his keeping I commend myself . 
The Grand Master , who held in his hand the gage of battle , Rebecca's glove , now threw it into the lists , and pronounced the fatal signal words , Laissez aller . 
The trumpets sounded , and the knights charged each other in full career . 
The wearied horse of Ivanhoe , and its no less exhausted rider , went down , as all had expected , before the well aimed lance and vigorous steed of the Templar . 
Ivanhoe , extricating himself from his fallen horse , was soon on foot , hastening to mend his fortune with his sword but his antagonist arose not . 
Wilfred , placing his foot on his breast , and the sword's point to his throat , commanded him to yield him , or die on the spot . 
Bois Guilbert returned no answer . 
Slay him not , Sir Knight , '' cried the Grand Master , unshriven and unabsolved kill not body and soul ! We allow him vanquished . 
'' He descended into the lists , and commanded them to unhelm the conquered champion . 
His eyes were closed the dark red flush was still on his brow . 
As they looked on him in astonishment , the eyes opened but they were fixed and glazed . 
The flush passed from his brow , and gave way to the pallid hue of death . 
Unscathed by the lance of his enemy , he had died a victim to the violence of his own contending passions . 
I pronounce the maiden free and guiltless The arms and the body of the deceased knight are at the will of the victor . 
But let his obsequies be private , as becomes those of a man who died in an unjust quarrel . 
He was followed by a numerous band of men at arms , and several knights in complete armour . 
I am too late , '' he said , looking around him . 
I had doomed Bois Guilbert for mine own property . 
He was not to be honoured in dying as your will had designed . 
'' The Grand Master had hitherto stood astonished at the appearance of so many warriors . 
'' And he arrests Malvoisin , '' said the King , raising his visor , by the order of Richard Plantagenet , here present . 
Conrade Mont Fitchet , it is well for thee thou art born no subject of mine . 
But for thee , Malvoisin , thou diest with thy brother Philip , ere the world be a week older . 
'' I will resist thy doom , '' said the Grand Master . 
'' I will appeal to Rome against thee , '' said the Grand Master , for usurpation on the immunities and privileges of our Order . 
'' Be it so , '' said the King but for thine own sake tax me not with usurpation now . 
, which has not been made the scene of treasonable conspiracy against the King of England Or , if thou wilt , remain , to share our hospitality , and behold our justice . 
They gathered around him like the sheep around the watch dog , when they hear the baying of the wolf . 
But they evinced not the timidity of the scared flock there were dark brows of defiance , and looks which menaced the hostility they dared not to proffer in words . 
The Pope and Princes of Europe shall judge our quarrel , and whether a Christian prince has done well in bucklering the cause which thou hast to day adopted . 
If unassailed , we depart assailing no one . 
'' With these words , and without waiting a reply , the Grand Master gave the signal of departure . 
Their trumpets sounded a wild march , of an Oriental character , which formed the usual signal for the Templars to advance . 
By the splendour of Our Lady's brow ! '' said King Richard , it is pity of their lives that these Templars are not so trusty as they are disciplined and valiant . 
But one word from Isaac at length recalled her scattered feelings . 
Let us go , '' he said , my dear daughter , my recovered treasure let us go to throw ourselves at the feet of the good youth . 
The Jewess , whose fortunes had formed the principal interest of the day , having now retired unobserved , the attention of the populace was transferred to the Black Knight . 
'' The Earl smiled and shook his head . 
I accompanied him with my band , almost maugre his consent . 
'' I forgive thee the jest , Lord Earl , '' said Ivanhoe but , remember , I hazarded but my own life Richard , the welfare of his kingdom . 
Cedric tushed and pshawed more than once at the message but he refused not obedience . 
to the clerical order , had terminated in his keeping the Abbot and his monks in the dungeons of Coningsburgh for three days on a meagre diet . 
And when Rowena's name was mentioned the noble Athelstane prayed leave to quaff a full goblet to her health , and that she might soon be the bride of his kinsman Wilfred . 
It was a desperate case therefore . 
There remained betwixt Cedric and the determination which the lovers desired to come to , only two obstacles his own obstinacy , and his dislike of the Norman dynasty . 
The former feeling gradually gave way before the endearments of his ward , and the pride which he could not help nourishing in the fame of his son . 
The nuptials of our hero , thus formally approved by his father , were celebrated in the most august of temples , the noble Minster of York . 
The Church gave her full solemnities , graced with all the splendour which she of Rome knows how to apply with such brilliant effect . 
Sharers of Wilfred's dangers and adversity , they remained , as they had a right to expect , the partakers of his more prosperous career . 
Rowena wondered , hesitated , became curious , and ended by commanding the damsel to be admitted , and her attendants to withdraw . 
She entered a noble and commanding figure , the long white veil , in which she was shrouded , overshadowing rather than concealing the elegance and majesty of her shape . 
Her demeanour was that of respect , unmingled by the least shade either of fear , or of a wish to propitiate favour . 
Rowena was ever ready to acknowledge the claims , and attend to the feelings , of others . 
She arose , and would have conducted her lovely visitor to a seat but the stranger looked at Elgitha , and again intimated a wish to discourse with the Lady Rowena alone . 
'' Damsel , '' said Rowena , Wilfred of Ivanhoe on that day rendered back but in slight measure your unceasing charity towards him in his wounds and misfortunes . 
Speak , is there aught remains in which he or I can serve thee ? '' Nothing , '' said Rebecca , calmly , unless you will transmit to him my grateful farewell . 
'' You leave England then ? '' said Rowena , scarce recovering the surprise of this extraordinary visit . 
I leave it , lady , ere this moon again changes . 
'' And are you not then as well protected in England ? '' said Rowena . 
My husband has favour with the King the King himself is just and generous . 
Such is no safe abode for the children of my people . 
Ephraim is an heartless dove Issachar an over laboured drudge , which stoops between two burdens . 
Not in a land of war and blood , surrounded by hostile neighbours , and distracted by internal factions , can Israel hope to rest during her wanderings . 
'' But you , maiden , '' said Rowena you surely can have nothing to fear . 
'' Thy speech is fair , lady , '' said Rebecca , and thy purpose fairer but it may not be there is a gulf betwixt us . 
Our breeding , our faith , alike forbid either to pass over it . 
Farewell yet , ere I go indulge me one request . 
The bridal veil hangs over thy face deign to raise it , and let me see the features of which fame speaks so highly . 
'' They are scarce worthy of being looked upon , '' said Rowena but , expecting the same from my visitant , I remove the veil . 
Lady , '' she said , the countenance you have deigned to show me will long dwell in my remembrance . 
She hastily wiped them , and answered to the anxious enquiries of Rowena I am well , lady well . 
But my heart swells when I think of Torquilstone and the lists of Templestowe . 
One , the most trifling part of my duty , remains undischarged . 
Accept this casket startle not at its contents . 
'' Rowena opened the small silver chased casket , and perceived a carcanet , or neck lace , with ear jewels , of diamonds , which were obviously of immense value . 
It is impossible , '' she said , tendering back the casket . 
I dare not accept a gift of such consequence . 
'' Yet keep it , lady , '' returned Rebecca . 
To you , therefore , the gift is of little value , and to me , what I part with is of much less . 
Let me not think you deem so wretchedly ill of my nation as your commons believe . 
I will never wear jewels more . 
'' You are then unhappy ! '' said Rowena , struck with the manner in which Rebecca uttered the last words . 
O , remain with us the counsel of holy men will wean you from your erring law , and I will be a sister to you . 
'' No , lady , '' answered Rebecca , the same calm melancholy reigning in her soft voice and beautiful features that may not be . 
I may not change the faith of my fathers like a garment unsuited to the climate in which I seek to dwell , and unhappy , lady , I will not be . 
He , to whom I dedicate my future life , will be my comforter , if I do His will . 
'' Have you then convents , to one of which you mean to retire ? '' asked Rowena . 
Among these will Rebecca be numbered . 
Say this to thy lord , should he chance to enquire after the fate of her whose life he saved . 
'' There was an involuntary tremour on Rebecca's voice , and a tenderness of accent , which perhaps betrayed more than she would willingly have expressed . 
She hastened to bid Rowena adieu . 
Farewell , '' she said . 
'' She glided from the apartment , leaving Rowena surprised as if a vision had passed before her . 
The fair Saxon related the singular conference to her husband , on whose mind it made a deep impression . 
Ivanhoe distinguished himself in the service of Richard , and was graced with farther marks of the royal favour . 
He might have risen still higher , but for the premature death of the heroic C oe ur de Lion , before the Castle of Chaluz , near Limoges . 
NOTE TO CHAPTER I. Note A. The Ranger or the Forest , that cuts the foreclaws off our dogs . 
A most sensible grievance of those aggrieved times were the Forest Laws . 
'' The disabling dogs , which might be necessary for keeping flocks and herds , from running at the deer , was called lawing , and was in general use . 
Such lawing also shall be done by the assize commonly used , and which is , that three claws shall be cut off without the ball of the right foot . 
The severe accuracy of some critics has objected to the complexion of the slaves of Brian de Bois Guilbert , as being totally out of costume and propriety . 
Besides , there is an instance in romance . 
He effected , by stratagem , the escape of the prisoner . 
Negroes , therefore , must have been known in England in the dark ages . 
Dissertation on Romance and Minstrelsy , prefixed to Ritson's Ancient Metrical Romances , p . 
The poets of the former race were called Minstrels , and their poems Lays those of the latter were termed Troubadours , and their compositions called sirventes , and other names . 
Richard , a professed admirer of the joyous science in all its branches , could imitate either the minstrel or troubadour . 
Note D. Battle of Stamford . 
A great topographical blunder occurred here in former editions . 
This is a mistake , into which the author has been led by trusting to his memory , and so confounding two places of the same name . 
A long wooden bridge over the Derwent , the site of which , with one remaining buttress , is still shown to the curious traveller , was furiously contested . 
One Norwegian long defended it by his single arm , and was at length pierced with a spear thrust through the planks of the bridge from a boat beneath . 
The neighbourhood of Stamford , on the Derwent , contains some memorials of the battle . 
Horseshoes , swords , and the heads of halberds , or bills , are often found there one place is called the Danes' well , '' another the Battle flats . 
For more particulars , Drake's History of York may be referred to . 
The author's mistake was pointed out to him , in the most obliging manner , by Robert Belt , Esq . 
The battle was fought in . 
Note E. The range of iron bars above that glowing charcoal . 
This horrid species of torture may remind the reader of that to which the Spaniards subjected Guatimozin , in order to extort a discovery of his concealed wealth . 
The resemblance between such a Tulchan and a Bishop named to transmit the temporalities of a benefice to some powerful patron , is easily understood . 
Bishops , being a sort of imaginary prelate , whose image was set up to enable his patron and principal to plunder the benefice under his name . 
Master Allan Stewart , friend to Captain James Stewart of Cardonall , by means of the Queen's corrupted court , obtained the Abbey of Crossraguel . 
to pay at his pleasure and because he could not find sic security as his insatiable appetite required , this shift was devised . 
was , by the Earl and his friends , enticed to leave the safeguard which he had with the Laird , and come to make good cheer with the said Earl . 
In the chamber there was a grit iron chimlay , under it a fire other grit provision was not seen . 
it will please you confess here , that with your own consent you remain in my company , because ye durst not commit yourself to the hands of others . 
But ye shall remain with me , nevertheless , at this time , said the Earl . 
l am not able to resist your will and pleasure , said the Abbot , 'in this place . 
Lord , look thou to sic cruelty ! And that the crying of the miserable man should not be heard , they dosed his mouth that the voice might be stopped . 
It may be suspected that some partisan of the King's Darnley's murder was there . 
But yet hope was there none , neither to the afflicted to be delivered , neither yet to the purchaser i . 
Thus he was once more compelled to submit to their tyranny . 
The doom of the Regent and Council shows singularly the total interruption of justice at this calamitous period , even in the most clamant cases of oppression . 
and only enacted , that he should forbear molestation of the unfortunate Comendator , under the surety of two thousand pounds Scots . 
The consequences are thus described by the Journalist already quoted . 
The master of Cassilis was the frackast i . 
the readiest or boldest ) and would not stay , but in his heat would lay fire to the dungeon , with no small boasting that all enemies within the house should die . 
He was required and admonished by those that were within to be more moderate , and not to hazard himself so foolishly . 
But no admonition would help , till that the wind of an hacquebute blasted his shoulder , and then ceased he from further pursuit in fury . 
in the custody of the said Laird of Bargany and of his servants . 
And so cruelty was disappointed of proffeit present , and shall be eternallie punished , unless he earnestly repent . 
Let Cassilis and his brother be the first to be the example unto others . 
This extract has been somewhat amended or modernized in orthography , to render it more intelligible to the general reader . 
NOTE TO CHAPTER XXXI Note F. Ulrica's Death song . 
NOTE TO CHAPTER XXXII Note G. Richard C oe ur de Lion . 
The interchange of a cuff with the jolly priest is not entirely out of character with Richard I. , if romances read him aright . 
His opponent was the son of his principal warder , and was so imprudent as to give the challenge to this barter of buffets . 
The King stood forth like a true man , and received a blow which staggered him . 
See , in Ellis's Specimens of English Romance , that of C oe ur de Lion . 
NOTE TO CHAPTER XXXIII Note H. Hedge Priests . 
Hence the fighting parson in the old play of Sir John Oldcastle , and the famous friar of Robin Hood's band . 
Nor were such characters ideal . 
Note I. Castle of Coningsburgh . 
I was , however , obliged by circumstances to proceed on my journey , without leisure to take more than a transient view of Coningsburgh . 
The most perfect specimen is that upon the island of Mousa , near to the mainland of Zetland , which is probably in the same state as when inhabited . 
It is formed of rough stones , selected with care , and laid in courses or circles , with much compactness , but without cement of any kind . 
Each of these stories or galleries has four windows , facing directly to the points of the compass , and rising of course regularly above each other . 
These four perpendicular ranges of windows admitted air , and , the fire being kindled , heat , or smoke at least , to each of the galleries . 
The access from gallery to gallery is equally primitive . 
In Zetland there are several scores of these Burghs , occupying in every case , capes , headlands , islets , and similar places of advantage singularly well chosen . 
This causeway makes a sharp angle in its approach to the Burgh . 
This must have been the device of some Vauban or Cohorn of those early times . 
The builders had attained the art of using cement , and of roofing a building , great improvements on the original Burgh . 
It would be highly desirable that a cork model should be taken of the Castle of Mousa , as it cannot be well understood by a plan . 
Near the castle is a barrow , said to be Hengist's tomb . 
On the top of the churchyard wall is a tombstone , on which are cut in high relief , two ravens , or such like birds . 
It was probably one of the rude crosses not uncommon in churchyards in this county . 
See it engraved on the plate of crosses for this volume , plate . 
The name of Coningsburgh , by which this castle goes in the old editions of the Britannia , would lead one to suppose it the residence of the Saxon kings . 
It afterwards belonged to King Harold . 
The Conqueror bestowed it on William de Warren , with all its privileges and jurisdiction , which are said to have extended over twenty eight towns . 
The tower within forms a complete circle , twenty one feet in diameter , the walls fourteen feet thick . 
Mr King imagines this a Saxon castle of the first ages of the Heptarchy . 
Mr Watson thus describes it . 
is a way by a stair in the wall five feet wide . 
The next staircase is approached by a ladder , and ends at the fourth story from the ground . 
Each story is about fifteen feet high , so that the tower will be seventy five feet from the ground . 
The inside forms a circle , whose diameter may be about twelve feet . 
The well at the bottom of the dungeon is piled with stones . 
'' Gough's Edition Of Camden's Britannia . 
Walter Scott Ivanhoe a machine readable transcription version . 
This machine readable transcription of Ivanhoe is based on the text printed as volumes and of the Waverley Novels published by Archibald Constable and Company in . 
The order of the files in this distribution is as follows introduction dedicatory . 
notes Changes to the text Page breaks have been removed , along with page numbers and column titles . 
End of line hyphenations have been removed , and the de hyphenated word has been brought up to the first of the two lines . 
The text itself has been the main guide for keeping or removing hyphens in some cases the Centenary Edition of the Waverley Novels has been consulted . 
Small capitals in names have been replaced by lower case letters . 
In those cases small caps are used to denote extra emphasis , they have been marked up accordingly . 
used mainly for song titles has been changed to ordinary text , except in one case see markup conventions below . 
In the text , endnotes appeared immediately after each chapter . 
In this edition , all endnotes have been collected and placed at the end of the 'book' . 
Also , the pages references of the notes have been replaced by letter references , after the same pattern used in the Centenary Edition . 
The following changes have been made to the text dedicatory epistle p . 
had ap peared to do . 
Further oddities The word Anjou was spelled Anjo u in three places . 
There is , though , a mention of a purported work by Dr Dryasdust about King Ulphus earlier in the epistle . 
I suspect that Ingulphus is a misprint for King Ulphus . 
occurs in the Centenary Edition , so I have not made any attempts at correction . 
Markup conventions First line in each paragraph is indented two spaces . 
placed around italicized text placed around extra emphasized text small caps in the text placed around The Wardour Manuscript' , which according to the text should be in some emphatic mode of printing' . 
ae the ae ligature a a circumflex e e circumflex e' e acute oe the oe ligature asterisk used to indicate a major ellipsis in the text . 
If the footnote comes at the end of a paragraph , the first line of the following paragraph is indented two spaces , as usual . 
In chapter an additional note to a footnote was placed at the end of the chapter . 
This note note has been kept where it occurred , but the reference to the original page has been replaced by . 
The transcription and proofreading was done by Anders Thulin , Rydsvagen , S Linkoping , Sweden . 
se I'd be glad to learn of any errors that you may find in the text . 
It was plain , however , that frequent publication must finally wear out the public favour , unless some mode could be devised to give an appearance of novelty to subsequent productions . 
the character of a mannerist to be attached to him , or that he should be supposed capable of success only in a particular and limited style . 
There is some justice in this opinion , as there always is in such as attain general currency . 
If the mine be not wrought out , the strength and capacity of the miner become necessarily exhausted . 
If he closely imitates the narratives which he has before rendered successful , he is doomed to wonder that they please no more . 
It is scarcely necessary to add , that there was no idea or wish to pass off the supposed Mr Templeton as a real person . 
An incident in the tale , which had the good fortune to find favour in the eyes of many readers , is more directly borrowed from the stores of old romance . 
I mean the meeting of the King with Friar Tuck at the cell of that buxom hermit . 
The French minstrels are not silent on so popular a theme . 
There must have been a Norman original of the Scottish metrical romance of Rauf Colziar , in which Charlemagne is introduced as the unknown guest of a charcoal man . 
It seems to have been the original of other poems of the kind . 
In merry England there is no end of popular ballads on this theme . 
The poem of John the Reeve , or Steward , mentioned by Bishop Percy , in the Reliques of English Poetry , is Vol . 
But the peculiar tale of this nature to which the author of Ivanhoe has to acknowledge an obligation , is more ancient by two centuries than any of these last mentioned . 
It was first communicated to the public in that curious record of ancient literature , which has been accumulated by the combined exertions of Sir Egerton Brydges . 
and Mr Hazlewood , in the periodical work entitled the British Bibliographer . 
'' Mr Hartshorne gives no other authority for the present fragment , except the article in the Bibliographer , where it is entitled the Kyng and the Hermite . 
A short abstract of its contents will show its similarity to the meeting of King Richard and Friar Tuck . 
The King hears the reverend man , with a companion of his solitude , telling his beads within , and meekly requests of him quarters for the night . 
I have no accommodation for such a lord as ye be , '' said the Hermit . 
I live here in the wilderness upon roots and rinds , and may not receive into my dwelling even the poorest wretch that lives , unless it were to save his life . 
'' Other wants , however , arise . 
The guest becomes clamorous for supper , observing , For certainly , as I you say , I ne had never so sorry a day , That I ne had a merry night . 
Edward answers by fresh assurances of secrecy , and again urges on him the necessity of procuring some venison . 
'' It would seem that the manuscript is here imperfect , for we do not find the reasons which finally induce the curtal Friar to amend the King's cheer . 
But acknowledging his guest to be such a good fellow'' as has seldom graced his board , the holy man at length produces the best his cell affords . 
The night is spent in this jolly pastime . 
The jolly Hermit at length agrees to venture thither , and to enquire for Jack Fletcher , which is the name assumed by the King . 
After the Hermit has shown Edward some feats of archery , the joyous pair separate . 
The King rides home , and rejoins his retinue . 
One can scarce conceive what humour our ancestors found in this species of gibberish but I warrant it proved an excuse for the glass . 
'' as illustrating manners , is still more curious than the King and the Hermit but it is foreign to the present purpose . 
The name of Ivanhoe was suggested by an old rhyme . 
All novelists have had occasion at some time or other to wish with Falstaff , that they knew where a commodity of good names was to be had . 
He presumes to hold this last quality to be of no small importance . 
What is called a taking title , serves the direct interest of the bookseller or publisher , who by this means sometimes sells an edition while it is yet passing the press . 
In this he is probably disappointed , and in that case may be naturally disposed to visit upon the author or the work , the unpleasant feelings thus excited . 
Abbotsford , st September , . 
DEDICATORY EPISTLE TO THE REV . 
DR DRYASDUST , F. A. S. Residing in the Castle Gate , York . 
Much esteemed and dear Sir , It is scarcely necessary to mention the various and concurring reasons which induce me to place your name at the head of the following work . 
Yet the chief of these reasons may perhaps be refuted by the imperfections of the performance . 
Having thus materials of every kind lying strewed around him , there was little , you observed , to embarrass the author , but the difficulty of choice . 
The Kendal green , though its date is more ancient , ought surely to be as dear to our feelings , as the variegated tartans of the north . 
You insisted upon the advantages which the Scotsman possessed , from the very recent existence of that state of society in which his scene was to be laid . 
Many now alive , you remarked , well remembered persons who had not only seen the celebrated Roy M Gregor , but had feasted , and even fought with him . 
While I own the force of these objections , I must confess , at the same time , that they do not appear to me to be altogether insurmountable . 
But permit me to say , my dear Doctor , that this objection is rather formal than substantial . 
It is true , that such slight compositions might not suit the severer genius of our friend Mr Oldbuck . 
So that , however I may have occasion to rue my present audacity , I have at least the most respectable precedents in my favour . 
I cannot but in some sense admit the force of this reasoning , which I yet hope to traverse by the following considerations . 
In this , I respectfully contend , I have in no respect exceeded the fair license due to the author of a fictitious composition . 
The late ingenious Mr Strutt , in his romance of Queen Hoo Hall , The author had revised this posthumous work of Mr Strutt . 
See General Preface to the present edition , Vol I. p . 
The license which I would here vindicate , is so necessary to the execution of my plan , that I will crave your patience while I illustrate my argument a little farther . 
To pursue this a little farther . 
This was the error of the unfortunate Chatterton . 
What I have applied to language , is still more justly applicable to sentiments and manners . 
The tenor , therefore , of their affections and feelings , must have borne the same general proportion to our own . 
The freedom of choice which this allows him , is therefore much greater , and the difficulty of his task much more diminished , than at first appears . 
To take an illustration from a sister art , the antiquarian details may be said to represent the peculiar features of a landscape under delineation of the pencil . 
It is true , that this license is confined in either case within legitimate bounds . 
His language must not be exclusively obsolete and unintelligible but he should admit , if possible , no word or turn of phraseology betraying an origin directly modern . 
Those whose extensive researches have given them the means of judging my backslidings with more severity , will probably be lenient in proportion to their knowledge of the difficulty of my task . 
Of my materials I have but little to say They may be chiefly found in the singular Anglo Norman MS . 
, and any other monument of the patience of a Gothic scrivener . 
I hope you are now well recovered from your spring fit of the gout , and shall be happy if the advice of your learned physician should recommend a tour to these parts . 
Several curiosities have been lately dug up near the wall , as well as at the ancient station of Habitancum . 
It seems Robin's fame attracted more visitants than was consistent with the growth of the heather , upon a moor worth a shilling an acre . 
Tell this not in Gath , lest the Scots rejoice that they have at length found a parallel instance among their neighbours , to that barbarous deed which demolished Arthur's Oven . 
But there is no end to lamentation , when we betake ourselves to such subjects . 
I send this by the blind carrier , so that probably it may be some time upon its journey . 
This anticipation proved but too true , as my learned correspondent did not receive my letter until a twelvemonth after it was written . 
Once more adieu vale tandem , non immemor mei . 
Believe me to be , Reverend , and very dear Sir , Your most faithful humble Servant . 
Toppingwold , near Egremont , Cumberland , Nov . 
