A DREAM OF JOHN BALL AND A KING'S LESSON BY WILLIAM MORRIS CONTENTS I. The Men of Kent II . 
The Man from Essex III . 
They Meet at the Cross IV . 
The Voice of John Ball V. They hear Tidings of Battle and make them Ready VI . 
The Battle at the Township's End VII . 
More Words at the Cross VIII . 
Supper at Will Green's IX . 
Betwixt the Living and them Dead X. Those Two Talk of the Days to Come XI . 
Hard it is for the Old World to see the New XII . 
I mean when I am asleep . 
This dream is as it were a present of an architectural peep show . 
All this I have seen in the dreams of the night clearer than I can force myself to see them in dreams of the day . 
to find myself lying on a strip of wayside waste by an oak copse just outside a country village . 
The road was narrow , and I was convinced that it was a piece of Roman road from its straightness . 
Otherwise the land was quite unhedged , but all under tillage of various kinds , mostly in small strips . 
So that the garden like neatness and trimness of everything surprised me . 
The man soon came up to me , but paid me no more heed than throwing me a nod . 
He was clad in armour of mingled steel and leather , a sword girt to his side , and over his shoulder a long handled bill hook . 
Nor , again , was I surprised at my own garments , although I might well have been from their unwontedness . 
The chancel of this was so new that the dust of the stone still lay white on the midsummer grass beneath the carvings of the windows . 
They were all roofed with oak shingles , mostly grown as grey as stone but one was so newly built that its roof was yet pale and yellow . 
This was a corner house , and the corner post of it had a carved niche wherein stood a gaily painted figure holding an anchor St . 
Clement to wit , as the dweller in the house was a blacksmith . 
Half a stone's throw from the east end of the churchyard wall was a tall cross of stone , new like the church , the head beautifully carved with a crucifix amidst leafage . 
As they came nearer I saw that the cloth of their garments was somewhat coarse , but stout and serviceable . 
Aha ! said he , is it so ? Never heed it , mate . 
It shall be a song for a supper this fair Sunday evening . 
But first , whose man art thou ? No one's man , said I , reddening angrily I am my own master . 
Nay , that's not the custom of England , as one time belike it will be . 
Methinks thou comest from heaven down , and hast had a high place there too . 
Well , brother , said he , stand not here hungry in the highway when there is flesh and bread in the Rose yonder . 
That , except the rough stools and benches on which the company sat , was all the furniture . 
On the hood of the great chimney a huge rose was wrought in the plaster and brightly painted in its proper colours . 
Whence are thy tidings , Will Green ? said one . 
My mate grinned again with the pleasure of making his joke once more in a bigger company It seemeth from heaven , since this good old lad hath no master , said he . 
Nay , said I , I come not from heaven , but from Essex . 
As I said the word a great shout sprang from all mouths at once , as clear and sudden as a shot from a gun . 
So let us get the collar on their necks again , and make their day's work longer and their bever time shorter , as the good statute of the old king bade . 
All this were the lords at work on , and such talk I knew was common not only among the lords themselves , but also among their sergeants and very serving men . 
But the people would not abide it therefore , as I said , in Essex they were on the point of rising , and word had gone how that at St . 
As he spoke the blue clad damsel bestirred herself and brought me a clean trencher that is , a square piece of thin oak board scraped clean and a pewter pot of liquor . 
God send us such men even here . 
Nay , said another , such men have been and will be , and belike are not far from this same door even now . 
Yea , said a third , hearken a stave of Robin Hood maybe that shall hasten the coming of one I wot of . 
The men all listened eagerly , and at whiles took up as a refrain a couplet at the end of a stanza with their strong and rough , but not unmusical voices . 
We shall bend the bow on the lily lea Betwixt the thorn and the oaken tree . 
So forth shall we and bend the bow And the king's writ never the road shall know . 
Fare forth with the bow to the lily lea Betwixt the thorn and the oaken tree . 
Now bills and bows I and out a gate ! And turn about on the lily lea ! And though their company be great The grey goose wing shall set us free . 
Now bent is the bow in the green abode And the king's writ knoweth not the road . 
So over the mead and over the hithe , And away to the wild wood wend we forth There dwell we yeomen bold and blithe Where the Sheriff's word is nought of worth . 
Bent is the bow on the lily lea Betwixt the thorn and the oaken tree . 
He chuckled while I panted , and said There's for thee a good hearing and seeing stead , old lad . 
I looked around and saw that the newcomers mingled with us must have been a regular armed band all had bucklers slung at their backs , few lacked a sword at the side . 
Some had bows , some staves that is , bills , pole axes , or pikes . 
Moreover , unlike our villagers , they had defensive arms . 
He seemed by no means ill at ease , however , but was laughing and talking with the men who stood near him . 
and a book in a bag . 
He went slowly up the steps of the cross and stood at the top with one hand laid on the shaft , and shout upon shout broke forth from the throng . 
And for me , as I made ready to hearken , I felt a joy in my soul that I had never yet felt . 
Therefore , I bid you not dwell in hell but in heaven , or while ye must , upon earth , which is a part of heaven , and forsooth no foul part . 
Overlong were the tale to tell of them , and of the time that is gone . 
Hearken , then , ye men of Kent . 
Also at such times is the rich man become fearful , and so waxeth in cruelty , and of that cruelty do people misdeem that it is power and might waxing . 
His last word let loose the shout that had been long on all men's lips , and great and fierce it was as it rang shattering through the quiet upland village . 
But John Ball held up his hand , and the shout was one and no more . 
Faithfully and merrily then shall all men keep the holidays of the Church in peace of body and joy of heart . 
But much happened before John Ball spoke again from the cross , and it was on this wise . 
There was a very tall man standing by the prisoner on the horse near the outskirts of the crowd , and holding his bridle . 
This man , who was well armed , I saw look up and say something to the prisoner , who stooped down and seemed to whisper him in turn . 
I looked up at Will Green's face . 
I wot well there is little force between Canterbury and Kingston , for the lords are looking north of Thames toward Wat Tyler and his men . 
Probably one of the Calverlys , a Cheshire family , one of whom was a noted captain in the French wars . 
By this time one of our best armed men had got through the throng and was standing on the cross beside John Ball . 
Will Green was still standing beside me and had hold of my arm , as though he knew both where he and I were to go . 
He grinned as he said this , and there was laughter enough in the throng to have done honour to a better joke . 
Yea , forsooth , said the priest , here will I abide you my fellows if ye come back or if ye come not back , here will I abide the foe . 
Depart , and the blessing of the Fellowship be with you . 
Down then leapt Jack Straw from the cross , and the whole throng set off without noise or hurry , soberly and steadily in outward seeming . 
Will Green led me by the hand as if I were a boy , yet nothing he said , being forsooth intent on his charge . 
We and somewhat more than half of our band turned into the orchards on the left of the road , through which the level rays of the low sun shone brightly . 
The others took up their position on the right side of it . 
Three or four lads and girls were sauntering about , heeding or not heeding the cattle . 
They looked up toward us as we crowded into the last close , and slowly loitered off toward the village . 
Jack Straw was on our side of the road , and with a few gestures and a word or two he got his men into their places . 
The hedge in front of us was of quick . 
It had been strongly plashed in the past February , and was stiff and stout . 
It stood on a low bank moreover , the level of the orchard was some thirty inches higher than that of the field . 
and the ditch some two foot deeper than the face of the field . 
Altogether , to me who knew nothing of war the place seemed defensible enough . 
CHAPTER VI THE BATTLE AT THE TOWNSHIP'S END Our men had got into their places leisurely and coolly enough , and with no lack of jesting and laughter . 
Then he looked at me and said Now , lad from Essex , thou hadst best sit down out of the way at once forsooth I wot not why I brought thee hither . 
Wilt thou not back to the cross , for thou art little of a fighting man ? Nay , said I , I would see the play . 
What shall come of it ? Little , said he we shall slay a horse or twain maybe . 
Then he opened his quiver and took out of it some two dozen of arrows , which he stuck in the ground beside him ready to his hand . 
Most of the bowmen within sight were doing the like . 
Their errand there was clear , for each carried a bundle of arrows under her arm . 
One of them came straight up to Will Green , and I could see at once that she was his daughter . 
Ere the moon throws a shadow we shall be back . 
She turned away lingering , not without tears on her face , laid the sheaf of arrows at the foot of the tree , and hastened off through the orchard . 
I was going to say something , when Will Green held up his hand as who would bid us hearken . 
The noise of the horse hoofs , after growing nearer and nearer , had ceased suddenly , and a confused murmur of voices had taken the place of it . 
Get thee down , and take cover , old lad , said Will Green the dance will soon begin , and ye shall hear the music presently . 
Then for a while was almost silence nor did our horns blow up , though some half dozen of the billmen had leapt into the road when the bows first shot . 
He turned round to me as he nocked his arrow , and said I would they were just fifty paces nigher , and they move not . 
Ho ! Jack Straw , shall we shoot ? For the latter named was nigh us now he shook his head and said nothing as he stood looking at the enemy's line . 
Fear not but they are the right folk , Jack , quoth Will Green . 
Yea , yea , said he , but abide awhile they could make nought of the highway , and two of their sergeants had a message from the grey goose feather . 
I looked hard at the man . 
He bore a heavy axe in his hand besides the sword he was girt with , and round his neck hung a great horn for blowing . 
I should say that I knew that there were at least three Jack Straws among the fellowship of the discontented , one of whom was over in Essex . 
They are come to summon us . 
Wilt thou that he speak , Jack ? said Will Green . 
Nay , said the other yet shall he have warning first . 
Shoot when my horn blows ! And therewith he came up to the hedge , climbed over , slowly because of his armour , and stood some dozen yards out in the field . 
Now , therefore , if any withstand us on our lawful errand as we go to speak with our own king and lord , let him look to it . 
Bear back this word to them that sent thee . 
He looked to his men right and left , and then turned rein and turned tail , and scuttled back to the main body at his swiftest . 
Huge laughter rattled out all along our line as Jack Straw climbed back into the orchard grinning also . 
Then we noted more movement in the enemy's line . 
Presently the moving line faced us , and the archers set off at a smart pace toward us , the men at arms holding back a little behind them . 
Then he cast it into his left hand , caught up his horn and winded it loudly . 
Withal the arbalestiers were shooting again , but high and at a venture , so they did us no hurt . 
I looked as on a picture and wondered , and my mind was at strain to remember something forgotten , which yet had left its mark on it . 
And as to those slain , if God give their souls rest it is well for little rest they had on the earth belike but for me , I desire rest no more . 
We waited silently until we had heard John Ball and the story of what was to do and presently he began to speak . 
Good people , it is begun , but not ended . 
Which of you is hardy enough to wend the road to London to morrow ? All ! All ! they shouted . 
Yea , said he , even so I deemed of you . 
Moreover , when ye dwell here in Kent ye think forsooth of your brethren in Essex or Suffolk , and there belike an end . 
But from London ye may have an inkling of all the world , and over burdensome maybe shall that seem to you , a few and a feeble people . 
He ceased awhile , but they hearkened still , as if something more was coming . 
To fools hearken not , whether they be yourselves or your foemen , for either shall lead you astray . 
All that is the end of their parleying . 
Now make we our friends welcome . 
They were some three hundred strong , clad and armed in all ways like the people of our township , except some half dozen whose armour shone cold like ice under the moonbeams . 
Brother from Essex , said he , shall I see thee again to night ? I were fain of speech with thee for thou seemest like one that has seen more than most . 
Yea , said I , if ye come to Will Green's house , for thither am I bidden . 
Thither shall I come , said he , smiling kindly , or no man I know in field . 
Lo you , Will Green looking for something , and that is me . 
So come ye , and ye good fellows , come ! So we turned away together into the little street . 
their grave sonorous language , and the quaint and measured forms of speech , were again become a wonder to me and affected me almost to tears . 
CHAPTER VIII SUPPER AT WILL GREEN'S I walked along with the others musing as if I did not belong to them , till we came to Will Green's house . 
He was one of the wealthier of the yeomen , and his house was one of those I told you of , the lower story of which was built of stone . 
It had not been built long , and was very trim and neat . 
She made merry with her father yet it was easy to see that her heart was in her mouth all along . 
They were brisk lads and smart , but had been afield after the beasts that evening , and had not seen the fray . 
It was much like the room at the Rose , but bigger the cupboard better wrought , and with more vessels on it , and handsomer . 
Also the walls , instead of being panelled , were hung with a coarse loosely woven stuff of green worsted with birds and trees woven into it . 
We sat down , the priest blessed the meat in the name of the Trinity , and we crossed ourselves and fell to . 
The victual was plentiful of broth and flesh meat , and bread and cherries , so we ate and drank , and talked lightly together when we were full . 
Yet was not the feast so gay as might have been . 
So then we sat silent awhile . 
Thus we sat awhile , and once again came that feeling over me of wonder and pleasure at the strange and beautiful sights , mingled . 
with the sights and sounds and scents beautiful indeed , yet not strange , but rather long familiar to me . 
Yet , forsooth , fair it is at whiles to sit with friends and let the summer night speak for us and tell us its tales . 
But now , sweetling , fetch the mazer and the wine . 
That is sooth , said one of the upland guests . 
So it was seen in France when we fought there and the eve of fight was sober and the morn was merry . 
Yea , said another , but there , forsooth , it was for nothing ye fought and to morrow it shall be for a fair reward . 
It was for life we fought , said the first . 
Yea , said the second , for life and leave to go home and find the lawyers at their fell game . 
Ho , Will Green , call a health over the cup ! For now Will Green had a bowl of wine in his hand . 
Will Green turned round to me and said Thou wilt come back again timely , old lad for betimes on the morrow must we rise if we shall dine at Rochester . 
John Ball did not press me to move forward , but held up his hand as if to bid me hearken . 
God grant they be cleansed at last forsooth one of them who is now alive is a foul swine and a cruel wolf . 
Thomas of Canterbury , who shall speak well of me to the heavenly Fellowship , and I shall in no wise lose my reward . 
Yea , said I , they live to live because the world liveth . 
Our dead lay just before the high altar on low biers , their faces all covered with linen cloths , for some of them had been sore smitten and hacked in the fray . 
We went up to them and John Ball took the cloth from the face of one he had been shot to the heart with a shaft and his face was calm and smooth . 
His bow lay on one side of him , his quiver of shafts and his sword on the other . 
And so deemest thou ? I shook my head and said nothing . 
What hast thou to say hereon ? said he , for there seemeth something betwixt us twain as it were a wall that parteth us . 
And trust me if this were not so , the world would not live , but would die , smothered by its own stink . 
Is the wall betwixt us gone , friend ? He smiled as he looked at me , kindly , but sadly and shamefast , and shook his head . 
Then in a while he said , Now ye have seen the images of those who were our friends , come and see the images of those who were once our foes . 
Knowest thou any of these men ? said I. He said , Some I should know , could I see their faces but let them be . 
Were they evil men ? said I. Yea , he said , some two or three . 
But I will not tell thee of them let St . 
Martin , whose house this is , tell their story if he will . 
I started and said , Yea , brother now must I get me back to Will Green's house , as I promised to do so timely . 
Not yet , brother , said he I have still much to say to thee , and the night is yet young . 
Hide not , therefore , what thou hast in thine heart , for I think after this night I shall see thee no more , until we meet in the heavenly Fellowship . 
And this I say to thee , moreover , that if I know more than thou , I do far less therefore thou art my captain and I thy minstrel . 
Even so , I thought , said he but afterwards what shall betide ? Said I , It grieves my heart to say that which I think . 
He smiled very sweetly , yet proudly , as he said Yea , the road is long , but the end cometh at last . 
Tell me then what shall befall . 
Said I not , quoth John Ball , that thou wert a sending from other times ? Good is thy message , for the land shall be free . 
There shall be plenty in the land and not famine . 
Where a man now earneth two pennies he shall earn three . 
Yea , said I , that shall indeed come to pass , but not yet for a while , and belike a long while . 
And I sat for long without speaking , and the church grew darker as the moon waned yet more . 
How mean you ? said John Ball shall all men be villeins again ? Nay , said I , there shall be no villeins in England . 
Surely then , said he , it shall be worse , and all men save a few shall be thralls to be bought and sold at the cross . 
And now , said he , I wot not what thou sayest . 
Yea , but wherewith shall he buy it ? said John Ball . 
John Ball laughed aloud , and said Well , I perceive we are not yet out of the land of riddles . 
The man may well do what thou sayest and live , but he may not do it and live a free man . 
And wheresoever work is going on there shall be constables again , and those that labour shall labour under the whip like the Hebrews in the land of Egypt . 
Friend , said I , from thine own valiancy and high heart thou speakest , when thou sayest that they who fall under this tyranny shall fight to the death against it . 
The word monopolist will cover both species of thief . 
I am weary of thy riddles , he said . 
Yet at least I hope that there may be fewer and fewer folk in the land as may well be , if life is then so foul and wretched . 
I have but little heart to ask thee more questions , said he and when thou answerest , thy words are plain , but the things they tell of I may scarce understand . 
Yea , said John Ball , 'tis the twilight of the dawn . 
We both sat silent a little while . 
The twilight was gaining on the night , though slowly . 
Go , then , said he , if thou wilt . 
Yet I will go now , said I I bid thee good night , or rather good morrow . 
How then shall thy mastership of the latter days endure ? John Ball , said I , mastership hath many shifts whereby it striveth to keep itself alive in the world . 
Said I Sawest thou ever a weaver at his loom ? Yea , said he , many a time . 
He was silent a little , and then said Yet I marvelled not at it but now I marvel , because I know what thou wouldst say . 
Yea , so it is that this multiplieth a man many times . 
But look you , he is so multiplied already and so hath he been , meseemeth , for many hundred years . 
, then shall men be but little holpen by making all their wares so easily and with so little labour . 
Yet will I now for a little set all that aside to consider thy strange tale as of a minstrel from over sea , even as thou biddest me . 
For then shall we have conquered the earth and it shall be enough and then shall the kingdom of heaven be come down to the earth in very deed . 
Such are not the men I have known in my life days , and that now I love in my death . 
And now I suppose thou wilt tell me that the Church will open her arms wider to this poor people , and that many through her shall rise into lordship . 
But what availeth that ? Nought were it to me if the Abbot of St . 
I smiled and said Comfort thyself for in those days shall there be neither abbey nor priory in the land , nor monks nor friars , nor any religious . 
Woe's me , brother , for thy sad and weary foretelling ! And yet saidst thou that the men of those days would seek a remedy . 
, the ruddy glow , which had but so little a while quite died out in the west , was now beginning to gather in the east the new day was beginning . 
I looked at the poppy that I still carried in my hand , and it seemed to me to have withered and dwindled . 
Lo you , an image of the times to betide the hope of the Fellowship of Men . 
of his peasants were over worked and under fed . 
The King sat and said but little while they spake , but he misdoubted them that they were liars . 
And the lord smiled , but somewhat sourly . 
As for the peasants , great was their fear of those gay and golden lords . 
Well , belike they knew not the King but amidst those rich lords they saw and knew their own lord , and of him they were sore afraid . 
So the poor folk fled not nay they made as if all this were none of their business , and went on with their work . 
And then ye should have seen velvet cloaks cast off , and mantles of fine Flemish scarlet go to the dusty earth as the lords and knights busked them to the work . 
So they buckled to and to most of them it seemed good game to play at vine dressing . 
And their hearts sank within them . 
So sped the work and the sun rose yet higher in the heavens , and it was noon and more . 
Till at last the next man to the King let his hoe drop with a clatter , and swore a great oath . 
Wilt thou that I ask this labouring carle a thing or two ? Yea , said the King . 
And there came , as it were , a cloud of thought over his face . 
And how much of thy work have we done in that while ? says the captain , and winks his eye at him withal . 
Lord , says the carle , grinning a little despite himself , be not wroth with my word . 
Therefore , if ye are thinking to lay some new tax or tale upon us , think twice of it , for we may not bear it . 
Let us down and to our dinner . 
So they went , the King and his gentles , and sat down by the river under the rustle of the poplars , and they ate and drank and were merry . 
But when the poor folk had all that under their hands , it was to them as though the kingdom of heaven had come down to earth . 
In the cool of the evening home rode the King and his lords . 
Again said the King And my trade ? Said he , Thy trade is to be a king of such thieves , yet no worser than the rest . 
Bear that in mind , said he , and then shall I tell thee my thought while yonder carle spake . 
Said the captain This then is thy sermon . 
Yet it SHALL be preached . 
And not heeded , said the captain , save by those who head and hang the setters forth of new things that are good for the world . 
Our trade is safe for many an many a generation . 
And therewith they came to the King's palace , and they ate and drank and slept and the world went on its ways . 
