This is the hour of pride and power , Talon and tush and claw . 
Mother Wolf lay with her big gray nose dropped across her four tumbling , squealing cubs , and the moon shone into the mouth of the cave where they all lived . 
Augrh ! said Father Wolf . 
It is time to hunt again . 
He was going to spring down hill when a little shadow with a bushy tail crossed the threshold and whined Good luck go with you , O Chief of the Wolves . 
And good luck and strong white teeth go with noble children that they may never forget the hungry in this world . 
Even the tiger runs and hides when little Tabaqui goes mad , for madness is the most disgraceful thing that can overtake a wild creature . 
We call it hydrophobia , but they call it dewanee the madness and run . 
Enter , then , and look , said Father Wolf stiffly , but there is no food here . 
For a wolf , no , said Tabaqui , but for so mean a person as myself a dry bone is a good feast . 
All thanks for this good meal , he said , licking his lips . 
Now , Tabaqui knew as well as anyone else that there is nothing so unlucky as to compliment children to their faces . 
It pleased him to see Mother and Father Wolf look uncomfortable . 
Tabaqui sat still , rejoicing in the mischief that he had made , and then he said spitefully Shere Khan , the Big One , has shifted his hunting grounds . 
He will hunt among these hills for the next moon , so he has told me . 
Shere Khan was the tiger who lived near the Waingunga River , twenty miles away . 
He has no right ! Father Wolf began angrily By the Law of the Jungle he has no right to change his quarters without due warning . 
He will frighten every head of game within ten miles , and I I have to kill for two , these days . 
His mother did not call him Lungri the Lame One for nothing , said Mother Wolf quietly . 
He has been lame in one foot from his birth . 
That is why he has only killed cattle . 
Now the villagers of the Waingunga are angry with him , and he has come here to make our villagers angry . 
They will scour the jungle for him when he is far away , and we and our children must run when the grass is set alight . 
Indeed , we are very grateful to Shere Khan ! Shall I tell him of your gratitude ? said Tabaqui . 
Out ! snapped Father Wolf . 
Out and hunt with thy master . 
Thou hast done harm enough for one night . 
I go , said Tabaqui quietly . 
Ye can hear Shere Khan below in the thickets . 
I might have saved myself the message . 
The fool ! said Father Wolf . 
To begin a night's work with that noise ! Does he think that our buck are like his fat Waingunga bullocks ? H'sh . 
It is neither bullock nor buck he hunts to night , said Mother Wolf . 
The whine had changed to a sort of humming purr that seemed to come from every quarter of the compass . 
It was the noise that bewilders woodcutters and gypsies sleeping in the open , and makes them run sometimes into the very mouth of the tiger . 
Man ! said Father Wolf , showing all his white teeth . 
Then everybody in the jungle suffers . 
The reason the beasts give among themselves is that Man is the weakest and most defenseless of all living things , and it is unsportsmanlike to touch him . 
They say too and it is true that man eaters become mangy , and lose their teeth . 
The purr grew louder , and ended in the full throated Aaarh ! of the tiger's charge . 
Then there was a howl an untigerish howl from Shere Khan . 
He has missed , said Mother Wolf . 
What is it ? Father Wolf ran out a few paces and heard Shere Khan muttering and mumbling savagely as he tumbled about in the scrub . 
The fool has had no more sense than to jump at a woodcutter's campfire , and has burned his feet , said Father Wolf with a grunt . 
Something is coming uphill , said Mother Wolf , twitching one ear . 
The bushes rustled a little in the thicket , and Father Wolf dropped with his haunches under him , ready for his leap . 
Then , if you had been watching , you would have seen the most wonderful thing in the world the wolf checked in mid spring . 
He made his bound before he saw what it was he was jumping at , and then he tried to stop himself . 
The result was that he shot up straight into the air for four or five feet , landing almost where he left ground . 
He looked up into Father Wolf's face , and laughed . 
Is that a man's cub ? said Mother Wolf . 
I have never seen one . 
How little ! How naked , and how bold ! said Mother Wolf softly . 
The baby was pushing his way between the cubs to get close to the warm hide . 
Ahai ! He is taking his meal with the others . 
And so this is a man's cub . 
He is altogether without hair , and I could kill him with a touch of my foot . 
But see , he looks up and is not afraid . 
The moonlight was blocked out of the mouth of the cave , for Shere Khan's great square head and shoulders were thrust into the entrance . 
What does Shere Khan need ? My quarry . 
A man's cub went this way , said Shere Khan . 
Its parents have run off . 
Shere Khan had jumped at a woodcutter's campfire , as Father Wolf had said , and was furious from the pain of his burned feet . 
But Father Wolf knew that the mouth of the cave was too narrow for a tiger to come in by . 
Even where he was , Shere Khan's shoulders and forepaws were cramped for want of room , as a man's would be if he tried to fight in a barrel . 
The Wolves are a free people , said Father Wolf . 
They take orders from the Head of the Pack , and not from any striped cattle killer . 
The man's cub is ours to kill if we choose . 
Mother Wolf shook herself clear of the cubs and sprang forward , her eyes , like two green moons in the darkness , facing the blazing eyes of Shere Khan . 
And it is I , Raksha The Demon , who answers . 
The man's cub is mine , Lungri mine to me ! He shall not be killed . 
, back thou goest to thy mother , burned beast of the jungle , lamer than ever thou camest into the world ! Go ! Father Wolf looked on amazed . 
The cub must be shown to the Pack . 
Wilt thou still keep him , Mother ? Keep him ! she gasped . 
He came naked , by night , alone and very hungry yet he was not afraid ! Look , he has pushed one of my babes to one side already . 
Lie still , little frog . 
O thou Mowgli for Mowgli the Frog I will call thee the time will come when thou wilt hunt Shere Khan as he has hunted thee . 
But what will our Pack say ? said Father Wolf . 
The Law of the Jungle lays down very clearly that any wolf may , when he marries , withdraw from the Pack he belongs to . 
The punishment is death where the murderer can be found and if you think for a minute you will see that this must be so . 
The Lone Wolf had led them for a year now . 
He had fallen twice into a wolf trap in his youth , and once he had been beaten and left for dead so he knew the manners and customs of men . 
There was very little talking at the Rock . 
Sometimes a mother would push her cub far out into the moonlight to be sure that he had not been overlooked . 
Akela from his rock would cry Ye know the Law ye know the Law . 
What have the Free People to do with a man's cub ? Akela never even twitched his ears . 
Who speaks for this cub ? said Akela . 
Among the Free People who speaks ? There was no answer and Mother Wolf got ready for what she knew would be her last fight , if things came to fighting . 
The man's cub the man's cub ? he said . 
I speak for the man's cub . 
There is no harm in a man's cub . 
I have no gift of words , but I speak the truth . 
Let him run with the Pack , and be entered with the others . 
I myself will teach him . 
We need yet another , said Akela . 
Baloo has spoken , and he is our teacher for the young cubs . 
Who speaks besides Baloo ? A black shadow dropped down into the circle . 
It was Bagheera the Black Panther , inky black all over , but with the panther markings showing up in certain lights like the pattern of watered silk . 
Everybody knew Bagheera , and nobody cared to cross his path for he was as cunning as Tabaqui , as bold as the wild buffalo , and as reckless as the wounded elephant . 
But he had a voice as soft as wild honey dripping from a tree , and a skin softer than down . 
And the Law does not say who may or may not pay that price . 
Am I right ? Good ! Good ! said the young wolves , who are always hungry . 
The cub can be bought for a price . 
Knowing that I have no right to speak here , I ask your leave . 
Speak then , cried twenty voices . 
To kill a naked cub is shame . 
Besides , he may make better sport for you when he is grown . 
Baloo has spoken in his behalf . 
Is it difficult ? There was a clamor of scores of voices , saying What matter ? He will die in the winter rains . 
He will scorch in the sun . 
What harm can a naked frog do us ? Let him run with the Pack . 
Where is the bull , Bagheera ? Let him be accepted . 
At last they all went down the hill for the dead bull , and only Akela , Bagheera , Baloo , and Mowgli's own wolves were left . 
Shere Khan roared still in the night , for he was very angry that Mowgli had not been handed over to him . 
It was well done , said Akela . 
Men and their cubs are very wise . 
He may be a help in time . 
Truly , a help in time of need for none can hope to lead the Pack forever , said Bagheera . 
Take him away , he said to Father Wolf , and train him as befits one of the Free People . 
And that is how Mowgli was entered into the Seeonee Wolf Pack for the price of a bull and on Baloo's good word . 
He grew up with the cubs , though they , of course , were grown wolves almost before he was a child . 
When he was not learning he sat out in the sun and slept , and ate and went to sleep again . 
he climbed up for it , and that Bagheera showed him how to do . 
At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the pads of his friends , for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and burs in their coats . 
Bagheera killed right and left as he felt hungry , and so did Mowgli with one exception . 
That is the Law of the Jungle . 
Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere Khan was not a creature to be trusted , and that some day he must kill Shere Khan . 
Then Shere Khan would flatter them and wonder that such fine young hunters were content to be led by a dying wolf and a man's cub . 
They tell me , Shere Khan would say , that at Council ye dare not look him between the eyes . 
And the young wolves would growl and bristle . 
Bagheera , who had eyes and ears everywhere , knew something of this , and once or twice he told Mowgli in so many words that Shere Khan would kill him some day . 
Mowgli would laugh and answer I have the Pack and I have thee and Baloo , though he is so lazy , might strike a blow or two for my sake . 
Why should I be afraid ? It was one very warm day that a new notion came to Bagheera born of something that he had heard . 
What of it ? I am sleepy , Bagheera , and Shere Khan is all long tail and loud talk like Mao , the Peacock . 
But this is no time for sleeping . 
Baloo knows it I know it the Pack know it and even the foolish , foolish deer know . 
Tabaqui has told thee too . 
Ho ! ho ! said Mowgli . 
Tabaqui came to me not long ago with some rude talk that I was a naked man's cub and not fit to dig pig nuts . 
But I caught Tabaqui by the tail and swung him twice against a palm tree to teach him better manners . 
That was foolishness , for though Tabaqui is a mischief maker , he would have told thee of something that concerned thee closely . 
Open those eyes , Little Brother . 
Shere Khan dare not kill thee in the jungle . 
But remember , Akela is very old , and soon the day comes when he cannot kill his buck , and then he will be leader no more . 
In a little time thou wilt be a man . 
And what is a man that he should not run with his brothers ? said Mowgli . 
I was born in the jungle . 
I have obeyed the Law of the Jungle , and there is no wolf of ours from whose paws I have not pulled a thorn . 
Surely they are my brothers ! Bagheera stretched himself at full length and half shut his eyes . 
Little Brother , said he , feel under my jaw . 
It was because of this that I paid the price for thee at the Council when thou wast a little naked cub . 
Yes , I too was born among men . 
I had never seen the jungle . 
And because I had learned the ways of men , I became more terrible in the jungle than Shere Khan . 
Is it not so ? Yes , said Mowgli , all the jungle fear Bagheera all except Mowgli . 
Oh , thou art a man's cub , said the Black Panther very tenderly . 
And even as I returned to my jungle , so thou must go back to men at last to the men who are thy brothers if thou art not killed in the Council . 
But why but why should any wish to kill me ? said Mowgli . 
Look at me , said Bagheera . 
And Mowgli looked at him steadily between the eyes . 
The big panther turned his head away in half a minute . 
That is why , he said , shifting his paw on the leaves . 
Not even I can look thee between the eyes , and I was born among men , and I love thee , Little Brother . 
The others they hate thee because their eyes cannot meet thine because thou art wise because thou hast pulled out thorns from their feet because thou art a man . 
I did not know these things , said Mowgli sullenly , and he frowned under his heavy black eyebrows . 
What is the Law of the Jungle ? Strike first and then give tongue . 
By thy very carelessness they know that thou art a man . 
It is in my heart that when Akela misses his next kill and at each hunt it costs him more to pin the buck the Pack will turn against him and against thee . 
They will hold a jungle Council at the Rock , and then and then I have it ! said Bagheera , leaping up . 
By Red Flower Bagheera meant fire , only no creature in the jungle will call fire by its proper name . 
Every beast lives in deadly fear of it , and invents a hundred ways of describing it . 
The Red Flower ? said Mowgli . 
That grows outside their huts in the twilight . 
There speaks the man's cub , said Bagheera proudly . 
Remember that it grows in little pots . 
Get one swiftly , and keep it by thee for time of need . 
That is all a man , said Bagheera to himself , lying down again . 
He came to the cave as the evening mist rose , and drew breath , and looked down the valley . 
The cubs were out , but Mother Wolf , at the back of the cave , knew by his breathing that something was troubling her frog . 
What is it , Son ? she said . 
Some bat's chatter of Shere Khan , he called back . 
I hunt among the plowed fields tonight , and he plunged downward through the bushes , to the stream at the bottom of the valley . 
There he checked , for he heard the yell of the Pack hunting , heard the bellow of a hunted Sambhur , and the snort as the buck turned at bay . 
Then there were wicked , bitter howls from the young wolves Akela ! Akela ! Let the Lone Wolf show his strength . 
He did not wait for anything more , but dashed on and the yells grew fainter behind him as he ran into the croplands where the villagers lived . 
Bagheera spoke truth , he panted , as he nestled down in some cattle fodder by the window of a hut . 
To morrow is one day both for Akela and for me . 
Then he pressed his face close to the window and watched the fire on the hearth . 
He saw the husbandman's wife get up and feed it in the night with black lumps . 
Is that all ? said Mowgli . 
If a cub can do it , there is nothing to fear . 
So he strode round the corner and met the boy , took the pot from his hand , and disappeared into the mist while the boy howled with fear . 
They are very like me , said Mowgli , blowing into the pot as he had seen the woman do . 
This thing will die if I do not give it things to eat and he dropped twigs and dried bark on the red stuff . 
Halfway up the hill he met Bagheera with the morning dew shining like moonstones on his coat . 
Akela has missed , said the Panther . 
They would have killed him last night , but they needed thee also . 
They were looking for thee on the hill . 
I was among the plowed lands . 
See ! Mowgli held up the fire pot . 
Good ! Now , I have seen men thrust a dry branch into that stuff , and presently the Red Flower blossomed at the end of it . 
All that day Mowgli sat in the cave tending his fire pot and dipping dry branches into it to see how they looked . 
Then Mowgli went to the Council , still laughing . 
Bagheera lay close to Mowgli , and the fire pot was between Mowgli's knees . 
When they were all gathered together , Shere Khan began to speak a thing he would never have dared to do when Akela was in his prime . 
He has no right , whispered Bagheera . 
He is a dog's son . 
Mowgli sprang to his feet . 
By whom ? said Mowgli . 
Are we all jackals , to fawn on this cattle butcher ? The leadership of the Pack is with the Pack alone . 
There were yells of Silence , thou man's cub ! Let him speak . 
He has kept our Law and at last the seniors of the Pack thundered Let the Dead Wolf speak . 
When a leader of the Pack has missed his kill , he is called the Dead Wolf as long as he lives , which is not long . 
Now I have missed my kill . 
Ye know how that plot was made . 
Ye know how ye brought me up to an untried buck to make my weakness known . 
Your right is to kill me here on the Council Rock , now . 
There was a long hush , for no single wolf cared to fight Akela to the death . 
Then Shere Khan roared Bah ! What have we to do with this toothless fool ? He is doomed to die ! It is the man cub who has lived too long . 
Free People , he was my meat from the first . 
I am weary of this man wolf folly . 
He has troubled the jungle for ten seasons . 
Give me the man cub , or I will hunt here always , and not give you one bone . 
And turn all the people of the villages against us ? clamored Shere Khan . 
No , give him to me . 
He is a man , and none of us can look him between the eyes . 
Akela lifted his head again and said , He has eaten our food . 
He has slept with us . 
He has driven game for us . 
He has broken no word of the Law of the Jungle . 
Also , I paid for him with a bull when he was accepted . 
The worth of a bull is little , but Bagheera's honor is something that he will perhaps fight for , said Bagheera in his gentlest voice . 
A bull paid ten years ago ! the Pack snarled . 
What do we care for bones ten years old ? Or for a pledge ? said Bagheera , his white teeth bared under his lip . 
Well are ye called the Free People ! No man's cub can run with the people of the jungle , howled Shere Khan . 
Give him to me ! He is our brother in all but blood , Akela went on , and ye would kill him here ! In truth , I have lived too long . 
Some of ye are eaters of cattle , and of others I have heard that , under Shere Khan's teaching , ye go by dark night and snatch children from the villager's doorstep . 
Therefore I know ye to be cowards , and it is to cowards I speak . 
It is certain that I must die , and my life is of no worth , or I would offer that in the man cub's place . 
I will die without fighting . 
That will at least save the Pack three lives . 
He is a man a man a man ! snarled the Pack . 
And most of the wolves began to gather round Shere Khan , whose tail was beginning to switch . 
Now the business is in thy hands , said Bagheera to Mowgli . 
We can do no more except fight . 
Mowgli stood upright the fire pot in his hands . 
Listen you ! he cried . 
There is no need for this dog's jabber . 
that I feel your words are true . 
So I do not call ye my brothers any more , but sag dogs , as a man should . 
What ye will do , and what ye will not do , is not yours to say . 
Mowgli thrust his dead branch into the fire till the twigs lit and crackled , and whirled it above his head among the cowering wolves . 
Thou art the master , said Bagheera in an undertone . 
Save Akela from the death . 
He was ever thy friend . 
Good ! said Mowgli , staring round slowly . 
I see that ye are dogs . 
I go from you to my own people if they be my own people . 
The jungle is shut to me , and I must forget your talk and your companionship . 
But I will be more merciful than ye are . 
Because I was all but your brother in blood , I promise that when I am a man among men I will not betray ye to men as ye have betrayed me . 
He kicked the fire with his foot , and the sparks flew up . 
There shall be no war between any of us in the Pack . 
But here is a debt to pay before I go . 
He strode forward to where Shere Khan sat blinking stupidly at the flames , and caught him by the tuft on his chin . 
Bagheera followed in case of accidents . 
Up , dog ! Mowgli cried . 
This cattle killer said he would kill me in the Council because he had not killed me when I was a cub . 
Thus and thus , then , do we beat dogs when we are men . 
For the rest , Akela goes free to live as he pleases . 
Ye will not kill him , because that is not my will . 
At last there were only Akela , Bagheera , and perhaps ten wolves that had taken Mowgli's part . 
What is it ? What is it ? he said . 
I do not wish to leave the jungle , and I do not know what this is . 
Am I dying , Bagheera ? No , Little Brother . 
That is only tears such as men use , said Bagheera . 
Now I know thou art a man , and a man's cub no longer . 
The jungle is shut indeed to thee henceforward . 
Let them fall , Mowgli . 
So Mowgli sat and cried as though his heart would break and he had never cried in all his life before . 
Now , he said , I will go to men . 
But first I must say farewell to my mother . 
And he went to the cave where she lived with Father Wolf , and he cried on her coat , while the four cubs howled miserably . 
Ye will not forget me ? said Mowgli . 
Never while we can follow a trail , said the cubs . 
Come to the foot of the hill when thou art a man , and we will talk to thee and we will come into the croplands to play with thee by night . 
Come soon ! said Father Wolf . 
Oh , wise little frog , come again soon for we be old , thy mother and I. Come soon , said Mother Wolf , little naked son of mine . 
For , listen , child of man , I loved thee more than ever I loved my cubs . 
I will surely come , said Mowgli . 
And when I come it will be to lay out Shere Khan's hide upon the Council Rock . 
Be clean , for the strength of the hunter is known by the gloss of his hide . 
If ye find that the Bullock can toss you , or the heavy browed Sambhur can gore Ye need not stop work to inform us we knew it ten seasons before . 
Oppress not the cubs of the stranger , but hail them as Sister and Brother , For though they are little and fubsy , it may be the Bear is their mother . 
There is none like to me ! says the Cub in the pride of his earliest kill But the jungle is large and the Cub he is small . 
Let him think and be still . 
Maxims of Baloo All that is told here happened some time before Mowgli was turned out of the Seeonee Wolf Pack , or revenged himself on Shere Khan the tiger . 
It was in the days when Baloo was teaching him the Law of the Jungle . 
But Mowgli , as a man cub , had to learn a great deal more than this . 
The boy could climb almost as well as he could swim , and swim almost as well as he could run . 
None of the Jungle People like being disturbed , and all are very ready to fly at an intruder . 
Then , too , Mowgli was taught the Strangers' Hunting Call , which must be repeated aloud till it is answered , whenever one of the Jungle People hunts outside his own grounds . 
It means , translated , Give me leave to hunt here because I am hungry . 
And the answer is , Hunt then for food , but not for pleasure . 
All this will show you how much Mowgli had to learn by heart , and he grew very tired of saying the same thing over a hundred times . 
But think how small he is , said the Black Panther , who would have spoiled Mowgli if he had had his own way . 
Softly ! What dost thou know of softness , old Iron feet ? Bagheera grunted . 
His face is all bruised today by thy softness . 
Better he should be bruised from head to foot by me who love him than that he should come to harm through ignorance , Baloo answered very earnestly . 
He can now claim protection , if he will only remember the words , from all in the jungle . 
Is not that worth a little beating ? Well , look to it then that thou dost not kill the man cub . 
He is no tree trunk to sharpen thy blunt claws upon . 
I will call Mowgli and he shall say them if he will . 
Tell Bagheera , then , the Master Words of the Jungle that I have taught thee this day . 
Master Words for which people ? said Mowgli , delighted to show off . 
The jungle has many tongues . 
A little thou knowest , but not much . 
See , O Bagheera , they never thank their teacher . 
Not one small wolfling has ever come back to thank old Baloo for his teachings . 
Say the word for the Hunting People , then great scholar . 
We be of one blood , ye and I , said Mowgli , giving the words the Bear accent which all the Hunting People use . 
Mowgli repeated , with the Kite's whistle at the end of the sentence . 
Now for the Snake People , said Bagheera . 
There there ! That was worth a little bruise , said the brown bear tenderly . 
Some day thou wilt remember me . 
No one then is to be feared , Baloo wound up , patting his big furry stomach with pride . 
What is this new folly , little dreamer of dreams ? said Bagheera . 
Yes , and throw branches and dirt at old Baloo , Mowgli went on . 
They have promised me this . 
Ah ! Whoof ! Baloo's big paw scooped Mowgli off Bagheera's back , and as the boy lay between the big fore paws he could see the Bear was angry . 
Mowgli , said Baloo , thou hast been talking with the Bandar log the Monkey People . 
Mowgli looked at Bagheera to see if the Panther was angry too , and Bagheera's eyes were as hard as jade stones . 
Thou hast been with the Monkey People the gray apes the people without a law the eaters of everything . 
, I went away , and the gray apes came down from the trees and had pity on me . 
The pity of the Monkey People ! Baloo snorted . 
They have no leader , said Bagheera . 
They were very kind and bade me come again . 
Why have I never been taken among the Monkey People ? They stand on their feet as I do . 
They do not hit me with their hard paws . 
Let me get up ! Bad Baloo , let me up ! I will play with them again . 
Listen , man cub , said the Bear , and his voice rumbled like thunder on a hot night . 
I have taught thee all the Law of the Jungle for all the peoples of the jungle except the Monkey Folk who live in the trees . 
They have no speech of their own , but use the stolen words which they overhear when they listen , and peep , and wait up above in the branches . 
Their way is not our way . 
We of the jungle have no dealings with them . 
We do not drink where the monkeys drink we do not go where the monkeys go we do not hunt where they hunt we do not die where they die . 
Hast thou ever heard me speak of the Bandar log till today ? No , said Mowgli in a whisper , for the forest was very still now Baloo had finished . 
The Jungle People put them out of their mouths and out of their minds . 
They are very many , evil , dirty , shameless , and they desire , if they have any fixed desire , to be noticed by the Jungle People . 
But we do not notice them even when they throw nuts and filth on our heads . 
The Monkey People are forbidden , said Baloo , forbidden to the Jungle People . 
Forbidden , said Bagheera , but I still think Baloo should have warned thee against them . 
I I ? How was I to guess he would play with such dirt . 
The Monkey People ! Faugh ! A fresh shower came down on their heads and the two trotted away , taking Mowgli with them . 
What Baloo had said about the monkeys was perfectly true . 
They belonged to the tree tops , and as beasts very seldom look up , there was no occasion for the monkeys and the Jungle People to cross each other's path . 
Of course Mowgli , as a woodcutter's child , inherited all sorts of instincts , and used to make little huts of fallen branches without thinking how he came to do it . 
The Monkey People , watching in the trees , considered his play most wonderful . 
This time , they said , they were really going to have a leader and become the wisest people in the jungle so wise that everyone else would notice and envy them . 
The Bandar log howled with triumph and scuffled away to the upper branches where Bagheera dared not follow , shouting He has noticed us ! Bagheera has noticed us . 
All the Jungle People admire us for our skill and our cunning . 
Then they began their flight and the flight of the Monkey People through tree land is one of the things nobody can describe . 
Two of the strongest monkeys caught Mowgli under the arms and swung off with him through the treetops , twenty feet at a bound . 
Had they been alone they could have gone twice as fast , but the boy's weight held them back . 
So , bounding and crashing and whooping and yelling , the whole tribe of Bandar log swept along the tree roads with Mowgli their prisoner . 
For a time he was afraid of being dropped . 
Then he grew angry but knew better than to struggle , and then he began to think . 
The first thing was to send back word to Baloo and Bagheera , for , at the pace the monkeys were going , he knew his friends would be left far behind . 
Rann saw that the monkeys were carrying something , and dropped a few hundred yards to find out whether their load was good to eat . 
Mark my trail ! Mowgli shouted . 
Tell Baloo of the Seeonee Pack and Bagheera of the Council Rock . 
In whose name , Brother ? Rann had never seen Mowgli before , though of course he had heard of him . 
They never go far , he said with a chuckle . 
They never do what they set out to do . 
Always pecking at new things are the Bandar log . 
So he rocked on his wings , his feet gathered up under him , and waited . 
Meantime , Baloo and Bagheera were furious with rage and grief . 
Bagheera climbed as he had never climbed before , but the thin branches broke beneath his weight , and he slipped down , his claws full of bark . 
Why didst thou not warn the man cub ? he roared to poor Baloo , who had set off at a clumsy trot in the hope of overtaking the monkeys . 
What was the use of half slaying him with blows if thou didst not warn him ? Haste ! O haste ! We we may catch them yet ! Baloo panted . 
At that speed ! It would not tire a wounded cow . 
Teacher of the Law cub beater a mile of that rolling to and fro would burst thee open . 
Sit still and think ! Make a plan . 
This is no time for chasing . 
They may drop him if we follow too close . 
Arrula ! Whoo ! They may have dropped him already , being tired of carrying him . 
Baloo clasped his paws over his ears and rolled to and fro moaning . 
At least he gave me all the Words correctly a little time ago , said Bagheera impatiently . 
Baloo , thou hast neither memory nor respect . 
Unless and until they drop him from the branches in sport , or kill him out of idleness , I have no fear for the man cub . 
He is wise and well taught , and above all he has the eyes that make the Jungle People afraid . 
he is in the power of the Bandar log , and they , because they live in trees , have no fear of any of our people . 
Bagheera licked one forepaw thoughtfully . 
He can climb as well as they can . 
He steals the young monkeys in the night . 
The whisper of his name makes their wicked tails cold . 
Let us go to Kaa . 
What will he do for us ? He is not of our tribe , being footless and with most evil eyes , said Bagheera . 
He is very old and very cunning . 
Above all , he is always hungry , said Baloo hopefully . 
He sleeps for a full month after he has once eaten . 
Then in that case , thou and I together , old hunter , might make him see reason . 
Here Baloo rubbed his faded brown shoulder against the Panther , and they went off to look for Kaa the Rock Python . 
He has not eaten , said Baloo , with a grunt of relief , as soon as he saw the beautifully mottled brown and yellow jacket . 
Be careful , Bagheera ! He is always a little blind after he has changed his skin , and very quick to strike . 
Good hunting ! cried Baloo , sitting up on his haunches . 
Like all snakes of his breed Kaa was rather deaf , and did not hear the call at first . 
Then he curled up ready for any accident , his head lowered . 
Good hunting for us all , he answered . 
Oho , Baloo , what dost thou do here ? Good hunting , Bagheera . 
One of us at least needs food . 
Is there any news of game afoot ? A doe now , or even a young buck ? I am as empty as a dried well . 
We are hunting , said Baloo carelessly . 
He knew that you must not hurry Kaa . 
Give me permission to come with you , said Kaa . 
Psshaw ! The branches are not what they were when I was young . 
Rotten twigs and dry boughs are they all . 
Maybe thy great weight has something to do with the matter , said Baloo . 
I am a fair length a fair length , said Kaa with a little pride . 
But for all that , it is the fault of this new grown timber . 
Footless , yellow earth worm , said Bagheera under his whiskers , as though he were trying to remember something . 
Sssss ! Have they ever called me that ? said Kaa . 
Something of that kind it was that they shouted to us last moon , but we never noticed them . 
because thou art afraid of the he goat's horns , Bagheera went on sweetly . 
The Bandar log have shifted their grounds , he said quietly . 
When I came up into the sun today I heard them whooping among the tree tops . 
The trouble is this , Kaa . 
Those nut stealers and pickers of palm leaves have stolen away our man cub of whom thou hast perhaps heard . 
of a man thing that was entered into a wolf pack , but I did not believe . 
Ikki is full of stories half heard and very badly told . 
He is such a man cub as never was , said Baloo . 
Ts ! Ts ! said Kaa , weaving his head to and fro . 
I also have known what love is . 
There are tales I could tell that That need a clear night when we are all well fed to praise properly , said Bagheera quickly . 
Our man cub is in the hands of the Bandar log now , and we know that of all the Jungle People they fear Kaa alone . 
They have good reason , said Kaa . 
Chattering , foolish , vain vain , foolish , and chattering , are the monkeys . 
But a man thing in their hands is in no good luck . 
They grow tired of the nuts they pick , and throw them down . 
They carry a branch half a day , meaning to do great things with it , and then they snap it in two . 
That man thing is not to be envied . 
They called me also yellow fish' was it not ? Worm worm earth worm , said Bagheera , as well as other things which I cannot now say for shame . 
We must remind them to speak well of their master . 
Aaa ssp ! We must help their wandering memories . 
Now , whither went they with the cub ? The jungle alone knows . 
Toward the sunset , I believe , said Baloo . 
We had thought that thou wouldst know , Kaa . 
It was near Rann's bedtime , but he had ranged all over the jungle looking for the Bear and had missed him in the thick foliage . 
What is it ? said Baloo . 
I have seen Mowgli among the Bandar log . 
He bade me tell you . 
The Bandar log have taken him beyond the river to the monkey city to the Cold Lairs . 
They may stay there for a night , or ten nights , or an hour . 
I have told the bats to watch through the dark time . 
Good hunting , all you below ! Full gorge and a deep sleep to you , Rann , cried Bagheera . 
I will remember thee in my next kill , and put aside the head for thee alone , O best of kites ! It is nothing . 
The boy held the Master Word . 
I could have done no less , and Rann circled up again to his roost . 
He has not forgotten to use his tongue , said Baloo with a chuckle of pride . 
To think of one so young remembering the Master Word for the birds too while he was being pulled across trees ! It was most firmly driven into him , said Bagheera . 
But I am proud of him , and now we must go to the Cold Lairs . 
The wild boar will , but the hunting tribes do not . 
It is half a night's journey at full speed , said Bagheera , and Baloo looked very serious . 
I will go as fast as I can , he said anxiously . 
We dare not wait for thee . 
We must go on the quick foot Kaa and I. Feet or no feet , I can keep abreast of all thy four , said Kaa shortly . 
Kaa said nothing , but , strive as Bagheera might , the huge Rock python held level with him . 
By the Broken Lock that freed me , said Bagheera , when twilight had fallen , thou art no slow goer ! I am hungry , said Kaa . 
Besides , they called me speckled frog . 
Worm earth worm , and yellow to boot . 
Let us go on , and Kaa seemed to pour himself along the ground , finding the shortest road with his steady eyes , and keeping to it . 
In the Cold Lairs the Monkey People were not thinking of Mowgli's friends at all . 
They had brought the boy to the Lost City , and were very much pleased with themselves for the time . 
Mowgli had never seen an Indian city before , and though this was almost a heap of ruins it seemed very wonderful and splendid . 
Some king had built it long ago on a little hill . 
You could still trace the stone causeways that led up to the ruined gates where the last splinters of wood hung to the worn , rusted hinges . 
The monkeys called the place their city , and pretended to despise the Jungle People because they lived in the forest . 
And yet they never knew what the buildings were made for nor how to use them . 
Then all would begin again till they grew tired of the city and went back to the tree tops , hoping the Jungle People would notice them . 
Mowgli , who had been trained under the Law of the Jungle , did not like or understand this kind of life . 
I wish to eat , said Mowgli . 
I am a stranger in this part of the jungle . 
Bring me food , or give me leave to hunt here . 
Twenty or thirty monkeys bounded away to bring him nuts and wild pawpaws . 
But they fell to fighting on the road , and it was too much trouble to go back with what was left of the fruit . 
All that Baloo has said about the Bandar log is true , he thought to himself . 
They have no Law , no Hunting Call , and no leaders nothing but foolish words and little picking thievish hands . 
So if I am starved or killed here , it will be all my own fault . 
But I must try to return to my own jungle . 
Baloo will surely beat me , but that is better than chasing silly rose leaves with the Bandar log . 
He set his teeth and said nothing , but went with the shouting monkeys to a terrace above the red sandstone reservoirs that were half full of rain water . 
There was a ruined summer house of white marble in the center of the terrace , built for queens dead a hundred years ago . 
The domed roof had half fallen in and blocked up the underground passage from the palace by which the queens used to enter . 
We are the most wonderful people in all the jungle ! We all say so , and so it must be true , they shouted . 
Mowgli nodded and blinked , and said Yes when they asked him a question , and his head spun with the noise . 
Tabaqui the Jackal must have bitten all these people , he said to himself , and now they have madness . 
Certainly this is dewanee , the madness . 
Do they never go to sleep ? Now there is a cloud coming to cover that moon . 
If it were only a big enough cloud I might try to run away in the darkness . 
The monkeys never fight unless they are a hundred to one , and few in the jungle care for those odds . 
I will go to the west wall , Kaa whispered , and come down swiftly with the slope of the ground in my favor . 
They will not throw themselves upon my back in their hundreds , but I know it , said Bagheera . 
Would that Baloo were here , but we must do what we can . 
When that cloud covers the moon I shall go to the terrace . 
They hold some sort of council there over the boy . 
Good hunting , said Kaa grimly , and glided away to the west wall . 
That happened to be the least ruined of any , and the big snake was delayed awhile before he could find a way up the stones . 
The cloud hid the moon , and as Mowgli wondered what would come next he heard Bagheera's light feet on the terrace . 
Stay there , shouted the monkeys , till we have killed thy friends , and later we will play with thee if the Poison People leave thee alive . 
We be of one blood , ye and I , said Mowgli , quickly giving the Snake's Call . 
He could hear rustling and hissing in the rubbish all round him and gave the Call a second time , to make sure . 
Stand still , Little Brother , for thy feet may do us harm . 
For the first time since he was born , Bagheera was fighting for his life . 
Baloo must be at hand Bagheera would not have come alone , Mowgli thought . 
And then he called aloud To the tank , Bagheera . 
Roll to the water tanks . 
Roll and plunge ! Get to the water ! Bagheera heard , and the cry that told him Mowgli was safe gave him new courage . 
He worked his way desperately , inch by inch , straight for the reservoirs , halting in silence . 
Then from the ruined wall nearest the jungle rose up the rumbling war shout of Baloo . 
The old Bear had done his best , but he could not come before . 
Bagheera , he shouted , I am here . 
A crash and a splash told Mowgli that Bagheera had fought his way to the tank where the monkeys could not follow . 
Even Baloo , half smothered under the monkeys on the edge of the terrace , could not help chuckling as he heard the Black Panther asking for help . 
Kaa had only just worked his way over the west wall , landing with a wrench that dislodged a coping stone into the ditch . 
Then Kaa came straight , quickly , and anxious to kill . 
The fighting strength of a python is in the driving blow of his head backed by all the strength and weight of his body . 
A python four or five feet long can knock a man down if he hits him fairly in the chest , and Kaa was thirty feet long , as you know . 
His first stroke was delivered into the heart of the crowd round Baloo . 
It was sent home with shut mouth in silence , and there was no need of a second . 
And so they ran , stammering with terror , to the walls and the roofs of the houses , and Baloo drew a deep breath of relief . 
His fur was much thicker than Bagheera's , but he had suffered sorely in the fight . 
Then the clamor broke out again . 
The monkeys leaped higher up the walls . 
Get the man cub out of that trap I can do no more , Bagheera gasped . 
Let us take the man cub and go . 
They will not move till I order them . 
Stay you sssso ! Kaa hissed , and the city was silent once more . 
I could not come before , Brother , but I think I heard thee call this was to Bagheera . 
I I may have cried out in the battle , Bagheera answered . 
Baloo , art thou hurt ? I am not sure that they did not pull me into a hundred little bearlings , said Baloo , gravely shaking one leg after the other . 
Wow ! I am sore . 
Kaa , we owe thee , I think , our lives Bagheera and I. No matter . 
Where is the manling ? Here , in a trap . 
I cannot climb out , cried Mowgli . 
The curve of the broken dome was above his head . 
He dances like Mao the Peacock . 
He will crush our young , said the cobras inside . 
Hah ! said Kaa with a chuckle , he has friends everywhere , this manling . 
And hide you , O Poison People . 
I break down the wall . 
Art thou hurt ? said Baloo , hugging him softly . 
I am sore , hungry , and not a little bruised . 
But , oh , they have handled ye grievously , my Brothers ! Ye bleed . 
Others also , said Bagheera , licking his lips and looking at the monkey dead on the terrace and round the tank . 
It is nothing , it is nothing , if thou art safe , oh , my pride of all little frogs ! whimpered Baloo . 
Of that we shall judge later , said Bagheera , in a dry voice that Mowgli did not at all like . 
But here is Kaa to whom we owe the battle and thou owest thy life . 
Thank him according to our customs , Mowgli . 
Mowgli turned and saw the great Python's head swaying a foot above his own . 
So this is the manling , said Kaa . 
Very soft is his skin , and he is not unlike the Bandar log . 
Have a care , manling , that I do not mistake thee for a monkey some twilight when I have newly changed my coat . 
We be one blood , thou and I , Mowgli answered . 
I take my life from thee tonight . 
My kill shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry , O Kaa . 
All thanks , Little Brother , said Kaa , though his eyes twinkled . 
And what may so bold a hunter kill ? I ask that I may follow when next he goes abroad . 
I kill nothing , I am too little , but I drive goats toward such as can use them . 
When thou art empty come to me and see if I speak the truth . 
Good hunting to ye all , my masters . 
Well said , growled Baloo , for Mowgli had returned thanks very prettily . 
The Python dropped his head lightly for a minute on Mowgli's shoulder . 
A brave heart and a courteous tongue , said he . 
They shall carry thee far through the jungle , manling . 
But now go hence quickly with thy friends . 
Go and sleep , for the moon sets , and what follows it is not well that thou shouldst see . 
The moon was sinking behind the hills and the lines of trembling monkeys huddled together on the walls and battlements looked like ragged shaky fringes of things . 
The moon sets , he said . 
Is there yet light enough to see ? From the walls came a moan like the wind in the tree tops We see , O Kaa . 
Begins now the dance the Dance of the Hunger of Kaa . 
He turned twice or thrice in a big circle , weaving his head from right to left . 
It grew darker and darker , till at last the dragging , shifting coils disappeared , but they could hear the rustle of the scales . 
Baloo and Bagheera stood still as stone , growling in their throats , their neck hair bristling , and Mowgli watched and wondered . 
The lines of the monkeys swayed forward helplessly , and Baloo and Bagheera took one stiff step forward with them . 
Nearer ! hissed Kaa , and they all moved again . 
Mowgli laid his hands on Baloo and Bagheera to get them away , and the two great beasts started as though they had been waked from a dream . 
Keep thy hand on my shoulder , Bagheera whispered . 
Keep it there , or I must go back must go back to Kaa . 
Aah ! It is only old Kaa making circles on the dust , said Mowgli . 
And the three slipped off through a gap in the walls to the jungle . 
Whoof ! said Baloo , when he stood under the still trees again . 
Never more will I make an ally of Kaa , and he shook himself all over . 
He knows more than we , said Bagheera , trembling . 
In a little time , had I stayed , I should have walked down his throat . 
Many will walk by that road before the moon rises again , said Baloo . 
He will have good hunting after his own fashion . 
But what was the meaning of it all ? said Mowgli , who did not know anything of a python's powers of fascination . 
I saw no more than a big snake making foolish circles till the dark came . 
And his nose was all sore . 
Neither Baloo nor Bagheera will be able to hunt with pleasure for many days . 
It is nothing , said Baloo we have the man cub again . 
All this , man cub , came of thy playing with the Bandar log . 
True , it is true , said Mowgli sorrowfully . 
I am an evil man cub , and my stomach is sad in me . 
But remember , Bagheera , he is very little . 
But he has done mischief , and blows must be dealt now . 
Mowgli , hast thou anything to say ? Nothing . 
Baloo and thou are wounded . 
, but for a seven year old boy they amounted to as severe a beating as you could wish to avoid . 
When it was all over Mowgli sneezed , and picked himself up without a word . 
Now , said Bagheera , jump on my back , Little Brother , and we will go home . 
One of the beauties of Jungle Law is that punishment settles all scores . 
There is no nagging afterward . 
Mowgli laid his head down on Bagheera's back and slept so deeply that he never waked when he was put down in the home cave . 
never mind , Brother , thy tail hangs down behind ! This is the way of the Monkey kind . 
Then join our leaping lines that scumfish through the pines , That rocket by where , light and high , the wild grape swings . 
What of the quarry ye went to kill ? Brother , he crops in the jungle still . 
Where is the power that made your pride ? Brother , it ebbs from my flank and side . 
Where is the haste that ye hurry by ? Brother , I go to my lair to die . 
Now we must go back to the first tale . 
The valley opened out into a great plain dotted over with rocks and cut up by ravines . 
Umph ! he said , for he had come across more than one such barricade in his night rambles after things to eat . 
So men are afraid of the People of the Jungle here also . 
He sat down by the gate , and when a man came out he stood up , opened his mouth , and pointed down it to show that he wanted food . 
The priest came to the gate , and with him at least a hundred people , who stared and talked and shouted and pointed at Mowgli . 
They have no manners , these Men Folk , said Mowgli to himself . 
Only the gray ape would behave as they do . 
So he threw back his long hair and frowned at the crowd . 
What is there to be afraid of ? said the priest . 
Look at the marks on his arms and legs . 
They are the bites of wolves . 
He is but a wolf child run away from the jungle . 
Of course , in playing together , the cubs had often nipped Mowgli harder than they intended , and there were white scars all over his arms and legs . 
But he would have been the last person in the world to call these bites , for he knew what real biting meant . 
Arre ! Arre ! said two or three women together . 
To be bitten by wolves , poor child ! He is a handsome boy . 
He has eyes like red fire . 
By my honor , Messua , he is not unlike thy boy that was taken by the tiger . 
Let me look , said a woman with heavy copper rings on her wrists and ankles , and she peered at Mowgli under the palm of her hand . 
He is thinner , but he has the very look of my boy . 
The priest was a clever man , and he knew that Messua was wife to the richest villager in the place . 
So he looked up at the sky for a minute and said solemnly What the jungle has taken the jungle has restored . 
Take the boy into thy house , my sister , and forget not to honor the priest who sees so far into the lives of men . 
So she said , Nathoo , O Nathoo ! Mowgli did not show that he knew the name . 
Dost thou not remember the day when I gave thee thy new shoes ? She touched his foot , and it was almost as hard as horn . 
No , she said sorrowfully , those feet have never worn shoes , but thou art very like my Nathoo , and thou shalt be my son . 
Mowgli was uneasy , because he had never been under a roof before . 
But as he looked at the thatch , he saw that he could tear it out any time if he wanted to get away , and that the window had no fastenings . 
I must speak their talk . 
It was not for fun that he had learned while he was with the wolves to imitate the challenge of bucks in the jungle and the grunt of the little wild pig . 
So , as soon as Messua pronounced a word Mowgli would imitate it almost perfectly , and before dark he had learned the names of many things in the hut . 
Give him his will , said Messua's husband . 
Remember he can never till now have slept on a bed . 
If he is indeed sent in the place of our son he will not run away . 
So Mowgli stretched himself in some long , clean grass at the edge of the field , but before he had closed his eyes a soft gray nose poked him under the chin . 
This is a poor reward for following thee twenty miles . 
Thou smellest of wood smoke and cattle altogether like a man already . 
Wake , Little Brother I bring news . 
Are all well in the jungle ? said Mowgli , hugging him . 
All except the wolves that were burned with the Red Flower . 
Shere Khan has gone away to hunt far off till his coat grows again , for he is badly singed . 
When he returns he swears that he will lay thy bones in the Waingunga . 
There are two words to that . 
I also have made a little promise . 
But news is always good . 
I am tired to night , very tired with new things , Gray Brother , but bring me the news always . 
Thou wilt not forget that thou art a wolf ? Men will not make thee forget ? said Gray Brother anxiously . 
I will always remember that I love thee and all in our cave . 
But also I will always remember that I have been cast out of the Pack . 
And that thou mayest be cast out of another pack . 
Men are only men , Little Brother , and their talk is like the talk of frogs in a pond . 
When I come down here again , I will wait for thee in the bamboos at the edge of the grazing ground . 
For three months after that night Mowgli hardly ever left the village gate , he was so busy learning the ways and customs of men . 
Then the little children in the village made him very angry . 
He did not know his own strength in the least . 
In the jungle he knew he was weak compared with the beasts , but in the village people said that he was as strong as a bull . 
And Mowgli had not the faintest idea of the difference that caste makes between man and man . 
When the potter's donkey slipped in the clay pit , Mowgli hauled it out by the tail , and helped to stack the pots for their journey to the market at Khanhiwara . 
That was very shocking , too , for the potter is a low caste man , and his donkey is worse . 
till far into the night . 
Most of the tales were about animals , for the jungle was always at their door . 
The deer and the wild pig grubbed up their crops , and now and again the tiger carried off a man at twilight , within sight of the village gates . 
True , true , that must be the truth , said the gray beards , nodding together . 
Are all these tales such cobwebs and moon talk ? said Mowgli . 
That tiger limps because he was born lame , as everyone knows . 
To talk of the soul of a money lender in a beast that never had the courage of a jackal is child's talk . 
Buldeo was speechless with surprise for a moment , and the head man stared . 
Oho ! It is the jungle brat , is it ? said Buldeo . 
If thou art so wise , better bring his hide to Khanhiwara , for the Government has set a hundred rupees on his life . 
Better still , talk not when thy elders speak . 
The custom of most Indian villages is for a few boys to take the cattle and buffaloes out to graze in the early morning , and bring them back at night . 
The very cattle that would trample a white man to death allow themselves to be banged and bullied and shouted at by children that hardly come up to their noses . 
So long as the boys keep with the herds they are safe , for not even the tiger will charge a mob of cattle . 
But if they straggle to pick flowers or hunt lizards , they are sometimes carried off . 
Mowgli went through the village street in the dawn , sitting on the back of Rama , the great herd bull . 
An Indian grazing ground is all rocks and scrub and tussocks and little ravines , among which the herds scatter and disappear . 
The buffaloes generally keep to the pools and muddy places , where they lie wallowing or basking in the warm mud for hours . 
Ah , said Gray Brother , I have waited here very many days . 
What is the meaning of this cattle herding work ? It is an order , said Mowgli . 
I am a village herd for a while . 
What news of Shere Khan ? He has come back to this country , and has waited here a long time for thee . 
Now he has gone off again , for the game is scarce . 
But he means to kill thee . 
Very good , said Mowgli . 
So long as he is away do thou or one of the four brothers sit on that rock , so that I can see thee as I come out of the village . 
When he comes back wait for me in the ravine by the dhak tree in the center of the plain . 
We need not walk into Shere Khan's mouth . 
Then Mowgli picked out a shady place , and lay down and slept while the buffaloes grazed round him . 
Herding in India is one of the laziest things in the world . 
The cattle move and crunch , and lie down , and move on again , and they do not even low . 
, and day after day he would lie on the grass listening to the noises round him , and dreaming of old days in the jungle . 
If Shere Khan had made a false step with his lame paw up in the jungles by the Waingunga , Mowgli would have heard him in those long , still mornings . 
There sat Gray Brother , every bristle on his back lifted . 
He has hidden for a month to throw thee off thy guard . 
He crossed the ranges last night with Tabaqui , hot foot on thy trail , said the Wolf , panting . 
I am not afraid of Shere Khan , but Tabaqui is very cunning . 
Have no fear , said Gray Brother , licking his lips a little . 
I met Tabaqui in the dawn . 
Now he is telling all his wisdom to the kites , but he told me everything before I broke his back . 
Shere Khan's plan is to wait for thee at the village gate this evening for thee and for no one else . 
He is lying up now , in the big dry ravine of the Waingunga . 
Has he eaten today , or does he hunt empty ? said Mowgli , for the answer meant life and death to him . 
He killed at dawn , a pig , and he has drunk too . 
Remember , Shere Khan could never fast , even for the sake of revenge . 
These buffaloes will not charge unless they wind him , and I cannot speak their language . 
Can we get behind his track so that they may smell it ? He swam far down the Waingunga to cut that off , said Gray Brother . 
Tabaqui told him that , I know . 
He would never have thought of it alone . 
Mowgli stood with his finger in his mouth , thinking . 
The big ravine of the Waingunga . 
That opens out on the plain not half a mile from here . 
I can take the herd round through the jungle to the head of the ravine and then sweep down but he would slink out at the foot . 
We must block that end . 
Gray Brother , canst thou cut the herd in two for me ? Not I , perhaps but I have brought a wise helper . 
Gray Brother trotted off and dropped into a hole . 
Akela ! Akela ! said Mowgli , clapping his hands . 
I might have known that thou wouldst not forget me . 
We have a big work in hand . 
Cut the herd in two , Akela . 
Keep the cows and calves together , and the bulls and the plow buffaloes by themselves . 
The two wolves ran , ladies' chain fashion , in and out of the herd , which snorted and threw up its head , and separated into two clumps . 
In the other , the bulls and the young bulls snorted and stamped , but though they looked more imposing they were much less dangerous , for they had no calves to protect . 
No six men could have divided the herd so neatly . 
What orders ! panted Akela . 
They are trying to join again . 
Mowgli slipped on to Rama's back . 
Drive the bulls away to the left , Akela . 
Gray Brother , when we are gone , hold the cows together , and drive them into the foot of the ravine . 
How far ? said Gray Brother , panting and snapping . 
Till the sides are higher than Shere Khan can jump , shouted Mowgli . 
Keep them there till we come down . 
The bulls swept off as Akela bayed , and Gray Brother stopped in front of the cows . 
They charged down on him , and he ran just before them to the foot of the ravine , as Akela drove the bulls far to the left . 
Well done ! Another charge and they are fairly started . 
Careful , now careful , Akela . 
A snap too much and the bulls will charge . 
Hujah ! This is wilder work than driving black buck . 
Didst thou think these creatures could move so swiftly ? Mowgli called . 
I have have hunted these too in my time , gasped Akela in the dust . 
Shall I turn them into the jungle ? Ay ! Turn . 
Swiftly turn them ! Rama is mad with rage . 
Oh , if I could only tell him what I need of him to day . 
The bulls were turned , to the right this time , and crashed into the standing thicket . 
But Mowgli's plan was simple enough . 
He was soothing the buffaloes now by voice , and Akela had dropped far to the rear , only whimpering once or twice to hurry the rear guard . 
It was a long , long circle , for they did not wish to get too near the ravine and give Shere Khan warning . 
At last Mowgli rounded up the bewildered herd at the head of the ravine on a grassy patch that sloped steeply down to the ravine itself . 
Let them breathe , Akela , he said , holding up his hand . 
They have not winded him yet . 
I must tell Shere Khan who comes . 
We have him in the trap . 
He put his hands to his mouth and shouted down the ravine it was almost like shouting down a tunnel and the echoes jumped from rock to rock . 
After a long time there came back the drawling , sleepy snarl of a full fed tiger just wakened . 
Who calls ? said Shere Khan , and a splendid peacock fluttered up out of the ravine screeching . 
Once started , there was no chance of stopping , and before they were fairly in the bed of the ravine Rama winded Shere Khan and bellowed . 
Ha ! Ha ! said Mowgli , on his back . 
They knew what the business was before them the terrible charge of the buffalo herd against which no tiger can hope to stand . 
The herd splashed through the pool he had just left , bellowing till the narrow cut rang . 
That charge carried both herds out into the plain , goring and stamping and snorting . 
Mowgli watched his time , and slipped off Rama's neck , laying about him right and left with his stick . 
Quick , Akela ! Break them up . 
Scatter them , or they will be fighting one another . 
Drive them away , Akela . 
Hai , Rama ! Hai , hai , hai ! my children . 
Softly now , softly ! It is all over . 
Shere Khan needed no more trampling . 
He was dead , and the kites were coming for him already . 
Brothers , that was a dog's death , said Mowgli , feeling for the knife he always carried in a sheath round his neck now that he lived with men . 
But he would never have shown fight . 
His hide will look well on the Council Rock . 
We must get to work swiftly . 
Presently a hand fell on his shoulder , and looking up he saw Buldeo with the Tower musket . 
The children had told the village about the buffalo stampede , and Buldeo went out angrily , only too anxious to correct Mowgli for not taking better care of the herd . 
The wolves dropped out of sight as soon as they saw the man coming . 
What is this folly ? said Buldeo angrily . 
To think that thou canst skin a tiger ! Where did the buffaloes kill him ? It is the Lame Tiger too , and there is a hundred rupees on his head . 
He fumbled in his waist cloth for flint and steel , and stooped down to singe Shere Khan's whiskers . 
Most native hunters always singe a tiger's whiskers to prevent his ghost from haunting them . 
Hum ! said Mowgli , half to himself as he ripped back the skin of a forepaw . 
The tiger has just fed , or he would have gone twenty miles by this time . 
Thou canst not even skin him properly , little beggar brat , and forsooth I , Buldeo , must be told not to singe his whiskers . 
Mowgli , I will not give thee one anna of the reward , but only a very big beating . 
Ye es , he said , between his teeth . 
Thou art altogether right , Buldeo . 
Thou wilt never give me one anna of the reward . 
There is an old war between this lame tiger and myself a very old war , and I have won . 
It was sorcery , magic of the worst kind , thought Buldeo , and he wondered whether the amulet round his neck would protect him . 
He lay as still as still , expecting every minute to see Mowgli turn into a tiger too . 
Maharaj ! Great King , he said at last in a husky whisper . 
Yes , said Mowgli , without turning his head , chuckling a little . 
I am an old man . 
I did not know that thou wast anything more than a herdsboy . 
May I rise up and go away , or will thy servant tear me to pieces ? Go , and peace go with thee . 
Only , another time do not meddle with my game . 
Let him go , Akela . 
Buldeo hobbled away to the village as fast as he could , looking back over his shoulder in case Mowgli should change into something terrible . 
When he got to the village he told a tale of magic and enchantment and sorcery that made the priest look very grave . 
Mowgli went on with his work , but it was nearly twilight before he and the wolves had drawn the great gay skin clear of the body . 
Now we must hide this and take the buffaloes home ! Help me to herd them , Akela . 
The herd rounded up in the misty twilight , and when they got near the village Mowgli saw lights , and heard the conches and bells in the temple blowing and banging . 
Half the village seemed to be waiting for him by the gate . 
That is because I have killed Shere Khan , he said to himself . 
Shoot , Buldeo , shoot ! The old Tower musket went off with a bang , and a young buffalo bellowed in pain . 
More sorcery ! shouted the villagers . 
Buldeo , that was thy buffalo . 
Now what is this ? said Mowgli , bewildered , as the stones flew thicker . 
They are not unlike the Pack , these brothers of thine , said Akela , sitting down composedly . 
It is in my head that , if bullets mean anything , they would cast thee out . 
Wolf ! Wolf's cub ! Go away ! shouted the priest , waving a sprig of the sacred tulsi plant . 
Again ? Last time it was because I was a man . 
This time it is because I am a wolf . 
Let us go , Akela . 
I do not believe , but go away or they will kill thee . 
Buldeo says thou art a wizard , but I know thou hast avenged Nathoo's death . 
Come back , Messua ! shouted the crowd . 
Come back , or we will stone thee . 
Mowgli laughed a little short ugly laugh , for a stone had hit him in the mouth . 
This is one of the foolish tales they tell under the big tree at dusk . 
I have at least paid for thy son's life . 
Farewell and run quickly , for I shall send the herd in more swiftly than their brickbats . 
I am no wizard , Messua . 
Farewell ! Now , once more , Akela , he cried . 
The buffaloes were anxious enough to get to the village . 
They hardly needed Akela's yell , but charged through the gate like a whirlwind , scattering the crowd right and left . 
Keep count ! shouted Mowgli scornfully . 
It may be that I have stolen one of them . 
Keep count , for I will do your herding no more . 
Fare you well , children of men , and thank Messua that I do not come in with my wolves and hunt you up and down your street . 
He turned on his heel and walked away with the Lone Wolf , and as he looked up at the stars he felt happy . 
No more sleeping in traps for me , Akela . 
Let us get Shere Khan's skin and go away . 
No , we will not hurt the village , for Messua was kind to me . 
Then they banged the temple bells and blew the conches louder than ever . 
The moon was just going down when Mowgli and the two wolves came to the hill of the Council Rock , and they stopped at Mother Wolf's cave . 
They have cast me out from the Man Pack , Mother , shouted Mowgli , but I come with the hide of Shere Khan to keep my word . 
Mother Wolf walked stiffly from the cave with the cubs behind her , and her eyes glowed as she saw the skin . 
Little Brother , it is well done , said a deep voice in the thicket . 
We were lonely in the jungle without thee , and Bagheera came running to Mowgli's bare feet . 
Ever since Akela had been deposed , the Pack had been without a leader , hunting and fighting at their own pleasure . 
Look well , O Wolves . 
Have I kept my word ? said Mowgli . 
And the wolves bayed Yes , and one tattered wolf howled Lead us again , O Akela . 
Lead us again , O Man cub , for we be sick of this lawlessness , and we would be the Free People once more . 
Nay , purred Bagheera , that may not be . 
When ye are full fed , the madness may come upon you again . 
Not for nothing are ye called the Free People . 
Ye fought for freedom , and it is yours . 
Eat it , O Wolves . 
Man Pack and Wolf Pack have cast me out , said Mowgli . 
Now I will hunt alone in the jungle . 
And we will hunt with thee , said the four cubs . 
So Mowgli went away and hunted with the four cubs in the jungle from that day on . 
But he was not always alone , because , years afterward , he became a man and married . 
But that is a story for grown ups . 
Mowgli's Song THAT HE SANG AT THE COUNCIL ROCK WHEN HE DANCED ON SHERE KHAN'S HIDE The Song of Mowgli I , Mowgli , am singing . 
Let the jungle listen to the things I have done . 
Shere Khan said he would kill would kill ! At the gates in the twilight he would kill Mowgli , the Frog ! He ate and he drank . 
Drink deep , Shere Khan , for when wilt thou drink again ? Sleep and dream of the kill . 
I am alone on the grazing grounds . 
Drive them to and fro as I order . 
Sleepest thou still , Shere Khan ? Wake , oh , wake ! Here come I , and the bulls are behind . 
Rama , the King of the Buffaloes , stamped with his foot . 
Waters of the Waingunga , whither went Shere Khan ? He is not Ikki to dig holes , nor Mao , the Peacock , that he should fly . 
He is not Mang the Bat , to hang in the branches . 
Little bamboos that creak together , tell me where he ran ? Ow ! He is there . 
Ahoo ! He is there . 
We will not wake him , for his strength is very great . 
The kites have come down to see it . 
The black ants have come up to know it . 
There is a great assembly in his honor . 
Alala ! I have no cloth to wrap me . 
The kites will see that I am naked . 
I am ashamed to meet all these people . 
Lend me thy coat , Shere Khan . 
Lend me thy gay striped coat that I may go to the Council Rock . 
By the Bull that bought me I made a promise a little promise . 
Only thy coat is lacking before I keep my word . 
With the knife , with the knife that men use , with the knife of the hunter , I will stoop down for my gift . 
Waters of the Waingunga , Shere Khan gives me his coat for the love that he bears me . 
Pull , Gray Brother ! Pull , Akela ! Heavy is the hide of Shere Khan . 
The Man Pack are angry . 
They throw stones and talk child's talk . 
Through the night , through the hot night , run swiftly with me , my brothers . 
We will leave the lights of the village and go to the low moon . 
Waters of the Waingunga , the Man Pack have cast me out . 
I did them no harm , but they were afraid of me . 
Why ? Wolf Pack , ye have cast me out too . 
The jungle is shut to me and the village gates are shut . 
Why ? As Mang flies between the beasts and birds , so fly I between the village and the jungle . 
Why ? I dance on the hide of Shere Khan , but my heart is very heavy . 
My mouth is cut and wounded with the stones from the village , but my heart is very light , because I have come back to the jungle . 
Why ? These two things fight together in me as the snakes fight in the spring . 
The water comes out of my eyes yet I laugh while it falls . 
Why ? I am two Mowglis , but the hide of Shere Khan is under my feet . 
All the jungle knows that I have killed Shere Khan . 
Look look well , O Wolves ! Ahae ! My heart is heavy with the things that I do not understand . 
The White Seal Oh ! hush thee , my baby , the night is behind us , And black are the waters that sparkled so green . 
The moon , o'er the combers , looks downward to find us At rest in the hollows that rustle between . 
Paul , away and away in the Bering Sea . 
Limmershin is a very quaint little bird , but he knows how to tell the truth . 
Nobody comes to Novastoshnah except on business , and the only people who have regular business there are the seals . 
They come in the summer months by hundreds and hundreds of thousands out of the cold gray sea . 
For Novastoshnah Beach has the finest accommodation for seals of any place in all the world . 
Sea Catch was fifteen years old , a huge gray fur seal with almost a mane on his shoulders , and long , wicked dog teeth . 
He was scarred all over with the marks of savage fights , but he was always ready for just one fight more . 
Yet Sea Catch never chased a beaten seal , for that was against the Rules of the Beach . 
He only wanted room by the sea for his nursery . 
But as there were forty or fifty thousand other seals hunting for the same thing each spring , the whistling , bellowing , roaring , and blowing on the beach was something frightful . 
They were called the holluschickie the bachelors and there were perhaps two or three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah alone . 
Where have you been ? It was not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during the four months he stayed on the beaches , and so his temper was generally bad . 
Matkah knew better than to answer back . 
She looked round and cooed How thoughtful of you . 
You've taken the old place again . 
I should think I had , said Sea Catch . 
Look at me ! He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places one eye was almost out , and his sides were torn to ribbons . 
Oh , you men , you men ! Matkah said , fanning herself with her hind flipper . 
Why can't you be sensible and settle your places quietly ? You look as though you had been fighting with the Killer Whale . 
I haven't been doing anything but fight since the middle of May . 
The beach is disgracefully crowded this season . 
I've met at least a hundred seals from Lukannon Beach , house hunting . 
Why can't people stay where they belong ? I've often thought we should be much happier if we hauled out at Otter Island instead of this crowded place , said Matkah . 
Bah ! Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island . 
If we went there they would say we were afraid . 
We must preserve appearances , my dear . 
Now that all the seals and their wives were on the land , you could hear their clamor miles out to sea above the loudest gales . 
It is nearly always foggy at Novastoshnah , except when the sun comes out and makes everything look all pearly and rainbow colored for a little while . 
Sea Catch , she said , at last , our baby's going to be white ! Empty clam shells and dry seaweed ! snorted Sea Catch . 
There never has been such a thing in the world as a white seal . 
I can't help that , said Matkah there's going to be now . 
Are bad for baby seals , dear rat , As bad as bad can be But splash and grow strong , And you can't be wrong . 
Child of the Open Sea ! Of course the little fellow did not understand the words at first . 
The old people in the nurseries took no notice of them , and the holluschickie kept to their own grounds , and the babies had a beautiful playtime . 
When Matkah came back from her deep sea fishing she would go straight to their playground and call as a sheep calls for a lamb , and wait until she heard Kotick bleat . 
Then she would take the straightest of straight lines in his direction , striking out with her fore flippers and knocking the youngsters head over heels right and left . 
There were always a few hundred mothers hunting for their children through the playgrounds , and the babies were kept lively . 
Little seals can no more swim than little children , but they are unhappy till they learn . 
Late in October the seals began to leave St . 
Paul's for the deep sea , by families and tribes , and there was no more fighting over the nurseries , and the holluschickie played anywhere they liked . 
Next year , said Matkah to Kotick , you will be a holluschickie but this year you must learn how to catch fish . 
No cradle is so comfortable as the long , rocking swell of the Pacific . 
In a little time , she said , you'll know where to swim to , but just now we'll follow Sea Pig , the Porpoise , for he is very wise . 
A school of porpoises were ducking and tearing through the water , and little Kotick followed them as fast as he could . 
How do you know where to go to ? he panted . 
The leader of the school rolled his white eye and ducked under . 
My tail tingles , youngster , he said . 
That means there's a gale behind me . 
Come along ! When you're south of the Sticky Water he meant the Equator and your tail tingles , that means there's a gale in front of you and you must head north . 
Come along ! The water feels bad here . 
This was one of very many things that Kotick learned , and he was always learning . 
At the end of six months what Kotick did not know about deep sea fishing was not worth the knowing . 
And all that time he never set flipper on dry ground . 
And so they all came to the beaches where they had been born , and heard the old seals , their fathers , fighting in the rolling mist . 
That night Kotick danced the Fire dance with the yearling seals . 
Then they went inland to the holluschickie grounds and rolled up and down in the new wild wheat and told stories of what they had done while they had been at sea . 
The three and four year old holluschickie romped down from Hutchinson's Hill crying Out of the way , youngsters ! The sea is deep and you don't know all that's in it yet . 
Wait till you've rounded the Horn . 
Hi , you yearling , where did you get that white coat ? I didn't get it , said Kotick . 
The holluschickie just bundled off a few yards and sat staring stupidly . 
The men were no less than Kerick Booterin , the chief of the seal hunters on the island , and Patalamon , his son . 
Look ! There's a white seal ! Kerick Booterin turned nearly white under his oil and smoke , for he was an Aleut , and Aleuts are not clean people . 
Then he began to mutter a prayer . 
Don't touch him , Patalamon . 
There has never been a white seal since since I was born . 
Perhaps it is old Zaharrof's ghost . 
He was lost last year in the big gale . 
I'm not going near him , said Patalamon . 
Do you really think he is old Zaharrof come back ? I owe him for some gulls' eggs . 
Don't look at him , said Kerick . 
Head off that drove of four year olds . 
The men ought to skin two hundred to day , but it's the beginning of the season and they are new to the work . 
Quick ! Patalamon rattled a pair of seal's shoulder bones in front of a herd of holluschickie and they stopped dead , puffing and blowing . 
Then he stepped near and the seals began to move , and Kerick headed them inland , and they never tried to get back to their companions . 
Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of seals watched them being driven , but they went on playing just the same . 
I am going to follow , he said , and his eyes nearly popped out of his head as he shuffled along in the wake of the herd . 
The white seal is coming after us , cried Patalamon . 
That's the first time a seal has ever come to the killing grounds alone . 
Hsh ! Don't look behind you , said Kerick . 
It is Zaharrof's ghost ! I must speak to the priest about this . 
So they went on very slowly , past Sea Lion's Neck , past Webster House , till they came to the Salt House just beyond the sight of the seals on the beach . 
Kotick followed , panting and wondering . 
He thought that he was at the world's end , but the roar of the seal nurseries behind him sounded as loud as the roar of a train in a tunnel . 
That was enough for Kotick . 
back to the sea his little new mustache bristling with horror . 
At Sea Lion's Neck , where the great sea lions sit on the edge of the surf , he flung himself flipper overhead into the cool water and rocked there , gasping miserably . 
What's here ? said a sea lion gruffly , for as a rule the sea lions keep themselves to themselves . 
They're killing all the holluschickie on all the beaches ! The Sea Lion turned his head inshore . 
Your friends are making as much noise as ever . 
You must have seen old Kerick polishing off a drove . 
He's done that for thirty years . 
Well done for a yearling ! said the Sea Lion , who could appreciate good swimming . 
Isn't there any such island ? began Kotick . 
I've followed the poltoos the halibut for twenty years , and I can't say I've found it yet . 
But look here you seem to have a fondness for talking to your betters suppose you go to Walrus Islet and talk to Sea Vitch . 
Don't flounce off like that . 
It's a six mile swim , and if I were you I should haul out and take a nap first , little one . 
Wake up ! barked Kotick , for the gulls were making a great noise . 
Hi ! It's me , said Kotick , bobbing in the surf and looking like a little white slug . 
Kotick did not care to hear any more about skinning just then he had seen enough of it . 
So he called out Isn't there any place for seals to go where men don't ever come ? Go and find out , said Sea Vitch , shutting his eyes . 
All the population was yelling and screaming Clam eater ! Stareek old man ! while Sea Vitch rolled from side to side grunting and coughing . 
Now will you tell ? said Kotick , all out of breath . 
Go and ask Sea Cow , said Sea Vitch . 
If he is living still , he'll be able to tell you . 
How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him ? said Kotick , sheering off . 
He's the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch , screamed a Burgomaster gull , wheeling under Sea Vitch's nose . 
Uglier , and with worse manners ! Stareek ! Kotick swam back to Novastoshnah , leaving the gulls to scream . 
There he found that no one sympathized with him in his little attempt to discover a quiet place for the seals . 
But none of the other seals had seen the killing , and that made the difference between him and his friends . 
Besides , Kotick was a white seal . 
In another five years you ought to be able to fight for yourself . 
Even gentle Matkah , his mother , said You will never be able to stop the killing . 
Go and play in the sea , Kotick . 
And Kotick went off and danced the Fire dance with a very heavy little heart . 
That autumn he left the beach as soon as he could , and set off alone because of a notion in his bullet head . 
So he explored and explored by himself from the North to the South Pacific , swimming as much as three hundred miles in a day and a night . 
Or else he could see that seals had once visited the island and been killed off , and Kotick knew that where men had come once they would come again . 
Yet as he pulled out against the gale he could see that even there had once been a seal nursery . 
And it was so in all the other islands that he visited . 
But everywhere the People of the Sea told him the same things . 
Seals had come to those islands once upon a time , but men had killed them all off . 
, he found a few hundred mangy seals on a rock and they told him that men came there too . 
Now , said Kotick , I am going back to Novastoshnah , and if I am driven to the killing pens with the holluschickie I shall not care . 
The old seal said , Try once more . 
I am old , and I shall never live to see that day , but others will . 
Give me another season , he said . 
Remember , Mother , it is always the seventh wave that goes farthest up the beach . 
He chased them till he was tired , and then he curled himself up and went to sleep on the hollows of the ground swell that sets in to Copper Island . 
Then he jumped like a cat , for he saw huge things nosing about in the shoal water and browsing on the heavy fringes of the weeds . 
By the Great Combers of Magellan ! he said , beneath his mustache . 
They were between twenty and thirty feet long , and they had no hind flippers , but a shovel like tail that looked as if it had been whittled out of wet leather . 
Good sport , gentlemen ? The big things answered by bowing and waving their flippers like the Frog Footman . 
They tucked the stuff into their mouths and chumped solemnly . 
Messy style of feeding , that , said Kotick . 
They bowed again , and Kotick began to lose his temper . 
Very good , he said . 
If you do happen to have an extra joint in your front flipper you needn't show off so . 
I see you bow gracefully , but I should like to know your names . 
The split lips moved and twitched and the glassy green eyes stared , but they did not speak . 
You're the only people I've ever met uglier than Sea Vitch and with worse manners . 
But the sea cows did not answer because Sea Cow cannot talk . 
He has only six bones in his neck where he ought to have seven , and they say under the sea that that prevents him from speaking even to his companions . 
By daylight Kotick's mane was standing on end and his temper was gone where the dead crabs go . 
And what is good enough for the Sea Cow is good enough for the Sea Catch . 
All the same , I wish they'd hurry . 
It was weary work for Kotick . 
One night they sank through the shiny water sank like stones and for the first time since he had known them began to swim quickly . 
Kotick followed , and the pace astonished him , for he never dreamed that Sea Cow was anything of a swimmer . 
It was a long , long swim , and Kotick badly wanted fresh air before he was out of the dark tunnel they led him through . 
My wig ! he said , when he rose , gasping and puffing , into open water at the farther end . 
It was a long dive , but it was worth it . 
The sea cows had separated and were browsing lazily along the edges of the finest beaches that Kotick had ever seen . 
It's Novastoshnah over again , but ten times better , said Kotick . 
Sea Cow must be wiser than I thought . 
Men can't come down the cliffs , even if there were any men and the shoals to seaward would knock a ship to splinters . 
If any place in the sea is safe , this is it . 
Then he dived and made sure of the mouth of the tunnel , and raced through to the southward . 
Remember we've been fighting for our nurseries , and that's a thing you never did . 
You preferred prowling about in the sea . 
The other seals laughed at this , and the young seal began twisting his head from side to side . 
He had just married that year , and was making a great fuss about it . 
I've no nursery to fight for , said Kotick . 
I only want to show you all a place where you will be safe . 
What's the use of fighting ? Oh , if you're trying to back out , of course I've no more to say , said the young seal with an ugly chuckle . 
Will you come with me if I win ? said Kotick . 
And a green light came into his eye , for he was very angry at having to fight at all . 
Very good , said the young seal carelessly . 
If you win , I'll come . 
He had no time to change his mind , for Kotick's head was out and his teeth sunk in the blubber of the young seal's neck . 
Then he threw himself back on his haunches and hauled his enemy down the beach , shook him , and knocked him over . 
Then Kotick roared to the seals I've done my best for you these five seasons past . 
I've found you the island where you'll be safe , but unless your heads are dragged off your silly necks you won't believe . 
I'm going to teach you now . 
His curly white mane stood up with rage , and his eyes flamed , and his big dog teeth glistened , and he was splendid to look at . 
Now , he said , I've taught you your lesson . 
My wig ! said old Sea Catch , boosting himself up stiffly , for he was fearfully mauled . 
The Killer Whale himself could not have cut them up worse . 
Son , I'm proud of you , and what's more , I'll come with you to your island if there is such a place . 
Hear you , fat pigs of the sea . 
Who comes with me to the Sea Cow's tunnel ? Answer , or I shall teach you again , roared Kotick . 
There was a murmur like the ripple of the tide all up and down the beaches . 
We will come , said thousands of tired voices . 
We will follow Kotick , the White Seal . 
Then Kotick dropped his head between his shoulders and shut his eyes proudly . 
He was not a white seal any more , but red from head to tail . 
All the same he would have scorned to look at or touch one of his wounds . 
went away north to the Sea Cow's tunnel , Kotick leading them , and the seals that stayed at Novastoshnah called them idiots . 
Lukannon This is the great deep sea song that all the St . 
Paul seals sing when they are heading back to their beaches in the summer . 
It is a sort of very sad seal National Anthem . 
Where roaring on the ledges the summer ground swell rolled I heard them lift the chorus that drowned the breakers' song The Beaches of Lukannon two million voices strong . 
They came and went in legions that darkened all the shore . 
And o'er the foam flecked offing as far as voice could reach We hailed the landing parties and we sang them up the beach . 
This is the story of the great war that Rikki tikki tavi fought single handed , through the bath rooms of the big bungalow in Segowlee cantonment . 
He was a mongoose , rather like a little cat in his fur and his tail , but quite like a weasel in his head and his habits . 
His eyes and the end of his restless nose were pink . 
He could scratch himself anywhere he pleased with any leg , front or back , that he chose to use . 
He found a little wisp of grass floating there , and clung to it till he lost his senses . 
No , said his mother , let's take him in and dry him . 
Perhaps he isn't really dead . 
They took him into the house , and a big man picked him up between his finger and thumb and said he was not dead but half choked . 
So they wrapped him in cotton wool , and warmed him over a little fire , and he opened his eyes and sneezed . 
, don't frighten him , and we'll see what he'll do . 
It is the hardest thing in the world to frighten a mongoose , because he is eaten up from nose to tail with curiosity . 
The motto of all the mongoose family is Run and find out , and Rikki tikki was a true mongoose . 
Don't be frightened , Teddy , said his father . 
That's his way of making friends . 
Ouch ! He's tickling under my chin , said Teddy . 
Rikki tikki looked down between the boy's collar and neck , snuffed at his ear , and climbed down to the floor , where he sat rubbing his nose . 
Good gracious , said Teddy's mother , and that's a wild creature ! I suppose he's so tame because we've been kind to him . 
All mongooses are like that , said her husband . 
If Teddy doesn't pick him up by the tail , or try to put him in a cage , he'll run in and out of the house all day long . 
Let's give him something to eat . 
They gave him a little piece of raw meat . 
There are more things to find out about in this house , he said to himself , than all my family could find out in all their lives . 
I shall certainly stay and find out . 
He spent all that day roaming over the house . 
At nightfall he ran into Teddy's nursery to watch how kerosene lamps were lighted , and when Teddy went to bed Rikki tikki climbed up too . 
But he was a restless companion , because he had to get up and attend to every noise all through the night , and find out what made it . 
Teddy's mother and father came in , the last thing , to look at their boy , and Rikki tikki was awake on the pillow . 
I don't like that , said Teddy's mother . 
He may bite the child . 
He'll do no such thing , said the father . 
Teddy's safer with that little beast than if he had a bloodhound to watch him . 
If a snake came into the nursery now But Teddy's mother wouldn't think of anything so awful . 
Early in the morning Rikki tikki came to early breakfast in the veranda riding on Teddy's shoulder , and they gave him banana and some boiled egg . 
had carefully told Rikki what to do if ever he came across white men . 
Then Rikki tikki went out into the garden to see what was to be seen . 
Rikki tikki licked his lips . 
It was Darzee , the Tailorbird , and his wife . 
They had made a beautiful nest by pulling two big leaves together and stitching them up the edges with fibers , and had filled the hollow with cotton and downy fluff . 
The nest swayed to and fro , as they sat on the rim and cried . 
What is the matter ? asked Rikki tikki . 
We are very miserable , said Darzee . 
One of our babies fell out of the nest yesterday and Nag ate him . 
H'm ! said Rikki tikki , that is very sad but I am a stranger here . 
Then inch by inch out of the grass rose up the head and spread hood of Nag , the big black cobra , and he was five feet long from tongue to tail . 
Who is Nag ? said he . 
The great God Brahm put his mark upon all our people , when the first cobra spread his hood to keep the sun off Brahm as he slept . 
Nag knew that too and , at the bottom of his cold heart , he was afraid . 
He knew that mongooses in the garden meant death sooner or later for him and his family , but he wanted to get Rikki tikki off his guard . 
So he dropped his head a little , and put it on one side . 
Let us talk , he said . 
Why should not I eat birds ? Behind you ! Look behind you ! sang Darzee . 
Rikki tikki knew better than to waste time in staring . 
He jumped up in the air as high as he could go , and just under him whizzed by the head of Nagaina , Nag's wicked wife . 
She had crept up behind him as he was talking , to make an end of him . 
He heard her savage hiss as the stroke missed . 
He bit , indeed , but did not bite long enough , and he jumped clear of the whisking tail , leaving Nagaina torn and angry . 
Wicked , wicked Darzee ! said Nag , lashing up as high as he could reach toward the nest in the thorn bush . 
But Darzee had built it out of reach of snakes , and it only swayed to and fro . 
, and he sat back on his tail and hind legs like a little kangaroo , and looked all round him , and chattered with rage . 
But Nag and Nagaina had disappeared into the grass . 
When a snake misses its stroke , it never says anything or gives any sign of what it means to do next . 
Rikki tikki did not care to follow them , for he did not feel sure that he could manage two snakes at once . 
So he trotted off to the gravel path near the house , and sat down to think . 
It was a serious matter for him . 
Rikki tikki knew he was a young mongoose , and it made him all the more pleased to think that he had managed to escape a blow from behind . 
It gave him confidence in himself , and when Teddy came running down the path , Rikki tikki was ready to be petted . 
But just as Teddy was stooping , something wriggled a little in the dust , and a tiny voice said Be careful . 
I am Death ! It was Karait , the dusty brown snakeling that lies for choice on the dusty earth and his bite is as dangerous as the cobra's . 
But he is so small that nobody thinks of him , and so he does the more harm to people . 
Rikki tikki's eyes grew red again , and he danced up to Karait with the peculiar rocking , swaying motion that he had inherited from his family . 
But Rikki did not know . 
His eyes were all red , and he rocked back and forth , looking for a good place to hold . 
Teddy shouted to the house Oh , look here ! Our mongoose is killing a snake . 
And Rikki tikki heard a scream from Teddy's mother . 
He went away for a dust bath under the castor oil bushes , while Teddy's father beat the dead Karait . 
What is the use of that ? thought Rikki tikki . 
Rikki tikki was rather amused at all the fuss , which , of course , he did not understand . 
Teddy's mother might just as well have petted Teddy for playing in the dust . 
Rikki was thoroughly enjoying himself . 
That night at dinner , walking to and fro among the wine glasses on the table , he might have stuffed himself three times over with nice things . 
Chuchundra is a broken hearted little beast . 
He whimpers and cheeps all the night , trying to make up his mind to run into the middle of the room . 
But he never gets there . 
Don't kill me , said Chuchundra , almost weeping . 
Rikki tikki , don't kill me ! Do you think a snake killer kills muskrats ? said Rikki tikki scornfully . 
Those who kill snakes get killed by snakes , said Chuchundra , more sorrowfully than ever . 
And how am I to be sure that Nag won't mistake me for you some dark night ? There's not the least danger , said Rikki tikki . 
But Nag is in the garden , and I know you don't go there . 
My cousin Chua , the rat , told me said Chuchundra , and then he stopped . 
Told you what ? H'sh ! Nag is everywhere , Rikki tikki . 
You should have talked to Chua in the garden . 
I didn't so you must tell me . 
Quick , Chuchundra , or I'll bite you ! Chuchundra sat down and cried till the tears rolled off his whiskers . 
I am a very poor man , he sobbed . 
I never had spirit enough to run out into the middle of the room . 
H'sh ! I mustn't tell you anything . 
Can't you hear , Rikki tikki ? Rikki tikki listened . 
That's Nag or Nagaina , he said to himself , and he is crawling into the bath room sluice . 
You're right , Chuchundra I should have talked to Chua . 
He stole off to Teddy's bath room , but there was nothing there , and then to Teddy's mother's bathroom . 
When the house is emptied of people , said Nagaina to her husband , he will have to go away , and then the garden will be our own again . 
Go in quietly , and remember that the big man who killed Karait is the first one to bite . 
Then come out and tell me , and we will hunt for Rikki tikki together . 
But are you sure that there is anything to be gained by killing the people ? said Nag . 
, our children will need room and quiet . 
I had not thought of that , said Nag . 
I will go , but there is no need that we should hunt for Rikki tikki afterward . 
I will kill the big man and his wife , and the child if I can , and come away quietly . 
Then the bungalow will be empty , and Rikki tikki will go . 
Rikki tikki tingled all over with rage and hatred at this , and then Nag's head came through the sluice , and his five feet of cold body followed it . 
Angry as he was , Rikki tikki was very frightened as he saw the size of the big cobra . 
Nag coiled himself up , raised his head , and looked into the bathroom in the dark , and Rikki could see his eyes glitter . 
Now , if I kill him here , Nagaina will know and if I fight him on the open floor , the odds are in his favor . 
What am I to do ? said Rikki tikki tavi . 
Nag waved to and fro , and then Rikki tikki heard him drinking from the biggest water jar that was used to fill the bath . 
That is good , said the snake . 
Now , when Karait was killed , the big man had a stick . 
He may have that stick still , but when he comes in to bathe in the morning he will not have a stick . 
I shall wait here till he comes . 
Nagaina do you hear me ? I shall wait here in the cool till daytime . 
There was no answer from outside , so Rikki tikki knew Nagaina had gone away . 
Nag coiled himself down , coil by coil , round the bulge at the bottom of the water jar , and Rikki tikki stayed still as death . 
After an hour he began to move , muscle by muscle , toward the jar . 
Nag was asleep , and Rikki tikki looked at his big back , wondering which would be the best place for a good hold . 
If I don't break his back at the first jump , said Rikki , he can still fight . 
It must be the head he said at last the head above the hood . 
And , when I am once there , I must not let go . 
This gave him just one second's purchase , and he made the most of it . 
He was dizzy , aching , and felt shaken to pieces when something went off like a thunderclap just behind him . 
A hot wind knocked him senseless and red fire singed his fur . 
The big man had been wakened by the noise , and had fired both barrels of a shotgun into Nag just behind the hood . 
Rikki tikki held on with his eyes shut , for now he was quite sure he was dead . 
But the head did not move , and the big man picked him up and said , It's the mongoose again , Alice . 
The little chap has saved our lives now . 
When morning came he was very stiff , but well pleased with his doings . 
Now I have Nagaina to settle with , and she will be worse than five Nags , and there's no knowing when the eggs she spoke of will hatch . 
Goodness ! I must go and see Darzee , he said . 
Without waiting for breakfast , Rikki tikki ran to the thornbush where Darzee was singing a song of triumph at the top of his voice . 
The news of Nag's death was all over the garden , for the sweeper had thrown the body on the rubbish heap . 
Oh , you stupid tuft of feathers ! said Rikki tikki angrily . 
Is this the time to sing ? Nag is dead is dead is dead ! sang Darzee . 
The valiant Rikki tikki caught him by the head and held fast . 
The big man brought the bang stick , and Nag fell in two pieces ! He will never eat my babies again . 
But where's Nagaina ? said Rikki tikki , looking carefully round him . 
Let us sing about the great , the red eyed Rikki tikki ! And Darzee filled his throat and sang . 
If I could get up to your nest , I'd roll your babies out ! said Rikki tikki . 
You don't know when to do the right thing at the right time . 
You're safe enough in your nest there , but it's war for me down here . 
Stop singing a minute , Darzee . 
For the great , the beautiful Rikki tikki's sake I will stop , said Darzee . 
What is it , O Killer of the terrible Nag ? Where is Nagaina , for the third time ? On the rubbish heap by the stables , mourning for Nag . 
Great is Rikki tikki with the white teeth . 
She hid them there weeks ago . 
Darzee , if you have a grain of sense you will fly off to the stables and pretend that your wing is broken , and let Nagaina chase you away to this bush . 
I must get to the melon bed , and if I went there now she'd see me . 
Darzee was a feather brained little fellow who could never hold more than one idea at a time in his head . 
And just because he knew that Nagaina's children were born in eggs like his own , he didn't think at first that it was fair to kill them . 
But his wife was a sensible bird , and she knew that cobra's eggs meant young cobras later on . 
So she flew off from the nest , and left Darzee to keep the babies warm , and continue his song about the death of Nag . 
Darzee was very like a man in some ways . 
Then she fluttered more desperately than ever . 
Nagaina lifted up her head and hissed , You warned Rikki tikki when I would have killed him . 
Indeed and truly , you've chosen a bad place to be lame in . 
And she moved toward Darzee's wife , slipping along over the dust . 
The boy broke it with a stone ! shrieked Darzee's wife . 
Well ! It may be some consolation to you when you're dead to know that I shall settle accounts with the boy . 
My husband lies on the rubbish heap this morning , but before night the boy in the house will lie very still . 
What is the use of running away ? I am sure to catch you . 
Little fool , look at me ! Darzee's wife knew better than to do that , for a bird who looks at a snake's eyes gets so frightened that she cannot move . 
Darzee's wife fluttered on , piping sorrowfully , and never leaving the ground , and Nagaina quickened her pace . 
Rikki tikki heard them going up the path from the stables , and he raced for the end of the melon patch near the wall . 
Teddy and his mother and father were there at early breakfast , but Rikki tikki saw that they were not eating anything . 
They sat stone still , and their faces were white . 
Nagaina was coiled up on the matting by Teddy's chair , within easy striking distance of Teddy's bare leg , and she was swaying to and fro , singing a song of triumph . 
Son of the big man that killed Nag , she hissed , stay still . 
I am not ready yet . 
Keep very still , all you three ! If you move I strike , and if you do not move I strike . 
Oh , foolish people , who killed my Nag ! Teddy's eyes were fixed on his father , and all his father could do was to whisper , Sit still , Teddy . 
Then Rikki tikki came up and cried , Turn round , Nagaina . 
Turn and fight ! All in good time , said she , without moving her eyes . 
I will settle my account with you presently . 
Look at your friends , Rikki tikki . 
They are still and white . 
They dare not move , and if you come a step nearer I strike . 
Look at your eggs , said Rikki tikki , in the melon bed near the wall . 
Go and look , Nagaina ! The big snake turned half around , and saw the egg on the veranda . 
Ah h ! Give it to me , she said . 
Rikki tikki put his paws one on each side of the egg , and his eyes were blood red . 
Nagaina spun clear round , forgetting everything for the sake of the one egg . 
Tricked ! Tricked ! Tricked ! Rikk tck tck ! chuckled Rikki tikki . 
The boy is safe , and it was I I I that caught Nag by the hood last night in the bathroom . 
Then he began to jump up and down , all four feet together , his head close to the floor . 
He threw me to and fro , but he could not shake me off . 
He was dead before the big man blew him in two . 
I did it ! Rikki tikki tck tck ! Come then , Nagaina . 
Come and fight with me . 
You shall not be a widow long . 
Nagaina saw that she had lost her chance of killing Teddy , and the egg lay between Rikki tikki's paws . 
Give me the egg , Rikki tikki . 
Give me the last of my eggs , and I will go away and never come back , she said , lowering her hood . 
Yes , you will go away , and you will never come back . 
For you will go to the rubbish heap with Nag . 
Nagaina gathered herself together and flung out at him . 
Rikki tikki jumped up and backward . 
Again and again and again she struck , and each time her head came with a whack on the matting of the veranda and she gathered herself together like a watch spring . 
He had forgotten the egg . 
When the cobra runs for her life , she goes like a whip lash flicked across a horse's neck . 
Rikki tikki knew that he must catch her , or all the trouble would begin again . 
She headed straight for the long grass by the thorn bush , and as he was running Rikki tikki heard Darzee still singing his foolish little song of triumph . 
But Darzee's wife was wiser . 
She flew off her nest as Nagaina came along , and flapped her wings about Nagaina's head . 
If Darzee had helped they might have turned her , but Nagaina only lowered her hood and went on . 
It was dark in the hole and Rikki tikki never knew when it might open out and give Nagaina room to turn and strike at him . 
He held on savagely , and stuck out his feet to act as brakes on the dark slope of the hot , moist earth . 
Then the grass by the mouth of the hole stopped waving , and Darzee said , It is all over with Rikki tikki ! We must sing his death song . 
Valiant Rikki tikki is dead ! For Nagaina will surely kill him underground . 
Darzee stopped with a little shout . 
Rikki tikki shook some of the dust out of his fur and sneezed . 
It is all over , he said . 
The widow will never come out again . 
And the red ants that live between the grass stems heard him , and began to troop down one after another to see if he had spoken the truth . 
Rikki tikki curled himself up in the grass and slept where he was slept and slept till it was late in the afternoon , for he had done a hard day's work . 
Now , he said , when he awoke , I will go back to the house . 
Tell the Coppersmith , Darzee , and he will tell the garden that Nagaina is dead . 
He saved our lives and Teddy's life , she said to her husband . 
Just think , he saved all our lives . 
Rikki tikki woke up with a jump , for the mongooses are light sleepers . 
Oh , it's you , said he . 
What are you bothering for ? All the cobras are dead . 
And if they weren't , I'm here . 
Rikki tikki had a right to be proud of himself . 
Sing to your fledglings again , Mother , oh lift up your head ! Evil that plagued us is slain , Death in the garden lies dead . 
Terror that hid in the roses is impotent flung on the dung hill and dead ! Who has delivered us , who ? Tell me his nest and his name . 
Toomai of the Elephants I will remember what I was , I am sick of rope and chain I will remember my old strength and all my forest affairs . 
I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar cane I will go out to my own kind , and the wood folk in their lairs . 
He had carried tents , twelve hundred pounds' weight of tents , on the march in Upper India . 
There he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was shirking his fair share of work . 
Elephants are very strictly preserved by the Indian Government . 
He has seen three generations of us feed him and groom him , and he will live to see four . 
He is afraid of me also , said Little Toomai , standing up to his full height of four feet , with only one rag upon him . 
Wah ! said Little Toomai , thou art a big elephant , and he wagged his fluffy head , quoting his father . 
The Government may pay for elephants , but they belong to us mahouts . 
Umph ! said Big Toomai . 
Thou art a boy , and as wild as a buffalo calf . 
This running up and down among the hills is not the best Government service . 
I am getting old , and I do not love wild elephants . 
Aha , the Cawnpore barracks were good . 
There was a bazaar close by , and only three hours' work a day . 
Little Toomai remembered the Cawnpore elephant lines and said nothing . 
Even a little boy could be of use there , and Toomai was as useful as three boys . 
He would get his torch and wave it , and yell with the best . 
He did more than wriggle . 
Kala Nag saw him , caught him in his trunk , and handed him up to Big Toomai , who slapped him then and there , and put him back on the post . 
He did not know much of white men , but Petersen Sahib was the greatest white man in the world to him . 
What what will happen ? said Little Toomai . 
Happen ! The worst that can happen . 
Petersen Sahib is a madman . 
It is well that this nonsense ends safely . 
Next week the catching is over , and we of the plains are sent back to our stations . 
Then we will march on smooth roads , and forget all this hunting . 
But , son , I am angry that thou shouldst meddle in the business that belongs to these dirty Assamese jungle folk . 
Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild hunter a follower of elephant's foot tracks , a jungle bear . 
Bah ! Shame ! Go ! Little Toomai went off without saying a word , but he told Kala Nag all his grievances while he was examining his feet . 
No matter , said Little Toomai , turning up the fringe of Kala Nag's huge right ear . 
As each man was paid he went back to his elephant , and joined the line that stood ready to start . 
'Tis a pity to send that young jungle cock to molt in the plains . 
Now Petersen Sahib had ears all over him , as a man must have who listens to the most silent of all living things the wild elephant . 
This is not a man , but a boy . 
Machua Appa pointed at Little Toomai , and Petersen Sahib looked , and Little Toomai bowed to the earth . 
He throw a rope ? He is smaller than a picket pin . 
Little one , what is thy name ? said Petersen Sahib . 
Most of them had taught their elephants that trick when they were boys . 
Little Toomai was hanging eight feet up in the air , and he wished very much that he were eight feet underground . 
He is Toomai , my son , Sahib , said Big Toomai , scowling . 
He is a very bad boy , and he will end in a jail , Sahib . 
Of that I have my doubts , said Petersen Sahib . 
A boy who can face a full Keddah at his age does not end in jails . 
See , little one , here are four annas to spend in sweetmeats because thou hast a little head under that great thatch of hair . 
In time thou mayest become a hunter too . 
Big Toomai scowled more than ever . 
Remember , though , that Keddahs are not good for children to play in , Petersen Sahib went on . 
Must I never go there , Sahib ? asked Little Toomai with a big gasp . 
When thou hast seen the elephants dance . 
That is the proper time . 
Come to me when thou hast seen the elephants dance , and then I will let thee go into all the Keddahs . 
There was another roar of laughter , for that is an old joke among elephant catchers , and it means just never . 
It was a very lively march on account of the new elephants , who gave trouble at every ford , and needed coaxing or beating every other minute . 
Big Toomai prodded Kala Nag spitefully , for he was very angry , but Little Toomai was too happy to speak . 
What did Petersen Sahib mean by the elephant dance ? he said , at last , softly to his mother . 
Big Toomai heard him and grunted . 
That thou shouldst never be one of these hill buffaloes of trackers . 
That was what he meant . 
Why should Petersen Sahib have chosen me to go down with you donkeys of the rice fields ? Lay your beast alongside , Toomai , and let him prod with his tusks . 
By all the Gods of the Hills , these new elephants are possessed , or else they can smell their companions in the jungle . 
It is only your carelessness in driving . 
Must I keep order along the whole line ? Hear him ! said the other driver . 
We have swept the hills ! Ho ! Ho ! You are very wise , you plains people . 
Anyone but a mud head who never saw the jungle would know that they know that the drives are ended for the season . 
Therefore all the wild elephants to night will but why should I waste wisdom on a river turtle ? What will they do ? Little Toomai called out . 
Art thou there ? Well , I will tell thee , for thou hast a cool head . 
They will dance , and it behooves thy father , who has swept all the hills of all the elephants , to double chain his pickets to night . 
What talk is this ? said Big Toomai . 
For forty years , father and son , we have tended elephants , and we have never heard such moonshine about dances . 
Yes but a plainsman who lives in a hut knows only the four walls of his hut . 
Well , leave thy elephants unshackled tonight and see what comes . 
As for their dancing , I have seen the place where Bapree bap ! How many windings has the Dihang River ? Here is another ford , and we must swim the calves . 
Stop still , you behind there . 
And in this way , talking and wrangling and splashing through the rivers , they made their first march to a sort of receiving camp for the new elephants . 
But they lost their tempers long before they got there . 
Little Toomai attended to Kala Nag's supper , and as evening fell , wandered through the camp , unspeakably happy , in search of a tom tom . 
When an Indian child's heart is full , he does not run about and make a noise in an irregular fashion . 
He sits down to a sort of revel all by himself . 
And Little Toomai had been spoken to by Petersen Sahib ! If he had not found what he wanted , I believe he would have been ill . 
There was no tune and no words , but the thumping made him happy . 
All things made he Shiva the Preserver . 
, and the fall of water ever so far away . 
Little Toomai slept for some time , and when he waked it was brilliant moonlight , and Kala Nag was still standing up with his ears cocked . 
He knew that he and his father and his grandfather had done the very same thing hundreds of times before . 
Kala Nag did not answer to the order by gurgling , as he usually did . 
He stood still , looking out across the moonlight , his head a little raised and his ears spread like fans , up to the great folds of the Garo hills . 
Tend to him if he grows restless in the night , said Big Toomai to Little Toomai , and he went into the hut and slept . 
There was one blast of furious trumpeting from the lines , and then the silence shut down on everything , and Kala Nag began to move . 
But between those times he moved absolutely without any sound , drifting through the thick Garo forest as though it had been smoke . 
He was going uphill , but though Little Toomai watched the stars in the rifts of the trees , he could not tell in what direction . 
Toomai leaned forward and looked , and he felt that the forest was awake below him awake and alive and crowded . 
The huge limbs moved as steadily as pistons , eight feet to each stride , and the wrinkled skin of the elbow points rustled . 
Then Little Toomai laid himself down close to the great neck lest a swinging bough should sweep him to the ground , and he wished that he were back in the lines again . 
The grass began to get squashy , and Kala Nag's feet sucked and squelched as he put them down , and the night mist at the bottom of the valley chilled Little Toomai . 
There was a splash and a trample , and the rush of running water , and Kala Nag strode through the bed of a river , feeling his way at each step . 
Ai ! he said , half aloud , his teeth chattering . 
The elephant folk are out tonight . 
It is the dance , then ! Kala Nag swashed out of the water , blew his trunk clear , and began another climb . 
But this time he was not alone , and he had not to make his path . 
That was made already , six feet wide , in front of him , where the bent jungle grass was trying to recover itself and stand up . 
Many elephants must have gone that way only a few minutes before . 
Little Toomai looked back , and behind him a great wild tusker with his little pig's eyes glowing like hot coals was just lifting himself out of the misty river . 
Then the trees closed up again , and they went on and up , with trumpetings and crashings , and the sound of breaking branches on every side of them . 
At last Kala Nag stood still between two tree trunks at the very top of the hill . 
Some trees grew in the center of the clearing , but their bark was rubbed away , and the white wood beneath showed all shiny and polished in the patches of moonlight . 
There were creepers hanging from the upper branches , and the bells of the flowers of the creepers , great waxy white things like convolvuluses , hung down fast asleep . 
But within the limits of the clearing there was not a single blade of green nothing but the trampled earth . 
The moonlight showed it all iron gray , except where some elephants stood upon it , and their shadows were inky black . 
Little Toomai could only count up to ten , and he counted again and again on his fingers till he lost count of the tens , and his head began to swim . 
They were standing head to head , or walking to and fro across the ground in couples , or rocking and swaying all by themselves scores and scores of elephants . 
And these elephants were not thinking of men that night . 
He , too , must have run away from some camp in the hills about . 
Still lying down , Little Toomai looked down upon scores and scores of broad backs , and wagging ears , and tossing trunks , and little rolling eyes . 
Then a cloud came over the moon , and he sat in black darkness . 
But the quiet , steady hustling and pushing and gurgling went on just the same . 
He knew that there were elephants all round Kala Nag , and that there was no chance of backing him out of the assembly so he set his teeth and shivered . 
In a Keddah at least there was torchlight and shouting , but here he was all alone in the dark , and once a trunk came up and touched him on the knee . 
Then an elephant trumpeted , and they all took it up for five or ten terrible seconds . 
The elephants were stamping all together now , and it sounded like a war drum beaten at the mouth of a cave . 
But it was all one gigantic jar that ran through him this stamp of hundreds of heavy feet on the raw earth . 
A tree was creaking and groaning somewhere near him . 
He put out his arm and felt the bark , but Kala Nag moved forward , still tramping , and he could not tell where he was in the clearing . 
There was no sound from the elephants , except once , when two or three little calves squeaked together . 
Then he heard a thump and a shuffle , and the booming went on . 
It must have lasted fully two hours , and Little Toomai ached in every nerve , but he knew by the smell of the night air that the dawn was coming . 
The morning broke in one sheet of pale yellow behind the green hills , and the booming stopped with the first ray , as though the light had been an order . 
Little Toomai stared again and again . 
The clearing , as he remembered it , had grown in the night . 
More trees stood in the middle of it , but the undergrowth and the jungle grass at the sides had been rolled back . 
Little Toomai stared once more . 
Now he understood the trampling . 
Wah ! said Little Toomai , and his eyes were very heavy . 
Kala Nag , my lord , let us keep by Pudmini and go to Petersen Sahib's camp , or I shall drop from thy neck . 
The third elephant watched the two go away , snorted , wheeled round , and took his own path . 
He may have belonged to some little native king's establishment , fifty or sixty or a hundred miles away . 
They made more room with their feet . 
Kala Nag took me , and I saw . 
Petersen Sahib had spent eighteen years in catching elephants , and he had only once before found such a dance place . 
Machua Appa had no need to look twice at the clearing to see what had been done there , or to scratch with his toe in the packed , rammed earth . 
The child speaks truth , said he . 
All this was done last night , and I have counted seventy tracks crossing the river . 
See , Sahib , where Pudmini's leg iron cut the bark of that tree ! Yes she was there too . 
They looked at one another and up and down , and they wondered . 
For the ways of elephants are beyond the wit of any man , black or white , to fathom . 
By all the Gods of the Hills , it is what can we say ? and he shook his head . 
When they got back to camp it was time for the evening meal . 
And there was a feast by the blazing campfires in front of the lines of picketed elephants , and Little Toomai was the hero of it all . 
What never man has seen he has seen through the long night , and the favor of the elephant folk and of the Gods of the Jungles is with him . 
He shall become a great tracker . 
All things made he Shiva the Preserver . 
So she tricked him , Shiva the Preserver . 
Mahadeo ! Mahadeo ! Turn and see . 
All things made he Shiva the Preserver . 
He was receiving a visit from the Amir of Afghanistan a wild king of a very wild country . 
My tent lay far away from the camel lines , and I thought it was safe . 
A camel had blundered into it , and wet and angry as I was , I could not help laughing . 
At last I fell over the tail end of a gun , and by that knew I was somewhere near the artillery lines where the cannon were stacked at night . 
Just as I was getting ready to go to sleep I heard a jingle of harness and a grunt , and a mule passed me shaking his wet ears . 
He belonged to a screw gun battery , for I could hear the rattle of the straps and rings and chains and things on his saddle pad . 
The screw guns are tiny little cannon made in two pieces , that are screwed together when the time comes to use them . 
They are taken up mountains , anywhere that a mule can find a road , and they are very useful for fighting in rocky country . 
Behind the mule there was a camel , with his big soft feet squelching and slipping in the mud , and his neck bobbing to and fro like a strayed hen's . 
Luckily , I knew enough of beast language not wild beast language , but camp beast language , of course from the natives to know what he was saying . 
Shall we run on ? Oh , it was you , said the mule , you and your friends , that have been disturbing the camp ? All right . 
You'll be beaten for this in the morning . 
But I may as well give you something on account now . 
I heard the harness jingle as the mule backed and caught the camel two kicks in the ribs that rang like a drum . 
Another time , he said , you'll know better than to run through a mule battery at night , shouting Thieves and fire ! Sit down , and keep your silly neck quiet . 
The camel doubled up camel fashion , like a two foot rule , and sat down whimpering . 
It's disgraceful , he said , blowing out his nostrils . 
Those camels have racketed through our lines again the third time this week . 
How's a horse to keep his condition if he isn't allowed to sleep . 
Who's here ? I'm the breech piece mule of number two gun of the First Screw Battery , said the mule , and the other's one of your friends . 
He's waked me up too . 
Who are you ? Number Fifteen , E troop , Ninth Lancers Dick Cunliffe's horse . 
Stand over a little , there . 
Oh , beg your pardon , said the mule . 
It's too dark to see much . 
Aren't these camels too sickening for anything ? I walked out of my lines to get a little peace and quiet here . 
My lords , said the camel humbly , we dreamed bad dreams in the night , and we were very much afraid . 
I am only a baggage camel of the th Native Infantry , and I am not as brave as you are , my lords . 
Then why didn't you stay and carry baggage for the th Native Infantry , instead of running all round the camp ? said the mule . 
They were such very bad dreams , said the camel . 
Listen ! What is that ? Shall we run on again ? Sit down , said the mule , or you'll snap your long stick legs between the guns . 
He cocked one ear and listened . 
On my word , you and your friends have waked the camp very thoroughly . 
It takes a good deal of prodding to put up a gun bullock . 
And almost stepping on the chain was another battery mule , calling wildly for Billy . 
That's one of our recruits , said the old mule to the troop horse . 
Here , youngster , stop squealing . 
The dark never hurt anybody yet . 
The gun bullocks lay down together and began chewing the cud , but the young mule huddled close to Billy . 
Fearful and horrible , Billy ! They came into our lines while we were asleep . 
D'you think they'll kill us ? I've a very great mind to give you a number one kicking , said Billy . 
The idea of a fourteen hand mule with your training disgracing the battery before this gentleman ! Gently , gently ! said the troop horse . 
Remember they are always like this to begin with . 
I ran for half a day , and if I'd seen a camel , I should have been running still . 
Nearly all our horses for the English cavalry are brought to India from Australia , and are broken in by the troopers themselves . 
True enough , said Billy . 
The first time they put the full harness with all its chains on my back I stood on my forelegs and kicked every bit of it off . 
I hadn't learned the real science of kicking then , but the battery said they had never seen anything like it . 
But this wasn't harness or anything that jingled , said the young mule . 
You know I don't mind that now , Billy . 
As soon as I heard the camels were loose I came away on my own account . 
When a battery a screw gun mule calls gun bullocks gentlemen , he must be very badly shaken up . 
Who are you fellows on the ground there ? The gun bullocks rolled their cuds , and answered both together The seventh yoke of the first gun of the Big Gun Battery . 
We were asleep when the camels came , but when we were trampled on we got up and walked away . 
It is better to lie quiet in the mud than to be disturbed on good bedding . 
We told your friend here that there was nothing to be afraid of , but he knew so much that he thought otherwise . 
Wah ! They went on chewing . 
That comes of being afraid , said Billy . 
You get laughed at by gun bullocks . 
I hope you like it , young un . 
The young mule's teeth snapped , and I heard him say something about not being afraid of any beefy old bullock in the world . 
But the bullocks only clicked their horns together and went on chewing . 
Now , don't be angry after you've been afraid . 
That's the worst kind of cowardice , said the troop horse . 
Anybody can be forgiven for being scared in the night , I think , if they see things they don't understand . 
That's all very well in camp , said Billy . 
I'm not above stampeding myself , for the fun of the thing , when I haven't been out for a day or two . 
But what do you do on active service ? Oh , that's quite another set of new shoes , said the troop horse . 
What's bridle wise ? said the young mule . 
Get round with your hind legs under you the instant you feel the rein on your neck . 
If you haven't room to swing round , rear up a little and come round on your hind legs . 
We aren't taught that way , said Billy the mule stiffly . 
We're taught to obey the man at our head step off when he says so , and step in when he says so . 
I suppose it comes to the same thing . 
Now , with all this fine fancy business and rearing , which must be very bad for your hocks , what do you do ? That depends , said the troop horse . 
I can see Dick's lance to the right of my right eye , and I know I'm safe . 
I shouldn't care to be the man or horse that stood up to Dick and me when we're in a hurry . 
Don't the knives hurt ? said the young mule . 
You must , said the troop horse . 
If you don't trust your man , you may as well run away at once . 
That's what some of our horses do , and I don't blame them . 
As I was saying , it wasn't Dick's fault . 
The man was lying on the ground , and I stretched myself not to tread on him , and he slashed up at me . 
Next time I have to go over a man lying down I shall step on him hard . 
Knives are dirty things at any time . 
Don't you ever trip ? said the troop horse . 
They say that when a mule trips you can split a hen's ear , said Billy . 
Now and again perhaps a badly packed saddle will upset a mule , but it's very seldom . 
I wish I could show you our business . 
Why , it took me three years to find out what the men were driving at . 
The science of the thing is never to show up against the sky line , because , if you do , you may get fired at . 
Remember that , young un . 
Always keep hidden as much as possible , even if you have to go a mile out of your way . 
I lead the battery when it comes to that sort of climbing . 
Fired at without the chance of running into the people who are firing ! said the troop horse , thinking hard . 
I should want to charge with Dick . 
Oh , no , you wouldn't . 
You know that as soon as the guns are in position they'll do all the charging . 
But knives pah ! The baggage camel had been bobbing his head to and fro for some time past , anxious to get a word in edgewise . 
Then I heard him say , as he cleared his throat , nervously I I I have fought a little , but not in that climbing way or that running way . 
No. Now you mention it , said Billy , you don't look as though you were made for climbing or running much . 
Well , how was it , old Hay bales ? The proper way , said the camel . 
We all sat down Oh , my crupper and breastplate ! said the troop horse under his breath . 
What sort of men ? Any men that came along ? said the troop horse . 
They teach us in riding school to lie down and let our masters fire across us , but Dick Cunliffe is the only man I'd trust to do that . 
It tickles my girths , and , besides , I can't see with my head on the ground . 
What does it matter who fires across you ? said the camel . 
There are plenty of men and plenty of other camels close by , and a great many clouds of smoke . 
I am not frightened then . 
I sit still and wait . 
And yet , said Billy , you dream bad dreams and upset the camp at night . 
There is only one way of fighting . 
Oh , go on , said Billy . 
I suppose you fellows fight standing on your tails ? Only one way , said the two together . 
To put all twenty yoke of us to the big gun as soon as Two Tails trumpets . 
What does Two Tails trumpet for ? said the young mule . 
To show that he is not going any nearer to the smoke on the other side . 
Two Tails is a great coward . 
Then we tug the big gun all together Heya Hullah ! Heeyah ! Hullah ! We do not climb like cats nor run like calves . 
Oh ! And you choose that time for grazing ? said the young mule . 
That time or any other . 
We eat till we are yoked up again and tug the gun back to where Two Tails is waiting for it . 
Sometimes there are big guns in the city that speak back , and some of us are killed , and then there is all the more grazing for those that are left . 
None the less , Two Tails is a great coward . 
That is the proper way to fight . 
We are brothers from Hapur . 
Our father was a sacred bull of Shiva . 
Well , I've certainly learned something tonight , said the troop horse . 
I never heard such stuff . 
A mountain ledge , a well balanced load , a driver you can trust to let you pick your own way , and I'm your mule . 
But the other things no ! said Billy , with a stamp of his foot . 
Never you mind my family on my father's side , said Billy angrily , for every mule hates to be reminded that his father was a donkey . 
My father was a Southern gentleman , and he could pull down and bite and kick into rags every horse he came across . 
Remember that , you big brown Brumby ! Brumby means wild horse without any breeding . 
Imagine the feelings of Sunol if a car horse called her a skate , and you can imagine how the Australian horse felt . 
I saw the white of his eye glitter in the dark . 
Are you ready ? On your hind legs ! squealed Billy . 
Both beasts dropped down with a snort of disgust , for neither horse nor mule can bear to listen to an elephant's voice . 
It's Two Tails ! said the troop horse . 
A tail at each end isn't fair ! My feelings exactly , said Billy , crowding into the troop horse for company . 
We're very alike in some things . 
I suppose we've inherited them from our mothers , said the troop horse . 
It's not worth quarreling about . 
Hi ! Two Tails , are you tied up ? Yes , said Two Tails , with a laugh all up his trunk . 
I'm picketed for the night . 
I've heard what you fellows have been saying . 
We don't , but we have to pull the guns , said the bullocks . 
I know it , and I know you are a good deal braver than you think you are . 
But it's different with me . 
My battery captain called me a Pachydermatous Anachronism the other day . 
That's another way of fighting , I suppose ? said Billy , who was recovering his spirits . 
You don't know what that means , of course , but I do . 
It means betwixt and between , and that is just where I am . 
I can see inside my head what will happen when a shell bursts , and you bullocks can't . 
I can , said the troop horse . 
At least a little bit . 
I try not to think about it . 
I can see more than you , and I do think about it . 
I know there's a great deal of me to take care of , and I know that nobody knows how to cure me when I'm sick . 
All they can do is to stop my driver's pay till I get well , and I can't trust my driver . 
Ah ! said the troop horse . 
You could put a whole regiment of Dicks on my back without making me feel any better . 
I know just enough to be uncomfortable , and not enough to go on in spite of it . 
We do not understand , said the bullocks . 
I'm not talking to you . 
You don't know what blood is . 
We do , said the bullocks . 
It is red stuff that soaks into the ground and smells . 
The troop horse gave a kick and a bound and a snort . 
Don't talk of it , he said . 
I can smell it now , just thinking of it . 
It makes me want to run when I haven't Dick on my back . 
But it is not here , said the camel and the bullocks . 
Why are you so stupid ? It's vile stuff , said Billy . 
I don't want to run , but I don't want to talk about it . 
There you are ! said Two Tails , waving his tail to explain . 
Yes , we have been here all night , said the bullocks . 
Two Tails stamped his foot till the iron ring on it jingled . 
Oh , I'm not talking to you . 
You can't see inside your heads . 
No. We see out of our four eyes , said the bullocks . 
We see straight in front of us . 
If I could do that and nothing else , you wouldn't be needed to pull the big guns at all . 
But if I were as wise as all that I should never be here . 
I should be a king in the forest , as I used to be , sleeping half the day and bathing when I liked . 
I haven't had a good bath for a month . 
That's all very fine , said Billy . 
But giving a thing a long name doesn't make it any better . 
H'sh ! said the troop horse . 
I think I understand what Two Tails means . 
You'll understand better in a minute , said Two Tails angrily . 
Now you just explain to me why you don't like this ! He began trumpeting furiously at the top of his trumpet . 
Stop that ! said Billy and the troop horse together , and I could hear them stamp and shiver . 
An elephant's trumpeting is always nasty , especially on a dark night . 
I shan't stop , said Two Tails . 
She knew as well as I did that if there is one thing in the world the elephant is more afraid of than another it is a little barking dog . 
So she stopped to bully Two Tails in his pickets , and yapped round his big feet . 
Two Tails shuffled and squeaked . 
Go away , little dog ! he said . 
Don't snuff at my ankles , or I'll kick at you . 
Good little dog nice little doggie , then ! Go home , you yelping little beast ! Oh , why doesn't someone take her away ? She'll bite me in a minute . 
Seems to me , said Billy to the troop horse , that our friend Two Tails is afraid of most things . 
Now , if I had a full meal for every dog I've kicked across the parade ground I should be as fat as Two Tails nearly . 
I whistled , and Vixen ran up to me , muddy all over , and licked my nose , and told me a long tale about hunting for me all through the camp . 
I never let her know that I understood beast talk , or she would have taken all sorts of liberties . 
So I buttoned her into the breast of my overcoat , and Two Tails shuffled and stamped and growled to himself . 
Extraordinary ! Most extraordinary ! he said . 
It runs in our family . 
Now , where has that nasty little beast gone to ? I heard him feeling about with his trunk . 
We all seem to be affected in various ways , he went on , blowing his nose . 
Now , you gentlemen were alarmed , I believe , when I trumpeted . 
Not alarmed , exactly , said the troop horse , but it made me feel as though I had hornets where my saddle ought to be . 
I'm frightened of a little dog , and the camel here is frightened by bad dreams in the night . 
It is very lucky for us that we haven't all got to fight in the same way , said the troop horse . 
What I want to know , said the young mule , who had been quiet for a long time what I want to know is , why we have to fight at all . 
Because we're told to , said the troop horse , with a snort of contempt . 
Orders , said Billy the mule , and his teeth snapped . 
, said the camel with a gurgle , and Two Tails and the bullocks repeated , Hukm hai ! Yes , but who gives the orders ? said the recruit mule . 
But who gives them the orders ? Now you want to know too much , young un , said Billy , and that is one way of getting kicked . 
All you have to do is to obey the man at your head and ask no questions . 
He's quite right , said Two Tails . 
I can't always obey , because I'm betwixt and between . 
Obey the man next to you who gives the order , or you'll stop all the battery , besides getting a thrashing . 
The gun bullocks got up to go . 
Morning is coming , they said . 
We will go back to our lines . 
It is true that we only see out of our eyes , and we are not very clever . 
But still , we are the only people to night who have not been afraid . 
Good night , you brave people . 
Nobody answered , and the troop horse said , to change the conversation , Where's that little dog ? A dog means a man somewhere about . 
Here I am , yapped Vixen , under the gun tail with my man . 
You big , blundering beast of a camel you , you upset our tent . 
Phew ! said the bullocks . 
He must be white ! Of course he is , said Vixen . 
Do you suppose I'm looked after by a black bullock driver ? Huah ! Ouach ! Ugh ! said the bullocks . 
Let us get away quickly . 
They plunged forward in the mud , and managed somehow to run their yoke on the pole of an ammunition wagon , where it jammed . 
Now you have done it , said Billy calmly . 
You're hung up till daylight . 
You'll break your necks in a minute , said the troop horse . 
What's the matter with white men ? I live with 'em . 
They eat us ! Pull ! said the near bullock . 
The yoke snapped with a twang , and they lumbered off together . 
I never knew before what made Indian cattle so scared of Englishmen . 
We eat beef a thing that no cattle driver touches and of course the cattle do not like it . 
May I be flogged with my own pad chains ! Who'd have thought of two big lumps like those losing their heads ? said Billy . 
I'm going to look at this man . 
Most of the white men , I know , have things in their pockets , said the troop horse . 
I'll leave you , then . 
I can't say I'm over fond of 'em myself . 
Besides , white men who haven't a place to sleep in are more than likely to be thieves , and I've a good deal of Government property on my back . 
Come along , young un , and we'll go back to our lines . 
Good night , Australia ! See you on parade to morrow , I suppose . 
Good night , old Hay bale ! try to control your feelings , won't you ? Good night , Two Tails ! If you pass us on the ground tomorrow , don't trumpet . 
I'm coming to the parade to morrow in my dog cart , she said . 
Where will you be ? On the left hand of the second squadron . 
I set the time for all my troop , little lady , he said politely . 
Now I must go back to Dick . 
My tail's all muddy , and he'll have two hours' hard work dressing me for parade . 
Then the cavalry came up , to the beautiful cavalry canter of Bonnie Dundee , and Vixen cocked her ear where she sat on the dog cart . 
Then the big guns came by , and I saw Two Tails and two other elephants harnessed in line to a forty pounder siege gun , while twenty yoke of oxen walked behind . 
The seventh pair had a new yoke , and they looked rather stiff and tired . 
Last came the screw guns , and Billy the mule carried himself as though he commanded all the troops , and his harness was oiled and polished till it winked . 
I gave a cheer all by myself for Billy the mule , but he never looked right or left . 
The rain began to fall again , and for a while it was too misty to see what the troops were doing . 
They had made a big half circle across the plain , and were spreading out into a line . 
That line grew and grew and grew till it was three quarters of a mile long from wing to wing one solid wall of men , horses , and guns . 
Unless you have been there you cannot imagine what a frightening effect this steady come down of troops has on the spectators , even when they know it is only a review . 
I looked at the Amir . 
Up till then he had not shown the shadow of a sign of astonishment or anything else . 
But now his eyes began to get bigger and bigger , and he picked up the reins on his horse's neck and looked behind him . 
For a minute it seemed as though he were going to draw his sword and slash his way out through the English men and women in the carriages at the back . 
Then the advance stopped dead , the ground stood still , the whole line saluted , and thirty bands began to play all together . 
Now , said he , in what manner was this wonderful thing done ? And the officer answered , An order was given , and they obeyed . 
But are the beasts as wise as the men ? said the chief . 
They obey , as the men do . 
Would it were so in Afghanistan ! said the chief , for there we obey only our own wills . 
And for that reason , said the native officer , twirling his mustache , your Amir whom you do not obey must come here and take orders from our Viceroy . 
