Written by a Citizen who continued all the while in London . 
It mattered not from whence it came but all agreed it was come into Holland again . 
But it seems that the Government had a true account of it , and several councils were held about ways to prevent its coming over but all was kept very private . 
This they did and finding evident tokens of the sickness upon both the bodies that were dead , they gave their opinions publicly that they died of the plague . 
The usual number of burials within the bills of mortality for a week was from about or thereabouts to . 
The last was esteemed a pretty high bill but after this we found the bills successively increasing as follows Buried . 
December the th to the th . 
This alarmed us all again , and terrible apprehensions were among the people , especially the weather being now changed and growing warm , and the summer being at hand . 
But the following week it returned again , and the distemper was spread into two or three other parishes , viz . 
This was the beginning of May , yet the weather was temperate , variable , and cool enough , and people had still some hopes . 
'Tis true St Giles's buried two and thirty , but still , as there was but one of the plague , people began to be easy . 
The whole bill also was very low , for the week before the bill was but , and the week above mentioned but . 
So that now all our extenuations abated , and it was no more to be concealed nay , it quickly appeared that the infection had spread itself beyond all hopes of abatement . 
The next bill was from the rd of May to the th , when the number of the plague was seventeen . 
Till this week the city continued free , there having never any died , except that one Frenchman whom I mentioned before , within the whole ninety seven parishes . 
Now there died four within the city , one in Wood Street , one in Fenchurch Street , and two in Crooked Lane . 
Southwark was entirely free , having not one yet died on that side of the water . 
, it filled me with very serious thoughts of the misery that was coming upon the city , and the unhappy condition of those that would be left in it . 
, had been to hazard the loss not only of my trade , but of my goods , and indeed of all I had in the world . 
, 'Master , save thyself . 
As to my argument of losing my trade , my goods , or debts , he quite confuted me . 
He told me the same thing which I argued for my staying , viz . 
, about these disappointments being from Heaven . 
I went home that evening greatly oppressed in my mind , irresolute , and not knowing what to do . 
This lay close to me , and my mind seemed more and more encouraged to stay than ever , and supported with a secret satisfaction that I should be kept . 
Surely He shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler , and from the noisome pestilence . 
He shall cover thee with His feathers , and under His wings shalt thou trust His truth shall be thy shield and buckler . 
A thousand shall fall at thy side , and ten thousand at thy right hand but it shall not come nigh thee . 
Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked . 
The apprehensions of its being the infection went also quite away with my illness , and I went about my business as usual . 
We perceived , I say , the distemper to draw our way , viz . 
Of the first , might well be reckoned to die of the plague and of the last , the bill itself said were of the plague . 
In August , indeed , they fled in such a manner that I began to think there would be really none but magistrates and servants left in the city . 
As they fled now out of the city , so I should observe that the Court removed early , viz . 
, and seen nobody to direct me except watchmen set at the doors of such houses as were shut up , of which I shall speak presently . 
The Inns of Court were all shut up nor were very many of the lawyers in the Temple , or Lincoln's Inn , or Gray's Inn , to be seen there . 
Everybody was at peace there was no occasion for lawyers besides , it being in the time of the vacation too , they were generally gone into the country . 
Whole rows of houses in some places were shut close up , the inhabitants all fled , and only a watchman or two left . 
All the old soldiers set up trades here , and abundance of families settled here . 
Again , the Court brought with them a great flux of pride , and new fashions . 
All people were grown gay and luxurious , and the joy of the Restoration had brought a vast many families to London . 
But I must go back again to the beginning of this surprising time . 
In the first place , a blazing star or comet appeared for several months before the plague , as there did the year after another , a little before the fire . 
I will not be positive whether he said yet forty days or yet a few days . 
Some heard voices warning them to be gone , for that there would be such a plague in London , so that the living would not be able to bury the dead . 
And no wonder , if they who were poring continually at the clouds saw shapes and figures , representations and appearances , which had nothing in them but air , and vapour . 
So hypochondriac fancies represent Ships , armies , battles in the firmament Till steady eyes the exhalations solve , And all to its first matter , cloud , resolve . 
One saw his very face , and cried out what a glorious creature he was ! One saw one thing , and one another . 
The woman endeavoured to show it me , but could not make me confess that I saw it , which , indeed , if I had I must have lied . 
So I left them and this appearance passed for as real as the blazing star itself . 
Another encounter I had in the open day also and this was in going through a narrow passage from Petty France into Bishopsgate Churchyard , by a row of alms houses . 
On a sudden he would cry , 'There it is now it comes this way . 
Neither can I acquit those ministers that in their sermons rather sank than lifted up the hearts of their hearers . 
It was , indeed , a time of very unhappy breaches among us in matters of religion . 
Innumerable sects and divisions and separate opinions prevailed among the people . 
And even those that were , the Government did not allow , but endeavoured to suppress them and shut up their meetings . 
One mischief always introduces another . 
And had the people not been kept in a fright about that , the wizards would presently have been rendered useless , and their craft had been at an end . 
And some had the assurance to tell them the plague was begun already , which was too true , though they that said so knew nothing of the matter . 
But it was impossible to make any impression upon the middling people and the working labouring poor . 
Their fears were predominant over all their passions , and they threw away their money in a most distracted manner upon those whimsies . 
But I must also not forget that the more serious part of the inhabitants behaved after another manner . 
Several private families also , as well of one opinion as of another , kept family fasts , to which they admitted their near relations only . 
Again , the public showed that they would bear their share in . 
these things the very Court , which was then gay and luxurious , put on a face of just concern for the public danger . 
Death was before their eyes , and everybody began to think of their graves , not of mirth and diversions . 
'Infallible preventive pills against the plague . 
'Neverfailing preservatives against the infection . 
'Sovereign cordials against the corruption of the air . 
'Exact regulations for the conduct of the body in case of an infection . 
'Incomparable drink against the plague , never found out before . 
'An universal remedy for the plague . 
'The only true plague water . 
'The royal antidote against all kinds of infection' and such a number more that I cannot reckon up and if I could , would fill a book of themselves to set them down . 
Others set up bills to summon people to their lodgings for directions and advice in the case of infection . 
'An ancient gentlewoman , having practised with great success in the late plague in this city , anno , gives her advice only to the female sex . 
To be spoken with , c . 
He directs the poor gratis . 
I take notice of these by way of specimen . 
I could give you two or three dozen of the like and yet have abundance left behind . 
I cannot omit a subtility of one of those quack operators , with which he gulled the poor people to crowd about him , but did nothing for them without money . 
He had , it seems , added to his bills , which he gave about the streets , this advertisement in capital letters , viz . 
, 'He gives advice to the poor for nothing . 
This made the people all resolve to have it but then the price of that was so much , I think 'twas half a crown . 
'But , sir , says one poor woman , 'I am a poor almswoman and am kept by the parish , and your bills say you give the poor your help for nothing . 
'Ay , good woman , says the doctor , 'so I do , as I published there . 
I give my advice to the poor for nothing , but not my physic . 
But to return to the people , whose confusions fitted them to be imposed upon by all sorts of pretenders and by every mountebank . 
I And I was told that some of them got five pounds a day by their physic . 
But my memorandums of these things relate rather to take notice only of the fact , and mention only that it was so . 
, yet there was a great deal of just alarm sounded into the very inmost soul , if I may so say , of others . 
Many consciences were awakened many hard hearts melted into tears many a penitent confession was made of crimes long concealed . 
It would wound the soul of any Christian to have heard the dying groans of many a despairing creature , and none durst come near to comfort them . 
Many a robbery , many a murder , was then confessed aloud , and nobody surviving to record the accounts of it . 
Some of the ministers did visit the sick at first and for a little while , but it was not to be done . 
It would have been present death to have gone into some houses . 
Time inured them to it all , and they ventured everywhere afterwards without hesitation , as I shall have occasion to mention at large hereafter . 
I am supposing now the plague to be begun , as I have said , and that the magistrates began to take the condition of the people into their serious consideration . 
But as it is public , and to be seen on all occasions , I need not give the reader of this the trouble of it . 
This was the case of several physicians , even some of them the most eminent , and of several of the most skilful surgeons . 
They endeavoured to do good , and to save the lives of others . 
But we were not to expect that the physicians could stop God's judgements , or prevent a distemper eminently armed from heaven from executing the errand it was sent about . 
Doubtless , the physicians assisted many by their skill , and by their prudence and applications , to the saving of their lives and restoring their health . 
It remains to mention now what public measures were taken by the magistrates for the general safety , and to prevent the spreading of the distemper , when it first broke out . 
But I am now upon the order and regulations they published for the government of infected families . 
About June the Lord Mayor of London and the Court of Aldermen , as I have said , began more particularly to concern themselves for the regulation of the city . 
ORDERS CONCEIVED AND PUBLISHED BY THE LORD MAYOR AND ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF LONDON CONCERNING THE INFECTION OF THE PLAGUE , . 
And the same statute did also authorise the giving of other directions , as unto them for the present necessity should seem good in their directions . 
that these officers following be appointed , and these orders hereafter duly observed . 
Examiners to be appointed in every Parish . 
And if any fit person so appointed shall refuse to undertake the same , the said parties so refusing to be committed to prison until they shall conform themselves accordingly . 
ORDERS CONCERNING INFECTED HOUSES AND PERSONS SICK OF THE PLAGUE . 
Notice to be given of the Sickness . 
This to be done by the appointment of an examiner . 
Shutting up of the House . 
'And that no corpse dying of infection shall be buried , or remain in any church in time of common prayer , sermon , or lecture . 
And that no children be suffered at time of burial of any corpse in any church , churchyard , or burying place to come near the corpse , coffin , or grave . 
And that all the graves shall be at least six feet deep . 
'And further , all public assemblies at other burials are to be foreborne during the continuance of this visitation . 
No infected Stuff to be uttered . 
No Person to be conveyed out of any infected House . 
Every visited House to be marked . 
Every visited House to be watched . 
be admitted to common use till their coaches be well aired , and have stood unemployed by the space of five or six days after such service . 
ORDERS FOR CLEANSING AND KEEPING OF THE STREETS SWEET . 
The Streets to be kept Clean . 
That Rakers take it from out the Houses . 
Laystalls to be made far off from the City . 
Care to be had of unwholesome Fish or Flesh , and of musty Corn . 
'That the brewers and tippling houses he looked unto for musty and unwholesome casks . 
ORDERS CONCERNING LOOSE PERSONS AND IDLE ASSEMBLIES . 
'That disorderly tippling in taverns , ale houses , coffee houses , and cellars be severely looked unto , as the common sin of this time and greatest occasion of dispersing the plague . 
'SIR JOHN LAWRENCE , Lord Mayor . 
SIR GEORGE WATERMAN SIR CHARLES DoE , Sheriffs . 
As I went along Houndsditch one morning about eight o'clock there was a great noise . 
But the outcry was loud enough to prompt my curiosity , and I called to one that looked out of a window , and asked what was the matter . 
A watchman , it seems , had been employed to keep his post at the door of a house which was infected , or said to be infected , and was shut up . 
This , it seems , was about one o'clock . 
Soon after , as the fellow said , he stopped the dead cart , and then knocked again , but nobody answered . 
The watchman knew not what to make of all this , so he let them alone till the morning man or day watchman , as they called him , came to relieve him . 
But though he called aloud , and putting in his long staff , knocked hard on the floor , yet nobody stirred or answered neither could he hear any noise in the house . 
But this being found out , the officers afterwards had orders to padlock up the doors on the outside , and place bolts on them as they thought fit . 
At another house , as I was informed , in the street next within Aldgate , a whole family was shut up and locked in because the maid servant was taken sick . 
The watchman consented to that , and went and fetched a nurse , as he was appointed , and brought her to them the same evening . 
For example , in Coleman Street there are abundance of alleys , as appears still . 
A house was shut up in that they call White's Alley and this house had a back window , not a door , into a court which had a passage into Bell Alley . 
Neither did it answer the end at all , serving more to make the people desperate , and drive them to such extremities as that they would break out at all adventures . 
What natural reason could be given for so wicked a thing at a time when they might conclude themselves just going to appear at the bar of Divine justice I know not . 
I am very well satisfied that it cannot be reconciled to religion and principle any more than it can be to generosity and Humanity , but I may speak of that again . 
Nor do I remember that any one of those families miscarried . 
But I come back to the case of families infected and shut up by the magistrates . 
They were only lodgers in the house where they were . 
But still the mother continued crying out , not knowing anything more of her child , several hours after she was dead . 
It is so long ago that I am not certain , but I think the mother never recovered , but died in two or three weeks after . 
But I return to the shutting up of houses . 
I say all this previous to the history , having yet , for the present , much more to say before I quit my own part . 
A terrible pit it was , and I could not resist my curiosity to go and see it . 
There was a strict order to prevent people coming to those pits , and that was only to prevent infection . 
I told him I had been pressed in my mind to go , and that perhaps it might be an instructing sight , that might not be without its uses . 
He said nothing as he walked about , but two or three times groaned very deeply and loud , and sighed as he would break his heart . 
I could not hear what he said , but he went backward two or three steps and fell down in a swoon . 
This was a mournful scene indeed , and affected me almost as much as the rest but the other was awful and full of terror . 
But as I cannot easily credit anything so vile among Christians , and at a time so filled with terrors as that was , I can only relate it and leave it undetermined . 
Innumerable stories also went about of the cruel behaviours and practices of nurses who tended the sick , and of their hastening on the fate of those they tended in their sickness . 
But I shall say more of this in its place . 
It was by this time one o'clock in the morning , and yet the poor gentleman was there . 
It is with regret that I take notice of this tavern . 
Upon this I gently reproved them , being well enough acquainted with their characters , and not unknown in person to two of them . 
I was indeed astonished at the impudence of the men , though not at all discomposed at their treatment of me . 
However , I kept my temper . 
, who , they saw , was overwhelmed with sorrow for the breaches which it had pleased God to make upon his family . 
During the shutting up of houses , as I have said , some violence was offered to the watchmen . 
As to soldiers , there were none to be found . 
This made the watchmen be the less regarded , and perhaps occasioned the greater violence to be used against them . 
So a servant was sent up with a candle with him to show him the room . 
So he sat down upon the bedside , and bade the maid , I think it was , fetch him up a pint of warm ale . 
The next morning , seeing no appearance of the gentleman , somebody in the house asked the servant that had showed him upstairs what was become of him . 
'Alas l' says she , 'I never thought more of him . 
He bade me carry him some warm ale , but I forgot . 
This was in the week from the th of July to the th . 
But of this I shall speak again . 
, so to take charge of the house in case the person should die . 
This was , in many cases , the saving a whole family , who , if they had been shut up with the sick person , would inevitably have perished . 
It was a great mistake that such a great city as this had but one pest house for had there been , instead of one pest house viz . 
I cannot say but that now I began to faint in my resolutions my heart failed me very much , and sorely I repented of my rashness . 
When I had been out , and met with such terrible things as these I have talked of , I say I repented my rashness in venturing to abide in town . 
I wished often that I had not taken upon me to stay , but had gone away with my brother and his family . 
What I wrote of my private meditations I reserve for private use , and desire it may not be made public on any account whatever . 
It is true people used all possible precaution . 
When any one bought a joint of meat in the market they would not take it off the butcher's hand , but took it off the hooks themselves . 
On the other hand , the butcher would not touch the money , but have it put into a pot full of vinegar , which he kept for that purpose . 
The buyer carried always small money to make up any odd sum , that they might take no change . 
Innumerable dismal stories we heard every day on this very account . 
But to return to the markets . 
It is impossible to describe the variety of postures in which the passions of the poor people would express themselves . 
There was nobody to be seen in the whole street , neither did any other window open . 
for people had no curiosity now in any case , nor could anybody help one another , so I went on to pass into Bell Alley . 
I care not to mention the name , though I knew his name too , but that would be an hardship to the family , which is now flourishing again . 
But this is but one it is scarce credible what dreadful cases happened in particular families every day . 
The pain of the swelling was in particular very violent , and to some intolerable the physicians and surgeons may be said to have tortured many poor creatures even to death . 
In these distresses , some , for want of help to hold them down in their beds , or to look to them , laid hands upon themselves as above . 
That there were a great many robberies and wicked practices committed even in this dreadful time I do not deny . 
But as for murders , I do not find that there was ever any proof of the facts in the manner as it has been reported , except as above . 
If you heard it in Whitechappel , it had happened at St Giles's , or at Westminster , or Holborn , or that end of the town . 
If you heard of it at that end of the town , then it was done in Whitechappel , or the Minories , or about Cripplegate parish . 
This the young man told me himself , and I have reason to believe it . 
This was while the plague was not come to a height . 
It was one morning about eleven O'clock , I had walked out to my brother's house in Coleman Street parish , as I often did , to see that all was safe . 
My brother's house had a little court before it , and a brick wall and a gate in it , and within that several warehouses where his goods of several sorts lay . 
But when I came nearer to the gate I met another woman with more hats come out of the gate . 
'What business , mistress , said I , 'have you had there ? 'There are more people there , said she 'I have had no more business there than they . 
I was hasty to get to the gate then , and said no more to her , by which means she got away . 
Be pleased to take them again and look yonder , there are more such customers as we . 
They were equally surprised , though on another account . 
They all told me they were neighbours , that they had heard anyone might take them , that they were nobody's goods , and the like . 
This brings these two men to a further remembrance . 
The name of one was John Hayward , who was at that time undersexton of the parish of St Stephen , Coleman Street . 
By undersexton was understood at that time gravedigger and bearer of the dead . 
He never used any preservative against the infection , other than holding garlic and rue in his mouth , and smoking tobacco . 
This I also had from his own mouth . 
Where am I ? 'Where are you ? says Hayward . 
'Why , you are in the dead cart , and we are going to bury you . 
I have already mentioned the surprise that this judgement was at first among the people . 
I must be allowed to give some of my observations on the more serious and religious part . 
They were , indeed , as if they had had no warning , no expectation , no apprehensions , and consequently the least provision imaginable was made for it in a public way . 
For example , the Lord Mayor and sheriffs had made no provision as magistrates for the regulations which were to be observed . 
They had gone into no measures for relief of the poor . 
The stock of the city's money I can say but little to . 
But this latter I only speak of as a report . 
There were , no question , accounts kept of their charity , and of the just distribution of it by the magistrates . 
The masters of those perhaps might live upon their substance , but the traders were universally at a stop , and consequently all their workmen discharged . 
Many of these were the miserable objects of despair which I have mentioned before , and were removed by the destruction which followed . 
Two things besides this contributed to prevent the mob doing any mischief . 
But as it appeared they had not , so the mob had no notion of finding stores of provisions there if they had broken in . 
, this gave opportunity to employ a very great number of poor men at a time . 
This account is verified by the following bills of mortality Of all of the Diseases . 
As this puts me upon mentioning my walking the streets and fields , I cannot omit taking notice what a desolate place the city was at that time . 
This was at that time when the plague was fully come into the eastern parishes . 
I say , in those places death reigned in every corner . 
was so great that necessity drove them to undertake anything and venture anything , they would never have found people to be employed . 
And then the bodies of the dead would have lain above ground , and have perished and rotted in a dreadful manner . 
Some went roaring and crying and wringing their hands along the street some would go praying and lifting up their hands to heaven , calling upon God for mercy . 
I suppose the world has heard of the famous Solomon Eagle , an enthusiast . 
What he said , or pretended , indeed I could not learn . 
But I could not hold it . 
Then it was indeed that I observed a profound silence in the streets . 
In the middle of the yard lay a small leather purse with two keys hanging at it , with money in it , but nobody would meddle with it . 
The train reached about two yards . 
The money , as I remember , was about thirteen shilling and some smooth groats and brass farthings . 
Here I saw a poor man walking on the bank , or sea wall , as they call it , by himself . 
I walked a while also about , seeing the houses all shut up . 
At last I fell into some talk , at a distance , with this poor man first I asked him how people did thereabouts . 
'Alas , sir ! says he , 'almost desolate all dead or sick . 
, 'where half of them are not dead already , and the rest sick . 
Then he pointing to one house , 'There they are all dead' , said he , 'and the house stands open nobody dares go into it . 
A poor thief' , says he , 'ventured in to steal something , but he paid dear for his theft , for he was carried to the churchyard too last night . 
Then he pointed to several other houses . 
'they are all dead , the man and his wife , and five children . 
There' , says he , 'they are shut up you see a watchman at the door' and so of other houses . 
And with that word I saw the tears run very plentifully down his face and so they did down mine too , I assure you . 
'Well , says I , 'honest man , that is a great mercy as things go now with the poor . 
, 'and do you see' , says he , 'eight or ten ships lie at the chain there , and at anchor yonder ? pointing above the town ) . 
'That is true , added he 'but you do not understand me right I do not buy provisions for them here . 
Poor woman ! says he , 'she is brought sadly down . 
I turned a little way from the man while these thoughts engaged me , for , indeed , I could no more refrain from tears than he . 
At length , after some further talk , the poor woman opened the door and called , 'Robert , Robert' . 
So he calls again , 'Rachel , Rachel , which it seems was her name , 'did you take up the money ? 'Yes , said she . 
'How much was it ? said he . 
'Four shillings and a groat , said she . 
'Well , well , says he , 'the Lord keep you all' and so he turned to go away . 
As I could not refrain contributing tears to this man's story , so neither could I refrain my charity for his assistance . 
God will never forsake a family that trust in Him as thou dost . 
So I gave him four other shillings , and bid him go lay them on the stone and call his wife . 
I have not words to express the poor man's thankfulness , neither could he express it himself but by tears running down his face . 
I then asked the poor man if the distemper had not reached to Greenwich . 
I asked him then how it came to pass that those people who had so shut themselves up in the ships had not laid in sufficient stores of all things necessary . 
I asked him if there was any more ships that had separated themselves as those had done . 
I asked him if the distemper had not reached them . 
He told me , if I would assure him on the word of a Christian and of an honest man that I had not the distemper , he would . 
And so the distemper was brought insensibly among them . 
And here I cannot but take notice that the strange temper of the people of London at that time contributed extremely to their own destruction . 
The plague began , as I have observed , at the other end of the town , namely , in Long Acre , Drury Lane , c . 
, and came on towards the city very gradually and slowly . 
Others argued it , because it was in its extreamest violence in Westminster and the parish of St Giles and St Andrew , c . 
, and began to abate again before it came among them which was true indeed , in part . 
But they paid for it afterwards , as I shall observe by and by . 
Indeed , the distress of the people at this seafaring end of the town was very deplorable , and deserved the greatest commiseration . 
This , I say , took away all compassion self preservation , indeed , appeared here to be the first law . 
For the children ran away from their parents as they languished in the utmost distress . 
It is not , indeed , to be wondered at for the danger of immediate death to ourselves took away all bowels of love , all concern for one another . 
Some were delivered and spoiled by the rashness and ignorance of those who pretended to lay them . 
Sometimes the mother has died of the plague , and the infant , it may be , half born , or born but not parted from the mother . 
Some died in the very pains of their travail , and not delivered at all and so many were the cases of this kind that it is hard to judge of them . 
under the articles of Child bed . 
Take the weeks in which the plague was most violent , and compare them with the weeks before the distemper began , even in the same year . 
From January to January to February February to March From August to August to September September . 
In a word , the usual number that used to die of these three articles , and , as I hear , did die of them the year before , was thus . 
Child bed Child bed Abortive and still born Abortive and still born This inequality , I say , is exceedingly augmented when the numbers of people are considered . 
For , indeed , it was a woe to them in particular . 
I was not conversant in many particular families where these things happened , but the outcries of the miserable were heard afar off . 
Let the reader calculate the proportion . 
There is no room to doubt but the misery of those that gave suck was in proportion as great . 
Our bills of mortality could give but little light in this , yet some it did . 
There were several more than usual starved at nurse , but this was nothing . 
Secondly , not starved , but poisoned by the nurse . 
I could tell here dismal stories of living infants being found sucking the breasts of their mothers , or nurses , after they have been dead of the plague . 
Whether the child infected the nurse mother or the mother the child was not certain , but the last most likely . 
The like of a tradesman in East Smithfield , whose wife was big with child of her first child , and fell in labour , having the plague upon her . 
He could neither get midwife to assist her or nurse to tend her , and two servants which he kept fled both from her . 
Nor was he ever once seen to lift up his eyes or to look upon any particular object . 
But there were innumerable cases of this kind which presented to the eye and the ear , even in passing along the streets , as I have hinted above . 
Nor is it easy to give any story of this or that family which there was not divers parallel stories to be met with of the same kind . 
It is incredible , if their account is to be depended upon , what a prodigious number of those creatures were destroyed . 
I think they talked of forty thousand dogs , and five times as many cats few houses being without a cat , some having several , sometimes five or six in a house . 
But I shall come to this part again . 
I come back to my three men . 
And thus they began to talk of it beforehand . 
Why , they are in the right , to be sure , if they resolve to venture staying in town . 
There's no trade stirs now . 
Why , what will you do then , brother ? And what shall I do ? for I am almost as bad as you . 
We were both distracted we did not go away at first then we might have travelled anywhere . 
There's no stirring now we shall be starved if we pretend to go out of town . 
They won't let us have victuals , no , not for our money , nor let us come into the towns , much less into their houses . 
And that which is almost as bad , I have but little money to help myself with neither . 
As to that , we might make shift , I have a little , though not much but I tell you there's no stirring on the road . 
I would have ventured their fire if I had been there . 
You talk your old soldier's language , as if you were in the Low Countries now , but this is a serious thing . 
The people have good reason to keep anybody off that they are not satisfied are sound , at such a time as this , and we must not plunder them . 
No , brother , you mistake the case , and mistake me too . 
But they do not deny you liberty to go back again from whence you came , and therefore they do not starve you . 
But the next town behind me will , by the same rule , deny me leave to go back , and so they do starve me between them . 
Besides , there is no law to prohibit my travelling wherever I will on the road . 
Why , brother , our condition at this rate is worse than anybody else's , for we can neither go away nor stay here . 
There is no lying in the street at such a time as this we had as good go into the dead cart at once . 
Therefore I say , if we stay here we are sure to die , and if we go away we can but die I am resolved to be gone . 
Whither will you go , and what can you do ? I would as willingly go away as you , if I knew whither . 
But we have no acquaintance , no friends . 
Here we were born , and here we must die . 
Look you , Tom , the whole kingdom is my native country as well as this town . 
I was born in England , and have a right to live in it if I can . 
But you know every vagrant person may by the laws of England be taken up , and passed back to their last legal settlement . 
But how shall they make me vagrant ? I desire only to travel on , upon my lawful occasions . 
What lawful occasions can we pretend to travel , or rather wander upon ? They will not be put off with words . 
Is not flying to save our lives a lawful occasion ? And do they not all know that the fact is true ? We cannot be said to dissemble . 
But suppose they let us pass , whither shall we go ? John . 
Anywhere , to save our lives it is time enough to consider that when we are got out of this town . 
If I am once out of this dreadful place , I care not where I go . 
We shall be driven to great extremities . 
I know not what to think of it . 
Well , Tom , consider of it a little . 
At last the seaman put in a hint that determined it . 
These two cautions were approved of , if it could be brought so to hit that the wind might not be in the south when they set out to go north . 
John the baker , who bad been a soldier , then put in his opinion . 
'First , says he , 'we none of us expect to get any lodging on the road , and it will be a little too hard to lie just in the open air . 
The soldier and the joiner disputed that point some time , but at last the soldier carried it for a tent . 
The joiner had a small bag of tools such as might be useful if he should get any work abroad , as well for their subsistence as his own . 
What money they had they brought all into one public stock , and thus they began their journey . 
So , I say , leaving Stepney they fetched a long compass , and going to Poplar and Bromley , came into the great road just at Bow . 
This , I say , was only a rumour , and it was very well it was no more . 
But to return to my travellers . 
, and travelled on till they came into the great north road on the top of Stamford Hill . 
This they did also because the wind blew that night very high , and they were but young at such a way of lodging , as well as at the managing their tent . 
So with the gun in his hand , he walked to and again before the barn , for that stood in the field near the road , but within the hedge . 
The other , being the lame sailmaker and most weary , lay still in the tent . 
'Here are some people before us the barn is taken up . 
They all stopped upon that , as under some surprise , and it seems there was about thirteen of them in all , and some women among them . 
We have escaped thus far by the goodness of God do not let us run into danger now , we beseech you . 
Do not be afraid of us we are only three poor men of us . 
If you are free from the distemper you shall not be hurt by us . 
And do you assure us that you are all sound men ? Richard . 
Well , but you are more than we are . 
I hope you will assure us that you are all of you sound too , for the danger is as great from you to us as from us to you . 
Blessed be God that some do escape , though it is but few what may be our portion still we know not , but hitherto we are preserved . 
What part of the town do you come from ? Was the plague come to the places where you lived ? Ford . 
What part do you come from ? Ford . 
We are most of us of Cripplegate parish , only two or three of Clerkenwell parish , but on the hither side . 
How then was it that you came away no sooner ? Ford . 
And what way are you going ? Ford . 
As our lot shall cast us we know not whither , but God will guide those that look up to Him . 
They parleyed no further at that time , but came all up to the barn , and with some difficulty got into it . 
And now they had thoughts of going over the river in the marshes , and make forwards to Epping Forest , where they hoped they should get leave to rest . 
From the river they travelled towards the forest , but when they came to Walthamstow the people of that town denied to admit them , as was the case everywhere . 
The constables and their watchmen kept them off at a distance and parleyed with them . 
that about Brentwood , or that way , several of them perished in the fields whether of the plague or of mere want and distress they could not tell . 
This was a good reason indeed why the people of Walthamstow should be very cautious , and why they should resolve not to entertain anybody that they were not well satisfied of . 
What the justice advised them to I know not , but towards the evening they called from the barrier , as above , to the sentinel at the tent . 
'What do you want ? says John . 
'Why , what do you intend to do ? says the constable . 
'To do , says John 'what would you have us to do ? Constable . 
Why don't you be gone ? What do you stay there for ? John . 
Why do you stop us on the king's highway , and pretend to refuse us leave to go on our way ? Constable . 
We are not bound to tell you our reason , though we did let you know it was because of the plague . 
We have a right to stop it up , and our own safety obliges us to it . 
Besides , this is not the king's highway 'tis a way upon sufferance . 
You see here is a gate , and if we do let people pass here , we make them pay toll . 
We have a right to seek our own safety as well as you , and you may see we are flying for our lives and 'tis very unchristian and unjust to stop us . 
You may go back from whence you came we do not hinder you from that . 
No it is a stronger enemy than you that keeps us from doing that , or else we should not have come hither . 
Well , you may go any other way , then . 
You see we have encamped here , and here we will live . 
We hope you will furnish us with victuals . 
We furnish you I What mean you by that ? John . 
Why , you would not have us starve , would you ? If you stop us here , you must keep us . 
You will be ill kept at our maintenance . 
If you stint us , we shall make ourselves the better allowance . 
Why , you will not pretend to quarter upon us by force , will you ? John . 
We have offered no violence to you yet . 
Since you threaten us , we shall take care to be strong enough for you . 
I have orders to raise the county upon you . 
It is you that threaten , not we . 
And since you are for mischief , you cannot blame us if we do not give you time for it we shall begin our march in a few minutes . 
What is it you demand of us ? John . 
We are not thieves , but poor people in distress , and flying from the dreadful plague in London , which devours thousands every week . 
We wonder how you could be so unmerciful ! Constable . 
What ! To shut up your compassion in a case of such distress as this ? Constable . 
Well , if you will pass over the fields on your left hand , and behind that part of the town , I will endeavour to have gates opened for you . 
They had but one horse among them . 
day without any provisions but such as we brought with us . 
I think you ought to send us some provisions for our relief . 
If you will go another way we will send you some provisions . 
That is the way to have all the towns in the county stop up the ways against us . 
If they all furnish you with food , what will you be the worse ? I see you have tents you want no lodging . 
Well , what quantity of provisions will you send us ? Constable . 
How many are you ? John . 
Nay , we do not ask enough for all our company we are in three companies . 
And will you assure us that your other people shall offer us no new disturbance ? John . 
No , no you may depend on it . 
You must oblige yourself , too , that none of your people shall come a step nearer than where the provisions we send you shall be set down . 
I answer for it we will not . 
This was John the soldier's management . 
they would have been sent to prison , or perhaps knocked on the head . 
As they saw now the consequence of their case , they soon saw the danger they were in so they resolved by the advice also of the old soldier to divide themselves again . 
John and his two comrades , with the horse , went away , as if towards Waltham the other in two companies , but all a little asunder , and went towards Epping . 
The first night they encamped all in the forest , and not far off of one another , but not setting up the tent , lest that should discover them . 
The provisions they had at Walthamstow served them very plentifully this night and as for the next , they left it to Providence . 
They had fared so well with the old soldier's conduct that they now willingly made him their leader , and the first of his conduct appeared to be very good . 
They all referred themselves to his direction , so they left their three houses standing , and the next day went away towards Epping . 
, and his two fellow travellers , laid aside their design of going to Waltham , and all went together . 
They had , besides this , a little tent where the women lay by themselves , and a hut to put the horse in . 
John took the horse to bring it home , and the sack which the carpenter carried his tools in , to put it in . 
The carpenter went to work and made them benches and stools to sit on , such as the wood he could get would afford , and a kind of table to dine on . 
'Why , look you , says John , 'as to being chargeable to you , we hope we shall not . 
The minister of a parish not far off , not knowing of the other , sent them also about two bushels of wheat and half a bushel of white peas . 
But this house , being well thatched , and the sides and roof made very thick , kept out the cold well enough . 
In short , they had meat enough , and sometimes had cheese and milk , and all such things . 
They were chiefly put to it for bread , for when the gentlemen sent them corn they had nowhere to bake it or to grind it . 
This made them eat the first two bushel of wheat that was sent them in parched corn , as the Israelites of old did , without grinding or making bread of it . 
among them , and so carried it about them whither they went . 
because they were not careful enough , after they were safely removed out of the towns , not to come in again and mingle with the diseased people . 
This his worship immediately granted , and gave them proper letters of health , and from thence they were at liberty to travel whither they pleased . 
With this certificate they removed , though with great reluctance and John inclining not to go far from home , they moved towards the marshes on the side of Waltham . 
Here they encamped for good and all , and resolved to remove no more . 
There the constable resisted them again , and would not let them be brought in . 
The poor distressed man upon this fetched the goods again , but with grievous cries and lamentations at the hardship of his case . 
But there was no remedy self preservation obliged the people to those severities which they would not otherwise have been concerned in . 
miles of the city but what was more or less infected and had some died among them . 
There have been great debates among our physicians as to the reason of this . 
But I choose to give this grave debate a quite different turn , and answer it or resolve it all by saying that I do not grant the fact . 
But of this I shall speak by itself . 
One thing , it is to be observed , was owing principally to the prudence of the magistrates , and ought to be mentioned to their honour viz . 
, the moderation which they used in the great and difficult work of shutting up of houses . 
They were heard into the very streets , and they were sometimes such that called for resentment , though oftener for compassion . 
Nor do I remember that anybody was ever punished , at least to any considerable degree , for whatever was done to the watchmen that guarded their houses . 
were generally removed , and others placed in their stead . 
A great variety of these cases frequently happened between the watchmen and the poor people shut up , besides those I formerly mentioned about escaping . 
Sometimes the watchmen were absent , sometimes drunk , sometimes asleep when the people wanted them , and such never failed to be punished severely , as indeed they deserved . 
Certain it is that if all the infected persons were effectually shut in , no sound person could have been infected by them , because they could not have come near them . 
namely , that the infection was propagated insensibly , and by such persons as were not visibly infected , who neither knew whom they infected or who they were infected by . 
However , the family were obliged to begin their quarantine anew on the report of the visitors or examiner , though their former quarantine wanted but a few days of being finished . 
And this was a thing which frequently happened , and was indeed one of the worst consequences of shutting houses up . 
We had a large parish , and had no less than eighteen examiners , as the order called us the people called us visitors . 
murdered by one of these creatures in Aldersgate Street , or that way . 
When she saw he would overtake her , she turned and gave him a thrust so forcibly , he being but weak , and pushed him down backward . 
They began to rise up , a little surprised , not knowing what the matter was but he bid them sit still , he only came to take his leave of them . 
They asked him , 'Why , Mr , where are you going ? 'Going , says he 'I have got the sickness , and shall die tomorrow night . 
'Tis easy to believe , though not to describe , the consternation they were all in . 
The poor distempered man all this while , being as well diseased in his brain as in his body , stood still like one amazed . 
And so he goes immediately downstairs . 
The man went and opened the door , and went out and flung the door after him . 
It was some while before the family recovered the fright , but as no ill consequence attended , they have had occasion since to speak of it with great satisfaction . 
As to the poor man , whether he lived or died I don't remember . 
On the other hand , the complaints and the murmurings were very bitter against the thing itself . 
severely punished for their neglect , failing in their duty , and letting people who were under their care slip away , or conniving at their going abroad , whether sick or well . 
But there was an absolute necessity for it , that must be confessed , unless some other measures had been timely entered upon , and it was too late for that . 
As to those which were set down in the weekly bill , they were indeed few nor could it be known of any of those whether they drowned themselves by accident or not . 
and had gone out of itself , not burning the rest of the house , though it was a slight timber house . 
How true this might be I do not determine , but the city being to suffer severely the next year by fire , this year it felt very little of that calamity . 
The magistrates would resent this , and charge the examiners with being remiss in their examination or inspection . 
But by that means houses were long infected before it was known . 
By this means he had free egress and regress into his house again . 
It is hardly credible to what excess the passions of men carried them in this extremity of the distemper , and this part , I think , was as moving as the rest . 
I cannot say what became of this poor man , but I think he continued roving about in that manner till he fell down and died . 
No wonder the aspect of the city itself was frightful . 
The usual concourse of people in the streets , and which used to be supplied from our end of the town , was abated . 
The Exchange was not kept shut , indeed , but it was no more frequented . 
The fires were lost they had been almost extinguished for some days by a very smart and hasty rain . 
But that was not all some of the physicians insisted that they were not only no benefit , but injurious to the health of people . 
This they made a loud clamour about , and complained to the Lord Mayor about it . 
I cannot give a full account of their arguments on both sides only this I remember , that they cavilled very much with one another . 
, between the hours of one and three in the morning . 
As to the suddenness of people's dying at this time , more than before , there were innumerable instances of it , and I could name several in my neighbourhood . 
One family without the Bars , and not far from me , were all seemingly well on the Monday , being ten in family . 
I am sure that ordinarily it was not so . 
As it brought the people into public company , so it was surprising how it brought them to crowd into the churches . 
I mention this but historically . 
I have no mind to enter into arguments to move either or both sides to a more charitable compliance one with another . 
In heaven , whither I hope we may come from all parties and persuasions , we shall find neither prejudice or scruple there we shall be of one principle and of one opinion . 
Several times they cried 'Murder' , sometimes 'Fire' but it was easy to perceive it was all distraction , and the complaints of distressed and distempered people . 
One thing I cannot omit here , and indeed I thought it was extraordinary , at least it seemed a remarkable hand of Divine justice viz . 
But now they were silent many of them went to their long home , not able to foretell their own fate or to calculate their own nativities . 
Some have been critical enough to say that every one of them died . 
I dare not affirm that but this I must own , that I never heard of one of them that ever appeared after the calamity was over . 
But to return to my particular observations during this dreadful part of the visitation . 
The particulars of the bills are as follows , viz . 
The confusion among the people , especially within the city , at that time , was inexpressible . 
Provisions were always to be had in full plenty , and the price not much raised neither , hardly worth speaking . 
and where no notice was given to the officers . 
The price of bread in particular was not much raised for in the beginning of the year , viz . 
any want of bakers or ovens kept open to supply the people with the bread but this was indeed alleged by some families , viz . 
In all this dreadful visitation there were , as I have said before , but two pest houses made use of , viz . 
, one in the fields beyond Old Street and one in Westminster neither was there any compulsion used in carrying people thither . 
By having more pest houses I am far from meaning a forcing all people into such places . 
This was well considered in those days , and I have heard them talk of it often . 
The magistrates had enough to do to bring people to submit to having their houses shut up , and many ways they deceived the watchmen and got out , as I have observed . 
In pursuance of these orders , the Lord Mayor , sheriffs , c . 
observed and all the bakers were obliged to keep their oven going constantly , on pain of losing the privileges of a freeman of the city of London . 
been observed , were so removed in the night , and everything was covered and closed before day . 
, in St Giles in the Fields , St Andrew's , Holborn , St Clement Danes , St Martin in the Fields , and in Westminster . 
The latter end of July it decreased in those parishes and coming east , it increased prodigiously in Cripplegate , St Sepulcher's , St James's , Clarkenwell , and St Bride's and Aldersgate . 
Even when the north and north west suburbs were fully infected , viz . 
, Cripplegate , Clarkenwell , Bishopsgate , and Shoreditch , yet still all the rest were tolerably well . 
Then , indeed , the city began to look dismal , shops to be shut , and the streets desolate . 
These observations of mine were abundantly confirmed by the weekly bills of mortality for those weeks , an abstract of which , as they respect the parishes which . 
I have mentioned and as they make the calculations I speak of very evident , take as follows . 
However , all this confirms what I have said above of the uncertainty of the bills of mortality , c . 
, of which I shall say more hereafter . 
Now it was impossible to know these people , nor did they sometimes , as I have said , know themselves to be infected . 
These were the dangerous people these were the people of whom the well people ought to have been afraid but then , on the other side , it was impossible to know them . 
And this is the reason why it is impossible in a visitation to prevent the spreading of the plague by the utmost human vigilance viz . 
, that it is impossible to know the infected people from the sound , or that the infected people should perfectly know themselves . 
How far it may be depended on I know not . 
I have seen them in strange agitations and surprises on this account . 
Again , the first goes on exclaiming , 'I have come near no infection or any infected person I am sure it is the air . 
We draw in death when we breathe , and therefore 'tis the hand of God there is no withstanding it . 
The acute penetrating nature of the disease itself was such , and the infection was received so imperceptibly , that the most exact caution could not secure us while in the place . 
The manner of its coming first to London proves this also , viz . 
These are known authorities for this great foundation point that it went on and proceeded from person to person and from house to house , and no otherwise . 
In the first house that was infected there died four persons . 
A minister , called to pray with the first sick person in the second house , was said to sicken immediately and die with several more in his house . 
Then the physicians began to consider , for they did not at first dream of a general contagion . 
in his talk of how secure he was , how cautious he had been , and how he had never come near any sick body . 
'That is true , says he 'I do not think myself secure , but I hope I have not been in company with any person that there has been any danger in . 
'No ? says his neighbour . 
I believe the most experienced physicians cannot answer this question directly any more than I can and something an ordinary observer may take notice of , which may pass their observations . 
The opinion of physicians abroad seems to be that it may lie dormant in the spirits or in the blood vessels a very considerable time . 
, that the best physic against the plague is to run away from it . 
But if it begins in a close built town or city and gets a head , there its fury increases it rages over the whole place , and consumes all it can reach . 
A family , whose story I have heard , was thus infected by the father and the distemper began to appear upon some of them even before he found it upon himself . 
Yet thus certainly it was , and often has been , and I could give many particular cases where it has been so . 
But this I very much question the truth of , and we had no microscopes at that time , as I remember , to make the experiment with . 
This was nine weeks asunder , and after this we had no more till a fortnight , and then it broke out in several streets and spread every way . 
, from the th of December to the th of February , and from thence to the nd of April . 
to to to to to Sept . 
Immediately she fancies the plague was in the pew , whispers her notion or suspicion to the next , then rises and goes out of the pew . 
But of this I shall speak again presently . 
I return in the meantime to the article of infecting one another at first , before people came to right notions of the infection , and of infecting one another . 
But it was impossible to beat anything into the heads of the poor . 
They went on with the usual impetuosity of their tempers , full of outcries and lamentations when taken , but madly careless of themselves , foolhardy and obstinate , while they were well . 
Or thus , 'Why , what must I do ? I can't starve . 
I had as good have the plague as perish for want . 
I have no work what could I do ? I must do this or beg . 
Suppose it was burying the dead , or attending the sick , or watching infected houses , which were all terrible hazards but their tale was generally the same . 
For it must be observed that where the plague was in its full force , there indeed the people were very miserable , and the consternation was inexpressible . 
But I shall come to speak of that part again . 
As to foreign trade , there needs little to be said . 
In Turkey and the islands of the Arches indeed , as they are called , as well those belonging to the Turks as to the Venetians , they were not so very rigid . 
You may be sure , also , that the report of these things lost nothing in the carriage . 
The plague was itself very terrible , and the distress of the people very great , as you may observe of what I have said . 
I do not take upon me to say that any harm was done , I mean of that kind , by those people . 
How it fared with the people in Scotland I had no opportunity to inquire . 
So that by the latter end of October there was a very great fleet of homeward bound ships to come up , such as the like had not been known for many years . 
But I return to the coals as a trade . 
furnished , to go down and take out the coals as low as Deptford and Greenwich , and some farther down . 
However , as some of the physicians cried them down , they were not kept alight above four or five days . 
I do not remember whether there was any at the city gates , but one at the Bridge foot there was , just by St Magnus Church . 
But that affected not the poor . 
But to come to matters of trade . 
All kinds of handicrafts in the city , c . 
It remains now that I should say something of the merciful part of this terrible judgement . 
The last week in September , the plague being come to its crisis , its fury began to assuage . 
His answer , however , was not so much to seek as I thought it would have been . 
the malignity of the disease abated . 
This I could not see rational . 
It was indeed surprising to see it , for though there died still from to a week , yet the people flocked to town as if all had been well . 
One John Cock , a barber in St Martin's le Grand , was an eminent example of this I mean of the hasty return of the people when the plague was abated . 
He had in his family ten persons that is to say , himself and wife , five children , two apprentices , and a maid servant . 
And wonderful it was to see how populous the city was again all on a sudden , so that a stranger could not miss the numbers that were lost . 
I wish I could say that as the city had a new face , so the manners of the people had a new appearance . 
All they could do was to warn and caution the people not to entertain in their houses or converse with any people who they knew came from such infected places . 
This ground , as I take it , was since made a physic garden , and after that has been built upon . 
A piece of ground just over the Black Ditch , as it was then called , at the end of Holloway Lane , in Shoreditch parish . 
It has been since made a yard for keeping hogs , and for other ordinary uses , but is quite out of use as a burying ground . 
This place I cannot mention without much regret . 
It was , as I remember , about two or three years after the plague was ceased that Sir Robert Clayton came to be possessed of the ground . 
But however he came by it , certain it is the ground was let out to build on , or built upon , by his order . 
N. B. The author of this journal lies buried in that very ground , being at his own desire , his sister having been buried there a few years before . 
And they had also two other burying places in Spittlefields , one where since a chapel or tabernacle has been built for ease to this great parish , and another in Petticoat Lane . 
I could name many more , but these coming within my particular knowledge , the circumstance , I thought , made it of use to record them . 
Who were to blame I know not . 
Great was the reproach thrown on those physicians who left their patients during the sickness , and now they came to town again nobody cared to employ them . 
It was said to be the remains of the old animosities , which had so lately involved us all in blood and disorder . 
But as the late Act of Indemnity had laid asleep the quarrel itself , so the Government had recommended family and personal peace upon all occasions to the whole nation . 
But , I say , it could not be obtained . 
The quarrel remained the Church and the Presbyterians were incompatible . 
But it was the Government , and we could say nothing to hinder it we could only say it was not our doing , and we could not answer for it . 
A plague is a formidable enemy , and is armed with terrors that every man is not sufficiently fortified to resist or prepared to stand the shock against . 
I only remember that there died sixteen clergymen , two aldermen , five physicians , thirteen surgeons , within the city and liberties before the beginning of September . 
But this being , as I said before , the great crisis and extremity of the infection , it can be no complete list . 
I say , from the end of the street towards Newgate there stood two long rows of shambles for the selling meat . 
But nobody can account for the possession of fear when it takes hold of the mind . 
And yet after all , though the poor came to town very precipitantly , as I have said , yet I must say the rich made no such haste . 
Certainly the circumstance of the deliverance , as well as the terrible enemy we were delivered from , called upon the whole nation for it . 
Nothing but the immediate finger of God , nothing but omnipotent power , could have done it . 
It might have been perceived in their countenances that a secret surprise and smile of joy sat on everybody's face . 
They shook one another by the hands in the streets , who would hardly go on the same side of the way with one another before . 
I could almost set down as many extravagant things done in the excess of their joy as of their grief but that would be to lessen the value of it . 
It was wonderful even the physicians themselves were surprised at it . 
But if ten lepers Were healed , and but one returned to give thanks , I desire to be as that one , and to be thankful for myself . 
But the impression was so strong at that time that it could not be resisted no , not by the worst of the people . 
It was a common thing to meet people in the street that were strangers , and that we knew nothing at all of , expressing their surprise . 
Another man I heard him adds to his words , Tis all wonderful 'tis all a dream . 
These were all strangers to one another . 
, that they sang His praise , but they soon forgot His works . 
I can go no farther here . 
