The can of tobacco was not remarkable . 
The pipe was not picturesque . 
The scissors were the most ordinary of scissors . 
The copy paper was quite undistinguished in appearance . 
The lead pencils had the most untemperamental looking points . 
Cleggett himself , as he filled and lighted the pipe , did it in the most matter of fact sort of way . 
Then he remarked to the head of the copy desk , in an average kind of voice H'lo , Jim . 
H'lo , Clegg , said Jim , without looking up . 
Might as well begin on this bunch of early copy , I guess . 
For more than ten years Cleggett had done the same thing at the same time in the same manner , six nights of the week . 
What he did on the seventh night no one ever thought to inquire . 
The superficial observer might have said that Cleggett and Brooklyn were made for each other . 
The superficial observer ! How many there are of him ! And how much he misses ! He misses , in fact , everything . 
At two o'clock in the morning a telegraph operator approached the copy desk and handed Cleggett a sheet of yellow paper , with the remark Cleggett personal wire . 
It was a night letter , and glancing at the signature Cleggett saw that it was from his brother who lived in Boston . 
It ran Uncle Tom died yesterday . 
He splits bulk fortune between you and me . 
Lawyers figure nearly , each . 
New will made month ago while sore at president temperance outfit . 
Blood thicker than Apollinaris after all . 
Despite Edward's thoughtful warning , Cleggett did nearly faint . 
Nothing could have been less expected . 
Uncle Tom was an irascible prohibitionist , and one of the most deliberately disobliging men on earth . 
Cleggett and his brother had long ceased to expect anything from him . 
For twenty years it had been thoroughly understood that Uncle Tom would leave his entire estate to a temperance society . 
Cleggett had ceased to think of Uncle Tom as a possible factor in his life . 
But death had stepped in just in time to disinherit the enemies of the Demon Rum . 
Cleggett read the wire through twice , and then folded it and put it into his pocket . 
He rose and walked toward the managing editor's room . 
He was quiet , but he was almost jaunty , too he felt a little drunk , and enjoyed the feeling . 
He opened the managing editor's door with more assurance than he had ever displayed before . 
Well ? he said , shortly . 
He was a man for whom Cleggett had long felt a secret antipathy . 
The man was , in short , the petty tyrant of Cleggett's little world . 
Can you spare me a couple of minutes , Mr. Wharton ? said Cleggett . 
But he did not say it with the air of a person who really sues for a hearing . 
Yes , yes go on . 
Mr. Wharton , who had risen from his chair , sat down again . 
He was usually ungracious with Cleggett . 
His face set itself in the expression it always took when he declined to consider raising a man's salary . 
Cleggett , who had been refused a raise regularly every three months for the past two years , was familiar with the look . 
Go on , go on what is it ? asked Mr. Wharton unpleasantly , frowning and stroking the frosty mustache , first one side and then the other . 
I just stepped in to tell you , said Cleggett quietly , that I don't think much of the way you are running the Enterprise . 
Wharton stopped stroking his mustache so quickly and so amazedly that one might have thought he had run into a thorn amongst the hirsute growth and pricked a finger . 
But before he could speak Cleggett went on Three years ago I made a number of suggestions to you . 
You treated me contemptuously very contemptuously ! Cleggett paused and drew a long breath , and his face became quite red . 
It was as if the anger in which he could not afford to indulge himself three years before was now working in him with cumulative effect . 
I had intended to conclude my remarks by telling you that my contempt for YOU , personally , is unbounded . 
It is boundless , sir ! But since you have sworn at me , I am forced to conclude this interview in another fashion . 
And with a gesture which was not devoid of dignity Cleggett drew from an upper waistcoat pocket a card and flung it on Wharton's desk . 
After which he stepped back and made a formal bow . 
Wharton looked at the card . 
Bewilderment almost chased the anger from his face . 
If you were a gentleman , he said , you would have no difficulty in understanding these things . 
I have just done you the honor of challenging you to a duel . 
Mr. Wharton's mouth opened as if he were about to explode in a roar of incredulous laughter . 
But meeting Cleggett's eyes , which were , indeed , sparkling with a most remarkable light , his jaw dropped , and he turned slightly pale . 
He rose from his chair and put the desk between himself and Cleggett , picking up as he did so a long pair of shears . 
Put down the scissors , said Cleggett , with a wave of his hand . 
I do not propose to attack you now . 
And he turned and left the managing editor's little office , closing the door behind him . 
The managing editor tiptoed over to the door and , with the scissors still grasped in one hand , opened it about a quarter of an inch . 
Through this crack Wharton saw Cleggett walk jauntily towards the corner where his hat and coat were hanging . 
Cleggett took off his worn office jacket , rolled it into a ball , and flung it into a waste paper basket . 
He put on his street coat and hat and picked up the drab colored cane . 
Swinging the stick he moved towards the door into the hall . 
At the cluck the managing editor drew back hastily , as if Cleggett had actually presented a firearm Cleggett's manner was so rapt and fatal that it carried conviction . 
Then Cleggett laughed , cocked his hat on the other side of his head and went out into the corridor whistling . 
Whistling , and , since faults as well as virtues must be told , swaggering just a little . 
He is off off mentally . 
More'n likely he's been a quiet , steady drinker for years , and now it's begun to show on him . 
But nothing was further from Cleggett than the wish ever to go into the Enterprise office again . 
From his windows he could gaze out upon the bustling harbor craft and see the ships going forth to the great mysterious sea . 
He walked home across the Brooklyn Bridge , and as he walked he still hummed tunes . 
The fifth of these lunges had an unexpected result . 
Cleggett directed it toward the door of an unpainted toolhouse , a temporary structure near one of the immense stone pillars from which the bridge is swung . 
The officer grunted and stepped backward then he came on , raising his night stick . 
Why , it's it's McCarthy ! exclaimed Cleggett , who had also sprung back , as the light fell on the other's face . 
Mr. Cleggett , by the powers ! said the officer , pausing and lowering his lifted club . 
Are ye soused , man ? Or is it your way of sayin' good avenin' to your frinds ? Cleggett smiled . 
He had first known McCarthy years before when he was a reporter , and more recently had renewed the acquaintance in his walks across the bridge . 
I didn't know you were there , McCarthy , he said . 
No ? said the officer . 
And who were ye jabbin' at , thin ? I was just limbering up my wrist , said Cleggett . 
'Tis a quare thing to do , persisted McCarthy , albeit good humoredly . 
And now I mind I've seen ye do the same before , Mr. Cleggett . 
You're foriver grinnin' to yersilf an' makin' thim funny jabs at nothin' as ye cross the bridge . 
Are ye subjict to stiffness in the wrists , Mr. Cleggett ? Perhaps it's writer's cramp , said Cleggett , indulging the pleasant humor that was on him . 
He was really thinking that , with , of his own , he had written his last headline , edited his last piece of copy , sharpened his last pencil . 
Writer's cramp ? Is it so ? mused McCarthy . 
Newspapers is great things , ain't they now ? And so's writin' and readin' . 
Gr r reat things ! But if ye'll take my advise , Mr. Cleggett , ye'll kape that writin' and readin' within bounds . 
Too much av thim rots the brains . 
I'll remember that , said Cleggett . 
And he playfully jabbed the officer again as he turned away . 
G'wan wid ye ! protested McCarthy . 
Ye're soused ! The scent av it's in the air . 
If I'm compilled to run yez in f'r assaultin' an officer ye'll get the cramps out av thim wrists breakin' stone , maybe . 
It was a thrust en carte the thrust of a brilliant swordsman the thrust of a master a terrible thrust . 
It was meant for as pernicious a bravo as ever infested the pages of romantic fiction . 
Cleggett had been slaying these gentry a dozen times a day for years . 
He had pinked four of them on the way across the bridge , before McCarthy , with his stomach and his realism , stopped the lunge intended for the fifth . 
But this is not exactly the sort of thing one finds it easy to confide to a policeman , be he ever so friendly a policeman . 
He ate it , he drank it , he breathed it , he dreamed it . 
The usual copyreader , when he closes his eyes and smiles upon a pleasant inward vision , is thinking of starting a chicken farm in New Jersey . 
But Cleggett with gray sprinkled in his hair , sober of face and precise of manner , as the world knew him lived a hidden life which was one long , wild adventure . 
Nobody had ever suspected it . 
But of all the weapons it was the rapiers , of all the books it was Dumas , that he loved . 
There was Dumas in French , Dumas in English , Dumas with pictures , Dumas unillustrated , Dumas in cloth , Dumas in leather , Dumas in boards , Dumas in paper covers . 
Cleggett had been twenty years getting these arms and books together often he had gone without a dinner in order to make a payment on some blade he fancied . 
And each weapon was also a book to him he sensed their stories as he handled them he felt the personalities of their former owners stirring in him when he picked them up . 
It was in that room that he dreamed which is to say , it was in that room that he lived his real life . 
Cleggett walked over to his writing desk and pulled out a bulky manuscript . 
It was his own work . 
Is it necessary to hint that it was a tale essentially romantic in character ? He flung it into the grate and set fire to it . 
He picked up a sword . 
It was one of his favorite rapiers . 
Sometimes people came out of the books sometimes shadowy forms came back to claim the weapons that had been theirs and Cleggett fought them . 
There was not an unscarred piece of furniture in the place . 
He bent the flexible blade in his hands , tried the point of it , formally saluted , brought the weapon to parade , dallied with his imaginary opponent's sword for an instant . 
It seemed as if one of those terrible , but brilliant , duels , with which that room was so familiar , was about to be enacted . 
But he laid the rapier down . 
After all , the rapier is scarcely a thing of this century . 
Cleggett , for the first time , felt a little impatient with the rapier . 
It is all very well to DREAM with a rapier . 
But now , he was free reality was before him the world of actual adventure called . 
He had but to choose ! He considered . 
He tried to look into that bright , adventurous future . 
Presently he went to the window , and gazed out . 
But it was not the city which called to Cleggett . 
A breeze blew in from the bay and stirred his window curtains it was salt in his nostrils . 
And , staring out into the breathing night , he saw a succession of pictures . 
This adventurer was Clement J. Cleggett ! . 
Again , this adventurer was Clement J. Cleggett ! Cleggett turned from the window . 
I'll do it , he cried . 
I'll do it ! He grasped a cutlass . 
Pirates ! he cried , swinging it about his head . 
The vessel lay in one of the canals which reach inward from the Great South Bay . 
She looked as if she might have been there for some time . 
Evidently , at one period , the Jasper B. had played a part in some catch coin scheme of summer entertainment a scheme that had failed . 
Little trace of it remained except a rotting wooden platform , roofless and built close to the canal , and a gangway arrangement from this platform to the deck of the vessel . 
The Jasper B. had seen better days even a landsman could tell that . 
And , to complete the picture , there sat on her deck a gnarled and brown old man . 
Cleggett's nimble fancy at once put rings into his ears and dowered him with a history . 
Cleggett noticed , as he walked aboard the vessel , that she seemed to be jammed not merely against , but into the bank of the canal . 
She was nearer the shore than he had ever seen a vessel of any sort . 
Some weeds grew in soil that had lodged upon the deck in a couple of places they sprang as high as the rail . 
Weeds grew on shore in fact , it would have taken a better nautical authority than Cleggett to tell offhand just exactly where the land ended and the Jasper B. began . 
She seemed to be possessed of an odd stability although the tide was receding the Jasper B. was not perceptibly agitated by the motion of the water . 
Of anchor , or mooring chains or cables of any sort , there was no sign . 
It occurred to Cleggett that the old man might own the vessel and make a home of her . 
Then he took a cake of dark , hard looking tobacco from the starboard pocket of his trousers and a clasp knife from the port side . 
He shaved off a fresh pipeful , rolled it in his palms , knocked the old ash from his pipe , refilled and relighted it , all with the utmost deliberation . 
Then he cut another small piece of tobacco from the plug and popped it into his mouth . 
Cleggett perceived with surprise that he smoked and chewed tobacco at the same time . 
As he thus refreshed himself he glanced from time to time at Cleggett as if unfavorably impressed . 
He regarded Cleggett contemptuously , spat on the deck , and then demanded truculently D'ye want to buy any seed potatoes ? Why er , no , said Cleggett . 
But after a further embarrassing silence he relented enough to give Cleggett another chance . 
You want some seed corn ! he announced rather than asked . 
No. I Tomato plants ! shrilled the brown one , as if daring him to deny it . 
No. He turned his back on Cleggett , as if he had lost interest , and began to wind up his fishing line on a squeaky reel . 
Who owns this boat ? Cleggett touched him on the elbow . 
Thinkin' of buyin' her ? Perhaps . 
Who owns her ? What would you do with her ? I might fix her up and sail her . 
Who owns her ? She'll take a sight o' fixin' . 
Who did you say owned her ? The old man , who had finished with the rusty reel , deigned to look at Cleggett again . 
But who DOES own her ? She's stuck fast in the mud and her rudder's gone . 
I see you know a lot about ships , said Cleggett , deferentially , giving up the attempt to find out who owned her . 
I picked you out for an old sailor the minute I saw you . 
He thought he detected a kindlier gleam in the old man's eye as that person listened to these words . 
The' ain't a stick in her , said the ancient fisherman . 
She's got no wheel and she's got no nothin' . 
She used to be used as a kind of a barroom and dancin' platform till the fellow that used her for such went out o' business . 
He paused , and then added What might your name be ? Cleggett . 
He appeared to reflect on the name . 
But he said If you was to ask me , I'd say her timbers is sound . 
Something like a grin of gratified vanity began to show on the brown one's features . 
He leaned back against the rail and looked at Cleggett with the dawn of approval in his eyes . 
My name's Abernethy , he suddenly volunteered . 
The fellow that owns her is Goldberg . 
Cleggett began to get an insight into Mr. Abernethy's peculiar ideas concerning conversation . 
A native spirit of independence prevented Mr. Abernethy from dealing with an interlocutor's remarks in the sequence that seemed to be desired by the interlocutor . 
He took a selection of utterances into his mind , rolled them over together , and replied in accordance with some esoteric system of his own . 
Where is Mr. Goldberg's office ? asked Cleggett . 
You've come to the proper party to get set right about ships , said Mr. Abernethy , complacently . 
At the gangplank he sang out without turning his head As far as my bein' a skipper's concerned , they's no law agin' callin' me Cap'n Abernethy if you want to . 
I come of a seafarin' fambly . 
But if you was to ask me again I might say she COULD be schooner rigged . 
Lots of boats IS schooner rigged . 
There are affinities between atom and atom , between man and woman , between man and man . 
There are also affinities between men and things if you choose to call a ship , which has a spirit of its own , merely a thing . 
There must have been this affinity between Cleggett and the Jasper B. Only an unusual person would have thought of buying her . 
But Cleggett loved her at first sight . 
Within an hour after he had first seen her he was in Mr. Abraham Goldberg's office . 
As he was concluding his purchase Mr. Goldberg having phoned Cleggett's bankers he was surprised to discover that he was buying about half an acre of Long Island real estate along with her . 
For that matter he had thought it a little odd in the first place when he had been directed to a real estate agent as the owner of the craft . 
I had only intended to buy the vessel , said Cleggett . 
I don't know that I'll be able to use the land . 
Mr. Goldberg looked at Cleggett with a slight start , as if he were not sure that he had heard aright , and opened his mouth as if to say something . 
But nothing came of it not just then , at least . 
I'm surprised to find that the land goes with the ship . 
Why , it doesn't , said Mr. Goldberg . 
It's the ship that goes with the land . 
She was on the land when I bought the plot , and I just left her there . 
Nobody's paid any attention to her for years . 
The words on the land grated on Cleggett . 
You mean on the water , don't you ? In the mud , then , suggested Mr. Goldberg . 
But she'll sail all right , said Cleggett . 
I suppose if she was decorated up with sails and things she'd sail . 
You could turn her into a house boat easy enough . 
I had a friend who turned an old barge like that into a house boat and had a lot of fun with her . 
Barge ? Cleggett rose and buttoned his coat the conversation was somehow growing more and more distasteful to him . 
You wouldn't call the Jasper B. a BARGE , would you ? Well , you wouldn't call her a YACHT , would you ? said Mr. Goldberg . 
Perhaps not , admitted Cleggett , perhaps not . 
She's more like a bark than a yacht . 
A bark ? I dunno . 
Always thought a bark was bigger . 
A scow's more her size , ain't it ? Scow ? Cleggett frowned . 
The Jasper B. a scow ! You mean a schooner , don't you ? Schooner ? Mr. Goldberg grinned good naturedly at his departing customer . 
A kind of a schooner scow , huh ? No , sir , a schooner ! said Cleggett , reddening , and turning in the doorway . 
The vessel lay about two miles from the center of Fairport . 
He could get within half a mile of it by trolley . 
Nevertheless , when he reached the Jasper B. again after leaving Mr. Goldberg it was getting along towards dusk . 
He first entered the cabin . 
It was of a good size and divided into several compartments . 
But it was in a state of dilapidation and littered with a jumble of odds and ends which looked like the ruins of a barroom . 
As he turned to ascend to the deck again , after possibly five minutes , intending to take a look at the forecastle next , he heard the sound of a motor . 
Looking out of the cabin he saw a taxicab approaching the boat from the direction of Fairport . 
It was a large machine , but it was overloaded with seven or eight men . 
It stopped within twenty yards of the vessel , and two men got out , one of them evidently a person who imposed some sort of leadership on the rest of the party . 
This was a tall fellow , with a slouching gait and round shoulders . 
And yet , to judge from his movements , he was both quick and powerful . 
The other was a short , stout man with a commonplace , broad red face and flaxen hair . 
How long ago , Heinrich ? asked the tall man . 
An hour or so , said Heinrich . 
It was old man Abernethy he's harmless , said the tall fellow . 
He's the only person that's been aboard her in years . 
There was someone else , persisted Heinrich . 
Someone who was talking to Abernethy . 
The tall man mumbled something about having been a fool not to buy her before this Cleggett did not catch all of the remark . 
Then the tall fellow said We'll go aboard , Heinrich , and take a look around . 
With that they advanced towards the vessel . 
He made no attempt , this tall fellow , to give the situation a casual turn . 
What he did was to stand and stare at Cleggett , candidly , and with more than a touch of insolence , as if trying to beat down Cleggett's gaze . 
Cleggett , staring in his turn , perceived that the tall man , ungainly as he was , affected a bizarre individualism in the matter of dress . 
His clothing cried out , rather than suggested , that it was expensive . 
There were diamonds on the fingers of both powerful hands . 
But the thing that grated particularly upon Cleggett was the character of the man's scarfpin . 
In the eyeholes of the skull two opals flamed with an evil levin . 
And yet his face , more closely observed , somehow gave the lie to his clothes , for it was not lacking in the signs of intelligence . 
In spite of his taste , or rather lack of taste , there was no hint of weakness in his physiognomy . 
His features were harsh , bold , predatory a slightly yellowish tinge about the temples and cheek bones , suggestive of the ivory ornament , proclaimed a bilious temperament . 
He spoke with a kind of cold hostility that gave his words all the effect of a threat . 
Unconsciously he flexed his wrist in his characteristic gesture . 
Scarcely knowing that he spoke , he murmured That man gets on my nerves . 
That man was destined to do something more than get on Cleggett's nerves before the adventures of the Jasper B. were ended . 
CHAPTER IV A BAD MAN TO CROSS The isolated road house on the bay was a nondescript , jumbled , dilapidated looking assemblage of structures , rather than one house . 
It was known simply as Morris's . 
The town had thrown out a few ranks of cottages in the direction of the canal . 
But these were all summer bungalows , occupied only from June until the middle of September . 
The solider and more permanent part of Fairport was well withdrawn from the sandy , sedgy stretches that bordered on tidewater . 
This place was known as Parker's Beach and was open only during the summer . 
Morris's was of quite a different character from Parker's Beach . 
One could bathe at Morris's , but the beach near by was not particularly good . 
One could hire boats there and buy bait for a fishing trip . 
In one of its phases it made some pretensions to being a summer hotel . 
It had an extensive barroom . 
There was a dancing floor , none too smooth . 
There were long verandahs on three sides . 
That on the south side was built on piles' people ate and drank there in the summer beneath it the water swished and gurgled when the tide was in . 
The townspeople of Fairport , or the more respectable ones , kept away from Morris's , summer and winter . 
Summer transients , inhabitants of the bungalows during the bathing season , patronized the place . 
But most of the patronage at all seasons seemed to consist of automobile parties from the city people apparently drawn from all classes , or eluding definite classification entirely . 
In the bleakest season there was always a little stir of dubious activity about Morris's . 
In the summer it impressed you with its look of cheapness . 
Cleggett was anxious to get the Jasper B. into seaworthy condition as soon as possible . 
It occurred to him that the employment of expert advice should be his first step , and early the next morning he hired Captain Abernethy . 
He left his own cottage a mile or so away and took up his abode in the forecastle at once . 
By nine o'clock that morning Cleggett had a force of workmen renovating both cabin and forecastle , putting the cook's galley into working order , and cleansing the decks of soil and sand . 
That night Cleggett spent on the vessel , with Captain Abernethy . 
By Saturday of the same week Cleggett had bought the vessel on Wednesday he was able to take up his abode in the cabin with his books and arms about him . 
To his library he had added a treatise on navigation . 
And , reflecting that his firearms were worthless , considered as modern weapons , he also purchased a score of . 
caliber Colt's revolvers and automatic pistols of the latest pattern , and a dozen magazine rifles . 
The latter was a handsome , rather burly fellow of about thirty , a man with a kindling eye and a habit of boasting of his ancestors . 
Among them , he declared , was Leonidas , the hero of Thermopylae . 
The hold of the Jasper B. Cleggett and Captain Abernethy found to be in a chaotic state . 
Cleggett and Captain Abernethy decided that the vessel , which was stepped for two masts , should be rigged as a schooner . 
The Captain was soon busy securing estimates on the amount of work that would have to be done , and the cost of it . 
All the activity on board and about the Jasper B. had not gone on without attracting the attention of Morris's . 
Cleggett noticed that there was usually someone in the neighborhood of that dubious resort cocking an eye in the direction of the vessel . 
Indeed , the interest became so pronounced , and seemed of a quality so different from ordinary frank rustic curiosity , that it looked very like espionage . 
On Sunday morning Cleggett was awakened by Captain Abernethy , who announced Strange craft lookin' us over mighty close , sir . 
A strange craft ? Where is she ? Cleggett was instantly alert . 
Where is she ? repeated Cleggett , beginning to get into his clothes . 
She must 'a' sneaked up an' anchored mighty early this mornin' , pursued Cap'n Abernethy , true to his conversational principles . 
Is she in the bay or in the canal ? She looks like a mighty toney kind o' vessel , said Cap'n Abernethy . 
If I was to make a guess I'd say she was one of them craft that sails herself along when she wants to with one of these newfangled gasoline engines . 
She wasn't towed here then ? Cleggett gave up the attempt to learn from the Captain just where the house boat was . 
She lies in the canal , said the Cap'n . 
Having established the point that he could not be FORCED to tell where she lay , he volunteered the information as a personal favor from one gentleman to another . 
She lies ahead of us in the canal , a p'int or so off our port bow , I should say . 
And if you was to ask me I'd say she wasn't layin' there for any good purpose . 
Comin' of a seafarin' fambly I'm a light sleeper by nature . 
Cleggett finished dressing and went on deck . 
She was painted a slaty gray color . 
Looking towards Morris's himself Cleggett saw a man standing on the east verandah of that resort intently scanning the house boat through a glass . 
Cleggett went into the cabin and got his own glass . 
But Cleggett had already recognized the man at Morris's as the stoop shouldered man of tall stature and fanciful dress who had tried to stare him down some days before . 
, there was something vaguely familiar about his general appearance which puzzled and tantalized our hero . 
As the morning wore on Cleggett became certain that the Jasper B. was closely watched by both the Annabel Lee and Morris's , although the watchers avoided showing themselves plainly . 
Through the entire morning he was conscious of the continuance of this watch . 
He thought it ceased about luncheon time but at two in the afternoon he was certain that , if so , it had been resumed . 
Cleggett , innocent and honorable , began to get impatient of this persistent scrutiny . 
And in spite of his courage a vague uneasiness began to possess him . 
Towards the end of the afternoon he called his little company aft and spoke to them . 
My men , he said , I do not like the attitude of our neighbors . 
To put it briefly , there may be squalls ahead of the Jasper B. This is a wild and desolate coast , comparatively speaking . 
Strange things have happened to innocent people before this along the shores of Long Island . 
It is well to be prepared . 
I intend to serve out to each of you two hundred cartridges and a . 
In case of an attempt to board , you may find these cutlasses handy . 
Their eyes kindled and the keen joy that gallant men always feel in the anticipation of conflict flushed their faces . 
I am a son of Leonidas , said George Stefanopolous , proudly . 
And he secreted not merely one , but two , of Cleggett's daggers about his body , in addition to the revolver given him . 
I come of a seafarin' fambly , said the Cap'n , sententiously . 
As for Kuroki , he said nothing . 
He was not given to speech at any time . 
But he picked up a Malay kris and ran his thumb along the edge of it critically like a man to whom such a weapon is not altogether unfamiliar . 
A pleased smile stole over his face he handled the wicked knife almost affectionately he put it down with a little loving pat . 
Brave boys , murmured Cleggett , as he watched them . 
He smiled , but at the same time something like a tear blurred his eloquent and magnetic eye for a moment . 
Brave boys , he murmured , we were made for each other ! The display of the American flag by the Jasper B. had an effect that could not have been foreseen . 
Almost immediately the Annabel Lee herself flung an exactly similar American flag to the breeze . 
But a strange thing happened at Morris's . 
An American flag was first hung from an upper window over the east verandah . 
Then , after a moment , it was withdrawn . 
Then a red flag was put out . 
But almost immediately Cleggett saw a man rip the red flag from its fastenings and fling it to the ground . 
Cleggett , resorting to his glass , perceived that it was the tall man with the stoop shoulders and incongruous clothing who had torn down the red flag . 
He was now in violent altercation with the man who had hung it out the fellow whom he had called Heinrich some days before . 
As Cleggett watched , the two men came to blows then they clinched and struggled , swaying back and forth within the open window , like a moving picture in a frame . 
Suddenly the tall fellow seemed to get the upper hand exerting all his strength , he bent the other backward over the window sill . 
The two contending figures writhed desperately a moment and then the tall man shifted one powerful , sinewy hand to Heinrich's throat . 
The fact that he saw so plainly and yet could hear no sound of the struggle somehow added to its horror . 
All at once the tall man put his knee upon the other's chest , and flung his weight upon Heinrich with a vehement spring . 
Then he tumbled Heinrich out of the window onto the roof of the verandah . 
He stepped out of the window himself , picked Heinrich up with an ease that testified to his immense strength , and flung him over the edge of the verandah onto the ground . 
A few moments later a couple of men ran out from Morris's , busied themselves about reviving the fellow , and helped him into the house . 
If Heinrich was not badly injured , certainly all the fight had been taken out of him for one day . 
With Heinrich thus disposed of , the tall man turned composedly to the task of putting out the American flag again . 
Through the glass Cleggett perceived that his face was twisted by a peculiar smile a smile of joyous malevolence . 
A bad man to cross , that tall man , said Cleggett , musingly . 
A man determined to have his way , mused Cleggett . 
If he and I should meet Cleggett did not finish the sentence in words , but his hand closed over the butt of his revolver . 
His musing was interrupted by the noise of an approaching automobile . 
Turning , he saw a vehicle , the rather long body of which was covered so that it resembled a merchant's delivery wagon , coming along the road from Fairport . 
It stopped opposite the Jasper B. , and from the seat beside the driver leaped lightly the most beautiful woman Cleggett had ever seen , and walked hesitatingly but gracefully towards him . 
She was , in fact , sobbing and a Pomeranian dog which she carried in her arms was whimpering excitedly as if in sympathy with its mistress . 
Cleggett , soul of chivalry that he was , born cavalier of beauty in distress , removed his hat and advanced to meet her . 
Ice ? The request was so unusual that Cleggett was not certain that he had understood . 
Yes , ice ! Ice ! There was no mistaking the genuine character of her eagerness if she had been begging for her life she could not have been more in earnest . 
Don't tell me that you have none on your boat . 
Don't tell me that ! Don't tell me that ! And suddenly , like a woman who has borne all that she can bear , she burst undisguisedly into a paroxysm of weeping . 
Cleggett , stirred by her beauty and her trouble , stepped nearer to her , for she swayed with her emotion as if she were about to fall . 
You will think I am mad , said the lady , endeavoring to control her tears , but I MUST have ice . 
The reaction from despair had been too much for her it had come too suddenly at the first word of reassurance , at the first ray of dawning hope , she had fainted . 
He turned his head rather helplessly towards the vehicle in which the lady had arrived . 
To his consternation and surprise it had turned around and the chauffeur was in the act of starting back towards Fairport . 
Hi there ! Stop ! cried Cleggett to the chauffeur . 
That person stopped his machine . 
Then he started his machine again and made all speed in the direction of Fairport . 
I say , you , come here ! Cleggett called to the squat young man . 
Can't you see that the lady's fainted ? The squat young man , thus exhorted , sadly approached . 
Can't you see the lady has fainted ? repeated Cleggett . 
Skoits often does , said the squat young man , looking over the situation in a detached , judicial manner . 
But , don't you know her ? Didn't you come here with her ? The squat young man appeared to debate some moral issue inwardly for a moment . 
He went and sat down on the box again . 
Get a bottle of wine , he told Yosh , as he passed the Japanese on the deck , and then make some tea . 
Cleggett laid the lady on a couch in the cabin , and then lighted a lamp , as it got dark early in these quarters . 
While he waited for Yoshahira Kuroki and the wine , he looked at her . 
In her appealing helplessness she looked even more beautiful than she had at first . 
Her eyes , as he had seen before she swooned , were of a deep , dark violet color . 
She was no chit of a girl , but a mature woman , tall and splendid in the noble fullness of her contours . 
The high nose spoke of love of activity and energy of character . 
The full mouth indicated warmth of heart the chin was of that sort which we have been taught to associate with determination . 
The Japanese brought the wine , and Cleggett poured a few spoonfuls down the lady's throat . 
Presently she sighed and stirred and began to show signs of returning animation . 
Make some tea , Yosh , said Cleggett . 
What is it ? This last was addressed to the lady herself . 
Her eyes had opened for a fleeting instant as Cleggett spoke to the Japanese , and her lips had moved . 
And then she sat up with a start , struggled to recover herself , and looked about her wildly . 
Where am I ? she cried . 
What has happened ? She passed her hand across her brow , frowning . 
You fainted , madam , said Cleggett . 
Oh ! Suddenly recollection came to her , and her anxieties rushed upon her once more . 
The ice ! The ice ! She sprang to her feet , and grasped Cleggett by both shoulders , searching his face with eager eyes . 
You did not lie to me , did you ? You promised me ice ! Where is the ice ? You shall have the ice , said Cleggett , at once . 
Thank God ! she said . 
And then Where are Elmer and the box ? Elmer ? Oh , the short man ! On shore . 
I believe that he and your chauffeur had some sort of an altercation , for the chauffeur went off and left him . 
Yes , she said , simply , as they passed up the companionway to the deck together , that man , the driver , refused to bring us any farther . 
Cleggett must have looked a little blank at that , for she suddenly threw back her head and laughed at him . 
And if one of your men could just give him a lift ? And the ice ? George , called Cleggett , help the man get the boxes aboard . 
Kuroki , bring fifty pounds of ice on deck . 
She sighed as she heard him give these orders , but it was a sigh of satisfaction , and she smiled at Cleggett as she signed . 
Sometimes a great deal can happen in a very short space of time . 
Ten minutes before , Cleggett had never seen this lady , and now he was giving orders at her merest suggestion . 
You have found a woman in a strange position an unusual position , indeed ! and you have helped her without persecuting her with questions . 
It is nothing , murmured Cleggett . 
But I think you mentioned tea ? she said . 
George and Cap'n Abernethy were also watching Elmer from a discreet distance . 
Even Kuroki , silent , swift , and well trained Kuroki , could not but steal occasional glances at Elmer . 
Had Cleggett been of a less lofty and controlled spirit he would certainly have asked questions . 
These smaller lumps , with the exception of two , he put into the zinc bucket , wrapped around with pieces of coffee sacking . 
Then he put the cover on the bucket to exclude the air . 
The zinc bucket was thus a portable refrigerator , or rather , ice house . 
Then he inserted the tin funnel into a small hole in the uppermost surface of the unpainted , oblong box and dropped in twenty or more of the little pieces of ice . 
When a piece proved to be too big to go through the funnel Elmer broke it again . 
From the way in which he worked , and the care with which he conserved every smallest particle of ice , Elmer's motto seemed to be Haste not , waste not . 
But he did not appear to derive any great satisfaction from his task , let alone joy . 
In fact , Elmer seemed to be a joyless individual one who habitually looked forward to the worst . 
On his broad face , of the complexion described in police reports as pasty , melancholy sat enthroned . 
His nose was flat and broad , and flat and broad were his cheek bones , too . 
His hair was cut very short everywhere except in front in front it hung down to his eyebrows in a straggling black fringe or bang . 
Not that the fringe would have covered the average person's forehead this bang was not long but the truth is that Elmer's forehead was lower than the average person's and therefore easily covered . 
He had what is known in certain circles as a cauliflower , or chrysanthemum , ear . 
But melancholy as he looked , Elmer had evidently had his moments of struggle against dejection . 
One of these moments had been when he bought the clothes he was wearing . 
His collar was too high for his short neck , and seemed to cause him discomfort . 
As Elmer carefully dropped ice , piece by piece , into the oblong box , progressing slowly from hole to hole , Cleggett thought he had never seen a more depressed young man . 
The blonde lady laughed softly as the sailing master of the Jasper B. saluted the owner of the vessel . 
It was precisely what he HAD planned to say after drawing Cleggett discreetly aside . 
But it is rather startling to have one's thoughts read in this manner . 
He frowned at the lady . 
You want to get me off your boat at once , said the lady . 
And her manner added CAN'T you act like a good natured old dear ? You really are one , you know ! The Cap'n became embarrassed . 
He began to fuss with his necktie , as if tying it tighter would assist him to hold on to his frown . 
He felt the frown slipping , but it was a point of honor with him to retain it . 
She WILL be a sailin' vessel when she gets her sticks into her , said the Cap'n , fumbling with his neckwear . 
Let me fix that for you , said the lady . 
And before the Cap'n could protest she was arranging his tie for him . 
You old sea captains ! she said , untying the scarf and making the ends even . 
As if anyone could possibly be afraid to sail in anything one of YOU had charge of ! She gave the necktie a little final pat . 
There , now ! The Captain's frown was gone past replacement . 
But he still felt that he owed something to himself . 
And as far as SAILIN' her is concerned , Mr. Cleggett , I'll SAIL her , whether you turn her into a battleship or into one of these here yachts . 
I come of a seafarin' fambly . 
And then he said to the lady , indicating the tie and bobbing his head forward with a prim little bow Thank ye , ma'am . 
Isn't he a duck ! said the lady , following him with her eyes , as he went behind the cabin . 
There the Cap'n chewed , smoked , and fished , earnestly and simultaneously , for ten minutes . 
Indeed , the blonde lady , from the moment when Elmer began to put ice into the box , seemed to have regained her spirits . 
The little dog , which was an indicator of her moods , had likewise lost its nervousness . 
When Kuroki had tea ready , the dog lay down at his mistress' feet , beside the table . 
Dear little Teddy , said the lady , patting the animal upon the head . 
I have named him , she said , after a great American . 
To my mind , the greatest Theodore Roosevelt . 
His championship of the cause of votes for women at a time when mere politicians were afraid to commit themselves is enough in itself to gain him a place in history . 
If he could not have been Cleggett he would have liked to have been either the Chevalier d'Artagnan or Theodore Roosevelt . 
He is a great man , said Cleggett . 
But the lady , with her second cup of tea in her hand , was evidently thinking of something else . 
Yes , yes , you do , she said , decidedly . 
After a meditative pause she said , leaning her elbows on the table and gazing searchingly into Cleggett's eyes I am going to trust you . 
I am going to reward your kindness by telling you a portion of my strange story . 
I am going to depend upon you to understand it . 
Cleggett bowed and murmured his gratitude at the compliment . 
Then he said You could trust me with But he stopped . 
He did not wish to be premature . 
I could trust you with my life , finished the lady , gravely . 
I feel it , somehow . 
It is because I do feel it that I tell you She paused , as if , after all , she lacked the courage . 
He was too fine in grain to force a confidence . 
After a moment she continued I can tell you this , she said , with a catch in her voice that was almost a sob , that I am practically friendless . 
When you call a taxicab for me in a few moments , and I leave you , with Elmer and my boxes , I shall have no place to go . 
But , surely , madam Do not call me madam . 
I am Lady Agatha Fairhaven . 
What is your name ? Cleggett told her . 
You have heard of me ? asked Lady Agatha . 
Cleggett was obliged to confess that he had not . 
I was one of the very first militant suffragettes to break a window if not the very first . 
The point is , indeed , in dispute . 
She gazed at Cleggett with terror stricken eyes , her beautiful face became almost haggard in an instant he thought she was about to faint again , but she did not . 
Mr. Cleggett , she said , in a voice that was scarcely louder than a whisper , I am going to confide everything to you the whole truth . 
I will spare myself nothing I will throw myself upon your mercy . 
CHAPTER VI LADY AGATHA'S STORY It was with the greatest difficulty that Cleggett repressed a start . 
Another man might have shown the shock he felt . 
But Cleggett had the iron nerve of a Bismarck and the fine manner of a Richelieu . 
He did not even permit his eyes to wander towards the box in question . 
He merely sat and waited . 
Lady Agatha , having brought herself to the point of revelation , seemed to find a difficulty in proceeding . 
Cleggett , mutely asking permission , lighted a cigarette . 
Oh if you will ! said Lady Agatha , extending her hand towards the case . 
I wish you knew England . 
She watched the curling smoke from her tobacco as it drifted across the table . 
If you knew England you would comprehend so much more readily some parts of my story . 
But , being an American , you can have no adequate conception of the conservatism that still prevails in certain quarters . 
I refer to the really old families among the landed aristocracy . 
Some of them have not changed essentially , in their attitude towards the world in general , since the reign of Queen Elizabeth . 
They make of family a fetish . 
They are ready to sacrifice everything upon the altar of family . 
There are certain things that are done . 
Certain things are not done . 
One must conform or She interrupted herself and delicately flicked the ash from her cigarette . 
Conform , or be jolly well damned , she finished , crossing one leg over the other and leaning back in her chair . 
This , by the way , is the only decent cigarette I have found in America . 
I hate to smoke perfume I like tobacco and most of your shops seem to keep nothing but the highly scented Turkish and Egyptian varieties . 
They were made in London , said Cleggett , bowing . 
Ah ! But where was I ? Oh , yes one must conform . 
Especially if one belongs to , or has married into , the Claiborne family . 
Of all the men in England the Earl of Claiborne is the most conservative , the most reactionary , the most deeply encrusted with prejudice . 
He would stop at little where the question concerned the prestige of the aristocracy in general he would stop at nothing where the Claiborne family is concerned . 
I am telling you all this so that you may get an inkling of the blow it was to him when I became a militant suffragist . 
It was blow enough to his nephew , Sir Archibald , my late husband . 
The Earl maintains that it hastened poor Archibald's death . 
Archibald had undermined his constitution with dissipation , and died following an operation for gravel . 
Upon Archibald's death the old Earl publicly acknowledged Reginald Maltravers , his natural son , and took steps to have him legitimatized . 
For all of the bend sinister upon his escutcheon , Reginald Maltravers was as fanatical concerning the family as his father . 
Perhaps more fanatical , because he secretly suffered for the irregularity of his own position in the world . 
As my husband was dead and there were no children , I could not see that I was accountable to the Claiborne family for my actions . 
But the Claibornes took a different view of it . 
In their philosophy , once a Claiborne , always a Claiborne . 
I was bringing disgrace and humiliation upon the family , in their opinion . 
Knowing the old Earl as I do , I am aware that his suffering was genuine and intense . 
But what was I to do ? One cannot desert one's principles merely because they cause suffering otherwise there could be no such thing as revolution . 
Reginald Maltravers had another reason for his persecution . 
After the death of Sir Archibald he himself sought my hand in marriage . 
I shall always remember the form of his proposal it concluded with these words 'Had Archibald lived you would have been a countess . 
You may still be a countess but you must drop this suffragist show , you know . 
It is all bally rot , Agatha , all bally rot . 
'You will not be my countess , then , he said . 
'Very well but I can promise you that you will cease to be a suffragist . 
I can still see the evil flash of his eye behind his monocle as he uttered these words and turned away . 
Lady Agatha shuddered at the recollection , and took a cup of tea . 
It was then , she resumed , that the real persecution began . 
I was peculiarly helpless , as I have no near relations who might have come to my defense . 
Three times he succeeded in having me flung into Holloway Jail . 
I need not tell you of the terrors of that institution , nor of the degrading horrors of forcible feeding . 
They are known to a shocked and sympathetic world . 
But Reginald Maltravers contrived , in my case , to add to the usual brutalities a peculiar and personal touch . 
By bribery , as I believe , he succeeded in getting himself into the prison as a turnkey . 
He soon learned that his very presence itself was a persecution . 
After my release from jail the last time , he began to follow me everywhere . 
Turn where I would , there was Reginald Maltravers . 
He strove to ruin me with my leaders in this despicable manner . 
But in the end he took to showing himself he stood and stared . 
He was subtle enough to shift the persecution from the province of the physical to the realm of the psychological . 
It was like being haunted . 
Even when I did not see him , I began to THINK that I saw him . 
He deliberately planted that hallucination in my mind . 
It is a wonder that I did not go mad . 
I finally determined to flee to America . 
I made all my arrangements with care and as I thought with secrecy . 
I imagined that I had given him the slip . 
But he was too clever for me . 
The third day out , as one of the ship's officers was showing me about the vessel , I detected Reginald Maltravers in the hold . 
It is not usual to allow women so far below decks but I had insisted on seeing everything . 
He turned away in confusion when he saw that he was discovered . 
I perceived that , designing to cross on the same ship with me , he had thought himself hidden there . 
He was not wearing his monocle , but I would know that sloping forehead , that blond mustache , and that long , high , bony nose anywhere . 
Lady Agatha broke off for a moment . 
But presently she continued I endeavored to evade him . 
He found me out at once . 
It was more terrible here than it had been in England . 
I had hours , sometimes even whole days , to myself . 
But this was not the worst . 
From his appearance it suddenly became apparent to me that Reginald Maltravers could not stop haunting me if he wished ! COULD not stop ? cried Cleggett . 
COULD not , said Lady Agatha . 
The hunt had become a monomania with him . 
It had become an obsession . 
He had given his whole mentality to it and it had absorbed all his faculties . 
He was now the victim of it . 
He had grown powerless in the grip of the idea he had lost volition in the matter . 
You can imagine my consternation when I realized this . 
I began to fear the day when his insanity would take some violent form and he would endeavor to do me a personal injury . 
I determined to have a bodyguard . 
I wanted a man inured to danger one capable of meeting violence with violence , if the need arose . 
I did not consider appealing to the authorities , for I have no confidence in your American laws , Mr. Cleggett . 
But I did not know how to go about finding a chivalrous Western outlaw . 
So finally I put an advertisement in the personal column of one of your morning papers for a reformed convict . 
A reformed convict ! exclaimed Cleggett . 
May I ask how you worded the ad . 
? Oh , advertisement ? I will get it for you . 
She went into the stateroom and was back in a moment with a newspaper cutting which she handed to Cleggett . 
It read Convict recently released from Sing Sing , if his reform is really genuine , may secure honest employment by writing to A. F. , care Morning Dispatch . 
Out of the answers , she resumed , I selected four and had their writers call for a personal interview . 
But only two of them seemed to me to be really reformed , and of these two Elmer's reform struck me as being the more genuine . 
You may have noticed that Elmer gives the appearance of being done with worldly vanities . 
He does seem depressed , said Cleggett , but I had imputed it largely to the nature of his present occupation . 
It is due to his attempt to lead a better life or at least so he tells me , said Lady Agatha . 
Morality does not come easy to Elmer , he says , and I believe him . 
Elmer's time is largely taken up by inward moral debate as to the right or wrong of particular hypothetical cases which his imagination insists on presenting to his conscience . 
I can certainly imagine no state of mind less enjoyable , said Cleggett . 
Nor I , replied Lady Agatha . 
But to resume The very fact that I had employed a guard seemed to put Reginald Maltravers beside himself . 
He followed me more closely than ever . 
I did not dare make a scene the thing was causing enough remark without that I was , in fact , losing my reputation . 
Finally , goaded beyond endurance , I called Elmer into my apartment one day and put the whole case before him . 
'I will pay almost any price short of participation in actual crime , I told him , 'for a fortnight of freedom from that man's presence . 
I can stand it no longer I feel my reason slipping from me . 
Procure me some wretches of this sort ! Elmer replied that such creatures do , indeed , exist . 
He called them what did he call them ? Gunmen ? suggested Cleggett . 
He brought two of them to me whom he introduced as She paused . 
The names escape me , she said . 
She called Elmer , just step here a moment , please . 
Elmer , who was still putting ice into the oblong box , moodily laid away his tools and approached . 
What WERE the odd names of your friends ? The ones who who made the mistake ? asked Lady Agatha , resuming her seat . 
And the words sent a thrill of elation through Cleggett's being . 
Picture what ? Picture not'in ! said Elmer , huskily . 
The bulls got not'in' on them boys . 
Them guys never been mugged . 
Them guys is too foxy t' get mugged . 
I infer that you weren't always so foxy , said Cleggett , eyeing him curiously . 
The remark seemed to touch a sensitive spot . 
Elmer flushed and shuffled from one foot to the other , hanging his head as if in embarrassment . 
Finally he said , earnestly I wasn't no boob , Mr. Cleggett . 
It was a snitch got ME settled . 
I was a good cracksman , honest I was . 
But I never had no luck . 
I intended no reflection on your professional ability , said Cleggett , politely . 
Oh , that's all right , Mr. Cleggett , said Elmer , forgivingly . 
And any friend of th' little dame here is a friend o' mine . 
The diminutive , on Elmer's lips , was intended as a compliment Lady Agatha was not a small woman . 
Elmer , said Lady Agatha , tell Mr. Cleggett how the mistake occurred . 
Oratory was evidently not Elmer's strongest point . 
Do youse get me ? So I says to m'self , the big boob ought to get a wallop on the nut . 
See ? What th' big gink needs is someone to bounce a brick off his bean , f'r th' dame here's a square little dame . 
Do youse get me ? So I says to the little dame 'I'm wit' youse , see ? W'at th' big gink needs is a mont' in th' hospital . 
Lady Agatha , who could see into the opening , arose with a scream . 
Cleggett , leaping towards the hatchway , was just in time to see two men jump backward from the bottom of the ladder into the murk of the hold . 
Drawing his pistol , and calling to the crew of the Jasper B. to follow him , Cleggett plunged recklessly downward and into the darkness . 
CHAPTER VII FIRST BLOOD FOR CLEGGETT As his feet struck the top of the rubbish heap in the hold of the vessel , Cleggett stumbled and staggered forward . 
But he did not let go of his revolver . 
Damn the dog ! cried Cleggett , going down . 
But the fall probably saved his life , for as he spoke two pistol shots rang out simultaneously from the forward part of the hold . 
The bullets passed over his head . 
Raising himself on his elbow , Cleggett fired rapidly three times , aiming at the place where a spurt of flame had come from . 
A cry answered him , and he knew that at least one of his bullets had taken effect . 
He rose to his feet and plunged forward , firing again , and at the same instant another bullet grazed his temple . 
But only a single pistol replied to Cleggett's now and he was confident that one of the men was out of the fight . 
But the other man , blindly or with intention , was stumbling nearer as he fired . 
Cleggett clubbed his pistol and leaped forward , striking at the place where the gleaming teeth had been . 
His blow missed he spun around with the force of it . 
As he steadied himself to shoot again he heard a rush behind him and knew that his men had come to his assistance . 
Collar him ! he cried . 
Don't shoot , or But he did not finish that sentence . 
A thousand lights danced before his eyes , Niagara roared in his ears for an instant , and he knew no more . 
His adversary had laid him out with the butt of a pistol . 
Napoleon was picked out of the ditch . 
Both were saved for larger triumphs . 
The association of names is not accidental . 
These two men were , in some respects , not dissimilar , although Bonaparte lacked Cleggett's breeding . 
Cleggett struggled to his feet . 
Is he dead ? he asked , pointing to the figure of his recent assailant . 
Cap'n Abernethy , for the first time since Cleggett had known him , gave a direct answer to a question . 
Mighty nigh it , he said , staring down at the young man . 
Then he added Kind o' innocent lookin' young fellow , at that . 
But the other one ? Was he killed ? asked Cleggett . 
The other ? George inquired . 
But there was no other . 
When we got down there you and this boy And George described the struggle that had taken place after Cleggett had lost consciousness . 
They had not subdued the youth until he had suffered severely from George's dagger . 
Later they learned that one of Cleggett's bullets had also found him . 
Cleggett listened to the end , and then he said But there WERE two men in the hold . 
And one of them , dead or wounded , must still be down there . 
Carry this fellow into the forecastle we'll look at him later . 
We are going down into that hold again . 
With their pistols in their right hands and lanterns in their left they descended , Cleggett first . 
It was not impossible that the other intruder might be lying , wounded , but revived enough by now to work a pistol , behind one of the rubbish heaps . 
But no shots greeted them . 
The hold of the Jasper B. was not divided into compartments of any sort . 
If it had ever had them , they had been torn away . 
Below deck , except for the rubbish heap and the steps for the masts , she was empty as a soup tureen . 
The pile of debris was the highest toward the waist of the vessel . 
And , until they reached a clearer place , well forward , on the starboard side of the ship , they found no trace of anyone . 
Cleggett , who was examining this place , suddenly uttered an exclamation which brought the others to him . 
He pointed to stains of blood upon the planking near these stains were marks left by boots which had been gaumed with a yellowish clay . 
A revolver lay on the floor . 
Cleggett examined it and found that only one cartridge had been exploded . 
The stains of blood and the stains of yellow clay made an easily followed trail for some yards to a point about halfway between the bow and stern on the starboard side . 
There , in the waist of the vessel , they ceased ceased abruptly , mysteriously . 
Cleggett , not content , made his men go over the place again , even more thoroughly than before . 
But there was no one there , dead or wounded , unless he had succeeded in contracting himself to the dimensions of a rat . 
There is nothing , said Cleggett , standing by the ladder that led up to the deck . 
A startled look spread from face to face . 
There was no need to . 
All recognized that they were in the presence of an apparent impossibility . 
Yet this seemingly impossible thing was the fact . 
There had been two men in the hold of the Jasper B. They had entered as mysteriously and silently as disembodied spirits might have done . 
One of them , wounded , had made his exit in the same baffling way . 
Where ? How ? Cleggett broke the silence . 
Let us go to the forecastle and have a look at that fellow , he said , and led the way . 
No one lagged as they left the hold . 
These were all brave men , but there are times when the invisible , the incomprehensible , will send a momentary chill to the heart of the most intrepid . 
Cleggett found Lady Agatha , her own troubles for the time forgotten , in the forecastle . 
She had lighted a lamp and was bending over the wounded man , whose coat and waistcoat she had removed . 
His clothing was a sop of blood . 
They cut his shirt and undershirt from him . 
Oh , I am not an altogether useless person , she said , with a momentary smile , as she saw the look in Cleggett's face . 
And Cleggett remembered with shame that he had not thanked her for her ministrations to himself . 
A pistol bullet had gone quite through the young man's shoulder . 
There was a deep cut on his head , and there were half a dozen other stab wounds on his body . 
George had evidently worked with great rapidity in the hold . 
In the inside breast pocket of his coat he had carried a thin and narrow little book . 
There was a dagger thrust clear through it if the book had not been there this terrible blow delivered by the son of Leonidas must inevitably have penetrated the lung . 
It was entitled Songs of Liberty , by Giuseppe Jones . 
The verse was written in the manner of Walt Whitman . 
A glance at one of the sprawling poems showed Cleggett that in sentiment it was of the most violent and incendiary character . 
Why , he is an anarchist ! said Cleggett in surprise . 
Oh , really ! Lady Agatha looked up from her work of mercy and spoke with animation , and then gazed upon the youth's face again with a new interest . 
An anarchist ! How interesting ! I have ALWAYS wanted to meet an anarchist . 
Poor boy , he don't look like nothin' bad , said Cap'n Abernethy , who seemed to have taken a fancy to Giuseppe Jones . 
What does it mean ? It means began Cleggett , and then stopped . 
That don't explain how he sneaked into the hold of the Jasper B. , nor what for . 
But he orter have a doctor . 
He shall have a physician , said Cleggett . 
In fact , the Jasper B. needs a ship's doctor . 
It looks to me , said Captain Abernethy , as if she did . 
Captain , said Cleggett , you are a humane man let me shake your hand . 
Something tells me , said Cleggett seriously , that this intrusion of armed men is only a prelude . 
I have little doubt of the hostility of Morris's I am sure that the men who hid in the hold are spies from Morris's . 
I do not yet know the motive for this hostility . 
But the Jasper B. is in the midst of dangers and mysteries . 
There is before us an affair of some magnitude . 
Ere the Jasper B. sets sail for the China Seas , there may be many wounds . 
And then he began to outline a plan that had flashed , full formed , into his mind . 
It was to rent , or purchase , the buildings at Parker's Beach , and fit them up as a field hospital , with three or four nurses in charge . 
Lady Agatha , who had been listening intently , interrupted . 
But the China Seas , she said . 
Did I understand you to say that you intend to set sail for the China Seas ? That is the ultimate destination of the Jasper B. said Cleggett . 
I have heard it seems to me that I have heard that it's a very dangerous place , ventured Lady Agatha . 
Pirates , you know , and all that sort of thing . 
Pirates , said Cleggett , abound . 
A brush or two ! Lady Agatha regarded him speculatively . 
But those nurses she said . 
If you're going to the China Seas you can't very well take Parker's Beach along . 
I was coming to that , said Cleggett , bowing . 
I contemplate a hospital ship a vessel supplied with nurses and lint and medicines , that will accompany the Jasper B. , and fly the Red Cross flag . 
But they are frightful people , really , those Chinese pirates , you know , said Lady Agatha . 
Do you think they'll quite appreciate a hospital ship ? It is my duty , said Cleggett , simply . 
Whether they appreciate it or not , a hospital ship they shall have . 
This is the twentieth century . 
And although the great spirits of other days had much to commend them , it is not to be denied that they knew little of our modern humanitarianism . 
It has remained for the twentieth century to develop that . 
And one owes a duty to one's epoch as well as to one's individuality . 
And I have no doubt that many a Chinese pirate would , under other circumstances , have developed into a very contented and useful laundry man . 
Lady Agatha studied him intently for a moment . 
Mr. Cleggett , she said , if you will permit me to say so , a great suffragist leader was lost when fate made you a man . 
Thank you , said Cleggett , bowing again . 
He dispatched George a person of address as well as a fighter in whom the blood of ancient Greece ran quick and strong on a humanitarian mission . 
George was to walk a mile to the trolley line , go to Fairport , hire a taxicab , and make all possible speed into Manhattan . 
There he was to communicate with a young physician of Cleggett's acquaintance , Dr . 
Farnsworth , as Cleggett knew , was just out of medical school . 
He had his degree , but no patients . 
But he was bold and ready . 
He was , in short , just the lad to welcome with enthusiasm such a chance for active service as the cruise of the Jasper B. promised to afford . 
It was something of a risk to weaken his little party by sending George away for several hours . 
But Cleggett did not hesitate . 
He was not the man to allow considerations of personal safety to outweigh his devotion to an ideal . 
It is possible that together we may be able to find some solution of your problem . 
Dine ! exclaimed Lady Agatha , eagerly . 
Cleggett followed her gaze , and it must be admitted that he himself experienced a momentary sense of depression at the sight of the box of Reginald Maltravers . 
It looked so damp , it looked so chill , it looked so starkly and patiently and malevolently watchful of himself and Lady Agatha . 
And the mournful Elmer , now drowsing callously over his charge , was not an invitation to be blithe . 
The cabin is at your service , said Cleggett , for he understood that she wished to dress for dinner . 
Then , taking with him some necessaries of his own , he withdrew to the forecastle to make a careful toilet . 
If he had thought her beautiful before , when she wore her plain traveling suit , he thought her radiant now , in the true sense of that much abused word . 
For she flung forth her charm in vital radiations . 
If Cleggett had possessed a common mind he might have phrased it to himself that she hit a man squarely in the eyes . 
The costume was a creation of white satin , the folds caught here and there with strings of pearls . 
There was a single large rose of pink velvet among the draperies of the skirt a looped girdle of blue velvet was the only other splash of color . 
But the full leaved , expanded and matured rose became the vivid epitome and illustration of the woman herself . 
Lady Agatha always knew where to stop . 
I have not been so hungry since I was in Holloway Jail , said Lady Agatha . 
And she ate with a candid gusto that pleased Cleggett , who loathed in a woman a finical affectation of indifference to food . 
When Kuroki brought the coffee she took up her own story again . 
There was little more to tell . 
Dopey Eddie and Izzy the Cat , it appeared , had mistaken their instructions . 
Two nights after they had been engaged they had appeared at Lady Agatha's apartment with the oblong box . 
The horrid creatures brought it into my sitting room and laid it on the floor before I could prevent them , said Lady Agatha . 
'What is this ? I asked them , in bewilderment . 
They replied that they had killed Reginald Maltravers ACCORDING TO ORDERS , and had brought him to me . 
'You had no such orders . 
Elmer , who lived on the same floor , was absent temporarily , having taken Teddy out for an airing . 
I did not know what to do . 
'Your orders , I said , 'were to to She broke off . 
What was it that Elmer told them to do , and what was it that they did ? she mused , perplexed . 
She called Elmer into the cabin . 
Elmer , she said , exactly what was it that you told your friends to do to him ? And what was it that they did ? I can never remember the words . 
Poke him , said Elmer , addressing Cleggett . 
I tells these ginks to poke him . 
But these ginks tells th' little dame here they t'inks I has said to croak him . 
So they goes an' croaks him . 
D' youse get me ? Being assured that they got him , Elmer downheartedly withdrew . 
At any rate , continued Lady Agatha , there was that terrible box upon my sitting room floor , and there were those two degraded wretches . 
The callous beasts stood above the box apparently quite insensible to the ethical enormity of their crime . 
But they were keen enough to see that it might be used as a lever with which to force more money from me . 
For when I demanded that they take the box away with them and dispose of it , they only laughed at me . 
They said that they had had enough of that box . 
They had delivered the goods that was the phrase they used and they wanted more money . 
And they said they would not leave until they got it . 
They threatened , unless I gave them the money at once , to leave the place and get word to the police of the presence of the box in my apartment . 
I was in no mental condition to combat and get the better of them . 
I felt myself to be entirely in their power . 
I saw only the weakness of my own position . 
I could not , at the moment , see the weak spots in theirs . 
Elmer might have advised me but he was not there . 
The miserable episode ended with my giving them a thousand dollars each , and they left . 
Alone with that box , my panic increased . 
When Elmer returned with Teddy , I told him what had happened . 
He wished to open the box , having a vague idea that perhaps after all it did not really contain what they had said was in it . 
But I could not bear the thought of its being opened . 
I refused to allow Elmer to look into it . 
I determined that I would ship the box at once to some fictitious personage , and then take the next ship back to England . 
Newark I had heard of . 
I knew vaguely that it was west of New York , but whether it was twenty miles west or two thousand miles , I did not stop to think . 
I am ignorant of American geography . 
But no sooner had the box been taken away than I began to be uneasy . 
I was more frightened with it gone than I had been with it present . 
I imagined it being dropped and broken , and revealing everything . 
And then it occurred to me that even if I should get out of the country , the secret was bound to be discovered some time . 
I do not know why I had not thought of that before but I was distracted . 
Having got rid of the box , I was already wild to get it into my possession again . 
I confided my fears to Elmer , and was surprised to learn from him that Newark is very near New York . 
We took a taxicab at once , and were waiting at the freight depot in Newark when the thing arrived . 
There I claimed it in the name of Miss Genevieve Pringle . 
It became apparent to me that I must manage its final disposition myself . 
Elmer hired for me the vehicle in which we arrived here , and we started back to New York . 
But the driver , from the first , was suspicious of the box . 
The manager had seen the box brought in , and taken out again , before . 
Its return struck him as odd . 
He offered to store it for me in the basement . 
I took alarm at once . 
Naturally , he questioned me more closely . 
I was unready in my answers . 
His inquiries excited and alarmed me . 
I felt that any instant I might do something to betray myself . 
I cut the manager short , paid my bill , got my luggage , and ordered the chauffeur to drive to the Grand Central Station . 
But when we had gone three or four blocks , I said to him 'Stop ! I do not wish to go to the Grand Central Station . 
Drive me to Poughkeepsie ! I wished a chance to think . 
But I could not think coherently . 
I could only feel and fear . 
Thereupon he insolently demanded an enormous fare . 
I could not choose but pay it . 
Elmer and I were continually on the lookout for some way to dispose of the box , but nothing presented itself . 
The driver , who had become more and more impudent in his attitude and outrageous in his charges , was now practically a spy upon us . 
The necessity for ice made frequent stops imperative at the same time the increasing fear of pursuit made it agony for me to stop anywhere . 
Today , at a road house thirty or forty miles from here , I made certain that I was pursued . 
The very man from whom I had claimed the box at the railway goods station in Newark confronted me . 
It appears , from what Elmer says , that he is taking a holiday and is visiting his brother , who is the proprietor of the road house . 
Having somehow traced me to Long Island , she had actually made inquiries at this very road house some hours earlier . 
It cost me another large sum . 
A few hours ago the chauffeur , divining from a conversation between Elmer and me that I was running short of ready money , deserted me here . 
Her voice trailed off into a tired whisper as she finished , and with her elbows on the table Lady Agatha wearily supported her head in her hands . 
She was despairingly certain that she would never see the last of the box which she believed to contain Reginald Maltravers . 
Cleggett did not hesitate an instant . 
Lady Agatha , he said , the Jasper B. is at your service as long as you may require the ship . 
The cabin is your home until we arrive at a solution of your difficulties . 
His glance and manner added what his tongue left unuttered that the commander of the ship was henceforth her devoted cavalier . 
Her answer was on her lips . 
But at that instant the jarring roar of an explosion struck the speech from them . 
The blast was evidently near , though muffled . 
The earth shook a tremor ran through the Jasper B. the glasses leaped and rang upon the table . 
Cleggett , followed by Lady Agatha , darted up the companionway . 
The light that stabbed and was gone in an instant was about halfway between the Jasper B. and Morris's . 
The next day Cleggett saw several of these fragments lying about the plain . 
Calling to his men to bring lanterns for the night had fallen dark and cloudy Cleggett ran towards the place . 
Lady Agatha , refusing to remain behind , went with them . 
Moving lights and a stir of activity at Morris's , and the gleam of lanterns on board the Annabel Lee , showed Cleggett that his neighbors likewise were excited . 
But if Cleggett had expected an easy solution of this astonishing eruption he was disappointed . 
Arrived at the scene of the explosion , he found that its nature was such as to tease and balk his faculties of analysis . 
The blast had blown a hole into the ground , certainly but this hole was curiously filled . 
Two large bowlders that leaned towards each other had stood on top of the ground . 
These had been split and shattered into many fragments . 
It was impossible to determine just where and how the blast had been set off the rocks hid the facts . 
The pieces that had been thrown high into the air were insignificant in proportion to the great bulk which had settled into the hole and made its origin a mystery . 
As Cleggett , bewildered , stood and gazed upon the mass of rock and earth , Cap'n Abernethy gave a cry and pointed at something with his finger . 
Cleggett , looking at the spot indicated , saw upon the edge of this singular fracture in the earth a thing that sent a quick chill of horror and repulsion to his heart . 
It was a dead hand , roughly severed between the wrist and the elbow . 
The back of it was uppermost the fingers were clenched . 
Cleggett set down his lantern beside it and turned it over with his foot . 
The dead fingers clutched a scrap of something yellow . 
On one of them was a large and peculiar ring . 
Fighting down his repugnance , he took from the lifeless and stubborn fingers the yellow scrap of paper . 
It was a torn and crumpled twenty dollar bill . 
I could not mistake it . 
There is no other like it , anywhere . 
It was a very heavy gold band , set with a large piece of dark green jade which was deeply graven on its surface with the Claiborne crest . 
Was it , asked Cleggett , in the possession of Reginald Maltravers ? It might have been , readily enough , she said , although I had not known that it was . 
Still , that does not explain . 
The explosion itself appears to me , just now , at least , hard to account for . 
The manner in which people get into and out of the hold of your vessel is also obscure , said Lady Agatha . 
Nor is the motive of their hostility clear , said Cleggett . 
He picked up the piece of paper money . 
Something about the feel of it aroused his suspicions . 
Then look at that , please . 
After wetting this fiber and mangling it with his penknife he gave his judgment briefly . 
But what does that explain ? asked Lady Agatha . 
And that is ? That our destinies are somehow linked ! Our destinies ? Linked ? She gave him a swift look , and as suddenly dropped her eyes again . 
Cleggett could not tell whether she was offended or not by his expression of the idea . 
The same people , said Cleggett , after a brief pause , who are so persistently hostile to me are also in some manner connected with your own misfortunes . 
Their possession of this ring shows that . 
Yes , she said , following his thought , that is true whoever set off that bomb was also wearing this ring , or was very near the person who was wearing it . 
We are in the midst of mysteries , he said finally . 
They are multiplying about us . 
He was about to say more . 
He was about to express again his belief that they had been flung together by fate . 
The sense that their stories were inextricably intertwined , that they must henceforward march on as one mystery towards a solution , was exhilarating to him . 
Bo , he said , I'm wit' youse . 
I'm wit' youse the whole way . 
Any friend of the little dame is a friend of mine . 
She's a square little dame . 
D' youse get me ? Thank you , said Cleggett , more affected than he would have cared to own . 
Thank you , my loyal fellow . 
Cleggett established a watch on deck that night , with a relief every two hours . 
Towards morning George returned , with Dr . 
This nurse , Miss Antoinette Medley , was a black eyed , slender girl with pretty hands and white teeth she gestured a great deal and smiled often . 
Farnsworth devoted themselves at once to the young anarchist poet , who had come out of his stupor , indeed , but was now babbling weakly in the delirium of fever . 
The night was not a cheerful one , and morning came gloomily out of a gray bank of mist . 
Cleggett , as he looked about the boat in the first pale light , could not resist a slight feeling of depression , courageous as he was . 
The wounded man gibbered in a bunk in the forecastle . 
The box of Reginald Maltravers stood on one end , leaning against the port side of the cabin , and dripped steadily . 
Elmer , wrapped in blankets , lay on the deck near the box of Reginald Maltravers , looking even more dejected in slumber than when his eyes were open . 
But Cleggett's nature was too lively and vigorous to remain clouded for long . 
By the time the red disk of the sun had crept above the eastern horizon he had shaken off his fit of the blues . 
The sun looked large and bland and friendly , and , somehow , the partisan of integrity and honor . 
He drew strength from it . 
Cleggett , like all poetic souls , was responsive to these familiar recurrent phenomena of nature . 
The sun did him another office . 
It showed him a peculiar tableau vivant on the eastern bank of the canal , near the house boat Annabel Lee . 
This consisted of three men , two of them naked except for bathing trunks of the most abbreviated sort , running swiftly and earnestly up and down the edge of the canal . 
He saw with astonishment that the two men in bathing suits were handcuffed together , the left wrist of one to the right wrist of the other . 
A rope was tied to the handcuffs , and the other end of it was held by the third man , who was dressed in ordinary tweeds . 
The third man had a magazine rifle over one shoulder . 
He followed about twenty feet behind the two men in bathing suits and drove them . 
Cleggett perceived that the man who was doing the driving was the same who had watched the Jasper B. so persistently the day before from the deck of the Annabel Lee . 
He was middle sized , and inclined to be stout , and yet he followed his strange team with no apparent effort . 
Cleggett saw through the glass that he had a rather heavy black mustache , and was again struck by something vaguely familiar about him . 
As Cleggett watched , the driver pulled them up short , and waved them towards the canal . 
They stopped , and it was apparent that they were balking and expostulating . 
But the driver was inexorable . 
He went near to them and threatened their bare backs with the slack of the rope . 
Gingerly and shiveringly they stepped into the cold water , while the driver stood on the bank . 
The water was up to their waists and he had to threaten them again with his rope before they would duck their heads under . 
But the cold bath had not improved their temper , for suddenly one of them leaped and kicked sidewise at the other , with the result that both toppled to the ground . 
The stout man was upon them in an instant , hazing them with the rope end . 
While Cleggett was still wondering what significance could underlie this unusual form of matutinal exercise , Dr . 
Farnsworth came out of the forecastle and beckoned to him . 
He was rumpling it now . 
Who's 'Loge' ? he demanded . 
And I wouldn't be surprised , to judge from the boy's delirium , if 'Loge' had something to do with all the hell that's been raised around your ship . 
Come in and listen to this fellow . 
Miss Medley , the nurse , was sitting beside the wounded youth's bunk , endeavoring to soothe and restrain him . 
The young anarchist , whose eyes were bright with fever , was talking rapidly in a weak but high pitched singsong voice . 
He's off on the poems again , said the Doctor , after listening a moment . 
But wait , he'll get back to Loge . 
It's been one or the other for an hour now . 
I spit upon your flag , shrilled Giuseppe Jones , feebly declamatory . 
'I spit I spit but , as I spit , I weep . 
He paused for a moment , and then began at the beginning and repeated all of the lines which Cleggett had read from the little book . 
One gathered that it was Giuseppe's favorite poem . 
But suddenly he interrupted himself the poems seemed to pass from his mind . 
You shouldn't ask it , Loge , he said . 
He ceased to babble terror expanded the pupils of his eyes and he pointed at vacancy with a shaking finger . 
Stop it ! he cried in a croaking whisper . 
Stop it ! It's his skull it's Loge's skull come alive . 
Stop it , I say , it's come alive and getting bigger . 
God ! his wounds ! cried the Doctor , starting forward . 
As Farnsworth had feared , they had broken open and were bleeding again . 
It's a ticklish thing , said Farnsworth , rumpling his hair . 
If I give him enough sedative to keep him quiet his heart may stop any time . 
If I don't , he'll thrash himself to pieces in his delirium before the day's over . 
But Cleggett scarcely heeded the Doctor . 
The reference to Loge's skull had flashed a sudden light into his mind . 
CHAPTER X IN THE ENEMY'S CAMP At seven o'clock that morning five big bodied automobile trucks rolled up in a thundering procession . 
In the hurry and excitement of recent events aboard the ship he had almost forgotten it . 
A score of men scrambled from the trucks and began to haul out of them all the essentials of a shipyard . 
Cleggett , with a pith and brevity characteristic of the man , had given his order in one sentence . 
Make arrangements to get the sails and masts into her in one day , he had told Captain Abernethy . 
Genius has winged conceptions it sees things as a completed whole from the first it is only mediocrity which permits itself to be lost in details . 
Cleggett was like the Romanoffs in his ability to go straight to the point , but he had none of the Romanoff cruelty . 
Captain Abernethy had made his arrangements accordingly . 
With several times the usual number of skilled workmen employed at double the usual rate of pay , he guaranteed to do in ten hours what might ordinarily have taken a week . 
To a casual observer it might have seemed a scene of confusion . 
The Jasper B. , in short , had been measured accurately for a suit of clothes , the clothes had been made they were now merely being put on . 
Refreshed by the first sound sleep she had been able to obtain for several nights , Lady Agatha joined Cleggett at an eight o'clock breakfast . 
It was the first of May , and warm and bright in a simple morning dress of pink linen Lady Agatha stirred in Cleggett a vague recollection of one of Tennyson's earlier poems . 
We must give you Americans credit for imagination at any rate , she said smilingly , making her Pomeranian sit up on his hind legs and beg for a morsel of crisp bacon . 
I awake in a boatyard after having gone to sleep in a dismantled barge . 
Barge ! The word barge struck Cleggett unexpectedly he was not aware that he had given a start and frowned . 
Mercy ! exclaimed Lady Agatha , how the dear man glares ! What should I call it ? Scow ? Scow ? said Cleggett . 
He had scarcely recovered from the word barge it is not to be denied that scow jarred upon him even more than barge had done . 
I beg your pardon , said Lady Agatha , but what IS the Jasper B. , Mr. Cleggett ? The Jasper B. is a schooner , said Cleggett . 
He tried to say it casually , but he was conscious as he spoke that there was a trace of hurt surprise in his voice . 
, that he felt angry at her for misunderstanding the Jasper B. You aren't going to be horrid about it , are you ? she said . 
Because , you know , I never said I knew anything about ships . 
She picked up the little dog and stood it on the table , making the animal extend its paws as if pleading . 
Help me to beg Mr. Cleggett's pardon , she said , he's going to be cross with us about his old boat . 
But Lady Agatha , it has been remarked before , never went too far in any direction . 
Then Cleggett cursed himself inwardly for a brute it rushed over him how difficult to Lady Agatha her position on board the Jasper B. must seem . 
She must regard herself as practically a pensioner on his bounty . 
And he had been churl enough to show a spark of temper and that , too , after she had repeatedly expressed her gratitude to him . 
I am deeply sorry , Lady Agatha , he began , blushing painfully , if Silly ! She interrupted him by reaching across the table and laying a forgiving hand upon his arm . 
Don't be so stiff and formal . 
Eat your egg before it gets cold and don't say another work . 
Of course I know you're not REALLY going to be cross . 
And she attacked her breakfast , giving him such a look that he forthwith forgave himself and forgot that he had had anything to forgive in her . 
There's going to be a frightful racket around here today , he said presently . 
Maybe you'd like to get away from it for a while . 
How'd you like to go for a row ? I'd love it ! she said . 
George will be glad to take you , I'm sure . 
I am going over to Morris's this morning , he said . 
To Morris's ? Alone ? Why , yes . 
But but isn't it dangerous ? Cleggett smiled and shrugged his shoulders . 
Promise me that you will not go over there alone , she demanded . 
But it is rash it is mad ! There is no real danger . 
Then I am going with you . 
I think that would hardly be advisable . 
I'm going with you , she repeated , rising with determination . 
But you're not , said Cleggett . 
I couldn't think of allowing it . 
Then there IS danger , she said . 
He tried to evade the point . 
I shouldn't have mentioned it , he murmured . 
She ran into the stateroom and was back in an instant with her hat , which she pinned on as she spoke . 
I'm ready to start , she said . 
After what you've done for me I insist upon my right to share whatever danger there may be . 
In her heat and impulsiveness and generous bravery Cleggett thought her adorable , although he began to get really angry with her , too . 
At the same time he was aware that her gratitude to him was such that she was on fire to give him some positive and early proof of it . 
She was , in fact , behaving like a chivalric but obstinate boy she had not been a militant suffragette for nothing . 
And yet , somehow , this attitude only served to enhance her essential femininity . 
Nevertheless , Cleggett was inflexible . 
That is exactly what I intend to do , said Cleggett , with an intensity equal to her own , FORBID you . 
You are curiously presumptuous , she said . 
It was a real quarrel before they were done with it , will opposed to naked will . 
And oddly enough Cleggett found his admiration grow as his determination to gain his point increased . 
For she fought fair , disdaining the facile weapon of tears , and when she yielded she did it suddenly and merrily . 
You've the temper of a sultan , Mr. Cleggett , she said with a laugh , which was her signal of capitulation . 
And then she added maliciously You've a devil of a temper for a little man ! Little ! Cleggett felt the blood rush into his face again and was vexed at himself . 
I'm taller than you are ! he cried , and the next instant could have bitten his tongue off for the childish vanity of the speech . 
You're not ! she cried , her whole face alive with laughter . 
Measure and see ! And pulling off her hat she caught up a table knife and made him stand with his back to hers . 
You're cheating , said Cleggett , laughing now in spite of himself , as she laid the knife across their heads . 
But his voice broke and trembled on the next words , for he was suddenly thrilled with her delicious nearness . 
You're standing on your tiptoes , and your hair's piled on top of your head . 
Maybe you are an inch taller , she admitted , with mock reluctance . 
And then she said , with a ripple of mirth You are taller than I am I give up I won't go to Morris's . 
Cleggett , to tell the truth , was a bit relieved at the measurement . 
He was of the middle height she was slightly taller than the average woman he had really thought she might prove taller than he . 
He could scarcely have told why he considered the point important . 
But after the quarrel she looked at Cleggett with a new and more approving gaze . 
Cleggett started across the sands toward Morris's with an automatic pistol slung in a shoulder holster under his left arm and a sword cane in his hand . 
He paused a moment by the scene of the explosion of the night before , but daylight told him nothing that lantern light had failed to reveal . 
He had no very definite plan , although he thought it possible that he might gain some information . 
The more he reflected on the attitude of Morris's , the more it irritated him , and he yearned to make this irritation known . 
Perhaps there was more than a little of the spirit of bravado in the call he proposed to pay . 
And he could not bear to think that the hostile denizens of Morris's should think that he had moved the Jasper B. from her position through any fear of them . 
He reasoned that the most pointed way of showing his opinion of them would be to walk casually into Morris's barroom and order a drink or two . 
If Cleggett had a fault as a commander it lay in these occasional foolhardy impulses which he found it difficult to control . 
Julius Caesar had the same sort of pride , which , in Caesar's case , amounted to positive vanity . 
In fact , the character of Caesar and the character of Cleggett had many points in common , although Cleggett possessed a nicer sense of honor than Caesar . 
The main entrance to Morris's was on the west side . 
From the west verandah one could enter directly either the main dining room , at the north side of the building , the office , or the barroom . 
The barroom , which was large , ran the whole length of the south side of the place . 
That had been only the day before , but so much had happened since that Cleggett could scarcely realize that so little time had elapsed . 
Cleggett strolled into the barroom and took a seat at a table in the southeast corner of it , with his back to the angle of the walls . 
By turning his head ever so slightly to his right , he could command a view of the door leading to the east verandah . 
Unless the ceiling suddenly opened above him , or the floor beneath , it would be impossible to surprise him . 
Cleggett took this position less through any positive fear of attack than because he possessed the instinct of the born strategist . 
Cleggett was like Robert E. Lee in his quick grasp of a situation and , indeed , in other respects although Cleggett would never under any circumstances have countenanced human slavery . 
There were only two men in the place when Cleggett took his seat , the bartender and a fellow who was evidently a waiter . 
He had entered the west door and walked across the room without looking at them , withholding his gaze purposely . 
When he looked towards the bar , after seating himself , the waiter , with his back towards Cleggett's corner , was talking in a low tone to the bartender . 
But they had both seen him Cleggett perceived they both knew him . 
See what the gentleman wants , Pierre , said the bartender in a voice too elaborately casual to hide his surprise at seeing Cleggett . 
The waiter turned and came towards him , and Cleggett saw the man's face for the first time . 
It was a face that Cleggett never forgot . 
Cleggett judged the man to be a Frenchman he was dark and sallow , with nervous , black eyebrows , and a smirk that came and went quickly . 
But the unforgettable feature was a mole that grew on his upper lip , on the right side , near the base of his flaring nostril . 
Many moles have hairs in them Pierre's mole had not merely half a dozen hairs , but a whole crop . 
He was a big fellow , for a Frenchman , and , as he walked towards Cleggett with a mincing elasticity of gait , he smirked and caressed this whimsical adornment . 
Cleggett , fascinated , stared at it as the fellow paused before him . 
It was all done with that air of quiet histrionicism , and with that sense of self appreciation , which only the French can achieve in its perfection . 
You ordered , M'sieur ? Pierre , having produced his effect , like the artist that he was , did not linger over it . 
Er a Scotch highball , said Cleggett , recovering himself . 
And with a piece of lemon peeling in it , please . 
Cleggett stirred his drink and sipped it slowly , gazing at the bartender , who elaborately avoided watching him . 
But after a moment a little noise at his right attracted his attention . 
Pierre , with his hand cupped , had dashed it along a window pane and caught a big stupid fly , abroad thus early in the year . 
With a sense of almost intolerable disgust , Cleggett saw the man , with a rapt smile on his face , tear the insect's legs from it , and turn it loose . 
If ever a creature rejoiced in wickedness for its own sake , and as if its practice were an art in itself , Pierre was that person , Cleggett concluded . 
Knowing Pierre , one could almost understand those cafes of Paris where the silly poets of degradation ostentatiously affect the worship of all manner of devils . 
But at that instant the door from the office opened and the man whom he knew only as Loge entered the room . 
Loge paused at the right of Cleggett , and then marched directly across the room and sat down opposite the commander of the Jasper B. at the same table . 
He was wearing the cutaway frock coat , and as he swung his big frame into the seat one of his coat tails caught in the chair back and was lifted . 
Cleggett saw the steel butt of an army revolver . 
Loge perceived by his face that he had seen it , and laughed . 
I've been wanting to talk to you , he said , leaning across the table and showing his yellow teeth in a smile which he perhaps intended to be ingratiating . 
Cleggett , looking Loge fixedly in the eye , withdrew his right hand from beneath his coat , and laid his magazine pistol on the table under his hand . 
I am at your service , he said , steadily , giving back unwavering gaze for gaze . 
I am looking for some information myself , and I am in exactly the humor for a little comfortable chat . 
CHAPTER XI REPARTEE AND PISTOLS Loge dropped his gaze to the pistol , and the smile upon his lips slowly turned into a sneer . 
But when he lifted his eyes to Cleggett's again there was no fear in them . 
Put up your gun , he said , easily enough . 
You won't have any use for it here . 
Thank you for the assurance , said Cleggett , but it occurs to me that it is in a very good place where it is . 
Oh , if it amuses you to play with it said Loge . 
It does , said Cleggett dryly . 
It's an odd taste , said Loge . 
It's a taste I've formed during the last few days on board my ship , said Cleggett meaningly . 
Oh , I beg your pardon . 
You mean the old hulk over yonder in the canal ? Over yonder in the canal , said Cleggett , without relaxing his vigilance . 
You've been frightened over there ? asked Loge , showing his teeth in a grin . 
Loge looked at the pistol under Cleggett's hand , and from the pistol to Cleggett's face , with ironical gravity , before he spoke . 
I should have thought , from the way you cling to that pistol , that perhaps your nerves might be a little weak and shaky . 
That would be mighty good shooting , said Loge , turning in his chair and measuring the distance with his eye . 
I don't believe you could do it . 
I don't mind telling you that I couldn't . 
In fact , you are dressed generally in damned bad taste . 
Who is your tailor ? Cleggett was gratified to see a dull flush spread over the other's face at the insult . 
I don't know why you should suddenly lay a pistol between us . 
I don't , in short , know why we should sit here paying each other left handed compliments , when it was merely my intention to make you a business proposition . 
I have been waiting to hear what you had to say to me , said Cleggett , without being in the least thrown off his guard by the other's change of manner . 
If you had not chanced to drop in here today , said Loge , I had intended paying you a visit . 
I have had several visitors lately , said Cleggett nonchalantly , and I think at least two of them can make no claim that they were not warmly received . 
But if Cleggett's meaning reached him he was too cool a hand to show it . 
He persisted in his affectation of a businesslike air . 
Am I right in thinking that you have bought the boat ? You are . 
To come to the point , said Loge , I want to buy her from you . 
What will you take for her ? The proposition was unexpected to Cleggett , but he did not betray his surprise . 
You want to buy her ? he said . 
And let me warn you that unless you show your curiosity in some other manner henceforth , you will seriously regret it . 
A couple of your men have repented of your interest already . 
My men ? What do you mean by my men ? I haven't any men . 
Loge's imitation of astonishment was a piece of art but if anything he overdid it a trifle . 
I ask you again , what will you take for her ? She's not for sale , said Cleggett shortly . 
Loge did not speak again for a moment . 
Instead , he picked up the spoon with which Cleggett had stirred his highball and began to draw characters with its wet point upon the table . 
If it's a question of price , he said finally , I'm prepared to allow you a handsome profit . 
Cleggett determined to find out how far he would go . 
Then he said I will . 
Turn her over to me the way she was the day you bought her , and I'll give you , . 
He paused , and then repeated , stressing the words MIND YOU , WITH EVERYTHING IN HER THE WAY IT WAS THE DAY YOU BOUGHT HER . 
Cleggett fumbled with his fingers in a waistcoat pocket , drew out the torn piece of counterfeit money which he had taken from the dead hand , and flung it on the table . 
Five thousand dollars , he said , in THAT kind of money ? Loge looked at it with eyes that suddenly contracted . 
Clever dissembler that he was , he could not prevent an involuntary start . 
He licked his lips , and Cleggett judged that perhaps his mouth felt a little dry . 
But these were the only signs he made . 
Indeed , when he spoke it was with something almost like an air of relief . 
Come , he said , now we're down to brass tacks at last on this proposition . 
Mr. Detective , name your real price . 
Cleggett did not answer immediately . 
He appeared to consider his real price . 
But in reality he was thinking that there was no longer any doubt of the origin of the explosion . 
Since Loge practically acknowledged the counterfeit money , the man who had died with this piece of it in his hand must have been one of Loge's men . 
But he only said Why do you call me a detective ? Loge shrugged his shoulders . 
Then he said again Your real price ? What , said Cleggett , trying him out , do you think of , ? The other gave a long , low whistle . 
Gad ! he cried , what crooks you bulls are . 
It's not so much , said Cleggett deliberately , when one takes everything into consideration . 
Then he said That figure is out of the question . 
I'll give you , and not a cent more . 
You want her pretty badly , said Cleggett . 
Or you want what's on her . 
Why , said Loge , with an assumption of great frankness , between you and me I don't care a damn about your boat . 
I think we understand each other . 
I'm buying her to get what's on her . 
Suppose I sell you what's on her for , and keep the ship , said Cleggett , wondering what WAS on the Jasper B. Agreed , said Loge . 
He felt certain that it was not merely counterfeit bills . 
Cleggett determined upon a minute and thorough search of the hold . 
You'll send for it ? said Cleggett , still trying to get a more definite idea of what it was , without revealing that he did not know . 
I'll come myself with a taxicab , said Loge . 
Cleggett rose , smiling he had found out as much as he could expect to learn . 
On the whole , he said , I think that I prefer to keep the Jasper B. and everything that's in her . 
But before I leave I must thank you for the pleasure I have derived from our little talk and the information as well . 
You can hardly imagine how you have interested me . 
But , out of respect for Cleggett's pistol , he stepped backward . 
You have also betrayed the fact that you planned to blow my ship up , and there are several other little matters which you have shed light upon . 
I am not a detective . 
Nevertheless , I hope in the near future to see you behind the bars and to help put you there . 
It may interest you to know that my opinion of your intellect is no higher than my opinion of your character . 
You seem to me to have a vast conceit of your own cleverness , which is not justified by the facts . 
You are a very stupid fellow a a what is the slang word ? Boob , I believe . 
But while Cleggett was finishing his remarks a subtle change stole over Loge's countenance . 
His attitude , which had been one of baffled rage , relaxed . 
As Cleggett paused the sneer came back upon Loge's lips . 
Boob , he said quietly , boob is the word . 
A sharp metallic click overhead gave point to Loge's words . 
Cleggett's own pistol was within an inch of Loge's stomach . 
I was willing to pay you real money , said Loge , for the sake of peace . 
But you're a damned fool if you think you can throw me down and then walk straight out of here to headquarters . 
Then he added , showing his yellow teeth You WOULD bring pistols into the conversation , you know . 
And now you're in a devil of a fix . 
Cleggett felt the weight of that powerful and evil soul upon his own almost as if it were a physical thing . 
You are not altogether safe yourself , said Cleggett grimly , with his eyes fixed on Pierre's and his pistol touching Loge's waistband . 
If Pierre so much as winks an eye if you move a hair's breadth I'll put a stream of bullets through YOU . 
Understand ? How long this singular psychological combat might have lasted before a nerve quivered somewhere and brought the denouement of a double death , there is no telling . 
intervened to pluck these antagonists back into life and rob the gloating Pierre of the happiness of seeing two men perish without danger to himself . 
Something of uncertain shape , but of a blue color , loomed vaguely behind Pierre's head loomed and suddenly descended to the accompaniment of a piercing shriek . 
The next instant Pierre tumbled headlong through the hole , landing upon Loge , who , not braced for the shock , went down himself . 
As the two men struggled to rise a strange figure precipitated itself from the room above , feet first , and hit both of them , knocking them down again . 
If the man was startling , he was no less startled himself . 
Loge , gaining his feet , was after the man in blue in an instant , evidently thinking no more of Cleggett than if the latter had been in Madagascar . 
And as for Cleggett , although he might have shot down Loge a dozen times over , he was so astonished at what he saw that the thought never entered his head . 
He had , in fact , forgotten that he held a pistol in his hand . 
Pierre scrambled to his feet and followed Loge . 
Cleggett , running after them , saw the man in the blue pajamas sprinting along the sandy margin of the bay . 
Loge unhesitatingly plunged after him , and had caught him by the shoulder and whirled him about before he had reached a swimming depth . 
They clinched , in water mid thigh deep , and then Cleggett saw Loge plant his fist , with scientific precision and awful force , upon the point of the other's jaw . 
Cleggett had left his sword cane in the barroom , but he judged it would be just as well to allow it to remain there for the present . 
I been tellin' him , said the Cap'n , pitching his voice shrilly above the din the workmen made , and not giving the Rev . 
Mr. Calthrop an opportunity to speak for himself , I been tellin' him it may be a long time before the Jasper B. gets to the Holy Land . 
Do you want to go to Palestine ? asked Cleggett of Mr. Calthrop , who stood with downcast eyes and fingers that worked nervously at the lapels of his rusty black coat . 
I've knowed him sence he was a boy . 
He's in disgrace , Simeon Calthrop is , shrieked the Captain , preventing the preacher from answering Cleggett's question , and scorning to answer it directly himself . 
Been kicked out of his church fur kissin' a married woman , and can't get another one . 
The preacher merely raised his eyes , which were large and brown and slightly protuberant , and murmured with a kind of brave humility It is true . 
But why do you want to go to Palestine ? said Cleggett . 
She sung in the choir and she had three children , screamed Cap'n Abernethy , and she limped some . 
Folks say she had a cork foot . 
Hey , Simeon , DID she have a cork foot ? Mr. Calthrop flushed painfully , but he forced himself courageously to answer . 
Mr. Abernethy , I do not know , he said humbly , and with the look of a stricken animal in his big brown eyes . 
He was a handsome young fellow of about thirty or he would have been handsome , Cleggett thought , had he not been so emaciated . 
Although he belonged to one of the evangelical denominations , the Rev . 
Mr. Calthrop affected clothing very like the regulation costume of the Episcopalian clergy but this clothing was now worn and torn and dusty . 
Buttons were gone here and there the knees of the unpressed trousers were baggy and beginning to be ragged , and the sole of one shoe flapped as he walked . 
He had a three days' growth of beard and no baggage . 
When Cap'n Abernethy had delivered himself and walked away , the Rev . 
Mr. Calthrop confirmed the story of his own disgrace , speaking in a low but clear voice , and with a gentle and wistful smile . 
I am one of the most miserable of sinners , Mr. Cleggett , he said . 
I have proved myself to be that most despicable thing , an unworthy minister . 
I was tempted and I fell . 
Cleggett learned that he had set himself as a punishment and a mortification the task of obtaining his daily bread by the work of his hands . 
It was his intention to make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem , refusing all assistance except that which he earned by manual labor . 
of the genuineness of his penitence , he would apply to his church for reinstatement , and ask for an appointment to some difficult mission in a wild and savage country . 
Mr. Calthrop intimated that if he chose to accept rehabilitation on less arduous terms , he might obtain it but the poignancy of his own sense of failure drove him to extremes . 
I know myself too well ! I know my own soul . 
I am cursed with a fatal magnetism which women find it impossible to resist . 
And I am continually tempted to permit it to exert itself . 
This is the cross that I bear through life . 
You should marry some good woman , said Cleggett . 
I do not feel that I am worthy , said Mr. Calthrop meekly . 
But I suppose you cannot help that . 
To each of us his destiny . 
I am prepared , until I see some evidence to the contrary , to believe your repentance to be genuine . 
In the meantime , we need a ship's chaplain . 
If your conscience permits , you may have the post combining it , however , with the vocation of a common sailor before the mast . 
I am inclined to agree with you that manual labor will do you good . 
Some time or another , in her progress around the world , the Jasper B. will undoubtedly touch at a coast within walking distance of Jerusalem . 
There we will put you ashore . 
Before we sail you can put in your time holystoning the deck . 
The deck of the Jasper B. , said Cleggett , looking at it , to all appearances , has not been holystoned for some years . 
You will find in the forecastle several holystones that have never been used , and may begin at once . 
Cleggett , if his tastes had not inclined him towards a more active and adventurous life , would have made a good bishop , for he knew how to combine justice and mercy . 
And yet few bishops have possessed his rapidity of decision , when compelled , upon the spur of the moment , to become the physician of an ailing soul . 
He had determined in a flash to make the man ship's chaplain , that Calthrop might come into close contact with other spiritual organisms and not think too exclusively of his own . 
Mr. Calthrop thanked him with becoming gratitude and departed to get the new holystones . 
Cleggett , going carefully over the vessel , and examining the new parts with a brochure on the construction and navigation of schooners in his hand , verified the statement . 
She is ready to sail , said Cleggett , standing by the new wheel with a swelling heart , and sweeping the vessel from bowsprit to rudder with a gradual glance . 
It was a look almost paternal in its pride Cleggett loved the Jasper B. She was an idea that no one else but Cleggett could have had . 
Sail ? said Mr. Watkins . 
Why not ? said Cleggett , puzzled at his tone . 
Oh , nothing , said Mr. Watkins . 
It's none of my business . 
My business was to do the work I was hired to do according to specifications . 
Further than that , nothing . 
But why did you think I was having the work done ? Can't say I thought , said Mr. Watkins . 
I took the job , and I done it . 
Had an idea mebby you were in the movin' picture game . 
Mr. Watkins , as he talked , had been regarding Cap'n Abernethy , who in turn was looking at the mainmast . 
There seemed to be something in the very way Cap'n Abernethy looked at the mainmast which jarred on Mr. Watkins . 
It's none o' MY business . 
Cleggett began to be a little annoyed . 
He may be the best in the world , for all I know . 
I never seen him sail anything . 
I never heard him play the violin , neither , for that matter , and he may be a regular jim dandy on the violin for all I know . 
You are facetious , said Cleggett stiffly . 
Meaning I ain't paid to be fresh , eh ? said Mr. Watkins . 
And right you are , too . 
And there's all that junk down in the hold to pass out and cart away . 
Cleggett personally supervised this removal , standing on the deck by the hatchway and scanning everything that was handed up . 
The character of this junk has already been described . 
But the work was three quarters done before he found what he was looking for . 
It was of substantial material and looked newer than any of the other stuff . 
Cleggett had it placed on one side of the hatchway and sat down on it . 
It was tightly nailed up all of its surfaces were sound . 
But finally the hold was as empty as a drum , and Watkins and his men departed . 
The oblong box upon which Cleggett sat was the only possible receptacle of any sort in an undamaged condition , which had been in the hold . 
He determined to have it opened in the cabin . 
He called to George and Mr. Calthrop , who , with Dr . 
Farnsworth , were forward receiving their first lecture on seamanship from Cap'n Abernethy and Kuroki , to carry the box into the cabin . 
But as George and the Rev . 
Mr. Calthrop lifted the box to their shoulders , Cleggett was startled by a loud and violent oath a veritable bellow of blasphemy that made him shudder . 
Turning , he saw than an automobile had paused in the road . 
In the forward part of the machine stood Loge , raving in an almost demoniac fury and pointing at the box . 
He writhed in the grip of three men who endeavored to restrain him . 
One of them was the sinister Pierre . 
Hoisting himself , as it were , on a mounting billow of his own profanity , Loge cast himself with a wide swimming motion of his arms from the auto . 
But one of the men clung to him they came to the ground together like tackler and tackled in a football game . 
The swish of oars and the ripple of a moving boat drew Cleggett's attention in that direction as Loge's booming threats grew fainter . 
The two oarsmen , Cleggett saw with surprise , rowed with shackled feet their feet were , indeed , chained to the boat itself . 
About the wrists of each were steel bands fixed to these bands were chains , the other ends of which were locked to their oars . 
They were , in effect , galley slaves . 
All this iron somewhat hampered their movements . 
Elmer , worn out by his many long vigils , lay asleep on the deck at the foot of the box , with an arm flung over his face . 
The stout man , after vainly endeavoring to start his oarsmen with words , took up an extra oar and began vigorously prodding them with it . 
Cleggett had not seen this man look towards the Jasper B. , but he nevertheless had the feeling that the man had missed little of what had been going on there . 
He seemed to be that kind of man . 
Cleggett saw that the boat must pass close to the Jasper B. , and leaned over the port rail . 
The man in the stern had picked up a magazine and was lolling back reading it . 
As the boat passed under him Cleggett saw on the cover page of the magazine a picture of the very man who was perusing it . 
It was a singularly urbane face both the counterfeit presentment on the cover page and the real face were smiling and calm and benign . 
Cleggett could read the legend on the magazine cover accompanying the picture . 
It ran Wilton Barnstable Tells In this Issue the Inside Story of How he Broke up the Gigantic Smuggling Conspiracy . 
At that instant the man dropped the magazine and looked Cleggett full in the face . 
He had thought Cleggett a crook , and Loge's ally . 
Loge , on the other hand , had thought Cleggett a detective . 
He had addressed him as Mr. Detective that morning at Morris's . 
Loge believed the Jasper B. and the Annabel Lee to be allied against him . 
But almost instantly he reflected that he could not do this . 
If so , he was Cleggett's enemy . 
When it came to a choice between the championship of Lady Agatha and the defiance of Wilton Barnstable , and all that he represented , Cleggett did not hesitate for an instant . 
There were still some aspects of the situation in which he found himself that were as puzzling as ever to Cleggett . 
And how Loge's men had been able to get into and out of the hold without his knowledge still perplexed him . 
The motive behind the attempt to dynamite the vessel was clear . 
Having failed to purchase it , having failed to recover the box from it , Loge had sought to destroy it with all on board . 
But the strange character of this explosion still defied his powers of analysis . 
And then there was the tenth Earl of Claiborne's signet ring on the dead hand . 
Beyond the fact that it was a circumstance which connected his fortunes with those of Lady Agatha , he could make nothing at all of the signet ring . 
What , he asked himself again and again , was the connection of the criminal gang at Morris's with the proudest Earl in England ? Loge himself was a puzzle to Cleggett . 
The man was a counterfeiter . 
The queer twenty dollar bill , which he had practically acknowledged , left no doubt of that . 
But he was more than a counterfeiter . 
Cleggett believed him to be also an anarchist . 
At least he was associated with anarchists . 
But counterfeiting and anarchy are not ordinarily found together . 
The anarchist is not a criminal in the more sordid sense . 
He is the enemy of society as at present organized . 
He considers society to be built on a thieving basis he is not himself a thief . 
He scorns and hates society , wishes to see it overturned , and believes himself superior to it . 
He will commit the most savage atrocities for the cause and cheerfully die for his principles . 
The anarchist is not a crook . 
Convinced that the unpainted oblong box would furnish a clew to the man's real personality , Cleggett , assisted by Lady Agatha and Dr . 
Farnsworth , opened it in the cabin . 
They first took out a number of plates , some broken , some intact , for the manufacture of counterfeit notes of various denominations . 
There was some of the fibrous paper used in this process . 
There was a quantity of the apparatus essential to engraving the plates . 
This stuff more than half filled the box . 
Then there were a number of books . 
Elementary textbooks , said Dr . 
Farnsworth , glancing at them . 
On the flyleaf of one of them was written in a bold , firm hand Logan Black . 
Loge or Logan Black , said Dr . 
Farnsworth , has been giving himself an education in the manufacture of high explosives . 
But THESE aren't textbooks , said Lady Agatha , who had pulled out three long , narrow volumes from the pile . 
They're in manuscript , and they look more like account books . 
The second of the manuscript books was in cipher . 
Cleggett might have deciphered it without assistance , for he was skilled in these matters , but the labor was not necessary . 
The book was for Loge's own eye . 
A loose sheet of paper folded between the leaves gave the key . 
The book showed that Loge had been employed as an expert operator , in the pay of a certain radical organization , to pull off dynamiting jobs in various parts of the country . 
This was his account book with the organization . 
He had done his work and taken his pay as methodically as a plumber might . 
And he had been paid well . 
Cleggett was astonished at the number of jobs which Loge had engineered . 
The book threw light on mysterious explosions which had occurred throughout a period of five years . 
But it was the third manuscript book which displayed the real Logan Black . 
This was also in cipher . 
Farnsworth and Cleggett had translated but a few lines of it when they perceived that it was a diary . 
With a vanity almost inconceivable to those who have not reflected upon the criminal nature , Loge had written here the tale of his own life , for his own reading . 
He had written it in loving detail . 
It was , in fact , the book in which he looked when he wished to admire himself . 
It is odd , said Cleggett , that so clever a man should write down his own story in this way . 
This book , said Farnsworth , would be a boon to a psychologist interested in criminology . 
You say it is odd . 
But with a certain type of criminal , it is almost usual . 
The human soul is full of strange impulses . 
One of the strangest is towards just this sort of record . 
Cunning , and the vanity which destroys cunning , often exist side by side . 
The criminal of a certain type almost worships himself he is profoundly impressed with his own cleverness . 
He is a braggart he swaggers he defeats himself . 
A strange idiocy mingles with his cleverness . 
Even people who are not criminals do just that sort of thing , said Lady Agatha . 
He was one of the most timid of beings . 
And he valued his place in the world mightily . 
It was an evil , a monstrous personality which leered out of Logan Black's diary . 
Boastful of his own iniquity , swaggering in his wickedness , fatuous with self love , he recounted his deeds with gusto and with particularity . 
This man , said Dr . 
Farnsworth , with a shudder , actually has the ambition to be the head of nothing less than a crime trust . 
It seems to be something more than an ambition , said Cleggett . 
It seems to be almost an accomplished fact . 
It will be interesting to see what happens in side of Heinrich when he realizes he is not an idealist , but a criminal . 
Will he stick to me on the new lay ? But those Germans are so sentimental he may commit suicide . 
Cleggett recalled the manhandling Heinrich had received . 
A little farther along he came upon this entry The Italian American boy is a find . 
Jones and Giuseppe ! Puritan father , Italian mother and he worships me ! It will be a test for my personal magnetism , the handling of Gieseppe Jones will . 
He hates a thief worse than the devil hates holy water . 
If I could make him steal for me , I would know that I could do anything . 
That's our young poet in the forecastle ! said Cleggett . 
I wonder if Loge still held him . 
And then as the memory of the boy's ravings came to him he mused Yes he held the boy ! That is what the fellow meant in his delirium . 
And then they looked at each other with a shiver . 
The sense of the strong and sinister personality of Logan Black struck on their spirits like a bleak wind . 
Cleggett was the first to recover himself . 
God willing , he said solemnly , I will bring that man to justice personally ! Just then two bells struck . 
It had taken them more time than they had realized to make even a partial examination of the contents of the box . 
Cleggett , when the bell sounded , looked at his watch to see what time it was he was still a little unfamiliar with the nautical system . 
Any length , echoed the Doctor . 
Pat upon the thought came the sound of taxicabs without . 
They went on deck and saw a sinister procession rolling by . 
It consisted of three machines , and there were three men in each cab . 
Loge and Pierre were in the foremost one . 
None of the company vouchsafed so much as a glance in the direction of the Jasper B. as the cabs whirled past towards Morris's . 
It was undoubtedly a reinforcement of gunmen . 
Ah ! said Cleggett , pointing to them . 
an attack until well after nightfall . 
Nevertheless , he began to prepare for it at once . 
He called the entire ship's company aft , with the exception of Miss Medley , who was on duty with Giuseppe Jones . 
We have opposed to us the leader of a dangerous and powerful criminal organization . 
He is , in fact , the president of a crime trust . 
He will stop at nothing to compass the destruction of the Jasper B. and all on board her . 
My quarrel with him has become , in a sense , personal . 
I have no right to ask you to share my risk unless you choose to do so voluntarily . 
Therefore , if there is anyone of you who wishes to leave the Jasper B. , let him do it now . 
But not a man moved . 
On the contrary , a little murmur of something like reproach ran around the semicircle . 
The ship's company looked in each other's eyes they stood shifting their feet uneasily . 
The boys here DOES consider themselves friends of yours , and if you was anxious to hear my opinion of it I'd say you've hurt their feelin's by your way of putting it . 
Speakin' for myself , Mr. Cleggett , as the nautical commander of this here ship to the military commander , I don't mind owning up that MY feelin's is hurt . 
Aye , aye , sir , said George the Greek , addressing the nautical commander , and the word went from lip to lip . 
Aye , aye , sir , said Dr . 
Farnsworth , the Captain speaks for us all . 
And the Reverend Mr. Calthrop remarked with a sigh You may have cause to doubt my circumspection , Mr. Cleggett , but you have no cause to doubt my courage . 
Cleggett was not the sort of man who is ashamed to acknowledge an error . 
Friends , he cried impulsively , forgive me ! I should have known better than to phrase my remarks as I did . 
I would not have hurt your feelings for worlds . 
I know you are devoted to me . 
I call for volunteers for the perilous adventure which is before us ! The ship's company stepped forward as one man . 
As if by magic the atmosphere cleared . 
Now , said Cleggett , smiling back on the enthusiastic faces before him , but inexpressibly touched by the fineness of his crew's devotion , to get to the point . 
There are seven of us , but there are at least a dozen of them . 
We have , however , the advantage in position , for we can find cover on the ship , whereas they must attack from the open . 
We must keep them at a distance , if possible . 
If they should attempt to rush us we will meet them with cutlasses and sabers . 
Also Honorable Admiral Togo's veins ! A good breeze had sprung up out of the northwest while the conference in the cabin was in progress . 
Cleggett was relieved that it was not from the south . 
The Jasper B. 's bow was pointed south , and Cleggett was naturally anxious that she should sail south . 
Having the anchors down seemed , somehow , to make things more shipshape . 
Lady Agatha was especially insistent on the point . 
Looking towards the west , Cleggett perceived the sun sinking below the horizon . 
The rising wind made the task of getting the canvas on the poles extraordinarily difficult . 
Ashore or at sea , he never permitted himself to be the slave of conventionalities . 
The Jasper B. had lain so long in one spot that it would undoubtedly take more than a capful of wind to move her . 
Cleggett did not know when he would get such a strong wind again , coming from the right direction , and determined to make the most of this one while he had it . 
Genius partly consists in the acuteness which grasps opportunities . 
Yards , sheets and sails seemed to be acting in the most singular manner . 
He could not remember reading of any parallel case in the treatises on navigation which he had perused . 
Every now and then the Cap'n or one of the crew would be jerked clean off his feet by some quick and unexpected motion of a sail and flung into the water . 
When this occurred the person who had been ducked crawled out on the bank of the canal again and went on board by way of the gangplank , returning stubbornly to his task . 
The booms in particular were possessed of a restless and unstable spirit . 
They made sudden swoops , sweeps , and dashes in all directions . 
Sometimes as many as three of the crew of the Jasper B. would be knocked to the deck or into the water by a boom at the same time . 
But Cleggett noted with satisfaction that they were plucky they stuck valiantly to the job . 
A doubt assailed Cleggett as to the competence of Cap'n Abernethy , but he was loyal and fought it down . 
Finally Cap'n Abernethy hit upon a novel and ingenious idea . 
He tied stout lines to the ends of the booms . 
The other ends of these ropes he ran through the eyes of a couple of spare anchors . 
Thus the booms were held fast and stiff in position , and the crew could get the canvas spread without being endangered by their strange and unaccountable actions . 
While the wind was in abeyance the men got the sails spread . 
Then the Captain untied the lines , brought the spare anchors on board , knocked the gangplank loose with a few blows of his ax , and waited for the wind to resume . 
When the wind did blow again it came in a gust which was accompanied by a twinkle of lightening over the whole sky and grumble of thunder . 
A whirl of dust and fine gravel enveloped the Jasper B. For a moment it was like a sandstorm . 
A few large drops of water fell . 
He was prepared for a certain stability on the part of the Jasper B. , but not for quite so much of it . 
With the next gust the storm was on them in earnest . 
This blast came with zigzag flashes of lightning that showed the heavens riotous with battalions of charging clouds it came with deafening thunder and a torrential discharge of rain . 
One would have thought the power of the wind sufficient to set a steel battleship scudding before it like a wooden shoe . 
And yet the extraordinary Jasper B. , although she shrieked and groaned and seemed to stagger with the force of the blow , did not move either forward or sidewise . 
She flinched , but she stood her ground . 
Second by second the storm increased in fury in a moment it was no longer merely a storm , it was a tempest . 
Cleggett , alarmed for the safety of his masts , now ordered his men to take in sail . 
But even as he gave the order he realized that it could no longer be done . 
A cloudburst , a hurricane , an electrical bombardment , struck the Jasper B. all at once . 
One could not hear one's own voice . 
In the glare of the lightning Cleggett saw the rigging tossing in an indescribable confusion of canvas , spars , and ropes . 
Both masts and the bowsprit snapped at almost the same instant . 
But still the unusual Jasper B. had not moved from her position . 
Cleggett's men had had warning enough to save themselves . 
They gathered around him to wait for orders . 
More than one of them cast anxious glances towards the land . 
But such was the fury of the tempest that even with the big kites gone the Jasper B. continued to shake and quiver where she lay . 
Speech was almost impossible on deck , but Cap'n Abernethy signed to Cleggett that he had something important to say to him . 
The whole company adjourned to the cabin , and there , shouting to make himself heard , the Cap'n cried out Her timbers have been strained something terrible , Mr. Cleggett . 
She ain't what I would call safe and seaworthy any more . 
The' don't seem to be any danger of her sailin' off , but that's no sign she can't be blowed over onto her beam ends and sunk with all on board . 
The old Cap'n himself was no coward . 
Indeed , in owning to his alarm he had really done a brave thing , since few have the moral courage to proclaim themselves afraid . 
But Cleggett was a man of iron . 
Although the tempest smote the hulk with blow after blow , although both earth and water seemed to lie prostrate and trampled beneath its unappeasable fury , Cleggett had no thought of yielding . 
Unconsciously he drew himself up . 
It seemed to his crew that he actually gained in girth and height . 
Cleggett , with his hand on his hip , uttered these words , not without their sublimity Whether the Jasper B. sinks or swims , her commander will share her fate . 
For his words were no more than uttered when the sharp racket of a volley of pistol shots ripped its way through the low pitched roaring of the wind . 
Loge had chosen the height of the storm to mask his approach . 
He attacked with the tempest . 
Without a word Cleggett put out the light in the cabin . 
His men grasped their weapons and followed him to the deck . 
A flash of lightning showed him , through the driving rain , the enemy rushing towards the Jasper B. , pistol in hand . 
They were scarcely sixty yards away , and were firing as they came . 
Loge , a revolver in one hand , and Cleggett's own sword cane in the other , was leading the rush . 
Besides their firearms , each of Loge's men carried a wicked looking machete . 
Let them have it , men ! And the rifles blazed from the deck of the Jasper B. in a crashing volley . 
Instantly the world was dark again it was impossible to determine whether the fire of the Jasper B. had taken effect . 
Cleggett and his men threw a second volley at this wavering silhouette of astonishment . 
A cartridge jammed in the mechanism of Cleggett's gun . 
With an oath he flung the weapon to the deck . 
A hand thrust another one into his grasp , and Lady Agatha's voice said in his ear , Take this one it's loaded . 
Drenched , bare armed , bareheaded , her hair down and rolling backward in a rich wet mass , she knelt on the deck behind the bulwark . 
Her eyes blazed with excitement , and there was a smile upon her lips . 
Beside her was the zinc bucket half full of cartridges . 
George tossed a rifle to her . 
She flung him back a loaded one , and began methodically to fill the empty one with cartridges . 
Agatha , shouted Cleggett , catching her by the wrist , go to the cabin at once you will get yourself killed ! I'll do nothing of the sort ! she shouted . 
I love you ! cried Cleggett , beside himself with fear for her , and scarcely knowing what his words were . 
Go to the cabin yourself ! she shouted in Cleggett's ear . 
She rose likewise and struggled with him in the dark . 
She wrenched herself free , and in doing so flung him back against the rail it lightened again , and she screamed . 
Cleggett stooped to pick up a gun , but as he stooped the madman vaulted over the bulwark and landed upon him , bearing him to the deck . 
As he struggled to his feet Lady Agatha , who had grasped a cutlass , cut the fellow down . 
The man fell back over the rail with a cry . 
The next instant all was dark her arms were around his neck in the rain . 
Oh , Clement , she sobbed , I've killed a man ! I've killed a man ! CHAPTER XVI ROMANCE REGNANT Cleggett kissed her . 
CHAPTER XVII MISS PRINGLE CALLS ON MR . 
CLEGGETT But the rushing onset of events struck them apart . 
Out of the night leaped danger , enhancing love and forbidding it . 
From the starboard bow Captain Abernethy shrilled a cry of warning , and the heavy , bellowing voice of Loge shouted an answer of challenge and ferocity . 
The wind had fallen , but the lightning played from the clouds now almost without intermission . 
Cleggett saw Loge and his followers , machete in hand , flinging themselves at the rail . 
They lifted a hoarse cheer as they came . 
The fire from the Jasper B. had checked the assault temporarily it had not broken it up once they found lodgment on the deck the superior numbers of Loge's crowd must inevitably tell . 
Loge was a dozen feet in advance of his men . 
He had cast aside the light sword which belonged to Cleggett , and now swung a grim machete in his hand . 
Cleggett flung down his gun , grasped a cutlass , and sprang forward , his one idea to come to close quarters with that gigantic figure of rage and power . 
For a moment they paused , with weapons uplifted , and stared . 
Where an enemy had been , there was nothing . 
So doubtful Greeks or Trojans might have paused and stared upon the plains of Ilion when some splenetic and fickle deity burst unannounced and overwhelming into the central clamor of the battle . 
But it is in these seconds of pause and doubt that great commanders assert themselves it is these electric seconds from which the hero gathers his vital lightning and forges his mordant bolt . 
Genius claims and rules these instants , and the gods are on the side of those who boldly grasp loose wisdom and bind it into sheaves of judgment . 
was the first to recover his poise . 
He came to his decision instantaneously . 
A lesser man might have lost all by rushing after his retreating enemies a lesser man , carried away by excitement , would have pursued . 
Cleggett did not relax his grasp upon the situation , he restrained his ardor . 
Stand firm , men ! Do not leave the ship , he shouted . 
The day is ours ! And then , turning to Captain Abernethy , he cried We have routed them ! Look at them crazy horses ! screamed the Captain in reply . 
The animals were rearing and struggling among the ruins of the broken gangplank . 
A negro driver , whom Cleggett now noticed for the first time , shot clear of the mass and landed on the deck in a sitting posture . 
For a moment , there he sat , and did nothing more . 
The pole broke loose from the carriage , the traces parted , and the two big white horses , still kicking and plunging , struggled to their feet and free from the wreckage . 
Cleggett never saw or heard of them again . 
Bring a lantern , said Cleggett to Abernethy . 
Let's see if this man is badly hurt . 
But the negro was not injured . 
He was in a blue livery , and his high , cockaded coachman's hat had stayed on his head in spite of everything . 
Even sitting down on the deck he had possessed an air of patience . 
When he arose and the Captain flashed the light upon his face , it revealed a countenance full of dignified good humor . 
Where did you come from ? asked Cleggett . 
The negro removed the hat with the cockade before answering . 
But he did not do it hastily . 
He had the air of one who was never inclined to do things hastily . 
From Newahk , sah , he said . 
Newahk , New Jehsey , sah . 
But who are you ? said Cleggett . 
How did you get here ? The negro was gazing reflectively at the broken carriage . 
Ah yo' Mistah Cleggett , sah ? Mistah Clement J. Cleggett , sah , the ownah of dis hyeah boat ? Yes . 
The negro fumbled in an inner pocket and produced a card . 
He gave it to Cleggett with a deferential bow , and then announced sonorously Miss Genevieve Pringle , sah in de cah age , sah a callin' on Mistah Clement J. Cleggett . 
He completed the announcement with a dignified and courtly gesture , which seemed to indicate that he was presenting the ruined carriage itself to Cleggett . 
You don't mean in that carriage ? cried Cleggett . 
Yes , sah , said the negro . 
Leas'ways , she was , sah , some time back . 
He glanced speculatively at the carriage again . 
Cleggett sprang towards the broken vehicle , expecting to find someone seriously injured at the very least . 
I hopes an' trusts , Miss Pringle , ma'am , yo' ain't suffered none in yo' anatomy an' phlebotomy from dis hyeah runaway . 
With which cheerful wish Jefferson lifted respectfully , and with a certain calm detachment , the figure of a woman from the debris . 
Thank you , Jefferson , she said . 
I fear I am very much bruised and shaken , but I have been feeling all my bones while lying there , and I believe that I have sustained no fractures . 
Miss Pringle was a woman of about fifty , small and prim . 
Prim with an unconquerable primness that neither storm nor battle nor accident could shake . 
If she had been killed in the runaway she would have looked prim in death while awaiting the undertaker . 
Ah ! Miss Pringle inspected him with an eye which gleamed with a hint of latent possibilities of belligerency . 
Mr. Cleggett , she continued , pursing her lips , I have sought an interview to warn you that you are harboring an impostor on your ship . 
At that moment Lady Agatha joined the group . 
As the light fell upon her Miss Pringle stepped forward and thrust an accusing , a denunciatory finger at the Englishwoman . 
You , she said , call yourself Lady Agatha Fairhaven ! I do , said Lady Agatha . 
Woman ! cried Miss Pringle , shaking with the stress of her moral wrath . 
Where are my plum preserves ? And with this cryptic utterance the little lady , having come to the end of her strength , primly fainted . 
Jefferson picked her up and carried her , in a serene and stately manner , to the cabin . 
CHAPTER XVIII THE MAN IN THE BLUE PAJAMAS The rain had ceased almost as Miss Pringle was removed to the cabin . 
A few stars were visible here and there . 
And then in a moment more a full moon rose high and serene above the world . 
The May moon is often very brilliant in these latitudes , as sailors who are familiar with the coasts of Long Island can testify . 
This moon was unusually brilliant , even for the season of the year and the quarter of the globe . 
almost possible to read by it . 
Lady Agatha had gone into the cabin to resuscitate Miss Pringle and , as she said , have it out with her . 
Cleggett , gazing from the deck towards Morris's , in the strong moonlight , wondered when the attack would be renewed . 
He thought , on the whole , that it was improbable that Loge would return to the assault while this brightness continued . 
Suddenly three figures appeared within his range of vision . 
But running slowly , painfully , lamely . 
They were shackled wrist to wrist now . 
To the left leg of one of them was attached a heavy ball . 
A similar ball was attached to the right leg of the other . 
They had picked these balls up and were struggling along under their weight at a gait which was more like a staggering walk than a trot . 
They were pursued by the man whom Cleggett had seen attempt to escape from Morris's . 
This man still wore his suit of baby blue pajamas . 
He moved as if the ground hurt his bare feet . 
He especially favored , as Cleggett noticed , the foot on which there was a bunion . 
He crept rather than ran . 
But he seemed bitterly intent upon reaching the two men in irons who labored along twenty or thirty feet ahead of him . 
And they , on their part , casting now and then backward glances over their shoulders at their pursuer . 
Cleggett divined that the men in irons had escaped from the Annabel Lee , and that the man in the baby blue pajamas was loose from Morris's . 
But why the man in the pajamas pursued and the others fled he could not guess . 
The man in the baby blue pajamas was cursing in a high pitched , nasal , querulous voice . 
Cleggett noticed with astonishment that a single barreled eyeglass was screwed into one of his eyes . 
Occasionally it dropped to the ground , and he would stop and fumble for it and wipe it on his wet sleeve and replace it . 
Had it not been for these stops he would have overtaken the men in irons . 
Clement ! Lady Agatha laid her hand upon his arm . 
Miss Pringle wants to see you in the cabin . 
Well imposter ! laughed Cleggett . 
And she went aft with him . 
Her appearance was scarcely conventional , and she seemed to feel it nevertheless , she had a duty to perform , and her innate propriety still triumphed over her situation and habiliments . 
He and Lady Agatha exchanged glances . 
What do you think it contains ? he asked . 
Deny it if you can ! I do deny it , Miss Pringle , said Lady Agatha , accompanying her words with a winsome smile . 
But Miss Pringle was not to be won over so easily as all that she met the smile with a look of steady reprobation . 
And then she turned to Cleggett again . 
Mr. Cleggett , she said , my birthday occurred a few days ago . 
It was I have nothing to conceal , Mr. Cleggett it was my forty ninth birthday . 
Every year , for many years past , a niece of mine who lives in Flatbush sends me on my birthday a box of plum preserves . 
They have a sentimental value as well . 
I was born in Flatbush , and lived there , during my youth , on my father's estate . 
The city has since grown around the old place , which my niece now owns , but the plum trees stand as they have stood for more than fifty years . 
It was beneath these plum trees . 
Miss Pringle suddenly broke off her face twitched she felt for a handkerchief , and found none she wiped her eyes on her sleeve . 
I will conceal nothing , Mr. Cleggett . 
It was under these plum trees that I once received an offer of marriage from a worthy young man . 
It was from one of these plum trees that he later fell , injuring himself so that he died . 
You can understand what these plum trees mean to me , perhaps ? Lady Agatha impulsively sat down beside the elder woman and put her arm about her . 
But Miss Pringle stiffly moved away . 
After a moment she continued The preserved plums , as I have said , are sent me every year on my birthday . 
This year , when I received from my niece a notification that they had been shipped , I called for the box personally at the freight office . 
What was my astonishment to learn that the box had been claimed in my name , not a quarter of an hour before , and taken away . 
I obtained a description of the person who had represented herself as Miss Genevieve Pringle , and of the vehicle in which she had carried off my box . 
The paltriness of the theft revolted me , Mr. Cleggett , and I determined to bring this person to justice . 
The fugitive , with my plum preserves in her possession , had left , goodness knows , a broad enough trail . 
I found but little difficulty in following in my family carriage . 
In fact , Mr. Cleggett , I discovered the very chauffeur who had deposited her here with the box . 
Inquiries in Fairport gave me your name as the owner of this lighter . 
The Jasper B. , madam , is not a lighter . 
I beg your pardon , said Miss Pringle . 
But what sort of vessel is it then ? The Jasper B. , said Cleggett , with a touch of asperity , is a schooner , madam . 
I intended no offense , Mr. Cleggett . 
I am quite willing to believe that the vessel is a schooner , since you say that it is . 
I am not informed concerning nautical affairs . 
But , to conclude I discovered from the chauffeur that this lady , calling herself Lady Agatha Fairhaven , had been deposited here , with my box . 
I learned yesterday , after inquiries in Fairport , that you were the owner of this vessel . 
The real estate person from whom you purchased it assured me that you were financially responsible . 
I came to expose this imposter and to recover my box . 
On my way hither I was caught in the storm . 
The runaway occurred , and you know the rest . 
Miss Pringle , during this recital , had not deigned to favor Lady Agatha with a look . 
Lady Agatha , on her part , after the rebuff which she had received , had sat in smiling silence . 
With Cleggett's assistance Lady Agatha removed the cover from the oblong box , and showed her its contents . 
That explains nothing , said Miss Pringle , dryly . 
Of course you would remove the plum preserves to a place of safety . 
Miss Pringle , said Lady Agatha , I will tell you everything . 
And Lady Agatha began to relate to Miss Pringle the same story which she had told to Cleggett . 
At the first word indicative of the fact the Lady Agatha had suffered for the cause of votes for women , a change took place in the expression of Miss Pringle's countenance . 
Cleggett thought she was about to speak . 
Nevertheless , although she listened intently , some of her rigidity had gone . 
She drew therefrom a letter , and passed it over without a word . 
As Miss Pringle read it , her face lighted up . 
She did not lose her primness , but her suspicion seemed altogether to depart . 
A letter from Emmeline Pankhurst ! she said , in a hushed voice , handling the missive as if it were a sacred relic . 
Can you ever forgive me ? There is nothing to forgive , beamed Lady Agatha . 
I am willing to admit , now that you understand me , that the thing looked a bit suspicious , on the face of it . 
You have suffered for the cause , said Miss Pringle . 
I have suffered for it , too ! And , with a certain shyness , she patted Lady Agatha on the arm . 
But the next moment she said But what IS in the box you brought here then , Lady Agatha ? Two boxes were shipped to Newark , addressed to me . 
Which one did you get ? What is really in the one you have been carrying around ? My plum preserves , or She shuddered and left the sentence unfinished . 
Let us open it , said Cleggett . 
No ! No ! cried Lady Agatha . 
Clement , no ! I could not bear to have it opened . 
It was evident that a bit of her earlier suspicion had returned . 
After all , said Miss Pringle , indicating the letter again , how do I know that That it is not a forgery ? said Lady Agatha . 
She mused a moment , and then said , with a sigh , Well , then , let us open the box ! I think it best , Agatha , said Cleggett . 
I shall have it brought down . 
But even as he turned upon his heel to go on deck and give the order , Dr . 
Simeon Calthrop ran excitedly down the cabin companionway . 
The young Doctor was right the box , which had stood on the larboard side of the cabin , had disappeared . 
It might have been blown into the canal during the storm , suggested the Rev . 
All of the crew of the Jasper B. knew Lady Agatha's story , and were aware of the importance of the box . 
It was on the lee side of the cabin , objected Dr . 
If you was to ask me , said Cap'n Abernethy , who had joined in the discussion , I'd give it as MY opinion it's a good riddance of bad rubbish . 
Rubbish ? said Miss Pringle . 
Rubbish , indeed ! I am confident that that box contained my plum preserves ! It has been stolen ! cried Cleggett , with conviction . 
Loge has outgeneraled me , murmured Cleggett , well nigh frantic with self reproach . 
While he made the attack in front , he sent some of his men to the rear of the vessel and it was quietly made off with while we were fighting . 
Had the disappearance of the box concerned himself alone Cleggett's sense of disaster might have been less poignant . 
But the thought that his own carelessness had enabled the enemy to get possession of a thing likely to involve Lady Agatha in further trouble was nearly insupportable . 
He gritted his teeth and clenched his hands in impotent rage . 
No doubt Loge caught sight of it during the early part of the skirmish , by a flash of lightning , said Dr . 
Farnsworth , and acted as you suggest , Mr. Cleggett . 
He had suddenly leaned over the port rail and was staring down the canal . 
The others followed his gaze . 
The house boat Annabel Lee , they perceived , had got under weigh , and was slowly approaching the Jasper B. in the moonlight . 
They watched her gradual approach in silence . 
Is Mr. Cleggett on board ? He is speaking . 
Mr. Cleggett , have you lost anything from your canal boat ? Cleggett did not answer , and for a moment he did not move . 
The great detective , on his part , also stepped ashore . 
They stood and faced each other in the moonlight , silently , and their followers , also in silence , gathered in the bows of the respective vessels and watched them . 
Finally , Cleggett , with one hand on his hip , and standing with his feet wide apart , said very incisively Sir , the Jasper B. is NOT a canal boat . 
Eh ? Wilton Barnstable started at the emphasis . 
The Jasper B. , pursued Cleggett , staring steadily at Wilton Barnstable , is a schooner . 
Ah ! said the other . 
And the tension relaxed on both ships . 
You have lost an oblong box , Mr. Cleggett . 
The great detective affirmed it rather than interrogated . 
How did you know that ? The other laughed . 
We know a great many things it is our business to know things , he said . 
I knew you , said Cleggett . 
The other appeared disappointed for a moment . 
And then he inquired anxiously , How did you know me ? Why , from your pictures in the magazines , said Cleggett . 
I will not mystify you , Mr. Cleggett , about the box . 
Mystification is one of the tricks of the older schools of detection . 
I never practice it , Mr. Cleggett . 
With me , the detection of crime is a business yes , a business . 
I will tell you presently how the box came into my possession . 
It IS in your possession ? Cleggett felt a dull pang of the heart . 
If the box of Reginal Maltravers were in the hands of Logan Black he could at least trade the other oblong box to Loge for it , and thus save Lady Agatha . 
Suppose I bring the box on board the Jasper B. , suggested the great detective . 
It interests me , that box . 
I have no doubt it has its story . 
And perhaps , while you are telling me some things about it , I may be able to give you some information in turn . 
There was no mistaking the fact that the man , whether genuinely friendly or no , wished to appear so . 
Have it brought into my cabin , said Cleggett , and we will discuss it . 
In the light of the cabin the three detectives were revealed as startlingly alike . 
Barton Ward and Watson Bard , Barnstable's two assistants , might , indeed , almost have been taken for Barnstable himself , at a casual glance . 
In height , in bulk , in dress , in facial expression , they seemed Wilton Barnstable all over again . 
But , looking intently at the three men , Cleggett began to perceive a difference between the real Wilton Barnstable and his two counterfeits . 
It was the difference between the face which is informed of genius , and the countenance which is indicative of mere talent . 
Mr. Cleggett , began Wilton Barnstable , as I said before , I will make no attempt to mystify you . 
I was a witness to the attack upon your vessel . 
Mr. Ward , Mr. Bard , and myself , in fact , had determined to assist you , had we seen that the combat was going against you . 
We lay , during the struggle , in the lee of your your er , schooner ! in the lee of your schooner , armed , and ready to bear a hand . 
We have our own little matter to settle with Logan Black . 
Why Logan Black should desire possession of this particular box , I am unable to state . 
They let themselves down into the water , and swam towards the mouth of the canal , pushing it ahead of them . 
We followed in our rowboat , Mr. Ward , Mr. Bard , and myself , at a discreet distance . 
We let them push the box as far south as the Annabel Lee . 
And then He paused a moment , and smiled reminiscently . 
Barton Ward and Watson Bard also smiled reminiscently , and the three detectives exchanged crafty glances . 
Then , to be brief , we took the box away from them . 
They were so ill advised as to struggle . 
They are in irons , now , on board the Annabel Lee . 
But what I cannot understand , Mr. Cleggett , is why these men should risk so much to make off with an empty box . 
An empty box ! cried Cleggett . 
Empty ! echoed Lady Agatha and Miss Pringle , in concert . 
The detective wrenched the cover from the box of Reginald Maltravers . 
Practically empty , at any rate , he said . 
And , indeed , except for a few wads of wet excelsior , there was nothing in the box of Reginald Maltravers . 
So did Barton Ward and Watson Bard . 
The benign smile which was so characteristic of Wilton Barnstable never left the three faces , but it was evident to Cleggett that these trained intelligences grasped and weighed and ticketed every detail . 
While Cleggett narrates , and Wilton Barnstable and his men listen , a word to the reader concerning this great detective . 
CHAPTER XX THE PSYCHOLOGICAL DETECTIVE Wilton Barnstable was the inventor of a new school of detection of crime . 
The system came in with him , and it may go out with him for lack of a man of his genius to perpetuate it . 
He insisted that there was nothing spectacular or romantic in the pursuit of the criminal , or , at least , that there should be nothing of the sort . 
And he was especially disgusted when anyone referred to him as a second Sherlock Holmes . 
I am only a plain business man , he would insist , urbanely , with a wave of his hand . 
I have merely brought order , method , system , business principles , logic , to the detection of crime . 
I know nothing of romance . 
Romance is usually all nonsense in my estimation . 
The real detective , who gets results in real life , is NOT a Sherlock Holmes . 
The enemies of Wilton Barnstable sometimes said of him that he was jealous of Sherlock Holmes . 
Perhaps he saw it and was thrilled with it even while he denied it . 
At any rate , he lived in the midst of it . 
The realism which was his metier was that sort of realism into which are woven facts and incidents of the most bizarre and startling nature . 
And , certainly , behind the light blue eyes that could look with such apparent ingenuousness out of his plump , bland face there was the subtle mind of a psychologist . 
Barnstable , true to his attitude of the plain business man , would have been the first to ridicule the idea publicly if anyone had dubbed him the psychological detective . 
That , to his mind , would have savored of charlatanism . 
He would have said I am nothing so strange and mystifying as that I am a plain business man . 
But in reality there was no new discovery of the investigating psychologists of which he did not avail himself at once . 
His ability to clothe himself with the thoughts of the criminal as an actor clothes himself with a role , was marvelous he knew the criminal soul . 
That is to say , he knew the human soul . 
He refused to see anything extraordinary in this . 
It is only my business to know such things , he would say . 
It is our business to know them . 
There is no miracle about it . 
This was the public character he had created for himself , and emphasized that of the plain business man . 
He was so subtle that he hid the vast range of his powers behind an appearance of commonplaceness . 
Wilton Barnstable never disguised himself , in the ordinary sense of the term . 
That is , he never resorted to false whiskers or wigs or obvious tricks of that sort . 
But if Wilton Barnstable were to walk into a convention of blacksmiths , let us say , he would quite escape attention . 
For before he had been ten minutes in that gathering he would become , to all appearances , the typical blacksmith . 
If he were to enter a gathering of bankers , or barbers , or bakers , or organ grinders , or stockbrokers , or school teachers , a similar thing would happen . 
He could make himself the composite photograph of all the individuals of any group . 
He disguised himself from the inside out . 
This art of becoming inconspicuous was one of his greatest assets as a detective . 
Newspaper and magazine writers would have liked to dwell upon it . 
But he requested them not to emphasize it . 
The front which he presented to the world was , in reality , his cleverest creation . 
A personality with a touch of smugness in it . 
This was very generally thought to be the real Wilton Barnstable . 
It was a fiction which he had succeeded in establishing . 
When he addressed meetings , talked with reporters , wrote articles about himself , or came into touch with the public in any manner , he assumed this personality . 
When he did not wish to be known he laid it aside . 
When he desired to pass incognito , therefore , it was not necessary for him to assume a disguise . 
The two men with him , Barton Ward and Watson Bard , were his cleverest agents . 
They were learning from the master detective the art of looking like other people , and were at present practicing by looking like the popular conception of Wilton Barnstable . 
But Barton Ward and Watson Bard were , as Cleggett had felt at once , only men of extraordinary talent , while Wilton Barnstable was a genius . 
As Cleggett talked he was given a rather startling proof of Wilton Barnstable's gift . 
He was astonished to find a change stealing over Wilton Barnstable's features . 
Subtly the detective began to look like someone else . 
The expression of the face , the turn of the eyes , the lines about the mouth , began to suggest someone whom Cleggett knew . 
It was rather a suggestion , an impression , than a likeness it was rather the spirit of a personality than a definite resemblance . 
It was a psychic thing . 
Barnstable was disguising himself from the inside out he had assumed the mental and spiritual clothing of someone else . 
Cleggett could not think at first who it was that Wilton Barnstable suggested . 
But presently he saw that it was himself . 
He glanced at Barton Ward and Watson Bard they still resembled the popular conception of Wilton Barnstable . 
Gradually the look of Cleggett faded from Wilton Barnstable's face . 
It changed , it shifted , that look did Cleggett almost cried out as he saw the face of Wilton Barnstable become an impressionistic portrait of the soul of Logan Black . 
He looked at Barton Ward . 
Barton Ward was now looking like Wilton Barnstable's conception of Cleggett . 
But Watson Bard , less facile and less creative , still clung stolidly to the popular conception of Wilton Barnstable . 
But , even as Cleggett looked , this remarkable exhibition ceased the Wilton Barnstable look dominated the faces again . 
Yes , such was the genius of Wilton Barnstable that he could at will impose himself upon people as the apotheosis of the commonplace . 
It was almost second nature to him now . 
His urbane smile was the only visible sign of his own enjoyment of this habitual feat . 
Wretches indeed , said Wilton Barnstable , Barton Ward , and Watson Bard , in unison , and with conviction . 
And the man in the baby blue silk pajamas , was the great detective paused , as if to make his revelation more effective . 
The man in pajamas was Reginald Maltravers , finished the great detective . 
Reginald Maltravers ! cried Lady Agatha . 
She opened her mouth again as if to say something more , but words failed her , and she only stared at the detective , with parted lips and round eyes . 
Cleggett went to her and touched her on the arm , and with the touch she gave a sob of emotion and found her tongue again . 
Reginald Maltravers , she said , is not dead then ! Not dead after all ! She endeavored to control herself , but for a moment or two she trembled . 
It was evident that it was all she could do to keep from crying hysterically with relief . 
The nightmare that had haunted her for days had vanished almost too suddenly . 
Presently she began to be herself again . 
You are sure that he is not dead ? she said with a voice that still shook . 
Sure , said Wilton Barnstable . 
And as if quietly satisfied with the sensation they had produced , the three detectives smiled at each other urbanely and contentedly . 
Barnstable continued Reginald Maltravers came to my agency some days ago and requested a bodyguard . 
Dopey Eddie and Izzy the Cat had attacked him , no doubt intending to earn the money which Elmer had promised them . 
In fact , he caned them soundly . 
But they still continued to dog him . 
Mr. Ward here , who handled the case , soon reported to me that he believed Reginald Maltravers to be insane . 
Insane he was , cried Lady Agatha . 
I have seen the light of insanity in his eye , gleaming through his accursed monocle . 
Now that she knew the man to be alive , her hatred of him had flared up again . 
Insane he was , agreed Wilton Barnstable . 
And shortly after that discovery was made , he disappeared . 
The next day after his disappearance , Dopey Eddie and Izzy the Cat were liberally supplied with money . 
Of course they got the money , Lady Agatha , through the clever trick they worked upon you . 
A great many people have got money from me since I have been in America , said Lady Agatha . 
Ah ! Yes ? The great detective went on with his masterly summing up . 
Of course they got the money from the trick they worked on Lady Agatha . 
But at the time I thought it possible that they had robbed Reginald Maltravers and then put him out of the way . 
They are well known gunmen . 
I took them into custody and determined to hold them until such time as Reginald Maltravers would be found , or his fate discovered . 
Eventually I brought them with me on my house boat . 
I was really holding them without due legal warrant , but I am forced to do that , sometimes . 
They complained of lack of exercise , so I gave them exercise in the manner which you saw the other morning , Mr. Cleggett . 
One of my agents , shortly after this , picked up the trail of Reginald Maltravers again . 
When I learned that he was alive my first impulse was to release Dopey Eddie and Izzy the Cat . 
So I kept them on my boat . 
Reginald Maltravers , most of the time that you were riding about the country , Lady Agatha , with the box that you thought contained him , was really following you . 
He would lose your trail and find it again , but he was always some hours behind you . 
Of course , he knew nothing of the oblong box . 
He thought that you were running away from him . 
And all the time that Reginald Maltravers was following you , agents of mine were following Reginald Maltravers . 
Lady Agatha , interrupted Cleggett , was also being pursued by Miss Pringle here . 
Wilton Barnstable carefully made a note in a little book which he drew from his waistcoat pocket . 
The notes made , the three detectives once more smiled craftily at each other , and Wilton Barnstable resumed We knew , of course , that another lady was also following Lady Agatha . 
But , until the present moment , we had not identified her with Miss Pringle . 
And I should not be at all surprised , not at ALL surprised , if still another person had been following Miss Pringle . 
With what object ? asked Miss Pringle , looking alarmed at the idea . 
The motive , my dear lady , I must for the present withhold , said Wilton Barnstable . 
And again the three detectives exchanged knowing glances . 
Reginald Maltravers' pursuit of you , Lady Agatha , led him to Fairport , went on the great sleuth . 
Logan Black , knowing that the authorities were on his trail , mistook Reginald Maltravers for a detective , and held him prisoner at Morris's . 
Logan Black's men took away his clothes in order to minimize the possibility of his escape . 
And the Earl of Claiborne's signet ring began Cleggett . 
Of course , Reginald Maltravers was wearing it , and of course they took his valuables from him , said Barnstable . 
One of the ruffians was wearing the ring as he approached your vessel with a bomb . 
But , Mr. Cleggett , there are points about that bomb explosion which I do not understand . 
Nor I , admitted Cleggett . 
We will clear them up later , said the great detective , smiling benignly at his thumbs , which he was revolving slowly about each other as he reconstructed the case . 
Later ! smiled Barton Ward . 
Later ! murmured Watson Bard . 
With their hands clasped over their stomachs , they , too , benignly twirled their thumbs . 
It was just before the storm began , and they were sitting on the bank of the canal at the time . 
I allowed them to sit there in the evenings and get the fresh air . 
He had recognized them as the men who had dogged and assaulted him , and every other idea was obliterated in his desire for vengeance . 
He caught them , and they fought . 
They succeeded in dropping one of the iron balls on his foot on his bunion foot , Mr. Cleggett crippling him . 
As this mention of the bunion , Miss Genevive Pringle arose with dignity , and , flinging a shawl about her shoulders , left the cabin , chin in air . 
H'm , mused the detective , flushing slightly and Watson Bard and Barton Ward also colored a little , and looked hacked . 
They glanced furtively at Lady Agatha , to see if she too might be offended . 
Proceed , Mr. Barnstable , she said a little impatiently . 
Bunions don't bother me , either mentally or physically . 
I am familiar with the idea of bunions . 
There are many bunions in the Claiborne family . 
On his bunion foot , crippling him , resumed the detective , reassured . 
The storm came up , and still the gunmen fled , and still Reginald Maltravers pursued . 
I suppose , since you saw them on the west side of the canal , Mr. Cleggett , that they had run around the north end of it . 
Probably , while you and Logan Black were fighting , they were running up and down in the neighborhood , in the storm , intent only upon their own feud . 
They certainly seemed exhausted when I saw them , said Cleggett , all three of them . 
But if you will permit me to say so , the astuteness with which you are reconstructing this case compels my admiration . 
Wilton Barnstable bowed , and Barton Ward and Watson Bard slightly inclined their heads . 
Your skill , said Lady Agatha , is equal to that of Sherlock Holmes . 
At the name of Sherlock Holmes a shade passed over the face of Wilton Barnstable . 
He slightly compressed his lips , and his eyebrows went up a fraction of an inch . 
This shade was reflected on the faces of Barton Ward and Watson Bard . 
It may interest you to know that smuggling has been one of his side lines . 
There is , somewhere hereabouts , a cave in which smuggled goods are stored . 
These coasts have a sinister history , Mr. Cleggett . 
It is possible that your canal boat I beg your pardon , your schooner , Mr. Cleggett played some part in their smuggling operations . 
The Jasper B. has been lying in her present position for a long time . 
In the event that a sudden get away from Morris's became necessary , it was an advantage to Logan Black to be able to leave without being hampered with this matter . 
Abernethy ? Truck farmer , repeated Wilton Barnstable . 
Is not Abernethy an old sea captain ? asked Cleggett . 
Why , no , I believe not , said Barnstable . 
At least I never heard so . 
He is well known as a small truck gardener in this neighborhood . 
It is true that he comes of a seafaring family indeed , it is his boast . 
But , in a community where nearly everyone knows a little about boats , I believe that Abernethy is remarkable for an indisposition to venture far from shore . 
I can scarcely believe it , breathed Cleggett . 
He does not understand boats , said Barnstable . 
And even although he may have had little actual seafaring experience , the instinct is in him ! The inherited love of a nautical life has been latent in him all along . 
And at the first opportunity it has come out . 
He has shown his mettle aboard the Jasper B. I do not doubt it , if you insist upon it , said Wilton Barnstable , politely . 
And from revolving his thumbs benignly towards himself he began to revolve them urbanely from himself . 
The reversal was imitated at once by Barton Ward , but Watson Bard was slower in putting this new coup into execution . 
The resemblance between the two oblong boxes evidently fooled Logan Black , continued Barnstable , and his men stole the wrong one . 
but he knows by this time that his plan to get the box has failed . 
He knows it ? said Cleggett . 
From the bank of the canal he witnessed our capture of the box , and of the two men who were making off with it . 
He was alone , but he attempted to come to the assistance of his two followers even as we made them prisoners . 
In fact , we exchanged shots . 
The great detective made little of the danger he had encountered . 
Indeed , his smile became one of amusement as he removed his coat , rolled up his shirt sleeves , and exhibited a bandaged wound in the fleshy part of his arm . 
It is only a slight wound , he said , beaming on it as if wounds were quite delightful affairs , and scarcely inconveniences me . 
Barton Ward and Watson Bard , with their sleeves rolled up , were also smiling placidly and indulgently at bandages about their left arms . 
Whether there were real wounds beneath their bandages also , Cleggett could not determine . 
The bandage of Barton Ward was slightly stained with red , but the bandage of Watson Bard was quite white . 
All three replaced their coats at the same time , and Wilton Barnstable went on Our course of procedure is plain , Mr. Cleggett . 
We have the evidence against Logan Black . 
We must have the man himself . 
I depend upon you to cooperate with me . 
But I am shaping up my theory about that ! I am shaping it up ! Would it be indescreet to inquire just what your theory is ? asked Cleggett . 
And Lady Agatha murmured For my part , I can make nothing of it , and I should be glad to hear your theory . 
It would , said Wilton Barnstable , soberly , it would be premature , if I told you my theory at the present moment . 
You must pardon me but it WOULD . 
But do not get the notion , Mr. Cleggett , that I underestimate the part that you have taken in the case of Logan Black . 
You have helped me , Mr. Cleggett . 
When I have my secretary prepare the case of Logan Black for magazine and newspaper publication I shall have your name mentioned as that of a person who has helped me . 
Yes , you have helped me . 
He appeared to be marking off the space beside the portrait into an arrangement of letters and spaces . 
Barton Ward and Watson Bard , slightly flushed and a little excited in spite of themselves , seemed also to see it there . 
And Barton Ward and Watson Bard also bent upon him their bland and friendly regard . 
Cleggett was about to thank them , but at that moment there was a commotion of some sort on deck . 
My niece , Miss Henrietta Pringle , of Flatbush , said Miss Pringle , primly presenting her prim relation . 
She has just arrived With the plum preserves ! cried Lady Agatha . 
With the plum preserves , confirmed Miss Genevieve Pringle . 
The three detectives stood and looked at the three boxes with an air of great satisfaction . 
With this addition to our oblong boxes , said Wilton Barnstable , their number is now complete . 
Miss Henrietta Pringle , we will listen to your story . 
There was little to tell , and Miss Henrietta Pringle told it in a breath . 
The proceeding was very strange it was very unlike my aunt , and I was frightened . 
Everyone who had seen her start testified that she was laboring under a great nervous strain of some sort . 
I called at the freight depot and got the box of plum preserves which I had shipped to her . 
To tell the truth , I feared for her reason . 
So , setting out to search for her in my Ford auto , I took the box of plum preserves with me . 
I soon got upon her trail . 
The negro coachman , the family carriage and the white horses had excited remark everywhere . 
Briefly , I traced her here , and am happy to discover that my worst fears with regard to her have proved false . 
Henrietta , said her aunt , reproachfully , your fears do you very little credit , or me either . 
Aunt Genevieve , said the niece , pray , do not rebuke me . 
I was certain , said Wilton Barnstable , complacently , that it would develop that Miss Genevieve Pringle was herself being pursued . 
I was confident of it , Cleggett . 
We must get together , said Cleggett , on a plan of campaign . 
Logan Black will certainly attack again . 
He has only been beaten off temporarily . 
In the meanwhile , it is almost breakfast time . 
And , indeed , the lights in the cabin were suddenly growing pale . 
No one felt the least doubt that Logan Black would renew the attack sooner or later , unless the two vessels made off . 
And , said Cleggett , I shall not leave until the Jasper B. has been rigged as a schooner again . 
Anything else would have the appearance of a retreat . 
Nor will I be hurried . 
I am on my own property , and I purpose to defend it at whatever cost . 
He set his jaws firmly as he declared this intention , and Lady Agatha's eyes dwelt upon him in admiration . 
The Annabel Lee could tow you away , you know , demurred Wilton Barnstable . 
When the Jasper B. moves , said Cleggett , with finality , it will be under her own power . 
Accordingly , work was begun at once on the entrenchments . 
Everyone on board the Jasper B. was sadly in need of sleep , but Cleggett felt that the earthworks could not wait . 
He divided his force into two shifts . 
The two prisoners captured by Barnstable the night before , one of whom was the smirking and sinister Pierre , were compelled to dig all the time . 
Even Teddy , Lady Agatha's little Pomeranian , dug . 
The ladies of the party slept throughout the morning . 
During the forenoon Cleggett dispatched Dr . 
Farnsworth to the city in Miss Henrietta Pringle's Ford car , and he returned about one o'clock with four more trained nurses . 
They were installed on board the houseboat Annabel Lee , instead of at Parker's Beach as Cleggett had originally intended , and the Red Cross flag was hoisted over that vessel . 
Cleggett had not slept much during the past forty eight hours , but he was a man of iron . 
Like King Henry Fifth of England , Cleggett found a certain pleasure in watching while his troops slumbered . 
Cleggett and this lively monarch had other points in common , although Cleggett , even in his youth , would never have associated with a character so habitually dissolute as Sir John Falstaff . 
The construction of the trench was not without its effect upon the gang of villains at Morris's . 
About nine in the morning Cleggett noticed that he was under observation from the roof of the east verandah of the road house . 
Loge and two of his ruffianly lieutenants were scrutinizing the Cleggett flotilla and fortifications through their binoculars . 
Cleggett , through his own glass , returned the compliment . 
The three men were conducting an animated discussion . 
From their gestures they seemed to be completely nonplussed by the entrenchments . 
Watching their pantomime closely , Cleggett gathered that Loge was endeavoring to enforce some point of view with regard to the Jasper B. upon his two followers . 
Finally Loge , making a gesture towards Cleggett with one hand , tapped himself several times on the forehead with the other , his lips moving rapidly the while . 
The two other men shrugged their shoulders and nodded , as if in agreement with Loge . 
The insulting significance of the gesture was only too apparent . 
As plainly as if he had heard the accompanying words Cleggett understood that Loge , out of the depths of his perplexity , had said that he was mentally erratic . 
Ah , you think so , do you ? said Cleggett aloud , laying down his glass and seizing a rifle . 
Well , just to let you know that I have a certain opinion of you , also , my friend Loge And he sent a bullet over the heads of the three men . 
They hastily ducked into the house . 
Cleggett might have picked Loge off , but he disdained to do so . 
It was his purpose to take the man alive , if possible . 
But the rifle shot did not end the espionage . 
All day scouting parties in taxicabs kept appearing on the sandy plain to reconnoiter the fleet and fortress . 
They circled , they swooped , they dashed , they zigzagged here and there , but always at a high rate of speed , and always at a prudent distance from the canal . 
If Loge thought him demented , if he had his enemy guessing , so much the better . 
The eccentric movements of these cabs was a circumstance which in itself testified to Loge's bewilderment and curiosity . 
The water was cold , but they came out refreshed and invigorated by the plunge and feeling fit for any struggle that might be ahead of them . 
This maneuver on the part of Cleggett and his marines and infantrymen seemed still more to excite the curiosity and contribute to the bewilderment of Loge and his ruffians . 
After the general bath and a substantial lunch , Cleggett called all hands aft and addressed them . 
Ladies and loyal followers and co workers , he said . 
We have passed some nights and days of peril . 
And there are , I doubt not , still parlous times ahead of the Jasper B. before our ship sets sail for the China Seas . 
Washington Artillery Lamb , the janitor and butler of the Annabel Lee , possessed an accordion on which he was an earnest and artistic performer . 
Miss Pringle's Jefferson had with him a harmonica , or mouth organ , which he at once produced . 
The negro orchestra perched itself on the top of the cabin , and in a moment Lady Agatha , the five nurses , Cleggett , the three detectives , Dr . 
Farnsworth , and Captain Abernethy were tangoing on the deck . 
And this to the still further perplexity of Logan Black . 
Simeon Calthrop turned sadly away from the vessel , and , with a sigh , went and sat in the trench , where he was soon joined by Elmer . 
The disgraced preacher and the reformed convict had struck up a fast friendship . 
They sat with their backs towards the Jasper B. , and Cleggett supposed from their attitude that they were sternly condemnatory of the frivolity and festivity on board ship . 
Cleggett , after the first dance , sought them out . 
I hope , he said to the Rev . 
Mr. Calthrop , not unkindly , that you don't disapprove of us . 
It isn't that , Mr. Cleggett , said the ship's chaplain , with sorrow in his eloquent brown eyes , it isn't that at all . 
In fact , I had a tango class in the basement of my church , every Thursday evening when I had a church . 
Then what is it ? Alas ! sighed the young preacher . 
I do not trust myself ! Women , as I have told you , Mr. Cleggett , are apt to become fascinated with me . 
It is in such gay scenes as this that the danger lies , Mr. Cleggett . 
As an honorable man , I feel that I am bound to withdraw myself and my fatal influence . 
You are too subtle too subtle for moral health , said Cleggett . 
But I will not attempt to influence you . 
D' youse get me ? Not a chancet . 
Oncet youse reformed , Mr. Cleggett , youse can't be too careful . 
Cleggett returned to the vessel . 
Miss Pringle the elder was leaving it . 
Miss Henrietta Pringle was following . 
Cleggett gathered that the niece left reluctantly , and under the coercion of the aunt . 
Miss Pringle the elder was about to join the Rev . 
Mr. Calthrop in the trench . 
Morality , as well as misery , loves company . 
But Mr. Calthrop saw the Misses Pringle coming . 
He swiftly rose , passed them by with his face averted , and went aboard the Annabel Lee . 
It was evident that he believed that his fatal gift of fascination had attracted these ladies towards him in spite of himself . 
Elmer and the Misses Pringle sat gloomily on a clean plank in the trench while the dance went gayly on . 
Mrs. Lady Agatha , ma'am , if you kin fox trot as well as you kin tango I'll never have another word to say agin female suffragettes . 
But as Cap'n Abernethy spoke the grin froze upon his face . 
My God ! Look there ! he shrilled , pointing a long finger towards the plain . 
Simultaneously the Misses Pringle , shrieking wildly , leaped from the trench towards the ship and Elmer fired a pistol shot . 
Cleggett beheld five taxicabs , filled with Loge's assassins , charging towards the vessel at the rate of thirty miles an hour . 
To arms ! To arms ! shouted the commander of the Jasper B. But the enemy , with Logan Black in the lead , had already reached the trenches . 
They flung themselves to the ground and swept over the trench towards the bulwarks , twenty strong , with flashing machetes . 
So confident had Cleggett been that Loge would not dare to attack in broad daylight that he had scarcely even considered the possibility . 
It was the one fault of his military and naval career . 
Cutlasses , men , and at them ! he cried . 
CHAPTER XXIII CUTLASSES There was no thought of guns or pistols . 
There was no time to aim or fire . 
Loge's rush had lodged him on the deck . 
Roaring like a wild animal , he carried the fight to the defenders . 
He meant to make a finish of it this time , and with the edged and bitter steel . 
Cleggett strove to engage Loge hand to hand and Loge , on his part , attempted to fight his way to Cleggett they shouted insults at each other across the press of battle . 
But in affairs of this sort a man must give his attention to the person directly in front of him otherwise he is lost . 
In the center of Cleggett's line stood the three detectives shoulder to shoulder . 
Their three swords rose and fell as one . 
They cut and lunged and guarded with a machine like regularity , advancing , giving ground , advancing again , with a rhythmic unanimity which was baffling to their opponents . 
On either flank of the detectives fought one of the gigantic negroes . 
Washington Artillery Lamb , almost at once , had broken his cutlass , and now he raged in the waist of the Jasper B. with a long iron bar in his hand . 
Simeon Calthrop , in a loud agitated voice , sang hymns as he swung his cutlass . 
And , among the legs of the combatants , leapt and snapped Teddy the Pomeranian , biting friend and foe indiscriminately upon the ankles . 
But gradually the weight of superior numbers began to tell . 
Farnsworth staggered from the fight with a face covered with blood which blinded him . 
Cap'n Abernethy likewise was bleeding from a wound in the head George the Greek and Watson Bard were hurt , but both fought on . 
Cleggett was upon the criminal in an instant , his hand at the outlaw's throat . 
They grappled and rolled upon the deck . 
But in another second Wilton Barnstable and Barton Ward , coming to Cleggett's assistance , had snapped irons upon the president of the crime trust , hand and foot . 
His overthrow was the signal of his men's defeat . 
As he went down they hesitated and wavered . 
The two great negroes , taking advantage of this hesitation , burst among them with mighty blows and strange Afro American oaths , Castor and Pollux in bronze . 
With a shout of Banzai ! Kuroki rushed forward with his kris the other defenders added weight and fury to the rally . 
Before the irons were on the wrists of Loge his men were routed . 
They leaped the rail and made off for their fleet of taxicabs , flinging away their weapons as they ran . 
Loge writhed and twisted and lashed the deck with his legs and body for a moment , striving even against the bands of steel that bit into his wrists and ankles . 
And then he lay still with his face against the planks as if in a vast and overwhelming bitterness of despair . 
It had been Cleggett's earlier thought to take the man alive , if possible , and turn him over to the authorities . 
But now that Loge was taken he burned with the wish for personal combat with him . 
He desired to be the agent of society , and put an end to Logan Black himself . 
Cleggett , as he gazed at the fellow lying prone upon the deck , could not repress a murmur of dissatisfaction . 
We never fought it out , he said . 
Whether Loge heard him or not , the same thought was evidently running is his mind . 
A slow , malignant grin that showed his yellow canine teeth lifted his upper lip . 
He fixed his eyes on Cleggett with a cold deadliness of hatred and said You are lucky . 
Outwardly Cleggett remained calm , but inwardly he was shaken with an intensity of passion that matched Loge's own . 
Lucky ? he said quietly . 
That is as may be . 
And if , as I infer , you desire a settlement of a more personal nature than the law recognizes , it is still not too late to accommodate you . 
Desire ! cried Loge , with a movement of his manacled hands . 
I would go to Hell happy if I sent you ahead of me ! Very well , said Cleggett . 
Since you have challenged me I will fight you . 
I will do you that honor . 
Loge was about to answer when Wilton Barnstable broke in Mr. Cleggett , he said , I scarcely understand you . 
Are you consenting to fight this man ? Certainly , said Cleggett . 
A duel ? said Wilton Barnstable in astonishment . 
His life is forfeit to the law . 
I hope , before the year is out , to send him to the electric chair . 
Under the circumstances , a duel is an absurdity . 
An absurdity ? Cleggett , with his hands on his hips , and a little dancing light in his eyes , faced the great detective squarely . 
You permit yourself very peculiar expressions , Mr. Barnstable ! I beg your pardon , said Wilton Barnstable . 
But you must see yourself , Mr. Cleggett , that a duel is useless , if nothing else . 
The man is our prisoner . 
He belongs to the law . 
Loge had struggled to a sitting posture , his back against the port bulwark , and was listening with an odd look on his face . 
The law ? said Cleggett . 
I suppose , in one sense , that is true . 
But the matter has its personal element as well . 
I must insist , said Wilton Barnstable , that Logan Black is my prisoner . 
Cleggett was silent a moment . 
Then he said firmly Mr. Barnstable , it is painful to me to have to remind you of it , but your attitude forces me to an equal directness . 
The fact that Logan Black is now a captive is due to his efforts to recover certain evidence which may be used against him . 
This evidence I discovered and defended , and this evidence I now hold in my possession . 
Loge had listened to this speech attentively . 
He lifted his head and glanced about the deck , filling his lungs with a deep draft of air . 
Something like a gleam of hope was visible in his features . 
It is irregular , said Wilton Barnstable , frowning , and not half convinced . 
I hope there is such a thing as honor ! Clement ! It was Lady Agatha who spoke . 
As she did so she laid her hand on Cleggett's arm . 
She had hearkened in silence to the colloquy between him and Barnstable , as had the others . 
She drew him out of sight and hearing behind the cabin . 
Clement , she said with agitation , do not fight this man ! I must , he said simply . 
It cut him to the heart to refuse the first request that she had asked of him since his avowal of his love for her and her tacit acceptance . 
But , to a man of Cleggett's ideas , there was no choice . 
Clement , she said in a low tone , you have told me that you love me . 
Agatha ! he murmured brokenly . 
And you know she paused , as if she could not continue , but her eyes and manner spoke the rest . 
In a moment her lips spoke it too she was not the sort of woman who is afraid to avow the promptings of her heart . 
You know , she said , that I love you . 
Agatha ! he cried again . 
He could say no more . 
Oh , Clement , she said , if you were killed killed uselessly ! now that I have found you , I could not bear it . 
Dear , I could not bear it ! Cleggett was profoundly moved . 
He yearned to take her in his arms to comfort her , and to promise anything she wished . 
For an instant he wavered . 
Agatha ! he said with dry lips . 
I have already accepted the fellow's challenge . 
And what of that ? she cried . 
Would you cling to a barren point of honor in despite of love ? Even so , he said , and sighed . 
When he spoke it was slowly and gently , but earnestly . 
No point of honor is a barren one , dear , he said . 
What the man lying there may be matters nothing . 
It is not to him that I have given my word , but to myself . 
In our hurried modern life we are not punctilious enough about these things . 
Perhaps , in the old days , the men and women were worse than we in many ways . 
But they held to a few traditions , or the best of them did , that make the loose and tawdry manners of this age seem cheap indeed . 
I have always seen it plainly , and always tried to live by it , too . 
Perhaps it was never , in any period , more than a dream but I have dreamed that dream . 
And anyone who dreams that dream will have a reverence for his spoken word no matter to whom it is passed . 
But I have never truly lived in this age . 
I see myself so walking always . 
It may be that I am a vain ass , but I cannot help it . 
It may be that I am a little mad but I would rather be mad with a Don Quixote than sane with an Andrew Carnegie and pile up platitudes and dollars . 
I have opened my heart to you , as I have never done to anyone before . 
And now I put myself into your hands . 
Shall I fight him ? She had listened , mute and immobile , and as he spoke the red sun made a sudden glory of her hair . 
She leaned towards him , and it was as if the spirit of all the man's lifelong , foolish , romantic musings were in her eyes and on her face . 
Fight him ! she said . 
And kill him ! And then her head was on his shoulder , and his arms were about her . 
Don't die ! she sobbed . 
Don't die ! Don't fear , he said , I feel that I'll make short work of him . 
She smiled courageously back at him with her hands upon his shoulders she held him back and looked at him with tilted head . 
If you are killed , she said , it will have been more than most women ever get , to have known and loved you for two days . 
Two days ? he said . 
Forever ! Forever ! she said . 
Loge shrugged his shoulders , and said with a sneer A second , eh ? We seem to be doing a great deal of arranging for a very small amount of fighting . 
I suggest , said Wilton Barnstable , that a night's rest would be quite in order for both principals . 
Loge broke in quickly , with studied insolence I object to the delay . 
Mr. Cleggett might find some excuse for changing his mind overnight . 
Let us , if you please , begin at once . 
It was not I who suggested the delay , said Cleggett , haughtily . 
I am the challenged party . 
Ho ! Swords ! cried Loge , with a harsh , jarring laugh . 
Name pistols , he said . 
For God's sake , Cleggett , name pistols ! If I had had any idea that you were going to demand rapiers I should have warned you before . 
Cleggett was amused at the great detective's anxiety . 
It appears that the fellow handles the rapier pretty well , eh ? he said easily . 
And then he paused and groaned and mopped his brow . 
Presently he controlled his agitation and continued . 
Cleggett , he said , the man is an expert swordsman . 
I have been on his trail I know his life for years past . 
He was once a maitre d'armes . 
He gave lessons in the art . 
Yes ? said Cleggett , laughing and flexing his wrist . 
I am glad to hear that ! It will be really interesting then . 
Cleggett , said Barnstable , I beg of you name pistols . 
This is the man who invented that diabolical thrust with which Georges Clemenceau laid low so many of his political opponents . 
If you must go on with this mad duel , name pistols ! Barnstable , said Cleggett , I know what I am about , believe me . 
Your anxiety does me little honor , but I am willing to suppose that you are not deliberately insulting , and I pass it over . 
I intend to kill this man . 
It is a duty which I owe to society . 
And as for the rapier believe me , Barnstable , I am no novice . 
And my blood tingles and my soul aches with the desire to expunge that man from life with my own hand . 
Come , we have talked enough . 
There is a case of swords in the cabin . 
Will you do me the favor to bring them on deck ? Loge's irons were unlocked . 
He rose to his feet and stretched himself . 
He removed his coat and waistcoat . 
Then he took off his shirt , revealing the fact that he wore next his skin a long sleeved undershirt of red flannel . 
Cleggett began to imitate him . 
But as the commander of the Jasper B. began to pull his shirt over his head he heard a little scream . 
Everyone turned in the direction from which it had emanated . 
They beheld Miss Genevieve Pringle perched upon the top of the cabin , whither she had mounted by means of a short ladder . 
This lady , perhaps not quite aware of the possibly sanguinary character of the spectacle she was about to witness , had , nevertheless , sensed the fact that a spectacle was toward . 
Miss Pringle had with her a handsome lorgnette . 
As you wish , said Cleggett politely , complying with her wish , but at a loss to comprehend her . 
With these words she passed into the cabin , with the air of one who has sustained a mortal insult . 
She's shocked , Miss Pringle is . 
In great and crucial moments , said Cleggett soberly , pulling off his shirt again and picking up a sword , we may dispense with the minor conventions without apology . 
Loge chose a weapon with the extreme of care and particularity , trying the hang and balance of several of them . 
He looked well to the weight , bent the blade in his hands to test the spring and temper , tried the point upon his thumb . 
He handled the rapier as if he had found an old friend again after a long absence he looked around upon his enemies with a sort of ferocious , bantering gayety . 
For my part , said Cleggett , I order it . 
And , said Wilton Barnstable , drawing his pistol , Mr. Black will please note that while I am standing by the bulwarks I shall be watching indeed . 
Should he make an attempt to escape from the vessel I shall riddle him with bullets . 
Come , come , said Loge , all this conversation is a waste of time ! That is my opinion also , said Cleggett . 
They saluted formally , and engaged their blades . 
With Cleggett , swordsmanship was both a science and an art . 
It was also a passion . 
A good swordsman can be made a superior swordsman may be born the real masters are both born and made . 
It was so with Cleggett . 
His interest in fencing had been keen from his early boyhood . 
In his teens he had acquired unusual practical skill without great theoretical knowledge . 
Then he had recognized the art for what it is , the most beautiful game on earth , and had made a profound and thorough study of it it appealed to his imagination . 
He became , in a way , the poet of the foil . 
Cleggett seldom fenced publicly , and then only under an assumed name he abhorred publicity . 
But there was not a teacher in New York City who did not know him for a master . 
They brought him their half worked out visions of new combinations , new thrusts he perfected them , and simplified , or elaborated , and gave back the finished product . 
They were the workmen , the craftsmen , the men of talent he was the originator , the genius . 
And he was especially lucky in not having been tied down , in his younger years , to one national tradition of the art . 
The limitations of the French , the Spanish , the Italian , or the Austrian schools had not enslaved him in youth and hampered the free development of his individuality . 
He had studied them all he chose from them all their superiorities their excellences he blended into a system of his own . 
It might be called the Cleggett System . 
The Frenchman is an intellectual swordsman the basis of his art is a thorough knowledge of its mathematics . 
Upon this foundation he superimposes a structure of audacity . 
But he often falls into one error or another , for all his mental brilliancy . 
It is in his blood he uses his rapier with a wild and angry grace that is feline . 
The Italian thinks of but one thing to kill . 
He will take a severe wound to give a fatal one . 
The French are the best fencers in the world the Italians the deadliest duelists . 
Cleggett , as has been said , knew all the schools without being the slave of any of them . 
He brought his sword en tierce Loge's blade met his with strength and delicacy . 
The strength Cleggett was prepared for . 
But he was too much the master , too confident of his own powers , to trifle . 
It was executed with the directness and rapidity of a flash of lightning . 
Ah , cried Loge , showing his yellow teeth in a grin , so the little man knows that thrust ! I invented it , said Cleggett . 
With the word he pressed forward and , making a swift and dazzling feint , followed it with two brilliant thrusts , either of which would have meant the death of a tyro . 
The first one Loge parried the second touched him but it gave him nothing more than a scratch . 
Nevertheless , the smile faded from Loge's face he gave ground in his turn before this rapid vigor of attack he measured Cleggett with a new glance . 
You are touched , I think , said Cleggett , meditating a fresh combination , and I am glad to see you drop that ugly pretense at a grin . 
Take care , take care , Cleggett ! warned Wilton Barnstable , from his post by the starboard bulwark . 
Make yourself easy , said Cleggett , parrying a counter en carte , I am only getting warm . 
And both of them , stung by the slight scratches which they had received , settled to the business with an intent and silent deadliness of purpose . 
To all appearances Loge had an immense advantage over Cleggett his legs were a good two inches longer so were his arms . 
And he knew how to make these peculiarities count . 
He fought for a while with a calm and steady precision that repeatedly baffled the calculated impetuosity of Cleggett's attack . 
But the air of bantering certainty with which he had begun the duel had left him . 
But with a second slight wound Loge began to give ground . 
With Cleggett a bout with the foils had always been a duel . 
Therefore , this was not his first duel he had fought hundreds of them . 
And he fought always on a settled plan , adapting it , of course , to the idiosyncrasies of his adversary . 
It was his custom to vary the system of his attack frequently in the most disconcerting manner , at the same time steadily increasing the pace at which he fought . 
Cleggett knew that sooner or later a winded man makes a fault . 
The lungs labor and fail to give the blood all the oxygen it needs . 
Nerves and muscles are no longer the perfect servants of the brain for a fraction of a second the sword deviates from the proper line . 
It was as if Cleggett's blade were an extension of his will he and his sword were not two things , but one . 
The metal in his hand was no longer merely a whip of steel it was a thing that lived with his own life . 
His pulse beat in it . 
It was a part of him . 
Come ! said Cleggett , as Loge broke ground , scarcely aware that he spoke aloud . 
At this rate we shall be at home thrusts soon ! Loge must have thought so too a shade passed over his face , his upper lip lifted haggardly . 
Perhaps even that iron nature was beginning to feel at last something of the dull sickness which is the fear of death . 
But Loge , gathering his power , made a brilliant and desperate rally twice he grazed Cleggett , whose blade was too closely engaged and then suddenly broke ground again . 
This time Cleggett perceived that he had been retreating in accordance with a preconceived program . 
He was certain the man contemplated a trick , perhaps some foul stroke . 
He rushed forward with a terrible thrust . 
As Cleggett , struck in the mouth with the pommel , staggered back , Loge plunged feet foremost into the hold . 
It was too unexpected , and too quickly done , for a shot from Barnstable or any of Cleggett's men . 
Cleggett , with the blood streaming from his mouth , recovered himself and leaped through the aperture in the deck . 
He landed upon his feet with a jar , and , shortening his sword in his hand , stared about him in the gloom . 
An instant later Wilton Barnstable and Cap'n Abernethy were beside him . 
Gone ! said Cleggett simply . 
Barnstable drew from his pocket a small electric lantern and swept the beam in a circle about the hold . 
Again and again he raked the darkness until the finger of light had rested upon every foot of the interior . 
But Loge had vanished as completely as a snowflake that falls into a tub of water . 
CHAPTER XXV THE SECRET OF THE VESSEL'S HOLD Idiot that I am , cried Cleggett , not to have covered that hole ! His chagrin was touching to behold . 
There , there , Cleggett , said Wilton Barnstable kindly , do not reproach yourself too bitterly . 
But to let him escape when I had him Cleggett finished the sentence with a groan . 
But Wilton Barnstable was thinking . 
Please have some lights brought down here if you will , Captain , he said to Abernethy , and ask Mr. Bard and Mr. Ward to come . 
In a few minutes the interior of the hold was illuminated with lanterns it was as bright as day . 
But the detectives did not proceed at once to a minute examination of the hold as Cleggett had supposed they would . 
Instead , they stood in the waist of the vessel and thought . 
Cleggett could almost feel these three master brains pulsating in unison , working in rhythmic accord , there in the silence the sense of this intense cerebral effort became almost oppressive . 
Finally Wilton Barnstable began to stroke his mustache , and a pleased smile stole over his plump and benign visage . 
Barton Ward also began to stroke his mustache and smile . 
But it was twenty seconds more before Watson Bard's corrugated brow relaxed and his eyes twinkled with the idea that had come so much more readily to the other two . 
Cleggett , said Wilton Barnstable , you have heard of the deductive method as applied to the work of the detective ? I have , said Cleggett . 
I have read Poe's detective tales and Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories . 
Ah ! Sherlock Holmes ! The three detectives looked at each other with glances in which were mingled both bitterness and amusement the look seemed to dispose of Sherlock Holmes . 
Once again Cleggett had a fleeting thought that Wilton Barnstable might possibly be a vain man . 
Sherlock Holmes , said Barnstable , never existed . 
His marvelous feats are not possible in real life , Cleggett . 
But the deductive method which he pretended to use mind you , I say PRETENDED , Cleggett ! is , nevertheless , sound . 
And then the three detectives gave Cleggett an example of the phenomenal cleverness . 
Mr. Ward , said Wilton Barnstable , Logan Black entered this hold . 
He did , said Barton Ward . 
He is not here now , said Wilton Barnstable . 
He is not , said Watson Bard . 
Therefore he has escaped , said Wilton Barnstable . 
But how ? said Barton Ward . 
Only a ghost or an insect could leave this hold otherwise than by the hatchway , to all appearances , said Wilton Barnstable . 
Logan Black is not a ghost , said Barton Ward firmly . 
Logan Black is not an insect , said Watson Bard with conviction . 
Then , said Barnstable , that eliminates the supernatural and the the The entomological ? suggested Cleggett . 
The three detectives stared at him fixedly for a moment , as if surprised at the interruption . 
But if they were miffed they were too dignified to do more than hint it . 
Barnstable continued There is no such thing as magic . 
There is not , said Ward . 
The fourth dimension does not exist , said Bard . 
Therefore Logan Black's exit , said Barnstable , was in accordance with well known physical laws . 
We are forced to the conclusion that he made his escape through a secret passageway . 
A tunnel , said Barton Ward . 
With a concealed door opening into the hold , said Watson Bard . 
A ship with a secret tunnel ! cried Cleggett . 
Who ever heard of the like ? Why , the thing is But he broke off . 
He had been leaning against the starboard side of the hold . 
Even as he spoke he felt the wall behind him moving . 
It was built into the side of the Jasper B. and the joints were cleverly concealed . 
He had inadvertently found , with his elbow , the nailhead which was in reality the push button that released the spring . 
The black entrance of a subterranean passage yawned before him . 
The three detectives were pointing at the tunnel with plump forefingers and bland , triumphant smiles . 
Nothing is impossible , my dear Cleggett , said Barnstable . 
The tunnel HAD to be there ! It explains everything , said Cleggett . 
It seemed , somehow , to stamp the Jasper B. indelibly as a thing of the land rather than as the gallant creature of piping winds and following seas . 
For a moment he was willing to believe that Cap'n Abernethy was nothing but a Long Island truck farmer , and NOT of a seafaring family at all . 
For a moment he felt himself to be a copyreader again on the New York Enterprise . 
Cleggett began to see the matter in its proper light . 
A tunnel ! he cried , brightening , and looking at it with his legs spread a little wide and his hands on his hips . 
But , come , we are wasting time ! The other end of this passage is at Morris's , that is plain . 
Loge Black has only a few minutes' start of us . 
Therefore , to Morris's ! CHAPTER XXVI A DOG DIES GAME Clambering out of the hold , the three detectives and Cleggett briefly made their followers acquainted with the extraordinary turn of events . 
Mr. Calthrop , Miss Pringle's Jefferson , and Washington Artillery Lamb were detailed to guard the Jasper B. end of the tunnel . 
The others , seizing their rifles , raced across the sands towards Morris's . 
In a few moments the place was invested , with riflemen on every side except the south , which fronted on the bay . 
The steel jacketed bullets from the high power guns tore through and through the flimsy walls . 
Nevertheless the defenders replied pluckily , and the siege might have dragged on for hours had it not been for the courage and resource of Kuroki . 
Gaining the stable , Kuroki found an old pushcart there . 
He piled three bales of hay upon it , and then set fire to the hay . 
Then he ran as if the devil were after him , and was almost out of pistol shot before he got a bullet in the calf of his leg . 
The blaze caught the wood and spread . 
In two minutes the east verandah was in flames . 
Loge and his men attempted to pour water on the blaze from above . 
But Cleggett's party directed so hot a fire upon the windows that the defenders were forced to retire . 
The road house was old , and was of very light construction the fire spread with rapidity . 
Loge was in a trap . 
But that evil and indomitable spirit refused to yield . 
Even when his remaining ruffians came out and gave themselves up Loge still fought on alone in a sullen fury of despair . 
Give yourself up , cried Wilton Barnstable . 
Damn it , man , anything's better than roasting to death ! Loge raised his hand and sped a last bullet at the detective , grazing Barnstable's temple . 
Come in and get me ! he shouted . 
Barnstable fired , just as a whirl of smoke blew in front of Loge . 
Cleggett thought the outlaw staggered , but he was not certain . 
A moment later a portion of the roof fell then the east wall crashed in . 
Morris's was a blazing ruin . 
He has perished in the flames , said Wilton Barnstable . 
So ends Logan Black ! More like he's blowed his head off , said Cap'n Abernethy . 
If you was to ask me , that's what I'd do . 
He has done neither ! cried Cleggett . 
He has taken to the tunnel . 
That man will fight to the last breath . 
If Loge were in there indeed he had the fire at one end and Cleggett at the other . 
But even at that , escape was possible , for all Cleggett knew . 
What ramifications this peculiar passageway might have he could not guess . 
The place was narrow , and in spots so low that it was necessary for a man to crouch almost to the ground . 
The earth beneath him was beaten hard and smooth . 
Cleggett thought possibly that the tunnel had originally led from Morris's basement to the smuggler's cave which Wilton Barnstable had spoken of , and that it had been extended later to the ship . 
He learned afterwards that this was true from the men who had surrendered . 
In the event of a raid upon Morris's his get away through the hulk was provided for . 
He had intended buying the ship himself but Cleggett had forestalled him . 
From the prisoners Cleggett also learned later that two men had been concerned in the explosion which had broken the big rocks on the plain . 
One of them had won the Claiborne signet ring at poker after Reginald Maltravers had been stripped of his valuables , and had worn it . 
It was known that one of them owed the other money they had been quarreling about it as they entered the tunnel from the cellar of Morris's . 
This may have led to a blow , or more likely only to an argument during which a bomb was dropped and exploded , followed quickly by the other explosion . 
Dead hand , counterfeit bill and ring were flung whimsically to the surface of the earth together , and the leaning rocks had been astonishingly broken from beneath through this trivial quarrel . 
Had it not been for this squabble the Jasper B. and all on board must have been destroyed . 
Verily , the minds of wicked men compass their own downfall , and retribution can sometimes be an artist . 
But Cleggett , as he crawled forward through the darkness and the damp , thought little of these things that had so mystified him at the time . 
He was alert for what the immediate future might hold , not doubting that Loge had retreated to the tunnel . 
He had too strong a sense of the man's powerful and iniquitous personality to suppose that Loge would kill himself while one chance remained , however remote , of injuring his enemies . 
Loge was the kind of dog that dies biting . 
Suddenly , after pressing forward for several minutes , he ran against an obstruction . 
The tunnel seemed to come to an end . 
He did not dare show his light . 
But he felt with his hands . 
It was rock that blocked his way . 
Cleggett understood that this barrier was the result of the explosion . 
Groping and exploring with his hands , he found that the passage turned sharply to the left . 
It was more narrow and curving , for the distance of a few yards , and the earth beneath was fresher . 
When the tunnel had been blocked by the explosion , Loge and his men had burrowed around the obstruction . 
Cleggett judged that he must be at about the middle of the tunnel . 
He felt the more solid earth beneath his hands again , and knew that he had passed the rock . 
The passage now descended deeper into the ground , slanting steeply downward . 
This incline was twenty feet in length then the floor became horizontal again on the lower level . 
At the same time the passage widened . 
Cleggett stretched one arm out , then the other he could not touch the wall on either hand . 
He stood erect and held his hand up the roof was six inches above his head . 
He was in a room of some sort . 
It rolled to the ground with what was really a slight sound . 
But to Cleggett , who had been getting more and more excited , it was loud as an avalanche . 
He stopped and held his breath he fancied that he had heard another noise besides the one which his pebble made . 
But he could not be sure . 
The sensation that he was not alone suddenly gripped him with overwhelming force . 
His heart began to beat more quickly the blood drummed in his ears . 
Nevertheless , he kept his head . 
He took his pocket lantern in his left hand , and his pistol in his right , and leaned with his back against the wall . 
But the eerie feeling that he was watched grew upon him . 
Presently he fancied that the darkness began to vibrate , as if an electrical current of some sort were being passed through it , and it might forthwith burst into light . 
Cleggett , as we know , was not easily frightened . 
But now he was possessed of a strange feeling , akin to terror , but which was at the same time not any terror of physical injury . 
He did not fear Loge in dark or daylight he was ready to grapple with him and fight it out nevertheless he feared . 
That he could not say what he feared only increased his fear . 
Children say they are afraid of the dark . 
It is not the dark which they are afraid of . 
It is the bodiless presences which they imagine in the dark . 
It was so with Cleggett now . 
He was not daunted by anything that could strike a blow . 
But the sense of a personality began to encompass him . 
It pressed in upon him , played upon him , embraced him his flesh tingled as if he were being brushed he felt his hair stir . 
One recognizes a flower by its odor . 
So a soul flings off , in some inexplicable way , the sense of itself . 
This force that laid itself upon Cleggett and flowed around him had an individuality without a body . 
Not through his senses , but psychically , he recognized it it was the hateful and sinister individuality of Loge . 
Loge ! he roared , and the cavern rang . 
And with the word he pressed the button of his electric pocket lamp and shot a beam of light straight in front of him . 
It fell upon the yellowish brow and the wide , unwinking eyes of Loge . 
The eyes stared straight at Cleggett's own from across the cave , thirty feet away . 
Loge's teeth were bared in his malevolent grimace he head was bent forward he sat upon a rock . 
Cleggett , unable to withdraw his eyes , waited for Loge's first movement . 
The man made no sign . 
Cleggett slowly raised his pistol . 
But he did not fire . 
The open , staring eyes , unchanging at the menace of the lifted pistol , told the story . 
Cleggett crossed over and examined him . 
Clutched on his knees was a bomb . 
As for his last thought , Cleggett had felt it . 
Loge had died hating and lusting for his blood . 
CHAPTER XXVII CLEGGETT ACCOMMODATES THE KING There was a wedding next day on the deck of the Jasper B. The Rev . 
Simeon Calthrop performed the ceremony , and Wilton Barnstable insisted upon lending his vessel for a bridal cruise . 
Washington Artillery Lamb , engineer , janitor , cook and butler of the Annabel Lee , went with the vessel . 
Simeon Calthrop for a gospel ship . 
Elmer went with the Rev . 
Mr. Calthrop to assist him in his missionary work . 
But it was some time before the Jasper B. sailed . 
Besides the hole which was the entrance to the tunnel it was discovered that the vessel rested on a brick foundation . 
With the dam removed the water covered this masonry work , and she looked quite like a real ship . 
Mr. Goldberg had known about this foundation , but he had forgotten it , he explained to Cleggett . 
Mr. Calthrop fitted her out as a floating chapel and filled her with Bibles printed in all languages , which he distributes in many lands . 
When his fatal attractiveness for women threatens to involve him in trouble he hastily puts to sea . 
He has never become a really accomplished sailor , and the Jasper B. is something of a menace to navigation in the ports and harbors of the world . 
The suggestion has frequently been made that she should be set ashore permanently and put on wheels . 
But she has her features . 
She is , possibly , the only ship extant with a memorial skylight to her cabin . 
Cleggett wished her to carry some sort of memorial to the faithful Teddy , the Pomeranian dog , who perished of a stray shot in the fight at Morris's . 
And as a memorial window did not seem feasible a compromise was made on the memorial skylight . 
The glass is by Tiffany . 
The two gunmen were able to get free through political influence , but Maltravers was sent to England . 
He was maintained for some time in a private institution through the generosity of the Cleggetts , but finally went on a hunger strike and died . 
Wilton Barnstable smiles and prospers . 
He gained great additional fame for his clever work in the Case of Logan Black . 
Cleggett , in , was the father of four boys named D'Artagnan , Athos , Porthos , and Aramis Cleggett and the owner of the Claiborne estates . 
He is now immensely wealthy . 
This barber , whose Christian name was Walter , was , indeed , a mine of suggestion and information of all sorts . 
And being a good natured fellow , who wished the world well , Walter delighted to impart his original ideas and the fruits of his observation to his patrons while shaving them . 
But there were two things in particular concerning which Walter had thought deeply racehorses and the stock market . 
Why , I could show such a person how to multiply it by ten inside of two months . 
And he rapidly outlined to Cleggett a scheme so audacious and so brilliant that it fairly took our hero's breath away . 
Moreover , it stood the test of reflection it was sound . 
Not to descend to the sordid details , in three weeks Cleggett found himself possessed of a million dollars' gain . 
Half of this he gave to the excellent Walter , and in three months ran the other half million up to twenty millions . 
Cleggett eventually made him president of a college of journalism which he founded . 
The man had sunk so low that he was repeatedly arrested for pretending to be blind on the street corners , and had debauched an innocent dog to assist in this deception . 
Cleggett forgave him the slights of many years and made him an assistant janitor in the new college of journalism . 
The post is a sinecure , and well within even the man Wharton's powers . 
Cap'n Abernethy travels with the Cleggetts a great deal , under the hallucination , which they humor , that he is of service to them . 
The children are very fond of him . 
At Claiborne Castle Cleggett has had a shallow lake constructed for him . 
There the Captain , still firm in the belief that he is a sailor , loves to potter about with catboats and rafts . 
Farnsworth enjoys a lucrative position as physician to the Cleggett family , and Kuroki is their butler . 
By the prejudice against militants had abated in certain exalted circles in England , and Lady Agatha Cleggett and her husband were much at court . 
Cleggett , hating notoriety , had endeavored to conceal the story of his adventures along the dangerous coasts of Long Island but concealment was impossible . 
His Majesty sent the Premier to sound Cleggett upon the matter . 
No , no , said Cleggett affably . 
I couldn't think of it . 
I am quite democratic , you know . 
The second time the King sent one of the Royal Dukes to see Cleggett . 
They were at a house party in Wales , and Cleggett was a little disturbed that this business affair should be brought up at a gathering so distinctly social in its nature . 
He was too tactful to let it be seen , but secretly he felt that in approaching the matter in that fashion the Duke had erred in taste . 
But we need men like you in the House of Lords , pleaded the Duke . 
I cannot think of it , said Cleggett . 
The Duke thanked Cleggett for the compliment and Cleggett thought he had heard the end of it . 
It is hard to refuse things continually without seeming unappreciative . 
In fact , Cleggett felt trapped if the truth must be known , he was a little angry . 
Come , come , Cleggett , said the King , lay aside your prejudices and oblige me . 
I would not willingly wound your sensibilities in any particular , but pardon me if I am direct you have been very persistent . 
I AM an American , your Majesty , and I consider the honor of being an American citizen far above any that it is within your power to bestow . 
If I have not mentioned this before , it was because I did not wish to hurt you . 
I hope our friendship will not cease , but I must tell you flatly that I desire to hear no more of this . 
You will oblige me by not mentioning it again , Your Majesty . 
The King begged Cleggett's pardon with a becoming sincerity , and was about to withdraw . 
Cleggett , who liked him immensely , was sudden smitten with a regret that it had been so impossible to oblige him . 
Your Majesty , he cried impulsively , I BEG of you not to get the idea that there is anything personal in this refusal . 
I respect principle , said the King gravely . 
But he WAS hurt and could not help showing it , and he was a little stiff . 
We will compromise , said Cleggett , with a flash of inspiration . 
I will let you have my second son , Athos Cleggett . 
You may make him Earl of Claiborne , if you choose . 
After all , HE is half English ! That is like your generosity , Cleggett , said the King , smiling , and giving Cleggett his hand . 
