Many also have perished , have erred , and sinned , for women . 
O ye men , how can it be but women should be strong , seeing they do thus ? ESDRAS . 
I THE schoolmaster was leaving the village , and everybody seemed sorry . 
But the enthusiasm having waned he had never acquired any skill in playing , and the purchased article had been a perpetual trouble to him ever since in moving house . 
The rector had gone away for the day , being a man who disliked the sight of changes . 
He did not mean to return till the evening , when the new school teacher would have arrived and settled in , and everything would be smooth again . 
The blacksmith , the farm bailiff , and the schoolmaster himself were standing in perplexed attitudes in the parlour before the instrument . 
A proper good notion , said the blacksmith . 
It was decided that a deputation should wait on the boy's aunt an old maiden resident and ask her if she would house the piano till Mr. Phillotson should send for it . 
The smith and the bailiff started to see about the practicability of the suggested shelter , and the boy and the schoolmaster were left standing alone . 
Sorry I am going , Jude ? asked the latter kindly . 
The regular scholars , if the truth must be told , stood at the present moment afar off , like certain historic disciples , indisposed to any enthusiastic volunteering of aid . 
The boy awkwardly opened the book he held in his hand , which Mr. Phillotson had bestowed on him as a parting gift , and admitted that he was sorry . 
So am I , said Mr. Phillotson . 
Why do you go , sir ? asked the boy . 
Ah that would be a long story . 
You wouldn't understand my reasons , Jude . 
You will , perhaps , when you are older . 
I think I should now , sir . 
Well don't speak of this everywhere . 
You know what a university is , and a university degree ? It is the necessary hallmark of a man who wants to do anything in teaching . 
My scheme , or dream , is to be a university graduate , and then to be ordained . 
The smith and his companion returned . 
Old Miss Fawley's fuel house was dry , and eminently practicable and she seemed willing to give the instrument standing room there . 
It was accordingly left in the school till the evening , when more hands would be available for removing it and the schoolmaster gave a final glance round . 
The boy Jude assisted in loading some small articles , and at nine o'clock Mr. Phillotson mounted beside his box of books and other IMPEDIMENTA , and bade his friends good bye . 
I shan't forget you , Jude , he said , smiling , as the cart moved off . 
Be a good boy , remember and be kind to animals and birds , and read all you can . 
And if ever you come to Christminster remember you hunt me out for old acquaintance' sake . 
The cart creaked across the green , and disappeared round the corner by the rectory house . 
The boy returned to the draw well at the edge of the greensward , where he had left his buckets when he went to help his patron and teacher in the loading . 
There was a lining of green moss near the top , and nearer still the hart's tongue fern . 
The morning was a little foggy , and the boy's breathing unfurled itself as a thicker fog upon the still and heavy air . 
It was as old fashioned as it was small , and it rested in the lap of an undulating upland adjoining the North Wessex downs . 
Old as it was , however , the well shaft was probably the only relic of the local history that remained absolutely unchanged . 
Many of the thatched and dormered dwelling houses had been pulled down of late years , and many trees felled on the green . 
II SLENDER as was Jude Fawley's frame he bore the two brimming house buckets of water to the cottage without resting . 
Over the door was a little rectangular piece of blue board , on which was painted in yellow letters , Drusilla Fawley , Baker . 
Within the little lead panes of the window this being one of the few old houses left were five bottles of sweets , and three buns on a plate of the willow pattern . 
Having seen the school master depart , they were summing up particulars of the event , and indulging in predictions of his future . 
And who's he ? asked one , comparatively a stranger , when the boy entered . 
Well ye med ask it , Mrs. Williams . 
He's my great nephew come since you was last this way . 
The old inhabitant who answered was a tall , gaunt woman , who spoke tragically on the most trivial subject , and gave a phrase of her conversation to each auditor in turn . 
where his father was living , and was took wi' the shakings for death , and died in two days , as you know , Caroline . 
Just now he's a scaring of birds for Farmer Troutham . 
It keeps him out of mischty . 
Why do ye turn away , Jude ? she continued , as the boy , feeling the impact of their glances like slaps upon his face , moved aside . 
to have him with her to kip 'ee company in your loneliness , fetch water , shet the winder shet ters o' nights , and help in the bit o' baking . 
Why didn't ye get the schoolmaster to take 'ee to Christminster wi' un , and make a scholar of 'ee , she continued , in frowning pleasantry . 
I'm sure he couldn't ha' took a better one . 
The boy is crazy for books , that he is . 
It runs in our family rather . 
Jude , my child , don't you ever marry . 
'Tisn't for the Fawleys to take that step any more . 
This vast concave was the scene of his labours for Mr Troutham the farmer , and he descended into the midst of it . 
How ugly it is here ! he murmured . 
Every inch of ground had been the site , first or last , of energy , gaiety , horse play , bickerings , weariness . 
Groups of gleaners had squatted in the sun on every square yard . 
Love matches that had populated the adjoining hamlet had been made up there between reaping and carrying . 
But this neither Jude nor the rooks around him considered . 
The boy stood under the rick before mentioned , and every few seconds used his clacker or rattle briskly . 
He sounded the clacker till his arm ached , and at length his heart grew sympathetic with the birds' thwarted desires . 
They seemed , like himself , to be living in a world which did not want them . 
He ceased his rattling , and they alighted anew . 
Poor little dears ! said Jude , aloud . 
You SHALL have some dinner you shall . 
There is enough for us all . 
Farmer Troutham can afford to let you have some . 
Eat , then my dear little birdies , and make a good meal ! They stayed and ate , inky spots on the nut brown soil and Jude enjoyed their appetite . 
A magic thread of fellow feeling united his own life with theirs . 
Puny and sorry as those lives were , they much resembled his own . 
His clacker he had by this time thrown away from him , as being a mean and sordid instrument , offensive both to the birds and to himself as their friend . 
With this shadow on his mind he did not care to show himself in the village , and went homeward by a roundabout track behind a high hedge and across a pasture . 
Here he beheld scores of coupled earthworms lying half their length on the surface of the damp ground , as they always did in such weather at that time of the year . 
It was impossible to advance in regular steps without crushing some of them at each tread . 
Though Farmer Troutham had just hurt him , he was a boy who could not himself bear to hurt anything . 
He carefully picked his way on tiptoe among the earthworms , without killing a single one . 
What ? Mr. Troutham have turned me away because I let the rooks have a few peckings of corn . 
And there's my wages the last I shall ever hae ! He threw the sixpence tragically on the table . 
Ah ! said his aunt , suspending her breath . 
And she opened upon him a lecture on how she would now have him all the spring upon her hands doing nothing . 
If you can't skeer birds , what can ye do ? There ! don't ye look so deedy ! Farmer Troutham is not so much better than myself , come to that . 
But 'tis as Job said , 'Now they that are younger than I have me in derision , whose fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock . 
More angry with Jude for demeaning her by coming there than for dereliction of duty , she rated him primarily from that point of view , and only secondarily from a moral one . 
Not that you should have let the birds eat what Farmer Troutham planted . 
Of course you was wrong in that . 
Lord ! you ought to know where the city of Christminster is . 
Near a score of miles from here . 
It is a place much too good for you ever to have much to do with , poor boy , I'm a thinking . 
We've never had anything to do with folk in Christminster , nor folk in Christminster with we . 
Jude went out , and , feeling more than ever his existence to be an undemanded one , he lay down upon his back on a heap of litter near the pig sty . 
The fog had by this time become more translucent , and the position of the sun could be seen through it . 
He pulled his straw hat over his face , and peered through the interstices of the plaiting at the white brightness , vaguely reflecting . 
Growing up brought responsibilities , he found . 
Events did not rhyme quite as he had thought . 
Nature's logic was too horrid for him to care for . 
That mercy towards one set of creatures was cruelty towards another sickened his sense of harmony . 
If he could only prevent himself growing up ! He did not want to be a man . 
Then , like the natural boy , he forgot his despondency , and sprang up . 
During the remainder of the morning he helped his aunt , and in the afternoon , when there was nothing more to be done , he went into the village . 
Here he asked a man whereabouts Christminster lay . 
Christminster ? Oh , well , out by there yonder though I've never bin there not I. I've never had any business at such a place . 
The man pointed north eastward , in the very direction where lay that field in which Jude had so disgraced himself . 
There was something unpleasant about the coincidence for the moment , but the fearsomeness of this fact rather increased his curiosity about the city . 
The farmer had said he was never to be seen in that field again yet Christminster lay across it , and the path was a public one . 
Here the ploughed land ended , and all before him was bleak open down . 
III NOT a soul was visible on the hedgeless highway , or on either side of it , and the white road seemed to ascend and diminish till it joined the sky . 
At the very top it was crossed at right angles by a green ridgeway the Ickneild Street and original Roman road through the district . 
This ancient track ran east and west for many miles , and down almost to within living memory had been used for driving flocks and herds to fairs and markets . 
But it was now neglected and overgrown . 
Not far from the road stood a weather beaten old barn of reddish grey brick and tile . 
It was known as the Brown House by the people of the locality . 
On the slope of the roof two men were repairing the tiling . 
He turned into the ridgeway and drew towards the barn . 
When he had wistfully watched the workmen for some time he took courage , and ascended the ladder till he stood beside them . 
Well , my lad , and what may you want up here ? I wanted to know where the city of Christminster is , if you please . 
Christminster is out across there , by that clump . 
You can see it at least you can on a clear day . 
Ah , no , you can't now . 
The other tiler , glad of any kind of diversion from the monotony of his labour , had also turned to look towards the quarter designated . 
You can't often see it in weather like this , he said . 
The time I've noticed it is when the sun is going down in a blaze of flame , and it looks like I don't know what . 
The heavenly Jerusalem , suggested the serious urchin . 
Ay though I should never ha' thought of it myself . 
But I can't see no Christminster to day . 
The boy strained his eyes also yet neither could he see the far off city . 
When he repassed the barn to go back to Marygreen he observed that the ladder was still in its place , but that the men had finished their day's work and gone away . 
It was waning towards evening there was still a faint mist , but it had cleared a little except in the damper tracts of subjacent country and along the river courses . 
But even if he waited here it was hardly likely that the air would clear before night . 
Yet he was loth to leave the spot , for the northern expanse became lost to view on retreating towards the village only a few hundred yards . 
He ascended the ladder to have one more look at the point the men had designated , and perched himself on the highest rung , overlying the tiles . 
He might not be able to come so far as this for many days . 
Perhaps if he prayed , the wish to see Christminster might be forwarded . 
People said that , if you prayed , things sometimes came to you , even though they sometimes did not . 
Another man tried the same experiment , and the money did not come but he found afterwards that the breeches he knelt in were made by a wicked Jew . 
This was not discouraging , and turning on the ladder Jude knelt on the third rung , where , resting against those above it , he prayed that the mist might rise . 
He then seated himself again , and waited . 
The boy immediately looked back in the old direction . 
Some way within the limits of the stretch of landscape , points of light like the topaz gleamed . 
It was Christminster , unquestionably either directly seen , or miraged in the peculiar atmosphere . 
The spectator gazed on and on till the windows and vanes lost their shine , going out almost suddenly like extinguished candles . 
The vague city became veiled in mist . 
Turning to the west , he saw that the sun had disappeared . 
The foreground of the scene had grown funereally dark , and near objects put on the hues and shapes of chimaeras . 
But his dreams were as gigantic as his surroundings were small . 
In sad wet seasons , though he knew it must rain at Christminster too , he could hardly believe that it rained so drearily there . 
It would be necessary to come back alone , but even that consideration did not deter him , for he could throw a little manliness into his mood , no doubt . 
The project was duly executed . 
He was rewarded but what he saw was not the lamps in rows , as he had half expected . 
In the glow he seemed to see Phillotson promenading at ease , like one of the forms in Nebuchadnezzar's furnace . 
He had heard that breezes travelled at the rate of ten miles an hour , and the fact now came into his mind . 
He parted his lips as he faced the north east , and drew in the wind as if it were a sweet liquor . 
Suddenly there came along this wind something towards him a message from the place from some soul residing there , it seemed . 
They had a load of coals behind them a fuel that could only be got into the upland by this particular route . 
They were elderly men , and had genial voices . 
Jude addressed them , inquiring if they had come from Christminster . 
Heaven forbid , with this load ! said they . 
The place I mean is that one yonder . 
He was getting so romantically attached to Christminster that , like a young lover alluding to his mistress , he felt bashful at mentioning its name again . 
He pointed to the light in the sky hardly perceptible to their older eyes . 
There do seem a spot a bit brighter in the nor' east than elsewhere , though I shouldn't ha' noticed it myself , and no doubt it med be Christminster . 
The carter eyed him while he picked it up and straightened the leaves . 
Ah , young man , he observed , you'd have to get your head screwed on t'other way before you could read what they read there . 
Why ? asked the boy . 
Oh , they never look at anything that folks like we can understand , the carter continued , by way of passing the time . 
On'y foreign tongues used in the days of the Tower of Babel , when no two families spoke alike . 
They read that sort of thing as fast as a night hawk will whir . 
'Tis all learning there nothing but learning , except religion . 
And that's learning too , for I never could understand it . 
Yes , 'tis a serious minded place . 
Not but there's wenches in the streets o' nights . 
There , 'tis their business , like anybody else's . 
But how should you know Now don't you interrupt , my boy . 
Move the fore hoss aside , Bobby here's som'at coming . 
You must mind that I be a talking of the college life . 
'Em lives on a lofty level there's no gainsaying it , though I myself med not think much of 'em . 
And some on 'em be strong young fellows that can earn a'most as much in silver cups . 
As for music , there's beautiful music everywhere in Christminster . 
You med be religious , or you med not , but you can't help striking in your homely note with the rest . 
And there's a street in the place the main street that ha'n't another like it in the world . 
I should think I did know a little about Christminster ! By this time the horses had recovered breath and bent to their collars again . 
The waggon turned into a cross road , whereupon Jude thanked the carter warmly for his information , and said he only wished he could talk half as well about Christminster as he . 
Well , 'tis oonly what has come in my way , said the carter unboastfully . 
I've never been there , no more than you but I've picked up the knowledge here and there , and you be welcome to it . 
A getting about the world as I do , and mixing with all classes of society , one can't help hearing of things . 
Jude continued his walk homeward alone , pondering so deeply that he forgot to feel timid . 
It had been the yearning of his heart to find something to anchor on , to cling to for some place which he could call admirable . 
It is a city of light , he said to himself . 
The tree of knowledge grows there , he added a few steps further on . 
It is a place that teachers of men spring from and go to . 
It is what you may call a castle , manned by scholarship and religion . 
After this figure he was silent a long while , till he added It would just suit me . 
Jude , beginning to feel lonely , endeavoured to keep up with him . 
Well , my man ! I'm in a hurry , so you'll have to walk pretty fast if you keep alongside of me . 
Do you know who I am ? Yes , I think . 
Physician Vilbert ? Ah l'm known everywhere , I see ! That comes of being a public benefactor . 
Cottagers formed his only patients , and his Wessex wide repute was among them alone . 
His position was humbler and his field more obscure than those of the quacks with capital and an organized system of advertising . 
He was , in fact , a survival . 
The distances he traversed on foot were enormous , and extended nearly the whole length and breadth of Wessex . 
I s'pose you've been to Christminster , Physician ? I have many times , replied the long thin man . 
That's one of my centres . 
It's a wonderful city for scholarship and religion ? You'd say so , my boy , if you'd seen it . 
And Greek ? Well that's more for the men who are in training for bishops , that they may be able to read the New Testament in the original . 
I want to learn Latin and Greek myself . 
You must get a grammar of each tongue . 
I mean to go to Christminster some day . 
Two and threepence a box specially licensed by the government stamp . 
Can you get me the grammars if I promise to say it hereabout ? I'll sell you mine with pleasure those I used as a student . 
I think you'd better drop behind , my young man . 
Now I'll tell you what I'll do . 
Where will you be with the grammars ? I shall be passing here this day fortnight at precisely this hour of five and twenty minutes past seven . 
My movements are as truly timed as those of the planets in their courses . 
Here I'll be to meet you , said Jude . 
With orders for my medicines ? Yes , Physician . 
Jude then dropped behind , waited a few minutes to recover breath , and went home with a consciousness of having struck a blow for Christminster . 
On the evening appointed he stood motionless on the plateau , at the place where he had parted from Vilbert , and there awaited his approach . 
Jude thought it might perhaps be owing to his wearing another hat , and he saluted the physician with dignity . 
Well , my boy ? said the latter abstractedly . 
I've come , said Jude . 
You ? who are you ? Oh yes to be sure ! Got any orders , lad ? Yes . 
And Jude told him the names and addresses of the cottagers who were willing to test the virtues of the world renowned pills and salve . 
The quack mentally registered these with great care . 
And the Latin and Greek grammars ? Jude's voice trembled with anxiety . 
What about them ? You were to bring me yours , that you used before you took your degree . 
He was an unsophisticated boy , but the gift of sudden insight which is sometimes vouchsafed to children showed him all at once what shoddy humanity the quack was made of . 
There was to be no intellectual light from this source . 
The leaves dropped from his imaginary crown of laurel he turned to a gate , leant against it , and cried bitterly . 
The disappointment was followed by an interval of blankness . 
At this date Mr. Phillotson sent for his pianoforte , and it gave Jude a lead . 
It was necessary to act alone . 
The piano was despatched , and Jude waited days and weeks , calling every morning at the cottage post office before his great aunt was stirring . 
At last a packet did indeed arrive at the village , and he saw from the ends of it that it contained two thin books . 
He took it away into a lonely place , and sat down on a felled elm to open it . 
His childish idea was , in fact , a pushing to the extremity of mathematical precision what is everywhere known as Grimm's Law an aggrandizement of rough rules to ideal completeness . 
But this was not the cause of Jude's amazement . 
, but that every word in both Latin and Greek was to be individually committed to memory at the cost of years of plodding . 
Jude flung down the books , lay backward along the broad trunk of the elm , and was an utterly miserable boy for the space of a quarter of an hour . 
As he had often done before , he pulled his hat over his face and watched the sun peering insidiously at him through the interstices of the straw . 
This was Latin and Greek , then , was it this grand delusion ! The charm he had supposed in store for him was really a labour like that of Israel in Egypt . 
Somebody might have come along that way who would have asked him his trouble , and might have cheered him by saying that his notions were further advanced than those of his grammarian . 
But nobody did come , because nobody does and under the crushing recognition of his gigantic error Jude continued to wish himself out of the world . 
In the course of a month or two after the receipt of the books Jude had grown callous to the shabby trick played him by the dead languages . 
In fact , his disappointment at the nature of those tongues had , after a while , been the means of still further glorifying the erudition of Christminster . 
The mountain weight of material under which the ideas lay in those dusty volumes called the classics piqued him into a dogged , mouselike subtlety of attempt to move it piecemeal . 
The singularity aforesaid lay , after all , less in the conveyance itself than in Jude's manner of conducting it along its route . 
Its interior was the scene of most of Jude's education by private study . 
The only copies he had been able to lay hands on were old Delphin editions , because they were superseded , and therefore cheap . 
But , bad for idle schoolboys , it did so happen that they were passably good for him . 
And though Jude may have had little chance of becoming a scholar by these rough and ready means , he was in the way of getting into the groove he wished to follow . 
, which , though probably convenient enough to himself , was not altogether a safe proceeding for other travellers along the same roads . 
The policeman thereupon lay in wait for Jude , and one day accosted him and cautioned him . 
The light had changed , and it was the sense of this which had caused him to look up . 
The sun was going down , and the full moon was rising simultaneously behind the woods in the opposite quarter . 
It had all come of reading heathen works exclusively . 
The more he thought of it the more convinced he was of his inconsistency . 
He began to wonder whether he could be reading quite the right books for his object in life . 
Certainly there seemed little harmony between this pagan literature and the mediaeval colleges at Christminster , that ecclesiastical romance in stone . 
Ultimately he decided that in his sheer love of reading he had taken up a wrong emotion for a Christian young man . 
He abandoned the now familiar Ionic for a new dialect , and for a long time onward limited his reading almost entirely to the Gospels and Epistles in Griesbach's text . 
As another outcome of this change of groove he visited on Sundays all the churches within a walk , and deciphered the Latin inscriptions on fifteenth century brasses and tombs . 
Thither he resolved as firmly as ever to go . 
But how live in that city ? At present he had no income at all . 
He had no trade or calling of any dignity or stability whatever on which he could subsist while carrying out an intellectual labour which might spread over many years . 
What was most required by citizens ? Food , clothing , and shelter . 
An income from any work in preparing the first would be too meagre for making the second he felt a distaste the preparation of the third requisite he inclined to . 
They built in a city therefore he would learn to build . 
He could not go far wrong in following his uncle's footsteps , and engaging himself awhile with the carcases that contained the scholar souls . 
Here Jude had the opportunity of learning at least the rudiments of freestone working . 
Some time later he went to a church builder in the same place , and under the architect's direction became handy at restoring the dilapidated masonries of several village churches round about . 
He now had lodgings during the week in the little town , whence he returned to Marygreen village every Saturday evening . 
And thus he reached and passed his nineteenth year . 
VI AT this memorable date of his life he was , one Saturday , returning from Alfredston to Marygreen about three o'clock in the afternoon . 
It was fine , warm , and soft summer weather , and he walked with his tools at his back , his little chisels clinking faintly against the larger ones in his basket . 
He was in an enthusiastic mood . 
A warm self content suffused him when he considered what he had already done . 
Now and then as he went along he turned to face the peeps of country on either side of him . 
I have acquired quite an average student's power to read the common ancient classics , Latin in particular . 
This was true , Jude possessing a facility in that language which enabled him with great ease to himself to beguile his lonely walks by imaginary conversations therein . 
I have also done some Hesiod , a little scrap of Thucydides , and a lot of the Greek Testament . 
I wish there was only one dialect all the same . 
I have done some mathematics , including the first six and the eleventh and twelfth books of Euclid and algebra as far as simple equations . 
I know something of the Fathers , and something of Roman and English history . 
These things are only a beginning . 
But I shall not make much farther advance here , from the difficulty of getting books . 
Hence I must next concentrate all my energies on settling in Christminster . 
Once there I shall so advance , with the assistance I shall there get , that my present knowledge will appear to me but as childish ignorance . 
And what an example he would set ! If his income were pounds a year , he would give away pounds in one form and another , and live sumptuously on the remainder . 
Well , on second thoughts , a bishop was absurd . 
He would draw the line at an archdeacon . 
Perhaps a man could be as good and as learned and as useful in the capacity of archdeacon as in that of bishop . 
Yet he thought of the bishop again . 
His thoughts went on Euripides , Plato , Aristotle , Lucretius , Epictetus , Seneca , Antoninus . 
Then I must master other things the Fathers thoroughly Bede and ecclesiastical history generally a smattering of Hebrew I only know the letters as yet Hoity toity ! but I can work hard . 
I have staying power in abundance , thank God ! and it is that which tells . 
Yes , Christminster shall be my Alma Mater and I'll be her beloved son , in whom she shall be well pleased . 
On a sudden something smacked him sharply in the ear , and he became aware that a soft cold substance had been flung at him , and had fallen at his feet . 
Pigs were rather plentiful hereabout , being bred and fattened in large numbers in certain parts of North Wessex . 
He mounted the bank and looked over the fence . 
Thank you ! said Jude severely . 
I DIDN'T throw it , I tell you ! asserted one girl to her neighbour , as if unconscious of the young man's presence . 
Nor I , the second answered . 
Oh , Anny , how can you ! said the third . 
Jude grew sarcastic as he wiped his face , and caught their remarks . 
YOU didn't do it oh no ! he said to the up stream one of the three . 
She whom he addressed was a fine dark eyed girl , not exactly handsome , but capable of passing as such at a little distance , despite some coarseness of skin and fibre . 
She had a round and prominent bosom , full lips , perfect teeth , and the rich complexion of a Cochin hen's egg . 
That you'll never be told , said she deedily . 
Whoever did it was wasteful of other people's property . 
But you want to speak to me , I suppose ? Oh yes if you like to . 
Springing to her feet , she said Bring back what is lying there . 
Jude was now aware that no message on any matter connected with her father's business had prompted her signal to him . 
He set down his basket of tools , picked up the scrap of offal , beat a pathway for himself with his stick , and got over the hedge . 
They walked in parallel lines , one on each bank of the stream , towards the small plank bridge . 
This production of dimples at will was a not unknown operation , which many attempted , but only a few succeeded in accomplishing . 
You don't think I would shy things at you ? Oh no . 
We are doing this for my father , who naturally doesn't want anything thrown away . 
He makes that into dubbin . 
She nodded towards the fragment on the grass . 
What made either of the others throw it , I wonder ? Jude asked , politely accepting her assertion , though he had very large doubts as to its truth . 
Don't tell folk it was I , mind ! How can I ? I don't know your name . 
Shall I tell it to you ? Do ! Arabella Donn . 
I must have known it if I had often come this way . 
But I mostly go straight along the high road . 
My father is a pig breeder , and these girls are helping me wash the innerds for black puddings and such like . 
They talked a little more and a little more , as they stood regarding each other and leaning against the hand rail of the bridge . 
What a nice looking girl you are ! he murmured , though the words had not been necessary to express his sense of her magnetism . 
Ah , you should see me Sundays ! she said piquantly . 
I don't suppose I could ? he answered That's for you to think on . 
There's nobody after me just now , though there med be in a week or two . 
She had spoken this without a smile , and the dimples disappeared . 
Jude felt himself drifting strangely , but could not help it . 
Will you let me ? I don't mind . 
Next Sunday ? he hazarded . 
To morrow , that is ? Yes . 
Shall I call ? Yes . 
She brightened with a little glow of triumph , swept him almost tenderly with her eyes in turning , and retracing her steps down the brookside grass rejoined her companions . 
Jude Fawley shouldered his tool basket and resumed his lonely way , filled with an ardour at which he mentally stood at gaze . 
It had been no vestal who chose THAT missile for opening her attack on him . 
He was to meet this enkindling one of the other sex on the following Sunday . 
Meanwhile the girl had joined her companions , and she silently resumed her flicking and sousing of the chitterlings in the pellucid stream . 
Catched un , my dear ? laconically asked the girl called Anny . 
I wish I had thrown something else than that ! regretfully murmured Arabella . 
Lord ! he's nobody , though you med think so . 
He used to drive old Drusilla Fawley's bread cart out at Marygreen , till he 'prenticed himself at Alfredston . 
Since then he's been very stuck up , and always reading . 
He wants to be a scholar , they say . 
Oh , I don't care what he is , or anything about 'n . 
I could see it as you courted on the bridge , when he looked at 'ee as if he had never seen a woman before in his born days . 
Well , he's to be had by any woman who can get him to care for her a bit , if she likes to set herself to catch him the right way . 
It was Sunday afternoon , four and twenty hours after his meeting with Arabella Donn . 
He was proud of the book , having obtained it by boldly writing to its London publisher , a thing he had never done before . 
He had anticipated much pleasure in this afternoon's reading , under the quiet roof of his great aunt's house as formerly , where he now slept only two nights a week . 
He would not go out to meet her , after all . 
There was a something in her , too , which was very winning , apart from promises . 
He ought not to break faith with her . 
Even though he had only Sundays and week day evenings for reading he could afford one afternoon , seeing that other young men afforded so many . 
After to day he would never probably see her again . 
Indeed , it would be impossible , considering what his plans were . 
Three Greek words was no more heeded , and the predestinate Jude sprang up and across the room . 
Foreseeing such an event he had already arrayed himself in his best clothes . 
As he walked he looked at his watch . 
He could be back in two hours , easily , and a good long time would still remain to him for reading after tea . 
Here at the base of the chalk formation he neared the brook that oozed from it , and followed the stream till he reached her dwelling . 
A smell of piggeries came from the back , and the grunting of the originators of that smell . 
He entered the garden , and knocked at the door with the knob of his stick . 
Courting in such a business like aspect as it evidently wore to the speaker was the last thing he was thinking of . 
He was going to walk with her , perhaps kiss her but courting was too coolly purposeful to be anything but repugnant to his ideas . 
The door was opened and he entered , just as Arabella came downstairs in radiant walking attire . 
Take a chair , Mr. What's your name ? said her father , an energetic , black whiskered man , in the same businesslike tones Jude had heard from outside . 
I'd rather go out at once , wouldn't you ? she whispered to Jude . 
We'll walk up to the Brown House and back , we can do it in half an hour . 
Arabella looked so handsome amid her untidy surroundings that he felt glad he had come , and all the misgivings vanished that had hitherto haunted him . 
First they clambered to the top of the great down , during which ascent he had occasionally to take her hand to assist her . 
But he forgot them now . 
They reached the Brown House barn the point at which he had planned to turn back . 
It is a fire , said Arabella . 
Arabella said she would like some tea , and they entered an inn of an inferior class , and gave their order . 
As it was not for beer they had a long time to wait . 
It began to grow dusk . 
They could not wait longer , really , for the tea , they said . 
Yet what else can we do ? asked Jude . 
It is a three mile walk for you . 
I suppose we can have some beer , said Arabella . 
Somehow it seems odd to come to a public house for beer on a Sunday evening . 
Jude by this time wished he was out of such an uncongenial atmosphere but he ordered the beer , which was promptly brought . 
What's the matter with it ? he asked . 
I don't understand beer very much now , it is true . 
I like it well enough , but it is bad to read on , and I find coffee better . 
But this seems all right . 
Adulterated I can't touch it ! She mentioned three or four ingredients that she detected in the liquor beyond malt and hops , much to Jude's surprise . 
How much you know ! he said good humouredly . 
Nevertheless she returned to the beer and drank her share , and they went on their way . 
It was now nearly dark , and as soon as they had withdrawn from the lights of the town they walked closer together , till they touched each other . 
She wondered why he did not put his arm round her waist , but he did not he merely said what to himself seemed a quite bold enough thing Take my arm . 
She took it , thoroughly , up to the shoulder . 
He felt the warmth of her body against his , and putting his stick under his other arm held with his right hand her right as it rested in its place . 
Now we are well together , dear , aren't we ? he observed . 
Yes , said she adding to herself Rather mild ! How fast I have become ! he was thinking . 
Thus they walked till they reached the foot of the upland , where they could see the white highway ascending before them in the gloom . 
From this point the only way of getting to Arabella's was by going up the incline , and dipping again into her valley on the right . 
Before they had climbed far they were nearly run into by two men who had been walking on the grass unseen . 
These lovers you find 'em out o' doors in all seasons and weathers lovers and homeless dogs only , said one of the men as they vanished down the hill . 
Are we lovers ? asked Jude . 
But you can tell me ? For answer she inclined her head upon his shoulder . 
Jude took the hint , and encircling her waist with his arm , pulled her to him and kissed her . 
They walked now no longer arm in arm but , as she had desired , clasped together . 
After all , what did it matter since it was dark , said Jude to himself . 
When they were half way up the long hill they paused as by arrangement , and he kissed her again . 
They reached the top , and he kissed her once more . 
You can keep your arm there , if you would like to , she said gently . 
He did so , thinking how trusting she was . 
Thus they slowly went towards her home . 
He had left his cottage at half past three , intending to be sitting down again to the New Testament by half past five . 
It was nine o'clock when , with another embrace , he stood to deliver her up at her father's door . 
She asked him to come in , if only for a minute , as it would seem so odd otherwise , and as if she had been out alone in the dark . 
He gave way , and followed her in . 
Immediately that the door was opened he found , in addition to her parents , several neighbours sitting round . 
They all spoke in a congratulatory manner , and took him seriously as Arabella's intended partner . 
They did not belong to his set or circle , and he felt out of place and embarrassed . 
He had not meant this a mere afternoon of pleasant walking with Arabella , that was all he had meant . 
But that sense was only temporary Arabella soon re asserted her sway in his soul . 
He walked as if he felt himself to be another man from the Jude of yesterday . 
He went upstairs without a light , and the dim interior of his room accosted him with sad inquiry . 
He kept his impassioned doings a secret almost from himself . 
Arabella , on the contrary , made them public among all her friends and acquaintance . 
He was on the spot where he had given her the first kiss . 
As the sun had only just risen it was possible that nobody had passed there since . 
Jude looked on the ground and sighed . 
He looked closely , and could just discern in the damp dust the imprints of their feet as they had stood locked in each other's arms . 
She was not there now , and the embroidery of imagination upon the stuff of nature so depicted her past presence that a void was in his heart which nothing could fill . 
A pollard willow stood close to the place , and that willow was different from all other willows in the world . 
An hour and a half later Arabella came along the same way with her two companions of the Saturday . 
She passed unheedingly the scene of the kiss , and the willow that marked it , though chattering freely on the subject to the other two . 
And what did he tell 'ee next ? Then he said And she related almost word for word some of his tenderest speeches . 
If Jude had been behind the fence he would have felt not a little surprised at learning how very few of his sayings and doings on the previous evening were private . 
You've got him to care for 'ee a bit , 'nation if you han't ! murmured Anny judicially . 
I can't do without him . 
He's the sort of man I long for . 
What med be the right way ? she asked . 
Oh you don't know you don't ! said Sarah , the third girl . 
On my word I don't ! No further , that is , than by plain courting , and taking care he don't go too far ! The third girl looked at the second . 
She DON'T know ! 'Tis clear she don't ! said Anny . 
And having lived in a town , too , as one may say ! Well , we can teach 'ee som'at then , as well as you us . 
And how do you mean a sure way to gain a man ? Take me for an innocent , and have done wi' it ! As a husband . 
Then one went up close to Arabella , and , although nobody was near , imparted some information in a low tone , the other observing curiously the effect upon Arabella . 
Ah ! said the last named slowly . 
I own I didn't think of that way ! . 
But suppose he ISN'T honourable ? A woman had better not have tried it ! Nothing venture nothing have ! Besides , you make sure that he's honourable before you begin . 
You'd be safe enough with yours . 
I wish I had the chance ! Lots of girls do it or do you think they'd get married at all ? Arabella pursued her way in silent thought . 
I'll try it ! she whispered but not to them . 
Before quite reaching the homestead his alert eye perceived the top of her head moving quickly hither and thither over the garden hedge . 
The lines of her countenance changed from the rigidity of business to the softness of love when she saw Jude , and she bent her eyes languishingly upon him . 
The animals took a vantage of the pause by doubling and bolting out of the way . 
They were only put in this morning ! she cried , stimulated to pursue in spite of her lover's presence . 
They were drove from Spaddleholt Farm only yesterday , where Father bought 'em at a stiff price enough . 
They are wanting to get home again , the stupid toads ! Will you shut the garden gate , dear , and help me to get 'em in . 
There are no men folk at home , only Mother , and they'll be lost if we don't mind . 
He set himself to assist , and dodged this way and that over the potato rows and the cabbages . 
Every now and then they ran together , when he caught her for a moment an kissed her . 
The first pig was got back promptly the second with some difficulty the third a long legged creature , was more obstinate and agile . 
He plunged through a hole in the garden hedge , and into the lane . 
He'll be lost if I don't follow 'n ! said she . 
Come along with me ! She rushed in full pursuit out of the garden , Jude alongside her , barely contriving to keep the fugitive in sight . 
Occasionally they would shout to some boy to stop the animal , but he always wriggled past and ran on as before . 
Let me take your hand , darling , said Jude . 
You are getting out of breath . 
She gave him her now hot hand with apparent willingness , and they trotted along together . 
This comes of driving 'em home , she remarked . 
They always know the way back if you do that . 
They ought to have been carted over . 
By this time the pig had reached an unfastened gate admitting to the open down , across which he sped with all the agility his little legs afforded . 
From this summit he could be seen as a minute speck , following an unerring line towards his old home . 
It is no good ! cried Arabella . 
He'll be there long before we get there . 
It don't matter now we know he's not lost or stolen on the way . 
They'll see it is ours , and send un back . 
He reclined on his elbow near her . 
Well why don't you speak , deary ? I'm blown too . 
It was all up hill . 
They were in absolute solitude the most apparent of all solitudes , that of empty surrounding space . 
Nobody could be nearer than a mile to them without their seeing him . 
They were , in fact , on one of the summits of the county , and the distant landscape around Christminster could be discerned from where they lay . 
But Jude did not think of that then . 
Oh , I can see such a pretty thing up this tree , said Arabella . 
A sort of a caterpillar , of the most loveliest green and yellow you ever came across ! Where ? said Jude , sitting up . 
You can't see him there you must come here , said she . 
He bent nearer and put his head in front of hers . 
No I can't see it , he said . 
Why , on the limb there where it branches off close to the moving leaf there ! She gently pulled him down beside her . 
I don't see it , he repeated , the back of his head against her cheek . 
But I can , perhaps , standing up . 
He stood accordingly , placing himself in the direct line of her gaze . 
How stupid you are ! she said crossly , turning away her face . 
I don't care to see it , dear why should I ? he replied looking down upon her . 
Why ? I want you to let me kiss you . 
Jude followed and rejoined her . 
Thus they descended to the precincts of her father's homestead , and Arabella went in , nodding good bye to him with a supercilious , affronted air . 
I expect I took too much liberty with her , somehow , Jude said to himself , as he withdrew with a sigh and went on to Marygreen . 
On Sunday morning the interior of Arabella's home was , as usual , the scene of a grand weekly cooking , the preparation of the special Sunday dinner . 
Her father was shaving before a little glass hung on the mullion of the window , and her mother and Arabella herself were shelling beans hard by . 
A neighbour passed on her way home from morning service at the nearest church , and seeing Donn engaged at the window with the razor , nodded and came in . 
He's for Christminster , I hear , as soon as he can get there . 
Have you heard that lately quite lately ? asked Arabella with a jealous , tigerish indrawing of breath . 
Oh no ! But it has been known a long time that it is his plan . 
He's on'y waiting here for an opening . 
Ah well he must walk about with somebody , I s'pose . 
Young men don't mean much now a days . 
'Tis a sip here and a sip there with 'em . 
'Twas different in my time . 
When the gossip had departed Arabella said suddenly to her mother I want you and Father to go and inquire how the Edlins be , this evening after tea . 
Or no there's evening service at Fensworth you can walk to that . 
Oh ? What's up to night , then ? Nothing . 
Only I want the house to myself . 
He's shy and I can't get un to come in when you are here . 
I shall let him slip through my fingers if I don't mind , much as I care for 'n ! If it is fine we med as well go , since you wish . 
In the afternoon Arabella met and walked with Jude , who had now for weeks ceased to look into a book of Greek , Latin , or any other tongue . 
Up from the level lands below them floated the chime of church bells . 
Presently they were reduced to one note , which quickened , and stopped . 
Now we'll go back , said Arabella , who had attended to the sounds . 
So long as he was near her he minded little where he was . 
When they arrived at her house he said lingeringly I won't come in . 
Why are you in such a hurry to go in to night ? It is not near dark . 
Wait a moment , said she . 
She tried the handle of the door and found it locked . 
Ah they are gone to church , she added . 
And searching behind the scraper she found the key and unlocked the door . 
Now , you'll come in a moment ? she asked lightly . 
We shall be all alone . 
Certainly , said Jude with alacrity , the case being unexpectedly altered . 
Did he want any tea ? No , it was too late he would rather sit and talk to her . 
She took off her jacket and hat , and they sat down naturally enough close together . 
Don't touch me , please , she said softly . 
I am part egg shell . 
Or perhaps I had better put it in a safe place . 
She began unfastening the collar of her gown . 
What is it ? said her lover . 
An egg a cochin's egg . 
I am hatching a very rare sort . 
I carry it about everywhere with me , and it will get hatched in less than three weeks . 
Where do you carry it ? Just here . 
She put her hand into her bosom and drew out the egg , which was wrapped in wool , outside it being a piece of pig's bladder , in case of accidents . 
Having exhibited it to him she put it back , Now mind you don't come near me . 
I don't want to get it broke , and have to begin another . 
Why do you do such a strange thing ? It's an old custom . 
I suppose it is natural for a woman to want to bring live things into the world . 
It is very awkward for me just now , he said , laughing . 
There that's all you can have of me She had turned round her chair , and , reaching over the back of it , presented her cheek to him gingerly . 
Then there was a little struggle , Jude making a plunge for it and capturing it triumphantly . 
Her face flushed and becoming suddenly conscious he flushed also . 
You must find me first ! she cried . 
Her lover followed her as she withdrew . 
IX IT was some two months later in the year , and the pair had met constantly during the interval . 
Arabella seemed dissatisfied she was always imagining , and waiting , and wondering . 
One day she met the itinerant Vilbert . 
She , like all the cottagers thereabout , knew the quack well , and she began telling him of her experiences . 
Arabella had been gloomy , but before he left her she had grown brighter . 
That evening she kept an appointment with Jude , who seemed sad . 
I am going away , he said to her . 
I think I ought to go . 
I think it will be better both for you and for me . 
I wish some things had never begun ! I was much to blame , I know . 
But it is never too late to mend . 
How do you know it is not too late ? she said . 
That's all very well to say ! I haven't told you yet ! and she looked into his face with streaming eyes . 
What ? he asked , turning pale . 
It is a complete smashing up of my plans I mean my plans before I knew you , my dear . 
But what are they , after all ! Dreams about books , and degrees , and impossible fellowships , and all that . 
Certainly we'll marry we must ! That night he went out alone , and walked in the dark self communing . 
He knew well , too well , in the secret centre of his brain , that Arabella was not worth a great deal as a specimen of womankind . 
For his own soothing he kept up a factitious belief in her . 
His idea of her was the thing of most consequence , not Arabella herself , he sometimes said laconically . 
The banns were put in and published the very next Sunday . 
The people of the parish all said what a simple fool young Fawley was . 
All his reading had only come to this , that he would have to sell his books to buy saucepans . 
The parson who married them seemed to think it satisfactory too . 
What was as remarkable as the undertaking itself was the fact that nobody seemed at all surprised at what they swore . 
The prospects of the newly married couple were certainly not very brilliant even to the most sanguine mind . 
He , a stone mason's apprentice , nineteen years of age , was working for half wages till he should be out of his time . 
His wife was absolutely useless in a town lodging , where he at first had considered it would be necessary for them to live . 
But it was not the sort of life he had bargained for , and it was a long way to walk to and from Alfredston every day . 
A little chill overspread him at her first unrobing . 
What it wasn't your own ? he said , with a sudden distaste for her . 
Oh no it never is nowadays with the better class . 
Nonsense ! Perhaps not in towns . 
But in the country it is supposed to be different . 
Besides , you've enough of your own , surely ? Yes , enough as country notions go . 
Some people put me up to getting this , and I bought it just for a fancy . 
The more you have the better in Aldbrickham , which is a finer town than all your Christminsters . 
Every lady of position wears false hair the barber's assistant told me so . 
Others , alas , had an instinct towards artificiality in their very blood , and became adepts in counterfeiting at the first glimpse of it . 
However , perhaps there was no great sin in a woman adding to her hair , and he resolved to think no more of it . 
A new made wife can usually manage to excite interest for a few weeks , even though the prospects of the house hold ways and means are cloudy . 
As usual they laughed before talking the world seemed funny to them without saying it . 
So it turned out a good plan , you see ! remarked the girl to the wife . 
I knew it would with such as him . 
He's a dear good fellow , and you ought to be proud of un . 
I am , said Mrs. Fawley quietly . 
And when do you expect ? Ssh ! Not at all . 
What ! I was mistaken . 
Pooh he won't care ! He'll be glad I was wrong in what I said . 
He'll shake down , bless 'ee men always do . 
What can 'em do otherwise ? Married is married . 
The occasion was one evening at bedtime , and they were in their chamber in the lonely cottage by the wayside to which Jude walked home from his work every day . 
He had worked hard the whole twelve hours , and had retired to rest before his wife . 
When she came into the room he was between sleeping and waking , and was barely conscious of her undressing before the little looking glass as he lay . 
One action of hers , however , brought him to full cognition . 
Don't do that , Arabella ! he said suddenly . 
There is no harm in it , but I don't like to see you . 
Lord , I didn't know you were awake ! she said . 
How countrified you are ! That's nothing . 
Where did you learn it ? Nowhere that I know of . 
They used to stay without any trouble when I was at the public house but now they won't . 
My face was fatter then . 
I don't care about dimples . 
I don't think they improve a woman particularly a married woman , and of full sized figure like you . 
I don't care what most men think , if they do . 
How do you know ? I used to be told so when I was serving in the tap room . 
Ah that public house experience accounts for your knowing about the adulteration of the ale when we went and had some that Sunday evening . 
I thought when I married you that you had always lived in your father's house . 
You ought to have known better than that , and seen I was a little more finished than I could have been by staying where I was born . 
There was not much to do at home , and I was eating my head off , so I went away for three months . 
You'll soon have plenty to do now , dear , won't you ? How do you mean ? Why , of course little things to make . 
When will it be ? Can't you tell me exactly , instead of in such general terms as you have used ? Tell you ? Yes the date . 
What ? It was a mistake . 
He sat bolt upright in bed and looked at her . 
How can that be ? Women fancy wrong things sometimes . 
Good God ! Don't take on , dear . 
What's done can't be undone . 
I have no more to say ! He gave the answer simply , and lay down and there was silence between them . 
When Jude awoke the next morning he seemed to see the world with a different eye . 
As to the point in question he was compelled to accept her word in the circumstances he could not have acted otherwise while ordinary notions prevailed . 
The night had seemed strangely silent . 
I'm afraid the pig killer won't be able to come , he said to Arabella . 
You must get up and make the water hot , if you want Challow to scald him . 
Though I like singeing best . 
I'll get up , said Jude . 
I like the way of my own county . 
At half past six , the time of appointment with the butcher , the water boiled , and Jude's wife came downstairs . 
Is Challow come ? she asked . 
No. They waited , and it grew lighter , with the dreary light of a snowy dawn . 
She went out , gazed along the road , and returning said , He's not coming . 
Drunk last night , I expect . 
The snow is not enough to hinder him , surely ! Then we must put it off . 
It is only the water boiled for nothing . 
The snow may be deep in the valley . 
There's no more victuals for the pig . 
He ate the last mixing o' barleymeal yesterday morning . 
Yesterday morning ? What has he lived on since ? Nothing . 
What he has been starving ? Yes . 
We always do it the last day or two , to save bother with the innerds . 
What ignorance , not to know that ! That accounts for his crying so . 
Poor creature ! Well you must do the sticking there's no help for it . 
Or I'll do it myself I think I could . 
Though as it is such a big pig I had rather Challow had done it . 
However , his basket o' knives and things have been already sent on here , and we can use 'em . 
Of course you shan't do it , said Jude . 
I'll do it , since it must be done . 
A robin peered down at the preparations from the nearest tree , and , not liking the sinister look of the scene , flew away , though hungry . 
The animal's note changed its quality . 
It was not now rage , but the cry of despair long drawn , slow and hopeless . 
Upon my soul I would sooner have gone without the pig than have had this to do ! said Jude . 
A creature I have fed with my own hands . 
Don't be such a tender hearted fool ! There's the sticking knife the one with the point . 
Now whatever you do , don't stick un too deep . 
I'll stick him effectually , so as to make short work of it . 
You must not ! she cried . 
The meat must be well bled , and to do that he must die slow . 
We shall lose a shilling a score if the meat is red and bloody ! Just touch the vein , that's all . 
I was brought up to it , and I know . 
Every good butcher keeps un bleeding long . 
He ought to be eight or ten minutes dying , at least . 
He shall not be half a minute if I can help it , however the meat may look , said Jude determinedly . 
Scraping the bristles from the pig's upturned throat , as he had seen the butchers do , he slit the fat then plunged in the knife with all his might . 
The blood flowed out in a torrent instead of in the trickling stream she had desired . 
Make un stop that ! said Arabella . 
Such a noise will bring somebody or other up here , and I don't want people to know we are doing it ourselves . 
Picking up the knife from the ground whereon Jude had flung it , she slipped it into the gash , and slit the windpipe . 
The pig was instantly silent , his dying breath coming through the hole That's better , she said . 
It is a hateful business ! said he . 
The animal heaved in a final convulsion , and , despite the rope , kicked out with all his last strength . 
A tablespoonful of black clot came forth , the trickling of red blood having ceased for some seconds . 
That's it now he'll go , said she . 
There ! she cried , thoroughly in a passion . 
Now I can't make any blackpot . 
The lips and nostrils of the animal turned livid , then white , and the muscles of his limbs relaxed . 
Thank God ! Jude said . 
What's God got to do with such a messy job as a pig killing , I should like to know ! she said scornfully . 
I know , I know , said he . 
Suddenly they became aware of a voice at hand . 
'Tis well for 'ee to stand there and glane ! said Arabella . 
Owing to your being late the meat is blooded and half spoiled ! 'Twon't fetch so much by a shilling a score ! Challow expressed his contrition . 
You should have waited a bit he said , shaking his head , and not have done this in the delicate state , too , that you be in at present , ma'am . 
'Tis risking yourself too much . 
You needn't be concerned about that , said Arabella , laughing . 
Jude too laughed , but there was a strong flavour of bitterness in his amusement . 
Challow made up for his neglect of the killing by zeal in the scalding and scraping . 
No doubt he was , as his wife had called him , a tender hearted fool . 
He did not like the road to Alfredston now . 
It stared him cynically in the face . 
Yet he sometimes felt that by caring for books he was not escaping common place nor gaining rare ideas , every working man being of that taste now . 
When passing near the spot by the stream on which he had first made her acquaintance he one day heard voices just as he had done at that earlier time . 
They were quite unaware that the shed walls were so thin that he could hear their words as he passed . 
Howsomever , 'twas I put her up to it ! 'Nothing venture nothing have , I said . 
If I hadn't she'd no more have been his mis'ess than I. 'Tis my belief she knew there was nothing the matter when she told him she was . 
This made his arrival home rather late . 
Arabella however , was busy melting down lard from fat of the deceased pig , for she had been out on a jaunt all day , and so delayed her work . 
Dreading lest what he had heard should lead him to say something regrettable to her he spoke little . 
But Arabella was very talkative , and said among other things that she wanted some money . 
Seeing the book sticking out of his pocket she added that he ought to earn more . 
An apprentice's wages are not meant to be enough to keep a wife on , as a rule , my dear . 
Then you shouldn't have had one . 
Come , Arabella ! That's too bad , when you know how it came about . 
I'll declare afore Heaven that I thought what I told you was true . 
It was a good job for you that it wasn't so ! I don't mean that , he said hastily . 
I mean before that time . 
I know it was not your fault but those women friends of yours gave you bad advice . 
If they hadn't , or you hadn't taken it , we should at this moment have been free from a bond which , not to mince matters , galls both of us devilishly . 
It may be very sad , but it is true . 
Who's been telling you about my friends ? What advice ? I insist upon you telling me . 
Pooh I d rather not . 
But you shall you ought to . 
It is mean of 'ee not to ! Very well . 
And he hinted gently what had been revealed to him . 
But I don't wish to dwell upon it . 
Let us say no more about it . 
That was nothing , she said , laughing coldly . 
Every woman has a right to do such as that . 
I quite deny it , Bella . 
But when effects stretch so far she should not go and do that which entraps a man if he is honest , or herself if he is otherwise . 
What ought I to have done ? Given me time . 
Why do you fuss yourself about melting down that pig's fat to night ? Please put it away ! Then I must do it to morrow morning . 
I won't have them books here in the way ! she cried petulantly and seizing them one by one she began throwing them upon the floor . 
Leave my books alone ! he said . 
She continued deliberately to toss the books severally upon the floor , till Jude , incensed beyond bearing , caught her by the arms to make her leave off . 
Somehow , in going so , he loosened the fastening of her hair , and it rolled about her ears . 
Let me go ! she said . 
Promise to leave the books alone . 
Let me go ! she repeated . 
Promise ! After a pause I do . 
Jude relinquished his hold , and she crossed the room to the door , out of which she went with a set face , and into the highway . 
Here she began to saunter up and down , perversely pulling her hair into a worse disorder than he had caused , and unfastening several buttons of her gown . 
It was a fine Sunday morning , dry , clear and frosty , and the bells of Alfredston Church could be heard on the breeze from the north . 
One of the passers said in mock terror Good Lord deliver us ! See how he's served me ! she cried . 
Then he suddenly lost his heat . 
Illuminated with the sense that all was over between them , and that it mattered not what she did , or he , her husband stood still , regarding her . 
Going to ill use me on principle , as your father ill used your mother , and your father's sister ill used her husband ? she asked . 
All you be a queer lot as husbands and wives ! Jude fixed an arrested , surprised look on her . 
But she said no more , and continued her saunter till she was tired . 
He left the spot , and , after wandering vaguely a little while , walked in the direction of Marygreen . 
Here he called upon his great aunt , whose infirmities daily increased . 
Aunt did my father ill use my mother , and my aunt her husband ? said Jude abruptly , sitting down by the fire . 
She raised her ancient eyes under the rim of the by gone bonnet that she always wore . 
Who's been telling you that ? she said . 
I have heard it spoken of , and want to know all . 
You med so well , I s'pose though your wife I reckon 'twas she must have been a fool to open up that ! There isn't much to know after all . 
Your father and mother couldn't get on together , and they parted . 
Your mother soon afterwards died she drowned herself , in short , and your father went away with you to South Wessex , and never came here any more . 
Jude recalled his father's silence about North Wessex and Jude's mother , never speaking of either till his dying day . 
It was the same with your father's sister . 
Her husband offended her , and she so disliked living with him afterwards that she went away to London with her little maid . 
The Fawleys were not made for wedlock it never seemed to sit well upon us . 
There's sommat in our blood that won't take kindly to the notion of being bound to do what we do readily enough if not bound . 
That's why you ought to have hearkened to me , and not ha' married . 
Where did Father and Mother part by the Brown House , did you say ? A little further on where the road to Fenworth branches off , and the handpost stands . 
A gibbet once stood there not onconnected with our history . 
In the dusk of that evening Jude walked away from his old aunt's as if to go home . 
But as soon as he reached the open down he struck out upon it till he came to a large round pond . 
The frost continued , though it was not particularly sharp , and the larger stars overhead came out slow and flickering . 
Jude put one foot on the edge of the ice , and then the other it cracked under his weight but this did not deter him . 
He ploughed his way inward to the centre , the ice making sharp noises as he went . 
When just about the middle he looked around him and gave a jump . 
The cracking repeated itself but he did not go down . 
He jumped again , but the cracking had ceased . 
Jude went back to the edge , and stepped upon the ground . 
It was curious , he thought . 
What was he reserved for ? He supposed he was not a sufficiently dignified person for suicide . 
Peaceful death abhorred him as a subject , and would not take him . 
What could he do of a lower kind than self extermination what was there less noble , more in keeping with his present degraded position ? He could get drunk . 
Of course that was it he had forgotten . 
Drinking was the regular , stereotyped resource of the despairing worthless . 
He began to see now why some men boozed at inns . 
He struck down the hill northwards and came to an obscure public house . 
He called for liquor and drank briskly for an hour or more . 
The house was in darkness when he entered , and in his stumbling state it was some time before he could get a light . 
Then he found that , though the marks of pig dressing , of fats and scallops , were visible , the materials themselves had been taken away . 
A line written by his wife on the inside of an old envelope was pinned to the cotton blower of the fireplace HAVE GONE TO MY FRIENDS . 
All the next day he remained at home , and sent off the carcase of the pig to Alfredston . 
He then cleaned up the premises , locked the door , put the key in a place she would know if she came back , and returned to his masonry at Alfredston . 
At night when he again plodded home he found she had not visited the house . 
The next day went in the same way , and the next . 
Then there came a letter from her . 
That she had gone tired of him she frankly admitted . 
He was such a slow old coach , and she did not care for the sort of life he led . 
There was no prospect of his ever bettering himself or her . 
They had at last decided to go , and she proposed to go with them , if he had no objection . 
A woman of her sort would have more chance over there than in this stupid country . 
Jude replied that he had not the least objection to her going . 
He thought it a wise course , since she wished to go , and one that might be to the advantage of both . 
He enclosed in the packet containing the letter the money that had been realized by the sale of the pig , with all he had besides , which was not much . 
He then went into lodgings at Alfredston , and saw in a shopwindow the little handbill announcing the sale of his father in law's furniture . 
On the back was still to be read , JUDE TO ARABELLA , with the date . 
She must have thrown it in with the rest of her property at the auction . 
The frame is a very useful one , if you take out the likeness . 
You shall have it for a shilling . 
He paid the shilling , took the photograph away with him , and burnt it , frame and all , when he reached his lodging . 
Two or three days later he heard that Arabella and her parents had departed . 
It seemed to be his own again . 
He could not realize himself . 
Yet I am a man , he said . 
More , I have arrived at the still riper stage of having disagreed with her , disliked her , had a scuffle with her , and parted from her . 
He remembered then that he was standing not far from the spot at which the parting between his father and his mother was said to have occurred . 
A little further on was the summit whence Christminster , or what he had taken for that city , had seemed to be visible . 
A milestone , now as always , stood at the roadside hard by . 
Jude drew near it , and felt rather than read the mileage to the city . 
He remembered that once on his way home he had proudly cut with his keen new chisel an inscription on the back of that milestone , embodying his aspirations . 
It had been done in the first week of his apprenticeship , before he had been diverted from his purposes by an unsuitable woman . 
He wondered if the inscription were legible still , and going to the back of the milestone brushed away the nettles . 
He might battle with his evil star , and follow out his original intention . 
By moving to a spot a little way off he uncovered the horizon in a north easterly direction . 
There actually rose the faint halo , a small dim nebulousness , hardly recognizable save by the eye of faith . 
It was enough for him . 
He would go to Christminster as soon as the term of his apprenticeship expired . 
He returned to his lodgings in a better mood , and said his prayers . 
Part Second AT CHRISTMINSTER Save his own soul he hath no star . 
Notitiam primosque gradus vicinia fecit Tempore crevit amor . 
He was walking towards Christminster City , at a point a mile or two to the south west of it . 
Jude would now have been described as a young man with a forcible , meditative , and earnest rather than handsome cast of countenance . 
In London he would probably have become specialized and have made himself a moulding mason , a foliage sculptor perhaps a statuary . 
The ultimate impulse to come had had a curious origin one more nearly related to the emotional side of him than to the intellectual , as is often the case with young men . 
He had asked who she was . 
His aunt would not give him the photograph . 
But it haunted him and ultimately formed a quickening ingredient in his latent intent of following his friend the school master thither . 
He now paused at the top of a crooked and gentle declivity , and obtained his first near view of the city . 
The buildings now lay quiet in the sunset , a vane here and there on their many spires and domes giving sparkle to a picture of sober secondary and tertiary hues . 
He was a species of Dick Whittington whose spirit was touched to finer issues than a mere material gain . 
He went along the outlying streets with the cautious tread of an explorer . 
He saw nothing of the real city in the suburbs on this side . 
Here he installed himself , and having had some tea sallied forth . 
It was a windy , whispering , moonless night . 
To guide himself he opened under a lamp a map he had brought . 
The breeze ruffled and fluttered it , but he could see enough to decide on the direction he should take to reach the heart of the place . 
After many turnings he came up to the first ancient mediaeval pile that he had encountered . 
It was a college , as he could see by the gateway . 
He entered it , walked round , and penetrated to dark corners which no lamplight reached . 
Close to this college was another and a little further on another and then he began to be encircled as it were with the breath and sentiment of the venerable city . 
When he passed objects out of harmony with its general expression he allowed his eyes to slip over them as if he did not see them . 
A bell began clanging , and he listened till a hundred and one strokes had sounded . 
He must have made a mis take , he thought it was meant for a hundred . 
It seemed impossible that modern thought could house itself in such decrepit and superseded chambers . 
He drew his breath pensively , and , seeming thus almost his own ghost , gave his thoughts to the other ghostly presences with which the nooks were haunted . 
Some of them , by the accidents of his reading , loomed out in his fancy disproportionately large by comparison with the rest . 
In the gloom it was as if he ran against them without feeling their bodily frames . 
The streets were now deserted , but on account of these things he could not go in . 
A keener regard attached to the prelates , by reason of his own former hopes . 
A voice reached him out of the shade a real and local voice You've been a settin' a long time on that plinth stone , young man . 
What med you be up to ? It came from a policeman who had been observing Jude without the latter observing him . 
As he drew towards sleep various memorable words of theirs that he had just been conning seemed spoken by them in muttering utterances some audible , some unintelligible to him . 
was now apostrophizing her thus Beautiful city ! so venerable , so lovely , so unravaged by the fierce intellectual life of our century , so serene ! . 
Her ineffable charm keeps ever calling us to the true goal of all of us , to the ideal , to perfection . 
Another voice was that of the Corn Law convert , whose phantom he had just seen in the quadrangle with a great bell . 
The sages of Greece and Rome turned aside from the awful spectacle , and appeared unconscious of any alterations in the moral or physical government of the world . 
Then the shade of the poet , the last of the optimists How the world is made for each of us ! . 
And each of the Many helps to recruit The life of the race by a general plan . 
Then one of the three enthusiasts he had seen just now , the author of the APOLOGIA My argument was . 
that absolute certitude as to the truths of natural theology was the result of an assemblage of concurring and converging probabilities . 
that probabilities which did not reach to logical certainty might create a mental certitude . 
He did not wake till morning . 
The ghostly past seemed to have gone , and everything spoke of to day . 
He started up in bed , thinking he had overslept himself and then said By Jove I had quite forgotten my sweet faced cousin , and that she's here all the time ! . 
and my old schoolmaster , too . 
His words about his schoolmaster had , perhaps , less zest in them than his words concerning his cousin . 
II NECESSARY meditations on the actual , including the mean bread and cheese question , dissipated the phantasmal for a while , and compelled Jude to smother high thinkings under immediate needs . 
He had to get up , and seek for work , manual work the only kind deemed by many of its professors to be work at all . 
The spirits of the great men had disappeared . 
What at night had been perfect and ideal was by day the more or less defective real . 
Cruelties , insults , had , he perceived , been inflicted on the aged erections . 
The condition of several moved him as he would have been moved by maimed sentient beings . 
They were wounded , broken , sloughing off their outer shape in the deadly struggle against years , weather , and man . 
The rottenness of these historical documents reminded him that he was not , after all , hastening on to begin the morning practically as he had intended . 
He had come to work , and to live by work , and the morning had nearly gone . 
It was , in one sense , encouraging to think that in a place of crumbling stones there must be plenty for one of his trade to do in the business of renovation . 
He asked his way to the workyard of the stone mason whose name had been given him at Alfredston and soon heard the familiar sound of the rubbers and chisels . 
The yard was a little centre of regeneration . 
Here , with keen edges and smooth curves , were forms in the exact likeness of those he had seen abraded and time eaten on the walls . 
These were the ideas in modern prose which the lichened colleges presented in old poetry . 
Even some of those antiques might have been called prose when they were new . 
They had done nothing but wait , and had become poetical . 
How easy to the smallest building how impossible to most men . 
But he lost it under stress of his old idea . 
He would accept any employment which might be offered him on the strength of his late employer's recommendation but he would accept it as a provisional thing only . 
This was his form of the modern vice of unrest . 
Moreover he perceived that at best only copying , patching and imitating went on here which he fancied to be owing to some temporary and local cause . 
The deadly animosity of contemporary logic and vision towards so much of what he held in reverence was not yet revealed to him . 
How he wished he had that pretty portrait of her ! At last he wrote to his aunt to send it . 
She did so , with a request , however , that he was not to bring disturbance into the family by going to see the girl or her relations . 
Jude , a ridiculously affectionate fellow , promised nothing , put the photograph on the mantel piece , kissed it he did not know why and felt more at home . 
She seemed to look down and preside over his tea . 
It was cheering the one thing uniting him to the emotions of the living city . 
There remained the schoolmaster probably now a reverend parson . 
But he could not possibly hunt up such a respectable man just yet so raw and unpolished was his condition , so precarious were his fortunes . 
Thus he still remained in loneliness . 
Although people moved round him he virtually saw none . 
Not as yet having mingled with the active life of the place it was largely non existent to him . 
It was not till now , when he found himself actually on the spot of his enthusiasm , that Jude perceived how far away from the object of that enthusiasm he really was . 
The conversation of some of the more thoughtful among them seemed oftentimes , owing to his long and persistent preparation for this place , to be peculiarly akin to his own thoughts . 
Yet he was as far from them as if he had been at the antipodes . 
Whatever they were to him , he to them was not on the spot at all and yet he had fancied he would be close to their lives by coming there . 
But the future lay ahead after all and if he could only be so fortunate as to get into good employment he would put up with the inevitable . 
So he thanked God for his health and strength , and took courage . 
For the present he was outside the gates of everything , colleges included perhaps some day he would be inside . 
Those palaces of light and leading he might some day look down on the world through their panes . 
At length he did receive a message from the stone mason's yard that a job was waiting for him . 
It was his first encouragement , and he closed with the offer promptly . 
First he bought a shaded lamp for four and six pence , and obtained a good light . 
Then he got pens , paper , and such other necessary books as he had been unable to obtain elsewhere . 
From his window he could perceive the spire of the cathedral , and the ogee dome under which resounded the great bell of the city . 
The tall tower , tall belfry windows , and tall pinnacles of the college by the bridge he could also get a glimpse of by going to the staircase . 
These objects he used as stimulants when his faith in the future was dim . 
Like enthusiasts in general he made no inquiries into details of procedure . 
Picking up general notions from casual acquaintance , he never dwelt upon them . 
For wisdom is a defence , and money is a defence but the excellency of knowledge is , that wisdom giveth life to them that have it . 
His desire absorbed him , and left no part of him to weigh its practicability . 
Sue's father , his aunt believed , had gone back to London , but the girl remained at Christminster . 
He ventured to enter on a trivial errand , and having made his purchase lingered on the scene . 
The shop seemed to be kept entirely by women . 
He felt very shy of looking at the girl in the desk she was so pretty that he could not believe it possible that she should belong to him . 
Then she spoke to one of the two older women behind the counter and he recognized in the accents certain qualities of his own voice softened and sweetened , but his own . 
What was she doing ? He stole a glance round . 
Before her lay a piece of zinc , cut to the shape of a scroll three or four feet long , and coated with a dead surface paint on one side . 
Her presence here was now fairly enough explained , her skill in work of this sort having no doubt been acquired from her father's occupation as an ecclesiastical worker in metal . 
The lettering on which she was engaged was clearly intended to be fixed up in some chancel to assist devotion . 
It would have been easy to speak to her there and then , but it seemed scarcely honourable towards his aunt to disregard her request so incontinently . 
So Jude gave no sign . 
He would not call upon Sue just yet . 
He had other reasons against doing so when he had walked away . 
She seemed so dainty beside himself in his rough working jacket and dusty trousers that he felt he was as yet unready to encounter her , as he had felt about Mr. Phillotson . 
Thus he kept watch over her , and liked to feel she was there . 
The consciousness of her living presence stimulated him . 
But she remained more or less an ideal character , about whose form he began to weave curious and fantastic day dreams . 
Standing in position the head man said , Spaik when he heave ! He ho ! And they heaved . 
She no more observed his presence than that of the dust motes which his manipulations raised into the sunbeams . 
When she was gone he continued his work , reflecting on her . 
He had been so caught by her influence that he had taken no count of her general mould and build . 
He remembered now that she was not a large figure , that she was light and slight , of the type dubbed elegant . 
That was about all he had seen . 
There was nothing statuesque in her all was nervous motion . 
She was mobile , living , yet a painter might not have called her handsome or beautiful . 
But the much that she was surprised him . 
She was quite a long way removed from the rusticity that was his . 
How could one of his cross grained , unfortunate , almost accursed stock , have contrived to reach this pitch of niceness ? London had done it , he supposed . 
He affected to think of her quite in a family way , since there were crushing reasons why he should not and could not think of her in any other . 
The first reason was that he was married , and it would be wrong . 
The second was that they were cousins . 
It was not well for cousins to fall in love even when circumstances seemed to favour the passion . 
She did not come , and he awaited her in the afternoon , which was finer . 
To see her , and to be himself unseen and unknown , was enough for him at present . 
He lingered awhile in the vestibule , and the service was some way advanced when he was put into a seat . 
In the dim light and the baffling glare of the clerestory windows he could discern the opposite worshippers indistinctly only , but he saw that Sue was among them . 
And yet it was the ordinary psalm for the twenty fourth evening of the month . 
Though he was loth to suspect it , some people might have said to him that the atmosphere blew as distinctly from Cyprus as from Galilee . 
Jude waited till she had left her seat and passed under the screen before he himself moved . 
She did not look towards him , and by the time he reached the door she was half way down the broad path . 
Being dressed up in his Sunday suit he was inclined to follow her and reveal himself . 
It would put all thought of a tender wish on his part out of Sue's mind , and make her intercourse with him free and fearless . 
It was with some heartache that he saw how little he cared for the freedom and fearlessness that would result in her from such knowledge . 
It was one of those cloudless days which sometimes occur in Wessex and elsewhere between days of cold and wet , as if intercalated by caprice of the weather god . 
She went along for a mile or two until she came to much higher ground than that of the city she had left behind her . 
The man rose , and , seeing her , politely took off his cap , and cried I i i mages ! in an accent that agreed with his appearance . 
First he offered her his smaller wares the busts of kings and queens , then a minstrel , then a winged Cupid . 
How much are these two ? she said , touching with her finger the Venus and the Apollo the largest figures on the tray . 
He said she should have them for ten shillings . 
I cannot afford that , said Sue . 
She offered considerably less , and to her surprise the image man drew them from their wire stay and handed them over the stile . 
She clasped them as treasures . 
When they were paid for , and the man had gone , she began to be concerned as to what she should do with them . 
They seemed so very large now that they were in her possession , and so very naked . 
Being of a nervous temperament she trembled at her enterprise . 
When she handled them the white pipeclay came off on her gloves and jacket . 
Well , anything is better than those everlasting church fallals ! she said . 
But she was still in a trembling state , and seemed almost to wish she had not bought the figures . 
Silas , in the suburb of Beersheba before mentioned , which Jude also had begun to attend . 
She wore a cross and beads round her neck as her only ornament , and knew the Christian Year by heart . 
Something you have been buying , Miss Bridehead ? she asked , regarding the enwrapped objects . 
Yes just something to ornament my room , said Sue . 
What is it ? How bulky ! She tore a little hole , about as big as a wafer , in the brown paper , and tried to peep in . 
Why , statuary ? Two figures ? Where did you get them ? Oh I bought them of a travelling man who sells casts Two saints ? Yes . 
Well now come down to tea , and go and finish that organ text , if there's light enough afterwards . 
It was a volume of Gibbon , and she read the chapter dealing with the reign of Julian the Apostate . 
Presently she put out the candles , undressed , and finally extinguished her own light . 
On one of these occasions the church clocks struck some small hour . 
It fell upon the ears of another person who sat bending over his books at a not very distant spot in the same city . 
Just then he was earnestly reading from his Griesbach's text . 
The next time that he saw her was when he was on a ladder executing a job of this sort inside one of the churches . 
He did not observe till the service was half over that one of the women was Sue , who had perforce accompanied the elderly Miss Fontover thither . 
But it was also obvious that man could not live by work alone that the particular man Jude , at any rate , wanted something to love . 
Some men would have rushed incontinently to her , snatched the pleasure of easy friendship which she could hardly refuse , and have left the rest to chance . 
Not so Jude at first . 
To be sure she was almost an ideality to him still . 
Perhaps to know her would be to cure himself of this unexpected and unauthorized passion . 
A voice whispered that , though he desired to know her , he did not desire to be cured . 
There was not the least doubt that from his own orthodox point of view the situation was growing immoral . 
But much as he wished to be an exemplar in these things he could not get on . 
It was quite impossible , he found , to ask to be delivered from temptation when your heart's desire was to be tempted unto seventy times seven . 
After all , he said , it is not altogether an EROTOLEPSY that is the matter with me , as at that first time . 
I can see that she is exceptionally bright and it is partly a wish for intellectual sympathy , and a craving for loving kindness in my solitude . 
Thus he went on adoring her , fearing to realize that it was human perversity . 
For whatever Sue's virtues , talents , or ecclesiastical saturation , it was certain that those items were not at all the cause of his affection for her . 
That's a nice girl , said one of the men known as Uncle Joe . 
Who is she ? asked another . 
I don't know I've seen her about here and there . 
Why , yes , she's the daughter of that clever chap Bridehead who did all the wrought ironwork at St . 
Silas' ten years ago , and went away to London afterwards . 
I don't know what he's doing now not much I fancy as she's come back here . 
Meanwhile the young woman had knocked at the office door and asked if Mr. Jude Fawley was at work in the yard . 
It so happened that Jude had gone out somewhere or other that afternoon , which information she received with a look of disappointment , and went away immediately . 
He had no longer any thought of a conscientious avoidance of her , and resolved to call upon her that very evening . 
Sue's was of the most artless and natural kind . 
She addressed him as her dear cousin Jude said she had only just learnt by the merest accident that he was living in Christminster , and reproached him with not letting her know . 
They might have had such nice times together , she said , for she was thrown much upon herself , and had hardly any congenial friend . 
But now there was every probability of her soon going away , so that the chance of companionship would be lost perhaps for ever . 
A cold sweat overspread Jude at the news that she was going away . 
That was a contingency he had never thought of , and it spurred him to write all the more quickly to her . 
He would meet her that very evening , he said , one hour from the time of writing , at the cross in the pavement which marked the spot of the Martyrdoms . 
It was , in fact , the country custom to meet thus , and nothing else had occurred to him . 
Arabella had been met in the same way , unfortunately , and it might not seem respectable to a dear girl like Sue . 
However , it could not be helped now , and he moved towards the point a few minutes before the hour , under the glimmer of the newly lighted lamps . 
The broad street was silent , and almost deserted , although it was not late . 
He saw a figure on the other side , which turned out to be hers , and they both converged towards the crossmark at the same moment . 
Before either had reached it she called out to him I am not going to meet you just there , for the first time in my life ! Come further on . 
The voice , though positive and silvery , had been tremulous . 
I am sorry that I asked you to meet me , and didn't call , began Jude with the bashfulness of a lover . 
But I thought it would save time if we were going to walk . 
Oh I don't mind that , she said with the freedom of a friend . 
I have really no place to ask anybody in to . 
What I meant was that the place you chose was so horrid I suppose I ought not to say horrid I mean gloomy and inauspicious in its associations . 
But isn't it funny to begin like this , when I don't know you yet ? She looked him up and down curiously , though Jude did not look much at her . 
You seem to know me more than I know you , she added . 
Yes I have seen you now and then . 
And you knew who I was , and didn't speak ? And now I am going away ! Yes . 
I have hardly any other friend . 
I have , indeed , one very old friend here somewhere , but I don't quite like to call on him just yet . 
I wonder if you know anything of him Mr. Phillotson ? A parson somewhere about the county I think he is . 
No I only know of one Mr. Phillotson . 
He lives a little way out in the country , at Lumsdon . 
Ah ! I wonder if he's the same . 
As we are going to take a walk , suppose we go and call upon him ? said Jude suddenly . 
She agreed , and they went along up a hill , and through some prettily wooded country . 
Presently the embattled tower and square turret of the church rose into the sky , and then the school house . 
They inquired of a person in the street if Mr. Phillotson was likely to be at home , and were informed that he was always at home . 
It created in him at the same time a sympathy with Phillotson as an obviously much chastened and disappointed man . 
Jude told him his name , and said he had come to see him as an old friend who had been kind to him in his youthful days . 
I don't remember you in the least , said the school master thoughtfully . 
It was out at Marygreen , said Jude , wishing he had not come . 
I was there a short time . 
And is this an old pupil , too ? No that's my cousin . 
I wrote to you for some grammars , if you recollect , and you sent them ? Ah yes ! I do dimly recall that incident . 
It was very kind of you to do it . 
And it was you who first started me on that course . 
I remember I thought all that privately but I wonder I did not keep my own counsel . 
The idea was given up years ago . 
I have never forgotten it . 
It was that which brought me to this part of the country , and out here to see you to night . 
Come in , said Phillotson . 
And your cousin , too . 
They entered the parlour of the school house , where there was a lamp with a paper shade , which threw the light down on three or four books . 
The old friendship was imperceptibly renewed , the schoolmaster speaking of his experiences , and the cousins of theirs . 
Meanwhile , he said , he was comfortable in his present position , though he was in want of a pupil teacher . 
They did not stay to supper , Sue having to be indoors before it grew late , and the road was retraced to Christminster . 
Though they had talked of nothing more than general subjects , Jude was surprised to find what a revelation of woman his cousin was to him . 
She was so vibrant that everything she did seemed to have its source in feeling . 
Why must you leave Christminster ? he said regretfully . 
How can you do otherwise than cling to a city in whose history such men as Newman , Pusey , Ward , Keble , loom so large ! Yes they do . 
Though how large do they loom in the history of the world ? . 
What a funny reason for caring to stay ! I should never have thought of it ! She laughed . 
Well I must go , she continued . 
Miss Fontover , one of the partners whom I serve , is offended with me , and I with her and it is best to go . 
How did that happen ? She broke some statuary of mine . 
Oh ? Wilfully ? Yes . 
No , she didn't do that . 
She saw the matter quite differently . 
Ah ! Then I am surprised ! Yes . 
It was for quite some other reason that she didn't like my patron saints . 
Why don't you try teaching again ? You once did , I heard . 
I never thought of resuming it for I was getting on as an art designer . 
Now I must go in . 
Good bye , dear Jude ! I am so glad we have met at last . 
The school master was unprepared for such a proposal . 
What I rather wanted was a second year's transfer , as it is called , he said . 
Of course your cousin would do , personally but she has had no experience . 
The arrangement had been concluded very quickly . 
A pupil teacher who was to have been transferred to Mr. Phillotson's school had failed him , and Sue had been taken as stop gap . 
All such provisional arrangements as these could only last till the next annual visit of H. M. Inspector , whose approval was necessary to make them permanent . 
At twenty minutes to nine she did cross , a light hat tossed on her head and he watched her as a curiosity . 
A new emanation , which had nothing to do with her skill as a teacher , seemed to surround her this morning . 
He went to the school also , and Sue remained governing her class at the other end of the room , all day under his eye . 
She certainly was an excellent teacher . 
The regulation was , indeed , not easy to evade , for there was no other sitting room in the dwelling . 
Phillotson was not really thinking of the arithmetic at all , but of her , in a novel way which somehow seemed strange to him as preceptor . 
Perhaps she knew that he was thinking of her thus . 
For a few weeks their work had gone on with a monotony which in itself was a delight to him . 
The afternoon was one of sun and dust , and when they entered the exhibition room few people were present but themselves . 
The spot , he said , was Calvary . 
How does anybody know that Jerusalem was like this in the time of Christ ? I am sure this man doesn't . 
It is made after the best conjectural maps , based on actual visits to the city as it now exists . 
I fancy we have had enough of Jerusalem , she said , considering we are not descended from the Jews . 
There was nothing first rate about the place , or people , after all as there was about Athens , Rome , Alexandria , and other old cities . 
Look at your cousin Jude , continued the schoolmaster . 
He doesn't think we have had enough of Jerusalem ! Ah I didn't see him ! she cried in her quick , light voice . 
Jude how seriously you are going into it ! Jude started up from his reverie , and saw her . 
Oh Sue ! he said , with a glad flush of embarrassment . 
Your cousin is so terribly clever that she criticizes it unmercifully , said Phillotson , with good humoured satire . 
She is quite sceptical as to its correctness . 
No , Mr. Phillotson , I am not altogether ! I hate to be what is called a clever girl there are too many of that sort now ! answered Sue sensitively . 
I only meant I don't know what I meant except that it was what you don't understand ! I know your meaning , said Jude ardently . 
And I think you are quite right . 
I thought you took no interest in the model , and hardly looked at it ? he said . 
I hardly did , said she , but I remembered that much of it . 
It is more than I had remembered myself . 
To Mr. Phillotson the surprise was not great like the lady in the story he had been played that trick too many times to be unprepared . 
She turned , and realized that an oft dreaded moment had come . 
The effect upon her timidity was such that she uttered a cry of fright . 
Phillotson , with a strange instinct of solicitude quite beyond his control , was at her side just in time to prevent her falling from faintness . 
She found him holding her hand . 
You are the best teacher ever I had ! He looked so gently at her that she was moved , and regretted that she had upbraided him . 
When she was better she went home . 
Jude in the meantime had been waiting impatiently for Friday . 
On turning the corner and entering the village the first sight that greeted his eyes was that of two figures under one umbrella coming out of the vicarage gate . 
He was too far back for them to notice him , but he knew in a moment that they were Sue and Phillotson . 
The latter was holding the umbrella over her head , and they had evidently been paying a visit to the vicar probably on some business connected with the school work . 
She did not look absolutely behind her , and therefore did not see Jude , who sank into the hedge like one struck with a blight . 
There he remained hidden till they had reached Sue's cottage and she had passed in , Phillotson going on to the school hard by . 
Oh , he's too old for her too old ! cried Jude in all the terrible sickness of hopeless , handicapped love . 
Was he not Arabella's ? He was unable to go on further , and retraced his steps towards Christminster . 
Every tread of his feet seemed to say to him that he must on no account stand in the schoolmaster's way with Sue . 
Phillotson was perhaps twenty years her senior , but many a happy marriage had been made in such conditions of age . 
The ironical clinch to his sorrow was given by the thought that the intimacy between his cousin and the schoolmaster had been brought about entirely by himself . 
His aunt was now unable to leave her bed , and a great part of Jude's short day was occupied in making arrangements for her comfort . 
It was not till the time had nearly come for him to leave that he obtained a quiet talk with her , and his words tended insensibly towards his cousin . 
Was Sue born here ? She was in this room . 
They were living here at that time . 
What made 'ee ask that ? Oh I wanted to know . 
Now you've been seeing her ! said the harsh old woman . 
And what did I tell 'ee ? Well that I was not to see her . 
Have you gossiped with her ? Yes . 
Then don't keep it up . 
She was brought up by her father to hate her mother's family and she'll look with no favour upon a working chap like you a townish girl as she's become by now . 
I never cared much about her . 
A pert little thing , that's what she was too often , with her tight strained nerves . 
Many's the time I've smacked her for her impertinence . 
She was twelve if a day . 
But now she's older she's of a thoughtful , quivering , tender nature , and as sensitive as Jude ! cried his aunt , springing up in bed . 
Don't you be a fool about her ! No , no , of course not . 
Your marrying that woman Arabella was about as bad a thing as a man could possibly do for himself by trying hard . 
But she's gone to the other side of the world , and med never trouble you again . 
And there'll be a worse thing if you , tied and bound as you be , should have a fancy for Sue . 
If your cousin is civil to you , take her civility for what it is worth . 
But anything more than a relation's good wishes it is stark madness for 'ee to give her . 
If she's townish and wanton it med bring 'ee to ruin . 
You too , Jude , had the same trick as a child of seeming to see things in the air . 
The neighbour told also of Sue's accomplishments in other kinds She was not exactly a tomboy , you know but she could do things that only boys do , as a rule . 
All boys except herself and then they'd cheer her , and then she'd say , 'Don't be saucy , boys , and suddenly run indoors . 
They'd try to coax her out again . 
These retrospective visions of Sue only made Jude the more miserable that he was unable to woo her , and he left the cottage of his aunt that day with a heavy heart . 
He would fain have glanced into the school to see the room in which Sue's little figure had so glorified itself but he checked his desire and went on . 
It being Sunday evening some villagers who had known him during his residence here were standing in a group in their best clothes . 
Jude was startled by a salute from one of them Ye've got there right enough , then ! Jude showed that he did not understand . 
You are wrong , John there is more going on than meets the eye of a man walking through the streets . 
It is a unique centre of thought and religion the intellectual and spiritual granary of this country . 
All that silence and absence of goings on is the stillness of infinite motion the sleep of the spinning top , to borrow the simile of a well known writer . 
Oh , well , it med be all that , or it med not . 
You've j'ined a college by this time , I suppose ? Ah , no ! said Jude . 
I am almost as far off that as ever . 
How so ? Jude slapped his pocket . 
Just what we thought ! Such places be not for such as you only for them with plenty o' money . 
There you are wrong , said Jude , with some bitterness . 
He was set regarding his prospects in a cold northern light . 
He had lately felt that he could not quite satisfy himself in his Greek in the Greek of the dramatists particularly . 
So fatigued was he sometimes after his day's work that he could not maintain the critical attention necessary for thorough application . 
He felt that he wanted a coach a friend at his elbow to tell him in a moment what sometimes would occupy him a weary month in extracting from unanticipative , clumsy books . 
It was decidedly necessary to consider facts a little more closely than he had done of late . 
It would have been better never to have embarked in the scheme at all than to do it without seeing clearly where I am going , or what I am aiming at . 
This hovering outside the walls of the colleges , as if expecting some arm to be stretched out from them to lift me inside , won't do ! I must get special information . 
The next week accordingly he sought it . 
The gentleman came nearer , and Jude looked anxiously at his face . 
It seemed benign , considerate , yet rather reserved . 
To these five he addressed letters , briefly stating his difficulties , and asking their opinion on his stranded situation . 
When the letters were posted Jude mentally began to criticize them he wished they had not been sent . 
It is just one of those intrusive , vulgar , pushing , applications which are so common in these days , he thought . 
Perhaps that's what I am ! Nevertheless , he found himself clinging to the hope of some reply as to his one last chance of redemption . 
He waited day after day , saying that it was perfectly absurd to expect , yet expecting . 
While he waited he was suddenly stirred by news about Phillotson . 
Phillotson was giving up the school near Christminster , for a larger one further south , in Mid Wessex . 
And the tender relations between Phillotson and the young girl of whom Jude was passionately enamoured effectually made it repugnant to Jude's tastes to apply to Phillotson for advice on his own scheme . 
By indirect inquiries he soon perceived clearly what he had long uneasily suspected , that to qualify himself for certain open scholarships and exhibitions was the only brilliant course . 
But to do this a good deal of coaching would be necessary , and much natural ability . 
The other course , that of buying himself in , so to speak , seemed the only one really open to men like him , the difficulty being simply of a material kind . 
He saw what a curious and cunning glamour the neighbourhood of the place had exercised over him . 
Let me only get there , he had said with the fatuousness of Crusoe over his big boat , and the rest is but a matter of time and energy . 
Well , all that was clear to him amounted to this , that the whole scheme had burst up , like an iridescent soap bubble , under the touch of a reasoned inquiry . 
And the painful details of his awakening to a sense of his limitations should now be spared her as far as possible . 
After all , she had only know a little part of the miserable struggle in which he had been engaged thus unequipped , poor , and unforeseeing . 
He always remembered the appearance of the afternoon on which he awoke from his dream . 
Not quite knowing what to do with himself , he went up to an octagonal chamber in the lantern of a singularly built theatre that was set amidst this quaint and singular city . 
It had windows all round , from which an outlook over the whole town and its edifices could be gained . 
Jude's eyes swept all the views in succession , meditatively , mournfully , yet sturdily . 
Those buildings and their associations and privileges were not for him . 
But for this blow he might have borne with his fate . 
With Sue as companion he could have renounced his ambitions with a smile . 
Without her it was inevitable that the reaction from the long strain to which he had subjected himself should affect him disastrously . 
Phillotson had no doubt passed through a similar intellectual disappointment to that which now enveloped him . 
But the schoolmaster had been since blest with the consolation of sweet Sue , while for him there was no consoler . 
Descending to the streets , he went listlessly along till he arrived at an inn , and entered it . 
Here he drank several glasses of beer in rapid succession , and when he came out it was night . 
ONE at last ! cried Jude . 
The communication was brief , and not exactly what he had expected though it really was from the master in person . 
It ran thus BIBLIOLL COLLEGE . 
That , therefore , is what I advise you to do . 
Yours faithfully , T. TETUPHENAY . 
To Mr. J. FAWLEY , Stone mason . 
This terribly sensible advice exasperated Jude . 
He had known all that before . 
He knew it was true . 
No I've only begun , he replied cynically . 
Whatever his wetness , his brains were dry enough . 
He only heard in part the policeman's further remarks , having fallen into thought on what struggling people like himself had stood at that crossway , whom nobody ever thought of now . 
It had more history than the oldest college in the city . 
It was literally teeming , stratified , with the shades of human groups , who had met there for tragedy , comedy , farce real enactments of the intensest kind . 
He began to see that the town life was a book of humanity infinitely more palpitating , varied , and compendious than the gown life . 
These struggling men and women before him were the reality of Christminster , though they knew little of Christ or Minster . 
That was one of the humours of things . 
The floating population of students and teachers , who did know both in a way , were not Christminster in a local sense at all . 
He looked at his watch , and , in pursuit of this idea , he went on till he came to a public hall , where a promenade concert was in progress . 
He had tapped the real Christminster life . 
A band was playing , and the crowd walked about and jostled each other , and every now and then a man got upon a platform and sang a comic song . 
The spirit of Sue seemed to hover round him and prevent his flirting and drinking with the frolicsome girls who made advances wistful to gain a little joy . 
At ten o'clock he came away , choosing a circuitous route homeward to pass the gates of the college whose head had just sent him the note . 
VII THE stroke of scorn relieved his mind , and the next morning he laughed at his self conceit . 
But the laugh was not a healthy one . 
He re read the letter from the master , and the wisdom in its lines , which had at first exasperated him , chilled and depressed him now . 
He saw himself as a fool indeed . 
Deprived of the objects of both intellect and emotion , he could not proceed to his work . 
Whenever he felt reconciled to his fate as a student , there came to disturb his calm his hopeless relations with Sue . 
Here he sat more or less all the day , convinced that he was at bottom a vicious character , of whom it was hopeless to expect anything . 
Now with me 'twas different . 
I always saw there was more to be learnt outside a book than in and I took my steps accordingly , or I shouldn't have been the man I am . 
You aim at the Church , I believe ? said Uncle Joe . 
I should think so ! said Jude haughtily . 
Not he ! Like his conceit ! screamed one of the ladies . 
Just you shut up , Bower o' Bliss ! said one of the undergraduates . 
I won't ! said Jude . 
Yes have a try ! said the surplice maker . 
You can't ! said Uncle Joe . 
Yes , he can ! said Tinker Taylor . 
I'll swear I can ! said Jude . 
Well , come now , stand me a small Scotch cold , and I'll do it straight off . 
That's a fair offer , said the undergraduate , throwing down the money for the whisky . 
Good ! Excellent Latin ! cried one of the undergraduates , who , however , had not the slightest conception of a single word . 
Jude had declaimed steadily ahead , and was continuing CRUCIFIXUS ETIAM PRO NOBIS SUB PONTIO PILATO PASSUS , ET SEPULTUS EST . 
ET RESURREXIT TERTIA DIE , SECUNDUM SCRIPTURAS . 
That's the Nicene , sneered the second undergraduate . 
But Jude's mind seemed to grow confused soon , and he could not get on . 
He put his hand to his forehead , and his face assumed an expression of pain . 
Give him another glass then he'll fetch up and get through it , said Tinker Taylor . 
QUI CUM PATRE ET FILIO SIMUL ADORATUR ET CONGLORIFICATUR . 
QUI LOCUTUS EST PER PROPHETAS . 
ET UNAM CATHOLICAM ET APOSTOLICAM ECCLESIAM . 
CONFITEOR UNUM BAPTISMA IN REMISSIONEM PECCATORUM . 
Well done ! said several , enjoying the last word , as being the first and only one they had recognized . 
Then Jude seemed to shake the fumes from his brain , as he stared round upon them . 
You pack of fools ! he cried . 
Now lean on me , and don't mind . 
Jude , now getting towards his sober senses , could only say , Dear , dear Sue ! in a voice broken by grief and contrition . 
She asked him if he wanted anything to eat , but he shook his head . 
Then telling him to go to sleep , and that she would come down early in the morning and get him some breakfast , she bade him good night and ascended the stairs . 
Almost immediately he fell into a heavy slumber , and did not wake till dawn . 
At first he did not know where he was , but by degrees his situation cleared to him , and he beheld it in all the ghastliness of a right mind . 
She knew the worst of him the very worst . 
His fixed idea was to get away to some obscure spot and hide , and perhaps pray and the only spot which occurred to him was Marygreen . 
He had no money left in his pocket , his small savings , deposited at one of the banks in Christminster , having fortunately been left untouched . 
At some hour of the evening he reached Alfredston . 
Here he pawned his waistcoat , and having gone out of the town a mile or two , slept under a rick that night . 
He reached the ancient hamlet while the people were at breakfast . 
Weary and mud bespattered , but quite possessed of his ordinary clearness of brain , he sat down by the well , thinking as he did so what a poor Christ he made . 
Yes , said Jude heavily . 
I think I must have a little rest . 
Refreshed by some breakfast , he went up to his old room and lay down in his shirt sleeves , after the manner of the artizan . 
He fell asleep for a short while , and when he awoke it was as if he had awakened in hell . 
It WAS hell the hell of conscious failure , both in ambition and in love . 
That had been the breaking in of the outer bulwarks of his hope this was of his second line . 
If he had been a woman he must have screamed under the nervous tension which he was now undergoing . 
But that relief being denied to his virility , he clenched his teeth in misery , bringing lines about his mouth like those in the Laocoon , and corrugations between his brows . 
A mournful wind blew through the trees , and sounded in the chimney like the pedal notes of an organ . 
Yet apparently it was not always the outdoor wind that made the deep murmurs it was a voice . 
He guessed its origin in a moment or two the curate was praying with his aunt in the adjoining room . 
He remembered her speaking of him . 
Presently the sounds ceased , and a step seemed to cross the landing . 
Jude sat up , and shouted Hoi ! The step made for his door , which was open , and a man looked in . 
It was a young clergyman . 
I think you are Mr. Highridge , said Jude . 
My aunt has mentioned you more than once . 
Well , here I am , just come home a fellow gone to the bad though I had the best intentions in the world at one time . 
Now I am melancholy mad , what with drinking and one thing and another . 
Now I know I have been a fool , and that folly is with me , added Jude in conclusion . 
And I don't regret the collapse of my university hopes one jot . 
I wouldn't begin again if I were sure to succeed . 
I don't care for social success any more at all . 
But I do feel I should like to do some good thing and I bitterly regret the Church , and the loss of my chance of being her ordained minister . 
Only you must make up your mind to avoid strong drink . 
I IT was a new idea the ecclesiastical and altruistic life as distinct from the intellectual and emulative life . 
A man could preach and do good to his fellow creatures without taking double firsts in the schools of Christminster , or having anything but ordinary knowledge . 
The old fancy which had led on to the culminating vision of the bishopric had not been an ethical or theological enthusiasm at all , but a mundane ambition masquerading in a surplice . 
There were thousands of young men on the same self seeking track at the present moment . 
The sensual hind who ate , drank , and lived carelessly with his wife through the days of his vanity was a more likable being than he . 
The human interest of the new intention and a human interest is indispensable to the most spiritual and self sacrificing was created by a letter from Sue , bearing a fresh postmark . 
But that much he conceded to human frailty , and hoped to learn to love her only as a friend and kinswoman . 
This would allow him plenty of time for deliberate study , and for acquiring capital by his trade to help his aftercourse of keeping the necessary terms at a theological college . 
Christmas had come and passed , and Sue had gone to the Melchester Normal School . 
Neither had she ever said a word about her relations with Mr. Phillotson . 
Suddenly , however , quite a passionate letter arrived from Sue . 
She was quite lonely and miserable , she told him . 
She hated the place she was in it was worse than the ecclesiastical designer's worse than anywhere . 
It was Mr. Phillotson who had advised her to come there , and she wished she had never listened to him . 
Phillotson's suit was not exactly prospering , evidently and Jude felt unreasonably glad . 
He packed up his things and went to Melchester with a lighter heart than he had known for months . 
This being the turning over a new leaf he duly looked about for a temperance hotel , and found a little establishment of that description in the street leading from the station . 
When he had had something to eat he walked out into the dull winter light over the town bridge , and turned the corner towards the Close . 
The day was foggy , and standing under the walls of the most graceful architectural pile in England he paused and looked up . 
The lofty building was visible as far as the roofridge above , the dwindling spire rose more and more remotely , till its apex was quite lost in the mist drifting across it . 
The lamps now began to be lighted , and turning to the west front he walked round . 
He took it as a good omen that numerous blocks of stone were lying about , which signified that the cathedral was undergoing restoration or repair to a considerable extent . 
She was here actually in this Close in one of the houses confronting this very west facade . 
He went down the broad gravel path towards the building . 
Though she had been here such a short while , she was not as he had seen her last . 
All her bounding manner was gone her curves of motion had become subdued lines . 
The screens and subtleties of convention had likewise disappeared . 
Yet neither was she quite the woman who had written the letter that summoned him . 
That had plainly been dashed off in an impulse which second thoughts had somewhat regretted thoughts that were possibly of his recent self disgrace . 
Jude was quite overcome with emotion . 
It was made quite plain , and hung about her slight figure with clinging gracefulness . 
She had come forward prettily , but Jude felt that she had hardly expected him to kiss her , as he was burning to do , under other colours than those of cousinship . 
Sue came out into the town with him , and they walked and talked with tongues centred only on the passing moments . 
Jude said he would like to buy her a little present of some sort , and then she confessed , with something of shame , that she was dreadfully hungry . 
They were kept on very short allowances in the college , and a dinner , tea , and supper all in one was the present she most desired in the world . 
Jude thereupon took her to an inn and ordered whatever the house afforded , which was not much . 
The place , however , gave them a delightful opportunity for a TETE A TETE , nobody else being in the room , and they talked freely . 
To all this he listened but it was not what he wanted especially to know her relations with Phillotson . 
That was what she did not tell . 
Your hands are rather rough , Jude , aren't they ? she said . 
So would yours be if they held a mallet and chisel all day . 
I don't dislike it , you know . 
I think it is noble to see a man's hands subdued to what he works in . 
Well , I'm rather glad I came to this training school , after all . 
She had touched the subject at last . 
I had a suspicion , a fear , said Jude , that he cared about you rather warmly , and perhaps wanted to marry you . 
Now don't be such a silly boy ! He has said something about it , I expect . 
If he had , what would it matter ? An old man like him ! Oh , come , Sue he's not so very old . 
And I know what I saw him doing Not kissing me that I'm certain ! No. But putting his arm round your waist . 
But I didn't know he was going to . 
I know you'll be angry if I tell you everything , and that's why I don't want to ! Very well , then , dear , he said soothingly . 
I have no real right to ask you , and I don't wish to know . 
I shall tell you ! said she , with the perverseness that was part of her . 
But of course it is right you couldn't have done better ! He glanced at her and their eyes met , the reproach in his own belying his words . 
Then he drew his hand quite away from hers , and turned his face in estrangement from her to the window . 
Sue regarded him passively without moving . 
I knew you would be angry ! she said with an air of no emotion whatever . 
Oh yes , we will , he said quickly . 
Your being engaged can make no difference to me whatever . 
I have a perfect right to see you when I want to and I shall ! Then don't let us talk of it any more . 
It is quite spoiling our evening together . 
What does it matter about what one is going to do two years hence ! She was something of a riddle to him , and he let the subject drift away . 
Shall we go and sit in the cathedral ? he asked , when their meal was finished . 
Though I think I'd rather sit in the railway station , she answered , a remnant of vexation still in her voice . 
That's the centre of the town life now . 
I am not modern , either . 
I am more ancient than mediaevalism , if you only knew . 
There I won't say any more of that ! she cried . 
Only you don't know how bad I am , from your point of view , or you wouldn't think so much of me , or care whether I was engaged or not . 
Now there's just time for us to walk round the Close , then I must go in , or I shall be locked out for the night . 
He took her to the gate and they parted . 
Jude had a conviction that his unhappy visit to her on that sad night had precipitated this marriage engagement , and it did anything but add to his happiness . 
Her reproach had taken that shape , then , and not the shape of words . 
But he edged himself in by degrees . 
The lodgings he took near the Close Gate would not have disgraced a curate , the rent representing a higher percentage on his wages than mechanics of any sort usually care to pay . 
He found an ample supply of theological books in the city book shops , and with these his studies were recommenced in a different spirit and direction from his former course . 
As a relaxation from the Fathers , and such stock works as Paley and Butler , he read Newman , Pusey , and many other modern lights . 
He hired a harmonium , set it up in his lodging , and practised chants thereon , single and double . 
II TO MORROW is our grand day , you know . 
Where shall we go ? I have leave from three till nine . 
Wherever we can get to and come back from in that time . 
Not ruins , Jude I don't care for them . 
And then we can do Fonthill if we like all in the same afternoon . 
Wardour is Gothic ruins and I hate Gothic ! No. Quite otherwise . 
It is a classic building Corinthian , I think with a lot of pictures . 
I like the sound of Corinthian . 
Their conversation had run thus some few weeks later , and next morning they prepared to start . 
Every detail of the outing was a facet reflecting a sparkle to Jude , and he did not venture to meditate on the life of inconsistency he was leading . 
His Sue's conduct was one lovely conundrum to him he could say no more . 
Nobody stared at Sue , because she was so plainly dressed , which comforted Jude in the thought that only himself knew the charms those habiliments subdued . 
A matter of ten pounds spent in a drapery shop , which had no connection with her real life or her real self , would have set all Melchester staring . 
The guard of the train thought they were lovers , and put them into a compartment all by themselves . 
That's a good intention wasted ! said she . 
He thought the remark unnecessarily cruel , and partly untrue . 
Sue paused patiently beside him , and stole critical looks into his face as , regarding the Virgins , Holy Families , and Saints , it grew reverent and abstracted . 
When she had thoroughly estimated him at this , she would move on and wait for him before a Lely or Reynolds . 
It was evident that her cousin deeply interested her , as one might be interested in a man puzzling out his way along a labyrinth from which one had one's self escaped . 
Sue , who was inclined for any adventure that would intensify the sense of her day's freedom , readily agreed and away they went , leaving the adjoining station behind them . 
It was indeed open country , wide and high . 
About half way on their journey they crossed a main road running due east and west the old road from London to Land's End . 
They crossed the road and passed on , but during the next half mile Sue seemed to grow tired , and Jude began to be distressed for her . 
They had walked a good distance altogether , and if they could not reach the other station it would be rather awkward . 
A nice little cottage , said Jude . 
Oh , I don't know about the niceness . 
They sat resting , and the shepherd came in . 
Don't 'ee mind I , he said with a deprecating wave of the hand bide here as long as ye will . 
But mid you be thinking o' getting back to Melchester to night by train ? Because you'll never do it in this world , since you don't know the lie of the country . 
I don't mind going with ye some o' the ways , but even then the train mid be gone . 
You can bide here , you know , over the night can't 'em , Mother ? The place is welcome to ye . 
'Tis hard lying , rather , but volk may do worse . 
He turned to Jude and asked privately Be you a married couple ? Hsh no ! said Jude . 
Oh I meant nothing ba'dy not I ! Well then , she can go into Mother's room , and you and I can lie in the outer chimmer after they've gone through . 
I can call ye soon enough to catch the first train back . 
You've lost this one now . 
On consideration they decided to close with this offer , and drew up and shared with the shepherd and his mother the boiled bacon and greens for supper . 
I rather like this , said Sue , while their entertainers were clearing away the dishes . 
Outside all laws except gravitation and germination . 
You only think you like it you don't you are quite a product of civilization , said Jude , a recollection of her engagement reviving his soreness a little . 
Indeed I am not , Jude . 
I like reading and all that , but I crave to get back to the life of my infancy and its freedom . 
Do you remember it so well ? You seem to me to have nothing unconventional at all about you . 
Oh , haven't I ! You don't know what's inside me . 
An urban miss is what you are . 
She looked severe disagreement , and turned away . 
The shepherd aroused them the next morning , as he had said . 
It was bright and clear , and the four miles to the train were accomplished pleasantly . 
I expect I shall catch it ! she murmured . 
They rang the great bell and waited . 
Oh , I bought something for you , which I had nearly forgotten , she said quickly , searching her pocket . 
It is a new little photograph of me . 
Would you like it ? WOULD I ! He took it gladly , and the porter came . 
There seemed to be an ominous glance on his face when he opened the gate . 
She passed in , looking back at Jude , and waving her hand . 
They sat in the large school room of the establishment on the evening previously described , and word was passed round that Sue Bridehead had not come in at closing time . 
She went out with her young man , said a second year's student , who knew about young men . 
And Miss Traceley saw her at the station with him . 
She'll have it hot when she does come . 
She said he was her cousin , observed a youthful new girl . 
That excuse has been made a little too often in this school to be effectual in saving our souls , said the head girl of the year , drily . 
The affair had created a scandal , and the management had consequently been rough on cousins ever since . 
At nine o'clock the names were called , Sue's being pronounced three times sonorously by Miss Traceley without eliciting an answer . 
At a quarter past nine the seventy stood up to sing the Evening Hymn , and then knelt down to prayers . 
Hardly one among them believed in the cousinship . 
Sue's table had a moderate show , two men in their filigree and velvet frames standing together beside her looking glass . 
Who are these men did she ever say ? asked the mistress . 
Strictly speaking , relations' portraits only are allowed on these tables , you know . 
One the middle aged man , said a student in the next bed is the schoolmaster she served under Mr. Phillotson . 
And the other this undergraduate in cap and gown who is he ? He is a friend , or was . 
She has never told his name . 
Was it either of these two who came for her ? No. You are sure 'twas not the undergraduate ? Quite . 
He was a young man with a black beard . 
When they awoke the next morning they glanced into Sue's nook , to find it still without a tenant . 
The mistress of the dormitory went away , and presently came back to say that the principal's orders were that nobody was to speak to Bridehead without permission . 
At this the seventy murmured , the sentence being , they thought , too severe . 
A round robin was prepared and sent in to the principal , asking for a remission of Sue's punishment . 
Towards evening , when the geography mistress began dictating her subject , the girls in the class sat with folded arms . 
You mean that you are not going to work ? said the mistress at last . 
We have written to Christminster to ascertain . 
We are willing to take her word , said the head girl . 
This young man was discharged from his work at Christminster for drunkenness and blasphemy in public houses , and he has come here to live , entirely to be near her . 
However , they remained stolid and motionless , and the mistress left the room to inquire from her superiors what was to be done . 
How she had managed to get out of the garden nobody could tell , as it was bounded by the river at the bottom , and the side door was locked . 
They went and looked at the empty room , the casement between the middle mullions of which stood open . 
The lawn was again searched with a lantern , every bush and shrub being examined , but she was nowhere hidden . 
She must have walked through the river ! said a mistress . 
Or drownded herself , said the porter . 
As Sue had not brought disgrace upon the school by drowning herself , the matron began to speak superciliously of her , and to express gladness that she was gone . 
On the self same evening Jude sat in his lodgings by the Close Gate . 
He fancied he heard something rattle lightly against his window then he heard it again . 
Certainly somebody had thrown gravel . 
He rose and gently lifted the sash . 
Sue ! Yes it is ! Can I come up without being seen ? Oh yes ! Then don't come down . 
Jude waited , knowing that she could enter easily enough , the front door being opened merely by a knob which anybody could turn , as in most old country towns . 
He palpitated at the thought that she had fled to him in her trouble as he had fled to her in his . 
I'm so cold ! she said through her chattering teeth . 
Whatever have you done , darling ? he asked , with alarm , the tender epithet slipping out unawares . 
Dear Sue ! he said . 
You must take off all your things ! And let me see you must borrow some from the landlady . 
No , no ! Don't let her know , for God's sake ! We are so near the school that they'll come after me ! Then you must put on mine . 
You don't mind ? Oh no . 
My Sunday suit , you know . 
In fact , everything was close and handy in Jude's single chamber , because there was not room for it to be otherwise . 
He opened a drawer , took out his best dark suit , and giving the garments a shake , said , Now , how long shall I give you ? Ten minutes . 
Jude left the room and went into the street , where he walked up and down . 
A clock struck half past seven , and he returned . 
On two other chairs before the fire were her wet garments . 
She blushed as he sat down beside her , but only for a moment . 
I wish I didn't feel so ill and sick ! Will you dry my clothes now ? Please do , Jude , and I'll get a lodging by and by . 
It is not late yet . 
No , you shan't , if you are ill . 
Dear , dear Sue , what can I get for you ? I don't know ! I can't help shivering . 
I wish I could get warm . 
Jude put on her his great coat in addition , and then ran out to the nearest public house , whence he returned with a little bottle in his hand . 
Here's six of best brandy , he said . 
Now you drink it , dear all of it . 
I can't out of the bottle , can I ? Jude fetched the glass from the dressing table , and administered the spirit in some water . 
She gasped a little , but gulped it down , and lay back in the armchair . 
She then began to relate circumstantially her experiences since they had parted but in the middle of her story her voice faltered , her head nodded , and she ceased . 
She was in a sound sleep . 
Jude , dying of anxiety lest she should have caught a chill which might permanently injure her , was glad to hear the regular breathing . 
He softly went nearer to her , and observed that a warm flush now rosed her hitherto blue cheeks , and felt that her hanging hand was no longer cold . 
Then he stood with his back to the fire regarding her , and saw in her almost a divinity . 
IV JUDE'S reverie was interrupted by the creak of footsteps ascending the stairs . 
He whisked Sue's clothing from the chair where it was drying , thrust it under the bed , and sat down to his book . 
Somebody knocked and opened the door immediately . 
Oh , I didn't know whether you was in or not , Mr. Fawley . 
I wanted to know if you would require supper . 
I see you've a young gentleman Yes , ma'am . 
But I think I won't come down to night . 
Will you bring supper up on a tray , and I'll have a cup of tea as well . 
It was Jude's custom to go downstairs to the kitchen , and eat his meals with the family , to save trouble . 
His landlady brought up the supper , however , on this occasion , and he took it from her at the door . 
When she had descended he set the teapot on the hob , and drew out Sue's clothes anew but they were far from dry . 
A thick woollen gown , he found , held a deal of water . 
So he hung them up again , and enlarged his fire and mused as the steam from the garments went up the chimney . 
Suddenly she said , Jude ! Yes . 
How do you feel now ? Better . 
Why , I fell asleep , didn't I ? What time is it ? Not late surely ? It is past ten . 
Is it really ? What SHALL I do ! she said , starting up . 
Yes that's what I want to do . 
But I don't know what they would say ! And what will you do ? I am going to sit here by the fire all night , and read . 
To morrow is Sunday , and I haven't to go out anywhere . 
Perhaps you will be saved a severe illness by resting there . 
Look here , what I have got for you . 
When she had sat upright she breathed plaintively and said , I do feel rather weak still . 
You called me a creature of civilization , or something , didn't you ? she said , breaking a silence . 
It was very odd you should have done that . 
Why ? Well , because it is provokingly wrong . 
I am a sort of negation of it . 
'A negation' is profound talking . 
Is it ? Do I strike you as being learned ? she asked , with a touch of raillery . 
Only you don't talk quite like a girl well , a girl who has had no advantages . 
I don't know Latin and Greek , though I know the grammars of those tongues . 
But I know most of the Greek and Latin classics through translations , and other books too . 
You have read more than I , he said with a sigh . 
How came you to read some of those queerer ones ? Well , she said thoughtfully , it was by accident . 
My life has been entirely shaped by what people call a peculiarity in me . 
I have no fear of men , as such , nor of their books . 
I have mixed with them one or two of them particularly almost as one of their own sex . 
Until she says by a look 'Come on' he is always afraid to , and if you never say it , or look it , he never comes . 
Is your friendship broken off ? Oh yes . 
He died , poor fellow , two or three years after he had taken his degree and left Christminster . 
You saw a good deal of him , I suppose ? Yes . 
We used to go about together on walking tours , reading tours , and things of that sort like two men almost . 
He asked me to live with him , and I agreed to by letter . 
But when I joined him in London I found he meant a different thing from what I meant . 
We shared a sitting room for fifteen months and he became a leader writer for one of the great London dailies till he was taken ill , and had to go abroad . 
He said I was breaking his heart by holding out against him so long at such close quarters he could never have believed it of woman . 
I might play that game once too often , he said . 
He came home merely to die . 
His death caused a terrible remorse in me for my cruelty though I hope he died of consumption and not of me entirely . 
l went down to Sandbourne to his funeral , and was his only mourner . 
He left me a little money because I broke his heart , I suppose . 
I wouldn't have told you if I had known ! No , I am not . 
Well , I invested his money , poor fellow , in a bubble scheme , and lost it . 
But I have never yielded myself to any lover , if that's what you mean ! I have remained as I began . 
But some women would not have remained as they began . 
People say I must be cold natured sexless on account of it . 
But I won't have it ! Some of the most passionately erotic poets have been the most self contained in their daily lives . 
Have you told Mr. Phillotson about this university scholar friend ? Yes long ago . 
I have never made any secret of it to anybody . 
What did he say ? He did not pass any criticism only said I was everything to him , whatever I did and things like that . 
Jude felt much depressed she seemed to get further and further away from him with her strange ways and curious unconsciousness of gender . 
I would rather offend anybody in the world than you , I think ! I don't know whether I am vexed or not . 
I know I care very much about you ! I care as much for you as for anybody I ever met . 
You don't care MORE ! There , I ought not to say that . 
Don't answer it ! There was another long silence . 
He felt that she was treating him cruelly , though he could not quite say in what way . 
Her very helplessness seemed to make her so much stronger than he . 
I am awfully ignorant on general matters , although I have worked so hard , he said , to turn the subject . 
I am absorbed in theology , you know . 
And what do you think I should be doing just about now , if you weren't here ? I should be saying my evening prayers . 
I suppose you wouldn't like Oh no , no , she answered , I would rather not , if you don't mind . 
I should seem so such a hypocrite . 
I thought you wouldn't join , so I didn't propose it . 
You must remember that I hope to be a useful minister some day . 
To be ordained , I think you said ? Yes . 
Then you haven't given up the idea ? I thought that perhaps you had by this time . 
I fondly thought at first that you felt as I do about that , as you were so mixed up in Christminster Anglicanism . 
And Mr. Phillotson I have no respect for Christminster whatever , except , in a qualified degree , on its intellectual side , said Sue Bridehead earnestly . 
My friend I spoke of took that out of me . 
He was the most irreligious man I ever knew , and the most moral . 
And intellect at Christminster is new wine in old bottles . 
The mediaevalism of Christminster must go , be sloughed off , or Christminster itself will have to go . 
I still think Christminster has much that is glorious though I was resentful because I couldn't get there . 
He spoke gently , and resisted his impulse to pique her on to tears . 
It is an ignorant place , except as to the townspeople , artizans , drunkards , and paupers , she said , perverse still at his differing from her . 
THEY see life as it is , of course but few of the people in the colleges do . 
You prove it in your own person . 
You are one of the very men Christminster was intended for when the colleges were founded a man with a passion for learning , but no money , or opportunities , or friends . 
But you were elbowed off the pavement by the millionaires' sons . 
Well , I can do without what it confers . 
I care for something higher . 
And I for something broader , truer , she insisted . 
At present intellect in Christminster is pushing one way , and religion the other and so they stand stock still , like two rams butting each other . 
Jude was extremely , morbidly , curious about her life as Phillotson's PROTEGEE and betrothed yet she would not enlighten him . 
Well , that's just what I am , too , he said . 
I am fearful of life , spectre seeing always . 
But you are good and dear ! she murmured . 
His heart bumped , and he made no reply . 
You are in the Tractarian stage just now , are you not ? she added , putting on flippancy to hide real feeling , a common trick with her . 
Let me see when was I there ? In the year eighteen hundred and There's a sarcasm in that which is rather unpleasant to me , Sue . 
Now will you do what I want you to ? At this time I read a chapter , and then say prayers , as I told you . 
A small Bible other than the one he was using lay near her , and during his retreat she took it up , and turned over the leaves . 
Then I had the volume rebound . 
My university friend Mr. but never mind his name , poor boy said it was an excellent idea . 
I know that reading it afterwards made it twice as interesting as before , and twice as understandable . 
H'm ! said Jude , with a sense of sacrilege . 
And what a literary enormity this is , she said , as she glanced into the pages of Solomon's Song . 
I mean the synopsis at the head of each chapter , explaining away the real nature of that rhapsody . 
You needn't be alarmed nobody claims inspiration for the chapter headings . 
Indeed , many divines treat them with contempt . 
It seems the drollest thing to think of the four and twenty elders , or bishops , or whatever number they were , sitting with long faces and writing down such stuff . 
You are quite Voltairean ! he murmured . 
Yes you are , yes you are ! she cried , turning away her face that he might not see her brimming eyes . 
I won't disturb your convictions I really won't ! she went on soothingly , for now he was rather more ruffled than she . 
But you take so much tradition on trust that I don't know what to say . 
Well , dear I suppose one must take some things on trust . 
Life isn't long enough to work out everything in Euclid problems before you believe it . 
Well , perhaps you might take something worse . 
Perhaps I have done so ! He thought of Arabella . 
I shall always care for you ! said Jude . 
Because you are single hearted , and forgiving to your faulty and tiresome little Sue ! He looked away , for that epicene tenderness of hers was too harrowing . 
Was it that which had broken the heart of the poor leader writer and was he to be the next one ? . 
But Sue was so dear ! . 
She was nearer to him than any other woman he had ever met , and he could scarcely believe that time , creed , or absence , would ever divide him from her . 
But his grief at her incredulities returned . 
They sat on till she fell asleep again , and he nodded in his chair likewise . 
Whenever he aroused himself he turned her things , and made up the fire anew . 
About six o'clock he awoke completely , and lighting a candle , found that her clothes were dry . 
Her chair being a far more comfortable one than his she still slept on inside his great coat , looking warm as a new bun and boyish as a Ganymede . 
Placing the garments by her and touching her on the shoulder he went downstairs , and washed himself by starlight in the yard . 
V WHEN he returned she was dressed as usual . 
Now could I get out without anybody seeing me ? she asked . 
The town is not yet astir . 
But you have had no breakfast . 
He is the only man in the world for whom I have any respect or fear . 
I hope he'll forgive me but he'll scold me dreadfully , I expect ! I'll go to him and explain began Jude . 
Oh no , you shan't . 
She has a school near Shaston , about eighteen miles from here and I shall stay there till this has blown over , and I get back to the training school again . 
Now a dew bit to eat with it , he said and off we go . 
You can have a regular breakfast when you get there . 
They went quietly out of the house , Jude accompanying her to the station . 
As they departed along the street a head was thrust out of an upper window of his lodging and quickly withdrawn . 
They stood rather miserably together on the platform and it was apparent that he wanted to say more . 
I want to tell you something two things , he said hurriedly as the train came up . 
One is a warm one , the other a cold one ! Jude , she said . 
I know one of them . 
And you mustn't ! What ? You mustn't love me . 
You are to like me that's all ! Jude's face became so full of complicated glooms that hers was agitated in sympathy as she bade him adieu through the carriage window . 
And then the train moved on , and waving her pretty hand to him she vanished away . 
Melchester was a dismal place enough for Jude that Sunday of her departure , and the Close so hateful that he did not go once to the cathedral services . 
The next morning there came a letter from her , which , with her usual promptitude , she had written directly she had reached her friend's house . 
She told him of her safe arrival and comfortable quarters , and then added What I really write about , dear Jude , is something I said to you at parting . 
IF YOU WANT TO LOVE ME , JUDE , YOU MAY I don't mind at all and I'll never say again that you mustn't ! Now I won't write any more about that . 
You do forgive your thoughtless friend for her cruelty ? and won't make her miserable by saying you don't ? Ever , SUE . 
He felt he might have been pretty sure of his own victory if it had come to a conflict between Phillotson and himself for the possession of her . 
Yet Jude was in danger of attaching more meaning to Sue's impulsive note than it really was intended to bear . 
After the lapse of a few days he found himself hoping that she would write again . 
He expected a reply on the second morning after despatching his missive but none came . 
The third morning arrived the postman did not stop . 
His first and natural thought had been that she was ill from her immersion but it soon occurred to him that somebody would have written for her in such a case . 
A little girl opened the door . 
Miss Bridehead is up stairs , she said . 
And will you please walk up to her ? Is she ill ? asked Jude hastily . 
Only a little not very . 
On reaching the landing a voice told him which way to turn the voice of Sue calling his name . 
He passed the doorway , and found her lying in a little bed in a room a dozen feet square . 
Oh , Sue ! he cried , sitting down beside her and taking her hand . 
How is this ! You couldn't write ? No it wasn't that ! she answered . 
I did catch a bad cold but I could have written . 
Only I wouldn't ! Why not ? frightening me like this ! Yes that was what I was afraid of ! But I had decided not to write to you any more . 
They won't have me back at the school that's why I couldn't write . 
Not the fact , but the reason ! Well ? They not only won't have me , but they gave me a parting piece of advice What ? She did not answer directly . 
I vowed I never would tell you , Jude it is so vulgar and distressing ! Is it about us ? Yes . 
I HAVE recognized that the cousinship was merely nominal , since we met as total strangers . 
Perhaps I ought not to have been so intimate with you . 
It is all my fault . 
Everything is my fault always ! The speech seemed a little forced and unreal , and they regarded each other with a mutual distress . 
I was so blind at first ! she went on . 
I didn't see what you felt at all . 
I was quite aware that you did not suspect till within the last meeting or two what I was feeling about you . 
I admit that our meeting as strangers prevented a sense of relationship , and that it was a sort of subterfuge to avail myself of it . 
He had , in fact , come in part to tell his own fatal story . 
It was upon his lips yet at the hour of this distress he could not disclose it . 
He preferred to dwell upon the recognized barriers between them . 
Of course I know you don't care about me in any particular way , he sorrowed . 
You ought not , and you are right . 
You belong to Mr. Phillotson . 
I suppose he has been to see you ? Yes , she said shortly , her face changing a little . 
Though I didn't ask him to come . 
He went on to something else . 
This will blow over , dear Sue , he said . 
The training school authorities are not all the world . 
You can get to be a student in some other , no doubt . 
I'll ask Mr. Phillotson , she said decisively . 
Sue's kind hostess now returned from church , and there was no more intimate conversation . 
Jude left in the afternoon , hopelessly unhappy . 
But he had seen her , and sat with her . 
Such intercourse as that would have to content him for the remainder of his life . 
The lesson of renunciation it was necessary and proper that he , as a parish priest , should learn . 
But the next morning when he awoke he felt rather vexed with her , and decided that she was rather unreasonable , not to say capricious . 
It was so dear of you not to be angry ! Jude please still keep me as your friend and associate , with all my faults . 
I'll try not to he like it again . 
I am coming to Melchester on Saturday , to get my things away from the T. S. , c . 
I could walk with you for half an hour , if you would like ? Your repentant SUE . 
Jude forgave her straightway , and asked her to call for him at the cathedral works when she came . 
VI MEANWHILE a middle aged man was dreaming a dream of great beauty concerning the writer of the above letter . 
But it was not the real , or the whole , reason , after all . 
And yet the tale , true enough till latterly , was not true now . 
What he was regarding was not history . 
They were historic notes , written in a bold womanly hand at his dictation some months before , and it was the clerical rendering of word after word that absorbed him . 
He presently took from a drawer a carefully tied bundle of letters , few , very few , as correspondence counts nowadays . 
Each was in its envelope just as it had arrived , and the handwriting was of the same womanly character as the historic notes . 
He unfolded them one by one and read them musingly . 
At first sight there seemed in these small documents to be absolutely nothing to muse over . 
Over these phrases the school master pored . 
It was a duplicate of the one she had given Jude , and would have given to any man . 
The schoolmaster's was an unhealthy looking , old fashioned face , rendered more old fashioned by his style of shaving . 
A certain gentlemanliness had been imparted to it by nature , suggesting an inherent wish to do rightly by all . 
His speech was a little slow , but his tones were sincere enough to make his hesitation no defect . 
His greying hair was curly , and radiated from a point in the middle of his crown . 
There were four lines across his forehead , and he only wore spectacles when reading at night . 
Sue had , in fact , never written a line to her suitor on the subject , although it was fourteen days old . 
A short reflection told him that this proved nothing , a natural delicacy being as ample a reason for silence as any degree of blameworthiness . 
In his bewilderment Phillotson entered the adjacent cathedral , just now in a direly dismantled state by reason of the repairs . 
Jude had never spoken to his former hero since the meeting by the model of Jerusalem . 
Jude joined him , and they both withdrew from the other workmen to the spot where Phillotson had been sitting . 
Jude offered him a piece of sackcloth for a cushion , and told him it was dangerous to sit on the bare block . 
Yes yes , said Phillotson abstractedly , as he reseated himself , his eyes resting on the ground as if he were trying to remember where he was . 
I won't keep you long . 
It was merely that I have heard that you have seen my little friend Sue recently . 
It occurred to me to speak to you on that account . 
I merely want to ask about her . 
I think I know what ! Jude hurriedly said . 
About her escaping from the training school , and her coming to me ? Yes . 
Well Jude for a moment felt an unprincipled and fiendish wish to annihilate his rival at all cost . 
You know what they say ? that I ought to marry her . 
What ! And I wish with all my soul I could ! Phillotson trembled , and his naturally pale face acquired a corpselike sharpness in its lines . 
I had no idea that it was of this nature ! God forbid ! No , no ! said Jude aghast . 
Cases arise , and this is one , when even ungenerous questions must be put to make false assumptions impossible , and to kill scandal . 
So help me God ! The schoolmaster rose . 
This visit took place about eleven o'clock in the morning but no Sue appeared . 
When Jude went to his dinner at one he saw his beloved ahead of him in the street leading up from the North Gate , walking as if no way looking for him . 
Speedily overtaking her he remarked that he had asked her to come to him at the cathedral , and she had promised . 
I have been to get my things from the college , she said an observation which he was expected to take as an answer , though it was not one . 
Finding her to be in this evasive mood he felt inclined to give her the information so long withheld . 
You have not seen Mr. Phillotson to day ? he ventured to inquire . 
But I am not going to be cross examined about him and if you ask anything more I won't answer ! It is very odd that He stopped , regarding her . 
Well , that's strange but I feel just the same about you , Jude . 
When you are gone away I seem such a coldhearted As she knew his sentiment towards her Jude saw that they were getting upon dangerous ground . 
It was now , he thought , that he must speak as an honest man . 
I mean , I have never told you my history all of it . 
I can't quite tell you here in the street , he went on with a gloomy tongue . 
And you had better not come to my lodgings . 
Let us go in here . 
The building by which they stood was the market house , it was the only place available and they entered , the market being over , and the stalls and areas empty . 
He began and finished his brief narrative , which merely led up to the information that he had married a wife some years earlier , and that his wife was living still . 
Almost before her countenance had time to change she hurried out the words , Why didn't you tell me before ! I couldn't . 
It seemed so cruel to tell it . 
So it was better to be cruel to me ! No , dear darling ! cried Jude passionately . 
He tried to take her hand , but she withdrew it . 
Their old relations of confidence seemed suddenly to have ended , and the antagonisms of sex to sex were left without any counter poising predilections . 
She was his comrade , friend , unconscious sweetheart no longer and her eyes regarded him in estranged silence . 
I was ashamed of the episode in my life which brought about the marriage , he continued . 
I can't explain it precisely now . 
I could have done it if you had taken it differently ! But how can I ? she burst out . 
I suppose she your wife is a very pretty woman even if she's wicked ? she asked quickly . 
She's pretty enough , as far as that goes . 
Prettier than I am , no doubt ! You are not the least alike . 
And I have never seen her for years . 
You , such a religious man . 
Don't cry , dear ! he implored . 
His momentary desire was the means of her rallying . 
No , no ! she said , drawing back stringently , and wiping her eyes . 
Of course not ! It would be hypocrisy to pretend that it would be meant as from my cousin and it can't be in any other way . 
They moved on a dozen paces , and she showed herself recovered . 
I don't blame you for what you couldn't help , she said , smiling . 
How should I be so foolish ? I do blame you a little bit for not telling me before . 
But , after all , it doesn't matter . 
We should have had to keep apart , you see , even if this had not been in your life . 
No , we shouldn't , Sue ! This is the only obstacle . 
And then we are cousins , and it is bad for cousins to marry . 
And I am engaged to somebody else . 
As to our going on together as we were going , in a sort of friendly way , the people round us would have made it unable to continue . 
Their views of the relations of man and woman are limited , as is proved by their expelling me from the school . 
Their philosophy only recognizes relations based on animal desire . 
The wide field of strong attachment where desire plays , at least , only a secondary part , is ignored by them the part of who is it ? Venus Urania . 
He could speak more freely now . 
There were several reasons against my telling you rashly . 
Ah who used to say that to you ? My great aunt . 
She said it always ended badly with us Fawleys . 
Oh , but there can't be anything in it ! she said with nervous lightness . 
Our family have been unlucky of late years in choosing mates that's all . 
Their parting was in good friendship , and yet Jude's last look into her eyes was tinged with inquiry , for he felt that he did not even now quite know her mind . 
VII TIDINGS from Sue a day or two after passed across Jude like a withering blast . 
Mr. Phillotson and I are to be married quite soon in three or four weeks . 
But he generously says he does not see any object in waiting , now I am not at the training school . 
It is so good of him , because the awkwardness of my situation has really come about by my fault in getting expelled . 
Remember I say you are to , and you mustn't refuse ! Your affectionate cousin , SUSANNA FLORENCE MARY BRIDEHEAD . 
Jude staggered under the news could eat no breakfast and kept on drinking tea because his mouth was so dry . 
Then presently he went back to his work and laughed the usual bitter laugh of a man so confronted . 
Everything seemed turning to satire . 
And yet , what could the poor girl do ? he asked himself and felt worse than shedding tears . 
O Susanna Florence Mary ! he said as he worked . 
Sue had , in fact , been placed in an awkward corner . 
Poor Sue ! He determined to play the Spartan to make the best of it , and support her but he could not write the requested good wishes for a day or two . 
According to the ceremony as there printed , my bridegroom chooses me of his own will and pleasure but I don't choose him . 
Somebody GIVES me to him , like a she ass or she goat , or any other domestic animal . 
Bless your exalted views of woman , O churchman ! But I forget I am no longer privileged to tease you . 
Ever , SUSANNA FLORENCE MARY BRIDEHEAD . 
Jude screwed himself up to heroic key and replied MY DEAR SUE , Of course I wish you joy ! And also of course I will give you away . 
What I suggest is that , as you have no house of your own , you do not marry from your school friend's , but from mine . 
It would be more proper , I think , since I am , as you say , the person nearest related to you in this part of the world . 
I don't see why you sign your letter in such a new and terribly formal way ? Surely you care a bit about me still ! Ever your affectionate , JUDE . 
Jude immediately moved into more commodious quarters , as much to escape the espionage of the suspicious landlady who had been one cause of Sue's unpleasant experience as for the sake of room . 
But so well by this time did he know Sue that the remembrance of their mutual sensitiveness at emotional crises might , he thought , have weighed with her in this . 
When he came home to dinner she had taken possession of her apartment . 
What she felt he did not know their conversation was mechanical , though she did not look pale or ill . 
Phillotson came frequently , but mostly when Jude was absent . 
Seeing , as women do , how helpless he was in making the place comfortable , she bustled about . 
What's the matter , Jude ? she said suddenly . 
He was leaning with his elbows on the table and his chin on his hands , looking into a futurity which seemed to be sketched out on the tablecloth . 
Oh nothing ! You are 'father' , you know . 
That's what they call the man who gives you away . 
Jude could have said Phillotson's age entitles him to be called that ! But he would not annoy her by such a cheap retort . 
That's the church , said Jude . 
Where I am going to be married ? Yes . 
Indeed ! she exclaimed with curiosity . 
How I should like to go in and see what the spot is like where I am so soon to kneel and do it . 
Again he said to himself , She does not realize what marriage means ! He passively acquiesced in her wish to go in , and they entered by the western door . 
The only person inside the gloomy building was a charwoman cleaning . 
Sue still held Jude's arm , almost as if she loved him . 
Cruelly sweet , indeed , she had been to him that morning but his thoughts of a penance in store for her were tempered by an ache . 
The too suggestive incident , entirely of her making , nearly broke down Jude . 
I like to do things like this , she said in the delicate voice of an epicure in emotions , which left no doubt that she spoke the truth . 
I know you do ! said Jude . 
They are interesting , because they have probably never been done before . 
There , dear one , I didn't mean it ! Ah you are vexed ! she said regretfully , as she blinked away an access of eye moisture . 
And I promised never to vex you ! . 
I suppose I ought not to have asked you to bring me in here . 
Oh , I oughtn't ! I see it now . 
My curiosity to hunt up a new sensation always leads me into these scrapes . 
You will , won't you , Jude ? The appeal was so remorseful that Jude's eyes were even wetter than hers as he pressed her hand for Yes . 
But the first person they encountered on entering the main street was the schoolmaster himself , whose train had arrived sooner than Sue expected . 
There was nothing really to demur to in her leaning on Jude's arm but she withdrew her hand , and Jude thought that Phillotson had looked surprised . 
We have been doing such a funny thing ! said she , smiling candidly . 
We've been to the church , rehearsing as it were . 
Haven't we , Jude ? How ? said Phillotson curiously . 
Seeing how puzzled Phillotson seemed , Jude said as cheerfully as he could , I am going to buy her another little present . 
Jude soon joined them at his rooms , and shortly after they prepared for the ceremony . 
Phillotson's hair was brushed to a painful extent , and his shirt collar appeared stiffer than it had been for the previous twenty years . 
Beyond this he looked dignified and thoughtful , and altogether a man of whom it was not unsafe to predict that he would make a kind and considerate husband . 
That he adored Sue was obvious and she could almost be seen to feel that she was undeserving his adoration . 
Although the distance was so short he had hired a fly from the Red Lion , and six or seven women and children had gathered by the door when they came out . 
It looks so odd over a bonnet , she said . 
I'll take the bonnet off . 
Oh no let it stay , said Phillotson . 
How could Sue have had the temerity to ask him to do it a cruelty possibly to herself as well as to him ? Women were different from men in such matters . 
Possibly she would go on inflicting such pains again and again , and grieving for the sufferer again and again , in all her colossal inconsistency . 
Phillotson seemed not to notice , to be surrounded by a mist which prevented his seeing the emotions of others . 
As soon as they had signed their names and come away , and the suspense was over , Jude felt relieved . 
The meal at his lodging was a very simple affair , and at two o'clock they went off . 
In crossing the pavement to the fly she looked back and there was a frightened light in her eyes . 
When her foot was on the carriage step she turned round , saying that she had forgotten something . 
Jude and the landlady offered to get it . 
No , she said , running back . 
I know where I left it . 
She had found it , and came holding it in her hand . 
She looked into his eyes with her own tearful ones , and her lips suddenly parted as if she were going to avow something . 
But she went on and whatever she had meant to say remained unspoken . 
But in the cathedral he seemed to hear a voice behind him , and to be possessed with an idea that she would come back . 
She could not possibly go home with Phillotson , he fancied . 
The feeling grew and stirred . 
The moment that the clock struck the last of his working hours he threw down his tools and rushed homeward . 
Has anybody been for me ? he asked . 
But she did not come . 
It was a new beginning of Sue's history . 
He projected his mind into the future , and saw her with children more or less in her own likeness around her . 
Every desired renewal of an existence is debased by being half alloy . 
If at the estrangement or death of my lost love , I could go and see her child hers solely there would be comfort in it ! said Jude . 
The oppressive strength of his affection for Sue showed itself on the morrow and following days yet more clearly . 
He could no longer endure the light of the Melchester lamps the sunshine was as drab paint , and the blue sky as zinc . 
The letters were almost a relief to him . 
He started to visit Aunt Drusilla , and resolved to go onward to Christminster to see what worth there might be in the builder's offer . 
Jude found his aunt even worse than the communication from the Widow Edlin had led him to expect . 
There was every possibility of her lingering on for weeks or months , though little likelihood . 
He wrote to Sue informing her of the state of her aunt , and suggesting that she might like to see her aged relative alive . 
Next morning , according , he went on to Christminster , intending to return to Alfredston soon enough to keep the suggested appointment with Sue . 
The city of learning wore an estranged look , and he had lost all feeling for its associations . 
He came to the street in which he had first beheld Sue . 
It was as if she were dead , and nobody had been found capable of succeeding her in that artistic pursuit . 
Hers was now the city phantom , while those of the intellectual and devotional worthies who had once moved him to emotion were no longer able to assert their presence there . 
However , here he was and in fulfilment of his intention he went on to his former lodging in Beersheba , near the ritualistic church of St . 
The old landlady who opened the door seemed glad to see him again , and bringing some lunch informed him that the builder who had employed him had called to inquire his address . 
Jude went on to the stone yard where he had worked . 
But the old sheds and bankers were distasteful to him he felt it impossible to engage himself to return and stay in this place of vanished dreams . 
He longed for the hour of the homeward train to Alfredston , where he might probably meet Sue . 
Jude was longer finishing his , and stood abstractedly silent in the , for the minute , almost empty place . 
On the inside of the counter two barmaids leant over the white handled beer engines , and the row of little silvered taps inside , dripping into a pewter trough . 
Feeling tired , and having nothing more to do till the train left , Jude sat down on one of the sofas . 
The barmaid attending to this compartment was invisible to Jude's direct glance , though a reflection of her back in the glass behind her was occasionally caught by his eyes . 
He had only observed this listlessly , when she turned her face for a moment to the glass to set her hair tidy . 
Then he was amazed to discover that the face was Arabella's . 
If she had come on to his compartment she would have seen him . 
But she did not , this being presided over by the maiden on the other side . 
Oh , Mr. Cockman , now ! How can you tell such a tale to me in my innocence ! she cried gaily . 
Mr. Cockman , what do you use to make your moustache curl so beautiful ? As the young man was clean shaven the retort provoked a laugh at his expense . 
Come ! said he , I'll have a curacao and a light , please . 
She served the liqueur from one of the lovely bottles and striking a match held it to his cigarette with ministering archness while he whiffed . 
Well , have you heard from your husband lately , my dear ? he asked . 
Not a sound , said she . 
Where is he ? I left him in Australia and I suppose he's there still . 
What made you part from him ? Don't you ask questions , and you won't hear lies . 
Come then , give me my change , which you've been keeping from me for the last quarter of an hour and I'll romantically vanish up the street of this picturesque city . 
She handed the change over the counter , in taking which he caught her fingers and held them . 
There was a slight struggle and titter , and he bade her good bye and left . 
Jude had looked on with the eye of a dazed philosopher . 
It was extraordinary how far removed from his life Arabella now seemed to be . 
He could not realize their nominal closeness . 
And , this being the case , in his present frame of mind he was indifferent to the fact that Arabella was his wife indeed . 
The compartment that she served emptied itself of visitors , and after a brief thought he entered it , and went forward to the counter . 
Arabella did not recognize him for a moment . 
She started till a humorous impudence sparkled in her eyes , and she spoke . 
Well , I'm blest ! I thought you were underground years ago ! Oh ! I never heard anything of you , or I don't know that I should have come here . 
But I don't want anything more than I've had . 
The fact was that her unexpected presence there had destroyed at a stroke his momentary taste for strong liquor as completely as if it had whisked him back to his milk fed infancy . 
That's a pity , now you could get it for nothing . 
How long have you been here ? About six weeks . 
I returned from Sydney three months ago . 
I always liked this business , you know . 
I wonder you came to this place ! Well , as I say , I thought you were gone to glory , and being in London I saw the situation in an advertisement . 
Nobody was likely to know me here , even if I had minded , for I was never in Christminster in my growing up . 
Why did you return from Australia ? Oh , I had my reasons . 
Then you are not a don yet ? No. Not even a reverend ? No. Nor so much as a rather reverend dissenting gentleman ? I am as I was . 
She idly allowed her fingers to rest on the pull of the beer engine as she inspected him critically . 
So you pass as having a living husband , he continued . 
I thought it might be awkward if I called myself a widow , as I should have liked . 
I am known here a little . 
I didn't mean on that account for as I said I didn't expect you . 
It was for other reasons . 
What were they ? I don't care to go into them , she replied evasively . 
I make a very good living , and I don't know that I want your company . 
We can't talk here , she said , stepping back a moment . 
Can't you wait till nine ? Say yes , and don't be a fool . 
I can get off duty two hours sooner than usual , if I ask . 
I am not living in the house at present . 
He reflected and said gloomily , I'll come back . 
I suppose we'd better arrange something . 
Oh , bother arranging ! I'm not going to arrange anything ! But I must know a thing or two and , as you say , we can't talk here . 
Very well I'll call for you . 
Depositing his unemptied glass he went out and walked up and down the street . 
Here was a rude flounce into the pellucid sentimentality of his sad attachment to Sue . 
Though Arabella's word was absolutely untrustworthy , he thought there might be some truth in her implication that she had not wished to disturb him , and had really supposed him dead . 
Having to meet Arabella here , it was impossible to meet Sue at Alfredston as he had promised . 
At every thought of this a pang had gone through him but the conjuncture could not be helped . 
Arabella was perhaps an intended intervention to punish him for his unauthorized love . 
The inn was now brilliantly lighted up , and the scene was altogether more brisk and gay . 
The bar had been crowded with men of all sorts during the previous hour , and he had heard from without the hubbub of their voices but the customers were fewer at last . 
He nodded to Arabella , and told her that she would find him outside the door when she came away . 
But you must have something with me first , she said with great good humour . 
Just an early night cap I always do . 
Then you can go out and wait a minute , as it is best we should not be seen going together . 
He also drank his , and went outside the house . 
In a few minutes she came , in a thick jacket and a hat with a black feather . 
l live quite near , she said , taking his arm , and can let myself in by a latch key at any time . 
l ought to have gone back really ! My aunt is on her deathbed , I fear . 
I'll go over with you to morrow morning . 
I think I could get a day off . 
Yet he said , Of course , if you'd like to , you can . 
Well , that we'll consider . 
Then wait till I get two or three things . 
Sometimes when late I sleep at the hotel where I am engaged , so nobody will think anything of my staying out . 
IX ON the morrow between nine and half past they were journeying back to Christminster , the only two occupants of a compartment in a third class railway carriage . 
When they came out of the station she found that she still had half an hour to spare before she was due at the bar . 
They walked in silence a little way out of the town in the direction of Alfredston . 
Jude looked up the far highway . 
poor feeble me ! he murmured at last . 
And as I said , I shan't ask for the day to go with you to see your aunt . 
So perhaps we had better part here . 
I'd sooner not walk up Chief Street with you , since we've come to no conclusion at all . 
But you said when we were getting up this morning that you had something you wished to tell me before I left ? So I had two things one in particular . 
But you wouldn't promise to keep it a secret . 
I'll tell you now if you promise ? As an honest woman I wish you to know it . 
It was what I began telling you in the night about that gentleman who managed the Sydney hotel . 
Arabella spoke somewhat hurriedly for her . 
You'll keep it close ? Yes yes I promise ! said Jude impatiently . 
Of course I don't want to reveal your secrets . 
Whenever I met him out for a walk , he used to say that he was much taken with my looks , and he kept pressing me to marry him . 
What marry him ? Yes . 
Regularly legally in church ? Yes . 
And lived with him till shortly before I left . 
It was stupid , I know but I did ! There , now I've told you . 
Don't round upon me ! He talks of coming back to England , poor old chap . 
But if he does , he won't be likely to find me . 
Jude stood pale and fixed . 
Why the devil didn't you tell me last , night ! he said . 
Won't you make it up with me , then ? So in talking of 'your husband' to the bar gentlemen you meant him , of course not me ! Of course . 
Come , don't fuss about it . 
I have nothing more to say ! replied Jude . 
I have nothing at all to say about the crime you've confessed to ! Crime ! Pooh . 
They don't think much of such as that over there ! Lots of 'em do it . 
I could say a good deal but perhaps it would be misplaced . 
What do you wish me to do ? Nothing . 
Jude watched her disappear in the direction of the hotel , and entered the railway station close by . 
If he could only have felt resentment towards her he would have been less unhappy but he pitied while he contemned her . 
Jude turned and retraced his steps . 
Drawing again towards the station he started at hearing his name pronounced less at the name than at the voice . 
Oh , Jude I am so glad to meet you like this ! she said in quick , uneven accents not far from a sob . 
Then she flushed as she observed his thought that they had not met since her marriage . 
They looked away from each other to hide their emotion , took each other's hand without further speech , and went on together awhile , till she glanced at him with furtive solicitude . 
I may have been doing nothing better , but I was not doing that I loathe the thought of it . 
I am glad your staying had nothing to do with that . 
I had an appointment at nine o'clock too late for me to catch the train that would have met yours , or to get home at all . 
And yet she was Phillotson's . 
How she had become such , how she lived as such , passed his comprehension as he regarded her to day . 
You'll go back with me ? he said . 
There's a train just now . 
I wonder how my aunt is by this time . 
And so , Sue , you really came on my account all this way ! At what an early time you must have started , poor thing ! Yes . 
Sitting up watching alone made me all nerves for you , and instead of going to bed when it got light I started . 
And now you won't frighten me like this again about your morals for nothing ? He was not so sure that she had been frightened about his morals for nothing . 
He regarded the delicate lines of her profile , and the small , tight , applelike convexities of her bodice , so different from Arabella's amplitudes . 
But I wish Jude don't talk about ME I wish you wouldn't ! she entreated . 
It distresses me , rather . 
Forgive my saying it ! . 
Where did you stay last night ? She had asked the question in perfect innocence , to change the topic . 
He knew that , and said merely , At an inn , though it would have been a relief to tell her of his meeting with an unexpected one . 
But the latter's final announcement of her marriage in Australia bewildered him lest what he might say should do his ignorant wife an injury . 
Their talk proceeded but awkwardly till they reached Alfredston . 
That Sue was not as she had been , but was labelled Phillotson , paralyzed Jude whenever he wanted to commune with her as an individual . 
Yet she seemed unaltered he could not say why . 
There remained the five mile extra journey into the country , which it was just as easy to walk as to drive , the greater part of it being uphill . 
Jude had never before in his life gone that road with Sue , though he had with another . 
It was now as if he carried a bright light which temporarily banished the shady associations of the earlier time . 
Sue talked but Jude noticed that she still kept the conversation from herself . 
At length he inquired if her husband were well . 
O yes , she said . 
He is obliged to be in the school all the day , or he would have come with me . 
I felt it would be better to come alone . 
Aunt Drusilla , I knew , was so very eccentric and his being almost a stranger to her now would have made it irksome to both . 
Since it turns out that she is hardly conscious I am glad I did not ask him . 
Jude had walked moodily while this praise of Phillotson was being expressed . 
Mr. Phillotson obliges you in everything , as he ought , he said . 
You ought to be a happy wife . 
And of course I am . 
Bride , I might almost have said , as yet . 
Well , you have my good wishes now as always , Mrs. Phillotson . 
She reproached him by a glance . 
No , you are not Mrs. Phillotson , murmured Jude . 
When they reached the lone cottage under the firs , between the Brown House and Marygreen , in which Jude and Arabella had lived and quarrelled , he turned to look at it . 
A squalid family lived there now . 
He could not help saying to Sue That's the house my wife and I occupied the whole of the time we lived together . 
I brought her home to that house . 
That to you was what the school house at Shaston is to me . 
Yes but I was not very happy there as you are in yours . 
She closed her lips in retortive silence , and they walked some way till she glanced at him to see how he was taking it . 
Of course I may have exaggerated your happiness one never knows , he continued blandly . 
If you think I am not happy because he's too old for me , you are wrong . 
I don't think anything against him to you dear . 
And you won't say things to distress me , will you ? I will not . 
They plunged into the concave field on the other side of which rose the village the field wherein Jude had received a thrashing from the farmer many years earlier . 
On ascending to the village and approaching the house they found Mrs. Edlin standing at the door , who at sight of them lifted her hands deprecatingly . 
She's downstairs , if you'll believe me ! cried the widow . 
Out o' bed she got , and nothing could turn her . 
Ah you'll rue this marrying as well as he ! she added , turning to Sue . 
All our family do and nearly all everybody else's . 
Do ye love un ? Don't ask me , Aunt . 
I can mind the man very well . 
A very civil , honourable liver but Lord ! I don't want to wownd your feelings , but there be certain men here and there that no woman of any niceness can stomach . 
I should have said he was one . 
I don't say so NOW , since you must ha' known better than I but that's what I SHOULD have said ! Sue jumped up and went out . 
Jude followed her , and found her in the outhouse , crying . 
Don't cry , dear ! said Jude in distress . 
She means well , but is very crusty and queer now , you know . 
Oh no it isn't that ! said Sue , trying to dry her eyes . 
I don't mind her roughness one bit . 
What is it , then ? It is that what she says is is true ! God what you don't like him ? asked Jude . 
I don't mean that ! she said hastily . 
That I ought perhaps I ought not to have married ! He wondered if she had really been going to say that at first . 
In the afternoon Sue prepared to depart , Jude hiring a neighbour to drive her to Alfredston . 
I'll go with you to the station , if you'd like ? he said . 
She would not let him . 
The man came round with the trap , and Jude helped her into it , perhaps with unnecessary attention , for she looked at him prohibitively . 
I suppose I may come to see you some day , when I am back again at Melchester ? he half crossly observed . 
She bent down and said softly No , dear you are not to come yet . 
I don't think you are in a good mood . 
Very well , said Jude . 
Good bye ! Good bye ! She waved her hand and was gone . 
She's right ! I won't go ! he murmured . 
He read sermons on discipline , and hunted up passages in Church history that treated of the Ascetics of the second century . 
Before he had returned from Marygreen to Melchester there arrived a letter from Arabella . 
The sight of it revived a stronger feeling of self condemnation for his brief return to her society than for his attachment to Sue . 
The letter , he perceived , bore a London postmark instead of the Christminster one . 
X JUDE returned to Melchester , which had the questionable recommendation of being only a dozen and a half miles from his Sue's now permanent residence . 
Jude did not pause to remember that , in the laconic words of the historian , insulted Nature sometimes vindicated her rights in such circumstances . 
A mile or two from Melchester there was a restored village church , to which Jude had originally gone to fix the new columns and capitals . 
By this means he had become acquainted with the organist , and the ultimate result was that he joined the choir as a bass voice . 
He walked out to this parish twice every Sunday , and sometimes in the week . 
It turned out to be a strangely emotional composition . 
As they all sang it over and over again its harmonies grew upon Jude , and moved him exceedingly . 
When they had finished he went round to the organist to make inquiries . 
The score was in manuscript , the name of the composer being at the head , together with the title of the hymn The Foot of the Cross . 
Yes , said the organist . 
He is a local man . 
He is a professional musician at Kennetbridge between here and Christminster . 
He was brought up and educated in Christminster traditions , which accounts for the quality of the piece . 
I think he plays in the large church there , and has a surpliced choir . 
He comes to Melchester sometimes , and once tried to get the cathedral organ when the post was vacant . 
The hymn is getting about everywhere this Easter . 
As he walked humming the air on his way home , Jude fell to musing on its composer , and the reasons why he composed it . 
If there were any person in the world to choose as a confidant , this composer would be the one , for he must have suffered , and throbbed , and yearned . 
He duly started , early in the morning , for it was only by a series of crooked railways that he could get to the town . 
About mid day he reached it , and crossing the bridge into the quaint old borough he inquired for the house of the composer . 
They told him it was a red brick building some little way further on . 
Also that the gentleman himself had just passed along the street not five minutes before . 
Which way ? asked Jude with alacrity . 
Straight along homeward from church . 
Jude hastened on , and soon had the pleasure of observing a man in a black coat and a black slouched felt hat no considerable distance ahead . 
Stretching out his legs yet more widely he stalked after . 
A hungry soul in pursuit of a full soul ! he said . 
Jude accordingly rang the bell , and was admitted . 
The musician came to him in a moment , and being respectably dressed , good looking , and frank in manner , Jude obtained a favourable reception . 
He was nevertheless conscious that there would be a certain awkwardness in explaining his errand . 
I have been singing in the choir of a little church near Melchester , he said . 
And we have this week practised 'The Foot of the Cross , which I understand , sir , that you composed ? I did a year or so ago . 
I think it supremely beautiful ! Ah well other people have said so too . 
Yes , there's money in it , if I could only see about getting it published . 
I have other compositions to go with it , too I wish I could bring them out for I haven't made a five pound note out of any of them yet . 
The one you speak of I have lent to various friends about here and Melchester , and so it has got to be sung a little . 
But music is a poor staff to lean on I am giving it up entirely . 
You must go into trade if you want to make money nowadays . 
The wine business is what I am thinking of . 
This is my forthcoming list it is not issued yet but you can take one . 
It took Jude more than by surprise that the man with the soul was thus and thus and he felt that he could not open up his confidences . 
Jude stammered out something about his feelings in wishing to congratulate the author on such an exalted composition , and took an embarrassed leave . 
But no sooner did he reach his Melchester lodging than he found awaiting him a letter which had arrived that morning a few minutes after he had left the house . 
Jude therefore got leave from the cathedral works at the trifling expense of a stoppage of pay , and went . 
I SHASTON , the ancient British Palladour , From whose foundation first such strange reports arise , , was , and is , in itself the city of a dream . 
The spot was the burial place of a king and a queen , of abbots and abbesses , saints and bishops , knights and squires . 
To this fair creation of the great Middle Age the Dissolution was , as historians tell us , the death knell . 
Such is , and such was , the now world forgotten Shaston or Palladour . 
In those days the Shastonians were apparently not without a sense of humour . 
There was another peculiarity this a modern one which Shaston appeared to owe to its site . 
It was the resting place and headquarters of the proprietors of wandering vans , shows , shooting galleries , and other itinerant concerns , whose business lay largely at fairs and markets . 
In front of the schools , which were extensive and stone built , grew two enormous beeches with smooth mouse coloured trunks , as such trees will only grow on chalk uplands . 
Jude went into the empty schoolroom and sat down , the girl who was sweeping the floor having informed him that Mrs. Phillotson would be back again in a few minutes . 
The imposed hand was a little one he seemed to know , and he turned . 
Don't stop , said Sue . 
I learnt it before I left Melchester . 
They used to play it in the training school . 
I can't strum before you ! Play it for me . 
Oh well I don't mind . 
Sue sat down , and her rendering of the piece , though not remarkable , seemed divine as compared with his own . 
Jude grasped it just as he had done before her marriage . 
It is odd , she said , in a voice quite changed , that I should care about that air because Because what ? I am not that sort quite . 
Not easily moved ? I didn't quite mean that . 
Oh , but you ARE one of that sort , for you are just like me at heart ! But not at head . 
She played on and suddenly turned round and by an unpremeditated instinct each clasped the other's hand again . 
She uttered a forced little laugh as she relinquished his quickly . 
How funny ! she said . 
I wonder what we both did that for ? I suppose because we are both alike , as I said before . 
Not in our thoughts ! Perhaps a little in our feelings . 
Oh , you goose to do just what I should have done ! Why did you ? Because we are not alike , he said drily . 
Now we'll have some tea , said Sue . 
Shall we have it here instead of in my house ? It is no trouble to get the kettle and things brought in . 
We don't live at the school you know , but in that ancient dwelling across the way called Old Grove Place . 
It is so antique and dismal that it depresses me dreadfully . 
Such houses are very well to visit , but not to live in I feel crushed into the earth by the weight of so many previous lives there spent . 
In a new place like these schools there is only your own life to support . 
Sit down , and I'll tell Ada to bring the tea things across . 
This is one of your wedding presents to me , she said , signifying the latter . 
Yes , there is one . 
I am not familiar with it now , though I was interested in it when my former friend was alive . 
That sounds like what I want . 
His thoughts , however reverted with a twinge to the former friend by whom she meant , as he knew , the university comrade of her earlier days . 
He wondered if she talked of him to Phillotson . 
The Gospel of Nicodemus is very nice , she went on to keep him from his jealous thoughts , which she read clearly , as she always did . 
Indeed when they talked on an indifferent subject , as now , there was ever a second silent conversation passing between their emotions , so perfect was the reciprocity between them . 
It is quite like the genuine article . 
All cut up into verses , too so that it is like one of the other evangelists read in a dream , when things are the same , yet not the same . 
But , Jude , do you take an interest in those questions still ? Are you getting up APOLOGETICA ? Yes . 
I am reading Divinity harder than ever . 
Why do you look at me like that ? said Jude . 
Oh why do you want to know ? I am sure you can tell me anything I may be ignorant of in that subject . 
You must have learnt a lot of everything from your dear dead friend ! We won't get on to that now ! she coaxed . 
Will you be carving out at that church again next week , where you learnt the pretty hymn ? Yes , perhaps . 
That will be very nice . 
I thought you were always going to be kind to me ! No , I am not . 
What have I done , then ? I am sure I thought we two The TREMOLO in her voice caused her to break off . 
Sue , I sometimes think you are a flirt , said he abruptly . 
There was a momentary pause , till she suddenly jumped up and to his surprise he saw by the kettle flame that her face was flushed . 
I can't talk to you any longer , Jude ! she said , the tragic contralto note having come back as of old . 
It is getting too dark to stay together like this , after playing morbid Good Friday tunes that make one feel what one shouldn't ! . 
We mustn't sit and talk in this way any more . 
But you are so straightforward , Jude , that you can't understand me ! . 
I am sorry my husband is not at home . 
Are you ? I perceive I have said that in mere convention ! Honestly I don't think I am sorry . 
When do you leave here to catch your train , Jude ? she asked . 
He looked up in some surprise . 
The coach that runs to meet it goes in three quarters of an hour or so . 
What will you do with yourself for the time ? Oh wander about , I suppose . 
Perhaps I shall go and sit in the old church . 
It does seem hard of me to pack you off so ! You have thought enough of churches , Heaven knows , without going into one in the dark . 
Where ? Where you are . 
I can talk to you better like this than when you were inside . 
It was so kind and tender of you to give up half a day's work to come to see me ! . 
You are Joseph the dreamer of dreams , dear Jude . 
And a tragic Don Quixote . 
And sometimes you are St . 
Stephen , who , while they were stoning him , could see Heaven opened . 
I am called Mrs. Richard Phillotson , living a calm wedded life with my counterpart of that name . 
But I am not really Mrs. Richard Phillotson , but a woman tossed about , all alone , with aberrant passions , and unaccountable antipathies . 
Now you mustn't wait longer , or you will lose the coach . 
Come and see me again . 
You must come to the house then . 
When shall it be ? To morrow week . 
Good bye good bye ! She stretched out her hand and stroked his forehead pitifully just once . 
Jude said good bye , and went away into the darkness . 
They were entirely in darkness . 
She had said she lived over the way at Old Grove Place , a house which he soon discovered from her description of its antiquity . 
A glimmering candlelight shone from a front window , the shutters being yet unclosed . 
He could see the interior clearly the floor sinking a couple of steps below the road without , which had become raised during the centuries since the house was built . 
The mantelpiece was of the same heavy description , carved with Jacobean pilasters and scroll work . 
The centuries did , indeed , ponderously overhang a young wife who passed her time here . 
She had opened a rosewood work box , and was looking at a photograph . 
Having contemplated it a little while she pressed it against her bosom , and put it again in its place . 
Then becoming aware that she had not obscured the windows she came forward to do so , candle in hand . 
It was too dark for her to see Jude without , but he could see her face distinctly , and there was an unmistakable tearfulness about the dark , long lashed eyes . 
She closed the shutters , and Jude turned away to pursue his solitary journey home . 
Whose photograph was she looking at ? he said . 
He had once given her his but she had others , he knew . 
Yet it was his , surely ? He knew he should go to see her again , according to her invitation . 
Those earnest men he read of , the saints , whom Sue , with gentle irreverence , called his demi gods , would have shunned such encounters if they doubted their own strength . 
He might fast and pray during the whole interval , but the human was more powerful in him than the Divine . 
II HOWEVER , if God disposed not , woman did . 
The next morning but one brought him this note from her Don't come next week . 
On your own account don't ! We were too free , under the influence of that morbid hymn and the twilight . 
Think no more than you can help of SUSANNA FLORENCE MARY . 
He knew her mood , the look of her face , when she subscribed herself at length thus . 
But whatever her mood he could not say she was wrong in her view . 
It is a lesson in renunciation which I suppose I ought to learn at this season . 
JUDE He despatched the note on Easter Eve , and there seemed a finality in their decisions . 
But other forces and laws than theirs were in operation . 
On Easter Monday morning he received a message from the Widow Edlin , whom he had directed to telegraph if anything serious happened Your aunt is sinking . 
He threw down his tools and went . 
Three and a half hours later he was crossing the downs about Marygreen , and presently plunged into the concave field across which the short cut was made to the village . 
As he ascended on the other side a labouring man , who had been watching his approach from a gate across the path , moved uneasily , and prepared to speak . 
I can see in his face that she is dead , said Jude . 
Poor Aunt Drusilla ! It was as he had supposed , and Mrs. Edlin had sent out the man to break the news to him . 
She wouldn't have knowed 'ee . 
She lay like a doll wi' glass eyes so it didn't matter that you wasn't here , said he . 
It was absolutely necessary to communicate with Sue , though two or three days earlier they had agreed to mutual severance . 
He wrote in the briefest terms Aunt Drusilla is dead , having been taken almost suddenly . 
The funeral is on Friday afternoon . 
He remained in and about Marygreen through the intervening days , went out on Friday morning to see that the grave was finished , and wondered if Sue would come . 
She had not written , and that seemed to signify rather that she would come than that she would not . 
Two miles behind it a jet of white steam was travelling from the left to the right of the picture . 
There was a long time to wait , even now , till he would know if she had arrived . 
Two thirds of the way up her head suddenly took a solicitous poise , and he knew that she had at that moment recognized him . 
Her face soon began a pensive smile , which lasted till , having descended a little way , he met her . 
I thought , she began with nervous quickness , that it would be so sad to let you attend the funeral alone ! And so at the last moment I came . 
Dear faithful Sue ! murmured Jude . 
With the elusiveness of her curious double nature , however , Sue did not stand still for any further greeting , though it wanted some time to the burial . 
But Sue either saw it not at all , or , seeing it more than he , would not allow herself to feel it . 
Drusilla was put into the new ground , quite away from her ancestors . 
She was opposed to marriage , from first to last , you say ? murmured Sue . 
Particularly for members of our family . 
Her eyes met his , and remained on him awhile . 
We are rather a sad family , don't you think , Jude ? She said we made bad husbands and wives . 
Certainly we make unhappy ones . 
At all events , I do , for one ! Sue was silent . 
Presently she went on Are there many couples , do you think , where one dislikes the other for no definite fault ? Yes , I suppose . 
If either cares for another person , for instance . 
Ought she to try to overcome her pruderies ? Jude threw a troubled look at her . 
He said , looking away It would be just one of those cases in which my experiences go contrary to my dogmas . 
Speaking as an order loving man which I hope I am , though I fear I am not I should say , yes . 
Speaking from experience and unbiased nature , I should say , no . 
Sue , I believe you are not happy ! Of course I am ! she contradicted . 
How can a woman be unhappy who has only been married eight weeks to a man she chose freely ? 'Chose freely ! Why do you repeat it ? . 
But I have to go back by the six o'clock train . 
You will be staying on here , I suppose ? For a few days to wind up Aunt's affairs . 
This house is gone now . 
Shall I go to the train with you ? A little laugh of objection came from Sue . 
You may come part of the way . 
But stop you can't go to night ! That train won't take you to Shaston . 
You must stay and go back to morrow . 
Mrs. Edlin has plenty of room , if you don't like to stay here ? Very well , she said dubiously . 
I didn't tell him I would come for certain . 
Jude went to the widow's house adjoining , to let her know and returning in a few minutes sat down again . 
It is horrible how we are circumstanced , Sue horrible ! he said abruptly , with his eyes bent to the floor . 
No ! Why ? I can't tell you all my part of the gloom . 
Your part is that you ought not to have married him . 
I saw it before you had done it , but I thought I mustn't interfere . 
Only I have fancied it was a sort of trick of ours too frequent perhaps . 
There , you may hold it as much as you like . 
Is that good of me ? Yes very . 
But I must tell him . 
Oh of course , if you think it necessary . 
But as it means nothing it may be bothering him needlessly . 
Well are you sure you mean it only as my cousin ? Absolutely sure . 
I have no feelings of love left in me . 
How has it come to be ? I've seen Arabella . 
She winced at the hit then said curiously , When did you see her ? When I was at Christminster . 
So she's come back and you never told me ! I suppose you will live with her now ? Of course just as you live with your husband . 
She looked at the window pots with the geraniums and cactuses , withered for want of attention , and through them at the outer distance , till her eyes began to grow moist . 
What is it ? said Jude , in a softened tone . 
Ah it isn't true ! she said with gentle resentment . 
You are teasing me that's all because you think I am not happy ! I don't know . 
I don't wish to know . 
I have only been married a month or two ! she went on , still remaining bent upon the table , and sobbing into her hands . 
And it is said that what a woman shrinks from in the early days of her marriage she shakes down to with comfortable indifference in half a dozen years . 
That's why he didn't come to the funeral . 
Oh , I am very miserable I don't know what to do ! . 
Don't come near me , Jude , because you mustn't . 
Don't don't ! But he had jumped up and put his face against hers or rather against her ear , her face being inaccessible . 
Jude did not follow her . 
In the lonely room of his aunt's house , Jude sat watching the cottage of the Widow Edlin as it disappeared behind the night shade . 
He knew that Sue was sitting within its walls equally lonely and disheartened and again questioned his devotional motto that all was for the best . 
He retired to rest early , but his sleep was fitful from the sense that Sue was so near at hand . 
It was the cry of a rabbit caught in a gin . 
He who in his childhood had saved the lives of the earthworms now began to picture the agonies of the rabbit from its lacerated leg . 
If it were a good catch , namely , by the fore leg , the bone would be broken and the limb nearly torn in two in attempts at an impossible escape . 
Almost half an hour passed , and the rabbit repeated its cry . 
He reached the hedge bordering the widow's garden , when he stood still . 
He was turning away when he saw a woman looking out of the open casement at a window on the ground floor of the adjacent cottage . 
Jude ! said a voice timidly Sue's voice . 
She let go the casement stay and put her hand upon his , her moonlit face regarding him wistfully . 
Did it keep you awake ? he said . 
I wish I hadn't , now ! Don't wish it , dear , he said . 
That may have BEEN my view but my doctrines and I begin to part company . 
I knew it I knew it ! And that's why I vowed I wouldn't disturb your belief . 
There is a stronger one left ! he said . 
I'll never care about my doctrines or my religion any more ! Let them go ! Let me help you , even if I do love you , and even if you . 
Don't say it ! I know what you mean but I can't admit so much as that . 
It would have been wrong , perhaps , for me to tell my distress to you , if I had been able to tell it to anybody else . 
And I MUST tell somebody ! Jude , before I married him I had never thought out fully what marriage meant , even though I knew . 
It was idiotic of me there is no excuse . 
I was old enough , and I thought I was very experienced . 
So I rushed on , when I had got into that training school scrape , with all the cock sureness of the fool that I was ! . 
I am certain one ought to be allowed to undo what one had done so ignorantly ! I daresay it happens to lots of women , only they submit , and I kick . 
She shut the casement , and he returned to his cottage . 
III SUE'S distressful confession recurred to Jude's mind all the night as being a sorrow indeed . 
An hour passed before he returned along the same route , and in his face there was a look of exaltation not unmixed with recklessness . 
Then she had conceded that the fact of the kiss would be nothing all would depend upon the spirit of it . 
If given in the spirit of a cousin and a friend she saw no objection if in the spirit of a lover she could not permit it . 
Will you swear that it will not be in that spirit ? she had said . 
And then they had turned from each other in estrangement , and gone their several ways , till at a distance of twenty or thirty yards both had looked round simultaneously . 
That look behind was fatal to the reserve hitherto more or less maintained . 
They had quickly run back , and met , and embracing most unpremeditatedly , kissed close and long . 
When they parted for good it was with flushed cheeks on her side , and a beating heart on his . 
The kiss was a turning point in Jude's career . 
What Sue had said in warmth was really the cold truth . 
He was as unfit , obviously , by nature , as he had been by social position , to fill the part of a propounder of accredited dogma . 
Strange that his first aspiration towards academical proficiency had been checked by a woman , and that his second aspiration towards apostleship had also been checked by a woman . 
It was not for him to consider further he had only to confront the obvious , which was that he had made himself quite an impostor as a law abiding religious teacher . 
Lighting some loose pamphlets to begin with , he cut the volumes into pieces as well as he could , and with a three pronged fork shook them over the flames . 
They kindled , and lighted up the back of the house , the pigsty , and his own face , till they were more or less consumed . 
Though he was almost a stranger here now , passing cottagers talked to him over the garden hedge . 
Burning up your awld aunt's rubbidge , I suppose ? Ay a lot gets heaped up in nooks and corners when you've lived eighty years in one house . 
In his passion for Sue he could not stand as an ordinary sinner , and not as a whited sepulchre . 
Meanwhile Sue , after parting from him earlier in the day , had gone along to the station , with tears in her eyes for having run back and let him kiss her . 
Jude ought not to have pretended that he was not a lover , and made her give way to an impulse to act unconventionally , if not wrongly . 
I have been too weak , I think ! she jerked out as she pranced on , shaking down tear drops now and then . 
Phillotson met her at the arrival station , and , seeing that she was troubled , thought it must be owing to the depressing effect of her aunt's death and funeral . 
He began telling her of his day's doings , and how his friend Gillingham , a neighbouring schoolmaster whom he had not seen for years , had called upon him . 
He wanted to , and I let him . 
I hope it pleased him . 
I should think it was hardly a novelty . 
After tea that evening Phillotson sat balancing the school registers . 
She remained in an unusually silent , tense , and restless condition , and at last , saying she was tired , went to bed early . 
When Phillotson arrived upstairs , weary with the drudgery of the attendance numbers , it was a quarter to twelve o'clock . 
He was musing , I think , he said at last , without turning his head , that I must get the committee to change the school stationer . 
All the copybooks are sent wrong this time . 
Thinking Sue was dozing he went on And there must be a rearrangement of that ventilator in the class room . 
The wind blows down upon my head unmercifully and gives me the ear ache . 
As the silence seemed more absolute than ordinarily he turned round . 
She was not in the bed , though she had apparently been there the clothes on her side being flung back . 
What are you doing down there at midnight tiring yourself out for nothing ! I am not sleepy I am reading and there is a larger fire here . 
Some time in the night he awoke . 
She was not there , even now . 
Lighting a candle he hastily stepped out upon the landing , and again called her name . 
She answered Yes ! as before , but the tones were small and confined , and whence they came he could not at first understand . 
Under the staircase was a large clothes closet , without a window they seemed to come from it . 
The door was shut , but there was no lock or other fastening . 
Phillotson , alarmed , went towards it , wondering if she had suddenly become deranged . 
What are you doing in there ? he asked . 
Not to disturb you I came here , as it was so late . 
But there's no bed , is there ? And no ventilation ! Why , you'll be suffocated if you stay all night ! Oh no , I think not . 
But Phillotson seized the knob and pulled at the door . 
She had fastened it inside with a piece of string , which broke at his pull . 
There being no bedstead she had flung down some rugs and made a little nest for herself in the very cramped quarters the closet afforded . 
When he looked in upon her she sprang out of her lair , great eyed and trembling . 
You ought not to have pulled open the door ! she cried excitedly . 
She continued to beseech him not to disturb her . 
He said I've been kind to you , and given you every liberty and it is monstrous that you should feel in this way ! Yes , said she , weeping . 
I know that ! It is wrong and wicked of me , I suppose ! I am very sorry . 
Making a man's house so unseemly at this time o' night ! Eliza will hear if we don't mind . 
Just think if either of the parsons in this town was to see us now ! I hate such eccentricities , Sue . 
There's no order or regularity in your sentiments ! . 
But I won't intrude on you further only I would advise you not to shut the door too tight , or I shall find you stifled to morrow . 
On rising the next morning he immediately looked into the closet , but Sue had already gone downstairs . 
There was a little nest where she had lain , and spiders' webs hung overhead . 
What must a woman's aversion be when it is stronger than her fear of spiders ! he said bitterly . 
They nodded down to the happy couple their morning greetings , as they went on . 
Richard , she said all at once would you mind my living away from you ? Away from me ? Why , that's what you were doing when I married you . 
What then was the meaning of marrying at all ? You wouldn't like me any the better for telling you . 
I don't object to know . 
Because I thought I could do nothing else . 
You had got my promise a long time before that , remember . 
Then , as time went on , I regretted I had promised you , and was trying to see an honourable way to break it off . 
But as I couldn't I became rather reckless and careless about the conventions . 
Of course I , of all people , ought not to have cared what was said , for it was just what I fancied I never did care for . 
But I was a coward as so many women are and my theoretic unconventionality broke down . 
And you were so generous in never giving credit for a moment to the rumour . 
I am bound in honesty to tell you that I weighed its probability and inquired of your cousin about it . 
Ah ! she said with pained surprise . 
But you inquired ! I took his word . 
HE wouldn't have inquired ! she said . 
But you haven't answered me . 
Will you let me go away ? I know how irregular it is of me to ask it It is irregular . 
But I do ask it ! Domestic laws should be made according to temperaments , which should be classified . 
If people are at all peculiar in character they have to suffer from the very rules that produce comfort in others ! . 
I DO like you ! But I didn't reflect it would be that it would be so much more than that . 
For a man and woman to live on intimate terms when one feels as I do is adultery , in any circumstances , however legal . 
There I've said it ! . 
Then we might be friends , and meet without pain to either . 
Well why should I suffer for what I was born to be , if it doesn't hurt other people ? But it does it hurts me ! And you vowed to love me . 
Yes that's it ! I am in the wrong . 
But I meant living with Jude . 
As his wife ? As I choose . 
J. S. Mill's words , those are . 
I have been reading it up . 
Why can't you act upon them ? I wish to , always . 
What do I care about J. S. Mill ! moaned he . 
She was beginning to be so puzzling and unstateable that he was ready to throw in with her other little peculiarities the extremest request which a wife could make . 
I don't know what I am doing ! Was it seriously made ? He folded the piece of paper very small , and gave it to a little boy to take to Sue . 
The child toddled off into the class room . 
He could not see her hands , but she changed her position , and soon the child returned , bringing nothing in reply . 
In a few minutes , however , one of Sue's class appeared , with a little note similar to his own . 
These words only were pencilled therein I am sincerely sorry to say that it was seriously made . 
Phillotson looked more disturbed than before , and the meeting place of his brows twitched again . 
In ten minutes he called up the child he had just sent to her , and dispatched another missive God knows I don't want to thwart you in any reasonable way . 
My whole thought is to make you comfortable and happy . 
But I cannot agree to such a preposterous notion as your going to live with your lover . 
But I don't want to be respectable ! To produce Human development in its richest diversity is to my mind far above respectability . 
She wrote again I know what you think . 
some harmless mode of vegetation might have peopled Paradise . 
But I won't trifle ! Be kind to me even though I have not been kind to you ! I will go away , go abroad , anywhere , and never trouble you . 
Nearly an hour passed , and then he returned an answer I do not wish to pain you . 
How well you KNOW I don't ! Give me a little time . 
I am disposed to agree to your last request . 
One line from her Thank you from my heart , Richard . 
I do not deserve your kindness . 
All day Phillotson bent a dazed regard upon her through the glazed partition and he felt as lonely as when he had not known her . 
But he was as good as his word , and consented to her living apart in the house . 
She talked vaguely and indiscriminately to prevent his talking pertinently . 
IV PHILLOTSON was sitting up late , as was often his custom , trying to get together the materials for his long neglected hobby of Roman antiquities . 
For the first time since reviving the subject he felt a return of his old interest in it . 
He forgot time and place , and when he remembered himself and ascended to rest it was nearly two o'clock . 
He entered , and unconsciously began to undress . 
There was a cry from the bed , and a quick movement . 
This was somewhat hidden by the canopy of the bedstead , and in a moment he heard her flinging up the sash . 
Before he had thought that she meant to do more than get air she had mounted upon the sill and leapt out . 
She disappeared in the darkness , and he heard her fall below . 
Phillotson , horrified , ran downstairs , striking himself sharply against the newel in his haste . 
Opening the heavy door he ascended the two or three steps to the level of the ground , and there on the gravel before him lay a white heap . 
She had certainly not broken her neck . 
She looked at him with eyes that seemed not to take him in and though not particularly large in general they appeared so now . 
She pressed her side and rubbed her arm , as if conscious of pain then stood up , averting her face , in evident distress at his gaze . 
Beyond a scraped elbow and a blow in the side she had apparently incurred little harm . 
I was asleep , I think ! she began , her pale face still turned away from him . 
And something frightened me a terrible dream I thought I saw you The actual circumstances seemed to come back to her , and she was silent . 
Her cloak was hanging at the back of the door , and the wretched Phillotson flung it round her . 
Shall I help you upstairs ? he asked drearily for the significance of all this sickened him of himself and of everything . 
No thank you , Richard . 
I am very little hurt . 
You ought to lock your door , he mechanically said , as if lecturing in school . 
Then no one could intrude even by accident . 
I have tried it won't lock . 
All the doors are out of order . 
The aspect of things was not improved by her admission . 
She ascended the staircase slowly , the waving light of the candle shining on her . 
Phillotson did not approach her , or attempt to ascend himself till he heard her enter her room . 
Then he fastened up the front door , and returning , sat down on the lower stairs , holding the newel with one hand , and bowing his face into the other . 
He was now on the low alluvial beds Where Duncliffe is the traveller's mark , And cloty Stour's a rolling dark . 
More than once he looked back in the increasing obscurity of evening . 
Against the sky was Shaston , dimly visible On the grey topp'd height Of Paladore , as pale day wore Away . 
The new lit lights from its windows burnt with a steady shine as if watching him , one of which windows was his own . 
Above it he could just discern the pinnacled tower of Trinity Church . 
He discovered his friend putting away some books from which he had been giving evening lessons . 
The light of the paraffin lamp fell on Phillotson's face pale and wretched by contrast with his friend's , who had a cool , practical look . 
They had been schoolmates in boyhood , and fellow students at Wintoncester Training College , many years before this time . 
Glad to see you , Dick ! But you don't look well ? Nothing the matter ? Phillotson advanced without replying , and Gillingham closed the cupboard and pulled up beside his visitor . 
I am glad you didn't wait , however . 
Though well trained and even proficient masters , they occasionally used a dialect word of their boyhood to each other in private . 
But anything is better than the present condition of things God forbid that you should ever have such an experience as mine ! Sit down . 
You don't mean anything wrong between you and Mrs. Phillotson ? I do . 
My wretched state is that I've a wife I love who not only does not love me , but but Well , I won't say . 
Afterwards she saw somebody else , but she blindly fulfilled her engagement . 
Loving the other ? Yes with a curious tender solicitude seemingly though her exact feeling for him is a riddle to me and to him too , I think possibly to herself . 
She is one of the oddest creatures I ever met . 
However , I have been struck with these two facts the extraordinary sympathy , or similarity , between the pair . 
He is her cousin , which perhaps accounts for some of it . 
She has conscientiously struggled against it , but to no purpose . 
I cannot bear it I cannot ! I can't answer her arguments she has read ten times as much as I. Her intellect sparkles like diamonds , while mine smoulders like brown paper . 
She's one too many for me ! She'll get over it , good now ? Never ! It is but I won't go into it there are reasons why she never will . 
At last she calmly and firmly asked if she might leave me and go to him . 
I shall let her go with him certainly , if she wishes . 
Only I know one thing something within me tells me I am doing wrong in refusing her . 
But is that essentially right , and proper , and honourable , or is it contemptibly mean and selfish ? I don't profess to decide . 
I simply am going to act by instinct , and let principles take care of themselves . 
If a person who has blindly walked into a quagmire cries for help , I am inclined to give it , if possible . 
Well I don't agree with your instinct , Dick ! said Gillingham gravely . 
I am quite amazed , to tell the truth , that such a sedate , plodding fellow as you should have entertained such a craze for a moment . 
Then I don't think you are in a position to give an opinion . 
I have been that man , and it makes all the difference in the world , if one has any manliness or chivalry in him . 
But to go attended by a cavalier that makes a difference . 
Suppose , as I believe , she would rather endure her present misery than be made to promise to keep apart from him ? All that is a question for herself . 
It is not the same thing at all as the treachery of living on with a husband and playing him false . 
However , she has not distinctly implied living with him as wife , though I think she means to . 
I am ashamed of it now , though I suppose I was only exercising a legal right . 
I found from their manner that an extraordinary affinity , or sympathy , entered into their attachment , which somehow took away all flavour of grossness . 
Their supreme desire is to be together to share each other's emotions , and fancies , and dreams . 
Shelleyan would be nearer to it . 
They remind me of what are their names Laon and Cythna . 
Also of Paul and Virginia a little . 
The more I reflect , the more ENTIRELY I am on their side ! But if people did as you want to do , there'd be a general domestic disintegration . 
The family would no longer be the social unit . 
Yes I am all abroad , I suppose ! said Phillotson sadly . 
I was never a very bright reasoner , you remember . 
And yet , I don't see why the woman and the children should not be the unit without the man . 
By the Lord Harry ! Matriarchy ! . 
Does SHE say all this too ? Oh no . 
She little thinks I have out Sued Sue in this all in the last twelve hours ! It will upset all received opinion hereabout . 
Good God what will Shaston say ! I don't say that it won't . 
I don't know I don't know ! . 
As I say , I am only a feeler , not a reasoner . 
Now , said Gillingham , let us take it quietly , and have something to drink over it . 
He went under the stairs , and produced a bottle of cider wine , of which they drank a rummer each . 
I think you are rafted , and not yourself , he continued . 
Do go back and make up your mind to put up with a few whims . 
I hear on all sides that she's a charming young thing . 
Ah yes ! That's the bitterness of it ! Well , I won't stay . 
I have a long walk before me . 
The next morning came , and at breakfast Phillotson told Sue You may go with whom you will . 
I absolutely and unconditionally agree . 
Having once come to this conclusion it seemed to Phillotson more and more indubitably the true one . 
His mild serenity at the sense that he was doing his duty by a woman who was at his mercy almost overpowered his grief at relinquishing her . 
Some days passed , and the evening of their last meal together had come a cloudy evening with wind which indeed was very seldom absent in this elevated place . 
You had better have a slice of ham or an egg , or something with your tea ? You can't travel on a mouthful of bread and butter . 
I am a bachelor by nature , as you know , Sue , he said , in a heroic attempt to put her at her ease . 
So that being without a wife will not really be irksome to me , as it might be to other men who have had one a little while . 
I have , too , this grand hobby in my head of writing 'The Roman Antiquities of Wessex , which will occupy all my spare hours . 
I should much like to be some help to you still as a friend . 
Phillotson mused , and said No , I think we ought to be really separate , if we are to be at all . 
And for this reason , that I don't wish to ask you any questions , and particularly wish you not to give me information as to your movements , or even your address . 
Now , what money do you want ? You must have some , you know . 
Oh , of course , Richard , I couldn't think of having any of your money to go away from you with ! I don't want any either . 
I have enough of my own to last me for a long while , and Jude will let me have I would rather not know anything about him , if you don't mind . 
You are free , absolutely and your course is your own . 
But I'll just say that I have packed only a change or two of my own personal clothing , and one or two little things besides that are my very own . 
I wish you would look into my trunk before it is closed . 
Besides that I have only a small parcel that will go into Jude's portmanteau . 
Of course I shall do no such thing as examine your luggage ! I wish you would take three quarters of the household furniture . 
I don't want to be bothered with it . 
I have a sort of affection for a little of it that belonged to my poor mother and father . 
But the rest you are welcome to whenever you like to send for it . 
That I shall never do . 
You go by the six thirty train , don't you ? It is now a quarter to six . 
You don't seem very sorry I am going , Richard ! Oh no perhaps not . 
I like you much for how you have behaved . 
It is a curious thing that directly I have begun to regard you as not my husband , but as my old teacher , I like you . 
I won't be so affected as to say I love you , because you know I don't , except as a friend . 
But you do seem that to me ! Sue was for a few moments a little tearful at these reflections , and then the station omnibus came round to take her up . 
From the cheerful manner in which they parted the omnibus man had no other idea than that she was going for a short visit . 
When Phillotson got back into the house he went upstairs and opened the window in the direction the omnibus had taken . 
Soon the noise of its wheels died away . 
He came down then , his face compressed like that of one bearing pain he put on his hat and went out , following by the same route for nearly a mile . 
Suddenly turning round he came home . 
He had no sooner entered than the voice of his friend Gillingham greeted him from the front room . 
I could make nobody hear so finding your door open I walked in , and made myself comfortable . 
I said I would call , you remember . 
I am much obliged to you , Gillingham , particularly for coming to night . 
How is Mrs. She is quite well . 
She is gone just gone . 
That's her tea cup , that she drank out of only an hour ago . 
And that's the plate she Phillotson's throat got choked up , and he could not go on . 
He turned and pushed the tea things aside . 
Have you had any tea , by the by ? he asked presently in a renewed voice . 
No yes never mind , said Gillingham , preoccupied . 
Gone , you say she is ? Yes . 
I would have died for her but I wouldn't be cruel to her in the name of the law . 
She is , as I understand , gone to join her lover . 
What they are going to do I cannot say . 
Whatever it may be she has my full consent to . 
There was a stability , a ballast , in Phillotson's pronouncement which restrained his friend's comment . 
Shall I leave you ? he asked . 
It is a mercy to me that you have come . 
I have some articles to arrange and clear away . 
She wouldn't take all I wanted her to , he continued . 
But when I made up my mind to her going to live in her own way I did make up my mind . 
Some men would have stopped at an agreement to separate . 
I've gone into all that , and don't wish to argue it . 
I was , and am , the most old fashioned man in the world on the question of marriage in fact I had never thought critically about its ethics at all . 
But certain facts stared me in the face , and I couldn't go against them . 
They went on with the packing silently . 
When it was done Phillotson closed the box and turned the key . 
Richard and I thought it could be done with less obtrusiveness after dark . 
I feel rather frightened , and therefore ask you to be sure you are on the Melchester platform to meet me . 
I arrive at a little to seven . 
I know you will , of course , dear Jude but I feel so timid that I can't help begging you to be punctual . 
But no hesitation was apparent therein . 
The up train by which she was departing stopped by signal only . 
To Sue it seemed strange that such a powerful organization as a railway train should be brought to a stand still on purpose for her a fugitive from her lawful home . 
The twenty minutes' journey drew towards its close , and Sue began gathering her things together to alight . 
At the moment that the train came to a stand still by the Melchester platform a hand was laid on the door and she beheld Jude . 
He entered the compartment promptly . 
He had a black bag in his hand , and was dressed in the dark suit he wore on Sundays and in the evening after work . 
Altogether he looked a very handsome young fellow , his ardent affection for her burning in his eyes . 
Oh Jude ! She clasped his hand with both hers , and her tense state caused her to simmer over in a little succession of dry sobs . 
I I am so glad ! I get out here ? No. I get in , dear one ! I've packed . 
Besides this bag I've only a big box which is labelled . 
But don't I get out ? Aren't we going to stay here ? We couldn't possibly , don't you see . 
We are known here I , at any rate , am well known . 
I've booked for Aldbrickham and here's your ticket for the same place , as you have only one to here . 
I thought we should have stayed here , she repeated . 
It wouldn't have done at all . 
There wasn't time for me to write and say the place I had decided on . 
Aldbrickham is a much bigger town sixty or seventy thousand inhabitants and nobody knows anything about us there . 
And you have given up your cathedral work here ? Yes . 
It was rather sudden your message coming unexpectedly . 
Strictly , I might have been made to finish out the week . 
But I pleaded urgency and I was let off . 
I would have deserted any day at your command , dear Sue . 
I have deserted more than that for you ! I fear I am doing you a lot of harm . 
Ruining your prospects of the Church ruining your progress in your trade everything ! The Church is no more to me . 
Oh I seem so bad upsetting men's courses like this ! said she , taking up in her voice the emotion that had begun in his . 
But she recovered her equanimity by the time they had travelled a dozen miles . 
He has been so good in letting me go , she resumed . 
And here's a note I found on my dressing table , addressed to you . 
He's not an unworthy fellow , said Jude , glancing at the note . 
And I am ashamed of myself for hating him because he married you . 
According to the rule of women's whims I suppose I ought to suddenly love him , because he has let me go so generously and unexpectedly , she answered smiling . 
It may not work so well for us as if he had been less kind , and you had run away against his will , murmured Jude . 
That I NEVER would have done . 
Jude's eyes rested musingly on her face . 
Then he suddenly kissed her and was going to kiss her again . 
No only once now please , Jude ! That's rather cruel , he answered but acquiesced . 
Such a strange thing has happened to me , Jude continued after a silence . 
Arabella has actually written to ask me to get a divorce from her in kindness to her , she says . 
She wants to honestly and legally marry that man she has already married virtually and begs me to enable her to do it . 
What have you done ? I have agreed . 
I thought at first I couldn't do it without getting her into trouble about that second marriage , and I don't want to injure her in any way . 
Perhaps she's no worse than I am , after all ! But nobody knows about it over here , and I find it will not be a difficult proceeding at all . 
If she wants to start afresh I have only too obvious reasons for not hindering her . 
Then you'll be free ? Yes , I shall be free . 
Where are we booked for ? she asked , with the discontinuity that marked her to night . 
Aldbrickham , as I said . 
But it will be very late when we get there ? Yes . 
I thought of that , and I wired for a room for us at the Temperance Hotel there . 
Oh Jude ! Sue bent her forehead against the corner of the compartment . 
I thought you might do it and that I was deceiving you . 
But I didn't mean that ! In the pause which followed , Jude's eyes fixed themselves with a stultified expression on the opposite seat . 
But I understood it like that . 
Is this a sudden change of mind ? You have no right to ask me such a question and I shan't answer ! she said , smiling . 
My dear one , your happiness is more to me than anything although we seem to verge on quarrelling so often ! and your will is law to me . 
I am something more than a mere selfish fellow , I hope . 
Have it as you wish ! On reflection his brow showed perplexity . 
Put it down to my timidity , she said with hurried evasiveness to a woman's natural timidity when the crisis comes . 
I may feel as well as you that I have a perfect right to live with you as you thought from this moment . 
But partly , perhaps , because it is by his generosity that I am now free , I would rather not be other than a little rigid . 
If there had been a rope ladder , and he had run after us with pistols , it would have seemed different , and I may have acted otherwise . 
But don't press me and criticize me , Jude ! Assume that I haven't the courage of my opinions . 
I know I am a poor miserable creature . 
My nature is not so passionate as yours ! He repeated simply ! I thought what I naturally thought . 
But if we are not lovers , we are not . 
Phillotson thought so , I am sure . 
See , here is what he has written to me . 
He opened the letter she had brought , and read I make only one condition that you are tender and kind to her . 
I know you love her . 
But even love may be cruel at times . 
You are made for each other it is obvious , palpable , to any unbiased older person . 
You were all along 'the shadowy third' in my short life with her . 
I repeat , take care of Sue . 
He's a good fellow , isn't he ! she said with latent tears . 
If I loved him ever so little as a wife , I'd go back to him even now . 
But you don't , do you ? It is true oh so terribly true ! I don't . 
Nor me neither , I half fear ! he said pettishly . 
Nor anybody perhaps ! Sue , sometimes , when I am vexed with you , I think you are incapable of real love . 
That's not good and loyal of you ! she said , and drawing away from him as far as she could , looked severely out into the darkness . 
She added in hurt tones , without turning round My liking for you is not as some women's perhaps . 
But , as me with you , I resolved to trust you to set my wishes above your gratification . 
Don't discuss it further , dear Jude ! Of course , if it would make you reproach yourself . 
Just once or so ! Well don't be a greedy boy . 
He leant back , and did not look at her for a long time . 
This is a queer elopement ! he murmured . 
Perhaps you are making a cat's paw of me with Phillotson all this time . 
You did kiss me just now , you know and I didn't dislike you to , I own it , Jude . 
Only I don't want to let you do it again , just yet considering how we are circumstanced , don't you see ! He could never resist her when she pleaded . 
And they sat side by side with joined hands , till she aroused herself at some thought . 
But I haven't the courage of my views , as I said before . 
I didn't marry him altogether because of the scandal . 
Then , when she sees him suffering , her remorse sets in , and she does what she can to repair the wrong . 
It was about ten o'clock when they arrived at Aldbrickham , the county town of North Wessex . 
Owing , however , to their now entering it by another door , and to his preoccupation , he did not at first recognize the place . 
When they had engaged their respective rooms they went down to a late supper . 
During Jude's temporary absence the waiting maid spoke to Sue . 
Oh do you ? said Sue , with a certain sickness of heart . 
Though I think you must be mistaken ! How long ago was it ? About a month or two . 
A handsome , full figured woman . 
When Jude came back and sat down to supper Sue seemed moping and miserable . 
There , now I have said it ! Dear me , why said Jude looking round him . 
Yes it is the same ! I really didn't know it , Sue . 
Well it is not cruel , since we have come as we have two relations staying together . 
How long ago was it you were here ? Tell me , tell me ! The day before I met you in Christminster , when we went back to Marygreen together . 
I told you I had met her . 
Yes , you said you had met her , but you didn't tell me all . 
Your story was that you had met as estranged people , who were not husband and wife at all in Heaven's sight not that you had made it up with her . 
We didn't make it up , he said sadly . 
I can't explain , Sue . 
You concede nothing to me and I have to concede everything to you . 
After all , you were on good terms with your husband at that time . 
No , I wasn't , Jude . 
Oh how can you think so ! And you have taken me in , even if you didn't intend to . 
She was so mortified that he was obliged to take her into her room and close the door lest the people should hear . 
I never knew such an unreasonable such a dog in the manger feeling , said Jude . 
But he did a little and began to love her none the less . 
I I thought you cared for nobody desired nobody in the world but me at that time and ever since ! continued Sue . 
I did not , and don't now ! said Jude , as distressed as she . 
I can't say more without speaking against her , and I don't want to do that , said he . 
Yet I must tell you one thing , which would settle the matter in any case . 
She has married another man really married him ! I knew nothing about it till after the visit we made here . 
It is a crime as the world treats it , but does not believe . 
There now you are yourself again . 
Yes , it is a crime as you don't hold , but would fearfully concede . 
So you perceive I shall not be likely to see her again . 
And you didn't really know anything of this when you saw her ? said Sue more gently , as she rose . 
Considering all things , I don't think you ought to be angry , darling ! I am not . 
But I shan't go to the Temperance Hotel ! He laughed . 
Never mind ! he said . 
So that I am near you , I am comparatively happy . 
The enmity of our parents gave a piquancy to you in my eyes that was intenser even than the novelty of ordinary new acquaintance . 
Say those pretty lines , then , from Shelley's 'Epipsychidion' as if they meant me ! she solicited , slanting up closer to him as they stood . 
Don't you know them ? I know hardly any poetry , he replied mournfully . 
Don't you ? These are some of them There was a Being whom my spirit oft Met on its visioned wanderings far aloft . 
A seraph of Heaven , too gentle to be human , Veiling beneath that radiant form of woman . 
She put the tip of her finger gingerly to her cheek and he did as commanded . 
You do care for me very much , don't you , in spite of my not you know ? Yes , sweet ! he said with a sigh and bade her good night . 
For some time after her flight from that home Sue's absence did not excite comment . 
The schoolmaster's growing languor and listlessness over his work gave countenance to the idea . 
On a Monday morning the chairman of the school committee called , and after attending to the business of the school drew Phillotson aside out of earshot of the children . 
There was no secret about it . 
She has gone to visit friends ? No. Then what has happened ? She has gone away under circumstances that usually call for condolence with the husband . 
But I gave my consent . 
The chairman looked as if he had not apprehended the remark . 
What I say is quite true , Phillotson continued testily . 
She asked leave to go away with her lover , and I let her . 
Why shouldn't I ? A woman of full age , it was a question of her own conscience not for me . 
I was not her gaoler . 
I can't explain any further . 
I don't wish to be questioned . 
The children observed that much seriousness marked the faces of the two men , and went home and told their parents that something new had happened about Mrs. Phillotson . 
The chairman of committee thought the matter over , and talked to the other managers of the school , till a request came to Phillotson to meet them privately . 
The meeting lasted a long time , and at the end the school master came home , looking as usual pale and worn . 
Gillingham was sitting in his house awaiting him . 
Well it is as you said , observed Phillotson , flinging himself down wearily in a chair . 
They have requested me to send in my resignation on account of my scandalous conduct in giving my tortured wife her liberty or , as they call it , condoning her adultery . 
But I shan't resign ! I think I would . 
It is no business of theirs . 
It doesn't affect me in my public capacity at all . 
They may expel me if they like . 
If you make a fuss it will get into the papers , and you'll never get appointed to another school . 
You must let me say that . 
To this good advice , however , Phillotson would not listen . 
I don't care , he said . 
I don't go unless I am turned out . 
This they over ruled , insisting that the private eccentricities of a teacher came quite within their sphere of control , as it touched the morals of those he taught . 
Phillotson replied that he did not see how an act of natural charity could injure morals . 
All the respectable inhabitants and well to do fellow natives of the town were against Phillotson to a man . 
But , somewhat to his surprise , some dozen or more champions rose up in his defence as from the ground . 
Although Phillotson had never spoken to one of these gentlemen they now nobly led the forlorn hope in his defence . 
Gillingham came to see him in the evenings , and on one occasion mentioned Sue's name . 
She doesn't care anything about me ! said Phillotson . 
Why should she ? She doesn't know you are ill . 
So much the better for both of us . 
Where are her lover and she living ? At Melchester I suppose at least he was living there some time ago . 
Arriving at that place it was forwarded to Marygreen in North Wessex , and thence to Aldbrickham by the only person who knew his present address the widow who had nursed his aunt . 
Phillotson did not speak the door was hesitatingly opened , and there entered Sue . 
She was in light spring clothing , and her advent seemed ghostly like the flitting in of a moth . 
He turned his eyes upon her , and flushed but appeared to check his primary impulse to speak . 
I have no business here , she said , bending her frightened face to him . 
But I heard you were ill very ill and and as I know that you recognize other feelings between man and woman than physical love , I have come . 
I am not very ill , my dear friend . 
I didn't know that and I am afraid that only a severe illness would have justified my coming ! Yes . 
And I almost wish you had not come ! It is a little too soon that's all I mean . 
Still , let us make the best of it . 
You haven't heard about the school , I suppose ? No what about it ? Only that I am going away from here to another place . 
The managers and I don't agree , and we are going to part that's all . 
They talked on slight and ephemeral subjects , and when his tea was brought up he told the amazed little servant that a cup was to be set for Sue . 
That young person was much more interested in their history than they supposed , and as she descended the stairs she lifted her eyes and hands in grotesque amazement . 
While they sipped Sue went to the window and thoughtfully said , It is such a beautiful sunset , Richard . 
They are mostly beautiful from here , owing to the rays crossing the mist of the vale . 
But I lose them all , as they don't shine into this gloomy corner where I lie . 
Wouldn't you like to see this particular one ? It is like heaven opened . 
Ah yes ! But I can't . 
No the bedstead can't be shifted . 
But see how I mean . 
There you can see the great red sun now ! she said . 
You are an odd creature ! he murmured as the sun glowed in his eyes . 
The idea of your coming to see me after what has passed ! Don't let us go back upon that ! she said quickly . 
I have to catch the omnibus for the train , as Jude doesn't know I have come he was out when I started so I must return home almost directly . 
Richard , I am so very glad you are better . 
You don't hate me , do you ? You have been such a kind friend to me ! I am glad to know you think so , said Phillotson huskily . 
It was bad policy to recall her he knew it while he pursued it . 
But he could not help it . 
Sue , he murmured , do you wish to make it up , and stay ? I'll forgive you and condone everything ! Oh you can't , you can't ! she said hastily . 
You can't condone it now ! He is your husband now , in effect , you mean , of course ? You may assume it . 
He is obtaining a divorce from his wife Arabella . 
His wife ! It is altogether news to me that he has a wife . 
It was a bad marriage . 
He is not doing it so much on his own account as on hers . 
She wrote and told him it would be a kindness to her , since then she could marry and live respectably . 
Ah , yes a kindness to her to release her altogether . 
But I don't like the sound of it . 
I can forgive , Sue . 
I'll come again may I ? I don't ask you to go , even now . 
I ask you to stay . 
I thank you , Richard but I must . 
When he called on the next occasion after Sue's visit his friend was downstairs , and Gillingham noticed that his restless mood had been supplanted by a more fixed and composed one . 
She's been here since you called last , said Phillotson . 
Not Mrs. Phillotson ? Yes . 
Ah ! You have made it up ? No. . 
She just came , patted my pillow with her little white hand , played the thoughtful nurse for half an hour , and went away . 
I believe that fact would afford me opportunity of doing it , though I did not see it at the moment . 
And for worldly reasons , too , it will be better for her to be independent . 
I shall probably have enough to do to make both ends meet during the remainder of my life , now my occupation's gone and I shall be better able to bear it alone . 
I may as well tell you that what has suggested my letting her go is some news she brought me the news that Fawley is doing the same . 
Oh he had a spouse , too ? A queer couple , these lovers ! Well I don't want your opinion on that . 
For then they'll be able to marry , as they ought to have done at first . 
Gillingham did not hurry to reply . 
I may disagree with your motive , he said gently , for he respected views he could not share . 
But I think you are right in your determination if you can carry it out . 
I doubt , however , if you can . 
Sue and Jude were living in Aldbrickham , in precisely the same relations that they had established between themselves when she left Shaston to join him the year before . 
The proceedings in the law courts had reached their consciousness , but as a distant sound and an occasional missive which they hardly understood . 
Sue kept house , and managed everything . 
As he entered the room this morning Sue held up a letter she had just received . 
Well and what is it about ? he said after kissing her . 
That the decree NISI in the case of Phillotson VERSUS Phillotson and Fawley , pronounced six months ago , has just been made absolute . 
Ah , said Jude , as he sat down . 
The same concluding incident in Jude's suit against Arabella had occurred about a month or two earlier . 
Both cases had been too insignificant to be reported in the papers , further than by name in a long list of other undefended cases . 
Now then , Sue , at any rate , you can do what you like ! He looked at his sweetheart curiously . 
But I wonder do you think it is really so with us ? I know it is generally . 
Jude don't ! You ought not to be touchy about that still . 
You must take me as I am . 
Very well , darling so I will . 
As to your question , we were not obliged to prove anything . 
Anyhow we are living together . 
Though not in their sense . 
One thing is certain , that however the decree may be brought about , a marriage is dissolved when it is dissolved . 
There is this advantage in being poor obscure people like us that these things are done for us in a rough and ready fashion . 
It was the same with me and Arabella . 
I was afraid her criminal second marriage would have been discovered , and she punished but nobody took any interest in her nobody inquired , nobody suspected it . 
If we'd been patented nobilities we should have had infinite trouble , and days and weeks would have been spent in investigations . 
Jude agreed , and Sue went up stairs and prepared to start , putting on a joyful coloured gown in observance of her liberty seeing which Jude put on a lighter tie . 
Now we'll strut arm and arm , he said , like any other engaged couple . 
We've a legal right to . 
The pair , however , were so absorbed in their own situation that their surroundings were little in their consciousness . 
Well , my dearest , the result of all this is that we can marry after a decent interval . 
Yes I suppose we can , said Sue , without enthusiasm . 
And aren't we going to ? I don't like to say no , dear Jude but I feel just the same about it now as I have done all along . 
I have just the same dread lest an iron contract should extinguish your tenderness for me , and mine for you , as it did between our unfortunate parents . 
Still , what can we do ? I do love you , as you know , Sue . 
But I think I would much rather go on living always as lovers , as we are living now , and only meeting by day . 
It is so much sweeter for the woman at least , and when she is sure of the man . 
And henceforward we needn't be so particular as we have been about appearances . 
Our experiences of matrimony with others have not been encouraging , I own , said he with some gloom either owing to our own dissatisfied , unpractical natures , or by our misfortune . 
But we two Should be two dissatisfied ones linked together , which would be twice as bad as before . 
No , no don't say I should change ! he expostulated yet there was misgiving in his own voice also . 
There would be a much likelier chance of his doing it if he were told not to love . 
Yes but admitting this , or something like it , to be true , you are not the only one in the world to see it , dear little Sue . 
People go on marrying because they can't resist natural forces , although many of them may know perfectly well that they are possibly buying a month's pleasure with a life's discomfort . 
No doubt my father and mother , and your father and mother , saw it , if they at all resembled us in habits of observation . 
But then they went and married just the same , because they had ordinary passions . 
Well , she sighed , you've owned that it would probably end in misery for us . 
And I am not so exceptional a woman as you think . 
Jude fell back upon his old complaint that , intimate as they were , he had never once had from her an honest , candid declaration that she loved or could love him . 
I really fear sometimes that you cannot , he said , with a dubiousness approaching anger . 
And you are so reticent . 
I know that women are taught by other women that they must never admit the full truth to a man . 
But the highest form of affection is based on full sincerity on both sides . 
The better class of man , even if caught by airy affectations of dodging and parrying , is not retained by them . 
Though I suppose I am so bad and worthless that I deserve the utmost rigour of lecturing ! No , you are not bad . 
But as slippery as an eel when I want to get a confession from you . 
Oh yes I am bad , and obstinate , and all sorts ! It is no use your pretending I am not ! People who are good don't want scolding as I do . 
After this the subject of marriage was not mentioned by them for several days , though living as they were with only a landing between them it was constantly in their minds . 
was to employ for the simple memorials they required for their dead . 
But he seemed more independent than before , and it was the only arrangement under which Sue , who particularly wished to be no burden on him , could render any assistance . 
II IT was an evening at the end of the month , and Jude had just returned home from hearing a lecture on ancient history in the public hall not far off . 
When he entered , Sue , who had been keeping indoors during his absence , laid out supper for him . 
Contrary to custom she did not speak . 
Jude had taken up some illustrated paper , which he perused till , raising his eyes , he saw that her face was troubled . 
Are you depressed , Sue ? he said . 
I have a message for you , she answered . 
Somebody has called ? Yes . 
Sue's voice quavered as she spoke , and she suddenly sat down from her preparations , laid her hands in her lap , and looked into the fire . 
I don't know whether I did right or not ! she continued . 
I said you were not at home , and when she said she would wait , I said I thought you might not be able to see her . 
Why did you say that , dear ? I suppose she wanted a headstone . 
Was she in mourning ? No. She wasn't in mourning , and she didn't want a headstone and I thought you couldn't see her . 
Sue looked critically and imploringly at him . 
But who was she ? Didn't she say ? No. She wouldn't give her name . 
But I know it was ! I feel perfectly certain it was by the light in her eyes as she looked at me . 
She was a fleshy , coarse woman . 
Well I should not have called Arabella coarse exactly , except in speech , though she may be getting so by this time under the duties of the public house . 
She was rather handsome when I knew her . 
Handsome ! But yes ! so she is ! I think I heard a quiver in your little mouth . 
But that was why she asked me to release her . 
She and the man both wanted to lead a proper life , as I understood . 
Oh Jude it was , it WAS Arabella ! cried Sue , covering her eyes with her hand . 
And I am so miserable ! It seems such an ill omen , whatever she may have come for . 
You could not possibly see her , could you ? I don't really think I could . 
It would be so very painful to talk to her now for her as much as for me . 
Did she say she would come again ? No. But she went away very reluctantly . 
Sue , whom the least thing upset , could not eat any supper , and when Jude had finished his he prepared to go to bed . 
He had no sooner raked out the fire , fastened the doors , and got to the top of the stairs than there came a knock . 
Sue instantly emerged from her room , which she had but just entered . 
There she is again ! Sue whispered in appalled accents . 
How do you know ? She knocked like that last time . 
They listened , and the knocking came again . 
No servant was kept in the house , and if the summons were to be responded to one of them would have to do it in person . 
I'll open a window , said Jude . 
Whoever it is cannot be expected to be let in at this time . 
He accordingly went into his bedroom and lifted the sash . 
The lonely street of early retiring workpeople was empty from end to end save of one figure that of a woman walking up and down by the lamp a few yards off . 
Who's there ? he asked . 
Is that Mr. Fawley ? came up from the woman , in a voice which was unmistakably Arabella's . 
Jude replied that it was . 
Is it she ? asked Sue from the door , with lips apart . 
Yes , dear , said Jude . 
What do you want , Arabella ? he inquired . 
I beg your pardon , Jude , for disturbing you , said Arabella humbly . 
But I called earlier I wanted particularly to see you to night , if I could . 
I am in trouble , and have nobody to help me ! In trouble , are you ? Yes . 
An inconvenient sympathy seemed to be rising in Jude's breast at the appeal . 
But aren't you married ? he said . 
No , Jude , I am not , she returned . 
He wouldn't , after all . 
And I am in great difficulty . 
I hope to get another situation as barmaid soon . 
But it takes time , and I really am in great distress because of a sudden responsibility that's been sprung upon me from Australia or I wouldn't trouble you believe me I wouldn't . 
I want to tell you about it . 
Sue remained at gaze , in painful tension , hearing every word , but speaking none . 
You are not really in want of money , Arabella ? he asked , in a distinctly softened tone . 
I have enough to pay for the night's lodging I have obtained , but barely enough to take me back again . 
Where are you living ? In London still . 
She was about to give the address , but she said , I am afraid somebody may hear , so I don't like to call out particulars of myself so loud . 
If you could come down and walk a little way with me towards the Prince Inn , where I am staying to night , I would explain all . 
You may as well , for old time's sake ! Poor thing ! I must do her the kindness of hearing what's the matter , I suppose , said Jude in much perplexity . 
As she's going back to morrow it can't make much difference . 
But you can go and see her to morrow , Jude ! Don't go now , Jude ! came in plaintive accents from the doorway . 
Don't attempt to detain me , Sue . 
God knows I love her little enough now , but I don't want to be cruel to her . 
He turned to the stairs . 
But she's not your wife ! cried Sue distractedly . 
And I And you are not either , dear , yet , said Jude . 
I've wanted you to be , and I've waited with the patience of Job , and I don't see that I've got anything by my self denial . 
She said no more , but , turning to her room as meekly as a martyr , heard him go down stairs , unbolt the door , and close it behind him . 
With a woman's disregard of her dignity when in the presence of nobody but herself , she also trotted down , sobbing articulately as she went . 
She knew exactly how far it was to the inn that Arabella had named as her lodging . 
It would occupy about seven minutes to get there at an ordinary walking pace seven to come back again . 
If he did not return in fourteen minutes he would have lingered . 
She looked at the clock . 
It was twenty five minutes to eleven . 
In a still suspense she waited on . 
It seemed as if the whole time had nearly elapsed when the door was opened again , and Jude appeared . 
Sue gave a little ecstatic cry . 
Oh , I knew I could trust you ! how good you are ! she began . 
I can't find her anywhere in this street , and I went out in my slippers only . 
She has walked on , thinking I've been so hard hearted as to refuse her requests entirely , poor woman . 
I've come back for my boots , as it is beginning to rain . 
Oh , but why should you take such trouble for a woman who has served you so badly ! said Sue in a jealous burst of disappointment . 
But , Sue , she's a woman , and I once cared for her and one can't be a brute in such circumstances . 
She isn't your wife any longer ! exclaimed Sue , passionately excited . 
You MUSTN'T go out to find her ! It isn't right ! You CAN'T join her , now she's a stranger to you . 
What those legal fellows have been playing at in London makes no difference in my real relations to her . 
If she was my wife while she was away in Australia with another husband she's my wife now . 
It is all very well to preach about self control , and the wickedness of coercing a woman . 
Yes , you have been good to me , Jude I know you have , my dear protector . 
Well Arabella has appealed to me for help . 
Very well then if I must I must . 
Since you will have it so , I agree ! I will be . 
Only I didn't mean to ! And I didn't want to marry again , either ! . 
But , yes I agree , I agree ! I do love you . 
I ought to have known that you would conquer in the long run , living like this ! She ran across and flung her arms round his neck . 
Then I'll let her go , said he , embracing Sue softly . 
I do feel that it would be unfair to you to see her , and perhaps unfair to her . 
She is not like you , my darling , and never was it is only bare justice to say that . 
There and there and there ! He kissed her on one side , and on the other , and in the middle , and rebolted the front door . 
The next morning it was wet . 
Banns will do ? We shall save a pound or two . 
Sue absently agreed to banns . 
But her mind for the moment was running on something else . 
A glow had passed away from her , and depression sat upon her features . 
I feel I was wickedly selfish last night ! she murmured . 
It was sheer unkindness in me or worse to treat Arabella as I did . 
I didn't care about her being in trouble , and what she wished to tell you ! Perhaps it was really something she was justified in telling you . 
That's some more of my badness , I suppose ! Love has its own dark morality when rivalry enters in at least , mine has , if other people's hasn't . 
I wonder how she got on ? I hope she reached the inn all right , poor woman . 
Oh yes she got on all right , said Jude placidly . 
I hope she wasn't shut out , and that she hadn't to walk the streets in the rain . 
Do you mind my putting on my waterproof and going to see if she got in ? I've been thinking of her all the morning . 
Well is it necessary ? You haven't the least idea how Arabella is able to shift for herself . 
Still , darling , if you want to go and inquire you can . 
And when you come back , he added , I'll be ready to go about the banns . 
You'll come with me ? Sue agreed , and went off under cloak and umbrella letting Jude kiss her freely , and returning his kisses in a way she had never done before . 
The little bird is caught at last ! she said , a sadness showing in her smile . 
No only nested , he assured her . 
She walked along the muddy street till she reached the public house mentioned by Arabella , which was not so very far off . 
She was asked to step upstairs , and on being shown into a room found that it was Arabella's bedroom , and that the latter had not yet risen . 
She halted on the turn of her toe till Arabella cried from the bed , Come in and shut the door , which Sue accordingly did . 
I've just looked in to see if you got back comfortably last night , that's all , she said gently . 
Indeed I don't , said Sue . 
Oh , I thought you might have , even if he's not really yours . 
Decency is decency , any hour of the twenty four . 
I don't know what you mean , said Sue stiffly . 
He is mine , if you come to that ! He wasn't yesterday . 
Sue coloured roseate , and said How do you know ? From your manner when you talked to me at the door . 
In the pause there was a knock at the door , and the chambermaid brought in a telegram for Mrs. Cartlett . 
Arabella opened it as she lay , and her ruffled look disappeared . 
I am much obliged to you for your anxiety about me , she said blandly when the maid had gone but it is not necessary you should feel it . 
My man finds he can't do without me after all , and agrees to stand by the promise to marry again over here that he has made me all along . 
See here ! This is in answer to one from me . 
She held out the telegram for Sue to read , but Sue did not take it . 
He asks me to come back . 
His little corner public in Lambeth would go to pieces without me , he says . 
But he isn't going to knock me about when he has had a drop , any more after we are spliced by English law than before ! . 
As for you , I should coax Jude to take me before the parson straight off , and have done with it , if I were in your place . 
I say it as a friend , my dear . 
He's waiting to , any day , returned Sue , with frigid pride . 
Then let him , in Heaven's name . 
Life with a man is more businesslike after it , and money matters work better . 
I shall marry my man over again , now he's willing , as there was a little flaw in the first ceremony . 
However , as it happens , it is just as well as if I had made it up , and I forgive you . 
And , as I say , I'd advise you to get the business legally done as soon as possible . 
You'll find it an awful bother later on if you don't . 
I have told you he is asking me to marry him to make our natural marriage a legal one , said Sue , with yet more dignity . 
It was quite by my wish that he didn't the moment I was free . 
Ah , yes you are a oneyer too , like myself , said Arabella , eyeing her visitor with humorous criticism . 
Bolted from your first , didn't you , like me ? Good morning ! I must go , said Sue hastily . 
And I , too , must up and off ! replied the other , springing out of bed so suddenly that the soft parts of her person shook . 
Sue jumped aside in trepidation . 
Lord , I am only a woman not a six foot sojer ! . 
Just a moment , dear , she continued , putting her hand on Sue's arm . 
I really did want to consult Jude on a little matter of business , as I told him . 
I came about that more than anything else . 
Would he run up to speak to me at the station as I am going ? You think not . 
Well , I'll write to him about it . 
I didn't want to write it , but never mind I will . 
III WHEN Sue reached home Jude was awaiting her at the door to take the initial step towards their marriage . 
She clasped his arm , and they went along silently together , as true comrades oft times do . 
He saw that she was preoccupied , and forbore to question her . 
Oh Jude I've been talking to her , she said at last . 
I wish I hadn't ! And yet it is best to be reminded of things . 
I hope she was civil . 
I I can't help liking her just a little bit ! She's not an ungenerous nature and I am so glad her difficulties have all suddenly ended . 
She explained how Arabella had been summoned back , and would be enabled to retrieve her position . 
I was referring to our old question . 
I wish I hadn't promised to let you put up the banns this morning ! Oh , don't mind me . 
Any time will do for me . 
I thought you might like to get it over quickly , now . 
Indeed , I don't feel any more anxious now than I did before . 
Perhaps with any other man I might be a little anxious but among the very few virtues possessed by your family and mine , dear , I think I may set staunchness . 
So I am not a bit frightened about losing you , now I really am yours and you really are mine . 
In fact , I am easier in my mind than I was , for my conscience is clear about Richard , who now has a right to his freedom . 
I felt we were deceiving him before . 
They had now reached the house of the parish clerk . 
Sue stood back , while her lover went up to the door . 
His hand was raised to knock when she said Jude ! He looked round . 
Wait a minute , would you mind ? He came back to her . 
Just let us think , she said timidly . 
I had such a horrid dream one night ! . 
Yes so we will ! said she . 
They thought it over , or postponed thinking . 
Certainly they postponed action , and seemed to live on in a dreamy paradise . 
At the end of a fortnight or three weeks matters remained unadvanced , and no banns were announced to the ears of any Aldbrickham congregation . 
Whilst they were postponing and postponing thus a letter and a newspaper arrived before breakfast one morning from Arabella . 
Seeing the handwriting Jude went up to Sue's room and told her , and as soon as she was dressed she hastened down . 
Sue opened the newspaper Jude the letter . 
After glancing at the paper she held across the first page to him with her finger on a paragraph but he was so absorbed in his letter that he did not turn awhile . 
The paper was one that circulated in South London only , and the marked advertisement was simply the announcement of a marriage at St . 
John's Church , Waterloo Road , under the names , CARTLETT DONN the united pair being Arabella and the inn keeper . 
Well , it is satisfactory , said Sue complacently . 
Though , after this , it seems rather low to do likewise , and I am glad . 
However , she is provided for now in a way , I suppose , whatever her faults , poor thing . 
It is nicer that we are able to think that , than to be uneasy about her . 
I ought , too , to write to Richard and ask him how he is getting on , perhaps ? But Jude's attention was still absorbed . 
Having merely glanced at the announcement he said in a disturbed voice Listen to this letter . 
What shall I say or do ? THE THREE HORNS , LAMBETH . 
, I send to day a newspaper , from which useful document you will learn that I was married over again to Cartlett last Tuesday . 
So that business is settled right and tight at last . 
But what I write about more particular is that private affair I wanted to speak to you on when I came down to Aldbrickham . 
All that is easily provable . 
I was then looking out for a good situation , so my parents took the child , and he has been with them ever since . 
That was why I did not mention it when I met you in Christminster , nor at the law proceedings . 
He is lawfully yours , that I solemnly swear . 
If anybody says he isn't , call them brimstone liars , for my sake . 
Whatever I may have done before or afterwards , I was honest to you from the time we were married till I went away , and I remain , yours , c . 
Sue's look was one of dismay . 
What will you do , dear ? she asked faintly . 
Jude did not reply , and Sue watched him anxiously , with heavy breaths . 
It hits me hard ! said he in an under voice . 
It MAY be true ! I can't make it out . 
Certainly , if his birth was exactly when she says , he's mine . 
I cannot think why she didn't tell me when I met her at Christminster , and came on here that evening with her ! . 
Ah I do remember now that she said something about having a thing on her mind that she would like me to know , if ever we lived together again . 
The poor child seems to be wanted by nobody ! Sue replied , and her eyes filled . 
Jude had by this time come to himself . 
What a view of life he must have , mine or not mine ! he said . 
I must say that , if I were better off , I should not stop for a moment to think whose he might be . 
I would take him and bring him up . 
Sue jumped up and kissed Jude with passionate devotion . 
Yes so it is , dearest ! And we'll have him here ! And if he isn't yours it makes it all the better . 
I feel that , anyhow , I don't like to leave the unfortunate little fellow to neglect . 
Whether or no , we must have him . 
I'll do the best I can to be a mother to him , and we can afford to keep him somehow . 
I wonder when he'll arrive ? In the course of a few weeks , I suppose . 
I wish When shall we have courage to marry , Jude ? Whenever you have it , I think I shall . 
It remains with you entirely , dear . 
Only say the word , and it's done . 
Before the boy comes ? Certainly . 
It would make a more natural home for him , perhaps , she murmured . 
In the band of his hat his half ticket was stuck . 
His eyes remained mostly fixed on the back of the seat opposite , and never turned to the window even when a station was reached and called . 
On the other seat were two or three passengers , one of them a working woman who held a basket on her lap , in which was a tabby kitten . 
The woman opened the cover now and then , whereupon the kitten would put out its head , and indulge in playful antics . 
Rightly looked at there is no laughable thing under the sun . 
Occasionally at a stoppage the guard would look into the compartment and say to the boy , All right , my man . 
Your box is safe in the van . 
The boy would say , Yes , without animation , would try to smile , and fail . 
He was Age masquerading as Juvenility , and doing it so badly that his real self showed through crevices . 
The train reached Aldbrickham , and the boy was deposited on the lonely platform beside his box . 
The collector took his ticket and , with a meditative sense of the unfitness of things , asked him where he was going by himself at that time of night . 
Going to Spring Street , said the little one impassively . 
Why , that's a long way from here a'most out in the country and the folks will be gone to bed . 
I've got to go there . 
You must have a fly for your box . 
Oh well you'd better leave your box here and send for it . 
There's a 'bus goes half way , but you'll have to walk the rest . 
Why didn't your friends come to meet 'ee ? I suppose they didn't know I was coming . 
Who is your friends ? Mother didn't wish me to say . 
All I can do , then , is to take charge of this . 
Now walk as fast as you can . 
Saying nothing further the boy came out into the street , looking round to see that nobody followed or observed him . 
When he had walked some little distance he asked for the street of his destination . 
He was told to go straight on quite into the outskirts of the place . 
The child fell into a steady mechanical creep which had in it an impersonal quality the movement of the wave , or of the breeze , or of the cloud . 
He followed his directions literally , without an inquiring gaze at anything . 
It could have been seen that the boy's ideas of life were different from those of the local boys . 
Children begin with detail , and learn up to the general they begin with the contiguous , and gradually comprehend the universal . 
The boy seemed to have begun with the generals of life , and never to have concerned himself with the particulars . 
He found the way to the little lane , and knocked at the door of Jude's house . 
Jude had just retired to bed , and Sue was about to enter her chamber adjoining when she heard the knock and came down . 
Is this where Father lives ? asked the child . 
Who ? Mr. Fawley , that's his name . 
Sue ran up to Jude's room and told him , and he hurried down as soon as he could , though to her impatience he seemed long . 
What is it he so soon ? she asked as Jude came . 
She scrutinized the child's features , and suddenly went away into the little sitting room adjoining . 
He found her in the dark , bending over an arm chair . 
Never mind ! Time may right things . 
And Sue , darling I have an idea ! We'll educate and train him with a view to the university . 
What I couldn't accomplish in my own person perhaps I can carry out through him ? They are making it easier for poor students now , you know . 
Oh you dreamer ! said she , and holding his hand returned to the child with him . 
The boy looked at her as she had looked at him . 
Is it you who's my REAL mother at last ? he inquired . 
Why ? Do I look like your father's wife ? Well , yes 'cept he seems fond of you , and you of him . 
Can I call you Mother ? Then a yearning look came over the child and he began to cry . 
You may call me Mother , if you wish to , my poor dear ! she said , bending her cheek against his to hide her tears . 
What's this round your neck ? asked Jude with affected calmness . 
The key of my box that's at the station . 
They bustled about and got him some supper , and made him up a temporary bed , where he soon fell asleep . 
Both went and looked at him as he lay . 
He called you Mother two or three times before he dropped off , murmured Jude . 
Wasn't it odd that he should have wanted to ! Well it was significant , said Sue . 
There's more for us to think about in that one little hungry heart than in all the stars of the sky . 
IV THEIR next and second attempt thereat was more deliberately made , though it was begun on the morning following the singular child's arrival at their home . 
Him they found to be in the habit of sitting silent , his quaint and weird face set , and his eyes resting on things they did not see in the substantial world . 
His face is like the tragic mask of Melpomene , said Sue . 
What is your name , dear ? Did you tell us ? Little Father Time is what they always called me . 
It is a nickname because I look so aged , they say . 
And you talk so , too , said Sue tenderly . 
It is strange , Jude , that these preternaturally old boys almost always come from new countries . 
But what were you christened ? I never was . 
Why was that ? Because , if I died in damnation , 'twould save the expense of a Christian funeral . 
Oh your name is not Jude , then ? said his father with some disappointment . 
The boy shook his head . 
Of course not , said Sue quickly since she was hating you all the time ! We'll have him christened , said Jude and privately to Sue The day we are married . 
Yet the advent of the child disturbed him . 
Both Sue and Jude together went to the office of the district to give notice they had become such companions that they could hardly do anything of importance except in each other's company . 
Jude Fawley signed the form of notice , Sue looking over his shoulder and watching his hand as it traced the words . 
Rank or Occupation Age Dwelling at Length of Residence Church or Building in which the Marriage is to be solemnized District and County in which the Parties respectively dwell . 
It spoils the sentiment , doesn't it ! she said on their way home . 
It seems making a more sordid business of it even than signing the contract in a vestry . 
There is a little poetry in a church . 
But we'll try to get through with it , dearest , now . 
So said the Jewish law giver . 
How you know the Scriptures , Jude ! You really ought to have been a parson . 
She could not bear its aspect . 
Coming after her previous experience of matrimony , all the romance of their attachment seemed to be starved away by placing her present case in the same category . 
She was usually leading little Father Time by the hand , and fancied that people thought him hers , and regarded the intended ceremony as the patching up of an old error . 
Well , I bain't set against marrying as your great aunt was , said the widow . 
And I hope 'twill be a jocund wedding for ye in all respects this time . 
Nobody can hope it more , knowing what I do of your families , which is more , I suppose , than anybody else now living . 
For they have been unlucky that way , God knows . 
They was always good hearted people , too wouldn't kill a fly if they knowed it , continued the wedding guest . 
But things happened to thwart 'em , and if everything wasn't vitty they were upset . 
No doubt that's how he that the tale is told of came to do what 'a did if he WERE one of your family . 
What was that ? said Jude . 
But Lord , 'twas in my grandfather's time and it medn' have been one of your folk at all . 
I know where the gibbet is said to have stood , very well , murmured Jude . 
But I never heard of this . 
What did this man my ancestor and Sue's kill his wife ? 'Twer not that exactly . 
She ran away from him , with their child , to her friends and while she was there the child died . 
He wanted the body , to bury it where his people lay , but she wouldn't give it up . 
They brought it in burglary , and that's why he was hanged and gibbeted on Brown House Hill . 
His wife went mad after he was dead . 
But it medn't be true that he belonged to ye more than to me . 
Oh , it is only a tale , said Sue cheeringly . 
After this exhilarating tradition from the widow on the eve of the solemnization they rose , and , wishing their guest good night , retired . 
The next morning Sue , whose nervousness intensified with the hours , took Jude privately into the sitting room before starting . 
Jude , I want you to kiss me , as a lover , incorporeally , she said , tremulously nestling up to him , with damp lashes . 
It won't be ever like this any more , will it ! I wish we hadn't begun the business . 
But I suppose we must go on . 
How horrid that story was last night ! It spoilt my thoughts of to day . 
It makes me feel as if a tragic doom overhung our family , as it did the house of Atreus . 
Or the house of Jeroboam , said the quondam theologian . 
I had hoped you would feel quite joyful . 
But if you don't , you don't . 
It is no use pretending . 
It is a dismal business to you , and that makes it so to me ! It is unpleasantly like that other morning that's all , she murmured . 
Let us go on now . 
They started arm in arm for the office aforesaid , no witness accompanying them except the Widow Edlin . 
The day was chilly and dull , and a clammy fog blew through the town from Royal tower'd Thame . 
Sue , Jude , and the widow stood in the background while this was going on , Sue reading the notices of marriage on the wall . 
The room was a dreary place to two of their temperament , though to its usual frequenters it doubtless seemed ordinary enough . 
Law books in musty calf covered one wall , and elsewhere were post office directories , and other books of reference . 
The soldier was sullen and reluctant the bride sad and timid she was soon , obviously , to become a mother , and she had a black eye . 
She met him at the gaol gates , and brought him straight here . 
They jocosely saluted the outgoing couple , and went forward in front of Jude and Sue , whose diffidence was increasing . 
It is not so vulgar there ! Dear little girl , said Jude . 
How troubled and pale you look ! It must be performed here now , I suppose ? No perhaps not necessarily . 
He spoke to the clerk , and came back . 
No we need not marry here or anywhere , unless we like , even now , he said . 
We can be married in a church , if not with the same certificate with another he'll give us , I think . 
Anyhow , let us go out till you are calmer , dear , and I too , and talk it over . 
When in the street they turned into an unfrequented side alley where they walked up and down as they had done long ago in the market house at Melchester . 
Now , darling , what shall we do ? We are making a mess of it , it strikes me . 
Still , ANYTHING that pleases you will please me . 
The place depressed me almost as much as it did you it was ugly . 
And then I thought of what you had said this morning as to whether we ought . 
Jude went up and looked in at the door . 
Why it is a wedding here too , he said . 
Everybody seems to be on our tack to day . 
Sue said she supposed it was because Lent was just over , when there was always a crowd of marriages . 
Let us listen , she said , and find how it feels to us when performed in a church . 
They stepped in , and entered a back seat , and watched the proceedings at the altar . 
The contracting couple appeared to belong to the well to do middle class , and the wedding altogether was of ordinary prettiness and interest . 
Sue and Jude listened , and severally saw themselves in time past going through the same form of self committal . 
It is not the same to her , poor thing , as it would be to me doing it over again with my present knowledge , Sue whispered . 
You see , they are fresh to it , and take the proceedings as a matter of course . 
Coming in here and seeing this has frightened me from a church wedding as much as the other did from a registry one . 
I fancy I do think it since you ask me , said Jude . 
Remember I'll do it if you wish , own darling . 
We are horribly sensitive that's really what's the matter with us , Sue ! he declared . 
I fancy more are like us than we think ! Well , I don't know . 
Sue still held that there was not much queer or exceptional in them that all were so . 
Everybody is getting to feel as we do . 
We are a little beforehand , that's all . 
In fifty , a hundred , years the descendants of these two will act and feel worse than we . 
They will see weltering humanity still more vividly than we do now , as Shapes like our own selves hideously multiplied , and will be afraid to reproduce them . 
What a terrible line of poetry ! . 
though I have felt it myself about my fellow creatures , at morbid times . 
He gave her a little kiss behind a pillar while the attention of everybody present was taken up in observing the bridal procession entering the vestry and then they came outside the building . 
By the door they waited till two or three carriages , which had gone away for a while , returned , and the new husband and wife came into the open daylight . 
Yes some are like that , instead of uniting with the man against the common enemy , coercion . 
The bride and bridegroom had by this time driven off , and the two moved away with the rest of the idlers . 
No don't let's do it , she continued . 
They reached home , and passing the window arm in arm saw the widow looking out at them . 
He'll think it has all gone on right , and it will be better that he should not be surprised and puzzled . 
Of course it is only put off for reconsideration . 
That the twain were happy between their times of sadness was indubitable . 
But the pair tried to dismiss , for a while at least , a too strenuously forward view . 
There is in Upper Wessex an old town of nine or ten thousand souls the town may be called Stoke Barehills . 
The great western highway from London passes through it , near a point where the road branches into two , merely to unite again some twenty miles further westward . 
Out of this bifurcation and reunion there used to arise among wheeled travellers , before railway days , endless questions of choice between the respective ways . 
It is the week of the Great Wessex Agricultural Show , whose vast encampment spreads over the open outskirts of the town like the tents of an investing army . 
It is the popular day , the shilling day , and of the fast arriving excursion trains two from different directions enter the two contiguous railway stations at almost the same minute . 
They cast their eyes around . 
The man was about to hire a fly as some others had done , when the woman said , Don't be in such a hurry , Cartlett . 
It isn't so very far to the show yard . 
Let us walk down the street into the place . 
Perhaps I can pick up a cheap bit of furniture or old china . 
It is years since I was here never since I lived as a girl at Aldbrickham , and used to come across for a trip sometimes with my young man . 
The configuration of the landlord showed that he , too , like his customers , was becoming affected by the liquors he retailed . 
Then I'll get it sent , if I see any worth having , said his wife . 
They were walking just in front of the inn keepers . 
Sakes alive ! said Arabella . 
What's that ? said Cartlett . 
Who do you think that couple is ? Don't you recognize the man ? No. Not from the photos I have showed you ? Is it Fawley ? Yes of course . 
I suppose he was inclined for a little sight seeing like the rest of us . 
Her answers to Cartlett's remarks were vague and slight , for the group in front interested her more than all the rest of the spectacle . 
They are rather fond of one another and of their child , seemingly , continued the publican . 
THEIR child ! 'Tisn't their child , said Arabella with a curious , sudden covetousness . 
Mr. Cartlett had no other idea than that his wife's child by her first husband was with his grandparents at the Antipodes . 
She looks quite a girl . 
They are only lovers , or lately married , and have the child in charge , as anybody can see . 
All continued to move ahead . 
Jude , in his light grey holiday suit , was really proud of her companionship , not more for her external attractiveness than for her sympathetic words and ways . 
That complete mutual understanding , in which every glance and movement was as effectual as speech for conveying intelligence between them , made them almost the two parts of a single whole . 
The pair with their charge passed through the turnstiles , Arabella and her husband not far behind them . 
How she sticks to him ! said Arabella . 
Oh no I fancy they are not married , or they wouldn't be so much to one another as that . 
As far as they themselves are concerned they are the only two in the show . 
I should be ashamed of making myself so silly if I were he ! I don't see as how there's anything remarkable in their behaviour . 
I should never have noticed their being in love , if you hadn't said so . 
You never see anything , she rejoined . 
Nevertheless Cartlett's view of the lovers' or married pair's conduct was undoubtedly that of the general crowd , whose attention seemed to be in no way attracted by what Arabella's sharpened vision discerned . 
He's charmed by her as if she were some fairy ! continued Arabella . 
See how he looks round at her , and lets his eyes rest on her . 
I am inclined to think that she don't care for him quite so much as he does for her . 
There now they are going across to the cart horse sheds . 
I don't want to see the cart horses . 
It is no business of ours to follow these two . 
If we have come to see the show let us see it in our own way , as they do in theirs . 
Before , however , she had regained their wake a laughing face met her own , and she was confronted by Anny , the friend of her girlhood . 
Anny had burst out in hearty laughter at the mere fact of the chance encounter . 
I am still living down there , she said , as soon as she was composed . 
I am soon going to be married , but my intended couldn't come up here to day . 
But there's lots of us come by excursion , though I've lost the rest of 'em for the present . 
Have you met Jude and his young woman , or wife , or whatever she is ? I saw 'em by now . 
No. Not a glimpse of un for years ! Well , they are close by here somewhere . 
Yes there they are by that grey horse ! Oh , that's his present young woman wife did you say ? Has he married again ? I don't know . 
She's pretty , isn't she ! Yes nothing to complain of or jump at . 
Not much to depend on , though a slim , fidgety little thing like that . 
He's a nice looking chap , too ! You ought to ha' stuck to un , Arabella . 
I don't know but I ought , murmured she . 
That's you , Arabella ! Always wanting another man than your own . 
And perhaps , Abby dear , you don't know what she calls love . 
I'm sure I don't wish to ! . 
Ah they are making for the art department . 
I should like to see some pictures myself . 
Suppose we go that way ? Why , if all Wessex isn't here , I verily believe ! There's Dr . 
Haven't seen him for years , and he's not looking a day older than when I used to know him . 
How do you do , Physician ? I was just saying that you don't look a day older than when you knew me as a girl . 
Simply the result of taking my own pills regular , ma'am . 
Only two and threepence a box warranted efficacious by the Government stamp . 
Now let me advise you to purchase the same immunity from the ravages of time by following my example ? Only two and three . 
The physician had produced a box from his waistcoat pocket , and Arabella was induced to make the purchase . 
Ah you lost him , then ? Promising young fellow ! A pupil of mine , you know . 
I taught him the dead languages . 
And believe me , he soon knew nearly as much as I. I lost him but not as you think , said Arabella dryly The lawyers untied us . 
There he is , look , alive and lusty along with that young woman , entering the art exhibition . 
Ah dear me ! Fond of her , apparently . 
They SAY they are cousins . 
Cousinship is a great convenience to their feelings , I should say ? Yes . 
So her husband thought , no doubt , when he divorced her . 
Shall we look at the pictures , too ? The trio followed across the green and entered . 
Arabella and her friends came to it in due course , and the inscription it bore was Model of Cardinal College , Christminster by J. Fawley and S. F. M. Bridehead . 
Admiring their own work , said Arabella . 
How like Jude always thinking of colleges and Christminster , instead of attending to his business ! They glanced cursorily at the pictures , and proceeded to the band stand . 
When they had stood a little while listening to the music of the military performers , Jude , Sue , and the child came up on the other side . 
She walked round the outside of the listening throng , passing behind the lovers , whose movements had an unexpected fascination for her to day . 
Silly fools like two children ! Arabella whispered to herself morosely , as she rejoined her companions , with whom she preserved a preoccupied silence . 
Anny meanwhile had jokingly remarked to Vilbert on Arabella's hankering interest in her first husband . 
He produced a small phial of clear liquid . 
A love philtre , such as was used by the ancients with great effect . 
I found it out by study of their writings , and have never known it to fail . 
What is it made of ? asked Arabella curiously . 
Well a distillation of the juices of doves' hearts otherwise pigeons' is one of the ingredients . 
It took nearly a hundred hearts to produce that small bottle full . 
In a few hours the birds come to it from all points of the compass east , west , north , and south and thus I secure as many as I require . 
You use the liquid by contriving that the desired man shall take about ten drops of it in his drink . 
But remember , all this is told you because I gather from your questions that you mean to be a purchaser . 
You must keep faith with me ? Very well I don't mind a bottle to give some friend or other to try it on her young man . 
She produced five shillings , the price asked , and slipped the phial in her capacious bosom . 
She waited a few minutes observing them , and then proceeded to join her spouse with no very amiable sentiments . 
She found him seated on a stool by the bar , talking to one of the gaily dressed maids who had served him with spirits . 
I should think you had enough of this business at home ! Arabella remarked gloomily . 
And they left the tent together , this pot bellied man and florid woman , in the antipathetic , recriminatory mood of the average husband and wife of Christendom . 
I should like to push my face quite into them the dears ! she had said . 
Why ? Because you have come to the great Wessex Agricultural Show or because we have come ? You are always trying to make me confess to all sorts of absurdities . 
Because I am improving my mind , of course , by seeing all these steam ploughs , and threshing machines , and chaff cutters , and cows , and pigs , and sheep . 
Jude was quite content with a baffle from his ever evasive companion . 
There is one immediate shadow , however only one . 
And she looked at the aged child , whom , though they had taken him to everything likely to attract a young intelligence , they had utterly failed to interest . 
He knew what they were saying and thinking . 
I am very , very sorry , Father and Mother , he said . 
But please don't mind ! I can't help it . 
The result was that shortly after the attempt at the registrar's the pair went off to London it was believed for several days , hiring somebody to look to the boy . 
When they came back they let it be understood indirectly , and with total indifference and weariness of mien , that they were legally married at last . 
Sue , who had previously been called Mrs. Bridehead now openly adopted the name of Mrs. Fawley . 
Her dull , cowed , and listless manner for days seemed to substantiate all this . 
A living mystery was not much less interesting than a dead scandal . 
And their temperaments were precisely of a kind to suffer from this atmosphere , and to be indisposed to lighten it by vigorous and open statements . 
Their apparent attempt at reparation had come too late to be effective . 
One evening he sat down to share the common meal with Sue and the child as usual . 
I am thinking , he said to her , that I'll hold on here no longer . 
The life suits us , certainly but if we could get away to a place where we are unknown , we should be lighter hearted , and have a better chance . 
Well I am not sorry , said she presently . 
I am much depressed by the way they look at me here . 
And you have been keeping on this house and furniture entirely for me and the boy ! You don't want it yourself , and the expense is unnecessary . 
You won't take him away from me ? Certainly I won't , dear little girl ! We'll get nice lodgings , wherever we go . 
I shall be moving about probably getting a job here and a job there . 
I shall do something too , of course , till till Well , now I can't be useful in the lettering it behoves me to turn my hand to something else . 
Don't hurry about getting employment , he said regretfully . 
I don't want you to do that . 
I wish you wouldn't , Sue . 
The boy and yourself are enough for you to attend to . 
There was a knock at the door , and Jude answered it . 
Sue could hear the conversation Is Mr. Fawley at home ? . 
Biles and Willis the building contractors sent me to know if you'll undertake the relettering of the ten commandments in a little church they've been restoring lately in the country near here . 
Jude reflected , and said he could undertake it . 
It is not a very artistic job , continued the messenger . 
The clergyman is a very old fashioned chap , and he has refused to let anything more be done to the church than cleaning and repairing . 
Excellent old man ! said Sue to herself , who was sentimentally opposed to the horrors of over restoration . 
A bargain as to terms was struck , and Jude came indoors . 
There , you see , he said cheerfully . 
One more job yet , at any rate , and you can help in it at least you can try . 
We shall have all the church to ourselves , as the rest of the work is finished . 
Next day Jude went out to the church , which was only two miles off . 
He found that what the contractor's clerk had said was true . 
The tables of the Jewish law towered sternly over the utensils of Christian grace , as the chief ornament of the chancel end , in the fine dry style of the last century . 
And as their framework was constructed of ornamental plaster they could not be taken down for repair . 
A portion , crumbled by damp , required renewal and when this had been done , and the whole cleansed , he began to renew the lettering . 
On the second morning Sue came to see what assistance she could render , and also because they liked to be together . 
She was quite pleased at her powers she had acquired them in the days she painted illumined texts for the church fitting shop at Christminster . 
Nobody seemed likely to disturb them and the pleasant twitter of birds , and rustle of October leafage , came in through an open window , and mingled with their talk . 
They were not , however , to be left thus snug and peaceful for long . 
About half past twelve there came footsteps on the gravel without . 
The old vicar and his churchwarden entered , and , coming up to see what was being done , seemed surprised to discover that a young woman was assisting . 
They passed on into an aisle , at which time the door again opened , and another figure entered a small one , that of little Time , who was crying . 
Sue had told him where he might find her between school hours , if he wished . 
The child went into the churchyard , and Sue returned to her work . 
Meanwhile the door had opened again , and there shuffled in with a businesslike air the white aproned woman who cleaned the church . 
Sue recognized her as one who had friends in Spring Street , whom she visited . 
The church cleaner looked at Sue , gaped , and lifted her hands she had evidently recognized Jude's companion as the latter had recognized her . 
Not ? Then she ought to be , or somebody's that's very clear ! They've only been married a very few weeks , whether or no . 
In them days Commandments were mostly done in gilt letters on a black ground , and that's how they were out where I say , before the owld church was rebuilded . 
It must have been somewhere about a hundred years ago that them Commandments wanted doing up just as ours do here , and they had to get men from Aldbrickham to do 'em . 
As evening drawed on they sent for some more themselves rum , by all account . 
No sooner had they tossed off their glasses than , so the story goes they fell down senseless , one and all . 
When it got daylight they could see that the work was really finished , and couldn't at all mind finishing it themselves . 
Decent people wouldn't attend service there for a long time , and the Bishop had to be sent for to reconsecrate the church . 
That's the tradition as I used to hear it as a child . 
You must take it for what it is wo'th , but this case to day has reminded me o't , as I say . 
Never mind , comrade ! he said . 
However , in a few minutes Sue seemed to see that their position this morning had a ludicrous side , and wiping her eyes she laughed . 
And with her hand over her eyes she laughed again silently and intermittently , till she was quite weak . 
That's better , said Jude gaily . 
Now we are right again , aren't we , little girl ! Oh but it is serious , all the same ! she sighed as she took up the brush and righted herself . 
But do you see they don't think we are married ? They WON'T believe it ! It is extraordinary ! I don't care whether they think so or not , said Jude . 
I shan't take any more trouble to make them . 
He beckoned to Jude , and spoke to him apart . 
Here I've just had a complaint about this , he said , with rather breathless awkwardness . 
I'll pay you for the week , all the same . 
Jude was too independent to make any fuss and the contractor paid him , and left . 
Jude picked up his tools , and Sue cleansed her brush . 
How could we be so simple as to suppose we might do this ! said she , dropping to her tragic note . 
Of course we ought not I ought not to have come ! I had no idea that anybody was going to intrude into such a lonely place and see us ! Jude returned . 
Well , it can't be helped , dear and of course I wouldn't wish to injure Willis's trade connection by staying . 
They sat down passively for a few minutes , proceeded out of the church , and overtaking the boy pursued their thoughtful way to Aldbrickham . 
A few evenings after his dismissal from the church repairs , and before he had obtained any more work to do , he went to attend a meeting of the aforesaid committee . 
It was late when he arrived all the others had come , and as he entered they looked dubiously at him , and hardly uttered a word of greeting . 
He guessed that something bearing on himself had been either discussed or mooted . 
Some ordinary business was transacted , and it was disclosed that the number of subscriptions had shown a sudden falling off for that quarter . 
Nothing further was said in Jude's presence , but he knew what this meant and turning to the table wrote a note resigning his office there and then . 
Thus the supersensitive couple were more and more impelled to go away . 
The day of the sale came on and Sue for the last time cooked her own , the child's , and Jude's breakfast in the little house he had furnished . 
Their door was tried once or twice , and to guard themselves against intrusion Jude wrote Private on a scrap of paper , and stuck it upon the panel . 
They soon found that , instead of the furniture , their own personal histories and past conduct began to be discussed to an unexpected and intolerable extent by the intending bidders . 
It was not till now that they really discovered what a fools' paradise of supposed unrecognition they had been living in of late . 
At length the auction began in the room below , whence they could hear each familiar article knocked down , the highly prized ones cheaply , the unconsidered at an unexpected price . 
People don't understand us , he sighed heavily . 
I am glad we have decided to go . 
The question is , where to ? It ought to be to London . 
There one can live as one chooses . 
No not London , dear ! I know it well . 
We should be unhappy there . 
Why ? Can't you think ? Because Arabella is there ? That's the chief reason . 
But in the country I shall always be uneasy lest there should be some more of our late experience . 
And I don't care to lessen it by explaining , for one thing , all about the boy's history . 
To cut him off from his past I have determined to keep silence . 
I am sickened of ecclesiastical work now and I shouldn't like to accept it , if offered me ! You ought to have learnt classic . 
Gothic is barbaric art , after all . 
Pugin was wrong , and Wren was right . 
Remember the interior of Christminster Cathedral almost the first place in which we looked in each other's faces . 
Under the picturesqueness of those Norman details one can see the grotesque childishness of uncouth people trying to imitate the vanished Roman forms , remembered by dim tradition only . 
Yes you have half converted me to that view by what you have said before . 
But one can work , and despise what one does . 
I must do something , if not church gothic . 
I wish we could both follow an occupation in which personal circumstances don't count , she said , smiling up wistfully . 
I am as disqualified for teaching as you are for ecclesiastical art . 
You must fall back upon railway stations , bridges , theatres , music halls , hotels everything that has no connection with conduct . 
I am not skilled in those . 
I ought to take to bread baking . 
I grew up in the baking business with aunt , you know . 
But even a baker must be conventional , to get customers . 
Unless he keeps a cake and gingerbread stall at markets and fairs , where people are gloriously indifferent to everything except the quality of the goods . 
I wish we could have kept the poor old thing ! One by one the articles went , and the afternoon passed away . 
Jude and the other two were getting tired and hungry , but after the conversation they had heard they were shy of going out while the purchasers were in their line of retreat . 
However , the later lots drew on , and it became necessary to emerge into the rain soon , to take on Sue's things to their temporary lodging . 
They were Sue's pets , and when it was found that they could not possibly be kept , more sadness was caused than by parting from all the furniture . 
The purchaser was a neighbouring poulterer , and they were unquestionably doomed to die before the next market day . 
Noting her dissembled distress Jude kissed her , and said it was time to go and see if the lodgings were ready . 
He would go on with the boy , and fetch her soon . 
When she was left alone she waited patiently , but Jude did not come back . 
At last she started , the coast being clear , and on passing the poulterer's shop , not far off , she saw her pigeons in a hamper by the door . 
The cover was lifted from within , and the pigeons flew away with a clatter that brought the chagrined poulterer cursing and swearing to the door . 
Sue reached the lodging trembling , and found Jude and the boy making it comfortable for her . 
Do the buyers pay before they bring away the things ? she asked breathlessly . 
Why ? Because , then , I've done such a wicked thing ! And she explained , in bitter contrition . 
I shall have to pay the poulterer for them , if he doesn't catch them , said Jude . 
Don't fret about it , dear . 
It was so foolish of me ! Oh why should Nature's law be mutual butchery ! Is it so , Mother ? asked the boy intently . 
Yes ! said Sue vehemently . 
Well , they must take their chance , now , poor things , said Jude . 
As soon as the sale account is wound up , and our bills paid , we go . 
Where do we go to ? asked Time , in suspense . 
We must sail under sealed orders , that nobody may trace us . 
We mustn't go to Alfredston , or to Melchester , or to Shaston , or to Christminster . 
Apart from those we may go anywhere . 
VII FROM that week Jude Fawley and Sue walked no more in the town of Aldbrickham . 
Whither they had gone nobody knew , chiefly because nobody cared to know . 
Wherever Jude heard of free stone work to be done , thither he went , choosing by preference places remote from his old haunts and Sue's . 
He laboured at a job , long or briefly , till it was finished and then moved on . 
Two whole years and a half passed thus . 
At some of these places he would be detained for months , at others only a few weeks . 
He was mentally approaching the position which Sue had occupied when he first met her . 
On a Saturday evening in May , nearly three years after Arabella's recognition of Sue and himself at the agricultural show , some of those who there encountered each other met again . 
At this hour a light trap , among other vehicles , was driven into the town by the north road , and up to the door of a temperance inn . 
There alighted two women , one the driver , an ordinary country person , the other a finely built figure in the deep mourning of a widow . 
Her sombre suit , of pronounced cut , caused her to appear a little out of place in the medley and bustle of a provincial fair . 
I begin to feel quite a sinking . 
With all my heart , said the other . 
Though I would sooner have put up at the Chequers or The Jack . 
You can't get much at these temperance houses . 
Now , don't you give way to gluttonous desires , my child , said the woman in weeds reprovingly . 
This is the proper place . 
Very well we'll meet in half an hour , unless you come with me to find out where the site of the new chapel is ? I don't care to . 
The companions then went their several ways , the one in crape walking firmly along with a mien of disconnection from her miscellaneous surroundings . 
Having ascertained thus much the immensely weeded widow retraced her steps , and gave herself leisure to observe the movements of the fair . 
By and by her attention was arrested by a little stall of cakes and ginger breads , standing between the more pretentious erections of trestles and canvas . 
Upon my senses ! murmured the widow to herself . 
His wife Sue if she is so ! She drew nearer to the stall . 
How do you do , Mrs. Fawley ? she said blandly . 
Sue changed colour and recognized Arabella through the crape veil . 
How are you , Mrs. Cartlett ? she said stiffly . 
And then perceiving Arabella's garb her voice grew sympathetic in spite of herself . 
What ? you have lost My poor husband . 
He died suddenly , six weeks ago , leaving me none too well off , though he was a kind husband to me . 
But whatever profit there is in public house keeping goes to them that brew the liquors , and not to them that retail 'em . 
And you , my little old man ! You don't know me , I expect ? Yes , I do . 
Juey , said Sue suddenly , go down to the station platform with this tray there's another train coming in , I think . 
Jude is going to tell him when he is a little older . 
But how do you come to be doing this ? I am surprised . 
It is only a temporary occupation a fancy of ours while we are in a difficulty . 
Then you are living with him still ? Yes . 
And another coming soon , I see . 
Sue writhed under the hard and direct questioning , and her tender little mouth began to quiver . 
But you don't tell me why you do such a thing as this ? Jude used to be a proud sort of chap above any business almost , leave alone keeping a standing . 
Perhaps my husband has altered a little since then . 
I am sure he is not proud now ! And Sue's lips quivered again . 
Well , I am respectable too , thank God , and of a serious way of thinking since my loss . 
Why did you choose to sell gingerbreads ? That's a pure accident . 
He was brought up to the baking business , and it occurred to him to try his hand at these , which he can make without coming out of doors . 
We call them Christminster cakes . 
They are a great success . 
I never saw any like 'em . 
Why , they are windows and towers , and pinnacles ! And upon my word they are very nice . 
She had helped herself , and was unceremoniously munching one of the cakes . 
They are reminiscences of the Christminster Colleges . 
Traceried windows , and cloisters , you see . 
It was a whim of his to do them in pastry . 
Still harping on Christminster even in his cakes ! laughed Arabella . 
What a queer fellow he is , and always will be ! Sue sighed , and she looked her distress at hearing him criticized . 
He still thinks it a great centre of high and fearless thought , instead of what it is , a nest of commonplace schoolmasters whose characteristic is timid obsequiousness to tradition . 
Arabella was quizzing Sue with more regard of how she was speaking than of what she was saying . 
How odd to hear a woman selling cakes talk like that ! she said . 
Why don't you go back to school keeping ? She shook her head . 
Because of the divorce , I suppose ? That and other things . 
And there is no reason to wish it . 
We gave up all ambition , and were never so happy in our lives till his illness came . 
Where are you living ? I don't care to say . 
Here in Kennetbridge ? Sue's manner showed Arabella that her random guess was right . 
Here comes the boy back again , continued Arabella . 
My boy and Jude's ! Sue's eyes darted a spark . 
You needn't throw that in my face ! she cried . 
Very well though I half feel as if I should like to have him with me ! . 
I've reached a more resigned frame of mind . 
Indeed ! I wish I had been able to do so . 
You should try , replied the widow , from the serene heights of a soul conscious not only of spiritual but of social superiority . 
I make no boast of my awakening , but I'm not what I was . 
After Cartlett's death I was passing the chapel in the street next ours , and went into it for shelter from a shower of rain . 
But I've left London now , you know , and at present I am living at Alfredston , with my friend Anny , to be near my own old country . 
I'm not come here to the fair to day . 
There's to be the foundation stone of a new chapel laid this afternoon by a popular London preacher , and I drove over with Anny . 
Now I must go back to meet her . 
Then Arabella wished Sue good bye , and went on . 
VIII IN the afternoon Sue and the other people bustling about Kennetbridge fair could hear singing inside the placarded hoarding farther down the street . 
Those who peeped through the opening saw a crowd of persons in broadcloth , with hymn books in their hands , standing round the excavations for the new chapel walls . 
Arabella Cartlett and her weeds stood among them . 
She had a clear , powerful voice , which could be distinctly heard with the rest , rising and falling to the tune , her inflated bosom being also seen doing likewise . 
Arabella was in a thoughtful mood but her thoughts were not of the new chapel , as Anny at first surmised . 
No it is something else , at last said Arabella sullenly . 
I came here to day never thinking of anybody but poor Cartlett , or of anything but spreading the Gospel by means of this new tabernacle they've begun this afternoon . 
But something has happened to turn my mind another way quite . 
Anny , I've heard of un again , and I've seen HER ! Who ? I've heard of Jude , and I've seen his wife . 
Can't ye fix your mind upon what was said by the London preacher to day , and try to get rid of your wandering fancies that way ? I do . 
What shall I do about it ? urged Arabella morbidly . 
You could take a lock of your late lost husband's hair , and have it made into a mourning brooch , and look at it every hour of the day . 
I haven't a morsel ! and if I had 'twould be no good . 
After all that's said about the comforts of this religion , I wish I had Jude back again ! You must fight valiant against the feeling , since he's another's . 
They came to the junction of the highway and the cross lane leading to that village , whose church tower could be seen athwart the hollow . 
He's more mine than hers ! she burst out . 
As she spoke she flung the whole remainder of the packet into the hedge I've tried that sort o' physic and have failed wi' it . 
We won't come out this road again , as it leads to where he is , because it inflames 'ee so . 
You'll be all right again soon . 
Arabella did calm herself down by degrees and they crossed the Ridge way . 
When they began to descend the long , straight hill , they saw plodding along in front of them an elderly man of spare stature and thoughtful gait . 
The remainder of the journey was down hill , and guessing him to be going to Alfredston they offered him a lift , which he accepted . 
Arabella looked at him , and looked again , till at length she spoke . 
If I don't mistake I am talking to Mr. Phillotson ? The wayfarer faced round and regarded her in turn . 
Yes my name is Phillotson , he said . 
But I don't recognize you , ma'am . 
I remember you well enough when you used to be schoolmaster out at Marygreen , and I one of your scholars . 
I used to walk up there from Cresscombe every day , because we had only a mistress down at our place , and you taught better . 
But you wouldn't remember me as I should you ? Arabella Donn . 
No , he said politely , I don't recall the name . 
And I should hardly recognize in your present portly self the slim school child no doubt you were then . 
Well , I always had plenty of flesh on my bones . 
However , I am staying down here with some friends at present . 
Dear me , dear me , said Phillotson , starting out of his stiffness . 
You Fawley's wife ? To be sure he had a wife ! And he I understood Divorced her as you did yours perhaps for better reasons . 
Indeed ? Well he med have been right in doing it right for both for I soon married again , and all went pretty straight till my husband died lately . 
But you you were decidedly wrong ! No , said Phillotson , with sudden testiness . 
I would rather not talk of this , but I am convinced I did only what was right , and just , and moral . 
I have recently come back here to Marygreen . 
You are keeping the school there again , just as formerly ? The pressure of a sadness that would out unsealed him . 
I am there , he replied . 
Just as formerly , no . 
It was a last resource a small thing to return to after my move upwards , and my long indulged hopes a returning to zero , with all its humiliations . 
But it is a refuge . 
A contented mind is a continual feast . 
She has done no better . 
She is not doing well , you mean ? I met her by accident at Kennetbridge this very day , and she is anything but thriving . 
Her husband is ill , and she anxious . 
You made a fool of a mistake about her , I tell 'ee again , and the harm you did yourself by dirting your own nest serves you right , excusing the liberty . 
How ? She was innocent . 
But nonsense ! They did not even defend the case ! That was because they didn't care to . 
She was quite innocent of what obtained you your freedom , at the time you obtained it . 
I saw her just afterwards , and proved it to myself completely by talking to her . 
Phillotson grasped the edge of the spring cart , and appeared to be much stressed and worried by the information . 
Still she wanted to go , he said . 
But you shouldn't have let her . 
That's the only way with these fanciful women that chaw high innocent or guilty . 
She'd have come round in time . 
We all do ! Custom does it ! It's all the same in the end ! However , I think she's fond of her man still whatever he med be of her . 
You were too quick about her . 
Besides , you've got the laws on your side . 
Don't you call to mind what he says ? Not for the moment , ma'am , I regret to say . 
Call yourself a schoolmaster ! I used to think o't when they read it in church , and I was carrying on a bit . 
'Then shall the man be guiltless but the woman shall bear her iniquity . 
Damn rough on us women but we must grin and put up wi' it ! Haw haw ! Well she's got her deserts now . 
Yes , said Phillotson , with biting sadness . 
Cruelty is the law pervading all nature and society and we can't get out of it if we would ! Well don't you forget to try it next time , old man . 
I cannot answer you , madam . 
I have never known much of womankind . 
They followed a lane to a distance of half a mile , till they met an old woman carrying a child in short clothes , and leading a toddler in the other hand . 
Sue kissed the children , and said , How is he now ? Still better ! returned Mrs. Edlin cheerfully . 
Before you are upstairs again your husband will be well enough don't 'ee trouble . 
They turned , and came to some old , dun tiled cottages with gardens and fruit trees . 
Into one of these they entered by lifting the latch without knocking , and were at once in the general living room . 
What you have sold them all ? he said , a gleam of interest lighting up his face . 
Arcades , gables , east windows and all . 
She told him the pecuniary results , and then hesitated . 
At last , when they were left alone , she informed him of the unexpected meeting with Arabella , and the latter's widowhood . 
What is she living here ? he said . 
No at Alfredston , said Sue . 
I thought I had better tell you ? she continued , kissing him anxiously . 
Dear me ! Arabella not in the depths of London , but down here ! It is only a little over a dozen miles across the country to Alfredston . 
What is she doing there ? She told him all she knew . 
She has taken to chapel going , Sue added and talks accordingly . 
Well , said Jude , perhaps it is for the best that we have almost decided to move on . 
I feel much better to day , and shall be well enough to leave in a week or two . 
Then Jude confessed what was in his mind . 
He said it would surprise her , perhaps , after his having resolutely avoided all the old places for so long . 
But one thing and another had made him think a great deal of Christminster lately , and , if she didn't mind , he would like to go back there . 
Why should they care if they were known ? It was oversensitive of them to mind so much . 
They could go on selling cakes there , for that matter , if he couldn't work . 
He had no sense of shame at mere poverty and perhaps he would be as strong as ever soon , and able to set up stone cutting for himself there . 
Why should you care so much for Christminster ? she said pensively . 
Christminster cares nothing for you , poor dear ! Well , I do , I can't help it . 
Nevertheless , it is the centre of the universe to me , because of my early dream and nothing can alter it . 
Perhaps it will soon wake up , and be generous . 
I should like to go back to live there perhaps to die there ! In two or three weeks I might , I think . 
It will then be June , and I should like to be there by a particular day . 
Part Sixth AT CHRISTMINSTER AGAIN . 
And she humbled her body greatly , and all the places of her joy she filled with her torn hair . 
There are two who decline , a woman and I , And enjoy our death in the darkness here . 
The place seems gay , said Sue . 
I thought we might as well come to day as on any other . 
But I am afraid it will depress you ! she said , looking anxiously at him up and down . 
Oh , I mustn't let it interfere with our business and we have a good deal to do before we shall be settled here . 
The first thing is lodgings . 
Having left their luggage and his tools at the station they proceeded on foot up the familiar street , the holiday people all drifting in the same direction . 
Oughtn't we to get a house over our heads first ? she asked . 
My failure is reflected on me by every one of those young fellows , said Jude . 
A lesson on presumption is awaiting me to day ! Humiliation Day for me ! . 
It would have been better if we had gone at once about our own affairs , dear , she answered . 
I am sure this sight will awaken old sorrows in you , and do no good ! Well we are near we will see it now , said he . 
To day , in the open space stretching between this building and the nearest college , stood a crowd of expectant people . 
A passage was kept clear through their midst by two barriers of timber , extending from the door of the college to the door of the large building between it and the theatre . 
Here is the place they are just going to pass ! cried Jude in sudden excitement . 
The sky had grown overcast and livid , and thunder rumbled now and then . 
It do seem like the Judgment Day ! he whispered . 
They are only learned doctors , said Sue . 
While they waited big drops of rain fell on their heads and shoulders , and the delay grew tedious . 
Sue again wished not to stay . 
They won't be long now , said Jude , without turning his head . 
, and to criticize some details of masonry in other college fronts about the city . 
Slums , d'ye mind ? because he aimed at that line o' business ? He's married , I suppose , then , and that's his child he's carrying . 
Taylor would know him , as he knows everybody . 
The speaker was a man named Jack Stagg , with whom Jude had formerly worked in repairing the college masonries Tinker Taylor was seen to be standing near . 
Except found more mouths to fill ! This came in a new voice , and Jude recognized its owner to be Uncle Joe , another mason whom he had known . 
But Fortune didn't lie that way ? threw in Joe . 
Yer powers wasn't enough to carry 'ee through ? Don't answer them any more ! entreated Sue . 
I don't think I like Christminster ! murmured little Time mournfully , as he stood submerged and invisible in the crowd . 
I tried to do the latter , and I failed . 
You may ridicule me I am quite willing that you should I am a fit subject , no doubt . 
But I think if you knew what I have gone through these last few years you would rather pity me . 
And if they knew he nodded towards the college at which the dons were severally arriving it is just possible they would do the same . 
He do look ill and worn out , it is true ! said a woman . 
Sue's face grew more emotional but though she stood close to Jude she was screened . 
I am in a chaos of principles groping in the dark acting by instinct and not after example . 
There , gentlemen , since you wanted to know how I was getting on , I have told you . 
Much good may it do you ! I cannot explain further here . 
Well preached ! said Tinker Taylor . 
The driver , alighting , began to kick the animal in the belly . 
Keep yer tongue quiet , my man , while the procession passes . 
The rain came on more heavily , and all who had umbrellas opened them . 
Jude was not one of these , and Sue only possessed a small one , half sunshade . 
She had grown pale , though Jude did not notice it then . 
Let us go on , dear , she whispered , endeavouring to shelter him . 
We haven't any lodgings yet , remember , and all our things are at the station and you are by no means well yet . 
I am afraid this wet will hurt you ! They are coming now . 
Just a moment , and I'll go ! said he . 
As they went their names were called by knowing informants , and when they reached the old round theatre of Wren a cheer rose high . 
Let's go that way ! cried Jude , and though it now rained steadily he seemed not to know it , and took them round to the theatre . 
I wish I could get in ! he said to her fervidly . 
Listen I may catch a few words of the Latin speech by staying here the windows are open . 
Well I'm an outsider to the end of my days ! he sighed after a while . 
Now I'll go , my patient Sue . 
Ah did you ! He is evidently come up to Jerusalem to see the festival like the rest of us and on that account is probably living not so very far away . 
He had the same hankering for the university that you had , in a milder form . 
I don't think he saw me , though he must have heard you speaking to the crowd . 
But he seemed not to notice . 
Your mind is free from worries about him now , my Sue ? Yes , I suppose so . 
Although I know it is all right with our plans , I felt a curious dread of him an awe , or terror , of conventions I don't believe in . 
It comes over me at times like a sort of creeping paralysis , and makes me so sad ! You are getting tired , Sue . 
Oh I forgot , darling ! Yes , we'll go on at once . 
Two or three of the houses had notices of rooms to let , and the newcomers knocked at the door of one , which a woman opened . 
Ah listen ! said Jude suddenly , instead of addressing her . 
What ? Why the bells what church can that be ? The tones are familiar . 
Another peal of bells had begun to sound out at some distance off . 
I don't know ! said the landlady tartly . 
Did you knock to ask that ? No for lodgings , said Jude , coming to himself . 
The householder scrutinized Sue's figure a moment . 
We haven't any to let , said she , shutting the door . 
Jude looked discomfited , and the boy distressed . 
Now , Jude , said Sue , let me try . 
You don't know the way . 
The small child squared its mouth and cried silently , with an instinct that trouble loomed . 
I don't like Christminster ! he said . 
Are the great old houses gaols ? No colleges , said Jude which perhaps you'll study in some day . 
I'd rather not ! the boy rejoined . 
Now we'll try again , said Sue . 
I'll pull my cloak more round me . 
Leaving Kennetbridge for this place is like coming from Caiaphas to Pilate ! . 
How do I look now , dear ? Nobody would notice it now , said Jude . 
There was one other house , and they tried a third time . 
The woman here was more amiable but she had little room to spare , and could only agree to take in Sue and the children if her husband could go elsewhere . 
This arrangement they perforce adopted , in the stress from delaying their search till so late . 
They came to terms with her , though her price was rather high for their pockets . 
Jude stayed and had a cup of tea and was pleased to find that the window commanded the back of another of the colleges . 
Kissing all four he went to get a few necessaries and look for lodgings for himself . 
When he was gone the landlady came up to talk a little with Sue , and gather something of the circumstances of the family she had taken in . 
Therefore , though in her own sense of the words she was a married woman , in the landlady's sense she was not . 
The housewife looked embarrassed , and went down stairs . 
Sue sat by the window in a reverie , watching the rain . 
Her quiet was broken by the noise of someone entering the house , and then the voices of a man and woman in conversation in the passage below . 
The land lady's husband had arrived , and she was explaining to him the incoming of the lodgers during his absence . 
His voice rose in sudden anger . 
Now who wants such a woman here ? and perhaps a confinement ! . 
Taking in a family when I said a single man . 
The wife expostulated , but , as it seemed , the husband insisted on his point for presently a tap came to Sue's door , and the woman appeared . 
I am sorry to tell you , ma'am , she said , that I can't let you have the room for the week after all . 
My husband objects and therefore I must ask you to go . 
I don't mind your staying over to night , as it is getting late in the afternoon but I shall be glad if you can leave early in the morning . 
When the landlady had gone Sue looked out of the window again . 
Every householder looked askance at such a woman and child inquiring for accommodation in the gloom . 
I ought not to be born , ought I ? said the boy with misgiving . 
Thoroughly tired at last Sue returned to the place where she was not welcome , but where at least she had temporary shelter . 
In her absence Jude had left his address but knowing how weak he still was she adhered to her determination not to disturb him till the next day . 
II SUE sat looking at the bare floor of the room , the house being little more than an old intramural cottage , and then she regarded the scene outside the uncurtained window . 
The outlines of Rubric College also were discernible beyond the other , and the tower of a third farther off still . 
Even now he did not distinctly hear the freezing negative that those scholared walls had echoed to his desire . 
The silence was broken by his saying Mother , WHAT shall we do to morrow ! I don't know ! said Sue despondently . 
I am afraid this will trouble your father . 
It would be better to be out o' the world than in it , wouldn't it ? It would almost , dear . 
'Tis because of us children , too , isn't it , that you can't get a good lodging ? Well people do object to children sometimes . 
Then if children make so much trouble , why do people have 'em ? Oh because it is a law of nature . 
But we don't ask to be born ? No indeed . 
And what makes it worse with me is that you are not my real mother , and you needn't have had me unless you liked . 
I oughtn't to have come to 'ee that's the real truth ! I troubled 'em in Australia , and I trouble folk here . 
I wish I hadn't been born ! You couldn't help it , my dear . 
She was doubtfully pondering how to treat this too reflective child . 
She at last concluded that , so far as circumstances permitted , she would be honest and candid with one who entered into her difficulties like an aged friend . 
There is going to be another in our family soon , she hesitatingly remarked . 
How ? There is going to be another baby . 
What ! The boy jumped up wildly . 
The boy burst out weeping . 
Oh you don't care , you don't care ! he cried in bitter reproach . 
'Tis done o' purpose ! 'tis 'tis ! He walked up and down sobbing . 
Y you must forgive me , little Jude ! she pleaded , her bosom heaving now as much as the boy's . 
I can't explain I will when you are older . 
There she heard him say If we children was gone there'd be no trouble at all ! Don't think that , dear , she cried , rather peremptorily . 
She arose softly , to avoid disturbing the children , who , as she knew , must be fatigued by their exertions of yesterday . 
She found Jude at breakfast in the obscure tavern he had chosen as a counterpoise to the expense of her lodging and she explained to him her homelessness . 
He had been so anxious about her all night , he said . 
Jude agreed with her that it would not be worth while to insist upon her right to stay a week , but to take immediate steps for removal . 
You must all come to this inn for a day or two , he said . 
It is a rough place , and it will not be so nice for the children , but we shall have more time to look round . 
There are plenty of lodgings in the suburbs in my old quarter of Beersheba . 
Have breakfast with me now you are here , my bird . 
You are sure you are well ? There will be plenty of time to get back and prepare the children's meal before they wake . 
In fact , I'll go with you . 
She joined Jude in a hasty meal , and in a quarter of an hour they started together , resolving to clear out from Sue's too respectable lodging immediately . 
Jude stood bending over the kettle , with his watch in his hand , timing the eggs , so that his back was turned to the little inner chamber where the children lay . 
A shriek from Sue suddenly caused him to start round . 
Hastening forward to pick her up he turned his eyes to the little bed spread on the boards no children were there . 
He looked in bewilderment round the room . 
An overturned chair was near the elder boy , and his glazed eyes were slanted into the room but those of the girl and the baby boy were closed . 
The nearest surgeon came in , but , as Jude had inferred , his presence was superfluous . 
The children were past saving , for though their bodies were still barely cold it was conjectured that they had been hanging more than an hour . 
Her inquiries were incessant , and at last Jude came down and told her there was no hope . 
As soon as she could speak she informed him what she had said to the boy , and how she thought herself the cause of this . 
It was in his nature to do it . 
The doctor says there are such boys springing up amongst us boys of a sort unknown in the last generation the outcome of new views of life . 
They seem to see all its terrors before they are old enough to have staying power to resist them . 
He says it is the beginning of the coming universal wish not to live . 
When everybody was gone , she was allowed to see the children . 
The boy's face expressed the whole tale of their situation . 
On that little shape had converged all the inauspiciousness and shadow which had darkened the first union of Jude , and all the accidents , mistakes , fears , errors of the last . 
He was their nodal point , their focus , their expression in a single term . 
For the rashness of those parents he had groaned , for their ill assortment he had quaked , and for the misfortunes of these he had died . 
What is it ? said Sue , her spasmodic breathing suspended . 
The organ of the college chapel . 
The organist practising I suppose . 
It's the anthem from the seventy third Psalm 'Truly God is loving unto Israel . 
They are talking about us , no doubt ! moaned Sue . 
'We are made a spectacle unto the world , and to angels , and to men ! Jude listened No they are not talking of us , he said . 
They are two clergymen of different views , arguing about the eastward position . 
Good God the eastward position , and all creation groaning ! Then another silence , till she was seized with another uncontrollable fit of grief . 
But it's true ! Thus they waited , and she went back again to her room . 
But whenever he touched them she implored him to let them lie , and burst out almost savagely at the woman of the house when she also attempted to put them away . 
Jude dreaded her dull apathetic silences almost more than her paroxysms . 
Why don't you speak to me , Jude ? she cried out , after one of these . 
Oh , my comrade , our perfect union our two in oneness is now stained with blood ! Shadowed by death that's all . 
I said the world was against us , that it was better to be out of life than in it at this price and he took it literally . 
And I told him I was going to have another child . 
Oh how bitterly he upbraided me ! Why did you do it , Sue ? I can't tell . 
It was that I wanted to be truthful . 
I couldn't bear deceiving him as to the facts of life . 
And yet I wasn't truthful , for with a false delicacy I told him too obscurely . 
He must have known sooner or later . 
And I was just making my baby darling a new frock and now I shall never see him in it , and never talk to him any more ! . 
I said it was Nature's intention , Nature's law and RAISON D'ETRE that we should be joyful in what instincts she afforded us instincts which civilization had taken upon itself to thwart . 
Yes I see it is ! Better that they should be plucked fresh than stay to wither away miserably ! Yes , replied Jude . 
Some say that the elders should rejoice when their children die in infancy . 
But they don't know ! . 
Oh my babies , my babies , could you be alive now ! You may say the boy wished to be out of life , or he wouldn't have done it . 
Nothing can be done , he replied . 
Things are as they are , and will be brought to their destined issue . 
Yes ! Who said that ? she asked heavily . 
It comes in the chorus of the AGAMEMNON . 
It has been in my mind continually since this happened . 
The jury duly came and viewed the bodies , the inquest was held and next arrived the melancholy morning of the funeral . 
Accounts in the newspapers had brought to the spot curious idlers , who stood apparently counting the window panes and the stones of the walls . 
Doubt of the real relations of the couple added zest to their curiosity . 
Feeling anxious , however , he went again about four o'clock . 
The woman thought she was still lying down , but returned to him to say that she was not in her bedroom after all . 
Her hat and jacket , too , were missing she had gone out . 
Jude hurried off to the public house where he was sleeping . 
She had not been there . 
Then bethinking himself of possibilities he went along the road to the cemetery , which he entered , and crossed to where the interments had recently taken place . 
The idlers who had followed to the spot by reason of the tragedy were all gone now . 
He's filling them in , and he shan't till I've seen my little ones again ! she cried wildly when she saw Jude . 
I want to see them once more . 
She ought to be took home , by the look o' her . 
She is hardly responsible , poor thing , seemingly . 
Can't dig 'em up again now , ma'am . 
Do ye go home with your husband , and take it quiet , and thank God that there'll be another soon to swage yer grief . 
Jude was thrown into such acute sorrow that he almost felt he would try to get the man to accede . 
But it could do no good , and might make her still worse and he saw that it was imperative to get her home at once . 
So he coaxed her , and whispered tenderly , and put his arm round her to support her till she helplessly gave in , and was induced to leave the cemetery . 
They were to have gone to a new lodging that afternoon , but Jude saw that it was not practicable , and in course of time they entered the now hated house . 
Sue was at once got to bed , and the doctor sent for . 
Jude waited all the evening downstairs . 
At a very late hour the intelligence was brought to him that a child had been prematurely born , and that it , like the others , was a corpse . 
III SUE was convalescent , though she had hoped for death , and Jude had again obtained work at his old trade . 
They were in other lodgings now , in the direction of Beersheba , and not far from the Church of Ceremonies Saint Silas . 
They would sit silent , more bodeful of the direct antagonism of things than of their insensate and stolid obstructiveness . 
But affliction makes opposing forces loom anthropomorphous and those ideas were now exchanged for a sense of Jude and herself fleeing from a persecutor . 
We must conform ! she said mournfully . 
All the ancient wrath of the Power above us has been vented upon us . 
His poor creatures , and we must submit . 
It is no use fighting against God ! It is only against man and senseless circumstance , said Jude . 
What have I been thinking of ! I am getting as superstitious as a savage ! . 
But whoever or whatever our foe may be , I am cowed into submission . 
I have no more fighting strength left no more enterprise . 
I am beaten , beaten ! . 
'We are made a spectacle unto the world , and to angels , and to men ! I am always saying that now . 
I feel the same ! What shall we do ? You are in work now but remember , it may only be because our history and relations are not absolutely known . 
Possibly , if they knew our marriage had not been formalized they would turn you out of your job as they did at Aldbrickham ! I hardly know . 
Perhaps they would hardly do that . 
However , I think that we ought to make it legal now as soon as you are able to go out . 
You think we ought ? Certainly . 
And Jude fell into thought . 
I have seemed to myself lately , he said , to belong to that vast band of men shunned by the virtuous the men called seducers . 
It amazes me when I think of it ! I have not been conscious of it , or of any wrongdoing towards you , whom I love more than myself . 
Yet I am one of those men ! I wonder if any other of them are the same purblind , simple creatures as I ? . 
Yes , Sue that's what I am . 
You were a distinct type a refined creature , intended by Nature to be left intact . 
But I couldn't leave you alone ! No , no , Jude ! she said quickly . 
Don't reproach yourself with being what you are not . 
If anybody is to blame it is I. I supported you in your resolve to leave Phillotson and without me perhaps you wouldn't have urged him to let you go . 
I should have , just the same . 
As to ourselves , the fact of our not having entered into a legal contract is the saving feature in our union . 
We have thereby avoided insulting , as it were , the solemnity of our first marriages . 
Solemnity ? Jude looked at her with some surprise , and grew conscious that she was not the Sue of their earlier time . 
Yes , she said , with a little quiver in her words , I have had dreadful fears , a dreadful sense of my own insolence of action . 
I have thought that I am still his wife ! Whose ? Richard's . 
Good God , dearest ! why ? Oh I can't explain ! Only the thought comes to me . 
It is your weakness a sick fancy , without reason or meaning ! Don't let it trouble you . 
As a set off against such discussions as these there had come an improvement in their pecuniary position , which earlier in their experience would have made them cheerful . 
There was this change in him that he did not often go to any service at the churches now . 
On a particular Sunday evening he came in rather late . 
She was not at home , but she soon returned , when he found her silent and meditative . 
What are you thinking of , little woman ? he asked curiously . 
But self abnegation is the higher road . 
We should mortify the flesh the terrible flesh the curse of Adam ! Sue ! he murmured . 
What has come over you ? We ought to be continually sacrificing ourselves on the altar of duty ! But I have always striven to do what has pleased me . 
Your natural instincts are perfectly healthy not quite so impassioned , perhaps , as I could wish but good , and dear , and pure . 
And as I have often said , you are absolutely the most ethereal , least sensual woman I ever knew to exist without inhuman sexlessness . 
Why do you talk in such a changed way ? We have not been selfish , except when no one could profit by our being otherwise . 
You used to say that human nature was noble and long suffering , not vile and corrupt , and at last I thought you spoke truly . 
I was too full of narrow dogmas at that time to see it . 
Don't say that , Jude ! I wish my every fearless word and thought could be rooted out of my history . 
Self renunciation that's everything ! I cannot humiliate myself too much . 
Why not ? It is indulgence . 
Still on the same tack ! But is there anything better on earth than that we should love one another ? Yes . 
It depends on the sort of love and yours ours is the wrong . 
I won't have it , Sue ! Come , when do you wish our marriage to be signed in a vestry ? She paused , and looked up uneasily . 
Not knowing the whole of her meaning he took the objection serenely , and said nothing . 
Several minutes elapsed , and he thought she had fallen asleep but he spoke softly , and found that she was wide awake all the time . 
She sat upright and sighed . 
There is a strange , indescribable perfume or atmosphere about you to night , Sue , he said . 
I mean not only mentally , but about your clothes , also . 
A sort of vegetable scent , which I seem to know , yet cannot remember . 
Incense ? I have been to the service at St . 
Silas' , and I was in the fumes of it . 
And I have taken to go in there , as it is so near . 
Oh well of course , I say nothing against it . 
Only it is odd , for you . 
They little think what sort of chiel is amang them ! What do you mean , Jude ? Well a sceptic , to be plain . 
How can you pain me so , dear Jude , in my trouble ! Yet I know you didn't mean it . 
But you ought not to say that . 
But I am much surprised ! Well I want to tell you something else , Jude . 
You won't be angry , will you ? I have thought of it a good deal since my babies died . 
I don't think I ought to be your wife or as your wife any longer . 
I should feel worse than I do now . 
Why so in the name of all that's perverse , my dear ? Because I am Richard's . 
My good heavens how we are changing places ! Yes . 
Before they could open it the comer did so , and a woman's form appeared . 
Is Mr. Fawley here ? Jude and Sue started as he mechanically replied in the affirmative , for the voice was Arabella's . 
Yet something seemed to denote that she was not quite so comfortably circumstanced , nor so bouncingly attired , as she had been during Cartlett's lifetime . 
The three attempted an awkward conversation about the tragedy , of which Jude had felt it to be his duty to inform her immediately , though she had never replied to his letter . 
I have just come from the cemetery , she said . 
I inquired and found the child's grave . 
I couldn't come to the funeral thank you for inviting me all the same . 
I read all about it in the papers , and I felt I wasn't wanted . 
No I couldn't come to the funeral , repeated Arabella , who , seeming utterly unable to reach the ideal of a catastrophic manner , fumbled with iterations . 
But I am glad I found the grave . 
As 'tis your trade , Jude , you'll be able to put up a handsome stone to 'em . 
I shall put up a headstone , said Jude drearily . 
He was my child , and naturally I feel for him . 
The others that weren't mine I didn't feel so much for , as was natural . 
A sigh came from the dark corner where Sue sat . 
I had often wished I had mine with me , continued Mrs. Cartlett . 
Perhaps 'twouldn't have happened then ! But of course I didn't wish to take him away from your wife . 
I am not his wife , came from Sue . 
The unexpectedness of her words struck Jude silent . 
Oh , I beg your pardon , I'm sure , said Arabella . 
She alluded to the past , and in making some remark appealed again to Sue . 
There was no answer Sue had invisibly left the room . 
She said she was not your wife ? resumed Arabella in another voice . 
Why should she do that ? I cannot inform you , said Jude shortly . 
She is , isn't she ? She once told me so . 
I don't criticize what she says . 
Ah I see ! Well , my time is up . 
I am staying here to night , and thought I could do no less than call , after our mutual affliction . 
I am sleeping at the place where I used to be barmaid , and to morrow I go back to Alfredston . 
Father is come home again , and I am living with him . 
He has returned from Australia ? said Jude with languid curiosity . 
Had a rough time of it . 
Mother died of dys what do you call it in the hot weather , and Father and two of the young ones have just got back . 
He has got a cottage near the old place , and for the present I am keeping house for him . 
When she had departed Jude , much relieved , went to the stairs and called Sue feeling anxious as to what had become of her . 
There was no answer , and the carpenter who kept the lodgings said she had not come in . 
Jude was puzzled , and became quite alarmed at her absence , for the hour was growing late . 
The carpenter called his wife , who conjectured that Sue might have gone to St . 
Silas' church , as she often went there . 
Surely not at this time o' night ? said Jude . 
She knows somebody who keeps the key , and she has it whenever she wants it . 
How long has she been going on with this ? Oh , some few weeks , I think . 
The spot was deserted , but the door was certainly unfastened he lifted the latch without noise , and pushing to the door behind him , stood absolutely still inside . 
The prevalent silence seemed to contain a faint sound , explicable as a breathing , or a sobbing , which came from the other end of the building . 
The floor cloth deadened his footsteps as he moved in that direction through the obscurity , which was broken only by the faintest reflected night light from without . 
High overhead , above the chancel steps , Jude could discern a huge , solidly constructed Latin cross as large , probably , as the original it was designed to commemorate . 
Underneath , upon the floor , lay what appeared to be a heap of black clothes , and from this was repeated the sobbing that he had heard before . 
It was his Sue's form , prostrate on the paving . 
Something white disclosed itself she had turned up her face . 
What do you want with me here , Jude ? she said almost sharply . 
You must take me as I am . 
I am a wretch broken by my distractions ! I couldn't BEAR it when Arabella came I felt so utterly miserable I had to come away . 
She seems to be your wife still , and Richard to be my husband ! But they are nothing to us ! Yes , dear friend , they are . 
I see marriage differently now . 
My babies have been taken from me to show me this ! Arabella's child killing mine was a judgement the right slaying the wrong . 
What , WHAT shall I do ! I am such a vile creature too worthless to mix with ordinary human beings ! This is terrible ! said Jude , verging on tears . 
Then come along home with me , dearest , and perhaps I shall . 
I am overburdened and you , too , are unhinged just now . 
He put his arm round her and lifted her but though she came , she preferred to walk without his support . 
I don't dislike you , Jude , she said in a sweet and imploring voice . 
I love you as much as ever ! Only I ought not to love you any more . 
Oh I must not any more ! I can't own it . 
But I have made up my mind that I am not your wife ! I belong to him I sacramentally joined myself to him for life . 
Nothing can alter it ! But surely we are man and wife , if ever two people were in this world ? Nature's own marriage it is , unquestionably ! But not Heaven's . 
Another was made for me there , and ratified eternally in the church at Melchester . 
What I can't understand in you is your extraordinary blindness now to your old logic . 
You say 'What are they regarding ? Nothing is there . 
I confess I am utterly stultified in my estimate of you . 
But oh , how to profit by it ! They walked along a few more steps till they were outside the building and she had returned the key . 
I can't bear it ! I was in error I cannot reason with you . 
I was wrong proud in my own conceit ! Arabella's coming was the finish . 
Don't satirize me it cuts like a knife ! He flung his arms round her and kissed her passionately there in the silent street , before she could hinder him . 
They went on till they came to a little coffee house . 
He went and conducted her in . 
She said she wanted no supper , and went in the dark upstairs and struck a light . 
Turning she found that Jude had followed her , and was standing at the chamber door . 
She went to him , put her hand in his , and said Good night . 
But Sue ! Don't we live here ? You said you would do as I wished ! Yes . 
Perhaps it was wrong of me to argue distastefully as I have done ! Perhaps as we couldn't conscientiously marry at first in the old fashioned way , we ought to have parted . 
I never deliberately meant to do as I did . 
I slipped into my false position through jealousy and agitation ! But surely through love you loved me ? Yes . 
An average woman is in this superior to an average man that she never instigates , only responds . 
We ought to have lived in mental communion , and no more . 
I was the unhappy cause of the change , as I have said before ! . 
Well , as you will ! . 
But human nature can't help being itself . 
Oh yes that's just what it has to learn self mastery . 
I repeat if either were to blame it was not you but I. No it was I. Your wickedness was only the natural man's desire to possess the woman . 
Mine was not the reciprocal wish till envy stimulated me to oust Arabella . 
I had thought I ought in charity to let you approach me that it was damnably selfish to torture you as I did my other friend . 
But I shouldn't have given way if you hadn't broken me down by making me fear you would go back to her . 
But don't let us say any more about it ! Jude , will you leave me to myself now ? Yes . 
But Sue my wife , as you are ! he burst out my old reproach to you was , after all , a true one . 
When I first knew you I merely wanted you to love me . 
And then I don't know how it was I couldn't bear to let you go possibly to Arabella again and so I got to love you , Jude . 
But you see , however fondly it ended , it began in the selfish and cruel wish to make your heart ache for me without letting mine ache for you . 
Do not do an immoral thing for moral reasons ! You have been my social salvation . 
Stay with me for humanity's sake ! You know what a weak fellow I am . 
My two arch enemies you know my weakness for womankind and my impulse to strong liquor . 
Oh , but you must not , Jude ! You won't ! I'll pray for you night and day ! Well never mind don't grieve , said Jude generously . 
I did suffer , God knows , about you at that time and now I suffer again . 
But perhaps not so much as you . 
The woman mostly gets the worst of it in the long run ! She does . 
Unless she is absolutely worthless and contemptible . 
And this one is not that , anyhow ! Sue drew a nervous breath or two . 
She is I fear ! . 
I am in your hands , Jude don't tempt me back now I have advanced so far ! Very well . 
I owe that to you , darling , in penance for how I overruled it at the first time . 
My God , how selfish I was ! Perhaps perhaps I spoilt one of the highest and purest loves that ever existed between man and woman ! . 
Sue looked at him , and bending over the bed rail wept silently . 
You don't see that it is a matter of conscience with me , and not of dislike to you ! she brokenly murmured . 
Oh but you shall kiss me ! said she , starting up . 
IV THE man whom Sue , in her mental VOLTE FACE , was now regarding as her inseparable husband , lived still at Marygreen . 
On the day before the tragedy of the children , Phillotson had seen both her and Jude as they stood in the rain at Christminster watching the procession to the theatre . 
What are you thinking of ? said Gillingham , as they went home . 
The university degree you never obtained ? No , no , said Phillotson gruffly . 
Of somebody I saw to day . 
In a moment he added , Susanna . 
I saw her , too . 
I didn't wish to draw your attention to her . 
But , as you did see her , you should have said 'How d'ye do , my dear that was ? Ah , well . 
But what do you think of this I have good reason for supposing that she was innocent when I divorced her that I was all wrong . 
Yes , indeed ! Awkward , isn't it ? She has taken care to set you right since , anyhow , apparently . 
I ought to have waited , unquestionably . 
The account of the strange suicide of a stone mason's children met his eye . 
However , there was no doubt that the newspaper report was in some way true . 
Their cup of sorrow is now full ! he said and thought and thought of Sue , and what she had gained by leaving him . 
Phillotson was on his way homeward when he encountered Arabella , and she was approaching the town . 
You like walking out this way , Mrs. Cartlett ? he said . 
I've just begun to again , she replied . 
It is where I lived as maid and wife , and all the past things of my life that are interesting to my feelings are mixed up with this road . 
And they have been stirred up in me too , lately for I've been visiting at Christminster . 
Ah ! How do they bear their terrible affliction ? In a ve ry strange way ve ry strange ! She don't live with him any longer . 
I only heard of it as a certainty just before I left though I had thought things were drifting that way from their manner when I called on them . 
Not live with her husband ? Why , I should have thought 'twould have united them more . 
He's not her husband , after all . 
She has never really married him although they have passed as man and wife so long . 
And she says , so I was told , that she's your wife in the eye of Heaven and the Church yours only and can't be anybody else's by any act of man . 
Separated , have they ! You see , the eldest boy was mine Oh yours ! Yes , poor little fellow born in lawful wedlock , thank God . 
And perhaps she feels , over and above other things , that I ought to have been in her place . 
However , as for me , I am soon off from here . 
I've got Father to look after now , and we can't live in such a hum drum place as this . 
I hope soon to be in a bar again at Christminster , or some other big town . 
When Phillotson had ascended the hill a few steps he stopped , hastened back , and called her . 
What is , or was , their address ? Arabella gave it . 
Meanwhile Phillotson ascended to Marygreen , and for the first time during a lengthened period he lived with a forward eye . 
No man had ever suffered more inconvenience from his own charity , Christian or heathen , than Phillotson had done in letting Sue go . 
He had often thought of Arabella's remarks that he should have been more severe with Sue , that her recalcitrant spirit would soon have been broken . 
Principles which could be subverted by feeling in one direction were liable to the same catastrophe in another . 
The instincts which had allowed him to give Sue her liberty now enabled him to regard her as none the worse for her life with Jude . 
But artifice was necessary , he had found , for stemming the cold and inhumane blast of the world's contempt . 
And here were the materials ready made . 
He thought he would write to Gillingham to inquire his views , and what he thought of his , Phillotson's , sending a letter to her . 
But they won't Sue won't ! exclaimed Phillotson to himself . 
Gillingham is so matter of fact . 
She's affected by Christminster sentiment and teaching . 
I can see her views on the indissolubility of marriage well enough , and I know where she got them . 
They are not mine but I shall make use of them to further mine . 
He wrote a brief reply to Gillingham . 
I know I am entirely wrong , but I don't agree with you . 
that it has done little more than finish her education . 
I shall write to her , and learn whether what that woman said is true or no . 
As he had made up his mind to do this before he had written to his friend , there had not been much reason for writing to the latter at all . 
However , it was Phillotson's way to act thus . 
He would not conceal from her that passionate love had little to do with his communication . 
To indulge one's instinctive and uncontrolled sense of justice and right , was not , he had found , permitted with impunity in an old civilization like ours . 
He suggested that she should come to him there at Marygreen . 
On second thoughts he took out the last paragraph but one and having rewritten the letter he dispatched it immediately , and in some excitement awaited the issue . 
A timid knock sounded upon the door of his abode . 
It was evening so he was at home and by a species of divination he jumped up and rushed to the door himself . 
Will you come out with me ? I would rather not come in . 
I want to to talk with you and to go with you to the cemetery . 
It had been in the trembling accents of Sue that these words came . 
Jude put on his hat . 
It is dreary for you to be out , he said . 
But if you prefer not to come in , I don't mind . 
I shall not keep you long . 
I want to tell you , she presently said , her voice now quick , now slow , so that you may not hear of it by chance . 
I am going back to Richard . 
He has so magnanimously agreed to forgive all . 
Going back ? How can you go He is going to marry me again . 
That is for form's sake , and to satisfy the world , which does not see things as they are . 
But of course I AM his wife already . 
He turned upon her with an anguish that was well nigh fierce . 
But you are my wife ! Yes , you are . 
I have always regretted that feint of ours in going away and pretending to come back legally married , to save appearances . 
I loved you , and you loved me and we closed with each other and that made the marriage . 
We still love you as well as I KNOW it , Sue ! Therefore our marriage is not cancelled . 
Yes I know how you see it , she answered with despairing self suppression . 
But I am going to marry him again , as it would be called by you . 
Strictly speaking you , too don't mind my saying it , Jude ! you should take back Arabella . 
And I would go back to Richard without repeating the sacrament , if he asked me . 
But 'the world and its ways have a certain worth' therefore I concede a repetition of the ceremony . 
Don't crush all the life out of me by satire and argument , I implore you ! I was strongest once , I know , and perhaps I treated you cruelly . 
But Jude , return good for evil ! I am the weaker now . 
Don't retaliate upon me , but be kind . 
Oh be kind to me a poor wicked woman who is trying to mend ! He shook his head hopelessly , his eyes wet . 
The blow of her bereavement seemed to have destroyed her reasoning faculty . 
The once keen vision was dimmed . 
All wrong , all wrong ! he said huskily . 
Error perversity ! It drives me out of my senses . 
Jude argued , urged , implored but her conviction was proof against all . 
It seemed to be the one thing on earth on which she was firm , and that her firmness in this had left her tottering in every other impulse and wish she possessed . 
I have even owned the extreme fact that I do not love him . 
I did not think you would be so rough with me for doing so ! I was going to ask you . 
To give you away ? No. To send my boxes to me if you would . 
But I suppose you won't . 
Why , of course I will . 
What isn't he coming to fetch you to marry you from here ? He won't condescend to do that ? No I won't let him . 
I go to him voluntarily , just as I went away from him . 
We are to be married at his little church at Marygreen . 
She was so sadly sweet in what he called her wrong headedness that Jude could not help being moved to tears more than once for pity of her . 
Jude , I must say good bye ! But I wanted you to go to the cemetery with me . 
Let our farewell be there beside the graves of those who died to bring home to me the error of my views . 
They turned in the direction of the place , and the gate was opened to them on application . 
Sue had been there often , and she knew the way to the spot in the dark . 
They reached it , and stood still . 
It is here I should like to part , said she . 
So be it ! Don't think me hard because I have acted on conviction . 
Your generous devotion to me is unparalleled , Jude ! Your worldly failure , if you have failed , is to your credit rather than to your blame . 
Remember that the best and greatest among mankind are those who do themselves no worldly good . 
Every successful man is more or less a selfish man . 
'Charity seeketh not her own . 
In that chapter we are at one , ever beloved darling , and on it we'll part friends . 
Its verses will stand fast when all the rest that you call religion has passed away ! Well don't discuss it . 
Good bye , Jude my fellow sinner , and kindest friend ! Good bye , my mistaken wife . 
Good bye ! V THE next afternoon the familiar Christminster fog still hung over all things . 
Sue's slim shape was only just discernible going towards the station . 
Jude had no heart to go to his work that day . 
Neither could he go anywhere in the direction by which she would be likely to pass . 
He went in an opposite one , to a dreary , strange , flat scene , where boughs dripped , and coughs and consumption lurked , and where he had never been before . 
Sue's gone from me gone ! he murmured miserably . 
She in the meantime had left by the train , and reached Alfredston Road , where she entered the steam tram and was conveyed into the town . 
It had been her request to Phillotson that he should not meet her . 
She wished , she said , to come to him voluntarily , to his very house and hearthstone . 
It was Friday evening , which had been chosen because the schoolmaster was disengaged at four o'clock that day till the Monday morning following . 
On its return she encountered it , and asked the driver if he had found the master's house open . 
The man informed her that he had , and that her things had been taken in by the schoolmaster himself . 
She could now enter Marygreen without exciting much observation . 
She crossed by the well and under the trees to the pretty new school on the other side , and lifted the latch of the dwelling without knocking . 
Phillotson stood in the middle of the room , awaiting her , as requested . 
I've come , Richard , said she , looking pale and shaken , and sinking into a chair . 
I cannot believe you forgive your wife ! Everything , darling Susanna , said Phillotson . 
She started at the endearment , though it had been spoken advisedly without fervour . 
Then she nerved herself again . 
My children are dead and it is right that they should be ! I am glad almost . 
They were sacrificed to teach me how to live ! Their death was the first stage of my purification . 
That's why they have not died in vain ! . 
You will take me back ? He was so stirred by her pitiful words and tone that he did more than he had meant to do . 
He bent and kissed her cheek . 
Sue imperceptibly shrank away , her flesh quivering under the touch of his lips . 
Phillotson's heart sank , for desire was renascent in him . 
When are we going to have the marriage ? Soon ? To morrow morning , early , I thought if you really wish . 
I am sending round to the vicar to let him know you are come . 
I have told him all , and he highly approves he says it will bring our lives to a triumphant and satisfactory issue . 
I'll tell the vicar half past eight to morrow , before anybody is about if that's not too soon for you ? My friend Gillingham is here to help us in the ceremony . 
He's been good enough to come all the way from Shaston at great inconvenience to himself . 
Unlike a woman in ordinary , whose eye is so keen for material things , Sue seemed to see nothing of the room they were in , or any detail of her environment . 
But on moving across the parlour to put down her muff she uttered a little Oh ! and grew paler than before . 
Her look was that of the condemned criminal who catches sight of his coffin . 
The flap of the bureau chanced to be open , and in placing her muff upon it her eye had caught a document which lay there . 
Oh only a funny surprise ! she said , trying to laugh away her cry as she came back to the table . 
Ah ! Yes , said Phillotson . 
She obediently ate some supper , and prepared to leave for her lodging hard by . 
Phillotson crossed the green with her , bidding her good night at Mrs. Edlin's door . 
The old woman accompanied Sue to her temporary quarters , and helped her to unpack . 
Among other things she laid out a night gown tastefully embroidered . 
Oh I didn't know THAT was put in ! said Sue quickly . 
I didn't mean it to be . 
Here is a different one . 
She handed a new and absolutely plain garment , of coarse and unbleached calico . 
But this is the prettiest , said Mrs. Edlin . 
That one is no better than very sackcloth o' Scripture ! Yes I meant it to be . 
She took it , and began rending it with all her might , the tears resounding through the house like a screech owl . 
But my dear , dear ! whatever . 
It is adulterous ! It signifies what I don't feel I bought it long ago to please Jude . 
It must be destroyed ! Mrs. Edlin lifted her hands , and Sue excitedly continued to tear the linen into strips , laying the pieces in the fire . 
You med ha' give it to me ! said the widow . 
It is only fit for the fire . 
Oh , don't , don't ! That kills me ! She remained shaken with her grief , and slipped down upon her knees . 
I'll tell 'ee what you ought not to marry this man again ! said Mrs. Edlin indignantly . 
You are in love wi' t' other still ! Yes I must I am his already ! Pshoo ! You be t' other man's . 
After all , it concerned nobody but your own two selves . 
Richard says he'll have me back , and I'm bound to go ! If he had refused , it might not have been so much my duty to give up Jude . 
But She remained with her face in the bed clothes , and Mrs. Edlin left the room . 
Phillotson in the interval had gone back to his friend Gillingham , who still sat over the supper table . 
They soon rose , and walked out on the green to smoke awhile . 
A light was burning in Sue's room , a shadow moving now and then across the blind . 
Gillingham had evidently been impressed with the indefinable charm of Sue , and after a silence he said , Well you've all but got her again at last . 
She can't very well go a second time . 
The pear has dropped into your hand . 
I suppose I am right in taking her at her word . 
I confess there seems a touch of selfishness in it . 
So I may get back in some degree into my old track . 
You might have been a school inspector by this time , or a reverend , if you hadn't been so weak about her . 
I did myself irreparable damage I know it . 
Once you've got her housed again , stick to her . 
Phillotson was more evasive to night . 
He said , Yes I shall do that . 
I know woman better now . 
Whatever justice there was in releasing her , there was little logic , for one holding my views on other subjects . 
I perceive it won't do to give way to impulse , Phillotson resumed , feeling more and more every minute the necessity of acting up to his position . 
I flew in the face of the Church's teaching but I did it without malice prepense . 
Women are so strange in their influence that they tempt you to misplaced kindness . 
However , I know myself better now . 
A little judicious severity , perhaps . 
Yes but you must tighten the reins by degrees only . 
Don't be too strenuous at first . 
She'll come to any terms in time . 
The caution was unnecessary , though Phillotson did not say so . 
I remember what my vicar at Shaston said , when I left after the row that was made about my agreeing to her elopement . 
But I was so headstrong at that time that I paid no heed . 
And that after the divorce she should have thought of doing so I did not dream . 
The gate of Mrs. Edlin's cottage clicked , and somebody began crossing in the direction of the school . 
Oh , is that Mr. Phillotson , said Mrs. Edlin . 
I was going over to see 'ee . 
I've been upstairs with her , helping her to unpack her things and upon my word , sir , I don't think this ought to be ! What the wedding ? Yes . 
She's forcing herself to it , poor dear little thing and you've no notion what she's suffering . 
I was never much for religion nor against it , but it can't be right to let her do this , and you ought to persuade her out of it . 
Of course everybody will say it was very good and forgiving of 'ee to take her to 'ee again . 
But for my part I don't . 
It's her wish , and I am willing , said Phillotson with grave reserve , opposition making him illogically tenacious now . 
A great piece of laxity will be rectified . 
She's his wife if anybody's . 
The one man who'd be her friend the obstinate creature won't allow to come near her . 
What first put her into this mood o' mind , I wonder ! I can't tell . 
It is all voluntary on her part . 
Now that's all I have to say . 
You've turned round , Mrs. Edlin . 
It is unseemly of you ! Well . 
I knowed you'd be affronted at what I had to say but I don't mind that . 
I'm not affronted , Mrs. Edlin . 
You've been too kind a neighbour for that . 
But I must be allowed to know what's best for myself and Susanna . 
I suppose you won't go to church with us , then ? No. Be hanged if I can . 
I don't know what the times be coming to ! Matrimony have growed to be that serious in these days that one really do feel afeard to move in it at all . 
I don't know whether I ought to do it at any rate quite so rapidly . 
Why ? If she is really compelling herself to this against her instincts merely from this new sense of duty or religion I ought perhaps to let her wait a bit . 
Now you've got so far you ought not to back out of it . 
I can't very well put it off now that's true . 
But I had a qualm when she gave that little cry at sight of the licence . 
Now , never you have qualms , old boy . 
I mean to give her away to morrow morning , and you mean to take her . 
Phillotson nodded , and seeing how staunch his friend was , became more frank . 
No doubt when it gets known what I've done I shall be thought a soft fool by many . 
But they don't know Sue as I do . 
Though so elusive , hers is such an honest nature at bottom that I don't think she has ever done anything against her conscience . 
The fact of her having lived with Fawley goes for nothing . 
At the time she left me for him she thought she was quite within her right . 
Phillotson went across to the Widow Edlin's to fetch Sue a few minutes after eight o'clock . 
The bride was waiting , ready bonnet and all on . 
She had never in her life looked so much like the lily her name connoted as she did in that pallid morning light . 
Prompt , said the schoolmaster , magnanimously taking her hand . 
But he checked his impulse to kiss her , remembering her start of yesterday , which unpleasantly lingered in his mind . 
Gillingham joined them , and they left the house , Widow Edlin continuing steadfast in her refusal to assist in the ceremony . 
Where is the church ? said Sue . 
She had not lived there for any length of time since the old church was pulled down , and in her preoccupation forgot the new one . 
Up here , said Phillotson and presently the tower loomed large and solemn in the fog . 
The vicar had already crossed to the building , and when they entered he said pleasantly We almost want candles . 
You do wish me to be yours , Richard ? gasped Sue in a whisper . 
Certainly , dear above all things in the world . 
Sue said no more and for the second or third time he felt he was not quite following out the humane instinct which had induced him to let her go . 
There they stood , five altogether the parson , the clerk , the couple , and Gillingham and the holy ordinance was resolemnized forthwith . 
When the books were signed the vicar congratulated the husband and wife on having performed a noble , and righteous , and mutually forgiving act . 
All's well that ends well , he said smiling . 
May you long be happy together , after thus having been 'saved as by fire . 
They came down the nearly empty building , and crossed to the schoolhouse . 
Gillingham wanted to get home that night , and left early . 
He , too , congratulated the couple . 
When the schoolmaster got back Sue was making a pretence of doing some housewifery as if she lived there . 
But she seemed timid at his approach , and compunction wrought on him at sight of it . 
Of course , my dear , I shan't expect to intrude upon your personal privacy any more than I did before , he said gravely . 
It is for our good socially to do this , and that's its justification , if it was not my reason . 
VI THE place was the door of Jude's lodging in the out skirts of Christminster far from the precincts of St . 
Silas' where he had formerly lived , which saddened him to sickness . 
The rain was coming down . 
A woman in shabby black stood on the doorstep talking to Jude , who held the door in his hand . 
I am at the mercy of the world ! If you can't take me and help me , Jude , I must go to the workhouse , or to something worse . 
Only just now two undergraduates winked at me as I came along . 
I am sorry for you , but I am only in lodgings , said Jude coldly . 
Then you turn me away ? I'll give you enough to get food and lodging for a few days . 
Oh , but can't you have the kindness to take me in ? I cannot endure going to a public house to lodge and I am so lonely . 
Please , Jude , for old times' sake ! No , no , said Jude hastily . 
I don't want to be reminded of those things and if you talk about them I shall not help you . 
Then I suppose I must go ! said Arabella . 
She bent her head against the doorpost and began sobbing . 
The house is full , said Jude . 
A bit of a bed could be made on the floor . 
It would be good enough for me . 
You may remember me as barmaid at the Lamb and Flag formerly ? spoke up Arabella . 
My father has insulted me this afternoon , and I've left him , though without a penny ! The householder said he could not recall her features . 
But still , if you are a friend of Mr. Fawley's we'll do what we can for a day or two if he'll make himself answerable ? Yes , yes , said Jude . 
She has really taken me quite unawares but I should wish to help her out of her difficulty . 
While they were waiting for this to be done Arabella said You know the news , I suppose ? I guess what you mean but I know nothing . 
I had a letter from Anny at Alfredston to day . 
She had just heard that the wedding was to be yesterday but she didn't know if it had come off . 
I don't wish to talk of it . 
No , no of course you don't . 
All his well wishers will be pleased , including the bishop himself . 
Do spare me , Arabella . 
Arabella was duly installed in the little attic , and at first she did not come near Jude at all . 
When Jude suggested London as affording the most likely opening in the liquor trade , she shook her head . 
No the temptations are too many , she said . 
Any humble tavern in the country before that for me . 
Yes , if you like , he said indifferently . 
While they sat without speaking she suddenly observed You seem all in a brood , old man . 
I am all in a brood . 
It is about her , I know . 
It's no business of mine , but I could find out all about the wedding if it really did take place if you wanted to know . 
How could you ? I wanted to go to Alfredston to get a few things I left there . 
And I could see Anny , who'll be sure to have heard all about it , as she has friends at Marygreen . 
Jude could not bear to acquiesce in this proposal but his suspense pitted itself against his discretion , and won in the struggle . 
You can ask about it if you like , he said . 
I've not heard a sound from there . 
It must have been very private , if they have married . 
I am afraid I haven't enough cash to take me there and back , or I should have gone before . 
I must wait till I have earned some . 
Oh I can pay the journey for you , he said impatiently . 
And thus his suspense as to Sue's welfare , and the possible marriage , moved him to dispatch for intelligence the last emissary he would have thought of choosing deliberately . 
Arabella went , Jude requesting her to be home not later than by the seven o'clock train . 
Arabella had made dimples most successfully all the way home , and when she stepped out of the railway carriage she smiled . 
He merely said Well ? with the very reverse of a smile . 
Yes of course they are ! he returned . 
She observed , however , the hard strain upon his lip as he spoke . 
She wanted to in one sense , but not in the other . 
Mrs. Edlin was much upset by it all , and spoke out her mind at Phillotson . 
But Sue was that excited about it that she burnt her best embroidery that she'd worn with you , to blot you out entirely . 
Well if a woman feels like it , she ought to do it . 
I commend her for it , though others don't . 
She felt he was her only husband , and that she belonged to nobody else in the sight of God A'mighty while he lived . 
Perhaps another woman feels the same about herself , too ! Arabella sighed again . 
I don't want any cant ! exclaimed Jude . 
It isn't cant , said Arabella . 
I feel exactly the same as she ! He closed that issue by remarking abruptly Well now I know all I wanted to know . 
Many thanks for your information . 
I am not going back to my lodgings just yet . 
And he left her straightway . 
But having all the vices of his virtues , and some to spare , he turned into a public house , for the first time during many months . 
Among the possible consequences of her marriage Sue had not dwelt on this . 
Arabella , meanwhile , had gone back . 
The evening passed , and Jude did not return . 
At half past nine Arabella herself went out , first proceeding to an outlying district near the river where her father lived , and had opened a small and precarious pork shop lately . 
Well , she said to him , for all your rowing me that night , I've called in , for I have something to tell you . 
I think I shall get married and settled again . 
Only you must help me and you can do no less , after what I've stood 'ee . 
I'll do anything to get thee off my hands ! Very well . 
I am now going to look for my young man . 
He's on the loose I'm afraid , and I must get him home . 
All I want you to do to night is not to fasten the door , in case I should want to sleep here , and should be late . 
I thought you'd soon get tired of giving yourself airs and keeping away ! Well don't do the door . 
She then sallied out again , and first hastening back to Jude's to make sure that he had not returned , began her search for him . 
A shrewd guess as to his probable course took her straight to the tavern which Jude had formerly frequented , and where she had been barmaid for a brief term . 
He was drinking nothing stronger than ale just then . 
He did not observe her , and she entered and sat beside him . 
Jude looked up , and said without surprise You've come to have something , Arabella ? . 
I'm trying to forget her that's all ! But I can't and I am going home . 
She saw that he was a little way on in liquor , but only a little as yet . 
I've come entirely to look for you , dear boy . 
Now you must have something better than that . 
Arabella held up her finger to the barmaid . 
You shall have a liqueur that's better fit for a man of education than beer . 
You shall have maraschino , or curacao dry or sweet , or cherry brandy . 
I'll treat you , poor chap ! I don't care which ! Say cherry brandy . 
Sue has served me badly , very badly . 
I didn't expect it of Sue ! I stuck to her , and she ought to have stuck to me . 
I'd have sold my soul for her sake , but she wouldn't risk hers a jot for me . 
To save her own soul she lets mine go damn ! . 
When they were in the streets she said I don't know what our landlord will say to my bringing you home in this state . 
I expect we are fastened out , so that he'll have to come down and let us in . 
I don't know I don't know . 
That's the worst of not having a home of your own . 
I tell you , Jude , what we had best do . 
Come round to my father's I made it up with him a bit to day . 
I can let you in , and nobody will see you at all and by to morrow morning you'll be all right . 
Anything anywhere , replied Jude . 
This is th' Martyrs' burning place , he stammered as they dragged across a broad street . 
Often think of it as I pass here . 
Very thoughtful of you , deary , even though it hasn't much to do with our present business . 
And yet she did it for conscience' sake , poor little Sue ! Hang her ! I mean , I think she was right , hiccuped Arabella . 
The circumstances were not altogether unlike those of their entry into the cottage at Cresscombe , such a long time before . 
Nor were perhaps Arabella's motives . 
But Jude did not think of that , though she did . 
I can't find the matches , dear , she said when she had fastened up the door . 
But never mind this way . 
As quiet as you can , please . 
It is as dark as pitch , said Jude . 
Give me your hand , and I'll lead you . 
Just sit down here , and I'll pull off your boots . 
I don't want to wake him . 
He'd make a row , perhaps . 
She pulled off his boots . 
Now , she whispered , take hold of me never mind your weight . 
Now first stair , second stair But , are we out in our old house by Marygreen ? asked the stupefied Jude . 
Now third stair , fourth stair that's it . 
Now we shall get on . 
VII ARABELLA was preparing breakfast in the downstairs back room of this small , recently hired tenement of her father's . 
She put her head into the little pork shop in front , and told Mr. Donn it was ready . 
Donn , endeavouring to look like a master pork butcher , in a greasy blue blouse , and with a strap round his waist from which a steel dangled , came in promptly . 
You must mind the shop this morning , he said casually . 
I've to go and get some inwards and half a pig from Lumsdon , and to call elsewhere . 
If you live here you must put your shoulder to the wheel , at least till I get the business started ! Well , for to day I can't say . 
She looked deedily into his face . 
I've got a prize upstairs . 
Oh ? What's that ? A husband almost . 
He's come back to me . 
Your old original one ? Well , I'm damned ! Well , I always did like him , that I will say . 
But how does he come to be up there ? said Donn , humour struck , and nodding to the ceiling . 
Don't ask inconvenient questions , Father . 
What we've to do is to keep him here till he and I are as we were . 
How was that ? Married . 
Well it is the rummest thing I ever heard of marrying an old husband again , and so much new blood in the world ! He's no catch , to my thinking . 
I'd have had a new one while I was about it . 
Be civil to him , and I'll do the rest , she said when she had recovered seriousness . 
He told me this morning that his head ached fit to burst , and he hardly seemed to know where he was . 
And no wonder , considering how he mixed his drink last night . 
We must keep him jolly and cheerful here for a day or two , and not let him go back to his lodging . 
Whatever you advance I'll pay back to you again . 
But I must go up and see how he is now , poor deary . 
Arabella ascended the stairs , softly opened the door of the first bedroom , and peeped in . 
Finding that her shorn Samson was asleep she entered to the bedside and stood regarding him . 
Her ardent gaze seemed to affect him his quick breathing became suspended , and he opened his eyes . 
How are you now , dear ? said she . 
Ah ! where oh yes , I remember ! You gave me shelter . 
I am stranded ill demoralized damn bad ! That's what I am ! Then do stay here . 
There's nobody in the house but father and me , and you can rest till you are thoroughly well . 
I'll tell them at the stoneworks that you are knocked up . 
I wonder what they are thinking at the lodgings ! I'll go round and explain . 
Perhaps you had better let me pay up , or they'll think we've run away ? Yes . 
You'll find enough money in my pocket there . 
Quite indifferent , and shutting his eyes because he could not bear the daylight in his throbbing eye balls , Jude seemed to doze again . 
Arabella took his purse , softly left the room , and putting on her outdoor things went off to the lodgings she and he had quitted the evening before . 
Now , said Arabella to her father downstairs , we must keep plenty of good liquor going in the house these next few days . 
He must be kept cheerful . 
He has a little money in the savings bank , and he has given me his purse to pay for anything necessary . 
Well , that will be the licence for I must have that ready at hand , to catch him the moment he's in the humour . 
You must pay for the liquor . 
A few friends , and a quiet convivial party would be the thing , if we could get it up . 
It would advertise the shop , and help me too . 
That can be got up easy enough by anybody who'll afford victuals and drink . 
Well yes it would advertise the shop that's true . 
He also suggested Freckles and Bower o' Bliss . 
Arabella took him at his word so far as the men went , but drew the line at the ladies . 
There were none in , but he was promised some the next morning . 
While making his inquiry Taylor glanced into the back room , and saw the guests sitting round , card playing , and drinking , and otherwise enjoying themselves at Donn's expense . 
He went home to bed , and on his way out next morning wondered how the party went off . 
However , he found in passing that the door was open , and he could hear voices within , though the shutters of the meat stall were not down . 
He went and tapped at the sitting room door , and opened it . 
Well to be sure ! he said , astonished . 
Yes ! cried Arabella , laughing . 
Here we are , just the same . 
We ought to be ashamed of ourselves , oughtn't we ! But it is a sort of housewarming , you see and our friends are in no hurry . 
Come in , Mr. Taylor , and sit down . 
The tinker , or rather reduced ironmonger , was nothing loath , and entered and took a seat . 
I shall lose a quarter , but never mind , he said . 
Well , really , I could hardly believe my eyes when I looked in ! It seemed as if I was flung back again into last night , all of a sudden . 
Pour out for Mr. Taylor . 
He now perceived that she was sitting beside Jude , her arm being round his waist . 
Jude , like the rest of the company , bore on his face the signs of how deeply he had been indulging . 
Jude and I have decided to make up matters between us by tying the knot again , as we find we can't do without one another after all . 
So , as a bright notion , we agreed to sit on till it was late enough , and go and do it off hand . 
Jude seemed to pay no great heed to what she was announcing , or indeed to anything whatever . 
The entrance of Taylor infused fresh spirit into the company , and they remained sitting , till Arabella whispered to her father Now we may as well go . 
Oh very well I'm ready , said her father , getting up and shaking himself . 
Now , old darling , she said to Jude . 
Come along , as you promised . 
Why ! said Arabella , affecting dismay . 
You've promised to marry me several times as we've sat here to night . 
These gentlemen have heard you . 
I don't remember it , said Jude doggedly . 
There's only one woman but I won't mention her in this Capharnaum ! Arabella looked towards her father . 
Now , Mr. Fawley be honourable , said Donn . 
You and my daughter have been living here together these three or four days , quite on the understanding that you were going to marry her . 
Of course I shouldn't have had such goings on in my house if I hadn't understood that . 
As a point of honour you must do it now . 
Don't say anything against my honour ! enjoined Jude hotly , standing up . 
I'd marry the W of Babylon rather than do anything dishonourable ! No reflection on you , my dear . 
It is a mere rhetorical figure what they call in the books , hyperbole . 
Keep your figures for your debts to friends who shelter you , said Donn . 
Come up and wash your face , and just put yourself tidy , and off we'll go . 
Make it up with Father . 
Jude went upstairs with her , and soon came down looking tidy and calm . 
Arabella , too , had hastily arranged herself , and accompanied by Donn away they went . 
Don't go , she said to the guests at parting . 
I've told the little maid to get the breakfast while we are gone and when we come back we'll all have some . 
A good strong cup of tea will set everybody right for going home . 
When Arabella , Jude , and Donn had disappeared on their matrimonial errand the assembled guests yawned themselves wider awake , and discussed the situation with great interest . 
Tinker Taylor , being the most sober , reasoned the most lucidly . 
I don't wish to speak against friends , he said . 
Do you think he'll do it ? He's been put upon his honour by the woman , so he med . 
He'd hardly do it straight off like this . 
He's got no licence nor anything . 
She's got that , bless you . 
Didn't you hear her say so to her father ? Well , said Tinker Taylor , relighting his pipe at the gas jet . 
Take her all together , limb by limb , she's not such a bad looking piece particular by candlelight . 
To be sure , halfpence that have been in circulation can't be expected to look like new ones from the mint . 
But for a woman that's been knocking about the four hemispheres for some time , she's passable enough . 
A little bit thick in the flitch perhaps but I like a woman that a puff o' wind won't blow down . 
Their eyes followed the movements of the little girl as she spread the breakfast cloth on the table they had been using , without wiping up the slops of the liquor . 
The curtains were undrawn , and the expression of the house made to look like morning . 
Some of the guests , however , fell asleep in their chairs . 
One or two went to the door , and gazed along the street more than once . 
Tinker Taylor was the chief of these , and after a time he came in with a leer on his face . 
By Gad , they are coming ! I think the deed's done ! No , said Uncle Joe , following him in . 
Take my word , he turned rusty at the last minute . 
They are walking in a very unusual way and that's the meaning of it ! They waited in silence till the wedding party could be heard entering the house . 
First into the room came Arabella boisterously and her face was enough to show that her strategy had succeeded . 
Mrs. Fawley , I presume ? said Tinker Taylor with mock courtesy . 
Mrs. Fawley again , replied Arabella blandly , pulling off her glove and holding out her left hand . 
There's the padlock , see . 
Well , he was a very nice , gentlemanly man indeed . 
He said to me as gentle as a babe when all was done 'Mrs . 
Fawley , I congratulate you heartily , he says . 
'For having heard your history , and that of your husband , I think you have both done the right and proper thing . 
Yes he was a very nice , gentlemanly man . 
Yes he was a very nice , gentlemanly man . 
I said I'd do anything to save a woman's honour , muttered Jude . 
And I've done it ! Well now , old deary , come along and have some breakfast . 
I want some more whisky , said Jude stolidly . 
Not now ! There's no more left . 
The tea will take the muddle out of our heads , and we shall be as fresh as larks . 
She said I ought to marry you again , and I have straightway . 
He had done a few days' work during the two or three months since the event , but his health had been indifferent , and it was now precarious . 
He was sitting in an arm chair before the fire , and coughed a good deal . 
I've got a bargain for my trouble in marrying thee over again ! Arabella was saying to him . 
Why didn't you keep your health , deceiving one like this ? You were well enough when the wedding was ! Ah , yes ! said he , laughing acridly . 
I have been thinking of my foolish feeling about the pig you and I killed during our first marriage . 
I feel now that the greatest mercy that could be vouchsafed to me would be that something should serve me as I served that animal . 
This was the sort of discourse that went on between them every day now . 
Jude did not get any better , and one day he requested Arabella , with considerable hesitation , to execute a commission for him . 
She asked him indifferently what it was . 
It is like you to insult a lawful wife by asking such a thing ! It is just in order not to insult you that I ask you to do it . 
You know I love Sue . 
I don't wish to mince the matter there stands the fact I love her . 
I could find a dozen ways of sending a letter to her without your knowledge . 
But I wish to be quite above board with you , and with her husband . 
A message through you asking her to come is at least free from any odour of intrigue . 
If she retains any of her old nature at all , she'll come . 
Come , please write , Arabella ! he pleaded . 
Repay my candour by a little generosity ! I should think NOT ! Not just once ? Oh do ! He felt that his physical weakness had taken away all his dignity . 
What do you want HER to know how you are for ? She don't want to see 'ee . 
Say another word of that sort , he whispered , and I'll kill you here and now ! I've everything to gain by it my own death not being the least part . 
So don't think there's no meaning in what I say ! What do you want me to do ? gasped Arabella . 
Promise never to speak of her . 
I take your word , he said scornfully as he loosened her . 
But what it is worth I can't say . 
You couldn't kill the pig , but you could kill me ! Ah there you have me ! No I couldn't kill you even in a passion . 
Taunt away ! He then began coughing very much , and she estimated his life with an appraiser's eye as he sank back ghastly pale . 
I'll send for her , Arabella murmured , if you'll agree to my being in the room with you all the time she's here . 
Only send for her ! In the evening he inquired if she had written . 
Yes , she said I wrote a note telling her you were ill , and asking her to come to morrow or the day after . 
I haven't posted it yet . 
He knew the times of the possible trains , and listened on each occasion for sounds of her . 
She did not come but Jude would not address Arabella again thereon . 
He hoped and expected all the next day but no Sue appeared neither was there any note of reply . 
Then Jude decided in the privacy of his mind that Arabella had never posted hers , although she had written it . 
There was something in her manner which told it . 
His physical weakness was such that he shed tears at the disappointment when she was not there to see . 
His suspicions were , in fact , well founded . 
Arabella , like some other nurses , thought that your duty towards your invalid was to pacify him by any means short of really acting upon his fancies . 
He never said another word to her about his wish or his conjecture . 
A silent , undiscerned resolve grew up in him , which gave him , if not strength , stability and calm . 
One midday when , after an absence of two hours , she came into the room , she beheld the chair empty . 
Down she flopped on the bed , and sitting , meditated . 
Now where the devil is my man gone to ! she said . 
Yet a conviction possessed Arabella that he had gone out , and it became a certainty when she had searched the house . 
If he's such a fool , let him be ! she said . 
I can do no more . 
On his face showed the determined purpose that alone sustained him , but to which has weakness afforded a sorry foundation . 
By the up hill walk he was quite blown , but he pressed on and at half past three o'clock stood by the familiar well at Marygreen . 
The rain was keeping everybody indoors Jude crossed the green to the church without observation , and found the building open . 
Here he stood , looking forth at the school , whence he could hear the usual sing song tones of the little voices that had not learnt Creation's groan . 
He waited till a small boy came from the school one evidently allowed out before hours for some reason or other . 
Jude held up his hand , and the child came . 
Please call at the schoolhouse and ask Mrs. Phillotson if she will be kind enough to come to the church for a few minutes . 
The child departed , and Jude heard him knock at the door of the dwelling . 
He himself went further into the church . 
Everything was new , except a few pieces of carving preserved from the wrecked old fabric , now fixed against the new walls . 
He stood by these they seemed akin to the perished people of that place who were his ancestors and Sue's . 
A light footstep , which might have been accounted no more than an added drip to the rainfall , sounded in the porch , and he looked round . 
Oh I didn't think it was you ! I didn't Oh , Jude ! A hysterical catch in her breath ended in a succession of them . 
He advanced , but she quickly recovered and went back . 
Don't go don't go ! he implored . 
This is my last time ! I thought it would be less intrusive than to enter your house . 
And I shall never come again . 
But why did you come , and do this wrong thing , after doing such a right thing as you have done ? What right thing ? Marrying Arabella again . 
It was in the Alfredston paper . 
She has never been other than yours , Jude in a proper sense . 
And therefore you did so well Oh so well ! in recognizing it and taking her to you again . 
Don't make me rush away from you I can't bear much ! But on this point I am decided . 
I cannot understand how you did it how you think it I cannot ! Never mind that . 
He is a kind husband to me And I I've wrestled and struggled , and fasted , and prayed . 
I have nearly brought my body into complete subjection . 
I would never come to see you again , even if I had the strength to come , which I shall not have any more . 
Sue , Sue , you are not worth a man's love ! Her bosom began to go up and down . 
I can't endure you to say that ! she burst out , and her eye resting on him a moment , she turned back impulsively . 
It hasn't been more than that at all since I came back to him ! Sue ! he said . 
You do love me still ? I do ! You know it too well ! . 
I MUSTN'T I CAN'T go on with this ! she gasped presently . 
But there , there , darling I give you back your kisses I do , I do ! . 
And now I'll HATE myself for ever for my sin ! No let me make my last appeal . 
Listen to this ! We've both remarried out of our senses . 
I was made drunk to do it . 
I was gin drunk you were creed drunk . 
Either form of intoxication takes away the nobler vision . 
Let us then shake off our mistakes , and run away together ! No again no ! . 
Why do you tempt me so far , Jude ! It is too merciless ! . 
But I've got over myself now . 
Don't follow me don't look at me . 
Leave me , for pity's sake ! She ran up the church to the east end , and Jude did as she requested . 
He did not turn his head , but took up his blanket , which she had not seen , and went straight out . 
But she knelt down again , and stopped her ears with her hands till all possible sound of him had passed away . 
He was by this time at the corner of the green , from which the path ran across the fields in which he had scared rooks as a boy . 
He turned and looked back , once , at the building which still contained Sue and then went on , knowing that his eyes would light on that scene no more . 
Here the first winter sleets and snows fall and lie , and here the spring frost lingers last unthawed . 
He came to the milestone , and , raining as it was , spread his blanket and lay down there to rest . 
Before moving on he went and felt at the back of the stone for his own carving . 
It was still there but nearly obliterated by moss . 
He passed the spot where the gibbet of his ancestor and Sue's had stood , and descended the hill . 
To get home he had to travel by a steam tram car , and two branches of railway , with much waiting at a junction . 
He did not reach Christminster till ten o'clock . 
IX ON the platform stood Arabella . 
She looked him up and down . 
You've been to see her ? she asked . 
I have , said Jude , literally tottering with cold and lassitude . 
Well , now you'd best march along home . 
The water ran out of him as he went , and he was compelled to lean against the wall to support himself while coughing . 
You've done for yourself by this , young man , said she . 
I don't know whether you know it . 
I meant to do for myself . 
What to commit suicide ? Certainly . 
Well , I'm blest ! Kill yourself for a woman . 
Listen to me , Arabella . 
You think you are the stronger and so you are , in a physical sense , now . 
You could push me over like a nine pin . 
You did not send that letter the other day , and I could not resent your conduct . 
But I am not so weak in another way as you think . 
They went along by the silent colleges , and Jude kept stopping . 
What are you looking at ? Stupid fancies . 
But I don't revere all of them as I did then . 
I don't believe in half of them . 
The theologians , the apologists , and their kin the metaphysicians , the high handed statesmen , and others , no longer interest me . 
At moments he stood still by an archway , like one watching a figure walk out then he would look at a window like one discerning a familiar face behind it . 
He seemed to hear voices , whose words he repeated as if to gather their meaning . 
They seem laughing at me ! Who ? Oh I was talking to myself ! The phantoms all about here , in the college archways , and windows . 
They used to look friendly in the old days , particularly Addison , and Gibbon , and Johnson , and Dr . 
Browne , and Bishop Ken Come along do ! Phantoms ! There's neither living nor dead hereabouts except a damn policeman ! I never saw the streets emptier . 
Fancy ! The Poet of Liberty used to walk here , and the great Dissector of Melancholy there ! I don't want to hear about 'em ! They bore me . 
It will help me home , for I feel the chilly fog from the meadows of Cardinal as if death claws were grabbing me through and through . 
As Antigone said , I am neither a dweller among men nor ghosts . 
But , Arabella , when I am dead , you'll see my spirit flitting up and down here among these ! Pooh ! You mayn't die after all . 
You are tough enough yet , old man . 
It was night at Marygreen , and the rain of the afternoon showed no sign of abatement . 
Sue was muddling helplessly in the kitchen , for she was not a good housewife , though she tried to be , and grew impatient of domestic details . 
Lord love 'ee , what do ye do that yourself for , when I've come o' purpose ! You knew I should come . 
Oh I don't know I forgot ! No , I didn't forget . 
I did it to discipline myself . 
I have scrubbed the stairs since eight o'clock . 
I MUST practise myself in my household duties . 
I've shamefully neglected them ! Why should ye ? He'll get a better school , perhaps be a parson , in time , and you'll keep two servants . 
'Tis a pity to spoil them pretty hands . 
Don't talk of my pretty hands , Mrs. Edlin . 
This pretty body of mine has been the ruin of me already ! Pshoo you've got no body to speak of ! You put me more in mind of a sperrit . 
But there seems something wrong to night , my dear . 
Husband cross ? No. He never is . 
He's gone to bed early . 
Then what is it ? I cannot tell you . 
I have done wrong to day . 
And I want to eradicate it . 
Well I will tell you this Jude has been here this afternoon , and I find I still love him oh , grossly ! I cannot tell you more . 
Ah ! said the widow . 
But I am going to make my conscience right on my duty to Richard by doing a penance the ultimate thing . 
I must ! I wouldn't since he agrees to it being otherwise , and it has gone on three months very well as it is . 
Yes he agrees to my living as I choose but I feel it is an indulgence I ought not to exact from him . 
It ought not to have been accepted by me . 
To reverse it will be terrible but I must be more just to him . 
O why was I so unheroic ! What is it you don't like in him ? asked Mrs. Edlin curiously . 
The mournful thing is , that nobody would admit it as a reason for feeling as I do so that no excuse is left me . 
Did you ever tell Jude what it was ? Never . 
I've heard strange tales o' husbands in my time , observed the widow in a lowered voice . 
They say that when the saints were upon the earth devils used to take husbands' forms o' nights , and get poor women into all sorts of trouble . 
But I don't know why that should come into my head , for it is only a tale . 
What a wind and rain it is to night ! Well don't be in a hurry to alter things , my dear . 
No woman ought to be expected to . 
I will drink my cup to the dregs ! Half an hour later when Mrs. Edlin put on her bonnet and shawl to leave , Sue seemed to be seized with vague terror . 
No no don't go , Mrs. Edlin , she implored , her eyes enlarged , and with a quick nervous look over her shoulder . 
But it is bedtime , child . 
Yes , but there's the little spare room my room that was . 
Please stay , Mrs. Edlin ! I shall want you in the morning . 
Oh well I don't mind , if you wish . 
Nothing will happen to my four old walls , whether I be there or no . 
She then fastened up the doors , and they ascended the stairs together . 
Wait here , Mrs. Edlin , said Sue . 
I'll go into my old room a moment by myself . 
She then arose , and taking her night gown from the pillow undressed and came out to Mrs. Edlin . 
A man could be heard snoring in the room opposite . 
She wished Mrs. Edlin good night , and the widow entered the room that Sue had just vacated . 
Sue unlatched the other chamber door , and , as if seized with faintness , sank down outside it . 
Getting up again she half opened the door , and said Richard . 
As the word came out of her mouth she visibly shuddered . 
The snoring had quite ceased for some time , but he did not reply . 
Sue seemed relieved , and hurried back to Mrs. Edlin's chamber . 
Are you in bed , Mrs. Edlin ? she asked . 
No , dear , said the widow , opening the door . 
I be old and slow , and it takes me a long while to un ray . 
I han't unlaced my jumps yet . 
I don't hear him ! And perhaps perhaps What , child ? Perhaps he's dead ! she gasped . 
And then I should be FREE , and I could go to Jude ! . 
Ah no I forgot HER and God ! Let's go and hearken . 
But the rain and the wind is so loud that you can hardly hear anything but between whiles . 
Sue had dragged herself back . 
Mrs. Edlin , good night again ! I am sorry I called you out . 
The widow retreated a second time . 
The strained , resigned look returned to Sue's face when she was alone . 
I must do it I must ! I must drink to the dregs ! she whispered . 
Richard ! she said again . 
Hey what ? Is that you , Susanna ? Yes . 
What do you want ? Anything the matter ? Wait a moment . 
He pulled on some articles of clothing , and came to the door . 
Yes ? When we were at Shaston I jumped out of the window rather than that you should come near me . 
I have never reversed that treatment till now when I have come to beg your pardon for it , and ask you to let me in . 
Perhaps you only think you ought to do this ? I don't wish you to come against your impulses , as I have said . 
But I beg to be admitted . 
She waited a moment , and repeated , I beg to be admitted ! I have been in error even to day . 
I have exceeded my rights . 
I did not mean to tell you , but perhaps I ought . 
I sinned against you this afternoon . 
How ? I met Jude ! I didn't know he was coming . 
And Well ? I kissed him , and let him kiss me . 
Oh the old story ! Richard , I didn't know we were going to kiss each other till we did ! How many times ? A good many . 
I am horrified to look back on it , and the least I can do after it is to come to you like this . 
Come this is pretty bad , after what I've done ! Anything else to confess ? No. She had been intending to say I called him my darling love . 
But , as a contrite woman always keeps back a little , that portion of the scene remained untold . 
She went on I am never going to see him any more . 
He spoke of some things of the past and it overcame me . 
He spoke of the children . 
But , as I have said , I am glad almost glad I mean that they are dead , Richard . 
It blots out all that life of mine ! Well about not seeing him again any more . 
Yes , yes ! Perhaps you'll swear it on the New Testament ? I will . 
He went back to the room and brought out a little brown Testament . 
Now then So help you God ! She swore . 
Very good ! Now I supplicate you , Richard , to whom I belong , and whom I wish to honour and obey , as I vowed , to let me in . 
You know what it means . 
Having you back in the house was one thing this another . 
I have thought I wish this ! That's a complaisant spirit and perhaps you are right . 
With a lover hanging about , a half marriage should be completed . 
But I repeat my reminder this third and last time . 
It is my wish ! . 
O God ! What did you say 'O God' for ? I don't know ! Yes you do ! But . 
He gloomily considered her thin and fragile form a moment longer as she crouched before him in her night clothes . 
Well , I thought it might end like this , he said presently . 
I owe you nothing , after these signs but I'll take you in at your word , and forgive you . 
He put his arm round her to lift her up . 
What's the matter ? he asked , speaking for the first time sternly . 
You shrink from me again ? just as formerly ! No , Richard I I was not thinking You wish to come in here ? Yes . 
You still bear in mind what it means ? Yes . 
It is my duty ! Placing the candlestick on the chest of drawers he led her through the doorway , and lifting her bodily , kissed her . 
A quick look of aversion passed over her face , but clenching her teeth she uttered no cry . 
How it do blow and rain ! The widow went out on the landing , and saw that Sue had disappeared . 
Ah ! Poor soul ! Weddings be funerals 'a b'lieve nowadays . 
After Christmas , however , he broke down again . 
With the money he had earned he shifted his lodgings to a yet more central part of the town . 
But Arabella saw that he was not likely to do much work for a long while , and was cross enough at the turn affairs had taken since her remarriage to him . 
Sometimes his mood was more earnest , and as he lay he often rambled on upon the defeat of his early aims . 
Every man has some little power in some one direction , he would say . 
I was never really stout enough for the stone trade , particularly the fixing . 
But I felt I could do one thing if I had the opportunity . 
I could accumulate ideas , and impart them to others . 
I wonder if the founders had such as I in their minds a fellow good for nothing else but that particular thing ? . 
I hear that soon there is going to be a better chance for such helpless students as I was . 
There are schemes afoot for making the university less exclusive , and extending its influence . 
I don't know much about it . 
And it is too late , too late for me ! Ah and for how many worthier ones before me ! How you keep a mumbling ! said Arabella . 
I should have thought you'd have got over all that craze about books by this time . 
And so you would , if you'd had any sense to begin with . 
You are as bad now as when we were first married . 
On one occasion while soliloquizing thus he called her Sue unconsciously . 
I wish you'd mind who you are talking to ! said Arabella indignantly . 
Calling a respectable married woman by the name of that She remembered herself and he did not catch the word . 
But in the course of time , when she saw how things were going , and how very little she had to fear from Sue's rivalry , she had a fit of generosity . 
I suppose you want to see your Sue ? she said . 
Well , I don't mind her coming . 
You can have her here if you like . 
I don't wish to see her again . 
Oh that's a change ! And don't tell her anything about me that I'm ill , or anything . 
She has chosen her course . 
Let her go ! One day he received a surprise . 
Mrs. Edlin came to see him , quite on her own account . 
Jude's wife , whose feelings as to where his affections were centred had reached absolute indifference by this time , went out , leaving the old woman alone with Jude . 
He impulsively asked how Sue was , and then said bluntly , remembering what Sue had told him I suppose they are still only husband and wife in name ? Mrs. Edlin hesitated . 
Well , no it's different now . 
She's begun it quite lately all of her own free will . 
When did she begin ? he asked quickly . 
The night after you came . 
But as a punishment to her poor self . 
He didn't wish it , but she insisted . 
Sue , my Sue you darling fool this is almost more than I can endure ! . 
Then bitter affliction came to us , and her intellect broke , and she veered round to darkness . 
Strange difference of sex , that time and circumstance , which enlarge the views of most men , narrow the views of women almost invariably . 
And so the resistance they met with brought reaction in her , and recklessness and ruin on me ! . 
There this , Mrs. Edlin , is how I go on to myself continually , as I lie here . 
I must be boring you awfully . 
Not at all , my dear boy . 
I could hearken to 'ee all day . 
Presently there came a knock at the door downstairs . 
As nobody answered it Mrs. Edlin herself went down . 
The visitor said blandly The doctor . 
The lanky form was that of Physician Vilbert , who had been called in by Arabella . 
How is my patient at present ? asked the physician . 
Oh bad very bad ! Poor chap , he got excited , and do blaspeam terribly , since I let out some gossip by accident the more to my blame . 
But there you must excuse a man in suffering for what he says , and I hope God will forgive him . 
I'll go up and see him . 
Mrs. Fawley at home ? She's not in at present , but she'll be here soon . 
At the door he met Arabella , Mrs. Edlin having left . 
Arabella inquired how he thought her husband was now , and seeing that the doctor looked ruffled , asked him to take something . 
I'll bring it to you here in the passage , she said . 
There's nobody but me about the house to day . 
She brought him a bottle and a glass , and he drank . 
Arabella began shaking with suppressed laughter . 
What is this , my dear ? he asked , smacking his lips . 
Oh a drop of wine and something in it . 
Putting his arm round her shoulders he kissed her there and then . 
Don't don't , she whispered , laughing good humouredly . 
She let him out of the house , and as she went back she said to herself Well ! Weak women must provide for a rainy day . 
And if my poor fellow upstairs do go off as I suppose he will soon it's well to keep chances open . 
And I can't pick and choose now as I could when I was younger . 
And one must take the old if one can't get the young . 
XI THE last pages to which the chronicler of these lives would ask the reader's attention are concerned with the scene in and out of Jude's bedroom when leafy summer came round again . 
His face was now so thin that his old friends would hardly have known him . 
When she had finished this , practised a dimple , and put on her things , she cast her eyes round upon Jude . 
He seemed to be sleeping , though his position was an elevated one , his malady preventing him lying down . 
Arabella , hatted , gloved , and ready , sat down and waited , as if expecting some one to come and take her place as nurse . 
Certain sounds from without revealed that the town was in festivity , though little of the festival , whatever it might have been , could be seen here . 
Bells began to ring , and the notes came into the room through the open window , and travelled round Jude's head in a hum . 
Still he slept , and coming to a resolution she slipped from the room , closed the door noiselessly , and descended the stairs . 
The attraction which moved Arabella to go abroad had evidently drawn away the other inmates long before . 
It was a warm , cloudless , enticing day . 
She entered under the archway of Oldgate College , where men were putting up awnings round the quadrangle for a ball in the hall that evening . 
People who had come up from the country for the day were picnicking on the grass , and Arabella walked along the gravel paths and under the aged limes . 
When the doors were closed , and the concert began , she moved on . 
The powerful notes of that concert rolled forth through the swinging yellow blinds of the open windows , over the housetops , and into the still air of the lanes . 
They reached so far as to the room in which Jude lay and it was about this time that his cough began again and awakened him . 
As soon as he could speak he murmured , his eyes still closed A little water , please . 
Nothing but the deserted room received his appeal , and he coughed to exhaustion again saying still more feebly Water some water Sue Arabella ! The room remained still as before . 
While he remained , his face changing , shouts and hurrahs came from somewhere in the direction of the river . 
Ah yes ! The Remembrance games , he murmured . 
And Sue defiled ! The hurrahs were repeated , drowning the faint organ notes . 
LET THAT DAY BE DARKNESS LET NOT GOD REGARD IT FROM ABOVE , NEITHER LET THE LIGHT SHINE UPON IT . 
LO , LET THAT NIGHT BE SOLITARY , LET NO JOYFUL VOICE COME THEREIN . 
WHY DIED I NOT FROM THE WOMB ? WHY DID I NOT GIVE UP THE GHOST WHEN I CAME OUT OF THE BELLY ? . 
FOR NOW SHOULD I HAVE LAIN STILL AND BEEN QUIET . 
THERE THE PRISONERS REST TOGETHER THEY HEAR NOT THE VOICE OF THE OPPRESSOR . 
THE SMALL AND THE GREAT ARE THERE AND THE SERVANT IS FREE FROM HIS MASTER . 
It was full of bustle , and brilliant in the sunlight with flowers and other preparations for a ball here also . 
A carpenter nodded to her , one who had formerly been a fellow workman of Jude's . 
A corridor was in course of erection from the entrance to the hall staircase , of gay red and buff bunting . 
Waggon loads of boxes containing bright plants in full bloom were being placed about , and the great staircase was covered with red cloth . 
She nodded to one workman and another , and ascended to the hall on the strength of their acquaintance , where they were putting down a new floor and decorating for the dance . 
The cathedral bell close at hand was sounding for five o'clock service . 
I should not mind having a spin there with a fellow's arm round my waist , she said to one of the men . 
But Lord , I must be getting home again there's a lot to do . 
No dancing for me ! When she reached home she was met at the door by Stagg , and one or two other of Jude's fellow stoneworkers . 
We are just going down to the river , said the former , to see the boat bumping . 
But we've called round on our way to ask how your husband is . 
He's sleeping nicely , thank you , said Arabella . 
Well now , can't you give yourself half an hour's relaxation , Mrs. Fawley , and come along with us ? 'Twould do you good . 
I should like to go , said she . 
I've never seen the boat racing , and I hear it is good fun . 
Come along ! How I WISH I could ! She looked longingly down the street . 
Wait a minute , then . 
I'll just run up and see how he is now . 
Father is with him , I believe so I can most likely come . 
They waited , and she entered . 
Downstairs the inmates were absent as before , having , in fact , gone in a body to the river where the procession of boats was to pass . 
When she reached the bedroom she found that her father had not even now come . 
Why couldn't he have been here ! she said impatiently . 
He had slipped down , and lay flat . 
A second glance caused her to start , and she went to the bed . 
His face was quite white , and gradually becoming rigid . 
She touched his fingers they were cold , though his body was still warm . 
She listened at his chest . 
The bumping of near thirty years had ceased . 
Here she is ! said one of the workmen . 
We wondered if you were coming after all . 
Come along we must be quick to get a good place . 
Well , how is he ? Sleeping well still ? Of course , we don't want to drag 'ee away if Oh yes sleeping quite sound . 
He won't wake yet , she said hurriedly . 
They went with the crowd down Cardinal Street , where they presently reached the bridge , and the gay barges burst upon their view . 
Thence they passed by a narrow slit down to the riverside path now dusty , hot , and thronged . 
Oh , I say how jolly ! I'm glad I've come , said Arabella . 
And it can't hurt my husband my being away . 
On the opposite side of the river , on the crowded barges , were gorgeous nosegays of feminine beauty , fashionably arrayed in green , pink , blue , and white . 
The blue flag of the boat club denoted the centre of interest , beneath which a band in red uniform gave out the notes she had already heard in the death chamber . 
Collegians of all sorts , in canoes with ladies , watching keenly for our boat , darted up and down . 
While she regarded the lively scene somebody touched Arabella in the ribs , and looking round she saw Vilbert . 
That philtre is operating , you know ! he said with a leer . 
Shame on 'ee to wreck a heart so ! I shan't talk of love to day . 
Why not ? It is a general holiday . 
Vilbert's arm stole round her waist , which act could be performed unobserved in the crowd . 
An arch expression overspread Arabella's face at the feel of the arm , but she kept her eyes on the river as if she did not know of the embrace . 
Well it's been awfully good , cried Arabella . 
But I think I must get back to my poor man . 
Father is there , so far as I know but I had better get back . 
What's your hurry ? Well , I must go . 
What a fidget you are , my love , said the physician , who , being pressed close against her by the throng , had no need of personal effort for contact . 
Just as well have patience there's no getting away yet ! It was nearly ten minutes before the wedged multitude moved sufficiently to let them pass through . 
As soon as she got up into the street Arabella hastened on , forbidding the physician to accompany her further that day . 
She did not go straight to her house but to the abode of a woman who performed the last necessary offices for the poorer dead where she knocked . 
My husband has just gone , poor soul , she said . 
I must call at the sexton's about the bell , too , said Arabella . 
It is just round here , isn't it ? I'll meet you at my door . 
By ten o'clock that night Jude was lying on the bedstead at his lodging covered with a sheet , and straight as an arrow . 
Through the partly opened window the joyous throb of a waltz entered from the ball room at Cardinal . 
Two days later , when the sky was equally cloudless , and the air equally still , two persons stood beside Jude's open coffin in the same little bedroom . 
On one side was Arabella , on the other the Widow Edlin . 
They were both looking at Jude's face , the worn old eyelids of Mrs. Edlin being red . 
How beautiful he is ! said she . 
He's a 'andsome corpse , said Arabella . 
The window was still open to ventilate the room , and it being about noontide the clear air was motionless and quiet without . 
From a distance came voices and an apparent noise of persons stamping . 
What's that ? murmured the old woman . 
Oh , that's the doctors in the theatre , conferring honorary degrees on the Duke of Hamptonshire and a lot more illustrious gents of that sort . 
It's Remembrance Week , you know . 
The cheers come from the young men . 
Aye young and strong lunged ! Not like our poor boy here . 
The bells struck out joyously and their reverberations travelled round the bed room . 
Arabella's eyes removed from Jude to Mrs. Edlin . 
D'ye think she will come ? she asked . 
She swore not to see him again . 
How is she looking ? Tired and miserable , poor heart . 
Years and years older than when you saw her last . 
Quite a staid , worn woman now . 
'Tis the man she can't stomach un , even now ! If Jude had been alive to see her , he would hardly have cared for her any more , perhaps . 
That's what we don't know . 
Didn't he ever ask you to send for her , since he came to see her in that strange way ? No. Quite the contrary . 
I offered to send , and he said I was not to let her know how ill he was . 
Did he forgive her ? Not as I know . 
